EVOLUTION AND ETHICS AND OTHER ESSAYS

BY THOMAS H. HUXLEY

PREFACE

THE discourse on "Evolution and Ethics," reprinted in the first half of the present volume,
was delivered before the University of Oxford, as the second of the annual lectures founded
by Mr. Romanes: whose name I may not write without deploring the untimely death, in the flower
of his age, of a friend endeared to me, as to so many others, by his kindly nature; and justly
valued by all his colleagues for his powers of investigation and his zeal for the advancement
of knowledge. I well remember, when Mr. Romanes' early work came into my hands, as one of the
secretaries of the Royal Society, how much I rejoiced in the accession to the ranks of the
little army of workers in science of a recruit so well qualified to take a high place among us.

It was at my friend's urgent request that I agreed to undertake the lecture, should I be honoured
with an official proposal to give it, though I confess not without misgivings, if only on account
of the serious fatigue and hoarseness which public speaking has for some years caused me; while
I knew that it would be my fate to follow the most accomplished and facile orator of our time,
whose indomitable youth is in no matter more manifest than in his penetrating and musical voice.
A certain saying about comparisons intruded itself somewhat importunately.

And even if I disregarded the weakness of my body in the matter of voice, and that of my mind
in the matter of vanity, there remained a third difficulty. For several reasons, my attention,
during a number of years, has been much directed to the bearing of modern scientific thought
on the problems of morals and of politics, and I did not care to be diverted from that topic.
Moreover, I thought it the most important and the worthiest which, at the present time, could
engage the attention even of an ancient and renowned University.

But it is a condition of the Romanes foundation that the lecturer shall abstain from treating
of either Religion or Politics; and it appeared to me that, more than most, perhaps, I was
bound to act, not merely up to the letter, but in the spirit, of that prohibition. Yet Ethical
Science is, on all sides, so entangled with Religion and Politics that the lecturer who essays
to touch the former without coming into contact with either of the latter, needs all the dexterity
of an egg-dancer; and may even discover that his sense of clearness and his sense of propriety
come into conflict, by no means to the advantage of the former.

I have little notion of the real magnitude of these difficulties when I set about my task;
but I am consoled for my pains and anxiety by observing that none of the multitudinous criticisms
with which I have been favoured and, often, instructed, find fault with me on the score of
having strayed out of bounds.

Among my critics there are not a few to whom I feel deeply indebted for the careful attention
which they have given to the exposition thus hampered; and further weakened, I am afraid, by
my forgetfulness of a maxim touching lectures of a popular character, which has descended to
me from that prince of lecturers, Mr. Faraday. He was once asked by a beginner, called upon
to address a highly select and cultivated audience, what he might suppose his hearers to know
already. Whereupon the past master of the art of exposition emphatically replied "Nothing!"

To my shame as a retired veteran, who has all his life profited by this great precept of lecturing
strategy, I forgot all about it just when it would have been most useful. I was fatuous enough
to imagine that a number of propositions, which I thought established, and which, in fact,
I had advanced without challenge on former occasions, needed no repetition.

I have endeavoured to repair my error by prefacing the lecture with some matter--chiefly elementary
or recapitulatory--to which I have given the title of "Prolegomena" I wish I could have hit
upon a heading of less pedantic aspect which would have served my purpose; and if it be urged
that the new building looks over large for the edifice to which it is added, I can only plead
the precedent of the ancient architects, who always made the adytum the smallest part of the
temple.

If I had attempted to reply in full to the criticisms to which I have referred, I know not
what extent of ground would have been covered by my pronaos. All I have endeavoured to do,
at present, is to remove that which seems to have proved a stumbling-block to many--namely,
the apparent paradox that ethical nature, while born of cosmic nature, is necessarily at enmity
with its parent. Unless the arguments set forth in the Prolegomena, in the simplest language
at my command, have some flaw which I am unable to discern, this seeming paradox is a truth,
as great as it is plain, the recognition of which is fundamental for the ethical philosopher.

We cannot do without our inheritance from the forefathers who were the puppets of the cosmic
process; the society which renounces it must be destroyed from without. Still less can we de
with too much of it; the society in which it dominates must be destroyed from within.

The motive of the drama of human life is the necessity, laid upon every man who comes into
the world, of discovering the mean between self-assertion and self-restraint suited to his
character and his circumstances. And the eternally tragic aspect of the drama lies in this:
that the problem set before us is one the elements of which can be but imperfectly known, and
of which even an approximately right solution rarely presents itself, until that stern critic,
aged experience, has been furnished with ample justification for venting his sarcastic humour
upon the irreparable blunders we have already made.

I have reprinted the letters on the "Darkest England" scheme, published in the "Times" of December,
1890, and January, 1891; and subsequently issued, with additions, as a pamphlet, under the
title of "Social Diseases and Worse Remedies," because, although the clever attempt to rush
the country on behalf of that scheme has been balked, Booth's standing army remains afoot,
retaining all the capacities for mischief which are inherent in its constitution. I am desirous
that this fact should be kept steadily in view; and that the moderation of the clamour of the
drums and trumpets should not lead us to forget the existence of a force, which, in bad hands,
may, at any time, be used for bad purposes.

In 1892, a Committee was "formed for the purpose of investigating the manner in which the moneys,
subscribed in response to the appeal made in the book entitled 'In Darkest England and the
Way out,' have been expended." The members of this body were gentlemen in whose competency
and equity every one must have complete confidence; and in December, 1892, they published a
report in which they declare that, "with the exception of the sums expended on the 'barracks'
at Hadleigh," the moneys in question have been "devoted only to the objects and expended in
the methods set out in that appeal, and to and in no others."

Nevertheless, their final conclusion runs as follows: "(4) That whilst the invested property,
real and personal, resulting from such Appeal is so vested and controlled by the Trust of the
Deed of January 30th, 1891, that any application of it to purposes other than those declared
in the deed by any 'General' of the Salvation Army would amount to a breach of trust, and would
subject him to the proceedings of a civil and criminal character, before mentioned in the Report,
ADEQUATE LEGAL SAFEGUARDS DO NOT AT PRESENT EXIST TO PREVENT THE MISAPPLICATION OF SUCH PROPERTY."

The passage I have italicised forms part of a document dated December 19th, 1892. It follows,
that, even after the Deed of January 30th, 1891, was executed, "adequate legal safeguards"
"to prevent the misapplication of the property" did not exist. What then was the state of things,
up to a week earlier, that is on January 22nd, 1891, when my twelfth and last letter appeared
in the "Times"? A better justification for what I have said about-the want of adequate security
for the proper administration of the funds intrusted to Mr. Booth could not be desired, unless
it be that which is to be found in the following passages of the Report (pp. 36 and 37):--

"It is possible that a 'General' may be forgetful of his duty, and sell property and appropriate
the proceeds to his own use, or to meeting the general liabilities of the Salvation Army. As
matters now stand, he, and he alone, would have control over such a sale. Against such possibilities
it appears to the Committee to be reasonable that some check should be imposed."

Once more let it be remembered that this opinion given under the hand of Sir Henry James, was
expressed by the Committee, with the Trust Deed of 1891, which has been so sedulously flaunted
before the public, in full view.

The Committee made a suggestion for the improvement of this very unsatisfactory state of things;
but the exact value set upon it by the suggestors should be carefully considered (p.37).

"The Committee are fully aware that if the views thus expressed are carried out, the safeguards
and checks created will not be sufficient for all purposes absolutely to prevent possible dealing
with the property and moneys inconsistent with the purposes to which they are intended to be
devoted."

In fact, they are content to express the very modest hope that "if the suggestion made be acted
upon, some hindrance will thereby be placed in the way of any one acting dishonestly in respect
of the disposal of the property and moneys referred to."

I do not know, and, under the circumstances, I cannot say I much care, whether the suggestions
of the Committee have, or have not, been acted upon.  Whether or not, the fact remains that
an unscrupulous "General" will have a pretty free hand, notwithstanding "some" hindrance.

Thus, the judgment of the highly authoritative, and certainly not hostile, Committee of 1892,
upon the issues with which they concerned themselves is hardly such as to inspire enthusiastic
confidence. And it is further to be borne in mind that they carefully excluded from their duties
"any examination of the principles, government, teaching, or methods of the Salvation Army
as a religious organization, or of its affairs" except so far as they related to the administration
of the moneys collected by the "Darkest England" appeal.

Consequently, the most important questions discussed in my letters were not in any way touched
by the Committee. Even if their report had been far more favourable to the "Darkest England"
scheme than it is; if it had really assured the contributors that the funds raised were fully
secured against malversation; the objections, on social and political grounds, to Mr.  Booth's
despotic organization, with its thousands of docile satellites pledged to blind obedience,
set forth in the letters, would be in no degree weakened. The "sixpennyworth of good" would
still be out-weighed by the "shillingsworth of harm"; if indeed the relative worth, or unworth,
of the latter should not be rated in pounds rather than in shillings.

What would one not give for the opinion of the financial members of the Committee about the
famous Bank; and that of the legal experts about the proposed "tribunes of the people"?

HODESLEA, EASTBOURNE,
        July, 1894.

                   CONTENTS

                       I

                                                  PAGE
EVOLUTION AND ETHICS. PROLEGOMENA [1894] . . . . . . 1

                       II

EVOLUTION AND ETHICS [1893]. . . . . . . . . . . . .46

                       III

SCIENCE AND MORALS [1886]. . . . . . . . . . . . . 117

                       IV

CAPITAL--THE MOTHER OF LABOUR [1890] . . . . . . . 147

                       V

SOCIAL DISEASES AND WORSE REMEDIES [1891]. . . . . 188

Preface. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 188 The Struggle for Existence in Human Society.
195 Letters to the Times . . . . . . . . . . . . 237 Legal Opinions . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . 312 The Articles of War of the Salvation Army. . 321

[1]

                       I.

              EVOLUTION AND ETHICS.

                  PROLEGOMENA.

                    [1894.]

                       I.

IT may be safely assumed that, two thousand years ago, before Caesar set foot in southern Britain,
the whole country-side visible from the windows of the room in which I write, was in what is
called "the state of nature." Except, it may be, by raising a few sepulchral mounds, such as
those which still, here and there, break the flowing contours of the downs, man's hands had
made no mark upon it; and the thin veil of vegetation which overspread the broad-backed heights
and the shelving sides of the coombs was unaffected by his industry. The native grasses and
weeds, the scattered patches of gorse, contended with one another for the possession of the
scanty surface soil; they fought against the droughts of summer, the frosts of winter, and
the furious gales which swept, with unbroken force, now from the [2] Atlantic, and now from
the North Sea, at all times of the year; they filled up, as they best might, the gaps made
in their ranks by all sorts of underground and overground animal ravagers. One year with another,
an average population, the floating balance of the unceasing struggle for existence among the
indigenous plants, maintained itself. It is as little to be doubted, that an essentially similar
state of nature prevailed, in this region, for many thousand years before the coming of Caesar;
and there is no assignable reason for denying that it might continue to exist through an equally
prolonged futurity, except for the intervention of man.

Reckoned by our customary standards of duration, the native vegetation, like the "everlasting
hills" which it clothes, seems a type of permanence. The little Amarella Gentians, which abound
in some places to-day, are the descendants of those that were trodden underfoot, by the prehistoric
savages who have left their flint tools, about, here and there; and they followed ancestors
which, in the climate of the glacial epoch, probably flourished better than they do now. Compared
with the long past of this humble plant, all the history of civilized men is but an episode.

Yet nothing is more certain than that, measured by the liberal scale of time-keeping of the
universe, this present state of nature, however it may seem to have gone and to go on for ever,
is [3] but a fleeting phase of her infinite variety; merely the last of the series of changes
which the earth's surface has undergone in the course of the millions of years of its existence.
Turn back a square foot of the thin turf, and the solid foundation of the land, exposed in
cliffs of chalk five hundred feet high on the adjacent shore, yields full assurance of a time
when the sea covered the site of the "everlasting hills"; and when the vegetation of what land
lay nearest, was as different from the present Flora of the Sussex downs, as that of Central
Africa now is.* No less certain is it that, between the time during which the chalk was formed
and that at which the original turf came into existence, thousands of centuries elapsed, in
the course of which, the state of nature of the ages during which the chalk was deposited,
passed into that which now is, by changes so slow that, in the coming and going of the generations
of men, had such witnessed them, the contemporary, conditions would have seemed to be unchanging
and unchangeable.

    * See "On a piece of Chalk" in the preceding volume of these
    Essays (vol.  viii. p. 1).

But it is also certain that, before the deposition of the chalk, a vastly longer period had
elapsed; throughout which it is easy to follow the traces of the same process of ceaseless
modification and of the internecine struggle for existence of living things; and that even
when we can get no further [4] back, it is not because there is any reason to think we have
reached the beginning, but because the trail of the most ancient life remains hidden, or has
become obliterated.

Thus that state of nature of the world of plants which we began by considering, is far from
possessing the attribute of permanence. Rather its very essence is impermanence. It may have
lasted twenty or thirty thousand years, it may last for twenty or thirty thousand years more,
without obvious change; but, as surely as it has followed upon a very different state, so it
will be followed by an equally different condition. That which endures is not one or another
association of living forms, but the process of which the cosmos is the product, and of which
these are among the transitory expressions. And in the living world, one of the most characteristic
features of this cosmic process is the struggle for existence, the competition of each with
all, the result of which is the selection, that is to say, the survival of those forms which,
on the whole, are best adapted, to the conditions which at any period obtain; and which are,
therefore, in that respect, and only in that respect, the fittest.* The acme reached by the
cosmic [5] process in the vegetation of the downs is seen in the turf, with its weeds and gorse.
Under the conditions, they have come out of the struggle victorious; and, by surviving, have
proved that they are the fittest to survive.

    * That every theory of evolution must be consistent not merely
    with progressive development, but with indefinite persistence
    in the same condition and with retrogressive modification, is a
    point which I have insisted upon repeatedly from the year 1862
    till now. See Collected Essays, vol. ii. pp. 461-89; vol. iii.
    p. 33; vol. viii. p. 304. In the address on "Geological
    Contemporaneity and Persistent Types" (1862), the
    paleontological proofs of this proposition were, I believe,
    first set forth.

That the state of nature, at any time, is a temporary phase of a process of incessant change,
which has been going on for innumerable ages, appears to me to be a proposition as well established
as any in modern history.

Paleontology assures us, in addition, that the ancient philosophers who, with less reason,
held the same doctrine, erred in supposing that the phases formed a cycle, exactly repeating
the past, exactly foreshadowing the future, in their rotations. On the contrary, it furnishes
us with conclusive reasons for thinking that, if every link in the ancestry of these humble
indigenous plants had been preserved and were accessible to us, the whole would present a converging
series of forms of gradually diminishing complexity, until, at some period in the history of
the earth, far more remote than any of which organic remains have yet been discovered, they
would merge in those low groups among which the Boundaries between animal and vegetable life
become effaced.*

    * "On the Border Territory between the Animal and the Vegetable
    Kingdoms," Essays, vol. viii. p. 162

[6] The word "evolution," now generally applied to the cosmic process, has had a singular history,
and is used in various senses.* Taken in its popular signification it means progressive development,
that is, gradual change from a condition of relative uniformity to one of relative complexity;
but its connotation has been widened to include the phenomena of retrogressive metamorphosis,
that is, of progress from a condition of relative complexity to one of relative uniformity.

As a natural process, of the same character as the development of a tree from its seed, or
of a fowl from its egg, evolution excludes creation and all other kinds of supernatural intervention.
As the expression of a fixed order, every stage of which is the effect of causes operating
according to definite rules, the conception of evolution no less excludes that of chance. 
It is very desirable to remember that evolution is not an explanation of the cosmic process,
but merely a generalized statement of the method and results of that process. And, further,
that, if there is proof that the cosmic process was set going by any agent, then that agent
will be, the creator of it and of all its products, although supernatural intervention may
remain strictly excluded from its further course.

So far as that limited revelation of the nature of things, which we call scientific knowledge,
has [7] yet gone, it tends, with constantly increasing emphasis, to the belief that, not merely
the world of plants, but that of animals; not merely living things, but the whole fabric of
the earth; not merely our planet, but the whole solar system; not merely our star and its satellites,
but the millions of similar bodies which bear witness to the order which pervades boundless
space, and has endured through boundless time; are all working out their predestined courses
of evolution.

    * See "Evolution in Biology," Essays, vol. ii. p. 187

With none of these have I anything to do, at present, except with that exhibited by the forms
of life which tenant the earth. All plants and animals exhibit the tendency to vary, the causes
of which have yet to be ascertained; it is the tendency of the conditions of life, at any given
time, while favouring the existence of the variations best adapted to them, to oppose that
of the rest and thus to exercise selection; and all living things tend to multiply without
limit, while the means of support are limited; the obvious cause of which is the production
of offspring more numerous than their progenitors, but with equal expectation of life in the
actuarial sense. Without the first tendency there could be no evolution.  Without the second,
there would be no good reason why one variation should disappear and another take its place;
that is to say there would be no selection. Without the [8] third, the struggle for existence,
the agent of the selective process in the state of nature, would vanish.*

    * Collected Essays, vol. ii. passim.

Granting the existence of these tendencies, all the known facts of the history of plants and
of animals may be brought into rational correlation.  And this is more than can be said for
any other hypothesis that I know of.  Such hypotheses, for example, as that of the existence
of a primitive, orderless chaos; of a passive and sluggish eternal matter moulded, with but
partial success, by archetypal ideas; of a brand-new world-stuff suddenly created and swiftly
shaped by a supernatural power; receive no encouragement, but the contrary, from our present
knowledge. That our earth may once have formed part of a nebulous cosmic magma is certainly
possible, indeed seems highly probable; but there is no reason to doubt that order reigned
there, as completely as amidst what we regard as the most finished works of nature or of man.**
The faith which is born of knowledge, finds its object in an eternal order, bringing forth
ceaseless change, through endless time, in endless space; the manifestations of the cosmic
energy alternating between phases of potentiality and phases of explication. It may be that,
as Kant suggests,*** every cosmic [9] magma predestined to evolve into a new world, has been
the no less predestined end of a vanished predecessor.

    **Ibid., vol. iv. p. 138; vol. v. pp. 71-73.
    ***Ibid., vol. viii. p. 321.

                    II.

Three or four years have elapsed since the state of nature, to which I have referred, was brought
to an end, so far as a small patch of the soil is concerned, by the intervention of man. The
patch was cut off from the rest by a wall; within the area thus protected, the native vegetation
was, as far as possible, extirpated; while a colony of strange plants was imported and set
down in its place. In short, it was made into a garden. At the present time, this artificially
treated area presents an aspect extraordinarily different from that of so much of the land
as remains in the state of nature, outside the wall. Trees, shrubs, and herbs, many of them
appertaining to the state of nature of remote parts of the globe, abound and flourish. Moreover,
considerable quantities of vegetables, fruits, and flowers are produced, of kinds which neither
now exist, nor have ever existed, except under conditions such as obtain in the garden; and
which, therefore, are as much works of the art of man as the frames and glasshouses in which
some of them are raised. That the "state of Art," thus created in the state of nature by man,
is sustained by and dependent on him, would at once become [10] apparent, if the watchful supervision
of the gardener were withdrawn, and the antagonistic influences of the general cosmic process
were no longer sedulously warded off, or counteracted. The walls and gates would decay; quadrupedal
and bipedal intruders would devour and tread down the useful and beautiful plants; birds, insects,
blight, and mildew would work their will; the seeds of the native plants, carried by winds
or other agencies, would immigrate, and in virtue of their long-earned special adaptation to
the local conditions, these despised native weeds would soon choke their choice exotic rivals.
A century or two hence, little beyond the foundations of the wall and of the houses and frames
would be left, in evidence of the victory of the cosmic powers at work in the state of nature,
over the temporary obstacles to their supremacy, set up by the art of the horticulturist.

It will be admitted that the garden is as much a work of art,* or artifice, as anything that
can be mentioned. The energy localised in certain human bodies, directed by similarly localised
intellects, has produced a collocation of other material bodies which could not be brought
about in the state of nature. The same proposition is true of all the

    * The sense of the term "Art" is becoming narrowed; "work of
    Art" to most people means a picture, a statue, or a piece of
    bijouterie; by way of compensation "artist" has included in its
    wide embrace cooks and ballet girls, no less than painters and
    sculptors,

[11] works of man's hands, from a flint implement to a cathedral or a chronometer; and it is
because it is true, that we call these things artificial, term them works of art, or artifice,
by way of distinguishing them from the products of the cosmic process, working outside man,
which we call natural, or works of nature. The distinction thus drawn between the works of
nature and those of man, is universally recognized; and it is, as I conceive, both useful and
justifiable.

                   III.

No doubt, it may be properly urged that the operation of human energy and intelligence, which
has brought into existence and maintains the garden, by what I have called "the horticultural
process," is, strictly speaking, part and parcel of the cosmic process. And no one could more
readily agree to that proposition than I. In fact, I do not know that any one has taken more
pains than I have, during the last thirty years, to insist upon the doctrine, so much reviled
in the early part of that period, that man, physical, intellectual, and moral, is as much a
part of nature, as purely a product of the cosmic process, as the humblest weed.*

    * See "Man's Place in Nature," Collected Essays, vol. vii., and
    "On the Struggle for Existence in Human Society" (1888), below.

But if, following up this admission, it is urged [12] that, such being the case, the cosmic
process cannot be in antagonism with that horticultural process which is part of itself--I
can only reply, that if the conclusion that the two are, antagonistic is logically absurd,
I am sorry for logic, because, as we have seen, the fact is so. The garden is in the same position
as every other work of man's art; it is a result of the cosmic process working through and
by human energy and intelligence; and, as is the case with every other artificial thing set
up in the state of nature, the influences of the latter, are constantly tending to break it
down and destroy it. No doubt, the Forth bridge and an ironclad in the offing, are, in ultimate
resort, products of the cosmic process; as much so as the river which flows under the one,
or the seawater on which the other floats. Nevertheless, every breeze strains the bridge a
little, every tide does something to weaken its foundations; every change of temperature alters
the adjustment of its parts, produces friction and consequent wear and tear.  From time to
time, the bridge must be repaired, just as the ironclad must go into dock; simply because nature
is always tending to reclaim that which her child, man, has borrowed from her and has arranged
in combinations which are not those favoured by the general cosmic process.

Thus, it is not only true that the cosmic energy, working through man upon a portion of [13]
the plant world, opposes the same energy as it works through the state of nature, but a similar
antagonism is everywhere manifest between the artificial and the natural. Even in the state
of nature itself, what is the struggle for existence but the antagonism of the results of the
cosmic process in the region of life, one to another?*

    * Or to put the case still more simply. When a man lays hold of
    the two ends of a piece of string and pulls them, with intent
    to break it, the right arm is certainly exerted in antagonism
    to the left arm; yet both arms derive their energy from the
    same original source.

                  IV.

Not only is the state of nature hostile to the state of art of the garden; but the principle
of the horticultural process, by which the latter is created and maintained, is antithetic
to that of the cosmic process. The characteristic feature of the latter is the intense and
unceasing competition of the struggle for existence. The characteristic of the former is the
elimination of that struggle, by the removal of the conditions which give rise to it. The tendency
of the cosmic process is to bring about the adjustment of the forms of plant life to the current
conditions; the tendency of the horticultural process is the adjustment of the conditions to
the needs of the forms of plant life which the gardener desires to raise.

The cosmic process uses unrestricted multiplication [14] as the means whereby hundreds compete
for the place and nourishment adequate for one; it employs frost and drought to cut off the
weak and unfortunate; to survive, there is need not only of strength, but of flexibility and
of good fortune.

The gardener, on the other hand, restricts multiplication; provides that each plant shall have
sufficient space and nourishment; protects from frost and drought; and, in every other way,
attempts to modify the conditions, in such a manner as to bring about the survival of those
forms which most nearly approach the standard of the useful or the beautiful, which he has
in his mind.

If the fruits and the tubers, the foliage and the flowers thus obtained, reach, or sufficiently
approach, that ideal, there is no reason why the status quo attained should not be indefinitely
prolonged. So long as the state of nature remains approximately the same, so long will the
energy and intelligence which created the garden suffice to maintain it. However, the limits
within which this mastery of man over nature can be maintained are narrow. If the conditions
of the cretaceous epoch returned, I fear the most skilful of gardeners would have to give up
the cultivation of apples and gooseberries; while, if those of the glacial period once again
obtained, open asparagus beds would be superfluous, and the training of fruit [15] trees against
the most favourable of mouth walls, a waste of time and trouble.

But it is extremely important to note that, the state of nature remaining the same, if the
produce does not satisfy the gardener, it may be made to approach his ideal more closely. Although
the struggle for existence may be at end, the possibility of progress remains. In discussions
on these topics, it is often strangely forgotten that the essential conditions of the modification,
or evolution, of living things are variation and hereditary transmission. Selection is the
means by which certain variations are favoured and their progeny preserved. But the struggle
for existence is only one of the means by which selection may be effected. The endless varieties
of cultivated flowers, fruits, roots, tubers, and bulbs are not products of selection by means
of the struggle for existence, but of direct selection, in view of an ideal of utility or beauty.
Amidst a multitude of plants, occupying the same station and subjected to the same conditions,
in the garden, varieties arise. The varieties tending in a given direction are preserved, and
the rest are destroyed. And the same process takes place among the varieties until, for example,
the wild kale becomes a cabbage, or the wild Viola tricolor, a prize pansy.

[16]

                  V.

The process of colonisation presents analogies to the formation of a garden which are highly
instructive. Suppose a shipload of English colonists sent to form a settlement, in such a country
as Tasmania was in the middle of the last century. On landing, they find themselves in the
midst of a state of nature, widely different from that left behind them in everything but the
most general physical conditions. The common plants, the common birds and quadrupeds, are as
totally distinct as the men from anything to be seen on the side of the globe from which they
come. The colonists proceed to put an end to this state of things over as large an area as
they desire to occupy.  They clear away the native vegetation, extirpate or drive out the animal
population, so far as may be necessary, and take measures to defend themselves from the re-immigration
of either. In their place, they introduce English grain and fruit trees; English dogs, sheep,
cattle, horses; and English men; in fact, they set up a new Flora and Fauna and a new variety
of mankind, within the old state of nature. Their farms and pastures represent a garden on
a great scale, and themselves the gardeners who have to keep it up, in watchful antagonism
to the old regime. Considered as a whole, the colony is a composite unit introduced into the
old state of nature; and, [17] thenceforward, a competitor in the struggle for existence, to
conquer or be vanquished.

Under the conditions supposed, there is no doubt of the result, if the work of the colonists
be carried out energetically and with intelligent combination of all their forces. On the other
hand, if they are slothful, stupid, and careless; or if they waste their energies in contests
with one another, the chances are that the old state of nature will have the best of it. The
native savage will destroy the immigrant civilized man; of the English animals and plants some
will be extirpated by their indigenous rivals, others will pass into the feral state and themselves
become components of the state of nature. In a few decades, all other traces of the settlement
will have vanished.

                   VI.

Let us now imagine that some administrative authority, as far superior in power and intelligence
to men, as men are to their cattle, is set over the colony, charged to deal with its human
elements in such a manner as to assure the victory of the settlement over the antagonistic
influences of the state of nature in which it is set down. He would proceed in the same fashion
as that in which the gardener dealt with his garden. In the first place, he would, as far as
possible, put a [18] stop to the influence of external competition by thoroughly extirpating
and excluding the native rivals, whether men, beasts, or plants. And our administrator would
select his human agents, with a view to his ideal of a successful colony, just as the gardener
selects his plants with a view to his ideal of useful or beautiful products.

In the second place, in order that no struggle for the means of existence between these human
agents should weaken the efficiency of the corporate whole in the battle with the state of
nature, he would make arrangements by which each would be provided with those means; and would
be relieved from the fear of being deprived of them by his stronger or more cunning fellows.
Laws, sanctioned by the combined force of the colony, would restrain the self-assertion of
each man within the limits required for the maintenance of peace. In other words, the cosmic
struggle for existence, as between man and man, would be rigorously suppressed; and selection,
by its means, would be as completely excluded as it is from the garden.

At the same time, the obstacles to the full development of the capacities of the colonists
by other conditions of the state of nature than those already mentioned, would be removed by
the creation of artificial conditions of existence of a more favourable character: Protection
against extremes of heat and cold would [19] be afforded by houses and clothing; drainage and
irrigation works would antagonise the effects of excessive rain and excessive drought; roads,
bridges, canals, carriages, and ships would overcome the natural obstacles to locomotion and
transport; mechanical engines would supplement the natural strength of men and of their draught
animals; hygienic precautions would check, or remove, the natural causes of disease. With every
step of this progress in civilization, the colonists would become more and more independent
of the state of nature; more and more, their lives would be conditioned by a state of art.
In order to attain his ends, the administrator would have to avail himself of the courage,
industry, and co-operative intelligence of the settlers; and it is plain that the interest
of the community would be best served by increasing the proportion of persons who possess such
qualities, and diminishing that of persons devoid of them. In other words, by selection directed
towards an ideal.

Thus the administrator might look to the establishment of an earthly paradise, a true garden
of Eden, in which all things should work together towards the well-being of the gardeners:
within which the cosmic process, the coarse struggle for existence of the state of nature,
should be abolished; in which that state should be replaced by a state of art; [20] where every
plant and every lower animal should be adapted to human wants, and would perish if human supervision
and protection were withdrawn; where men themselves should have been selected, with a view
to their efficiency as organs for the performance of the functions of a perfected society.
And this ideal polity would have been brought about, not by gradually adjusting the men to
the conditions around them, but by creating artificial conditions for them; not by allowing
the free play of the struggle for existence, but by excluding that struggle; and by substituting
selection directed towards the administrator's ideal for the selection it exercises.

                VII.

But the Eden would have its serpent, and a very subtle beast too. Man shares with the rest
of the living world the mighty instinct of reproduction and its consequence, the tendency to
multiply with great rapidity. The better the measures of the administrator achieved their object,
the more completely the destructive agencies of the state of nature were defeated, the less
would that multiplication be checked.

On the other hand, within the colony, the enforcement of peace, which deprives every man of
the power to take away the means of existence from another, simply because he is the stronger,
[21] would have put an end to the struggle for existence between the colonists, and the competition
for the commodities of existence, which would alone remain, is no check upon population.

Thus, as soon as the colonists began to multiply, the administrator would have to face the
tendency to the reintroduction of the cosmic struggle into his artificial fabric, in consequence
of the competition, not merely for the commodities, but for the means of existence. When the
colony reached the limit of possible expansion, the surplus population must be disposed of
somehow; or the fierce struggle for existence must recommence and destroy that peace, which
is the fundamental condition of the maintenance of the state of art against the state of nature.

Supposing the administrator to be guided by purely scientific considerations, he would, like
the gardener, meet this most serious difficulty by systematic extirpation, or exclusion, of
the superfluous. The hopelessly diseased, the infirm aged, the weak or deformed in body or
in mind, the excess of infants born, would be put away, as the gardener pulls up defective
and superfluous plants, or the breeder destroys undesirable cattle. Only the strong and the
healthy, carefully matched, with a view to the progeny best adapted to the purposes of the
administrator, would be permitted to perpetuate their kind.

[22]

                VIII.

Of the more thoroughgoing of the multitudinous attempts to apply the principles of cosmic evolution,
or what are supposed to be such, to social and political problems, which have appeared of late
years, a considerable proportion appear to me to be based upon the notion that human society
is competent to furnish, from its own resources, an administrator of the kind I have imagined.
The pigeons, in short, are to be their own Sir John Sebright.* A despotic government, whether
individual or collective, is to be endowed with the preternatural intelligence, and with what,
I am afraid, many will consider the preternatural ruthlessness, required for the purpose of
carrying out the principle of improvement by selection, with the somewhat drastic thoroughness
upon which the success of the method depends.  Experience certainly does not justify us in
limiting the ruthlessness of individual "saviours of society"; and, on the well-known grounds
of the aphorism which denies both body and soul to corporations, it seems probable (indeed
the belief is not without support in history) that a collective despotism, a mob got to believe
in its own divine right by demagogic missionaries, would be capable of more thorough [23] work
in this direction than any single tyrant, puffed up with the same illusion, has ever achieved.
But intelligence is another affair. The fact that "saviours of society" take to that trade
is evidence enough that they have none to spare. And such as they possess is generally sold
to the capitalists of physical force on whose resources they depend. However, I doubt whether
even the keenest judge of character, if he had before him a hundred boys and girls under fourteen,
could pick out, with the least chance of success, those who should be kept, as certain to be
serviceable members of the polity, and those who should be chloroformed, as equally sure to
be stupid, idle, or vicious. The "points" of a good or of a bad citizen are really far harder
to discern than those of a puppy or a short-horn calf; many do not show themselves before the
practical difficulties of life stimulate manhood to full exertion. And by that time the mischief
is done. The evil stock, if it be one, has had time to multiply, and selection is nullified.

    * Not that the conception of such a society is necessarily based
    upon the idea of evolution. The Platonic state testifies to the
    contrary.

                           IX.

I have other reasons for fearing that this logical ideal of evolutionary regimentation--this
pigeon-fanciers' polity--is unattainable. In the absence of any such a severely scientific
administrator as we have been dreaming of, human society [24] is kept together by bonds of
such a singular character, that the attempt to perfect society after his fashion would run
serious risk of loosening them. Social organization is not peculiar to men. Other societies,
such as those constituted by bees and ants, have also arisen out of the advantage of co-operation
in the struggle for existence; and their resemblances to, and their differences from, human
society are alike instructive. The society formed by the hive bee fulfils the ideal of the
communistic aphorism "to each according to his needs, from each according to his capacity."
Within it, the struggle for existence is strictly limited.  Queen, drones, and workers have
each their allotted sufficiency of food; each performs the function assigned to it in the economy
of the hive, and all contribute to the success of the whole cooperative society in its competition
with rival collectors of nectar and pollen and with other enemies, in the state of nature without.
In the same sense as the garden, or the colony, is a work of human art, the bee polity is a
work of apiarian art, brought about by the cosmic process, working through the organization
of the hymenopterous type.

Now this society is the direct product of an organic necessity, impelling every member of it
to a course of action which tends to the good of the whole. Each bee has its duty and none
[25] has any rights. Whether bees are susceptible of feeling and capable of thought is a question
which cannot be dogmatically answered. As a pious opinion, I am disposed to deny them more
than the merest rudiments of consciousness.* But it is curious to reflect that a thoughtful
drone (workers and queens would have no leisure for speculation) with a turn for ethical philosophy,
must needs profess himself an intuitive moralist of the purest water. He would point out, with
perfect justice, that the devotion of the workers to a life of ceaseless toil for a mere subsistence
wage, cannot be accounted for either by enlightened selfishness, or by any other sort of utilitarian
motives; since these bees begin to work, without experience or reflection, as they emerge from
the cell in which they are hatched. Plainly, an eternal and immutable principle, innate in
each bee, can alone account for the phenomena. On the other hand, the biologist, who traces
out all the extant stages of gradation between solitary and hive bees, as clearly sees in the
latter, simply the perfection of an automatic mechanism, hammered out by the blows of the struggle
for existence upon the progeny of the former, during long ages of constant variation.

    * Collected Essays, vol. i., "Animal Automatism"; vol. v.,
    "Prologue," pp. 45 et seq.

[26]

                 X.

I see no reason to doubt that, at its origin, human society was as much a product of organic
necessity as that of the bees.* The human family, to begin with, rested upon exactly the same
conditions as those which gave rise to similar associations among animals lower in the scale.
Further, it is easy to see that every increase in the duration of the family ties, with the
resulting co-operation of a larger and larger number of descendants for protection and defence,
would give the families in which such modification took place a distinct advantage over the
others. And, as in the hive, the progressive limitation of the struggle for existence between
the members of the family would involve increasing efficiency as regards outside competition.

But there is this vast and fundamental difference between bee society and human society. In
the former, the members of the society are each organically predestined to the performance
of one particular class of functions only. If they were endowed with desires, each could desire
to perform none but those offices for which its organization specially fits it; and which,
in view of the good of the whole, it is proper it should do. So long as a new queen does not
make her appearance, rivalries, and competition are absent from the bee polity.

    * Collected Essays, vol v., Prologue, pp. 50-54,

[27] Among mankind, on the contrary, there is no such predestination to a sharply defined place
in the social organism. However much men may differ in the quality of their intellects, the
intensity of their passions, and the delicacy of their sensations, it cannot be said that one
is fitted by his organization to be an agricultural labourer and nothing else, and another
to be a landowner and nothing else. Moreover, with all their enormous differences in natural
endowment, men agree in one thing, and that is their innate desire to enjoy the pleasures and
to escape the pains of life; and, in short, to do nothing but that which it pleases them to
do, without the least reference to the welfare of the society into which they are born. That
is their inheritance (the reality at the bottom of the doctrine of original sin) from the long
series of ancestors, human and semi-human and brutal, in whom the strength of this innate tendency
to self-assertion was the condition of victory in the struggle for existence. That is the reason
of the aviditas vitae*--the insatiable hunger for enjoyment--of all mankind, which is one of
the essential conditions of success in the war with the state of nature outside; and yet the
sure agent of the destruction of society if allowed free play within.

    * See below. Romanes' Lecture, note 7.

The check upon this free play of self-assertion, or natural liberty, which is the necessary
condition for the origin of human society, is the product [28] of organic necessities of a
different kind from those upon which the constitution of the hive depends. One of these is
the mutual affection of parent and offspring, intensified by the long infancy of the human
species.  But the most important is the tendency, so strongly developed in man, to reproduce
in himself actions and feelings similar to, or correlated with, those of other men. Man is
the most consummate of all mimics in the animal world; none but himself can draw or model;
none comes near him in the scope, variety, and exactness of vocal imitation; none is such a
master of gesture; while he seems to be impelled thus to imitate for the pure pleasure of it.
And there is no such another emotional chameleon. By a purely reflex operation of the mind,
we take the hue of passion of those who are about us, or, it may be, the complementary colour.
It is not by any conscious "putting one's self in the place" of a joyful or a suffering person
that the state of mind we call sympathy usually arises; * indeed, it is often contrary to one's
sense of [29] right, and in spite of one's will, that "fellow-feeling makes us wondrous kind,"
or the reverse. However complete may be the indifference to public opinion, in a cool, intellectual
view, of the traditional sage, it has not yet been my fortune to meet with any actual sage
who took its hostile manifestations with entire equanimity. Indeed, I doubt if the philosopher
lives, or ever has lived who could know himself to be heartily despised by, a street boy without
some irritation. And, though one cannot justify Haman for wishing to hang Mordecai on such
a very high gibbet, yet, really, the consciousness of the Vizier of Ahasuerus, as he went in
and out of the gate, that this obscure Jew had no respect for him, must have been very annoying.**

    * Adam Smith makes the pithy observation that the man who
    sympathises with a woman in childbed, cannot be said to put
    himself in her place. ("The Theory of the Moral Sentiments,"
    Part vii. sec. iii. chap. i.) Perhaps there is more humour than
    force in the example; and, in spite of this and other
    observations of the same tenor, I think that the one defect of
    the remarkable work in which it occurs is that it lays too much
    stress on conscious substitution, too little on purely reflex
    sympathy.

    ** Esther v. 9-13. ". . . but when Haman saw Mordecai in the
    king's gate, that he stood not up, nor moved for him, he was
    full of indignation against Mordecai. . . . And Haman told them
    of the glory of his riches . . . and all the things wherein the
    king had promoted him . . .
    What a shrewd exposure of human weakness it is!

It is needful only to look around us, to see that the greatest restrainer of the anti-social
tendencies of men is fear, not of the law, but of the opinion of their fellows. The conventions
of honour bind men who break legal, moral, and religious bonds; and, while people endure the
extremity of physical pain rather than part with life, shame drives the weakest to suicide.

Every forward step of social progress brings [30] men into closer relations with their fellows,
and increases the importance of the pleasures and pains derived from sympathy. We judge the
acts of others by our own sympathies, and we judge our own acts by the sympathies of others,
every day and all day long, from childhood upwards, until associations, as indissoluble as
those of language, are formed between certain acts and the feelings of approbation or disapprobation.
It becomes impossible to imagine some acts without disapprobation, or others without approbation
of the actor, whether he be one's self, or any one else. We come to think in the acquired dialect
of morals. An artificial personality, the "man within," as Adam Smith* calls conscience, is
built up beside the natural personality. He is the watchman of society, charged to restrain
the anti-social tendencies of the natural man within the limits required by social welfare.

    * "Theory of the Moral Sentiments," Part iii. chap. 3. On the
    Influence and Authority of Conscience.

                   XI.

I have termed this evolution of the feelings out of which the primitive bonds of human society
are so largely forged, into the organized and personified sympathy we call conscience, the
ethical process.* So far as it tends to

    * Worked out, in its essential features, chiefly by Hartley and
    Adam Smith, long before the modern doctrine of evolution was
    thought of. See Note below, p. 45.

[31] make any human society more efficient in the struggle for existence with the state of
nature, or with other societies, it works in harmonious contrast with the cosmic process. But
it is none the less true that, since law and morals are restraints upon the struggle for existence
between men in society, the ethical process is in opposition to the principle of the cosmic
process, and tends to the suppression of the qualities best fitted for success in that struggle.*

    * See the essay "On the Struggle for Existence in Human Society"
    below; and Collected Essays, vol. i. p. 276, for Kant's
    recognition of these facts.

It is further to be observed that, just as the self-assertion, necessary to the maintenance
of society against the state of nature, will destroy that society if it is allowed free operation
within; so the self-restraint, the essence of the ethical process, which is no less an essential
condition of the existence of every polity, may, by excess, become ruinous to it.

Moralists of all ages and of all faiths, attending only to the relations of men towards one
another in an ideal society, have agreed upon the "golden rule," "Do as you would be done by."
In other words, let sympathy be your guide; put yourself in the place of the man towards whom
your action is directed; and do to him what you would like to have done to yourself under the
circumstances. However much one may admire the generosity of such a rule of [32] conduct; however
confident one may be that average men may be thoroughly depended upon not to carry it out to
its full logical consequences; it is nevertheless desirable to recognise the fact that these
consequences are incompatible with the existence of a civil state, under any circumstances
of this world which have obtained, or, so far as one can see, are, likely to come to pass.

For I imagine there can be no doubt that the great desire of every wrongdoer is to escape from
the painful consequences of his actions. If I put myself in the place of the man who has robbed
me, I find that I am possessed by an exceeding desire not to be fined or imprisoned; if in
that of the man who has smitten me on one cheek, I contemplate with satisfaction the absence
of any worse result than the turning of the other cheek for like treatment.  Strictly observed,
the "golden rule" involves the negation of law by the refusal to put it in motion against law-breakers;
and, as regards the external relations of a polity, it is the refusal to continue the struggle
for existence. It can be obeyed, even partially, only under the protection of a society which
repudiates it. Without such shelter, the followers of the "golden rule" may indulge in hopes
of heaven, but they must reckon with the certainty that other people will be masters of the earth.

What would become of the garden if the [33] gardener treated all the weeds and slugs, and birds
and trespassers as he would like to be treated, if he were in their place?

                 XII.

Under the preceding heads, I have endeavoured to represent in broad, but I hope faithful, outlines
the essential features of the state of nature and of that cosmic process of which it is the
outcome, so far as was needful for my argument; I have contrasted with the state of nature
the state of art, produced by human intelligence and energy, as it is exemplified by a garden;
and I have shown that the state of art, here and elsewhere, can be maintained only by the constant
counteraction of the hostile influences of the state of nature. Further, I have pointed out
that the "horticultural process," which thus sets itself against the "cosmic process" is opposed
to the latter in principle, in so far as it tends to arrest the struggle for existence, by
restraining the multiplication which is one of the chief causes of that struggle, and by creating
artificial conditions of life, better adapted to the cultivated plants than are the conditions
of the state of nature. And I have dwelt upon the fact that, though the progressive modification,
which is the consequence of the struggle for existence in the state of nature, is at an end,
such modification may still be effected [34] by that selection, in view of an ideal of usefulness,
or of pleasantness, to man, of which the state of nature knows nothing.

I have proceeded to show that a colony, set down in a country in the state of nature, presents
close analogies with a garden; and I have indicated the course of action which an administrator,
able and willing to carry out horticultural principles, would adopt, in order to secure the
success of such a newly formed polity, supposing it to be capable of indefinite expansion.
In the contrary case, I have shown that difficulties must arise; that the unlimited increase
of the population over a limited area must, sooner or later, reintroduce into the colony that
struggle for the means of existence between the colonists, which it was the primary object
of the administrator to exclude, insomuch as it is fatal to the mutual peace which is the prime
condition of the union of men in society.

I have briefly described the nature of the only radical cure, known to me, for the disease
which would thus threaten the existence of the colony; and, however regretfully, I have been
obliged to admit that this rigorously scientific method of applying the principles of evolution
to human society hardly comes within the region of practical politics; not for want of will
on the part of a great many people; but because, for one reason, there is no hope that mere
human beings will ever possess enough intelligence to select the fittest. And I [35] have adduced
other grounds for arriving at the same conclusion.

I have pointed out that human society took its rise in the organic necessities expressed by
imitation and by the sympathetic emotions; and that, in the struggle for existence with the
state of nature and with other societies, as part of it, those in which men were thus led to
close co-operation bad a great advantage.* But, since each man retained more or less of the
faculties common to all the rest, and especially a full share of the desire for unlimited self-gratification,
the struggle for existence within society could only be gradually eliminated. So long as any
of it remained, society continued to be an imperfect instrument of the struggle for existence
and, consequently, was improvable by the selective influence of that struggle. Other things
being alike, the tribe of savages in which order was best maintained; in which there was most
security within the tribe and the most loyal mutual support outside it, would be the survivors.

    * Collected Essays, vol. v., Prologue, p. 52.

I have termed this gradual strengthening of the social bond, which, though it arrest the struggle
for existence inside society, up to a certain point improves the chances of society, as a corporate
whole, in the cosmic struggle--the ethical process. I have endeavoured to show that, when the
ethical process has advanced so far as to secure [36] every member of the society in the possession
of the means of existence, the struggle for existence, as between man and man, within that
society is, ipso facto, at an end. And, as it is undeniable that the most highly civilized
societies have substantially reached this position, it follows that, so far as they are concerned,
the struggle for existence can play no important part within them.* In other words, the kind
of evolution which is brought about in the state of nature cannot take place.

    * Whether the struggle for existence with the state of nature
    and with other societies, so far as they stand in the relation
    of the state of nature with it, exerts a selective influence
    upon modern society, and in what direction, are questions not
    easy to answer. The problem of the effect of military and
    industrial warfare upon those who wage it is very complicated.

I have further shown cause for the belief that direct selection, after the fashion of the horticulturist
and the breeder, neither has played, nor can play, any important part in the evolution of society;
apart from other reasons, because I do not see how such selection could be practised without
a serious weakening, it may be the destruction, of the bonds which hold society together. It
strikes me that men who are accustomed to contemplate the active or passive extirpation of
the weak, the unfortunate, and the superfluous; who justify that conduct on the ground that
it has the sanction of the cosmic process, and is the only way of ensuring the progress of
the race; who, if [37] they are consistent, must rank medicine among the black arts and count
the physician a mischievous preserver of the unfit; on whose matrimonial undertakings the principles
of the stud have the chief influence; whose whole lives, therefore, are an education in the
noble art of suppressing natural affection and sympathy, are not likely to have any large stock
of these commodities left. But, without them, there is no conscience, nor any restraint on
the conduct of men, except the calculation of self-interest, the balancing of certain present
gratifications against doubtful future pains; and experience tells us how much that is worth.
Every day, we see firm believers in the hell of the theologians commit acts by which, as they
believe when cool, they risk eternal punishment; while they hold back from those which am opposed
to the sympathies of their associates.

                XIII.

That progressive modification of civilization which passes by the name of the "evolution of
society," is, in fact, a process of an essentially different character, both from that which
brings about the evolution of species, in the state of nature, and from that which gives rise
to the evolution of varieties, in the state of art.

There can be no doubt that vast changes have taken place in English civilization since the
reign [38] of the Tudors. But I am not aware of a particle of evidence in favour of the conclusion
that this evolutionary process, has been accompanied by any modification of the physical, or
the mental, characters of the men who have been the subjects of it. I have not met with any
grounds for suspecting that the average Englishmen of to-day are sensibly different from those
that Shakspere knew and drew. We look into his magic mirror of the Elizabethan age, and behold,
nowise darkly, the presentment of ourselves.

During these three centuries, from the reign of Elizabeth to that of Victoria, the struggle
for existence between man and man has been so largely restrained among the great mass of the
population (except for one or two short intervals of civil war), that it can have had little,
or no, selective operation. As to anything comparable to direct selection, it has been practised
on so small a scale that it may also be neglected. The criminal law, in so far as by putting
to death or by subjecting to long periods of imprisonment, those who infringe its provisions,
prevents the propagation of hereditary criminal tendencies; and the poor-law, in so far as
it separates married couples, whose destitution arises from hereditary defects of character,
are doubtless selective agents operating in favour of the non-criminal and the more effective
members of society. But the proportion of the population which they influence [39] is very
small; and, generally, the hereditary criminal and the hereditary pauper have propagated their
kind before the law affects them. In a large proportion of cases, crime and pauperism have
nothing to do with heredity; but are the consequence, partly, of circumstances and, partly,
of the possession of qualities, which, under different conditions of life, might have excited
esteem and even admiration.  It was a shrewd man of the world who, in discussing sewage problems,
remarked that dirt is riches in the wrong place; and that sound aphorism has moral applications.
The benevolence and open-handed generosity which adorn a rich man, may make a pauper of a poor
one; the energy and courage to which the successful soldier owes his rise, the cool and daring
subtlety to which the great financier owes his fortune, may very easily, under unfavourable
conditions, lead their possessors to the gallows, or to the hulks. Moreover, it is fairly probable
that the children of a "failure" will receive from their other parent just that little modification
of character which makes all the difference. I sometimes wonder whether people, who talk so
freely about extirpating the unfit, ever dispassionately consider their own history. Surely,
one must be very "fit," indeed, not to know of an occasion, or perhaps two, in one's life,
when it would have been only too easy to qualify for a place among the "unfit."

[40] In my belief the innate qualities, physical, intellectual, and moral, of our nation have
remained substantially the same for the last four or five centuries. If the struggle for existence
has affected us to any serious extent (and I doubt it) it has been, indirectly, through our
military and industrial wars with other nations.

                  XIV.

What is often called the struggle for existence in society (I plead guilty to having used the
term too loosely myself), is a contest, not for the means of existence, but for the means of
enjoyment. Those who occupy the first places in this practical competitive examination are
the rich and the influential; those who fail, more or less, occupy the lower places, down to
the squalid obscurity of the pauper and the criminal. Upon the most liberal estimate, I suppose
the former group will not amount to two per cent. of the population. I doubt if the latter
exceeds another two per cent.; but let it be supposed, for the sake of argument, that it is
as great as five per cent.*

    * Those who read the last Essay in this volume will not accuse
    me of wishing to attenuate the evil of the existence of this
    group, whether great or small.

As it is only in the latter group that any thing comparable to the struggle for existence in
the state of nature can take place; as it is [41] only among this twentieth of the whole people
that numerous men, women, and children die of rapid or slow starvation, or of the diseases
incidental to permanently bad conditions of life; and as there is nothing to prevent their
multiplication before they are killed off, while, in spite of greater infant mortality, they
increase faster than the rich; it seems clear that the struggle for existence in this class
can have no appreciable selective influence upon the other 95 per cent. of the population.

What sort of a sheep breeder would he be who should content himself with picking out the worst
fifty out of a thousand, leaving them on a barren common till the weakest starved, and then
letting the survivors go back to mix with the rest? And the parallel is too favourable; since
in a large number of cases, the actual poor and the convicted criminals are neither the weakest
nor the worst.

In the struggle for the means of enjoyment, the qualities which ensure success are energy,
industry, intellectual capacity, tenacity of purpose, and, at least, as much sympathy as is
necessary to make a man understand the feelings of his fellows. Were there none of those artificial
arrangements by which fools and knaves are kept at the top of society instead of sinking to
their natural place at the bottom,* the struggle for the means [42] of enjoyment would ensure
a constant circulation of the human units of the social compound, from the bottom to the top
and from the top to the bottom.  The survivors of the contest, those who continued to form
the great bulk of the polity, would not be those "fittest" who got to the very top, but the
great body of the moderately "fit," whose numbers and superior propagative power, enable them
always to swamp the exceptionally endowed minority.

    * I have elsewhere lamented the absence from society of a
    machinery for facilitating the descent of incapacity.
    "Administrative Nihilism." Collected Essays, vol. i. p. 54.

I think it must be obvious to every one, that, whether we consider the internal or the external
interests of society, it is desirable they should be in the hands of those who are endowed
with the largest share of energy, of industry, of intellectual capacity, of tenacity of purpose,
while they are not devoid of sympathetic humanity; and, in so far as the struggle for the means
of enjoyment tends to place such men in possession of wealth and influence, it is a process
which tends to the good of society. But the process, as we have seen, has no real resemblance
to that which adapts living beings to current conditions in the state of nature; nor any to
the artificial selection of the horticulturist.

[43] To return, once more, to the parallel of horticulture. In the modern world, the gardening
of men by themselves is practically restricted to the performance, not of selection, but of
that other function of the gardener, the creation of conditions more favourable than those
of the state of nature; to the end of facilitating the free expansion of the innate faculties
of the citizen, so far as it is consistent with the general good.  And the business of the
moral and political philosopher appears to me to be the ascertainment, by the same method of
observation, experiment, and ratiocination, as is practised in other kinds of scientific work,
of the course of conduct which will best conduce to that end.

But, supposing this course of conduct to be scientifically determined and carefully followed
out, it cannot put an end to the struggle for existence in the state of nature; and it will
not so much as tend, in any way, to the adaptation of man to that state. Even should the whole
human race be absorbed in one vast polity, within which "absolute political justice" reigns,
the struggle for existence with the state of nature outside it, and the tendency to the return
to the struggle within, in consequence of over-multiplication, will remain; and, unless men's
inheritance from the ancestors who fought a good fight in the state of [44] nature, their dose
of original sin, is rooted out by some method at present unrevealed, at any rate to disbelievers
in supernaturalism, every child born into the world will still bring with him the instinct
of unlimited self-assertion. He will have to learn the lesson of self-restraint and renunciation.
But the practice of self-restraint and renunciation is not happiness, though it may be something
much better.

That man, as a "political animal," is susceptible of a vast amount of improvement, by education,
by instruction, and by the application of his intelligence to the adaptation of the conditions
of life to his higher needs, I entertain not the slightest doubt. But so long as he remains
liable to error, intellectual or moral; so long as he is compelled to be perpetually on guard
against the cosmic forces, whose ends are not his ends, without and within himself; so long
as he is haunted by inexpugnable memories and hopeless aspirations; so long as the recognition
of his intellectual limitations forces him to acknowledge his incapacity to penetrate the mystery
of existence; the prospect of attaining untroubled happiness, or of a state which can, even
remotely, deserve the title of perfection, appears to me to be as misleading an illusion as
ever was dangled before the eyes of poor humanity. And there have been many of them.

That which lies before the human race is a [45] constant struggle to maintain and improve,
in opposition to the State of Nature, the State of Art of an organized polity; in which, and
by which, man may develop a worthy civilization, capable of maintaining and constantly improving
itself, until the evolution of our globe shall have entered so far upon its downward course
that the cosmic process resumes its sway; and, once more, the State of Nature prevails over
the surface of our planet.

     Note: (See p. 30).--It seems the fashion nowadays to ignore
Hartley; though, a century and a half ago, he not only laid the
foundations but built up much of the superstructure of a true theory
of the Evolution of the intellectual and moral faculties. He speaks of
what I have termed the ethical process as "our Progress from
Self-interest to Self-annihilation." Observations on Man (1749), vol.
ii p. 281.

[46]

                         II.

                  EVOLUTION AND ETHICS.

             [The Romanes Lecture, 1893.]

Soleo enim et in aliena castra transire, non tanquam transfuga sed tanquam explorator. (L.
ANNAEI SENECAE EPIST. II. 4.)

THERE is a delightful child's story, known by the title of "Jack and the Bean-stalk," with
which my contemporaries who are present will be familiar.  But so many of our grave and reverend
Juniors have been brought up on severer intellectual diet, and, perhaps, have become acquainted
with fairyland only through primers of comparative mythology, that it may be needful to give
an outline of the tale. It is a legend of a bean-plant, which grows and grows until it reaches
the high heavens and there spreads out into a vast canopy of foliage. The hero, being moved
to climb the stalk, discovers that the leafy expanse supports a world composed of the same
elements as that below but yet strangely new; and his adventures there, on which I may not
dwell, must [47] have completely changed his views of the nature of things; though the story,
not having been composed by, or for, philosophers, has nothing to say about views.

My present enterprise has a certain analogy to that of the daring adventurer. I beg you to
accompany me in an attempt to reach a world which, to many, is probably strange, by the help
of a bean. It is, as you know, a simple, inert-looking thing. Yet, if planted under proper
conditions, of which sufficient warmth is one of the most important, it manifests active powers
of a very remarkable kind. A small green seedling emerges, rises to the surface of the soil,
rapidly increases in size and, at the same time, undergoes a series of metamorphoses which
do not excite our wonder as much as those which meet us in legendary history, merely because
they are to be seen every day and all day long.

By insensible steps, the plant builds itself up into a large and various fabric of root, stem,
leaves, flowers, and fruit, every one moulded within and without in accordance with an extremely
complex but, at the same time, minutely defined pattern. In each of these complicated structures,
as in their smallest constituents, there is an immanent energy which, in harmony with that
resident in all the others, incessantly works towards the maintenance ,of the whole and the
efficient performance of the part which it has to play in the economy of nature.

[48] But no sooner has the edifice, reared with such exact elaboration, attained completeness,
than it begins to crumble. By degrees, the plant withers and disappears from view, leaving
behind more or fewer apparently inert and simple bodies, just like the bean from which it sprang;
and, like it, endowed with the potentiality of giving rise to a similar cycle of manifestations.
Neither the poetic nor the scientific imagination is put to much strain in the search after
analogies with this process of going forth and, as it were, returning to the starting-point.
It may be likened to the ascent and descent of a slung stone, or the course of an arrow along
its trajectory. Or we may say that the living energy takes first an upward and then a downward
road. Or it may seem preferable to compare the expansion of the germ into the full-grown plant,
to the unfolding of a fan, or to the rolling forth and widening of a stream; and thus to arrive
at the conception of "development," or "evolution." Here, as elsewhere, names are "noise and
smoke"; the important point is to have a clear and adequate conception of the fact signified
by a name. And, in this case, the fact is the Sisyphaean process, in the course of which, the
living and growing plant passes from the relative simplicity and latent potentiality of the
seed to the full epiphany of a highly differentiated type, thence to fall back to simplicity
and potentiality.

[49] The value of a strong intellectual grasp of the nature of this process lies in the circumstance
that what is true of the bean is true of living things in general. From very low forms up to
the highest--in the animal no less than in the vegetable kingdom--the process of life presents
the same appearance [Note 1] of cyclical evolution. Nay, we have but to cast our eyes over
the rest of the world and cyclical change presents itself on all sides.  It meets us in the
water that flows to the sea and returns to the springs; in the heavenly bodies that wax and
wane, go and return to their places; in the inexorable sequence of the ages of man's life;
in that successive rise, apogee, and fall of dynasties and of states which is the most prominent
topic of civil history.

As no man fording a swift stream can dip his foot twice into the same water, so no man can,
with exactness, affirm of anything in the sensible world that it is.[Note 2] As he utters the
words, nay, as he thinks them, the predicate ceases to be applicable; the present has become
the past; the "is" should be "was." And the more we learn of the nature of things, the more
evident is it that what we call rest is only unperceived activity; that seeming peace is silent
but strenuous battle. In every part, at every moment, the state of the cosmos is the expression
of a transitory adjustment of contending forces; a scene, of strife, in which all the combatants
fall in turn. What is [50] true of each part, is true of the whole. Natural knowledge tends
more and more to the conclusion that "all the choir of heaven and furniture of the earth" are
the transitory forms of parcels of cosmic substance wending along the road of evolution, from
nebulous potentiality, through endless growths of sun and planet and satellite; through all
varieties of matter; through infinite diversities of life and thought; possibly, through modes
of being of which we neither have a conception, nor are competent to form any, back to the
indefinable latency from which they arose. Thus the most obvious attribute of the cosmos is
its impermanence. It assumes the aspect not so much of a permanent entity as of a changeful
process in which naught endures save the flow of energy and the rational order which pervades it.

We have climbed our bean-stalk and have reached a wonderland in which the common and the familiar
become things new and strange. In the exploration of the cosmic process thus typified, the
highest intelligence of man finds inexhaustible employment; giants are subdued to our service;
and the spiritual affections of the contemplative philosopher are engaged by beauties worthy
of eternal constancy.

But there is another aspect of the cosmic process, so perfect as a mechanism, so beautiful
as a work of art. Where the cosmopoietic energy [51] works through sentient beings, there arises,
among its other manifestations, that which we call pain or suffering. This baleful product
of evolution increases in quantity and in intensity, with advancing grades of animal organization,
until it attains its highest level in man. Further, the consummation is not reached in man,
the mere animal; nor in man, the whole or half savage; but only in man, the member of an organized
polity. And it is a necessary consequence of his attempt to live in this way; that is, under
those conditions which are essential to the full development of his noblest powers.

Man, the animal, in fact, has worked his way to the headship of the sentient world, and has
become the superb animal which he is, in virtue of his success in the struggle for existence.
The conditions having been of a certain order, man's organization has adjusted itself to them
better than that of his competitors in the cosmic strife. In the case of mankind, the self-assertion,
the unscrupulous seizing upon all that can be grasped, the tenacious holding of all that can
be kept, which constitute the essence of the struggle for existence, have answered. For his
successful progress, throughout the savage state, man has been largely indebted to those qualities
which he shares with the ape and the tiger; his exceptional physical organization; his cunning,
his sociability, his curiosity, and his imitativeness; his ruthless and [52] ferocious destructiveness
when his anger is roused by opposition.

But, in proportion as men have passed from anarchy to social organization, and in proportion
as civilization has grown in worth, these deeply ingrained serviceable qualities have become
defects. After the manner of successful persons, civilized man would gladly kick down the ladder
by which he has climbed. He would be only too pleased to see "the ape and tiger die." But they
decline to suit his convenience; and the unwelcome intrusion of these boon companions of his
hot youth into the ranged existence of civil life adds pains and griefs, innumerable and immeasurably
great, to those which the cosmic process necessarily brings on the mere animal. In fact, civilized
man brands all these ape and tiger promptings with the name of sins; he punishes many of the
acts which flow from them as crimes; and, in extreme cases, he does his best to put an end
to the survival of the fittest of former days by axe and rope.

I have said that civilized man has reached this point; the assertion is perhaps too broad and
general; I had better put it that ethical man has attained thereto. The science of ethics professes
to furnish us with a reasoned rule of life; to tell us what is right action and why it is so.
Whatever differences of opinion may exist among experts there is a general consensus that the
ape and [53] tiger methods of the struggle for existence are not reconcilable with sound ethical
principles.

The hero of our story descended the bean-stalk, and came back to the common world, where fare
and work were alike hard; where ugly competitors were much commoner than beautiful princesses;
and where the everlasting battle with self was much less sure to be crowned with victory than
a turn-to with a giant. We have done the like. Thousands upon thousands of our fellows, thousands
of years ago, have preceded us in finding themselves face to face with the same dread problem
of evil. They also have seen that the cosmic process is evolution; that it is full of wonder,
full of beauty, and, at the same time, full of pain. They have sought to discover the bearing
of these great facts on ethics; to find out whether there is, or is not, a sanction for morality
in the ways of the cosmos.

Theories of the universe, in which the conception of evolution plays a leading part, were extant
at least six centuries before our era. Certain knowledge of them, in the fifth century, reaches
us from localities as distant as the valley of the Ganges and the Asiatic coasts of the Aegean.
To the early philosophers of Hindostan, no less than to those of Ionia, the salient and characteristic
feature of the phenomenal world was its [54] changefulness; the unresting flow of all things,
through birth to visible being and thence to not being, in which they could discern no sign
of a beginning and for which they saw no prospect of an ending. It was no less plain to some
of these antique forerunners of modern philosophy that suffering is the badge of all the tribe
of sentient things; that it is no accidental accompaniment, but an essential constituent of
the cosmic process. The energetic Greek might find fierce joys in a world in which "strife
is father and king;" but the old Aryan spirit was subdued to quietism in the Indian sage; the
mist of suffering which spread over humanity hid everything else from his view; to him life
was one with suffering and suffering with life.

In Hindostan, as in Ionia, a period of relatively high and tolerably stable civilization had
succeeded long ages of semi-barbarism and struggle. Out of wealth and security had come leisure
and refinement, and, close at their heels, had followed the malady of thought. To the struggle
for bare existence, which never ends, though it may be alleviated and partially disguised for
a fortunate few, succeeded the struggle to make existence intelligible and to bring the order
of things into harmony with the moral sense of man, which also never ends, but, for the thinking
few, becomes keen er with every increase of knowledge and with every step towards the realization
of a worthy ideal of life.

[55] Two thousand five hundred years ago, the value of civilization was as apparent as it is
now; then, as now, it was obvious that only in the garden of an orderly polity can the finest
fruits humanity is capable of bearing be produced. But it had also become evident that the
blessings of culture were not unmixed. The garden was apt to turn into a hothouse. The stimulation
of the senses, the pampering of the emotions, endlessly multiplied the sources of pleasure.
The constant widening of the intellectual field indefinitely extended the range of that especially
human faculty of looking before and after, which adds to the fleeting present those old and
new worlds of the past and the future, wherein men dwell the more the higher their culture.
But that very sharpening of the sense and that subtle refinement of emotion, which brought
such a wealth of pleasures, were fatally attended by a proportional enlargement of the capacity
for suffering; and the divine faculty of imagination, while it created new heavens and new
earths, provided them with the corresponding hells of futile regret for the past and morbid
anxiety for the future. [Note 3] Finally, the inevitable penalty of over-stimulation, exhaustion,
opened the gates of civilization to its great enemy, ennui; the stale and flat weariness when
man delights-not, nor woman neither; when all things are vanity and vexation; and life seems
not worth living except to escape the bore of dying.

[56] Even purely intellectual progress brings about its revenges. Problems settled in a rough
and ready way by rude men, absorbed in action, demand renewed attention and show themselves
to be still unread riddles when men have time to think. The beneficent demon, doubt, whose
name is Legion and who dwells amongst the tombs of old faiths, enters into mankind and thenceforth
refuses to be cast out. Sacred customs, venerable dooms of ancestral wisdom, hallowed by tradition
and professing to hold good for all time, are put to the question. Cultured reflection asks
for their credentials; judges them by its own standards; finally, gathers those of which it
approves into ethical systems, in which the reasoning is rarely much more than a decent pretext
for the adoption of foregone conclusions.

One of the oldest and most important elements in such systems is the conception of justice.
Society is impossible unless those who are associated agree to observe certain rules of conduct
towards one another; its stability depends on the steadiness with which they abide by that
agreement; and, so far as they waver, that mutual trust which is the bond of society is weakened
or destroyed. Wolves could not hunt in packs except for the real, though unexpressed, understanding
that they should not attack one another during the chase. The most rudimentary polity is a
pack of men living under the like tacit, or expressed, [57] understanding; and having made
the very important advance upon wolf society, that they agree to use the force of the whole
body against individuals who violate it and in favour of those who observe it. This observance
of a common understanding, with the consequent distribution of punishments and rewards according
to accepted rules, received the name of justice, while the contrary was called injustice. Early
ethics did not take much note of the animus of the violator of the rules.  But civilization
could not advance far, without the establishment of a capital distinction between the case
of involuntary and that of wilful misdeed; between a merely wrong action and a guilty one.
And, with increasing refinement of moral appreciation, the problem of desert, which arises
out of this distinction, acquired more and more theoretical and practical importance. If life
must be given for life, yet it was recognized that the unintentional slayer did not altogether
deserve death; and, by a sort of compromise between the public and the private conception of
justice, a sanctuary was provided in which he might take refuge from the avenger of blood.

The idea of justice thus underwent a gradual sublimation from punishment and reward according
to acts, to punishment and reward according to desert; or, in other words, according to motive.
Righteousness, that is, action from right motive, [58] not only became synonymous with justice,
but the positive constituent of innocence and the very heart of goodness.

Now when the ancient sage, whether Indian or Greek, who had attained to this conception of
goodness, looked the world, and especially human life, in the face, he found it as hard as
we do to bring the course of evolution into harmony with even the elementary requirement of
the ethical ideal of the just and the good.

If there is one thing plainer than another, it is that neither the pleasures nor the pains
of life, in the merely animal world, are distributed according to desert; for it is admittedly
impossible for the lower orders of sentient beings, to deserve either the one or the other.
If there is a generalization from the facts of human life which has the assent of thoughtful
men in every age and country, it is that the violator of ethical rules constantly escapes the
punishment which he deserves; that the wicked flourishes like a green bay tree, while, the
righteous begs his bread; that the sins of the fathers are visited upon the children; that,
in the realm of nature, ignorance is punished just as severely as wilful wrong; and that thousands
upon thousands of innocent beings suffer for the crime, or the unintentional trespass of one.

Greek and Semite and Indian are agreed upon [59] this subject. The book of Job is at one with
the "Works and Days" and the Buddhist Sutras; the Psalmist and the Preacher of Israel, with
the Tragic Poets of Greece. What is a more common motive of the ancient tragedy in fact, than
the unfathomable injustice of the nature of things; what is more deeply felt to be true than
its presentation of the destruction of the blameless by the work of his own hands, or by the
fatal operation of the sins of others?  Surely Oedipus was pure of heart; it was the natural
sequence of events--the cosmic process--which drove him, in all innocence, to slay his father
and become the husband of his mother, to the desolation of his people and his own headlong
ruin. Or to step, for a moment, beyond the chronological limits I have set myself, what constitutes
the sempiternal attraction of Hamlet but the appeal to deepest experience of that history of
a no less blameless dreamer, dragged, in spite of himself, into a world out of joint involved
in a tangle of crime and misery, created by one of the prime agents of the cosmic process as
it works in and through man?

Thus, brought before the tribunal of ethics, the cosmos might well seem to stand condemned.
The conscience of man revolted against the moral indifference of nature, and the microcosmic
atom should have found the illimitable macrocosm guilty. But few, or none, ventured to record
that verdict.

[60] In the great Semitic trial of this issue, Job takes refuge in silence and submission;
the Indian and the Greek, less wise perhaps, attempt to reconcile the irreconcilable and plead
for the defendant. To this end, the Greeks invented Theodicies; while the Indians devised what,
in its ultimate form, must rather be termed a Cosmodicy. For, although Buddhism recognizes
gods many and lords many, they are products of the cosmic process; and transitory, however
long enduring, manifestations of its eternal activity.  In the doctrine of transmigration,
whatever its origin, Brahminical and Buddhist speculation found, ready to hand[Note 4] the
means of constructing a plausible vindication of the ways of the cosmos to man. If this world
is full of pain and sorrow; if grief and evil fall, like the rain, upon both the just and the
unjust; it is because, like the rain, they are links in the endless chain of natural causation
by which past, present, and future are indissolubly connected; and there is no more injustice
in the one case than in the other. Every sentient being is reaping as it has sown; if not in
this life, then in one or other of the infinite series of antecedent existences of which it
is the latest term. The present distribution of good and evil is, therefore, the algebraical
sum of accumulated positive and negative deserts; or, rather, it depends on the floating balance
of the account. For it was not thought necessary that a complete settlement [61] should ever
take place. Arrears might stand over as a sort of "hanging gale;" a period of celestial happiness
just earned might be succeeded by ages of torment in a hideous nether world, the balance still
overdue for some remote ancestral error. [Note 5]

Whether the cosmic process looks any more moral than at first, after such a vindication, may
perhaps be questioned. Yet this plea of justification is not less plausible than others; and
none but very hasty thinkers will reject it on the ground of inherent absurdity. Like the doctrine
of evolution itself, that of transmigration has its roots in the world of reality; and it may
claim such support as the great argument from analogy is capable of supplying.

Everyday experience familiarizes us with the facts which are grouped under the name of heredity.
Every one of us bears upon him obvious marks of his parentage, perhaps of remoter relationships.
More particularly, the sum of tendencies to act in a certain way, which we call "character,"
is often to be traced through a long series of progenitors and collaterals. So we may justly
say that this "character"--this moral and intellectual essence of a man--does veritably pass
over from one fleshly tabernacle to another, and does really transmigrate from generation to
generation. In the new-born infant, the character of the stock lies latent, and the Ego is
little more [62] than a bundle of potentialities. But, very early, these become acutalities;
from childhood to age they manifest themselves in dulness or brightness, weakness or strength,
viciousness or uprightness; and with each feature modified by confluence with another character,
if by nothing else, the character passed on to its incarnation in new bodies.

The Indian philosophers called character, as thus defined, "karma."[Note 6] It is this karma
which passed from life to life and linked them in the chain of transmigrations; and they held
that it is modified in each life, not merely by confluence of parentage, but by its own acts.
They were, in fact, strong believers in the theory, so much disputed just at present, of the
hereditary transmission of acquired characters. That the manifestation of the tendencies of
a character may be greatly facilitated, or impeded, by conditions, of which self-discipline,
or the absence of it, are among the most important, is indubitable; but that the character
itself is modified in this way is by no means so certain; it is not so sure that the transmitted
character of an evil liver is worse, or that of a righteous man better, than that which he
received. Indian philosophy, however, did not admit of any doubt on this subject; the belief
in the influence of conditions, notably of self-discipline, on the karma was not merely a necessary
postulate of its theory of retribution, but it presented [63] the only way of escape from the
endless round of transmigrations.

The earlier forms of Indian philosophy agreed with those prevalent in our own times, in supposing
the existence of a permanent reality, or "substance," beneath the shifting series of phenomena,
whether of matter or of mind. The substance of the cosmos was "Brahma," that of the individual
man "Atman;" and the latter was separated from the former only, if I may so speak, by its phenomenal
envelope, by the casing of sensations, thoughts and desires, pleasures and pains, which make
up the illusive phantasmagoria of life. This the ignorant take for reality; their "Atman" therefore
remains eternally imprisoned in delusions, bound by the fetters of desire and scourged by the
whip of misery. But the man who has attained enlightenment sees that the apparent reality is
mere illusion, or, as was said a couple of thousand years later, that there is nothing good
nor bad but thinking makes it so. If the cosmos is just "and of our pleasant vices makes instruments
to scourge us," it would seem that the only way to escape from our heritage of evil is to destroy
that fountain of desire whence our vices flow; to refuse any longer to be the instruments of
the evolutionary process, and withdraw from the struggle for existence. If the karma is modifiable
by self-discipline, if its coarser desires, one after another, can be extinguished, the ultimate
[64] fundamental desire of self-assertion, or the desire to be, may also be destroyed. [Note
7] Then the bubble of illusion will burst, and the freed individual "Atman" will lose itself
in the universal "Brahma."

Such seems to have been the pre-Buddhistic conception of salvation, and of the way to be followed
by those who would attain thereto. No more thorough mortification of the flesh has ever been
attempted than-that achieved by the Indian ascetic anchorite; no later monachism has so nearly
succeeded in reducing the human mind to that condition of impassive quasi-somnambulism, which,
but for its acknowledged holiness, might run the risk of being confounded with idiocy.

And this salvation, it will be observed, was to be attained through knowledge, and by action
based on that knowledge; just as the experimenter, who would obtain a certain physical or chemical
result, must have a knowledge of the natural laws involved and the persistent disciplined will
adequate to carry out all the various operations required. The supernatural, in our sense of
the term, was entirely excluded. There was no external power which could affect the sequence
of cause and effect which gives rise to karma; none but the will of the subject of the karma
which could put an end to it.

Only one rule of conduct could be based upon the remarkable theory of which I have endeavoured
to give a reasoned outline. It was folly to continue [65] to exist when an overplus of pain
was certain; and the probabilities in favour of the increase of misery with the prolongation
of existence, were so overwhelming. Slaying the body only made matters worse; there was nothing
for it but to slay the soul by the voluntary arrest of all its activities.  Property, social
ties, family affections, common companionship, must be abandoned; the most natural appetites,
even that for food, must be suppressed, or at least minimized; until all that remained of a
man was the impassive, extenuated, mendicant monk, self-hypnotised into cataleptic trances,
which the deluded mystic took for foretastes of the final union with Brahma.

The founder of Buddhism accepted the chief postulates demanded by his predecessors. But he
was not satisfied with the practical annihilation involved in merging the individual existence
in the unconditioned--the Atman in Brahma. It would seem that the admission of the existence
of any substance whatever--even of the tenuity of that which has neither quality nor energy
and of which no predicate whatever can be asserted--appeared to him to be a danger and a snare.
Though reduced to a hypostatized negation, Brahma was not to be trusted; so long as entity
was there, it might conceivably resume the weary round of evolution, with all its train of
immeasurable miseries. Gautama got rid of even that [66] shade of a shadow of permanent existence
by a metaphysical tour de force of great interest to the student of philosophy, seeing that
it supplies the wanting half of Bishop Berkeley's well-known idealistic argument.

Granting the premises, I am not aware of any escape from Berkeley's conclusion, that the "substance"
of matter is a metaphysical unknown quantity, of the existence of which there is no proof.
What Berkeley does not seem to have so clearly perceived is that the non-existence of a substance
of mind is equally arguable; and that the result of the impartial applications of his reasonings
is the reduction of the All to coexistences and sequences of phenomena, beneath and beyond
which there is nothing cognoscible. It is a remarkable indication of the subtlety of Indian
speculation that Gautama should have seen deeper than the greatest of modern idealists; though
it must be admitted that, if some of Berkeley's reasonings respecting the nature of spirit
are pushed home, they reach pretty much the same conclusion. [Note 8]

Accepting the prevalent Brahminical doctrine that the whole cosmos, celestial, terrestrial,
and infernal, with its population of gods and other celestial beings, of sentient animals,
of Mara and his devils, is incessantly shifting through recurring cycles of production and
destruction, in each of which every human being has his transmigratory [67] representative,
Gautama proceeded to eliminate substance altogether; and to reduce the cosmos to a mere flow
of sensations, emotions, volitions, and thoughts, devoid of any substratum. As, on the surface
of a stream of water, we see ripples and whirlpools, which last for a while and then vanish
with the causes that gave rise to them, so what seem individual existences are mere temporary
associations of phenomena circling round a centre, "like a dog tied to a post." In the whole
universe there is nothing permanent, no eternal substance either of mind or of matter. Personality
is a metaphysical fancy; and in very truth, not only we, but all things, in the worlds without
end of the cosmic phantasmagoria, are such stuff as dreams are made of.

What then becomes of karma? Karma remains untouched. As the peculiar form of energy we call
magnetism may be transmitted from a loadstone to a piece of steel, from the steel to a piece
of nickel, as it may be strengthened or weakened by the conditions to which it is subjected
while resident in each piece, so it seems to have been conceived that karma might be transmitted
from one phenomenal association to another by a sort of induction. However this may be, Gautama
doubtless had a better guarantee for the abolition of transmigration, when no wrack of substance,
either of Atman or of Brahma, was left behind; when, in short, a man had but to [68] dream
that he willed not to dream, to put an end to all dreaming.

This end of life's dream is Nirvana. What Nirvana is the learned do not agree. But, since the
best original authorities tell us there is neither desire nor activity, nor any possibility
of phenomenal reappearance for the sage who has entered Nirvana, it may be safely said of this
acme of Buddhistic philosophy--"the rest is silence."

[Note 9] Thus there is no very great practical disagreement between Gautama and his predecessors
with respect to the end of action; but it is otherwise as regards the means to that end. With
just insight into human nature, Gautama declared extreme ascetic practices to be useless and
indeed harmful.  The appetites and the passions are not to be abolished by mere mortification
of the body; they must, in addition, be attacked on their own ground and conquered by steady
cultivation of the mental habits which oppose them; by universal benevolence; by the return
of good for evil; by humility; by abstinence from evil thought; in short, by total renunciation
of that self-assertion which is the essence of the cosmic process.

Doubtless, it is to these ethical qualities that Buddhism owes its marvellous success.[Note
10] A system which knows no God in the western sense; which denies a soul to man; which counts
the belief in immortality a blunder and the hope of it a sin; [69] which refuses any efficacy
to prayer and sacrifice; which bids men look to nothing but their own efforts for salvation;
which, in its original purity, knew nothing of vows of obedience, abhorred intolerance, and
never sought the aid of the secular arm; yet spread over a considerable moiety of the Old World
with marvellous rapidity, and is still, with whatever base admixture of foreign superstitions,
the dominant creed of a large fraction of mankind.

Let us now set our faces westwards, towards Asia Minor and Greece and Italy, to view the rise
and progress of another philosophy, apparently independent, but no less pervaded by the conception
of evolution.[Note 11]

The sages of Miletus were pronounced evolutionists; and, however dark may be some of the sayings
of Heracleitus of Ephesus, who was probably a contemporary of Gautama, no better expressions
of the essence of the modern doctrine of evolution can be found than are presented by some
of his pithy aphorisms and striking metaphors. [Note 12] Indeed, many of my present auditors
must have observed that, more than once, I have borrowed from him in the brief exposition of
the theory of evolution with which this discourse commenced.

But when the focus of Greek intellectual activity shifted to Athens, the leading minds [70]
concentrated their attention upon ethical problems.  Forsaking the study of the macrocosm for
that of the microcosm, they lost the key to the thought of the great Ephesian, which, I imagine,
is more intelligible to us than it was to Socrates, or to Plato. Socrates, more especially,
set the fashion of a kind of inverse agnosticism, by teaching that the problems of physics
lie beyond the reach of the human intellect; that the attempt to solve them is essentially
vain; that the one worthy object of investigation is the problem of ethical life; and his example
was followed by the Cynics and the later Stoics. Even the comprehensive knowledge and the penetrating
intellect of Aristotle failed to suggest to him that in holding the eternity of the world,
within its present range of mutation, he was making a retrogressive step. The scientific heritage
of Heracleitus passed into the hands neither of Plato nor of Aristotle, but into those of Democritus.
But the world was not yet ready to receive the great conceptions of the philosopher of Abdera.
It was reserved for the Stoics to return to the track marked out by the earlier philosophers;
and, professing themselves disciples of Heracleitus, to develop the idea of evolution systematically.
In doing this, they not only omitted some characteristic features of their master's teaching,
but they made additions altogether foreign to it. One of the most influential of these importations
was the transcendental [71] theism which had come into vogue. The restless, fiery energy, operating
according to law, out of which all things emerge and into which they return, in the endless
successive cycles of the great year; which creates and destroys worlds as a wanton child builds
up, and anon levels, sand castles on the seashore; was metamorphosed into a material world-soul
and decked out with all the attributes of ideal Divinity; not merely with infinite power and
transcendent wisdom, but with absolute goodness.

The consequences of this step were momentous. For if the cosmos is the effect of an immanent,
omnipotent, and infinitely beneficent cause, the existence in it of real evil, still less of
necessarily inherent evil, is plainly inadmissible. [Note 13] Yet the universal experience
of mankind testified then, as now, that, whether we look within us or without us, evil stares
us in the face on all sides; that if anything is real, pain and sorrow and wrong are realities.

It would be a new thing in history if a priori philosophers were daunted by the factious opposition
of experience; and the Stoics were the last men to allow themselves to be beaten by mere facts.
"Give me a doctrine and I will find the reasons for it," said Chrysippus. So they perfected,
if they did not invent, that ingenious and plausible form of pleading, the Theodicy; for the
purpose of showing firstly, that there is no such [72] thing as evil; secondly, that if there
is, it is the necessary correlate of good; and, moreover, that it is either due to our own
fault, or inflicted for our benefit. Theodicies have been very popular in their time, and I
believe that a numerous, though somewhat dwarfed, progeny of them still survives.

Yet, surely, if there are few more important truths than those enunciated in the first triad,
the second is open to very grave objections. That there is a "soul of good in things evil"
is unquestionable; nor will any wise man deny the disciplinary value of pain and sorrow. But
these considerations do not help us to see why the immense multitude of irresponsible sentient
beings, which cannot profit by such discipline, should suffer; nor why, among the endless possibilities
open to omnipotence--that of sinless, happy existence among the rest--the actuality in which
sin and misery abound should be that selected.

[73] Surely it is mere cheap rhetoric to call arguments which have never yet been answered
by even the meekest and the least rational of Optimists, suggestions of the pride of reason.
As to the concluding aphorism, its fittest place would be as an inscription in letters of mud
over the portal of some "stye of Epicurus"[Note 14]; for that is where the logical application
of it to practice would land men, with every aspiration stifled and every effort paralyzed.
Why try to set right what is right already? Why strive to improve the best of all possible
worlds? Let us eat and drink, for as today all is right, so to-morrow all will be.

But the attempt of the Stoics to blind themselves to the reality of evil, as a necessary concomitant
of the cosmic process, had less success than that of the Indian philosophers to exclude the
reality of good from their purview.  Unfortunately, it is much easier to shut one's eyes to
good than to evil.  Pain and sorrow knock at our doors more loudly than pleasure and happiness;
and the prints of their heavy footsteps are less easily effaced. Before the grim realities
of practical life the pleasant fictions of optimism vanished.  If this were the best of all
possible worlds, it nevertheless proved itself a very inconvenient habitation for the ideal sage.

The stoical summary of the whole duty of man, "Live according to nature," would seem to imply
that the cosmic process is an exemplar for human [74] conduct. Ethics would thus become applied
Natural History. In fact, a confused employment of the maxim, in this sense, has done immeasurable
mischief in later times. It has furnished an axiomatic foundation for the philosophy of philosophasters
and for the moralizing of sentimentalists. But the Stoics were, at bottom, not merely noble,
but sane, men; and if we look closely into what they really meant by this ill-used phrase,
it will be found to present no justification for the mischievous conclusions that have been
deduced from it.

In the language of the Stoa, "Nature" was a word of many meanings. There was the "Nature" of
the cosmos and the "Nature" of man. In the latter, the animal "nature," which man shares with
a moiety of the living part of the cosmos, was distinguished from a higher "nature." Even in
this higher nature there were grades of rank. The logical faculty is an instrument which may
be turned to account for any purpose. The passions and the emotions are so closely tied to
the lower nature that they may be considered to be pathological, rather than normal, phenomena.
The one supreme, hegemonic, faculty, which constitutes the essential "nature" of man, is most
nearly represented by that which, in the language of a later philosophy, has been called the
pure reason. It is this "nature" which holds up the ideal of the supreme good and demands absolute
submission of the will to its behests. It is [75] which commands all men to love one another,
to return good for evil, to regard one another as fellow-citizens of one great state. Indeed,
seeing that the progress towards perfection of a civilized state, or polity, depends on the
obedience of its members to these commands, the Stoics sometimes termed the pure reason the
"political" nature. Unfortunately, the sense of the adjective has undergone so much modification,
that the application of it to that which commands the sacrifice of self to the common good
would now sound almost grotesque. [Note 15]

But what part is played by the theory of evolution in this view of ethics?  So far as I can
discern, the ethical system of the Stoics, which is essentially intuitive, and reverences the
categorical imperative as strongly as that of any later moralists, might have been just what
it was if they had held any other theory; whether that of special creation, on the one side,
or that of the eternal existence of the present order, on the other.[Note 16] To the Stoic,
the cosmos had no importance for the conscience, except in so far as he chose to think it a
pedagogue to virtue. The pertinacious optimism of our philosophers hid from them the actual
state of the case. It prevented them from seeing that cosmic nature is no school of virtue,
but the headquarters of the enemy of ethical nature. The logic of facts was necessary to convince
them [76] that the cosmos works through the lower nature of man, not for righteousness, but
against it. And it finally drove them to confess that the existence of their ideal "wise man"
was incompatible with the nature of things; that even a passable approximation to that ideal
was to be attained only at the cost of renunciation of the world and mortification, not merely
of the flesh, but of all human affections. The state of perfection was that "apatheia"[Note
17] in which desire, though it may still be felt, is powerless to move the will, reduced to
the sole function of executing the commands of pure reason. Even this residuum of activity
was to be regarded as a temporary loan, as an efflux of the divine world-pervading spirit,
chafing at its imprisonment in the flesh,-until such time as death enabled it to return to
its source in the all-pervading logos.

I find it difficult to discover any very great difference between Apatheia and Nirvana, except
that stoical speculation agrees with pre-Buddhistic philosophy, rather than with the teachings
of Gautama, in so far as it postulates a permanent substance equivalent to "Brahma" and "Atman;"
and that, in stoical practice, the adoption of the life of the mendicant cynic was held to
be more a counsel of perfection than an indispensable condition of the higher life.

Thus the extremes touch. Greek thought and [77] Indian thought set out from ground common to
both, diverge widely, develop under very different physical and moral conditions, and finally
converge to practically the same end.

The Vedas and the Homeric epos set before us a world of rich and vigorous life, full of joyous
fighting men

     That ever with a frolic welcome took
     The thunder and the sunshine ....

and who were ready to brave the very Gods themselves when their blood was up. A few centuries
pass away, and under the influence of civilization the descendants of these men are "sicklied
o'er with the pale cast of thought"--frank pessimists, or, at best, make-believe optimists.
The courage of the warlike stock may be as hardly tried as before, perhaps more hardly, but
the enemy is self. The hero has become a monk. The man of action is replaced by the quietist,
whose highest aspiration is to be the passive instrument of the divine Reason. By the Tiber,
as by the Ganges, ethical man admits that the cosmos is too strong for him; and, destroying
every bond which ties him to it by ascetic discipline, he seeks salvation in absolute renunciation.[Note
18]

Modern thought is making a fresh start from the base whence Indian and Greek philosophy set
out; and, the human mind being very much what [78] it was six-and-twenty centuries ago, there
is no ground for wonder if it presents indications of a tendency to move along the old lines
to the same results.

We are more than sufficiently familiar with modern pessimism, at least as a speculation; for
I cannot call to mind that any of its present votaries have sealed their faith by assuming
the rags and the bowl of the mendicant Bhikku, or the cloak and the wallet of the Cynic. The
obstacles placed in the way of sturdy vagrancy by an unphilosophical police have, perhaps,
proved too formidable for philosophical consistency. We also know modern speculative optimism,
with its perfectibility of the species, reign of peace, and lion and lamb transformation scenes;
but one does not hear so much of it as one did forty years ago; indeed, I imagine it is to
be met with more commonly at the tables of the healthy and wealthy, than in the congregations
of the wise. The majority of us, I apprehend, profess neither pessimism nor optimism. We hold
that the world is neither so good, nor so bad, as it conceivably might be; and, as most of
us have reason, now and again, to discover that it can be. Those who have failed to experience
the joys that make life worth living are, probably, in as small a minority as those who have
never known the griefs that rob existence of its savour and turn its richest fruits into mere
dust and ashes.

[79] Further, I think I do not err in assuming that, however diverse their views on philosophical
and religious matters, most men are agreed that the proportion of good and evil in life may
be very sensibly affected by human action. I never heard anybody doubt that the evil may be
thus increased, or diminished; and it would seem to follow that good must be similarly susceptible
of addition or subtraction. Finally, to my knowledge, nobody professes to doubt that, so far
forth as we possess a power of bettering things, it is our paramount duty to use it and to
train all our intellect and energy to this supreme service of our kind.

Hence the pressing interest of the question, to what extent modern progress in natural knowledge,
and, more especially, the general outcome of that progress in the doctrine of evolution, is
competent to help us in the great work of helping one another?

The propounders of what are called the "ethics of evolution," when the "evolution of ethics"
would usually better express the object of their speculations, adduce a number of more or less
interesting facts and more or less sound arguments in favour of the origin of the moral sentiments,
in the same way as other natural phenomena, by a process of evolution. I have little doubt,
for my own part, that they are on the right track; but as the immoral sentiments have no less
been evolved, there is, so far, as much natural sanction for the [80] one as the other. The
thief and the murderer follow nature just as much as the philanthropist. Cosmic evolution may
teach us how the good and the evil tendencies of man may have come about; but, in itself, it
is incompetent to furnish any better reason why what we call good is preferable to what we
call evil than we had before. Some day, I doubt not, we shall arrive at an understanding of
the evolution of the Aesthetic faculty; but all the understanding in the world will neither
increase nor diminish the force of the intuition that this is beautiful and that is ugly.

There is another fallacy which appears to me to pervade the so-called "ethics of evolution."
It is the notion that because, on the whole, animals and plants have advanced in perfection
of organization by means of the struggle for existence and the consequent "survival of the
fittest;" therefore men in society, men as ethical beings, must look to the same process to
help them towards perfection. I suspect that this fallacy has arisen out of the unfortunate
ambiguity of the phrase "survival of the fittest." "Fittest" has a connotation of "best;" and
about "best" there hangs a moral flavour. In cosmic nature, however, what is "fittest" depends
upon the conditions. Long since [Note 19], I ventured to point out that if our hemisphere were
to cool again, the survival of the fittest might bring about, in the vegetable kingdom, a population
of more and more stunted and humbler [81] and humbler organisms, until the "fittest" that survived
might be nothing but lichens, diatoms, and such microscopic organisms as those which give red
snow its colour; while, if it became hotter, the pleasant valleys of the Thames and Isis might,
be uninhabitable by any animated beings save those that flourish in a tropical jungle. They,
as the fittest, the best adapted to the changed conditions, would survive.

Men in society are undoubtedly subject to the cosmic process. As among other animals, multiplication
goes on without cessation, and involves severe competition for the means of support. The struggle
for existence tends to eliminate those less fitted to adapt themselves to the circumstances
of their existence. The strongest, the most self-assertive, tend to tread down the weaker.
But the influence of the cosmic process on the evolution of society is the greater the more
rudimentary its civilization.  Social progress means a checking of the cosmic, process at every
step and the substitution for it of another, which may be called the ethical process; the end
of which is not the survival of those who may happen to be the fittest, in respect of the whole
of the conditions which obtain, but of those who are ethically the best.[Note 20]

As I have already urged, the practice of that which is ethically best--what we call goodness
or virtue--involves a course of conduct which, in all [82] respects, is opposed to that which
leads to success in the cosmic struggle for existence. In place of ruthless self-assertion
it demands self-restraint; in place of thrusting aside, or treading down, all competitors,
it requires that the individual shall not merely respect, but shall help his fellows; its influence
is directed, not so much to the survival of the fittest, as to the fitting of as many as possible
to survive. It repudiates the gladiatorial theory of existence. It demands that each man who
enters into the enjoyment of the advantages of a polity shall be mindful of his debt to those
who have laboriously constructed it; and shall take heed that no act of his weakens the fabric
in which he has been permitted to live. Laws and moral precepts are directed to the end of
curbing the cosmic process and reminding the individual of his duty to the community, to the
protection and influence of which he owes, if not existence itself, at least the life of something
better than a brutal savage.

It is from neglect of these plain considerations that the fanatical individualism [Note 21]
of our time attempts to apply the analogy of cosmic nature to society. Once more we have a
misapplication of the stoical injunction to follow nature; the duties of the individual to
the state are forgotten, and his tendencies to self-assertion are dignified by the name of
rights. It is seriously debated whether the members of a community are justified in using [83]
their combined strength to constrain one of their number to contribute his share to the maintenance
of it; or even to prevent him from doing his best to destroy it. The struggle for existence
which has done such admirable work in cosmic nature, must, it appears, be equally beneficent
in the ethical sphere. Yet if that which I have insisted upon is true; if the cosmic process
has no sort of relation to moral ends; if the imitation of it by man is inconsistent with the
first principles of ethics; what becomes of this surprising theory?

Let us understand, once for all, that the ethical progress of society depends, not on imitating
the cosmic process, still less in running away from it, but in combating it. It may seem an
audacious proposal thus to pit the microcosm against the macrocosm and to set man to subdue
nature to his higher ends; but I venture to think that the great intellectual difference between
the ancient times with which we have been occupied and our day, lies in the solid foundation
we have acquired for the hope that such an enterprise may meet with a certain measure of success.

The history of civilization details the steps by which men have succeeded in building up an
artificial world within the cosmos. Fragile reed as he may be, man, as Pascal says, is a thinking
reed: [Note 22] there lies within him a fund of energy operating intelligently and so far akin
to that which pervades the universe, that it is competent [84] to influence and modify the
cosmic process. In virtue of his intelligence, the dwarf bends the Titan to his will. In every
family, in every polity that has been established, the cosmic process in man has been restrained
and otherwise modified by law and custom; in surrounding nature, it has been similarly influenced
by the art of the shepherd, the agriculturist, the artisan. As civilization has advanced, so
has the extent of this interference increased; until the organized and highly developed sciences
and arts of the present day have endowed man with a command over the course of non-human nature
greater than that once attributed to the magicians. The most impressive, I might say startling,
of these changes have been brought about in the course of the last two centuries; while a right
comprehension of the process of life and of the means of influencing its manifestations is
only just dawning upon us.  We do not yet see our way beyond generalities; and we are befogged
by the obtrusion of false analogies and crude anticipations. But Astronomy, Physics, Chemistry,
have all had to pass through similar phases, before they reached the stage at which their influence
became an important factor in human affairs. Physiology, Psychology, Ethics, Political Science,
must submit to the same ordeal. Yet it seems to me irrational to doubt that, at no distant
period, they will work as great a revolution in the sphere of practice.

[85] The theory of evolution encourages no millennial anticipations. If, for millions of years,
our globe has taken the upward road, yet, some time, the summit will be reached and the downward
route will be commenced. The most daring imagination will hardly venture upon the suggestion
that the power and the intelligence of man can ever arrest the procession of the great year.

Moreover, the cosmic nature born with us and, to a large extent, necessary for our maintenance,
is the outcome of millions of years of severe training, and it would be folly to imagine that
a few centuries will suffice to subdue its masterfulness to purely ethical ends. Ethical nature
may count upon having to reckon with a tenacious and powerful enemy as long as the world lasts.
But, on the other hand, I see no limit to the extent to which intelligence and will, guided
by sound principles of investigation, and organized in common effort, may modify the conditions
of existence, for a period longer than that now covered by history. And much may be done to
change the nature of man himself. [Note 23] The intelligence which has converted the brother
of the wolf into the faithful guardian of the flock ought to be able to do something towards
curbing the instincts of savagery in civilized men.

But if we may permit ourselves at larger hope of abatement of the essential evil of the world
than was possible to those who, in the infancy of [86] exact knowledge, faced the problem of
existence more than a score of centuries ago, I deem it an essential condition of the realization
of that hope that we should cast aside the notion that the escape from pain and sorrow is the
proper object of life.

We have long since emerged from the heroic childhood of our race, when good and evil could
be met with the same "frolic welcome;" the attempts to escape from evil, whether Indian or
Greek, have ended in flight from the battle-field; it remains to us to throw aside the youthful
overconfidence and the no less youthful discouragement of nonage. We are grown men, and must
play the man

     "...strong in will
     To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield,"

cherishing the good that falls in our way, and bearing the evil, in and around us, with stout
hearts set on diminishing it. So far, we all may strive in one faith towards one hope:

     "... It may be that the gulfs will wash us down,
     It may be we shall touch the Happy Isles,

     ... but something ere the end,
     Some work of noble note may yet be done." [Note 24]

[187]

                               NOTES.

Note 1 (p. 49).

I have been careful to speak of the "appearance" of cyclical evolution presented by living
things; for, on critical examination, it will be found that the course of vegetable and of
animal life is not exactly represented by, the figure of a cycle which returns into itself.
What actually happens, in all but the lowest organisms, is that one part of the growing germ
(A) gives rise to tissues and organs; while another part (B) remains in its primitive condition,
or is but slightly modified. The moiety A becomes the body of the adult and, sooner or later,
perishes, while portions of the moiety B are detached and, as offspring, continue the life
of the species.  Thus, if we trace back an organism along the direct line of descent from its
remotest ancestor, B, as a whole, has never suffered death; portions of it, only, have been
cast off and died in each individual offspring.

Everybody is familiar with the way in which the "suckers" of a strawberry plant behave. A thin
cylinder of living tissue keeps on growing at its free end, until it attains a considerable
length. At [88] successive intervals, it develops buds which grow into strawberry plants; and
these become independent by the death of the parts of the sucker which connect them. The rest
of the sucker, however, may go on living and growing indefinitely, and, circumstances remaining
favourable, there is no obvious reason why it should ever die. The living substance B, in a
manner, answers to the sucker. If we could restore the continuity which was once possessed
by the portions of B, contained in all the individuals of a direct line of descent, they would
form a sucker, or stolon, on which these individuals would be strung, and which would never
have wholly died.

A species remains unchanged so long as the potentiality of development resident in B remains
unaltered; so long, e.g., as the buds of the strawberry sucker tend to become typical strawberry
plants. In the case of the progressive evolution of a species, the developmental potentiality
of B becomes of a higher and higher order. In retrogressive evolution, the contrary would be
the case. The phenomena of atavism seem to show that retrogressive evolution that is, the return
of a species to one or other of its earlier forms, is a possibility to be reckoned with. The
simplification of structure, which is so common in the parasitic members of a group, however,
does not properly come under this head. The worm-like, limbless Lernoea has no resemblance
to any of the stages of development of the many-limbed active animals of the group to which
it belongs. [89] Note 2 (p. 49).

Heracleitus says,[Greek phrase Potamo gar ouk esti dis embenai to suto] but, to be strictly
accurate, the river remains, though the water of which it is composed changes--just as a man
retains his identity though the whole substance of his body is constantly shifting.

This is put very well by Seneca (Ep. lvii. i. 20, Ed. Ruhkopf): "Corpora nostra rapiuntur fluminum
more, quidquid vides currit cum tempore; nihil ex his quae videmus manet. Ego ipse dum loquor
mutari ista, mutatus sum. Hoc est quod ait Heraclitus 'In idem flumen bis non descendimus.'
Manet idem fluminis nomen, aqua transmissa est. Hoc in amne manifestius est quam in homine,
sed nos quoque non minus velox cursus praetervehit."

Note 3 (p. 55).

"Multa bona nostra nobis nocent, timoris enim tormentum memorin reducit, providentia anticipat.
Nemo tantum praesentibus miser est." (Seneca, Ed. v.  7.)

Among the many wise and weighty aphorisms of the Roman Bacon, few sound the realities of life
more deeply than "Multa bona nostra nobis nocent." If there is a soul of good in things evil,
it is at least equally true that there is a soul of evil in things good: for things, like men,
have "les defauts de leurs qualites." It is one of the last lessons one learns from experience,
but not the least important, that a [90] heavy tax is levied upon all forms of success, and
that failure is one of the commonest disguises assumed by blessings.

Note 4 (p. 60).

"There is within the body of every man a soul which, at the death of the body, flies away from
it like a bird out of a cage, and enters upon a new life ... either in one of the heavens or
one of the hells or on this earth.  The only exception is the rare case of a man having in
this life acquired a true knowledge of God. According to the pre-Buddhistic theory, the soul
of such a man goes along the path of the Gods to God, and, being united with Him, enters upon
an immortal life in which his individuality is not extinguished. In the latter theory his soul
is directly absorbed into the Great Soul, is lost in it, and has no longer any independent
existence. The souls of all other men enter, after the death of the body, upon a new existence
in one or other of the many different modes of being. If in heaven or hell, the soul itself
becomes a god or demon without entering a body; all superhuman beings, save the great gods,
being looked upon as not eternal, but merely temporary creatures. If the soul returns to earth
it may or may not enter a new body; and this either of a human being, an animal, a plant, or
even a material object. For all these are possessed of souls, and there is no essential difference
between these souls and the souls of men--all being alike mere sparks of the Great Spirit,
who is [91] the only real existence." (Rhys Davids, Hibbert Lectures, 1881, p. 83.)

For what I have said about Indian Philosophy, I am particularly indebted to the luminous exposition
of primitive Buddhism and its relations to earlier Hindu thought, which is given by Prof. Rhys
Davids in his remarkable Hibbert Lectures for 1881, and Buddhism (1890). The only apology I
can offer for the freedom with which I have borrowed from him in these notes, is my desire
to leave no doubt as to my indebtedness. I have also found Dr. Oldenberg's Buddha (Ed. 2, 1890)
very helpful. The origin of the theory of transmigration stated in the above extract is an
unsolved problem. That it differs widely from the Egyptian metempsychosis is clear. In fact,
since men usually people the other world with phantoms of this, the Egyptian doctrine would
seem to presuppose the Indian as a more archaic belief.

Prof. Rhys Davids has fully insisted upon the ethical importance of the transmigration theory.
"One of the latest speculations now being put forward among ourselves would seek to explain
each man's character, and even his outward condition in life, by the character he inherited
from his ancestors, a character gradually formed during a practically endless series of past
existences, modified only by the conditions into which he was born, those very conditions being
also, in like manner, the last result of a practically endless series of past causes. Gotama's;
speculation might be stated in the same words. But it attempted also to explain, in a way different
from [92] that which would be adopted by the exponents of the modern theory, that strange problem
which it is also the motive of the wonderful drama of the book of Job to explain--the fact
that the actual distribution here of good fortune, or misery, is entirely independent of the
moral qualities which men call good or bad. We cannot wonder that a teacher, whose whole system
was so essentially an ethical reformation, should have felt it incumbent upon him to seek an
explanation of this apparent injustice. And all the more so, since the belief he had inherited,
the theory of the transmigration of souls, had provided a solution perfectly sufficient to
any one who could accept that belief." (Hibbert Lectures, p. 93.) I should venture to suggest
the substitution of "largely" for "entirely" in the foregoing passage. Whether a ship makes
a good or a bad voyage is largely independent of the conduct of the captain, but it is largely
affected by that conduct. Though powerless before a hurricane he may weather a bad gale.

Note 5 (P. 61).

The outward condition of the soul is, in each new birth, determined by its actions in a previous
birth; but by each action in succession, and not by the balance struck after the evil has been
reckoned off against the good. A good man who has once uttered a slander may spend a hundred
thousand years as a god, in consequence of his goodness, and when the power of his good actions
is exhausted, may be born [93] as a dumb man on account of his transgression; and a robber
who has once done an act of mercy, may come to life in a king's body as the result of his virtue,
and then suffer torments for ages in hell or as a ghost without a body, or be re-born many
times as a slave or an outcast, in consequence of his evil life.

"There is no escape, according to this theory, from the result of any act; though it is only
the consequences of its own acts that each soul has to endure. The force has been set in motion
by itself and can never stop; and its effect can never be foretold. If evil, it can never be
modified or prevented, for it depends on a cause already completed, that is now for ever beyond
the soul's control. There is even no continuing consciousness, no memory of the past that could
guide the soul to any knowledge of its fate.  The only advantage open to it is to add in this
life to the sum of its good actions, that it may bear fruit with the rest. And even this can
only happen in some future life under essentially them same conditions as the present one:
subject, like the present one, to old age, decay, and death; and affording opportunity, like
the present one, for the commission of errors, ignorances, or sins, which in their turn must
inevitably produce their due effect of sickness, disability, or woe. Thus is the soul tossed
about from life to life, from billow to billow in the great ocean of transmigration.  And there
is no escape save for the very few, who, during their birth as men, attain to a right knowledge
of the Great Spirit: and thus enter into immortality, or, as the later [94] philosophers taught,
are absorbed into the Divine Essence." (Rhys Davids, Hibbert Lectures, pp. 85, 86.)

The state after death thus imagined by the Hindu philosophers has a certain analogy to the
purgatory of the Roman Church; except that escape from it is dependent, not on a divine decree
modified, it may be, by sacerdotal or saintly intercession, but by the acts of the individual
himself; and that while ultimate emergence into heavenly bliss of the good, or well-prayed
for, Catholic is professedly assured, the chances in favour of the attainment of absorption,
or of Nirvana, by any individual Hindu are extremely small.

Note 6 (P. 62).

"That part of the then prevalent transmigration theory which could not be proved false seemed
to meet a deeply felt necessity, seemed to supply a moral cause which would explain the unequal
distribution here of happiness or woe, so utterly inconsistent with the present characters
of men." Gautama "still therefore talked of men's previous existence, but by no means in the
way that he is generally represented to have done." What he taught was "the transmigration
of character." He held that after the death of any being, whether human or not, there survived
nothing at all but that being's "Karma," the result, that is, of its mental and bodily actions.
Every individual, whether human or divine, was the last inheritor and the last result of the
Karma of a long series of past individuals--"a series [95] so long that its beginning is beyond
the reach of calculation, and its end will be coincident with the destruction of the world."
(Rhys Davids, Hibbert Lectures, p. 92.)

In the theory of evolution, the tendency of a germ to develop according to a certain specific
type, e.g. of the kidney bean seed to grow into a plant having all the characters of Phaseolus
vulgaris, is its "Karma." It is the "last inheritor and the last result" of all the conditions
that have affected a line of ancestry which goes back for many millions of years to the time
when life first appeared on the earth. The moiety B of the substance of the bean plant (see
Note 1) is the last link in a once continuous chain extending from the primitive living substance:
and the characters of the successive species to which it has given rise are the manifestations
of its gradually modified Karma. As Prof. Rhys Davids aptly says, the snowdrop "is a snowdrop
and not an oak, and just that kind of snowdrop, because it is the outcome of the Karma of an
endless series of past existences." (Hibbert Lectures, p. 114.)

Note 7 (p. 64).

"It is interesting to notice that the very point which is the weakness of the theory--the supposed
concentration of the effect of the Karma in one new being--presented itself to the early Buddhists
themselves as a difficulty.  They avoided it, partly by explaining that it was a particular
thirst in the creature dying (a craving, Tanha, which plays other [96] wise a great part in
the Buddhist theory) which actually caused the birth of the new individual who was to inherit
the Karma of the former one. But, how this too place, how the craving desire produced this
effect, was acknowledged to be a mystery patent only to a Buddha." (Rhys Davids, Hibbert Lectures,
P. 95.)

Among the many parallelisms of Stoicism and Buddhism, it is curious to find one for this Tanha,
"thirst," or "craving desire" for life. Seneca writes (Epist. lxxvi. 18): "Si enim ullum aliud
est bonum quam honestum, sequetur nos aviditas vitae aviditas rerum vitam instruentium: quod
est intolerabile infinitum, vagum."

Note 8 (P. 66).

"The distinguishing characteristic of Buddhism was that it started a new line, that it looked
upon the deepest questions men have to solve from an entirely different standpoint. It swept
away from the field of its vision the whole of the great soul theory which had hitherto so
completely filled and dominated the minds of the superstitious and the thoughtful alike. For
the first time in the history of the world, it proclaimed a salvation which each man could
gain for himself and by himself, in this world, during this life, without any the least reference
to God, or to Gods, either great or small. Like the Upanishads, it placed the first importance
on knowledge; but it was no longer a knowledge of God, it was a clear perception of the real
nature, as [97] they supposed it to be, of men and things. And it added to the necessity of
knowledge, the necessity of purity, of courtesy, of uprightness, of peace and of a universal
love far reaching, grown great and beyond measure." (Rhys Davids, Hibbert Lectures, p. 29.)

The contemporary Greek philosophy takes an analogous direction. According to Heracleitus, the
universe was made neither by Gods nor men; but, from all eternity, has been, and to all eternity,
will be, immortal fire, glowing and fading in due measure. (Mullach, Heracliti Fragmenta, 27.)
And the part assigned by his successors, the Stoics, to the knowledge and the volition of the
"wise man" made their Divinity (for logical thinkers) a subject for compliments, rather than
a power to be reckoned with. In Hindu speculation the "Arahat," still more the "Buddha," becomes
the superior of Brahma; the stoical "wise man" is, at least, the equal of Zeus.

Berkeley affirms over and over again that no idea can be formed of a soul or spirit--"If any
man shall doubt of the truth of what is here delivered, let him but reflect and try if he can
form any idea of power or active being; and whether he hath ideas of two principal powers marked
by the names of will and understanding distinct from each other, as well as from a third idea
of substance or being in general, with a relative notion of its supporting or being the subject
of the aforesaid power, which is signified by the name soul or spirit. This is what some hold
but, so far as I can see, the words will, soul, spirit, do not stand for different ideas or,
in truth, for any idea at all, but for something which is very different from ideas, and which,
being an agent, cannot be like unto or represented by Any idea whatever [though it must be
owned at the same time, that we have some notion of soul, spirit, and the operations of the
mind, such as willing, loving, hating, inasmuch as we know or understand the meaning of these
words". (The Principles of Human Knowledge, lxxvi. See also sections lxxxix., cxxxv., cxlv.)

It is open to discussion, I think, whether it is possible to have "some notion" of that of
which we can form no "idea."

Berkeley attaches several predicates to the "perceiving active being mind, spirit, soul or
myself" (Parts I. II.) It is said, for example, to be "indivisible, incorporeal, unextended,
and incorruptible." The predicate indivisible, though negative in form, has highly positive
consequences. For, if "perceiving active being" is strictly indivisible, man's soul must be
one with the Divine spirit: which is good Hindu or Stoical doctrine, but hardly orthodox Christian
philosophy. If, on the other hand, the "substance" of active perceiving "being" is actually
divided into the one Divine and innumerable human entities, how can the predicate "indivisible"
be rigorously applicable to it?

Taking the words cited, as they stand, the amount to the denial of the possibility of any knowledge
of substance. "Matter" having been resolved into mere affections of "spirit", "spirit" melts
away into an admittedly inconceivable and unknowable [99] hypostasis of thought and power--consequently
the existence of anything in the universe beyond a flow of phenomena is a purely hypothetical
assumption. Indeed a pyrrhonist might raise the objection that if "esse" is "percipi" spirit
itself can have no existence except as a perception, hypostatized into a "self," or as a perception
of some other spirit. In the former case, objective reality vanishes; in the latter, there
would seem to be the need of an infinite series of spirits each perceiving the others.

It is curious to observe how very closely the phraseology of Berkeley sometimes approaches
that of the Stoics: thus (cxlviii.) "It seems to be a general pretence of the unthinking herd
that they cannot see God. . . But, alas, we need only open our eyes to see the Sovereign Lord
of all things with a more full and clear view, than we do any of our fellow-creatures . . 
. we do at all times and in all places perceive manifest tokens of the Divinity: everything
we see, hear, feel, or any wise perceive by sense, being a sign or effect of the power of God"
. . . cxlix. "It is therefore plain, that nothing can be more evident to any one that is capable
of the least reflection, than the existence of God, or a spirit who is intimately present to
our minds, producing in them all that variety of ideas or sensations which continually affect
us, on whom we have an absolute and entire dependence, in short, in whom we live and move and
have our being." cl. "[But you will say hath Nature no share in the production of natural things,
and must they all be ascribed to the immediate and sole operation of God? ... if by Nature
is [100] meant some being distinct from God, as well as from the laws of nature and things
perceived by sense, I must confess that word is to me an empty sound, without any intelligible
meaning annexed to it.] Nature in this acceptation is a vain Chimaera introduced by those heathens,
who had not just notions of the omnipresence and infinite perfection of God."

Compare Seneca (De Beneficiis, iv. 7):

"Natura, inquit, haec mihi praestat. Non intelligis te, quum hoc dicis, mutare Nomen Deo? Quid
enim est aliud Natura quam Deus, et divina ratio, toti mundo et partibus ejus inserta? Quoties
voles tibi licet aliter hunc auctorem rerum nostrarum compellare, et Jovem illum optimum et
maximum rite dices, et tonantem, et statorem: qui non, ut historici tradiderunt, ex eo quod
post votum susceptum acies Romanorum fugientum stetit, sed quod stant beneficio ejus omnina,
stator, stabilitorque est: hunc eundem et fatum si dixeris, non mentieris, nam quum fatum nihil
aliud est, quam series implexa causarum, ille est prima omnium causa, ea qua caeterae pendent."
It would appear, therefore, that the good Bishop is somewhat hard upon the "heathen," of whose
words his own might be a paraphrase.

There is yet another direction in which Berkeley's philosophy, I will not say agrees with Gautama's,
but at any rate helps to make a fundamental dogma of Buddhism intelligible.

"I find I can excite ideas in my mind at pleasure, and vary and shift the scene as often as
I think fit. It is no more than willing, and straightway this or that idea arises in my fancy:
and by the same power [101] it is obliterated, and makes way for another. This making and unmaking
of ideas doth very properly denominate the mind active. This much is certain and grounded on
experience. . ." (Principles, xxviii.)

A good many of us, I fancy, have reason to think that experience tells them very much the contrary;
and are painfully familiar with the obsession of the mind by ideas which cannot be obliterated
by any effort of the will and steadily refuse to make way for others. But what I desire to
point out is that if Gautama was equally confident that he could "make and unmake" ideas--then,
since he had resolved self into a group of ideal phantoms--the possibility of abolishing self
by volition naturally followed.

Note 9 (P. 68).

According to Buddhism, the relation of one life to the next is merely that borne by the flame
of one lamp to the flame of another lamp which is set alight by it. To the "Arahat" or adept
"no outward form, no compound thing, no creature, no creator, no existence of any kind, must
appear to be other than a temporary collocation of its component parts, fated inevitably to
be dissolved."--(Rhys Davids, Hibbert Lectures, p. 211.)

The self is nothing but a group of phenomena held together by the desire of life; when that
desire shall have ceased, "the Karma of that particular chain of lives will cease to influence
any longer any distinct individual, and there will be no more birth; [102] for birth, decay,
and death, grief, lamentation, and despair will have come, so far as regards that chain of
lives, for ever to an end."

The state of mind of the Arahat in which the desire of life has ceased is Nirvana. Dr. Oldenberg
has very acutely and patiently considered the various interpretations which have been attached
to "Nirvana" in the work to which I have referred (pp. 285 et seq.). The result of his and
other discussions of the question may I think be briefly stated thus:

1. Logical deduction from the predicates attached to the term "Nirvana" strips it of all reality,
conceivability, or perceivability, whether by Gods or men. For all practical purposes, therefore,
it comes to exactly the same thing as annihilation.

2. But it is not annihilation in the ordinary sense, inasmuch as it could take place in the
living Arahat or Buddha.

3. And, since, for the faithful Buddhist, that which was abolished in the Arahat was the possibility
of further pain, sorrow, or sin; and that which was attained was perfect peace; his mind directed
itself exclusively to this joyful consummation, and personified the negation of all conceivable
existence and of all pain into a positive bliss. This was all the more easy, as Gautama refused
to give any dogmatic definition of Nirvana. There is something analogous in the way in which
people commonly talk of the "happy release" of a man who has been long suffering from mortal
disease. According to their own views, it must always be extremely doubtful whether the man
will be any happier after the "release" [103] than before. But they do not choose to look at
the matter in this light.

The popular notion that, with practical, if not metaphysical, annihilation in view, Buddhism
must needs be a sad and gloomy faith seems to be inconsistent with fact; on the contrary, the
prospect of Nirvana fills the true believer, not merely with cheerfulness, but with an ecstatic
desire to reach it.

Note 10 (P. 68.)

The influence of the picture of the personal qualities of Gautama, afforded by the legendary
anecdotes which rapidly grew into a biography of the Buddha; and by the birth stories, which
coalesced with the current folk-lore, and were intelligible to all the world, doubtless played
a great part. Further, although Gautama appears not to have meddled with the caste system,
he refused to recognize any distinction, save that of perfection in the way of salvation, among
his followers; and by such teaching, no less than by the inculcation of love and benevolence
to all sentient beings, he practically levelled every social, political, and racial barrier.
A third important condition was the organization of the Buddhists into monastic communities
for the stricter professors, while the laity were permitted a wide indulgence in practice and
were allowed to hope for accommodation in some of the temporary abodes of bliss. With a few
hundred thousand years of immediate paradise in sight, the average man could be content to
shut his eyes to what might follow.

[104]

Note 11 (P. 69).

In ancient times it was the fashion, even among the Greeks themselves, to derive all Greek
wisdom from Eastern sources; not long ago it was as generally denied that Greek philosophy
had any connection, with Oriental speculation; it seems probable, however, that the truth lies
between these extremes.

The Ionian intellectual movement does not stand alone. It is only one of several sporadic indications
of the working of some powerful mental ferment over the whole of the area comprised between
the Aegean and Northern Hindostan during the eighth, seventh, and sixth centuries before our
era. In these three hundred years, prophetism attained its apogee among the Semites of Palestine;
Zoroasterism grew and became the creed of a conquering race, the Iranic Aryans; Buddhism rose
and spread with marvellous rapidity among the Aryans of Hindostan; while scientific naturalism
took its rise among the Aryans of Ionia. It would be difficult to find another three centuries
which have given birth to four events of equal importance. All the principal existing religions
of mankind have grown out of the first three: while the fourth is the little spring, now swollen
into the great stream of positive science. So far as physical possibilities go, the prophet
Jeremiah and the oldest Ionian philosopher might have met and conversed. If they had done so,
they would probably have disagreed a good deal; and it is interesting to reflect that their
discussions might have [105] embraced Questions which, at the present day, are still hotly
controverted.

The old Ionian philosophy, then, seems to be only one of many results of a stirring of the
moral and intellectual life of the Aryan and the Semitic populations of Western Asia. The conditions
of this general awakening were doubtless manifold; but there is one which modern research has
brought into great prominence. This is the existence of extremely ancient and highly advanced
societies in the valleys of the Euphrates and of the Nile.

It is now known that, more than a thousand--perhaps more than two thousand--years before the
sixth century B.C., civilization had attained a relatively high pitch among the Babylonians
and the Egyptians. Not only had painting, sculpture, architecture, and the industrial arts
reached a remarkable development; but in Chaldaea, at any rate, a vast amount of knowledge
had been accumulated and methodized, in the departments of grammar, mathematics, astronomy,
and natural history. Where such traces of the scientific spirit are visible, naturalistic speculation
is rarely far off, though, so far as I know, no remains of an Accacian, or Egyptian, philosophy,
properly so called, have yet been recovered.

Geographically, Chaldaea occupied a central position among the oldest seats of civilization.
Commerce, largely aided by the intervention of those colossal pedlars, the Phoenicians, had
brought Chaldaea into connection with all of them, for a thousand years before the epoch at
present under consideration. And in the ninth, eighth and seventh [106] centuries, the Assyrian,
the depositary of Chaldaean civilization, as the Macedonian and the Roman, at a later date,
were the depositories of Greek culture, had added irresistible force to the other agencies
for the wide distribution of Chaldaean literature, art, and science.

I confess that I find it difficult to imagine that the Greek immigrant--who stood in somewhat
the same relation to the Babylonians and the Egyptians as the later Germanic barbarians to
the Romans of the Empire--should not have been immensely influenced by the new life with which
they became acquainted.  But there is abundant direct evidence of the magnitude of this influence
in certain spheres. I suppose it is not doubted that the Greek went to school with the Oriental
for his primary instruction in reading, writing, and arithmetic; and that Semitic theology
supplied him with some of his mythological lore. Nor does there now seem to be any question
about the large indebtedness of Greek art to that of Chaldaea and that of Egypt.

But the manner of that indebtedness is very instructive. The obligation is clear, but its limits
are no less definite. Nothing better exemplifies the indomitable originality of the Greeks
than the relations of their art to that of the Orientals. Far from being subdued into mere
imitators by the technical excellence of their teachers, they lost no time in bettering the
instruction they received, using their models as mere stepping stones on the way to those unsurpassed
and unsurpassable achievements which are all their own. The shibboleth of Art is [107] the
human figure. The ancient Chaldaeans and Egyptians, like the modern Japanese, did wonders in
the representation of birds and quadrupeds; they even attained to something more than respectability
in human portraiture. But their utmost efforts never brought them within range of the best
Greek embodiments of the grace of womanhood, or of the severer beauty of manhood.

It is worth while to consider the probable effect upon the acute and critical Greek mind of
the conflict of ideas, social, political, and theological, which arose out of the conditions
of life in the Asiatic colonies. The Ionian polities had passed through the whole gamut of
social and political changes, from patriarchal and occasionally oppressive kingship to rowdy
and still more burdensome mobship--no doubt with infinitely eloquent and copious argumentation,
on both sides, at every stage of their progress towards that arbitrament of force which settles
most political questions. The marvellous speculative faculty, latent in the Ionian, had come
in contact with Mesopotamian, Egyptian, Phoenician theologies and cosmogonies; with the illuminati
of Orphism and the fanatics and dreamers of the Mysteries; possibly with Buddhism and Zoroasterism;
possibly even with Judaism. And it has been observed that the mutual contradictions of antagonistic
supernaturalisms are apt to play a large part among the generative agencies of naturalism.

Thus, various external influences may have contributed to the rise of philosophy among the
Ionian Greeks of the sixth century. But the assimilative [108] capacity of the Greek mind--its
power of Hellenizing whatever it touched--has here worked so effectually, that, so far as I
can learn, no indubitable traces of such extraneous contributions are now allowed to exist
by the most authoritative historians of Philosophy.  Nevertheless, I think it must be admitted
that the coincidences between the Heracleito-stoical doctrines and those of the older Hindu
philosophy are extremely remarkable. In both, the cosmos pursues an eternal succession of cyclical
changes. The great year, answering to the Kalpa, covers an entire cycle from the origin of
the universe as a fluid to its dissolution in fire--"Humor initium, ignis exitus mundi," as
Seneca has it. In both systems, there is immanent in the cosmos a source of energy, Brahma,
or the Logos, which works according to fixed laws. The individual soul is an efflux of this
world-spirit, and returns to it. Perfection is attainable only by individual effort, through
ascetic discipline, and is rather a state of painlessness than of happiness; if indeed it can
be said to be a state of anything, save the negation of perturbing emotion. The hatchment motto
"In Coelo Quies" would serve both Hindu and Stoic; and absolute quiet is not easily distinguishable
from annihilation.

Zoroasterism, which, geographically, occupies a position intermediate between Hellenism and
Hinduism, agrees with the latter in recognizing the essential evil of the cosmos; but differs
from both in its intensely anthropomorphic personification of the two antagonistic principles,
to the one of which it ascribes all the good; and, to the other, all the evil.

[109] In fact, it assumes the existence of two worlds, one good and one bad; the latter created
by the evil power for the purpose of damaging the former.  The existing cosmos is a mere mixture
of the two, and the "last judgment" is a root-and-branch extirpation of the work of Ahriman.

Note 12 (p. 69).

There is no snare in which the feet of a modern student of ancient lore are more easily entangled,
than that which is spread by the similarity of the language of antiquity to modern modes of
expression. I do not presume to interpret the obscurest of Greek philosophers; all I wish is
to point out, that his words, in the sense accepted by competent interpreters, fit modern ideas
singularly well.

So far as the general theory of evolution goes there is no difficulty. The aphorism about the
river; the figure of the child playing on the shore; the kingship and fatherhood of strife,
seem decisive. The [Greek phrase osod ano kato mie] expresses, with singular aptness, the cyclical
aspect of the one process of organic evolution in individual plants and animals: yet it may
be a question whether the Heracleitean strife included any distinct conception of the struggle
for existence. Again, it is tempting to compare the part played by the Heracleitean "fire"
with that ascribed by the moderns to heat, or rather to that cause of motion of which heat
is one expression; and a little ingenuity might find a foreshadowing of the doctrine of the
conservation of energy, in the saying [110] that all the things are changed into fire and fire
into all things, as gold into goods and goods into gold.

Note 13 (p. 71).

Pope's lines in the Essay on Man(Ep. i. 267-8),

     All are but parts of one stupendous whole,
     Whose body Nature is, and God the soul,"

simply paraphrase Seneca's "quem in hoc mundo locum deus obtinet, hunc in homine animus: quod
est illic materia, id nobis corpus est."--(Ep. lxv. 24); which again is a Latin version of
the old Stoical doctrine, [Greek phrase eis apan tou kosou meros diekei o nous, kataper aph
emon e psuche].

So far as the testimony for the universality of what ordinary people call "evil" goes, there
is nothing better than the writings of the Stoics themselves. They might serve, as a storehouse
for the epigrams of the ultra-pessimists. Heracleitus (circa 500 B.C.) says just as hard things
about ordinary humanity as his disciples centuries later; and there really seems no need to
seek for the causes of this dark view of life in the circumstances of the time of Alexander's
successors or of the early Emperors of Rome. To the man with an ethical ideal, the world, including
himself, will always seem full of evil.

Note 14 (P. 73).

I use the well-known phrase, but decline responsibility for the libel upon Epicurus, whose
doctrines [111] were far less compatible with existence in a style than those of the Cynics.
If it were steadily borne in mind that the conception of the "flesh" as the source of evil,
and the great saying "Initium est salutis notitia peccati," are the property of Epicurus, fewer
illusions about Epicureanism would pass muster for accepted truth.

Note 15 (P. 75).

The Stoics said that man was a [Greek phrase zoon logikon politikon philallelon], or a rational,
a political, and an altruistic or philanthropic animal. In their view, his higher nature tended
to develop in these three directions, as a plant tends to grow up into its typical form. Since,
without the introduction of any consideration of pleasure or pain, whatever thwarted the realization
of its type by the plant might be said to be bad, and whatever helped it good; so virtue, in
the Stoical sense, as the conduct which tended to the attainment of the rational, political,
and philanthropic ideal, was good in itself, and irrespectively of its emotional concomitants.

Man is an "animal sociale communi bono genitum." The safety of society depends upon practical
recognition of the fact. "Salva autem esse societas nisi custodia et amore partium non possit,"
says Seneca. (De. Ira, ii. 31.)

Note 16 (P. 75).

The importance of the physical doctrine of the Stoics lies in its clear recognition of the
universality [112] of the law of causation, with its corollary, the order of nature: the exact
form of that order is an altogether secondary consideration.

Many ingenious persons now appear to consider that the incompatibility of pantheism, of materialism,
and of any doubt about the immortality oxf the soul, with religion and morality, is to be held
as an axiomatic truth. I confess that I have a certain difficulty in accepting this dogma.
For the Stoics were notoriously materialists and pantheists of the most extreme character;
and while no strict Stoic believed in the eternal duration of the individual soul, some even
denied its persistence after death. Yet it is equally certain that of all gentile philosophies,
Stoicism exhibits the highest ethical development, is animated by the most religious spirit,
and has exerted the profoundest influence upon the moral and religious development not merely
of the best men among the Romans, but among the moderns down to our own day.

Seneca was claimed as a Christian and placed among the saints by the fathers of the early Christian
Church; and the genuineness of a correspondence between him and the apostle Paul has been hotly
maintained in our own time, by orthodox writers. That the letters, as we possess them, are
worthless forgeries is obvious; and writers as wide apart as Baur and Lightfoot agree that
the whole story is devoid of foundation.

The dissertation of the late Bishop of Durham (Epistle to the Philippians) is particularly
worthy of study, apart from this question, on account of [113] evidence which it supplies of
the numerous similarities of thought between Seneca and the writer of the Pauline epistles.
When it is remembered that the writer of the Acts puts a quotation from Aratus, or Cleanthes,
into the mouth of the apostle; and that Tarsus was a great seat of philosophical and especially
stoical learning (Chrysippus himself was a native of the adjacent town of Soli), there is no
difficulty in understanding the origin of these resemblances. See, on this subject, Sir Alexander
Grant's dissertation in his edition of The Ethics of Aristotle (where there is an interesting
reference to the stoical character of Bishop Butler's ethics), the concluding pages of Dr.
Weygoldt's instructive little work Die Philosophie der Stoa, and Aubertin's Seneque et Saint Paul.

It is surprising that a writer of Dr. Lightfoot's stamp should speak of Stoicism as a philosophy
of "despair." Surely, rather, it was a philosophy of men who, having cast off all illusions,
and the childishness of despair among them, were minded to endure in patience whatever conditions
the cosmic process might create, so long as those conditions were compatible with the progress
towards virtue, which alone, for them, conferred a worthy object on existence. There is no
note of despair in the stoical declaration that the perfected "wise man" is the equal of Zeus
in everything but the duration of his existence. And, in my judgment, there is as little pride
about it, often as it serves for the text of discourses on stoical arrogance. Grant the stoical
postulate that there is no good except virtue; grant that [114] the perfected wise man is altogether
virtuous, in consequence of being guided in all things by the reason, which is an effluence
of Zeus, and there seems no escape from the stoical conclusion.

Note 17 (p. 76).

Our "Apathy" carries such a different set of connotations from its Greek original that I have
ventured on using the latter as a technical term.

Note 18 (P. 77).

Many of the stoical philosophers recommended their disciples to take an active share in public
affairs; and in the Roman world, for several centuries, the best public men were strongly inclined
to Stoicism. Nevertheless, the logical tendency of Stoicism seems to me to be fulfilled only
in such men as Diogenes and Epictetus.

Note 19 (P. 80).

"Criticisms on the Origin of Species," 1864. Collected Essays, vol. ii. p.  91.[1894.]

Note 20 (P. 81).

Of course, strictly speaking, social life, and the ethical process in virtue of which it advances
towards perfection, Are part and parcel of the general process of evolution, just as the gregarious
habit of in [115] numerable plants and animals, which has been of immense advantage to them,
is so. A hive of bees is an organic polity, a society in which the part played by each member
is determined by organic necessities. Queens, workers, and drones are, so to speak, castes,
divided from one another by marked physical barriers. Among birds and mammals, societies are
formed, of which the bond in many cases seems to be purely psychological; that is to say, it
appears to depend upon the liking of the individuals for one another's company. The tendency
of individuals to over self-assertion is kept down by fighting.  Even in these rudimentary
forms of society, love and fear come into play, and enforce a greater or less renunciation
of self-will. To this extent the general cosmic process begins to be checked by a rudimentary
ethical process, which is, strictly speaking, part of the former, just as the "governor" in
a steam-engine is part of the mechanism of the engine.

Note 21 (p. 82).

See "Government: Anarchy or Regimentation," Collected Essays, vol. i. pp.  413-418. It is this
form of political philosophy to which I conceive the epithet of "reasoned savagery" to be strictly
applicable.[1894.]

Note 22 (p. 83).

"L'homme n'est qu'un roseau, le plus faible de la nature, mais c'est un roseau pensant. Il
ne faut [116] pas que l'univers entier s'arme pour l'ecraser. Une vapour, une goutte d'eau,
suffit pour le tuer. Mais quand l'univers l'ecraserait, l'homme serait encore plus noble que
ce qui le tue, parce qu'il sait qu'il muert; et l'avantage que l'univers a sur lui, l'univers
n'en sait rien."--Pensees de Pascal.

Note 23 (p. 85).

The use of the word "Nature" here may be criticised. Yet the manifestation of the natural tendencies
of men is so profoundly modified by training that it is hardly too strong. Consider the suppression
of the sexual instinct between near relations.

Note 24 (p. 86).

A great proportion of poetry is addressed by the young to the young; only the great masters
of the art are capable of divining, or think it worth while to enter into, the feelings of
retrospective age. The two great poets whom we have so lately lost, Tennyson and Browning,
have done this, each in his own inimitable way; the one in the Ulysses, from which I have borrowed;
the other in that wonderful fragment "Childe Roland to the dark Tower came."

[147]

(Note: Section III came from a different source than the other sections and thus does not have
page numbers.)

				 III.

       CAPITAL--THE MOTHER OF LABOUR

    AN ECONOMICAL PROBLEM DISCUSSED FROM A
        PHYSIOLOGICAL POINT OF VIEW

                [1890.]

THE first act of a new-born child is to draw a deep breath. In fact, it will never draw a deeper,
inasmuch as the passages and chambers of the lungs, once distended with air, do not empty themselves
again; it is only a fraction of their contents which passes in and out with the flow and the
ebb of the respiratory tide. Mechanically, this act of drawing breath, or inspiration, is of
the same nature as that by which the handles of a bellows are separated, in order to fill the
bellows with air; and, in like manner, it involves that expenditure of energy which we call
exertion, or work, or labour. It is, therefore, no mere metaphor to say that man is destined
to a life of toil: the work of respiration which began with his first breath ends only with
his last; nor does one born in the purple get off with a lighter task than the child who first
sees light under a hedge.

[148] How is it that the new-born infant is enabled to perform this first instalment of the
sentence of life-long labour which no man may escape?  Whatever else a child may be, in respect
of this particular question, it is a complicated piece of mechanism, built up out of materials
supplied by its mother; and in the course of such building-up, provided with a set of motors--the
muscles. Each of these muscles contains a stock of substance capable of yielding energy under
certain conditions, one of which is a change of state in the nerve fibres connected with it.
The powder in a loaded gun is such another stock of substance capable of yielding energy in
consequence of a change of state in the mechanism of the lock, which intervenes between the
finger of the man who pulls the trigger and the cartridge. If that change is brought about,
the potential energy of the powder passes suddenly into actual energy, and does the work of
propelling the bullet. The powder, therefore, may be appropriately called work-stuff, not only
because it is stuff which is easily made to yield work in the physical sense, but because a
good deal of work in the economical sense has contributed to its production. Labour was necessary
to collect, transport, and purify the raw sulphur and saltpetre; to cut wood and convert it
into powdered charcoal; to mix these ingredients in the right proportions; to give the mixture
the proper grain, and so on. The powder [149] once formed part of the stock, or capital, of
a powder-maker: and it is not only certain natural bodies which are collected and stored in
the gunpowder, but the labour bestowed on the operations mentioned may be figuratively said
to be incorporated in it.

In principle, the work-stuff stored in the muscles of the new-born child is comparable to that
stored in the gun-barrel. The infant is launched into altogether new surroundings; and these
operate through the mechanism of the nervous machinery, with the result that the potential
energy of some of the work-stuff in the muscles which bring about inspiration is suddenly converted
into actual energy; and this, operating through the mechanism of the respiratory apparatus,
gives rise to an act of inspiration. As the bullet is propelled by the "going off" of the powder,
as it might be said that the ribs are raised and the midriff depressed by the "going off" of
certain portions of muscular work-stuff. This work-stuff is part of a stock or capital of that
commodity stored up in the child's organism before birth, at the expense of the mother; and
the mother has made good her expenditure by drawing upon the capital of food-stuffs which furnished
her daily maintenance.

Under these circumstances, it does not appear to me to be open to doubt that the primary act
of outward labour in the series which necessarily accompany [150] the life of man is dependent
upon the pre-existence of a stock of material which is not only of use to him, but which is
disposed in such a manner as to be utilisable with facility. And I further imagine that the
propriety of the application of the term 'capital' to this stock of useful substance cannot
be justly called in question; inasmuch as it is easy to prove that the essential constituents
of the work-stuff accumulated in the child's muscles have merely been transferred from the
store of food-stuffs, which everybody admits to be capital, by means of the maternal organism
to that of the child, in which they are again deposited to await use. Every subsequent act
of labour, in like manner, involves an equivalent consumption of the child's store of work-stuff--its
vital capital; and one of the main objects of the process of breathing is to get rid of some
of the effects of that consumption. It follows, then, that, even if no other than the respiratory
work were going on in the organism, the capital of work-stuff, which the child brought with
it into the world, must sooner or later be used up, and the movements of breathing must come
to an end; just as the see-saw of the piston of a steam-engine stops when the coal in the fireplace
has burnt away.

Milk, however, is a stock of materials which essentially consists of savings from the food-stuffs
supplied to the mother. And these savings are [151] in such a physical and chemical condition
that the organism of the child can easily convert them into work-stuff. That is to say, by
borrowing directly from the vital capital of the mother, indirectly from the store in the natural
bodies accessible to her, it can make good the loss of its own. The operation of borrowing,
however, involves further work; that is, the labour of sucking, which is a mechanical operation
of much the same nature as breathing. The child thus pays for the capital it borrows in labour;
but as the value in work-stuff of the milk obtained is very far greater than the value of that
labour, estimated by the consumption of work-stuff it involves, the operation yields a large
profit to the infant. The overplus of food-stuff suffices to increase the child's capital of
work-stuff; and to supply not only the materials for the enlargement of the "buildings and
machinery" which is expressed by the child's growth, but also the energy required to put all
these materials together, and to carry them to their proper places. Thus, throughout the years
of infancy, and so long thereafter as the youth or man is not thrown upon his own resources,
he lives by consuming the vital capital provided by others. To use a terminology which is more
common than appropriate, whatever work he performs (and he does a good deal, if only in mere
locomotion) is unproductive.

[152] Let us now suppose the child come to man's estate in the condition of a wandering savage,
dependent for his food upon what he can pick up or catch, after the fashion of the Australian
aborigines. It is plain that the place of mother, as the supplier of vital capital, is now
taken by the fruits, seeds, and roots of plants and by various kinds of animals. It is they
alone which contain stocks of those substances which can be converted within the man's organism
into work-stuff; and of the other matters, except air and water, required to supply the constant
consumption of his capital and to keep his organic machinery going. In no way does the savage
contribute to the production of these substances. Whatever labour he bestows upon such vegetable
and animal bodies, on the contrary, is devoted to their destruction; and it is a mere matter
of accident whether a little labour yields him a great deal--as in the case, for example, of
a stranded whale; or whether much labour yields next to nothing--as in times of long-continued
drought. The savage, like the child, borrows the capital he needs, and, at any rate, intentionally,
does nothing towards repayment; it would plainly be an improper use of the word "produce" to
say that his labour in hunting for the roots, or the fruits, or the eggs, or the grubs and
snakes, which he finds and eats, "pro duces" or contributes to "produce" them. The same thing
is true of more advanced tribes, who [153] are still merely hunters, such as the Esquimaux.
They may expend more labour and skill; but it is spent in destruction.

When we pass from these to men who lead a purely pastoral life, like the South American Gauchos,
or some Asiatic nomads, there is an important change. Let us suppose the owner of a flock of
sheep to live on the milk, cheese, and flesh which they yield. It is obvious that the flock
stands to him in the economic relation of the mother to the child, inasmuch as it supplies
him with food-stuffs competent to make good the daily and hourly losses of his capital of workstuff.
If we imagine our sheep-owner to have access to extensive pastures and to be troubled neither
by predacious animals nor by rival shepherds, the performance of his pastoral functions will
hardly involve the expenditure of any more labour than is needful to provide him with the exercise
required to maintain health. And this is true, even if we take into account the trouble originally
devoted to the domestication of the sheep. It surely would be a most singular pretension for
the shepherd to talk of the flock as the "produce" of his labour in any but a very limited
sense. In truth, his labour would have been a mere accessory of production of very little consequence.
Under the circumstances supposed, a ram and some ewes, left to themselves for a few years,
would probably generate as large a flock; [154] and the superadded labour of the shepherd would
have little more effect upon their production than upon that of the blackberries on the bushes
about the pastures. For the most part the increment would be thoroughly unearned; and, if it
is a rule of absolute political ethics that owners have no claim upon "betterment" brought
about independently of their own labour, then the shepherd would have no claim to at least
nine-tenths of the increase of the flock.

But if the shepherd has no real claim to the title of "producer," who has?  Are the rams and
ewes the true "producers"? Certainly their title is better if, borrowing from the old terminology
of chemistry, they only claim to be regarded as the "proximate principles" of production. And
yet, if strict justice is to be dispensed, even they are to be regarded rather as collectors
and distributors than as "producers." For all that they really do is to collect, slightly modify,
and render easily accessible, the vital capital which already exists in the green herbs on
which they feed, but in such a form as to be practically out of the reach of man.

Thus, from an economic point of view, the sheep are more comparable to confectioners than to
producers. The usefulness of biscuit lies in the raw flour of which it is made; but raw flour
does not answer as an article of human diet, and biscuit does. So the usefulness of mutton
lies mainly in certain chemical compounds which it [155] contains: the sheep gets them out
of grass; we cannot live on grass, but we can on mutton.

Now, herbaceous and all other green plants stand alone among terrestrial natural bodies, in
so far as, under the influence of light, they possess the power to build up, out of the carbonic
acid gas in the atmosphere, water and certain nitrogenous and mineral salts, those substances
which in the animal organism are utilised as work-stuff. They are the chief and, for practical
purposes, the sole producers of that vital capital which we have seen to be the necessary antecedent
of every act of labour. Every green plant is a laboratory in which, so long as the sun shines
upon it, materials furnished by the mineral world, gases, water, saline compounds, are worked
up into those foodstuffs without which animal life cannot be carried on. And since, up to the
present time, synthetic chemistry has not advanced so far as to achieve this feat, the green
plant may be said to be the only living worker whose labour directly results in the production
of that vital capital which is the necessary antecedent of human labour.* Nor is this statement
a paradox involving perpetual motion, because the energy by which the plant does its work is
supplied by the sun--the primordial capitalist so far as we are concerned. But [156] it cannot
be too strongly impressed upon the mind that sunshine, air, water, the best soil that is to
be found on the surface of the earth, might co-exist; yet without plants, there is no known
agency competent to generate the so-called "protein compounds," by which alone animal life
can be permanently supported. And not only are plants thus essential; but, in respect of particular
kinds of animals, they must be plants of a particular nature. If there were no terrestrial
green plants but, say, cypresses and mosses, pastoral and agricultural life would be alike
impossible; indeed, it is difficult to imagine the possibility of the existence of any large
animal, as the labour required to get at a sufficiency of the store of food-stuffs, contained
in such plants as these, could hardly extract from them an equivalent for the waste involved
in that expenditure of work.

    * It remains to be seen whether the plants which have no
    chlorophyll, and flourish in darkness, such as the Fungi, can
    live upon purely mineral food.

We are compact of dust and air; from that we set out, and to that complexion must we come at
last. The plant either directly, or by some animal intermediary, lends us the capital which
enables us to carry on the business of life, as we flit through the upper world, from the one
term of our journey to the other. Popularly, no doubt, it is permissible to speak of the soil
as a "producer," just as we may talk of the daily movement of the sun.  But, as I have elsewhere
remarked, propositions which are to bear any deductive strain that may be put upon them must
run the risk of [157] seeming pedantic, rather than that of being inaccurate. And the statement
that land, in the sense of cultivable soil, is a producer, or even one of the essentials of
economic production, is anything but accurate. The process of water-culture, in which a plant
is not "planted" in any soil, but is merely supported in water containing in solution the mineral
ingredients essential to that plant, is now thoroughly understood; and, if it were worth while,
a crop yielding abundant food-stuffs could be raised on an acre of fresh water, no less than
on an acre of dry land. In the Arctic regions, again, land has nothing to do with "production"
in the social economy of the Esquimaux, who live on seals and other marine animals; and might,
like Proteus, shepherd the flocks of Poseidon if they had a mind for pastoral life. But the
seals and the bears are dependent on other inhabitants of the sea, until, somewhere in the
series, we come to the minute green plants which float in the ocean, and are the real "producers"
by which the whole of its vast animal population is supported.* Thus, when we find set forth
as an "absolute" [158] truth the statement that the essential factors in economic production
are land, capital and labour--when this is offered as an axiom whence all sorts of other important
truths may be deduced--it is needful to remember that the assertion is true only with a qualification.
Undoubtedly "vital capital" is essential; for, as we have seen, no human work can be done unless
it exists, not even that internal work of the body which is necessary to passive life. But,
with respect to labour (that is, human labour) I hope to have left no doubt on the reader's
mind that, in regard to production, the importance of human labour may be so small as to be
almost a vanishing quantity. Moreover, it is certain that there is no approximation to a fixed
ratio between the expenditure of labour and the production of that vital capital which is the
foundation of all wealth. For, suppose that we introduce into our suppositious pastoral paradise
beasts of prey and rival shepherds, the amount of labour thrown upon the sheep-owner may increase
almost indefinitely, and its importance as a condition of production may be enormously augmented,
while the quantity of produce remains stationary. Compare for a moment the unimportance of
the shepherd's labour, under the circumstances first defined, with its indispensability in
countries in which the water for the sheep has to be drawn from deep [159] wells, or in which
the flock has to be defended from wolves or from human depredators. As to land, it has been
shown that, except as affording mere room and standing ground, the importance of land, great
as it may be, is secondary. The one thing needful for economic production is the green plant,
as the sole producer of vital capital from natural inorganic bodies. Men might exist without
labour (in the ordinary sense) and without land; without plants they must inevitably perish.

    * In some remarkable passages of the Botany of Sir James Ross's
    Antarctic voyage, which took place half a century ago, Sir
    Joseph Hooker demonstrated the dependence of the animal life of
    the sea upon the minute, indeed microscopic, plants which float
    in it: a marvellous example of what may be done by
    water-culture. One might indulge in dreams of cultivating and
    improving diatoms, until the domesticated bore the same
    relation to the wild forms, as cauliflowers to the primitive
    Brassica oleracea, without passing beyond the limits of fair
    scientific speculation.

That which is true of the purely pastoral condition is a fortiori true of the purely agricultural*
condition, in which the existence of the cultivator is directly dependent on the production
of vital capital by the plants which he cultivates. Here, again, the condition precedent of
the work of each year is vital capital. Suppose that a man lives exclusively upon the plants
which he cultivates. It is obvious that he must have food-stuffs to live upon, while he prepares
the soil for sowing and throughout the period which elapses between this and harvest. These
food-stuffs must be yielded by the stock remaining over from former crops. The result is the
same as before--the pre-existence of vital capital is the necessary antecedent of labour. Moreover,
the amount of labour which contributes, as an accessory condition, to the production [160]
of the crop varies as widely in the case of plant-raising as in that of cattle-raising. With
favourable soil, climate and other conditions, it may be very small, with unfavourable, very
great, for the same revenue or yield of food-stuffs.

    * It is a pity that we have no word that signifies plant-culture
    exclusively. But for the present purpose I may restrict
    agriculture to that sense.

Thus, I do not think it is possible to dispute the following proposition:  the existence of
any man, or of any number of men, whether organised into a polity or not, depends on the production
of foodstuffs (that is, vital capital) readily accessible to man, either directly or indirectly,
by plants. But it follows that the number of men who can exist, say for one year, on any given
area of land, taken by itself, depends upon the quantity of food-stuffs produced by such plants
growing on the area in one year. If a is that quantity, and b the minimum of food-stuffs required
for each man, A/B=N, the maximum number of men who can exist on the area. Now the amount of
production (a) is limited by the extent of area occupied; by the quantity of sunshine which
falls upon the area; by the range and distribution of temperature; by the force of the winds;
by the supply of water; by the composition and the physical characters of the soil; by animal
and vegetable competitors and destroyers. The labour of man neither does, nor can, produce
vital capital; all that it can do is to modify, favourably or unfavourably, the conditions
of its production. The most important of these-- [161] namely, sunshine, range of daily and
nightly temperature, wind--are practically out of men's reach.* On the other hand, the supply
of water, the physical and chemical qualities of the soil, and the influences of competitors
and destroyers, can often, though by no means always, be largely affected by labour and skill.
And there is no harm in calling the effect of such labour "production," if it is clearly understood
that "production" in this sense is a very different thing from the "production" of food-stuffs
by a plant.

    * I do not forget electric lighting, greenhouses and hothouses,
    and the various modes of affording shelter against violent
    winds: but in regard to production of food-stuffs on the large
    scale they may be neglected. Even if synthetic chemistry should
    effect the construction of proteids, the Laborato ry will
    hardly enter into competition with the Farm within any time
    which the present generation need trouble itself about.

We have been dealing hitherto with suppositions the materials of which are furnished by everyday
experience, not with mere a priori assumptions. Our hypothetical solitary shepherd with his
flock, or the solitary farmer with his grain field, are mere bits of such experience, cut out,
as it were, for easy study. Still borrowing from daily experience, let us suppose that either
sheep-owner or farmer, for any reason that may be imagined, desires the help of one or more
other men; and that, in exchange for their labour, he offers so many sheep, or quarts of milk,
or pounds of [162] cheese, or so many measures of grain, for a year's service. I fail to discover
any a priori "rights of labour" in virtue of which these men may insist on being employed,
if they are not wanted. But, on the other hand, I think it is clear that there is only one
condition upon which the persons to whom the offer of these "wages" is made can accept it;
and that is that the things offered in exchange for a year's work shall contain at least as
much vital capital as a man uses up in doing the year's work. For no rational man could knowingly
and willingly accept conditions which necessarily involve starvation. Therefore there is an
irreducible minimum of wages; it is such an amount of vital capital as suffices to replace
the inevitable consumption of the person hired. Now, surely, it is beyond a doubt that these
wages, whether at or above the irreducible minimum, are paid out of the capital disposable
after the wants of the owner of the flock or of the crop of grain are satisfied; and, from
what has been said already, it follows that there is a limit to the number of men, whether
hired, or brought in any other way, who can be maintained by the sheep owner or landowner out
of his own resources. Since no amount of labour can produce an ounce of foodstuff beyond the
maximum producible by a limited number of plants, under the most favourable circumstances in
regard to those conditions which are not affected by labour, it follows [163] that, if the
number of men to be fed increases indefinitely, a time must come when some will have to starve.
That is the essence of the so-called Malthusian doctrine; and it is a truth which, to my mind,
is as plain as the general proposition that a quantity which constantly increases will, some
time or other, exceed any greater quantity the amount of which is fixed.

The foregoing considerations leave no doubt about the fundamental condition of the existence
of any polity, or organised society of men, either in a purely pastoral or purely agricultural
state, or in any mixture of both states. It must possess a store of vital capital to start
with, and the means of repairing the consumption of that capital which takes place as a consequence
of the work of the members of the society. And, if the polity occupies a completely isolated
area of the earth's surface, the numerical strength of that polity can never exceed the quotient
of the maximum quantity of food-stuffs producible by the green plants on that area, in each
year, divided by the quantity necessary for the maintenance of each person during the year.
But, there is a third mode of existence possible to a polity; it may, conceivably, be neither
purely pastoral nor purely agricultural, but purely manufacturing. Let us suppose three islands,
like Gran Canaria, Teneriffe and Lanzerote, in the Canaries, to be quite cut off from the rest
of the world. Let Gran Canaria be [164] inhabited by grain-raisers, Teneriffe by cattle-breeders;
while the population of Lanzerote (which we may suppose to be utterly barren) consists of carpenters,
woollen manufacturers, and shoemakers. Then the facts of daily experience teach us that the
people of Lanzerote could never have existed unless they came to the island provided with a
stock of food-stuffs; and that they could not continue to exist, unless that stock, as it was
consumed, was made up by contributions from the vital capital of either Gran Canaria, or Teneriffe,
or both. Moreover, the carpenters of Lanzerote could do nothing, unless they were provided
with wood from the other islands; nor could the wool spinners and weavers or the shoemakers
work without wool and skins from the same sources. The wood and the wool and the skins are,
in fact, the capital without which their work as manufacturers in their respective trades is
impossible--so that the vital and other capital supplied by Gran Canaria and Teneriffe is most
indubitably the necessary antecedent of the industrial labour of Lanzerote. It is perfectly
true that by the time the wood, the wool, and the skins reached Lanzerote a good deal of labour
in cutting, shearing, skinning, transport, and so on, would have been spent upon them. But
this does not alter the fact that the only "production" which is essential to the existence
of the population of Teneriffe and Gran Canaria is that effected by the [165] green plants
in both islands; and that all the labour spent upon the raw produce useful in manufacture,
directly or indirectly yielded by them--by the inhabitants of these islands and by those of
Lanzerote into the bargain--will not provide one solitary Lanzerotian with a dinner, unless
the Teneriffians and Canariotes happen to want his goods and to be willing to give some of
their vital capital in exchange for them.

Under the circumstances defined, if Teneriffe and Gran Canaria disappeared, or if their inhabitants
ceased to care for carpentry, clothing, or shoes, the people of Lanzerote must starve. But
if they wish to buy, then the Lanzerotians, by "cultivating" the buyers, indirectly favour
the cultivation of the produce of those buyers.

Thus, if the question is asked whether the labour employed in manufacture in Lanzerote is "productive"
or "unproductive" there can be only one reply. If anybody will exchange vital capital, or that
which can be exchanged for vital capital, for Lanzerote goods, it is productive; if not, it
is unproductive.

In the case of the manufacturer, the dependence of labour upon capital is still more intimate
than in that of the herdsman or agriculturist. When the latter are once started they can go
on, without troubling themselves about the existence of any other people. But the manufacturer
depends on pre-existing capital, not only at the [166] beginning, but at the end of his operations.
However great the expenditure of his labour and of his skill, the result, for the purpose of
maintaining his existence, is just the same as if he had done nothing, unless there is a customer
able and willing to exchange food-stuffs for that which his labour and skill have achieved.

There is another point concerning which it is very necessary to have clear ideas. Suppose a
carpenter in Lanzerote to be engaged in making chests of drawers. Let us suppose that a, the
timber, and b, the grain and meat needful for the man's sustenance until he can finish a chest
of drawers, have to be paid for by that chest. Then the capital with which he starts is represented
by a + b. He could not start at all unless he had it; day by day, he must destroy more or less
of the substance and of the general adaptability of a in order to work it up into the special
forms needed to constitute the chest of drawers; and, day by day, he must use up at least so
much of b as will replace his loss of vital capital by the work of that day.  Suppose it takes
the carpenter and his workmen ten days to saw up the timber, to plane the boards, and to give
them the shape and size proper for the various parts of the chest of drawers. And suppose that
he then offers his heap of boards to the advancer of a + b as an equivalent for the wood +
ten days' supply of vital capital? The latter will surely say: "No. [167] I did not ask for
a heap of boards. I asked for a chest of drawers. Up to this time, so far as I am concerned,
you have done nothing and are as much in my debt as ever." And if the carpenter maintained
that he had "virtually" created two-thirds of a chest of drawers, inasmuch as it would take
only five days more to put together the pieces of wood, and that the heap of boards ought to
be accepted as the equivalent of two-thirds of his debt, I am afraid the creditor would regard
him as little better than an impudent swindler. It obviously makes no sort of difference whether
the Canariote or Teneriffian buyer advanced the wood and the food-stuffs, on which the carpenter
had to maintain himself; or whether the carpenter had a stock of both, the consumption of which
must be recouped by the exchange of a chest of drawers for a fresh supply. In the latter case,
it is even less doubtful that, if the carpenter offered his boards to the man who wanted a
chest of drawers, the latter would laugh in his face. And if he took the chest of drawers for
himself, then so much of his vital capital would be sunk in it past recovery. Again, the payment
of goods in a lump, for the chest of drawers, comes to the same thing as the payment of daily
wages for the fifteen days that the carpenter was occupied in making it. If, at the end of
each day, the carpenter chose to say to himself "I have 'virtually' created, by my day's labour,
a fifteenth of what I shall get for the chest [168] of drawers--therefore my wages are the
produce of my day's labour"--there is no great harm in such metaphorical speech, so long as
the poor man does not delude himself into the supposition that it represents the exact truth.
"Virtually" is apt to cover more intellectual sins than "charity" does moral delicts. After
what has been said, it surely must be plain enough that each day's work has involved the consumption
of the carpenter's vital capital, and the fashioning of his timber, at the expense of more
or less consumption of those forms of capital. Whether the a + b to be exchanged for the chest
has been advanced as a loan, or is paid daily or weekly as wages, or, at some later time, as
the price of a finished commodity--the essential element of the transaction, and the only essential
element, is, that it must, at least, effect the replacement of the vital capital consumed.
Neither boards nor chest of drawers are eatable; and, so far from the carpenter having produced
the essential part of his wages by each day's labour, he has merely wasted that labour, unless
somebody who happens to want a chest of drawers offers to exchange vital capital, or something
that can procure it, equivalent to the amount consumed during the process of manufacture.*

    * See the discussion of this subject further on.

That it should be necessary, at this time of day, to set forth such elementary truths as these
may [169] well seem strange; but no one who consults that interesting museum of political delusions,
"Progress and Poverty," some of the treasures of which I have already brought to light, will
doubt the fact, if he bestows proper attention upon the first book of that widely-read work.
At page 15 it is thus written:

"The proposition I shall endeavour to prove is: that wages, instead of being drawn from capital,
are, in reality, drawn from the product of the labour for which they are paid."

Again at page 18:--

"In every case in which labour is exchanged for commodities, production really precedes enjoyment
. . . wages are the earnings--that is to say, the makings--of labour--not the advances of capital."

And the proposition which the author endeavours to disprove is the hitherto generally accepted
doctrine

     ..."that labour is maintained and paid out of existing capital,
        before the product which constitutes the ultimate object is
        secured" (p. 16).

The doctrine respecting the relation of capital and wages, which is thus opposed in "Progress
and Poverty," is that illustrated in the foregoing pages; the truth of which, I conceive, must
be plain to any one who has apprehended the very simple arguments by which I have endeavoured
to [170] demonstrate it. One conclusion or the other must be hopelessly wrong; and, even at
the cost of going once more over some of the ground traversed in this essay and that on "Natural
and Political Rights,"* I propose to show that the error lies with "Progress and Poverty";
in which work, so far as political science is concerned, the poverty is, to my eye, much more
apparent than the progress.

    * Collected Essays, vol. i. pp. 359-382.

To begin at the beginning. The author propounds a definition of wealth:  "Nothing which nature
supplies to man without his labour is wealth" (p. 28).  Wealth consists of "natural substances
or products which have been adapted by human labour to human use or gratification, their value
depending upon the amount of labour which, upon the average, would be required to produce things
of like kind" (p. 27). The following examples of wealth are given:--

     . . . "Buildings, cattle, tools, machinery, agricultural and
           mineral products, manufactured goods, ships, waggons,
           furniture, and the like" (p. 27).

I take it that native metals, coal and brick clay, are "mineral products"; and I quite believe
that they are properly termed "wealth." But when a seam of coal crops out at the surface, and
lumps of coal are to be had for the picking up; or when native copper lies about in nuggets,
or [171] when brick clay forms a superficial stratum, it appears to me that these things are
supplied to, nay almost thrust upon, man without his labour. According to the definition, therefore,
they are not "wealth." According to the enumeration, however, they are "wealth": a tolerably
fair specimen of a contradiction in terms. Or does "Progress and Poverty" really suggest that
a coal seam which crops out at the surface is not wealth; but that if somebody breaks off a
piece and carries it away, the bestowal of this amount of labour upon that particular lump
makes it wealth; while the rest remains "not wealth"? The notion that the value of a thing
bears any necessary relation to the amount of labour (average or otherwise) bestowed upon it,
is a fallacy which needs no further refutation than it has already received.  The average amount
of labour bestowed upon warming-pans confers no value upon them in the eyes of a Gold-Coast
negro; nor would an Esquimaux give a slice of blubber for the most elaborate of ice-machines.

So much for the doctrine of "Progress and Poverty" touching the nature of wealth. Let us now
consider its teachings respecting capital as wealth or a part of wealth. Adam Smith's definition
"that part of a man's stock which he expects to yield him a revenue is called his capital"
is quoted with approval (p. 32); elsewhere capital is said to be that part of wealth "which
[172] is devoted to the aid of production" (p. 28); and yet again it is said to be

     . . . "wealth in course of exchange,* understanding exchange to
           include, not merely the passing from hand to hand, but
           also such transmutations as occur when the reproductive
           or transforming forces of nature are utilised for the
           increase of wealth" (p. 32).

    * The italics are the author's.

But if too much pondering over the possible senses and scope of these definitions should weary
the reader, he will be relieved by the following acknowledgment:--

     . . . "Nor is the definition of capital I have suggested of
           any importance" (p. 33).

The author informs us, in fact, that he is "not writing a text-book," thereby intimating his
opinion that it is less important to be clear and accurate when you are trying to bring about
a political revolution than when a merely academic interest attaches to the subject treated.
But he is not busy about anything so serious as a textbook: no, he "is only attempting to discover
the laws which control a great social problem"--a mode of expression which indicates perhaps
the high-water mark of intellectual muddlement. I have heard, in my time, of "laws" which control
other "laws"; but this is the first occasion on which "laws" which "control a problem" have
come under my notice. Even the disquisitions "of [173] those flabby writers who have burdened
the press and darkened counsel by numerous volumes which are dubbed political economy" (p.
28) could hardly furnish their critics with a finer specimen of that which a hero of the "Dunciad,"
by the one flash of genius recorded of him, called "clotted nonsense."

Doubtless it is a sign of grace that the author of these definitions should attach no importance
to any of them; but since, unfortunately, his whole argument turns upon the tacit assumption
that they are important, I may not pass them over so lightly. The third I give up. Why anything
should be capital when it is "in course of exchange," and not be capital under other circumstances,
passes my understanding. We are told that "that part of a farmer's crop held for sale or for
seed, or to feed his help, in part payment of wages, would be accounted capital; that held
for the care of his family would not be" (p. 31). But I fail to discover any ground of reason
or authority for the doctrine that it is only when a crop is about to be sold or sown, or given
as wages, that it may be called capital. On the contrary, whether we consider custom or reason,
so much of it as is stored away in ricks and barns during harvest, and remains there to be
used in any of these ways months or years afterwards, is customarily and rightly termed capital.
Surely, the meaning of the clumsy phrase that capital is "wealth in the [174] course of exchange"
must be that it is "wealth capable of being exchanged" against labour or anything else. That,
in fact, is the equivalent of the second definition, that capital is "that part of wealth which
is devoted to the aid of production." Obviously, if you possess that for which men will give
labour, you can aid production by means of that labour. And, again, it agrees with the first
definition (borrowed from Adam Smith) that capital is "that part of a man's stock which he
expects to yield him a revenue." For a revenue is both etymologically and in sense a "return."
A man gives his labour in sowing grain, or in tending cattle, because he expects a "return"--a
"revenue"--in the shape of the increase of the grain or of the herd; and also, in the latter
case, in the shape of their labour and manure which "aid the production" of such increase.
The grain and cattle of which he is possessed immediately after harvest is his capital; and
his revenue for the twelvemonth, until the next harvest, is the surplus of grain and cattle
over and above the amount with which he started. This is disposable for any purpose for which
he may desire to use it, leaving him just as well off as he was at the beginning of the year.
Whether the man keeps the surplus grain for sowing more land, and the surplus cattle for occupying
more pasture; whether he exchanges them for other commodities, such as the use of the land
(as rent); or labour (as [175] wages); or whether he feeds himself and his family, in no way
alters their nature as revenue, or affects the fact that this revenue is merely disposable capital.

That (even apart from etymology) cattle are typical examples of capital cannot be denied ("Progress
and Poverty," p. 25); and if we seek for that particular quality of cattle which makes them
"capital," neither has the author of "Progress and Poverty" supplied, nor is any one else very
likely to supply, a better account of the matter than Adam Smith has done. Cattle are "capital"
because they are "stock which yields revenue." That is to say, they afford to their owner a
supply of that which he desires to possess.  And, in this particular case, the "revenue" is
not only desirable, but of supreme importance, inasmuch as it is capable of maintaining human
life. The herd yields a revenue of food-stuffs as milk and meat; a revenue of skins; a revenue
of manure; a revenue of labour; a revenue of exchangeable commodities in the shape of these
things, as well as in that of live cattle.  In each and all of these capacities cattle are
capital; and, conversely, things which possess any or all of these capacities are capital.

Therefore what we find at page 25 of "Progress and Poverty" must be regarded as a welcome lapse
into clearness of apprehension:--

"A fertile field, a rich vein of ore, a falling stream which supplies power, may give the possessor
advantages [176] equivalent to the possession of capital; but to class such things as capital
would be to put an end to the distinction between land and capital."

Just so. But the fatal truth is that these things are capital; and that there really is no
fundamental distinction between land and capital. Is it denied that a fertile field, a rich
vein of ore, or a falling stream, may form part of a man's stock, and that, if they do, they
are capable of yielding revenue? Will not somebody pay a share of the produce in kind, or in
money, for the privilege of cultivating the first royalties for that of working the second;
and a like equivalent for that of erecting a mill on the third? In what sense, then, are these
things less "capital" than the buildings and tools which on page 27 of "Progress and Poverty"
are admitted to be capital? Is it not plain that if these things confer "advantages equivalent
to the possession of capital," and if the "advantage" of capital is nothing but the yielding
of revenue, then the denial that they are capital is merely a roundabout way of self-contradiction?

All this confused talk about capital, however, is lucidity itself compared with the exposition
of the remarkable thesis, "Wages not drawn from capital, but produced by labour," which occupies
the third chapter of "Progress and Poverty."

"If, for instance, I devote my labour to gathering birds' eggs or picking wild berries, the
eggs or berries I thus [177] get are my wages. Surely no one will contend that, in such a case,
wages are drawn from capital. There is no capital in the case" (p. 34).

Nevertheless, those who have followed what has been said in the first part of this essay surely
neither will, nor can, have any hesitation about substantially adopting the challenged contention,
though they may possibly have qualms as to the propriety of the use of the term "wages."* They
will have no difficulty in apprehending the fact that birds' eggs and berries are stores of
foodstuffs, or vital capital; that the man who devotes his labour to getting them does so at
the expense of his personal vital capital; and that, if the eggs and the berries are "wages"
for his work, they are so because they enable him to restore to his organism the vital capital
which he has consumed in doing the work of collection. So that there is really a great deal
of "capital in the case."

    * Not merely on the grounds stated below, but on the strength
    of Mr. George's own definition. Does the gatherer of eggs, or
    berries, produce them by his labour? If so, what do the hens
    and the bushes do?

Our author proceeds:--

"An absolutely naked man, thrown on an island where no human being has before trod, may gather
birds' eggs or pick berries" (p. 34).

No doubt. But those who have followed my argument thus far will be aware that a man's vital
capital does not reside in his clothes; and, therefore, [178] they will probably fail, as completely
as I do, to discover the relevancy of the statement.

Again:--

     . . . Or, if I take a piece of leather and work it up into a
           pair of shoes, the shoes are my wages--the reward of my
           exertion. Surely they are not drawn from capital--either
           my capital or anybody else's capital--but are brought
           into existence by the labour of which they became the
           wages; and, in obtaining this pair of shoes as the wages
           of my labour, capital is not even momentarily lessened
           one iota. For if we call in the idea of capital, my
           capital at the beginning consists of the piece of
           leather, the thread, &c. (p. 34).

It takes away one's breath to have such a concatenation of fallacies administered in the space
of half a paragraph. It does not seem to have occurred to our economical reformer to imagine
whence his "capital at the beginning," the "leather, thread, &c." came. I venture to suppose
that leather to have been originally cattle-skin; and since calves and oxen are not flayed
alive, the existence of the leather implies the lessening of that form of capital by a very
considerable iota. It is, therefore, as sure as anything can be that, in the long run, the
shoes are drawn from that which is capital par excellence; to wit, cattle. It is further beyond
doubt that the operation of tanning must involve loss of capital in the shape of bark, to say
nothing of other losses; and that the use of the awls and knives of the shoemaker involves
loss of capital in the shape of the store of [179] iron; further, the shoemaker has been enabled
to do his work not only by the vital capital expended during the time occupied in making the
pair of shoes, but by that expended from the time of his birth, up to the time that he earned
wages that would keep him alive.

"Progress and Poverty" continues:--

     . . . As my labour goes on, value is steadily added until,
           when my labour results in the finished shoes, I have my
           capital plus the difference in value between the
           material and the shoes. In obtaining this additional
           value--my wages--how is capital, at any time, drawn
           upon? (p, 34).

In return we may inquire, how can any one propound such a question? Capital is drawn upon all
the time. Not only when the shoes are commenced, but while they are being made, and until they
are either used by the shoemaker himself or are purchased by somebody else; that is, exchanged
for a portion of another man's capital. In fact (supposing that the shoemaker does not want
shoes himself), it is the existence of vital capital in the possession of another person and
the willingness of that person to part with more or less of it in exchange for the shoes--it
is these two conditions, alone, which prevent the shoemaker from having consumed his capital
unproductively, just as much as if he had spent his time in chopping up the leather into minute
fragments.

Thus, the examination of the very case selected [180] by the advocate of the doctrine that
labour bestowed upon manufacture, without any intervention of capital, can produce wages, proves
to be a delusion of the first magnitude; even though it be supported by the dictum of Adam
Smith which is quoted in its favour (p. 34)--

     . . . "The produce of labour constitutes the natural recompense
           or wages of labour. In that original state of things which
           precedes both the appropriation of land and the
           accumulation of stock, the whole produce of labour belongs
           to the labourer. He has neither landlord nor master to
           share with him" ("Wealth of Nations," ch. viii).

But the whole of this passage exhibits the influence of the French Physiocrats by whom Adam
Smith was inspired, at their worst; that is to say, when they most completely forsook the ground
of experience for a priori speculation. The confident reference to "that original state of
things" is quite in the manner of the Essai sur l'Inegalie. Now, the state of men before the
"appropriation of land" and the "accumulation of stock" must surely have been that of purely
savage hunters. As, by the supposition, nobody would have possessed land, certainly no man
could have had a landlord; and, if there was no accumulation of stock in a transferable form,
as surely there could be no master, in the sense of hirer. But hirer and hire (that is, wages)
are correlative terms, like mother and child. As "child" implies "mother," so does "hire" or
"wages" imply a [181] "hirer" or "wage-giver." Therefore, when a man in "the original state
of things" gathered fruit or killed game for his own sustenance, the fruit or the game could
be called his "wages" only in a figurative sense; as one sees if the term "hire," which has
a more limited connotation, is substituted for "wage." If not, it must be assumed that the
savage hired himself to get his own dinner; whereby we are led to the tolerably absurd conclusion
that, as in the "state of nature" he was his own employer, the "master" and the labourer, in
that model age, appropriated the produce in equal shares! And if this should be not enough,
it has already been seen that, in the hunting state, man is not even an accessory of production
of vital capital; he merely consumes what nature produces.

According to the author of "Progress and Poverty" political economists have been deluded by
a "fallacy which has entangled some of the most acute minds in a web of their own spinning."

"It is in the use of the term capital in two senses. In the primary proposition that capital
is necessary to the exertion of productive labour, the term "capital" is understood as including
all food, clothing, shelter, &c.; whereas in the deductions finally drawn from it, the term
is used in its common and legitimate meaning of wealth devoted, not to the immediate gratification
of desire, but to the procurement of more wealth--of wealth in the hands of employers as distinguished
from labourers" (p. 40).

[182] I am by no means concerned to defend the political economists who are thus charged with
blundering; but I shall be surprised to learn that any have carried the art of self-entanglement
to the degree of perfection exhibited by this passage. Who has ever imagined that wealth which,
in the hands of an employer, is capital, ceases to be capital if it is in the hands of a labourer?
Suppose a workman to be paid thirty shillings on Saturday evening for six days' labour, that
thirty shillings comes out of the employer's capital, and receives the name of "wages" simply
because it is exchanged for labour. In the workman's pocket, as he goes home, it is a part
of his capital, in exactly the same sense as, half an hour before, it was part of the employer's
capital; he is a capitalist just as much as if he were a Rothschild. Suppose him to be a single
man, whose cooking and household matters are attended to by the people of the house in which
he has a room; then the rent which he pays them out of this capital is, in part, wages for
their labour, and he is, so far, an employer. If he saves one shilling out of his thirty, he
has, to that extent, added to his capital when the next Saturday comes round. And if he puts
his saved shillings week by week into the Savings Bank, the difference between him and the
most bloated of bankers is simply one of degree.

At page 42, we are confidently told that [183] "labourers by receiving wages" cannot lessen
"even temporarily" the "capital of the employer," while at page 44 it is admitted that in certain
cases the capitalist "pays out capital in wages." One would think that the "paying out" of
capital is hardly possible without at least a "temporary" diminution of the capital from which
payment is made. But "Progress and Poverty" changes all that by a little verbal legerdemain:--

     . . . "For where wages are paid before the object of the labour
           is obtained, or is finished--as in agriculture, where
           ploughing and sowing must precede by several months the
           harvesting of the crop; as in the erection of buildings,
           the construction of ships, railroads, canals, &c.--it is
           clear that the owners of the capital paid in wages cannot
           expect an immediate return, but, as the phrase is, must
           "outlay it" or "lie out of it" for a time which sometimes
           amounts to many years. And hence, if first principles are
           not kept in mind, it is easy to jump to the conclusion
           that wages are advanced by capital" (p. 44).

Those who have paid attention to the argument of former parts of this paper may not be able
to understand how, if sound "first principles are kept in mind," any other conclusion can be
reached, whether by jumping, or by any other mode of logical progression. But the first principle
which our author "keeps in mind" possesses just that amount of ambiguity which enables him
to play hocus-pocus with it. It is this; that "the creation of value does not depend upon the
finishing of the product" (p. 44).

[184] There is no doubt that, under certain limitations, this proposition is correct. It is
not true that "labour always adds to capital by its exertion before it takes from capital its
wages" (p. 44), but it is true that it may, and often does, produce that effect.

To take one of the examples given, the construction of a ship. The shaping of the timbers undoubtedly
gives them a value (for a shipbuilder) which they did not possess before. When they are put
together to constitute the framework of the ship, there is a still further addition of value
(for a shipbuilder); and when the outside planking is added, there is another addition (for
a shipbuilder). Suppose everything else about the hull is finished, except the one little item
of caulking the seams, there is no doubt that it has still more value for a shipbuilder. But
for whom else has it any value, except perhaps for a fire-wood merchant? What price will any
one who wants a ship--that is to say, something that will carry a cargo from one port to another--give
for the unfinished vessel which would take water in at every seam and go down in half an hour,
if she were launched? Suppose the shipbuilder's capital to fail before the vessel is caulked,
and that he cannot find another shipbuilder who cares to buy and finish it, what sort of proportion
does the value created by the labour, for which he has paid out of his capital, stand to that
of his advances?

[185] Surely no one will give him one-tenth of the capital disbursed in wages, perhaps not
so much even as the prime cost of the raw materials.  Therefore, though the assertion that
"the creation of value does not depend on the finishing of the product" may be strictly true
under certain circumstances, it need not be and is not always true. And, if it is meant to
imply or suggest that the creation of value in a manufactured article does not depend upon
the finishing of that article, a more serious error could hardly be propounded.

Is there not a prodigious difference in the value of an uncaulked and in that of a finished
ship; between the value of a house in which only the tiles of the roof are wanting and a finished
house; between that of a clock which only lacks the escapement and a finished clock?

As ships, house, and clock, the unfinished articles have no value whatever--that is to say,
no person who wanted to purchase one of these things, for immediate use, would give a farthing
for either. The only value they can have, apart from that of the materials they contain, is
that which they possess for some one who can finish them, or for some one who can make use
of parts of them for the construction of other things. A man might buy an unfinished house
for the sake of the bricks; or he might buy an incomplete clock to use the works for some other
piece of machinery.

Thus, though every stage of the labour [186] bestowed on raw material, for the purpose of giving
rise to a certain product, confers some additional value on that material in the estimation
of those who are engaged in manufacturing that product, the ratio of that accumulated value,
at any stage of the process, to the value of the finished product is extremely inconstant,
and often small; while, to other persons, the value of the unfinished product may be nothing,
or even a minus quantity. A house-timber merchant, for example, might consider that wood which
had been worked into the ribs of a ship was spoiled--that is, had less value than it had as a log.

According to "Progress and Poverty," there was, really, no advance of capital while the great
St. Gothard tunnel was cut. Suppose that, as the Swiss and the Italian halves of the tunnel
approached to within half a kilometre, that half-kilometre had turned out to be composed of
practically impenetrable rock--would anybody have given a centime for the unfinished tunnel?
And if not, how comes it that "the creation of value does not depend on the finishing of the
product"?

I think it may be not too much to say that, of all the political delusions which are current
in this queer world, the very stupidest are those which assume that labour and capital are
necessarily antagonistic; that all capital is produced by labour and therefore, by natural
right, is the property of [187] the labourer; that the possessor of capital is a robber who
preys on the workman and appropriates to himself that which he has had no share in producing.

On the contrary, capital and labour are, necessarily, close allies; capital is never a product
of human labour alone; it exists apart from human labour; it is the necessary antecedent of
labour; and it furnishes the materials on which labour is employed. The only indispensable
form of capital--vital capital--cannot be produced by human labour. All that man can do is
to favour its formation by the real producers. There is no intrinsic relation between the amount
of labour bestowed on an article and its value in exchange. The claim of labour to the total
result of operations which are rendered possible only by capital is simply an a priori iniquity.

[188]

                             V.

              SOCIAL DISEASES AND WORSE REMEDIES

        LETTERS TO THE "TIMES" ON MR. BOOTH'S SCHEME.
           WITH A PREFACE AND INTRODUCTORY ESSAY.

                          [1891]

                          PREFACE

The letters which are here collected together were published in the "Times" in the course of
the months of December, 1890, and January, 1891.

The circumstances which led me to write the first letter are sufficiently set forth in its
opening sentences; and the materials on which I based my criticisms of Mr. Booth's scheme,
in this and in the second letter, were wholly derived from Mr. Booth's book. I had some reason
to know, however, that when anybody allows his sense of duty so far to prevail over his sense
of the blessedness of peace as to write a letter to the "Times," on any subject of public interest,
his reflections, before he has done with the business, will be very like [189] those of Johnny
Gilpin, "who little thought, when he set out, of running such a rig." Such undoubtedly are
mine when I contemplate these twelve documents, and call to mind the distinct addition to the
revenue of the Post Office which must have accrued from the mass of letters and pamphlets which
have been delivered at my door; to say nothing of the unexpected light upon my character, motives,
and doctrines, which has been thrown by some of the "Times'" correspondents, and by no end
of comments elsewhere.

If self-knowledge is the highest aim of man, I ought by this time to have little to learn.
And yet, if I am awake, some of my teachers--unable, perhaps, to control the divine fire of
the poetic imagination which is so closely akin to, if not a part of, the mythopoeic faculty--have
surely dreamed dreams. So far as my humbler and essentially prosaic faculties of observation
and comparison go, plain facts are against them. But, as I may be mistaken, I have thought
it well to prefix to the letters (by way of "Prolegomena") an essay which appeared in the "Nineteenth
Century" for January, 1888, in which the principles that, to my mind, lie at the bottom of
the "social question" are stated. So far as Individualism and Regimental Socialism are concerned,
this paper simply emphasizes and expands the opinions expressed in an address to the members
of the Midland Institute, delivered seventeen years earlier, [190] and still more fully developed
in several essays published in the "Nineteenth Century" in 1889, which I hope, before long,
to republish.*

    * See Collected Essays, vol. i. p. 290 to end; and this volume,
    p. 147.

The fundamental proposition which runs through the writings, which thus extend over a. of twenty
years, is, that the common a priori doctrines and methods of reasoning about political and
social questions are essentially vicious; and that argumentation on this basis leads, with
equal logical force, to two contradictory and extremely mischievous systems, the one that of
Anarchaic Individualism, the other that of despotic or Regimental Socialism. Whether I am right
or wrong, I am at least consistent in opposing both to the best of my ability. Mr. Booth's
system appears to me, and, as I have shown, is regarded by Socialists themselves, to be mere
autocratic Socialism, masked by its theological exterior. That the "fantastic" religious skin
will wear away, and the Socialistic reality it covers will show its real nature, is the expressed
hope of one candid Socialist, and may be fairly conceived to be the unexpressed belief of the
despotic leader of the new Trades Union, who has shown his zeal, if not his discretion, in
championing Mr. Booth's projects. [See Letter VIII.]

Yet another word to commentators upon my letters. There are some who rather chuckle, and [191]
some who sneer, at what they seem to consider the dexterity of an "old controversial hand,"
exhibited by the contrast which I have drawn between the methods of conversion depicted in
the New Testament and those pursued by fanatics of the Salvationist type, whether they be such
as are now exploited by Mr. Booth, or such as those who, from the time of the Anabaptists,
to go no further back, have worked upon similar lines.

Whether such observations were intended to be flattering or sarcastic, I must respectfully
decline to accept the compliment, or to apply the sarcasm to myself. I object to obliquity
of procedure and ambiguity of speech in all shapes. And I confess that I find it difficult
to understand the state of mind which leads any one to suppose, that deep respect for single-minded
devotion to high aims is incompatible with the unhesitating conviction that those aims include
the propagation of doctrines which are devoid of foundation--perhaps even mischievous.

The most degrading feature of the narrower forms of Christianity (of which that professed by
Mr. Booth is a notable example) is their insistence that the noblest virtues, if displayed
by those who reject their pitiable formulae, are, as their pet phrase goes, "splendid sins."
But there is, perhaps, one step lower; and that is that men, who profess freedom of thought,
should fail to see and [192] appreciate that large soul of goodness which often animates even
the fanatical adherents of such tenets. I am sorry for any man who can read the epistles to
the Galatians and the Corinthians without yielding a large meed of admiration to the fervent
humanity of Paul of Tarsus; who can study the lives of Francis of Assisi, or of Catherine of
Siena, without wishing that, for the furtherance of his own ideals, he might be even as they;
or who can contemplate unmoved the steadfast veracity and true heroism which loom through the
fogs of mystical utterance in George Fox. In all these great men and women there lay the root
of the matter; a burning desire to amend the condition of their fellow-men, and to put aside
all other things for that end. If, in spite of all the dogmatic helps or hindrances in which
they were entangled, these people are not to be held in high honour, who are?

I have never expressed a doubt--for I have none--that, when Mr. Booth left the Methodist connection,
and started that organisation of the Salvation Army upon which, comparatively recently, such
ambitious schemes of social reform have been grafted, he may have deserved some share of such
honour. I do not say that, so far as his personal desires and intentions go, he may not still
deserve it. But the correlate of despotic authority is unlimited responsibility. If Mr. Booth
is to take [193] credit for any good that the Army system has effected, he must be prepared
to bear blame for its inherent evils. As it seems to me, that has happened to him which sooner
or later happens to all despots: he has become the slave of his own creation--the prosperity
and glory of the soul-saving machine have become the end, instead of a means, of soul-saving;
and to maintain these at the proper pitch, the "General" is led to do things which the Mr.
Booth of twenty years ago would probably have scorned.

And those who desire, as I most emphatically desire, to be just to Mr. Booth, however badly
they may think of the working of the organization he has founded, will bear in mind that some
astute backers of his probably care little enough for Salvationist religion; and, perhaps,
are not very keen about many of Mr. Booth's projects. I have referred to the rubbing of the
hands of the Socialists over Mr. Booth's success;* but, unless I err greatly, there are politicians
of a certain school to whom it affords still greater satisfaction. Consider what electioneering
agents the captains of the Salvation Army, scattered through all our towns, and directed from
a political "bureau" in London, would make! Think how political adversaries could be harassed
by our local attorney--"tribune of the people," I mean; and how a troublesome man, on the other
side, could be "hunted [194] down" upon any convenient charge, whether true or false, brought
by our Vigilance-familiar!**

    * See Letter VIII.
    ** See Letter II.

I entirely acquit Mr. Booth of any complicity in far-reaching schemes of this kind; but I did
not write idly when, in my first letter, I gave no vague warning of what might grow out of
the organised force, drilled in the habit of unhesitating obedience, which he has created.

[195]

                         INTRODUCTORY ESSAY.

             THE STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE IN HUMAN SOCIETY.

                              [1888].

The vast and varied procession of events, which we call Nature, affords a sublime spectacle
and an inexhaustible wealth of attractive problems to the speculative observer. If we confine
our attention to that aspect which engages the attention of the intellect, nature appears a
beautiful and harmonious whole, the incarnation of a faultless logical process, from certain
premises in the past to an inevitable conclusion in the future. But if it be regarded from
a less elevated, though more human, point of view; if our moral sympathies are allowed to influence
our judgment, and we permit ourselves to criticise our great mother as we criticise one another;
then our verdict, at least so far as sentient nature is concerned, can hardly be so favourable.

In sober truth, to those who have made a study of the phenomena of life as they exhibited by
the higher forms of the animal world, [196] the optimistic dogma, that this is the best of
all possible worlds, will seem little better than a libel upon possibility. It is really only
another instance to be added to the many extant, of the audacity of a priori speculators who,
having created God in their own image, find no difficulty in assuming that the Almighty must
have been actuated by the same motives as themselves. They are quite sure that, had any other
course been practicable, He would no more have made infinite suffering a necessary ingredient
of His handiwork than a respectable philosopher would have done the like.

But even the modified optimism of the time-honoured thesis of physico-theology, that the sentient
world is, on the whole, regulated by principles of benevolence, does but ill stand the test
of impartial confrontation with the facts of the case. No doubt it is quite true that sentient
nature affords hosts of examples of subtle contrivances directed towards the production of
pleasure or the avoidance of pain; and it may be proper to say that these are evidences of
benevolence. But if so, why is it not equally proper to say of the equally numerous arrangements,
the no less necessary result of which is the production of pain, that they are evidences of
malevolence?

If a vast amount of that which, in a piece of human workmanship, we should call skill, is [197]
visible in those parts of the organization of a deer to which it owes its ability to escape
from beasts of prey, there is at least equal skill displayed in that bodily mechanism of the
wolf which enables him to track, and sooner or later to bring down, the deer. Viewed under
the dry light of science, deer and wolf are alike admirable; and, if both were non-sentient
automata, there would be nothing to qualify our admiration of the action of the one on the
other. But the fact that the deer suffers, while the wolf inflicts suffering, engages our moral
sympathies. We should call men like the deer innocent and good, men such as the wolf malignant
and bad; we should call those who defended the deer and aided him to escape brave and compassionate,
and those who helped the wolf in his bloody work base and cruel. Surely, if we transfer these
judgments to nature outside the world of man at all, we must do so impartially. In that case,
the goodness of the right hand which helps the deer, and the wickedness of the left hand which
eggs on the wolf, will neutralize one another: and the course of nature will appear to be neither
moral nor immoral, but non-moral.

This conclusion is thrust upon us by analogous facts in every part of the sentient world; yet,
inasmuch as it not only jars upon prevalent prejudices, but arouses the natural dislike to
that which is painful, much ingenuity has been exercised in devising an escape from it.

From the theological side, we are told that [198] this is a state of probation, and that the
seeming injustices and immoralities of nature will be compensated by and by. But how this compensation
is to be effected, in the case of the great majority of sentient things, is not clear. I apprehend
that no one is seriously prepared to maintain that the ghosts of all the myriads of generations
of herbivorous animals which lived during the millions of years of the earth's duration, before
the appearance of man, and which have all that time been tormented and devoured by carnivores,
are to be compensated by a perennial existence in clover; while the ghosts of carnivores are
to go to some kennel where there is neither a pan of water nor a bone with any meat on it.
Besides, from the point of view of morality, the last stage of things would be worse than the
first. For the carnivores, however brutal and sanguinary, have only done that which, if there
is any evidence of contrivance in the world, they were expressly constructed to do.  Moreover,
carnivores and herbivores alike have been subject to all the miseries incidental to old age,
disease, and over-multiplication, and both might well put in a claim for "compensation" on
this score.

On the evolutionist side, on the other hand, we are told to take comfort from the reflection
that the terrible struggle for existence tends to final good, and that the suffering of the
ancestor is paid for by the increased perfection of the progeny. There would be something in
this argument if, in [199] Chinese fashion, the present generation could pay its debts to its
ancestors; otherwise it is not clear what compensation the Eohippus gets for his sorrows in
the fact that, some millions of years afterwards, one of his descendants wins the Derby. And,
again, it is an error to imagine that evolution signifies a constant tendency to increased
perfection. That process undoubtedly involves a constant remodelling of the organism in adaptation
to new conditions; but it depends on the nature of those conditions whether the direction of
the modifications effected shall be upward or downward. Retrogressive is as practicable as
progressive metamorphosis. If what the physical philosophers tell us, that our globe has been
in a state of fusion, and, like the sun, is gradually cooling down, is true; then the time
must come when evolution will mean adaptation to an universal winter, and all forms of life
will die out, except such low and simple organisms as the Diatom of the arctic and antarctic
ice and the Protococcus of the red snow. If our globe is proceeding from a condition in which
it was too hot to support any but the lowest living thing to a condition in which it will be
too cold to permit of the existence of any others, the course of life upon its surface must
describe a trajectory like that of a ball fired from a mortar; and the sinking half of that
course is as much a part of the general process of evolution as the rising.

From the point of view of the moralist the [200] animal world is on about the same level as
a gladiator's show. The creatures are fairly well treated, and set to fight--whereby the strongest,
the swiftest, and the cunningest live to fight another day. The spectator has no need to turn
his thumbs down, as no quarter is given. He must admit that the skill and training displayed
are wonderful. But he must shut his eyes if he would not see that more or less enduring suffering
is the meed of both vanquished and victor. And since the great game is going on in every corner
of the world, thousands of times a minute; since, were our ears sharp enough, we need not descend
to the gates of hell to hear--

    . . . sospiri, pianti, ed alti guai.
    Voci alte e floche, e suon di man con elle

--it seems to follow that, if the world is governed by benevolence, it must be a different
sort of benevolence from that of John Howard.

But the old Babylonians wisely symbolized Nature by their great goddess Istar, who combined
the attributes of Aphrodite with those of Ares. Her terrible aspect is not to be ignored or
covered up with shams; but it is not the only one. If the optimism of Leibnitz is a foolish
though pleasant dream, the pessimism of Schopenhauer is a nightmare, the more foolish because
of its hideousness. Error which is not pleasant is surely the worst form of wrong.

[201] This may not be the best of all possible worlds, but to say that it is the worst is mere
petulant nonsense. A worn-out voluptuary may find nothing good under the sun, or a vain and
inexperienced youth, who cannot get the moon he cries for, may vent his irritation in pessimistic
moanings; but there can be no doubt in the mind of any reasonable person that mankind could,
would, and in fact do, get on fairly well with vastly less happiness and far more misery than
find their way into the lives of nine people out of ten. If each and all of us had been visited
by an attack of neuralgia, or of extreme mental depression, for one hour in every twenty-four--a
supposition which many tolerably vigorous people know, to their cost, is not extravagant--the
burden of life would have been immensely increased without much practical hindrance to its
general course. Men with any manhood in them find life quite worth living under worse conditions
than these.

There is another sufficiently obvious fact, which renders the hypothesis that the course of
sentient nature is dictated by malevolence quite untenable. A vast multitude of pleasures,
and these among the purest and the best, are superfluities, bits of good which are to all appearances
unnecessary as inducements to live, and are, so to speak, thrown into the bargain of life.
To those who experience them, few delights can be more entrancing than such as are afforded
by natural [202] beauty, or by the arts, and especially by music; but they are products of,
rather than factors in, evolution, and it is probable that they are known, in any considerable
degree, to but a very small proportion of mankind.

The conclusion of the whole matter seems to be that, if Ormuzd has not had his way in this
world, neither has Ahriman. Pessimism is as little consonant with the facts of sentient existence
as optimism. If we desire to represent the course of nature in terms of human thought, and
assume that it was intended to be that which it is, we must say that its governing principle
is intellectual and not moral; that it is a materialized logical process, accompanied by pleasures
and pains, the incidence of which, in the majority of cases, has not the slightest reference
to moral desert. That the rain falls alike upon the just and the unjust, and that those upon
whom the Tower of Siloam fell were no worse than their neighbours, seem to be Oriental modes
of expressing the same conclusion.

In the strict sense of the word "nature," it denotes the sum of the phenomenal world, of that
which has been, and is, and will be; and society, like art, is therefore a part of nature.
But it is convenient to distinguish those parts of nature in which man plays the part of immediate
cause, as some thing apart; and, therefore, society, like art, [203] is usefully to be considered
as distinct from nature. It is the more desirable, and even necessary, to make this distinction,
since society differs from nature in having a definite moral object; whence it comes about
that the course shaped by the ethical man--the member of society or citizen--necessarily runs
counter to that which the non-ethical man--the primitive savage, or man as a mere member of
the animal kingdom--tends to adopt. The latter fights out the struggle for existence to the
bitter end, like any other animal; the former devotes his best energies to the object of setting
limits to the struggle.*

In the cycle of phenomena presented by the life of man, the animal, no more moral end is discernible
than in that presented by the lives of the wolf and of the deer. However imperfect the relics
of prehistoric men may be, the evidence which they afford clearly tends to the conclusion that,
for thousands and thousands of years, before the origin of the oldest known civilizations,
men were savages of a very low type. They strove with their enemies and their competitors;
they preyed upon things weaker or less cunning than themselves; they were born, multiplied
without stint, and died, for thousands of generations alongside the mammoth, the urus, the
lion, and the hyaena, whose lives were spent in the same way; [204] and they were no more to
be praised or blamed on moral grounds, than their less erect and more hairy compatriots.

    * [The reader will observe that this is the argument of the
    Romanes Lecture, in brief.--1894.]

As among these, so among primitive men, the weakest and stupidest went to the wall, while the
toughest and shrewdest, those who were best fitted to cope with their circumstances, but not
the best in any other sense, survived. Life was a continual free fight, and beyond the limited
and temporary relations of the family, the Hobbesian war of each against all was the normal
state of existence. The human species, like others, plashed and floundered amid the general
stream of evolution, keeping its head above water as it best might, and thinking neither of
whence nor whither.

The history of civilization--that is, of society--on the other hand, is the record of the attempts
which the human race has made to escape from this position. The first men who substituted the
state of mutual peace for that of mutual war, whatever the motive which impelled them to take
that step, created society. But, in establishing peace, they obviously put a limit upon the
struggle for existence. Between the members of that society, at any rate, it was not to be
pursued a outrance. And of all the successive shapes which society has taken, that most nearly
approaches perfection in which the war of individual against individual is most strictly limited.

[205] The primitive savage, tutored by Istar, appropriated whatever took his fancy, and killed
whomsoever opposed him, if he could. On the contrary, the ideal of the ethical man is to limit
his freedom of action to a sphere in which he does not interfere with the freedom of others;
he seeks the common weal as much as his own; and, indeed, as an essential part of his own welfare.
Peace is both end and means with him; and he founds his life on a more or less complete self-restraint,
which is the negation of the unlimited struggle for existence. He tries to escape from his
place in the animal kingdom, founded on the free development of the principle of non-moral
evolution, and to establish a kingdom of Man, governed upon tile principle of moral evolution.
For society not only has a moral end, but in its perfection, social life, is embodied morality.

But the effort of ethical man to work towards a moral end by no means abolished, perhaps has
hardly modified, the deep-seated organic impulses which impel the natural man to follow his
non-moral course. One of the most essential conditions, if not the chief cause, of the struggle
for existence, is the tendency to multiply without limit, which man shares with all living
things. It is notable that "increase and multiply" is a commandment traditionally much older
than the ten; and that it is, perhaps, the only one which has been spontaneously and ex animo
obeyed by [206] the great majority of the human race. But, in civilized society, the inevitable
result of such obedience is the re-establishment, in all its intensity, of that struggle for
existence--the war of each against all--the mitigation or abolition of which was the chief
end of social organization.

It is conceivable that, at some. in the history of the fabled Atlantis, the production of food
should have been exactly sufficient to meet the wants of the population, that the makers of
the commodities of the artificer should have amounted to just the number supportable by the
surplus food of the agriculturists. And, as there is no harm in adding another monstrous supposition
to the foregoing, let it be imagined that every man, woman, and child was perfectly virtuous,
and aimed at the good of all as the highest personal good. In that happy land, the natural
man would have been finally put down by the ethical man. There would have been no competition,
but the industry of each would have been serviceable to all; nobody being vain and nobody avaricious,
there would have been no rivalries; the struggle for existence would have been abolished, and
the millennium would have finally set in. But it is obvious that this state of things could
have been permanent only with a stationary population. Add ten fresh mouths; and as, by the
supposition, there was only exactly enough before, somebody must go on short rations. The [207]
Atlantis society might have been a heaven upon earth, the whole nation might have consisted
of just men, needing no repentance, and yet somebody must starve. Reckless Istar, non-moral
Nature, would have riven the ethical fabric. I was once talking with a very eminent physician*
about the vis medicatrix naturae. "Stuff!" said he; "nine times out of ten nature does not
want to cure the man: she wants to put him in his coffin." And Istar-Nature appears to have
equally little sympathy with the ends of society. "Stuff! she wants nothing but a fair field
and free play for her darling the strongest."

    * The late Sir W. Gull

Our Atlantis may be an impossible figment, but the antagonistic tendencies which the fable
adumbrates have existed in every society which was ever established, and, to all appearance,
must strive for the victory in all that will be. Historians point to the greed and ambition
of rulers, to the reckless turbulence of the ruled, to the debasing effects of wealth and luxury,
and to the devastating wars which have formed a great part of the occupation of mankind, as
the causes of the decay of states and the foundering of old civilizations, and thereby point
their story with a moral.  No doubt immoral motives of all sorts have figured largely among
the minor causes of these events. But beneath all this [208] superficial turmoil lay the deep-seated
impulse given by unlimited multiplication. In the swarms of colonies thrown out by Phoenicia
and by old Greece; in the ver sacrum of the Latin races; in the floods of Gauls and of Teutons
which burst over the frontiers of the old civilization of Europe; in the swaying to and fro
of the vast Mongolian hordes in late times, the population problem comes to the front in a
very visible shape. Nor is it less plainly manifest in the everlasting agrarian questions of
ancient Rome than in the Arreoi societies of the Polynesian Islands.

In the ancient world, and in a large part of that in which we live, the practice of infanticide
was, or is, a regular and legal custom; famine, pestilence, and war were and are normal factors
in the struggle for existence, and they have served, in a gross and brutal fashion, to mitigate
the intensity of the effects of its chief cause.

But, in the more advanced civilizations, the progress of private and public morality has steadily
tended to remove all these checks. We declare infanticide murder, and punish it as such; we
decree, not quite so successfully, that no one shall die of hunger; we regard death from preventible
causes of other kinds as a sort of constructive murder, and eliminate pestilence to the best
of our ability; we declaim against the curse [209] of war, and the wickedness of the military
spirit, and we are never weary of dilating on the blessedness of peace and the innocent beneficence
of Industry. In their moments of expansion, even statesmen and men of business go thus far.
The finer spirits look to an ideal civitas Dei; a state when, every man having reached the
point of absolute self-negation, and having nothing but moral perfection to strive after, peace
will truly reign, not merely among nations, but among men, and the struggle for existence will
be at an end.

Whether human nature is competent, under any circumstances, to reach, or even seriously advance
towards, this ideal condition, is a question which need not be discussed. It will be admitted
that mankind has not yet reached this stage by a very long way, and my business is with the
present. And that which I wish to point out is that, so long as the natural man increases and
multiplies without restraint, so long will peace and industry not only permit, but they will
necessitate, a struggle for existence as sharp as any that ever went on under the regime of
war. If Istar is to reign on the one hand, she will demand her human sacrifices on the other.

Let us look at home. For seventy years peace and industry have had their way among us with
less interruption and under more favourable conditions than in any other country on the face
of the earth. The wealth of Croesus was nothing to [210] that which we have accumulated, and
our prosperity has filled the world with envy. But Nemesis did not forget Croesus: has she
forgotten us?

I think not. There are now 36,000,000 of people in our islands, and every year considerably
more than 300,000 are added to our numbers.* That is to say, about every hundred seconds, or
so, a new claimant to a share in the common stock or maintenance presents him or herself among
us. At the present time, the produce of the soil does not suffice to feed half its population.
The other moiety has to be supplied with food which must be bought from the people of food-producing
countries. That is to say, we have to offer them the things which they want in exchange for
the things we want. And the things they want and which we can produce better than they can
are mainly manufactures--industrial products.

    * These numbers are only approximately accurate. In 1881, our
    population amounted to 35,241,482, exceeding the number in 1871
    by 3,396,103. The average annual increase in the decennial.
    1871--1881 is therefore 339,610. The number of minutes in a
    calendar year is 525,600.

The insolent reproach of the first Napoleon had a very solid foundation. We not only are, but,
under penalty of starvation, we are bound to be, a nation of shopkeepers. But other nations
also lie under the same necessity of keeping shop, and some of them deal in the same goods
as ourselves. Our customers naturally seek to get the most and [211] the best in exchange for
their produce. If our goods are inferior to those of our competitors, there is no ground, compatible
with the sanity of the buyers, which can be alleged, why they should not prefer the latter.
And, if that result should ever take place on a large and general scale, five or six millions
of us would soon have nothing to eat. We know what the cotton famine was; and we can therefore
form some notion of what a dearth of customers would be.

Judged by an ethical standard, nothing can be less satisfactory than the position in which
we find ourselves. In a real, though incomplete, degree we have attained the condition of peace
which is the main object of social organization; and, for argument's sake, it may be assumed
that we desire nothing but that which is in itself innocent and praiseworthy--namely, the enjoyment
of the fruits of honest industry. And lo! in spite of ourselves, we are in reality engaged
in an internecine struggle for existence with our presumably no less peaceful and well-meaning
neighbours. We seek peace and we do not ensue it. The moral nature in us asks for no more than
is compatible with the general good; the non-moral nature proclaims and acts upon that fine
old Scottish family motto, "Thou shalt starve ere I want." Let us be under no illusions, then.
So long as unlimited multiplication goes on, no social organization which has ever been devised,
or is likely to [212] be devised, no fiddle-faddling with the distribution of wealth, will
deliver society from the tendency to be destroyed by the reproduction within itself, in its
intensest form, of that struggle for existence the limitation of which is the object of society.
And however shocking to the moral sense this eternal competition of man against man and of
nation against nation may be; however revolting may be the accumulation of misery at the negative
pole of society, in contrast with that of monstrous wealth at the positive pole;* this state
of things must abide, and grow continually worse, so long as Istar holds her way unchecked.
It is the true riddle of the Sphinx; and every nation which does not solve it will sooner or
later be devoured by the monster itself has generated.

The practical and pressing question for us, just now, seems to me to be how to gain time. "Time
brings counsel," as the Teutonic proverb has it; and wiser folk among our posterity may see
their way out of that which at present looks like an impasse.

It would be folly to entertain any ill-feeling towards those neighbours and rivals who, like
ourselves, are slaves of Istar; but, if somebody is to be starved, the modern world has no
Oracle of Delphi to which the nations can appeal for an [213] indication of the victim. It
is open to us to try our fortune; and, if we avoid impending fate, there will be a certain
ground for believing that we are the right people to escape. Securus judicat orbis.

    * [It is hard to say whether the increase of the unemployed
    poor, or that of the unemployed rich, is the greater social
    evil. -- 1894]

To this end, it is well to look into the necessary condition of our salvation by works. They
are two, one plain to all the world and hardly needing insistence; the other seemingly not
so plain, since too often it has been theoretically and practically left out of sight. The
obvious condition is that our produce shall be better than that of others. There is only one
reason why our goods should be preferred to those of our rivals--our customers must find them
better at the price. That means that we must use more knowledge, skill, and industry in producing
them, without a proportionate increase in the cost of production; and, as the price of labour
constitutes a large element in that cost, the rate of wages must be restricted within certain
limits. It is perfectly true that cheap production and cheap labour are by no means synonymous;
but it is also true that wages cannot increase beyond a certain proportion without destroying
cheapness.  Cheapness, then, with, as part and parcel of cheapness, a moderate price of labour,
is essential to our success as competitors in the markets of the world.

The second condition is really quite as plainly indispensable as the first, if one thinks seriously
[214] about the matter. It is social stability.  Society is stable, when the wants of its members
obtain as much satisfaction as, life being what it is, common sense and experience show may
be reasonably expected. Mankind, in general, care very little for forms of government or ideal
considerations of any sort; and nothing really stirs the great multitude to break with custom
and incur the manifest perils of revolt except the belief that misery in this world, or damnation
in the next, or both, are threatened by the continuance of the state of things in which they
have been brought up. But when they do attain that conviction, society becomes as unstable
as a package of dynamite, and a very small matter will produce the explosion which sends it
back to the chaos of savagery.

It needs no argument to prove that when the price of labour sinks below a certain point, the
worker infallibly falls into that condition which the French emphatically call la misere--a
word for which I do not think there is any exact English equivalent. It is a condition in which
the food, warmth, and clothing which are necessary for the mere maintenance of the functions
of the body in their normal state cannot be obtained; in which men, women, and children are
forced to crowd into dens wherein decency is abolished and the most ordinary conditions of
healthful existence are impossible of attainment; in which the [215] pleasures within reach
are reduced to bestiality and drunkenness; in which the pains accumulate at compound interest,
in the shape of starvation, disease, stunted development, and moral degradation; in which the
prospect of even steady and honest industry is a life of unsuccessful battling with hunger,
rounded by a pauper's grave.

That a certain proportion of the members of every great aggregation of mankind should constantly
tend to establish and populate such a Slough of Despond as this is inevitable, so long as some
people are by nature idle and vicious, while others are disabled by sickness or accident, or
thrown upon the world by the death of their bread-winners. So long as that proportion is restricted
within tolerable limits, it can be dealt with; and, so far as it arises only from such causes,
its existence may and must be patiently borne.  But, when the organization of society, instead
of mitigating this tendency, tends to continue and intensify it; when a given social order
plainly makes for evil and not for good, men naturally enough begin to think it high time to
try a fresh experiment. The animal man, finding that the ethical man has landed him in such
a slough, resumes his ancient sovereignty, and preaches anarchy; which is, substantially, a
proposal to reduce the social cosmos to chaos, and begin the brute struggle for existence once
again.

Any one who is acquainted with the state of [216] the population of all great industrial centres,
whether in this or other countries, is aware that, amidst a large and increasing body of that
population, la misere reigns supreme. I have no pretensions to the character of a philanthropist,
and I have a special horror of all sorts of sentimental rhetoric; I am merely trying to deal
with facts, to some extent within my own knowledge, and further evidenced by abundant testimony,
as a naturalist; and I take it to be a mere plain truth that, throughout industrial Europe,
there is not a single large manufacturing city which is free from a vast mass of people whose
condition is exactly that described; and from a still greater mass who, living just on the
edge of the social swamp, are liable to be precipitated into it by any lack of demand for their
produce. And, with every addition to the population, the multitude already sunk in the pit
and the number of the host sliding towards it continually increase.

Argumentation can hardly be needful to make it clear that no society in which the elements
of decomposition are thus swiftly and surely accumulating can hope to win in the race of industries.

Intelligence, knowledge, and skill are undoubtedly conditions of success; but of what avail
are they likely to be unless they are backed up by honesty, energy, goodwill, and all the physical
and moral faculties that go to the making of manhood, and unless they are stimulated by hope
of such [217] reward as men may fairly look to? And what dweller in the slough of want, dwarfed
in body and soul, demoralized, hopeless, can reasonably be expected to possess these qualities?

Any full and permanent development of the productive powers of an industrial population, then,
must be compatible with and, indeed, based upon a social organization which will secure a fair
amount of physical and moral welfare to that population; which will make for good and not for
evil. Natural science and religious enthusiasm rarely go hand in hand, but on this matter their
concord is complete; and the least sympathetic of naturalists can but admire the insight and
the devotion of such social reformers as the late Lord Shaftesbury, whose recently published
"Life and Letters" gives a vivid picture of the condition of the working classes fifty years
ago, and of the pit which our industry, ignoring these plain truths, was then digging under
its own feet.

There is, perhaps, no more hopeful sign of progress among us, in the last half-century, than
the steadily increasing devotion which has been and is directed to measures for promoting physical
and moral welfare among the poorer classes. Sanitary reformers, like most other reformers whom
I have had the advantage of knowing, seem to need a good dose of fanaticism, as a sort of moral
coca, to keep them up to the mark, and, doubtless, they have made many mistakes; but that the
[218] endeavour to improve the condition under our industrial population live, to amend the
drainage of densely peopled streets, to provide baths, washhouses, and gymnasia, to facilitate
habits of thrift, to furnish some provision for instruction and amusement in public libraries
and the like, is not only desirable from a philanthropic point of view, but an essential condition
of safe industrial development, appears to me to be indisputable. It is by such means alone,
so far as I can see, that we can hope to check the constant gravitation of industrial society
towards la misere, until the general progress of intelligence and morality leads men to grapple
with the sources of that tendency. If it is said that the carrying out of such arrangements
as those indicated must enhance the cost of production, and thus handicap the producer in the
race of competition, I venture, in the first place, to doubt the fact; but if it be so, it
results that industrial society has to face a dilemma, either alternative of which threatens
destruction.

On the one hand, a population the labour of which is sufficiently remunerated may be physically
and morally healthy and socially stable, but may fail in industrial competition by reason of
the dearness of its produce.  On the other hand, a population the labour of which is insufficiently
remunerated must become physically and morally unhealthy, and socially unstable; and though
it [219] may succeed for a while in industrial competition, by reason of the cheapness of its
produce, it must in the end fall, through hideous misery and degradation, to utter ruin.

Well, if these are the only possible alternatives, let us for ourselves and our children choose
the former, and, if need be, starve like men. But I do not believe that the stable society
made up of healthy, vigorous, instructed, and self-ruling people would ever incur serious risk
of that fate. They are not likely to be troubled with many competitors of the same character,
just yet; and they may be safely trusted to find ways of holding their own.

Assuming that the physical and moral well-being and the stable social order, which are the
indispensable conditions of permanent industrial development, are secured, there remains for
consideration the means of attaining that knowledge and skill without which, even then, the
battle of competition cannot be successfully fought. Let us consider how we stand. A vast system
of elementary education has now been in operation among us for sixteen years, and has reached
all but a very small fraction of the population. I do not think that there is any room for
doubt that, on the whole, it has worked well, and that its indirect no less than its direct
benefits have been immense. But, as might be expected, it exhibits the defects of all our educational
systems--fashioned [220] as they were to meet the wants of a bygone condition of society. There
is a widespread and, I think, well-justified complaint that it has too much to do with books
and too little to do with things. I am as little disposed as any one can well be to narrow
early education and to make the primary school a mere annexe of the shop. And it is not so
much in the interests of industry, as in that of breadth of culture, that I echo the common
complaint against the bookish and theoretical character of our primary instruction.

If there were no such things as industrial pursuits, a system of education which does nothing
for the faculties of observation, which trains neither the eye nor the hand, and is compatible
with utter ignorance of the commonest natural truths, might still be reasonably regarded as
strangely imperfect. And when we consider that the instruction and training which are lacking
are exactly; those which are of most importance for the great mass of our population, the fault
becomes almost a crime, the more that there is no practical difficulty in making good these
defects. There really is no reason why drawing should not be universally taught, and it is
an admirable training for both eye and hand. Artists are born, not made; but everybody may
be taught to draw elevations, plans, and sections; and pots and pans are as good, indeed better,
models for [221] this purpose than the Apollo Belvedere. The plant is not expensive; and there
is this excellent quality about drawing of the kind indicated, that it can be tested almost
as easily and severely as arithmetic. Such drawings are either right or wrong, and if they
are wrong the pupil can be made to see that they are wrong. From the industrial point of view,
drawing has the further merit that there is hardly any trade in which the power of drawing
is not of daily and hourly utility.  In the next place, no good reason, except the want of
capable teachers, can be assigned why elementary notions of science should not be an element
in general instruction. In this case, again, no expensive or elaborate apparatus is necessary.
The commonest thing--a candle, a boy's squirt, a piece of chalk--in the hands of a teacher
who knows his business, may be made the starting-point whence children may be led into the
regions of science as far as their capacity permits, with efficient exercise of their observational
and reasoning faculties on the road. If object lessons often prove trivial failures, it is
not the fault of object lessons, but that of the teacher, who has not found out how much the
power of teaching a little depends on knowing a great deal, and that thoroughly; and that he
has not made that discovery is not the fault of the teachers, but of the detestable system
of training them which is widely prevalent.*

    * Training in the use of simple tools is no doubt desirable,
    on all grounds. From the point of view of "culture," the
    man whose "fingers are all thumbs" is but a stunted
    creature. But the practical difficulties in the way of
    introducing handiwork of this kind into elementary schools
    appear to me to be considerable.

[222] As I have said, I do not regard the proposal to add these to the present subjects of
universal instruction as made merely in the interests of industry. Elementary science and drawing
are just as needful at Eton (where I am happy to say both are now parts of the regular course)
as in the lowest primary school. But their importance in the education of the artisan is enhanced,
not merely by the fact that the knowledge and skill thus gained--little as they may amount
to--will still be of practical utility to him; but, further, because they constitute an introduction
to that special training which is commonly called "technical education."

I conceive that our wants in this last direction may be grouped under three heads: (1) Instruction
in the principles of those branches of science and of art which are peculiarly applicable to
industrial pursuits, which may be called preliminary scientific education. (2) Instruction
in the special branches of such applied science and art, as technical education proper. (3)
Instruction of teachers in both these branches. (4) Capacity-catching machinery.

A great deal has already been done in each of these directions, but much remains to be done.
If elementary education is amended in the way [223] that has been suggested, I think that the
school boards will have quite as much on their hands as they are capable of doing well. The
influences under which the members of these bodies are elected do not tend to secure fitness
for dealing with scientific or technical education; and it is the less necessary to burden
them with an uncongenial task as there are other organizations, not only much better fitted
to do the work, but already actually doing it.

In the matter of preliminary scientific education, the chief of these is the Science and Art
Department, which has done more during the last quarter of a century for the teaching of elementary
science among the masses of the people than any organization which exists either in this or
in any other country. It has become veritably a people's university, so far as physical science
is concerned. At the foundation of our old universities they were freely open to the poorest,
but the poorest must come to them. In the last quarter of a century, the Science and Art Department,
by means of its classes spread all over the country and open to all, has conveyed instruction
to the poorest. The University Extension movement shows that our older learned corporations
have discovered the propriety of following suit.

Technical education, in the strict sense, has become a necessity for two reasons. The old apprenticeship
system has broken down, partly by [224] reason of the changed conditions of industrial life,
and partly because trades have ceased to be "crafts," the traditional secrets whereof the master
handed down to his apprentices. Invention is constantly changing the face of our industries,
so that "use and wont," "rule of thumb," and the like, are gradually losing their importance,
while that knowledge of principles which alone can deal successfully with changed conditions
is becoming more and more valuable. Socially, the "master" of four or five apprentices is disappearing
in favour of the "employer" of forty, or four hundred, or four thousand, "hands," and the odds
and ends of technical knowledge, formerly picked up in a shop, are not, and cannot be, supplied
in the factory. The instruction formerly given by the master must therefore be more than replaced
by the systematic teaching of the technical school.

Institutions of this kind on varying scales of magnitude and completeness, from the splendid
edifice set up by the City and Guilds Institute to the smallest local technical school, to
say nothing of classes, such as those in technology instituted by the Society of Arts (subsequently
taken over by the City Guilds), have been established in various parts of the country, and
the movement in favour of their increase and multiplication is rapidly growing in breadth and
intensity. But there is much difference of opinion as to the best [225] way in which the technical
instruction, so generally desired, should be given. Two courses appear to be practicable: the
one is the establishment of special technical schools with a systematic and lengthened course
of instruction demanding the employment of the whole time of the pupils. The other is the setting
afoot of technical classes, especially evening classes, comprising a short series of lessons
on some special topic, which may be attended by persons already earning wages in some branch
of trade or commerce.

There is no doubt that technical schools, on the plan indicated under the first head, are extremely
costly; and, so far as the teaching of artisans is concerned, it is very commonly objected
to them that, as the learners do not work under trade conditions, they are apt to fall into
amateurish habits, which prove of more hindrance than service in the actual business of life.
When such schools are attached to factories under the direction of an employer who desires
to train up a supply of intelligent workmen, of course this objection does not apply; nor can
the usefulness of such schools for the training of future employers and for the higher grade
of the employed be doubtful; but they are clearly out of the reach of the great mass of the
people, who have to earn their bread as soon as possible. We must therefore look to the classes,
and especially to evening classes, as the great instrument for the technical [226] education
of the artisan. The utility of such classes has now been placed beyond all doubt; the only
question which remains is to find the ways and means of extending them.

We are here, as in all other questions of social organization, met by two diametrically opposed
views. On the one hand, the methods pursued in foreign countries are held up as our example.
The State is exhorted to take the matter in hand and establish a great system of technical
education. On the other hand, many economists of the individualist school exhaust the resources
of language in condemning and repudiating, not merely the interference of the general government
in such matters, but the application of a farthing of the funds raised by local taxation to
these purposes. I entertain a strong conviction that, in this country, at any rate, the State
had much better leave purely technical and trade instruction alone. But, although my personal
leanings are decidedly towards the individualists, I have arrived at that conclusion on merely
practical grounds. In fact, my individualism is rather of a sentimental sort, and I sometimes
think I should be stronger in the faith if it were less vehemently advocated.* I am unable
to see that civil society is anything but a corporation established [227] for a moral object
only--namely, the good of its members--and therefore that it may take such measures as seem
fitting for the attainment of that which the general voice decides to be the general good.
That the suffrage of the majority is by no means a scientific test of social good and evil
is unfortunately too true; but, in practice, it is the only test we can apply, and the refusal
to abide by it means anarchy. The purest despotism that ever existed is as much based upon
that will of the majority (which is usually submission to the will of a small minority) as
the freest republic. Law is the expression of the opinion of the majority; and it is law, and
not mere opinion, because the many are strong enough to enforce it.

    * In what follows I am only repeating and emphasizing
    opinions which I expressed seventeen years ago, in an
    Address to the members of the Midland Institute
    (republished in Critiques and Addresses in 1873, and in Vol.
    I. of these Essays ). I have seen no reason to modify them,
    notwithstanding high authority on the other side.

I am as strongly convinced as the most pronounced individualist can be, that it is desirable
that every man should be free to act in every way which does not limit the corresponding freedom
of his fellow-man. But I fail to connect that great induction of political science with the
practical corollary which is frequently drawn from it: that the State--that is, the people
in their corporate capacity--has no business to meddle with anything but the administration
of justice and external defence. It appears to me that the [228] amount of freedom which incorporate
society may fitly leave to its members is not a fixed quantity, to be determined a priori by
deduction from the fiction called "natural rights"; but that it must be determined by, and
vary with, circumstances. I conceive it to be demonstrable that the higher and the more complex
the organization of the social body, the more closely is the life of each member bound up with
that of the whole; and the larger becomes the category of acts which cease to be merely self-regarding,
and which interfere with the freedom of others more or less seriously.

If a squatter, living ten miles away from any neighbour, chooses to burn his house down to
get rid of vermin, there may be no necessity (in the absence of insurance offices) that the
law should interfere with his freedom of action; his act can hurt nobody but himself. But,
if the dweller in a street chooses to do the same thing, the State very properly makes such
a proceeding a crime, and punishes it as such. He does meddle with his neighbour's freedom,
and that seriously. So it might, perhaps, be a tenable doctrine, that it would be needless,
and even tyrannous, to make education compulsory in a sparse agricultural population, living
in abundance on the produce of its own soil; but, in a densely populated manufacturing country,
struggling for existence with competitors, every ignorant person tends to [229] become a burden
upon, and, so far, an infringer of the liberty of, his fellows, and an obstacle to their success.
Under such circumstances an education rate is, in fact, a war tax, levied for purposes of defence.

That State action always has been more or less misdirected, and always will be so, is, I believe,
perfectly true. But I am not aware that it is more true of the action of men in their corporate
capacity than it is of the doings of individuals. The wisest and most dispassionate man in
existence, merely wishing to go from one stile in a field to the opposite, will not walk quite
straight--he is always going a little wrong, and always correcting himself; and I can only
congratulate the individualist who is able to say that his general course of life has been
of a less undulatory character. To abolish State action, because its direction is never more
than approximately correct, appears to me to be much the same thing as abolishing the man at
the wheel altogether, because, do what he will, the ship yaws more or less. "Why should I be
robbed of my property to pay for teaching another man's children?" is an individualist question,
which is not unfrequently put as if it settled the whole business. Perhaps it does, but I find
difficulties in seeing why it should. The parish in which I live makes me pay my share for
the paving and lighting of a great many streets that I never pass through; [230] and I might
plead that I am robbed to smooth the way and lighten the darkness of other people. But I am
afraid the parochial authorities would not let me off on this plea; and I must confess I do
not see why they should.

I cannot speak of my own knowledge, but I have every reason to believe that I came into this
world a small reddish person, certainly without a gold spoon in my mouth, and in fact with
no discernible abstract or concrete "rights" or property of any description. If a foot was
not set upon me, at once, as a squalling nuisance, it was either the natural affection of those
about me, which I certainly had done nothing to deserve, or the fear of the law which, ages
before my birth, was painfully built up by the society into which I intruded, that prevented
that catastrophe. If I was nourished, cared for, taught, saved from the vagabondage of a wastrel,
I certainly am not aware that I did anything to deserve those advantages. And, if I possess
anything now, it strikes me that, though I may have fairly earned my day's wages for my day's
work, and may justly call them my property--yet, without that organization of society, created
out of the toil and blood of long generations before my time, I should probably have had nothing
but a flint axe and an indifferent hut to call my own; and even those would be mine only so
long as no stronger savage came my way.

So that if society, having, quite gratuitously, [231] done all these things for me, asks me
in turn to do something towards its preservation--even if that something is to contribute to
the teaching of other men's children--I really in spite of all my individualist leanings, feel
rather ashamed to say no. And if I were not ashamed, I cannot say that I think that society
would be dealing unjustly with me in converting the moral obligation into a legal one. There
is a manifest unfairness in letting all the burden be borne by the willing horse.

It does not appear to me, then, that there is any valid objection to taxation for purposes
of education; but, in the case of technical schools and classes, I think it is practically
expedient that such a taxation should be local. Our industrial population accumulates in particular
towns and districts; these districts are those which immediately profit by technical education;
and it is only in them that we can find the men practically engaged in industries, among whom
some may reasonably be expected to be competent judges of that which is wanted, and of the
best means of meeting the want.

In my belief, all methods of technical training are at present tentative, and, to be successful,
each must be adapted to the special peculiarities of its locality. This is a case in which
we want twenty years, not of "strong government," but of cheerful and hopeful blundering; and
we may be [232] thankful if we get things straight in that time.

The principle of the Bill introduced, but dropped, by the Government last session, appears
to me to be wise, and some of the objections to it I think are due to a misunderstanding. The
bill proposed in substance to allow localities to tax themselves for purposes of technical
education--on the condition that any scheme for such purpose should be submitted to the Science
and Art Department, and declared by that department to be in accordance with the intention
of the Legislature.

A cry was raised that the Bill proposed to throw technical education into the hands of the
Science and Art Department. But, in reality, no power of initiation, nor even of meddling with
details, was given to that Department--the sole function of which was to decide whether any
plan proposed did or did not come within the limits of "technical education." The necessity
for such control, somewhere, is obvious. No legislature, certainly not ours, is likely to grant
the power of self-taxation without setting limits to that power in some way; and it would neither
have been practicable to devise a legal definition of technical education, nor commendable
to leave the question to the Auditor-General, to be fought out in the law-courts. The only
alternative was to leave the decision to an appropriate State authority. If it is [233] asked
what is the need of such control if the people of the localities are the best judges, the obvious
reply is that there are localities and localities, and that while Manchester, or Liverpool,
or Birmingham, or Glasgow might, perhaps, be safely left to do as they thought fit, smaller
towns, in which there is less certainty of full discussion by competent people of different
ways of thinking, might easily fall a prey to crocheteers.

Supposing our intermediate science teaching and our technical schools and classes are established,
there is yet a third need to be supplied, and that is the want of good teachers. And it is
necessary not only to get them, but to keep them when you have got them.

It is impossible to insist too strongly upon the fact that the efficient teachers of science
and of technology are not to be made by the processes in vogue at ordinary training colleges.
The memory loaded with mere bookwork is not the thing wanted--is, in fact, rather worse than
useless--in the teacher of scientific subjects. It is absolutely essential that his mind should
be full of knowledge and not of mere learning, and that what he knows should have been learned
in the laboratory rather than in the library. There are happily already, both in London and
in the provinces, various places in which such training is to be had, and the main thing at
present is to make it in the first place accessible, and in the next [234] indispensable, to
those who undertake the business of teaching. But when the well-trained men are supplied, it
must be recollected that the profession of teacher is not a very lucrative or otherwise tempting
one, and that it may be advisable to offer special inducements to good men to remain in it.
These, however, are questions of detail into which it is unnecessary to enter further.

Last, but not least, comes the question of providing the machinery for enabling those who are
by nature specially qualified to undertake the higher branches of industrial work, to reach
the position in which they may render that service to the community. If all our educational
expenditure did nothing but pick one man of scientific or inventive genius, each year, from
amidst the hewers of wood and drawers of water, and give him the chance of making the best
of his inborn faculties, it would be a very good investment.  If there is one such child among
the hundreds of thousands of our annual increase, it would be worth any money to drag him either
from the slough of misery, or from the hotbed of wealth, and teach him to devote himself to
the service of his people. Here, again, we have made a beginning with our scholarships and
the like, and need only follow in the tracks already worn.

The programme of industrial development briefly set forth in the preceding pages is not what
Kant calls a "Hirngespinnst," a cobweb [235] spun in the brain of a Utopian philosopher. More
or less of it has taken bodily shape in many parts of the country, and there are towns of no
great size or wealth in the manufacturing districts (Keighley, for example) in which almost
the whole of it has, for some time, been carried out, so far as the means at the disposal of
the energetic and public-spirited men who have taken the matter in hand permitted. The thing
can be done; I have endeavoured to show good grounds for the belief that it must be done, and
that speedily, if we wish to hold our own in the war of industry. I doubt not that it will
be done, whenever its absolute necessity becomes as apparent to all those who are absorbed
in the actual business of industrial life as it is to some of the lookers on.

Perhaps it is necessary for me to add that technical education is not here proposed as a panacea
for social diseases, but simply as a medicament which will help the patient to pass through
an imminent crisis.

An ophthalmic surgeon may recommend an operation for cataract in a man who is going blind,
without being supposed to undertake that it will cure him of gout. And I may pursue the metaphor
so far as to remark, that the surgeon is justified in pointing out that a diet of pork-chops
and burgundy will probably kill his patient, though he may be quite able to suggest a mode
of living [236] which will free him from his constitutional disorder.

Mr. Booth asks me, Why do you not propose some plan of your own? Really, that is no answer
to my argument that his treatment will make the patient very much worse. [Note added in Social
Diseases and Worse Remedies, January, 1891.]

[237]

          LETTERS TO THE "Times"

                ON THE

         "DARKEST ENGLAND SCHEME."

                   I.

The "Times," December 1st, 1890

SIR: A short time ago a generous and philanthropic friend wrote to me, placing at my disposal
a large sum of money for the furtherance of the vast scheme which the "General" of the Salvation
Army has propounded, if I thought it worthy of support. The responsibility of advising my benevolent
correspondent has weighed heavily upon me, but I felt that it would be cowardly, as well as
ungracious, to refuse to accept it. I have therefore studied Mr. Booth's book with some care,
for the purpose of separating the essential from the accessory features of his project, and
I have based my judgment--I am sorry to say an unfavourable one--upon the data thus obtained.
Before communicating my conclusions to my friend, however, I am desirous to know what there
may be to be said in arrest of that judgment; [238] and the matter is of such vast public importance
that I trust you will aid me by publishing this letter, notwithstanding its length.

There are one or two points upon which I imagine all thinking men have arrived at the same
convictions as those from which Mr. Booth starts. It is certain that there is an immense amount
of remediable misery among us, that, in addition to the poverty, disease, and degradation which
are the consequences of causes beyond human control, there is a vast, probably a very much
larger, quantity of misery which is the result of individual ignorance, or misconduct, and
of faulty social arrangements. Further, I think it is not to be doubted that, unless this remediable
misery is effectually dealt with, the hordes of vice and pauperism will destroy modern civilization
as effectually as uncivilized tribes of another kind destroyed the great social organization
which preceded ours. Moreover, I think all will agree that no reforms and improvements will
go to the root of the evil unless they attack it in its ultimate source--namely, the motives
of the individual man. Honest, industrious, and self-restraining men will make a very bad social
organization prosper; while vicious, idle, and reckless citizens will bring to ruin the best
that ever was, or ever will be, invented.

The leading propositions which are peculiar to Mr. Booth I take to be these:--

[239] (1) That the only adequate means to such reformation of the individual man is the adoption
of that form of somewhat corybantic Christianity of which the soldiers of the Salvation Army
are the militant missionaries. This implies the belief that the excitement of the religious
emotions (largely by processes described by their employers as "rousing" and "convivial") is
a desirable and trustworthy method of permanently amending the conduct of mankind.

I demur to these propositions. I am of opinion that the testimony of history, no less than
the cool observation of that which lies within the personal experience of many of us, is wholly
adverse to it.

   (2) That the appropriate instrument for the propagation and
maintenance of this peculiar sacramental enthusiasm is the Salvation
Army--a body of devotees, drilled and disciplined as a military
organization, and provided with a numerous hierarchy of officers,
every one of whom is pledged to blind and unhesitating obedience to
the "General," who frankly tells us that the first condition of the
service is "implicit, unquestioning obedience." "A telegram from me
will send any of them to the uttermost parts of the earth"; every one
"has taken service on the express condition that he or she will obey,
without questioning, or gainsaying, the orders from headquarters"
("Darkest England," p. 243).

[240] This proposition seems to me to be indisputable. History confirms it.  Francis of Assisi
and Ignatius Loyola made their great experiments on the same principle. Nothing is more certain
than that a body of religious enthusiasts (perhaps we may even say fanatics) pledged to blind
obedience to their chief, is one of the most efficient instruments for effecting any purpose
that the wit of man has yet succeeded in devising. And I can but admire the insight into human
nature which has led Mr. Booth to leave his unquestioning and unhesitating instruments unbound
by vows. A volunteer slave is worth ten sworn bondsmen.

   (3) That the success of the Salvation Army, with its present force
of 9416 officers "wholly engaged in the work," its capital of three
quarters of a million, its income of the same amount, its 1375 corps
at home, and 1499 in the colonies and foreign countries (Appendix, pp.
3 and 4), is a proof that Divine assistance has been vouchsafed to its
efforts.

Here I am not able to agree with the sanguine Commander-in-chief of the new model, whose labours
in creating it have probably interfered with his acquisition of information respecting the
fate of previous enterprises of like kind.

It does not appear to me that his success is in any degree more remarkable than that of Francis
of Assisi or that of Ignatius Loyola, than that [241] of George Fox, or even than that of the
Mormons, in our own time. When I observe the discrepancies of the doctrinal foundations from
which each of these great movements set out, I find it difficult to suppose that supernatural
aid has been given to all of them; still more, that Mr. Booth's smaller measure of success
is evidence that it has been granted to him.

But what became of the Franciscan experiment?* If there was one rule rather than another on
which the founder laid stress, it was that his army of friars should be absolute mendicants,
keeping themselves sternly apart from all worldly entanglements. Yet, even before the death
of Francis, in 1226, a strong party, headed by Elias of Cortona, the deputy of his own appointment,
began to hanker after these very things; and, within thirty years of that time, the Franciscans
had become one of the most powerful, wealthy, and worldly corporations in Christendom, with
their fingers in every sink of political and social corruption, if so be profit for the order
could be fished out of it; their principal interest being to fight their rivals, the Dominicans,
and to persecute such of their own brethren as were honest enough to try to carry out their
founder's plainest injunctions. We also know what has become of Loyola's experiment. For two
centuries the Jesuits have been the hope of the enemies of the Papacy; whenever it becomes
too prosperous, they are sure to bring about a catastrophe by their corrupt use of the political
and social influence which their organization and their wealth secure.

    * See note pp. 245-247]

[242] With these examples of that which may happen to institutions founded by noble men, with
high aims, in the hands of successors of a different stamp, armed with despotic authority,
before me, common prudence surely requires that, before advising the handing over of a large
sum of money to the general of a new order of mendicants, I should ask what guarantee there
is that, thirty years hence, the "General" who then autocratically controls the action, say,
of 100,000 officers pledged to blind obedience, distributed through the whole length and breadth
of the poorer classes, and each with his finger on the trigger of a mine charged with discontent
and religious fanaticism; with the absolute control, say, of eight or ten millions sterling
of capital and as many of income; with barracks in every town, with estates scattered over
the country, and with settlements in the colonies--will exercise his enormous powers, not merely
honestly, but wisely? What shadow of security is there that the person who wields this uncontrolled
authority over many thousands of men shall use it solely for those philanthropic and religious
objects which, I do not doubt, are alone in the mind of Mr. Booth? Who is to say that the Salvation
Army, in the year [243] 1920, shall not be a replica of what the Franciscan order had become
in the year 1260?

The personal character and the intentions of the founders of such organizations as we are considering
count for very little in the formation of a forecast of their future; and if they did, it is
no disrespect to Mr.  Booth to say that he is not the peer of Francis of Assisi. But if Francis's
judgment of men was so imperfect as to permit him to appoint an ambitious intriguer of the
stamp of Brother Elias his deputy, we have no right to be sanguine about the perspicacity of
Mr. Booth in a like matter.

Adding to all these considerations the fact that Mr. Llewelyn Davies, the warmth of whose philanthropy
is beyond question, and in whose competency and fairness I, for one, place implicit reliance,
flatly denies the boasted success of the Salvation Army in its professed mission, I have arrived
at the conclusion that, as at present advised, I cannot be the instrument of carrying out my
friend's proposal.

Mr. Booth has pithily characterized certain benevolent schemes as doing sixpennyworth of good
and a shilling's worth of harm. I grieve to say that, in my opinion, the definition exactly
fits his own project. Few social evils are of greater magnitude than uninstructed and unchastened
religious fanaticism; no personal habit more surely degrades the conscience and the intellect
than [244] blind and unhesitating obedience to unlimited authority. Undoubtedly, harlotry and
intemperance are sore evils, and starvation is hard to bear, or even to know of; but the prostitution
of the mind, the soddening of the conscience, the dwarfing of manhood are worse calamities.
It is a greater evil to have the intellect of a nation put down by organized fanaticism; to
see its political and industrial affairs at the mercy of a despot whose chief thought is to
make that fanaticism prevail; to watch the degradation of men, who should feel themselves individually
responsible for their own and their country's fates, to mere brute instruments, ready to the
hand of a master for any use to which he may put them.

But that is the end to which, in my opinion, all such organizations as that to which kindly
people, who do not look to the consequences of their acts, are now giving their thousands,
inevitably tend. Unless clear proof that I am wrong is furnished, another thousand shall not
be added by my instrumentality.

              I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                  T. H. Huxley.

[245]

                     NOTE.

An authoritative contemporary historian, Matthew Paris, writes thus of the Minorite, or Franciscan,
Friars in England in 1235, just nine years after the death of Francis of Assisi:--

"At this time some of the Minorite brethren, as well as some of the Order of Preachers, unmindful
of their profession and the restrictions of their order, impudently entered the territories
of some noble monasteries, under pretense of fulfilling their duties of preaching, as if intending
to depart after preaching the next day. Under pretence of sickness, or on some other pretext,
however, they remained, and, constructing an altar of wood, they placed on it a consecrated
stone altar, which they had brought with them, and clandestinely and in a low voice performed
mass, and even received the confessions of many of the parishioners, to the prejudice of the
priests.  And if by chance they were not satisfied with this, they broke forth in insults and
threats, reviling every other order except their own, and asserting that all the rest were
doomed to damnation, and that they would not spare the soles of their feet till they had exhausted
the wealth of their opposers, however great it might be. The religious men, therefore, gave
way to them in many points, yielding to avoid scandal, and offending those in power. For they
were the councillors and messengers of the nobles, and even secretaries of the Pope, and therefore
obtained much [246] secular favour. Some, however, finding themselves opposed by the Court
of Rome, were restrained by obvious reasons, and went away in confusion; for the Supreme Pontiff,
with a scowling look, said to them, 'What means this, my brethren?  To what lengths are you
going? Have you not professed voluntary poverty, and that you would traverse towns and castles
and distant places, as the case required, barefooted and unostentatiously, in order to preach
the word of God in all humility? And do you now presume to usurp these estates to yourselves
against the will of the lords of these fees? Your religion appears to be in a great measure
dying away, and your doctrines to be confuted."

Under date of 1243, Matthew writes:--

"For three or four hundred years or more the monastic order did not hasten to destruction so
quickly as their order [Minorites and Preachers] of whom now the brothers, twenty-four years
having scarcely elapsed, had first built in England dwellings which rivalled regal palaces
in height. These are they who daily expose to view their inestimable treasures, in enlarging
their sumptuous edifices, and erecting lofty walls, thereby impudently transgressing the limits
of their original poverty and violating the basis of their religion, according to the prophecy
of German Hildegarde. When noblemen and rich men are at the point of death, whom they know
to be possessed of great riches, they, in their love of gain, diligently urge them, to the
injury and loss of the ordinary pastors, and extort confessions and hidden wills, lauding themselves
and their own order only, [247] and placing themselves before all others. So no faithful man
now believes he can be saved, except he is directed by the counsels of the Preachers and Minorites."--Matthew
Paris's English History. Translated by the Rev. J. A.  Giles, 1889, Vol. I.

                     II

The "Times," December 9th, 1890

Sir,--The purpose of my previous letter about Mr. Booth's scheme was to arouse the contributors
to the military chest of the Salvation Army to a clear sense of what they are doing. I thought
it desirable that they should be distinctly aware that they are setting up and endowing a sect,
in many ways analogous to the "Ranters" and "Revivalists" of undesirable notoriety in former
times; but with this immensely important difference, that it possesses a strong, far-reaching,
centralized organization, the disposal of the physical, moral, and financial strength of which
rests with an irresponsible chief, who, according to his own account, is assured of the blind
obedience of nearly 10,000 subordinates. I wish them to ask themselves, Ought prudent men and
good citizens to aid in the establishment of an organization which, under sundry, by no means
improbable, contingencies, may easily become a worse and more [248] dangerous nuisance than
the mendicant friars of the middle ages? If this is an academic question, I really do not know
what questions deserve to be called practical. As you divined, I purposely omitted any consideration
of the details of the Salvationist scheme, and of the principles which animate those who work
it, because I desired that the public appreciation of the evils, necessarily inherent in all
such plans of despotic social and religious regimentation should not be obscured by the raising
of points of less comparative, however great absolute, importance.

But it is now time to undertake a more particular criticism of "Darkest England." At the outset
of my examination of that work, I was startled to find that Mr. Booth had put forward his scheme
with an almost incredibly imperfect knowledge of what had been done and is doing in the same
direction. A simple reader might well imagine that the author of "Darkest England" posed as
the Columbus, or at any rate the Cortez, of that region.  "Go to Mudie's," he tells us, and
you will be surprised to see how few books there are upon the social problem. That may or may
not be correct; but if Mr. Booth had gone to a certain reading-room not far from Mudie's, I
undertake to say that the well-informed and obliging staff of the national library in Bloomsbury
would have provided him with more books on this topic, in almost all European languages, than
he would [249] read in three months.  Has socialism no literature? And what is socialism but
an incarnation of the social question? Moreover, I am persuaded that even "Mudie's" resources
could have furnished Mr. Booth with the "Life of Lord Shaftesbury" and Carlyle's works. Mr.
Booth seems to have undertaken to instruct the world without having heard of "Past and Present"
or of "Latter-Day Pamphlets"; though, somewhat late in the day, a judicious friend calls his
attention to them. To those of my contemporaries on whom, as on myself, Carlyle's writings
on this topic made an ineffaceable impression forty years ago, who know that, for all that
time, hundreds of able and devoted men, both clerical and lay, have worked heart and soul for
the permanent amendment of the condition of the poor, Mr. Booth's "Go to Mudie's" affords an
apt measure of the depth of his preliminary studies. However, I am bound to admit that these
earlier labourers in the field laboured in such a different fashion, that the originality of
the plan started by Mr. Booth remains largely unaffected. For them no drums have beat, no trombones
brayed; no sanctified buffoonery, after the model of the oration of the Friar in Wallenstein's
camp dear to the readers of Schiller, has tickled the ears of the groundlings on their behalf.
Sadly behind the great age of rowdy self-advertisement in which their lot has fallen, they
seem not to have advanced one whit [250] beyond John the Baptist and the Apostles, 1800 years
ago, in their notions of the way in which the metanoia, the change of mind of the ill-doer,
is to be brought about. Yet the new model was there, ready for the imitation of those ancient
savers of souls. The ranting and roaring mystagogues of some of the most venerable of Greek
and Syrian cults also had their processions and banners, their fifes and cymbals and holy chants,
their hierarchy of officers to whom the art of making collections was not wholly unknown; and
who, as freely as their modern imitators, promised an Elysian future to contributory converts.
The success of these antique Salvation armies was enormous. Simon Magus was quite as notorious
a personage, and probably had as strong a following as Mr. Booth. Yet the Apostles, with their
old-fashioned ways, would not accept such a success as a satisfactory sign of the Divine sanction,
nor depart from their own methods of leading the way to the higher life.

I deem it unessential to verify Mr. Booth's statistics. The exact strength of the population
of the realm of misery, be it one, two, or three millions, has nothing to do with the efficacy
of any means proposed for the highly desirable end of reducing it to a minimum. The sole question
for consideration at present is whether the scheme, keeping specially in view the spirit in
which it is to be worked, is likely to do more good than harm.

[251] Mr. Booth tells us, with commendable frankness, that "it is primarily and mainly for
the sake of saving the soul that I seek the salvation of the body" (p. 45), which language,
being interpreted, means that the propagation of the special Salvationist creed comes first,
and the promotion of the physical, intellectual, and purely moral welfare of mankind second
in his estimation. Men are to be made sober and industrious, mainly, that, as washed, shorn,
and docile sheep, they may be driven into the narrow theological fold which Mr. Booth patronizes.
If they refuse to enter, for all their moral cleanliness, they will have to take their place
among the goats as sinners, only less dirty than the rest.

I have been in the habit of thinking (and I believe the opinion is largely shared by reasonable
men) that self-respect and thrift are the rungs of the ladder by which men may most surely
climb out of the slough of despond of want; and I have regarded them as perhaps the most eminent
of the practical virtues. That is not Mr. Booth's opinion. For him they are mere varnished
sins--nothing better than "Pride re-baptised" (p. 46). Shutting his eyes to the necessary consequences
of the struggle for life, the existence of which he accepts as fully as any Darwinian,* Mr.
Booth tells men, whose evil case is one of those consequences, that envy is a corner-stone
of our [252] competitive system. With thrift and self-respect denounced as sin, with the suffering
of starving men referred to the sins of the capitalist, the gospel according to Mr. Booth may
save souls, but it will hardly save society.

    * See p. 100

In estimating the social and political influence which the Salvation Army is likely to exert,
it is important to reflect that the officers (pledged to blind obedience to their "General")
are not to confine themselves to the functions of mere deacons and catechists (though, under
a "General" like Cyril, Alexandria knew to her cost what even they could effect); they are
to be "tribunes of the people," who are to act as their gratuitous legal advisers; and, when
law is not sufficiently effective, the whole force of the army is to obtain what the said tribunes
may conceive to be justice, by the practice of ruthless intimidation. Society, says Mr. Booth,
needs "mothering"; and he sets forth, with much complacency, a variety of "cases," by which
we may estimate the sort of "mothering" to be expected at his parental hands. Those who study
the materials thus set before them will, I think, be driven to the conclusion that the "mother"
has already proved herself a most unscrupulous meddler, even if she has not fallen within reach
of the arm of the law.

Consider this "case." A, asserting herself to have been seduced twice, "applied to our people.
We hunted up the man, followed him to the country, [253] threatened him with public exposure,
and forced from him the payment to his victim of [Pounds] 60 down, an allowance of [Pounds]
1 a week, and an insurance policy on his life for [Pounds] 450 in her favour" (p. 222) .

Jedburgh justice this. We "constitute ourselves prosecutor, judge, jury, sheriff's officer,
all in one;" we "practice intimidation as deftly as if we were a branch of another League;
and, under threat of exposure," we "extort a tolerably heavy hush-money in payment of our silence.
"

Well, really, my poor moral sense is unable to distinguish these remarkable proceedings of
the new popular tribunate from what, in French, is called chantage and, in plain English, blackmailing.
And when we consider that anybody, for any reason of jealousy, or personal spite, or party
hatred, might be thus "hunted," "followed," "threatened," and financially squeezed or ruined,
without a particle of legal investigation, at the will of a man whom the familiar charged with
the inquisitorial business dare not hesitate to obey, surely it is not unreasonable to ask
how far does the Salvation Army, in its "tribune of the people" aspect, differ from a Sicilian
Mafia? I am no apologist of men guilty of the acts charged against the person who yet, I think,
might be as fairly called a "victim," in this case, as his partner in wrong-doing. It is possible
that, in so peculiar a case, Solomon himself might have been puzzled [254] to apportion the
relative moral delinquency of the parties. However that may be, the man was morally and legally
bound to support his child, and any one would have been justified in helping the woman to her
legal rights, and the man to the legal consequences (in which exposure is included) of his fault.

The action of the "General" of the Salvation Army in extorting the heavy fine he chose to impose
as the price of his silence, however excellent his motives, appears to me to be as immoral
as, I hope, it is illegal.

So much for the Salvation Army as a teacher of questionable ethics and of eccentric economics,
as the legal adviser who recommends and practices the extraction of money by intimidation,
as the fairy godmother who proposes to "mother" society, in a fashion which is not to my taste,
however much it may commend itself to some of Mr. Booth's supporters.

                  I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                      T. H. Huxley.

[255]

                    III

       The "Times," December 11th, 1890

Sir,--When I first addressed you on the subject of the projected operations of the Salvation
Army, all that I knew about that body was derived from the study of Mr. Booth's book, from
common repute, and from occasional attention to the sayings and doings of his noisy squadrons,
with which my walks about London, in past years, have made me familiar. I was quite unaware
of the existence of evidence respecting the present administration of the Salvation forces,
which would have enabled me to act upon the sagacious maxim of the American humourist, "Don't
prophesy unless you know." The letter you were good enough to publish has brought upon me a
swarm of letters and pamphlets.  Some favour me with abuse; some thoughtful correspondents
warmly agree with me, and then proceed to point out how much worthier certain schemes of their
own are of my friend's support; some send valuable encouragement, for which I offer my hearty
thanks, and ask them to excuse any more special acknowledgment. But that which I find most
to the purpose, just now, is the revelation made by some of the documents which have reached
me, of a fact of which I was wholly ignorant--namely, that [256] persons who have faithfully
and zealously served in the Salvation Army, who express unchanged attachment to its original
principles and practice, and who have been in close official relations with the "General" have
publicly declared that the process of degradation of the organization into a mere engine of
fanatical intolerance and personal ambition, which I declared was inevitable, has already set
in and is making rapid progress.

It is out of the question, Sir, that I should occupy the columns of the "Times" with a detailed
exposition and criticism of these pieces justificatives of my forecast. I say criticism, because
the assertions of persons who have quitted any society must, in fairness, be taken with the
caution that is required in the case of all ex parte statements of hostile witnesses. But it
is, at any rate, a notable fact that there are parts of my first letter, indicating the inherent
and necessary evil consequences of any such organization, which might serve for abstracts of
portions of this evidence, long since printed and published under the public responsibility
of the witnesses.

Let us ask the attention of your readers, in the first place, to "An ex-Captain's Experience
of the Salvation Army," by J. J. R. Redstone, the genuineness of which is guaranteed by the
preface (dated April 5th, 1888) which the Rev. Dr. Cunningham Geikie has supplied. Mr. Redstone's
story is well worth reading on its own account.

[257] Told in simple, direct language such as John Bunyan might have used, it permits no doubt
of the single-minded sincerity of the man, who gave up everything to become an officer of the
Salvation Army, but, exhibiting a sad want of that capacity for unhesitating and blind obedience
on which Mr.  Booth lays so much stress, was thrown aside, penniless--no, I am wrong, with
2s. 4d. for his last week's salary--to shift, with his equally devoted wife, as he best might.
I wish I could induce intending contributors to Mr.  Booth's army chest to read Mr. Redstone's
story. I would particularly ask them to contrast the pure simplicity of his plain tale with
the artificial pietism and slobbering unction of the letters which Mr. Ballington Booth addresses
to his "dear boy" (a married man apparently older than himself), so long as the said "dear
boy" is facing brickbats and starvation, as per order.

I confess that my opinion of the chiefs of the Salvation Army has been so distinctly modified
by the perusal of this pamphlet that I am glad to be relieved from the necessity of expressing
it. It will be much better that I should cite a few sentences from the preface written by Dr.
Cunningham Geikie, who expresses warm admiration for the early and uncorrupted work of the
Salvation Army, and cannot possibly be accused of prejudice against it on religious grounds:--

   (1) "The Salvation Army is emphatically a [258] family concern. Mr.
Booth, senior, is General; one son is chief of the staff, and the
remaining sons and daughters engross the other chief positions. It is
Booth all over; indeed, like the sun in your eyes, you can see nothing
else wherever you turn. And, as Dr. Geikie shrewdly remarks, 'to be
the head of a widely spread sect carries with it many advantages--not
all exclusively spiritual.'"

   (2) "Whoever becomes a Salvation officer is henceforth a slave,
helplessly exposed to the caprice of his superiors."

"Mr. Redstone bore an excellent character both before he entered the army and when he left
it. To join it, though a married man, he gave up a situation which he had held for five years,
and he served Mr. Booth two years, working hard in most difficult posts. His one fault, Major
Lawley tells us, was, that he was 'too straight'--that is, too honest, truthful, and manly--or,
in other words, too real a Christian. Yet without trial, without formulated charges, on the
strength of secret complaints which were never, apparently, tested, he was dismissed with less
courtesy than most people would show a beggar--with 2s. 4d. for his last week's salary. If
there be any mistake in this matter, I shall be glad to learn it."

   (3) Dr. Geikie confirms, on the ground of information given
confidentially by other officers, [259] Mr. Redstone's assertion that
they are watched and reported by spies from headquarters.

   (4) Mr. Booth refuses to guarantee his officers any fixed amount of
salary. While he and his family of high officials live in comfort, if
not in luxury, the pledged slaves whose devotion is the foundation of
any true success the Army has met with often have "hardly food enough
to sustain life. One good fellow frankly told me that when he had
nothing he just went and begged."

At this point, it is proper that I should interpose an apology for having hastily spoken of
such men as Francis of Assisi, even for purposes of warning, in connection with Mr. Booth.
Whatever may be thought of the wisdom of the plans of the founders of the great monastic orders
of the middle ages, they took their full share of suffering and privation, and never shirked
in their own persons the sacrifices they imposed on their followers.

I have already expressed the opinion, that whatever the ostensible purpose of the scheme under
discussion, one of its consequences will be the setting up and endowment of a new Ranter-Socialist
sect. I may now add that another effect will be--indeed, has been--to set up and endow the
Booth dynasty with unlimited control of the physical, moral, and financial resources of the
sect. Mr. Booth is already a printer and publisher, who, it is plainly declared, utilizes the
officers of the [260] Army as agents for advertising and selling his publications; and some
of them are so strongly impressed with the belief that active pushing of Mr. Booth's business
is the best road to their master's favour, that when the public obstinately refuse to purchase
his papers they buy them themselves and send the proceeds to headquarters. Mr. Booth is also
a retail trader on a large scale, and the Dean of Wells has, most seasonably, drawn attention
to the very notable banking project which he is trying to float. Any one who follows Dean Plumptre's
clear exposition of the principles of this financial operation can have little doubt that,
whether they are, or are not, adequate to the attainment of the first and second of Mr. Booth's
ostensible objects, they may be trusted to effect a wide extension of any kingdom in which
worldly possessions are of no value. We are, in fact, in sight of a financial catastrophe like
that of Law a century ago. Only it is the poor who will suffer.

I have already occupied too much of your space, and yet I have drawn upon only one of the sources
of information about the inner working of the Salvation Army at my disposition. Far graver
charges than any here dealt with are publicly brought in the others.

                   I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                       T. H. Huxley.

[261] P.S.-- I have just read Mr. Buchanan's letter in the Times of to-day.  Mr. Buchanan is,
I believe, an imaginative writer. I am not acquainted with his works, but nothing in the way
of fiction he has yet achieved can well surpass his account of my opinions and of the purport
of my writings.

                     IV

The "Times" December 20th, 1890

Sir,--In discussing Mr. Booth's projects I have hitherto left in the background a distinction
which must be kept well in sight by those who wish to form a fair judgment of the influence,
for good or evil, of the Salvation Army. Salvationism, the work of "saving souls" by revivalist
methods, is one thing; Boothism, the utilization of the workers for the furtherance of Mr.
Booth's peculiar projects, is another. Mr. Booth has captured, and harnessed with sharp bits
and effectual blinkers, a multitude of ultra-Evangelical missionaries of the revivalist school
who were wandering at large. It is this skilfully, if somewhat mercilessly, driven team which
has dragged the "General's" coach-load of projects into their present position.

[262] Looking, then, at the host of Salvationists proper, from the "captains" downwards (to
whom, in my judgment, the family hierarchy stands in the relation of the Old Man of the Sea
to Sinbad), as an independent entity, I desire to say that the evidence before me, whether
hostile or friendly to the General and his schemes, is distinctly favourable to them.  It exhibits
them as, in the main, poor, uninstructed, not unfrequently fanatical, enthusiasts, the purity
of whose lives, the sincerity of whose belief, and the cheerfulness of whose endurance of privation
and rough usage, in what they consider a just cause, command sincere respect. For my part,
though I conceive the corybantic method of soul-saving to be full of dangers, and though the
theological speculations of these good people are to me wholly unacceptable, yet I believe
that the evils which must follow in the track of such errors, as of all other errors, will
be largely outweighed by the moral and social improvement of the people whom they convert.
I would no more raise my voice against them (so long as they abstain from annoying their neighbours)
than I would quarrel with a man, vigorously sweeping out a stye, on account of the shape of
his broom, or because he made a great noise over his work. I have always had a strong faith
in the principle of the injunction, "Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn."
If a kingdom is worth a Mass, as a great [263] ruler said, surely the reign of clean living,
industry, and thrift is worth any quantity of tambourines and eccentric doctrinal hypotheses.
All that I have hitherto said, and propose further to say, is directed against Mr. Booth's
extremely clever, audacious, and hitherto successful attempt to utilize the credit won by all
this honest devotion and self-sacrifice for the purposes of his socialistic autocracy.

I now propose to bring forward a little more evidence as to how things really stand where Mr.
Booth's system has had a fair trial. I obtain it, mainly, from a curious pamphlet, the title
of which runs: "The New Papacy.  Behind the Scenes in the Salvation Army," by an ex-Staff Officer.
"Make not my Father's house a house of merchandise" (John ii. 16). 1889. Published at Toronto,
by A. Britnell. On the cover it is stated that "This is the book which was burned by the authorities
of the Salvation Army." I remind the reader, once more, that the statements which I shall cite
must be regarded as ex parte; all I can vouch for is that, on grounds of internal evidence
and from other concurrent testimony respecting the ways of the Booth hierarchy, I feel justified
in using them.

This is the picture the writer draws of the army in the early days of its invasion of the Dominion
of Canada:--

[264] "Then, it will be remembered, it professed to be the humble handmaid of the existing
churches; its professed object was the evangelization of the masses. It repudiated the idea
of building up a separate religious body, and it denounced the practice of gathering together
wealth and the accumulation of property. Men and women other than its own converts gathered
around it and threw themselves heart and soul into the work, for the simple reason that it
offered, as they supposed, a more extended and widely open field for evangelical effort. Ministers
everywhere were invited and welcomed to its platforms, majors and colonels were few and far
between, and the supremacy and power of the General were things unknown . . .  Care was taken
to avoid anything like proselytism; its converts were never coerced into joining its ranks...
In a word, the organization occupied the position of an auxiliary mission and recruiting agency
for the various religious bodies.... The meetings were crowded, people professed conversion
by the score, the public liberally supplied the means to carry on the work in their respective
communities; therefore every corps was wholly self-supporting, its officers were properly,
if not luxuriously, cared for, the local expenditure was amply provided, and, under the supervision
of the secretary, a local member, and the officer in charge, the funds were disbursed in the
towns where they were collected, and the [265] spirit of satisfaction and confidence was mutual
all around" (pp. 4, 5).

Such was the army as the green tree. Now for the dry:--

"Those who have been daily conversant with the army's machinery are well aware how entirely
and radically the whole system has changed, and how, from a band of devoted and disinterested
workers, united in the bonds of zeal and charity for the good of their fellows, it has developed
into a colossal and aggressive agency for the building up of a system and a sect, bound by
rules and regulations altogether subversive of religious liberty and antagonistic to every
(other?) branch of Christian endeavour, and bound hand and foot to the will of one supreme
head and ruler.... As the work has spread through the country, and as the area of its endeavours
has enlarged, each leading position has been filled, one after the other, by individuals strangers
to the country, totally ignorant of the sentiments and idiosyncrasies of the Canadian people,
trained in one school under the teachings and dominance of a member of the Booth family, and
out of whom every idea has been crushed, except that of unquestioning obedience to the General,
and the absolute necessity of going forward to his bidding without hesitation or question" (p. 6).

[266] "What is the result of all this? In the first place, whilst material prosperity has undoubtedly
been attained, spirituality has been quenched, and, as an evangelical agency, the army has
become almost a dead letter...  In seventy-five per cent of its stations its officers suffer
need and privation, chiefly on account of the heavy taxation that is placed upon them to maintain
an imposing headquarters and a large ornamental staff. The whole financial arrangements are
carried on by a system of inflation and a hand-to-mouth extravagance and blindness as to future
contingencies. Nearly all of its original workers and members have disappeared" (p. 7). "In
reference to the religious bodies at large the army has become entirely antagonistic. Soldiers
are forbidden by its rules to attend other places of worship without the permission of their
officers...  Officers or soldiers who may conscientiously leave the service or the ranks are
looked upon and often denounced publicly as backsliders...  Means of the most despicable description
have been resorted to in order to starve them back to the service" (p. 8). "In its inner workings
the army system is identical with Jesuitism...  That 'the end justifies the means,' if not
openly taught, is as tacitly agreed as in that celebrated order" (p. 9).

Surely a bitter, overcharged, anonymous libel, is the reflection which will occur to many who
read [267] these passages, especially the last. Well, I turn to other evidence which, at any
rate, is not anonymous. It is contained in a pamphlet entitled "General Booth, the Family,
and the Salvation Army, showing its Rise, Progress, and Moral and Spiritual Decline," by S.
H.  Hodges, LL.B., late Major in the Army, and formerly private secretary to General Booth
(Manchester, 1890). I recommend potential contributors to Mr.  Booth's wealth to study this
little work also. I have learned a great deal from it. Among other interesting novelties, it
tells me that Mr. Booth has discovered "the necessity of a third step or blessing, in the work
of Salvation. He said to me one day, 'Hodges, you have only two barrels to your gun; I have
three'" (p. 31). And if Mr. Hodges's description of this third barrel is correct--"giving up
your conscience" and, "for God and the army, stooping to do things which even honourable worldly
men would not consent to do" (p. 32)--it is surely calculated to bring down a good many things,
the first principles of morality among them.

Mr. Hodges gives some remarkable examples of the army practice with the "General's" new rifle.
But I must refer the curious to his instructive pamphlet. The position I am about to take up
is a serious one; and I prefer to fortify it by the help of evidence which, though some of
it may be anonymous, cannot be sneered away. And I shall [268] be believed, when I say that
nothing but a sense of the great social danger of the spread of Boothism could induce me to
revive a scandal, even though it is barely entitled to the benefit of the Statute of Limitations.

On the 7th of July, 1883, you, Sir, did the public a great service by writing a leading article
on the notorious "Eagle" case, from which I take the following extract:--

"Mr. Justice Kay refused the application, but he was induced to refuse it by means which, as
Mr. Justice Stephen justly remarked, were highly discreditable to Mr. Booth. Mr. Booth filed
an affidavit which appears totally to have misled Mr. Justice Kay, as it would have misled
any one who regarded it as a frank and honest statement by a professed teacher of religion."

When I addressed my first letter to you I had never so much as heard of the "Eagle" scandal.
But I am thankful that my perception of the inevitable tendency of all religious autocracies
towards evil was clear enough to bring about a provisional condemnation of Mr. Booth's schemes
in my mind.  Supposing that I had decided the other way, with what sort of feeling should I
have faced my friend, when I had to confess that the money had passed into the absolute control
of a person about the character of whose administration this [269] concurrence of damnatory
evidence was already extant?

I have nothing to say about Mr. Booth personally, for I know nothing. On that subject, as on
several others, I profess myself an agnostic. But, if he is, as he may be, a saint actuated
by the purest of motives, he is not the first saint who, as you have said, has shown himself
"in the ardour of prosecuting a well-meant object" to be capable of overlooking "the plain
maxims of every-day morality." If I were a Salvationist soldier, I should cry with Othello,
"Cassio, I love thee; but never more be officer of mine."

               I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                   T. H. Huxley.

                       V

The "Times," December 24th, 1890--

Sir,--If I have any strong points, finance is certainly not one of them. But the financial,
or rather fiscal, operations of the General of the Salvation Army, as they are set forth and
exemplified in "The New Papacy," possess that grand simplicity which is the mark of genius;
[270] and even I can comprehend them--or, to be more modest, I can portray them in such a manner
that every lineament, however harsh, and every shade, however dark, can be verified by published
evidence.

Suppose there is a thriving, expanding colonial town, and that, scattered among its artisans
and labourers, there is a sprinkling of Methodists, or other such ultra-evangelical good people,
doing their best, in a quiet way, to "save souls." Clearly, this is an outpost which it is
desirable to capture. "We," therefore, take measures to get up a Salvation "boom" of the ordinary
pattern. Enthusiasm is roused. A score or two of soldiers are enlisted into the ranks of the
Salvation Army. "We" select the man who promises to serve our purposes best, make a "captain"
of him, and put him in command of the "corps." He is very pleased and grateful; and indeed
he ought to be. All he has done is that he has given up his trade; that he has promised to
work at least nine hours a day in our service (none of your eight-hour nonsense for us) as
collector, bookseller, general agent, and anything else we may order him to be. "We," on the
other hand, guarantee him nothing whatever; to do so might weaken his faith and substitute
worldly for spiritual ties between us. Knowing that, if he exerts himself in a right spirit,
his labours will surely be blessed, we content ourselves with telling him that if, after all
[271] expenses are paid and our demands are satisfied each week, 25s. remains, he may take
it. And, if nothing remains, he may take that, and stay his stomach with what the faithful
may give him.  With a certain grim playfulness, we add that the value of these contributions
will be reckoned as so much salary. So long as our "captain" is successful, therefore, a beneficent
spring of cash trickles unseen into our treasury; when it begins to dry up we say, "God bless
you, dear boy," turn him adrift (with or without 2s. 4d. in his pocket), and put some other
willing horse in the shafts.

The "General," I believe, proposes, among other things, to do away with "sweating." May he
not as well set a good example by beginning at home? My little sketch, however, looks so like
a monstrous caricature that, after all, I must produce the original from the pages of my Canadian
authority. He says that a "captain" "has to pay 10 per cent. of all collections and donations
to the divisional fund for the support of his divisional officer, who has also the privilege
of arranging for such special meetings as he shall think fit, the proceeds of which he takes
away for the general needs of the division. Headquarters, too, has the right to hold such special
meetings at the corps and send around such special attractions as its wisdom sees fit, and
to take away the proceeds for the purposes it decides upon.

[272] He has to pay the rent of his building, either to headquarters or a private individual;
he has to send the whole collection of the afternoon meeting of the first Sunday in the month
to the 'Extension Fund' at headquarters; he has to pay for the heating, lighting, and cleaning
of his hall, together with such necessary repairs as may be needed; he has to provide the food,
lodging, and clothing of his cadet, if he has one; headquarters taxes him with so many copies
of the army papers each week, for which he has to pay, sold or unsold; and when he has done
this, he may take $6 (or $5, being a woman), or such proportion of it as may be left, with
which to clothe and feed himself and to pay the rent and provide for the heating and lighting
of his quarters. If he has a lieutenant he has to pay him $6 per week, or such proportion of
it as he himself gets, and share the house expenses with him. Now, it will be easily understood
that at least 60 per cent. of the stations in Canada the officer gets no money at all, and
he has to beg specially amongst his people for his house-rent and food. There are few places
in the Dominion in which the soldiers do not find their officers in all the food they need;
but it must be remembered that the value of the food so received has to be accounted for at
headquarters and entered upon the books of the corps as cash received, the amount being deducted
from any moneys that the officer is able to take from the [273] week's collections. So that,
no matter how much may be specially given, the officer cannot receive more than the value of
$6 per week. The officer cannot collect any arrears of salary, as each week has to pay its
own expenses; and if there is any surplus cash after all demands are met it must be sent to
the 'war chest' at headquarters."--"The New Papacy" (pp. 35, 36).

Evidently, Sir, "headquarters" has taken to heart the injunction about casting your bread upon
the waters. It casts the crumb of a day or two's work of an emissary, and gets back any quantity
of loaves of cash, so long as "captains" present themselves to be used up and replaced by new
victims.  What can be said of these devoted poor fellows except, O sancta simplicitas!

But it would be a great mistake to suppose that the money-gathering efficacy of Mr. Booth's
fiscal agencies is exhausted by the foregoing enumeration of their regular operations. Consider
the following edifying history of the "Rescue Home" in Toronto:--

"It is a fine building in the heart of the city; the lot cost $7,000, and a building was put
up at a cost of $7,000 more, and there is a mortgage on it amounting to half the cost of the
whole. The land to-day would probably fetch double its original price, and every year enhances
its value....In the first five months of its [274] existence this institution received from
the public an income of $1,812 70c.; out of this $600 was paid to headquarters for rent, $590
52c. was spent upon the building in various ways, and the balance of $622 18c. paid the salaries
of the staff and supported the inmates" (pp. 24, 25).

Said I not truly that Mr. Booth's fisc bears the stamp of genius? Who else could have got the
public to buy him a "corner lot," put a building upon it, pay all its working expenses: and
then, not content with paying him a heavy rent for the use of the handsome present they had
made him, they say not a word against his mortgaging it to half its value? And, so far as any
one knows, there is nothing to stop headquarters from selling the whole estate tomorrow, and
using the money as the "General" may direct.

Once more listen to the author of "The New Papacy," who affirms that "out of the funds given
by the Dominion for the evangelization of the people by means of the Salvation Army, one sixth
had been spent in the extension of the Kingdom of God, and the other five sixths had been invested
in valuable property, all handed over to Mr. Booth and his heirs and assigns, as we have already
stated" (p. 26).

And this brings me to the last point upon which I wish to touch. The answer to all inquiries
as to what has become of the enormous [275] personal and real estate which has been given over
to Mr. Booth is that it is held "in trust." The supporters of Mr. Booth may feel justified
in taking that statement "on trust." I do not. Anyhow, the more completely satisfactory this
"trust" is, the less can any man who asks the public to put blind faith in his integrity and
his wisdom object to acquaint them exactly with its provisions. Is the trust drawn up in favour
of the Salvation Army? But what is the legal status of the Salvation Army? Have the soldiers
any claim?  Certainly not. Have the officers any legal interest in the "trust"? Surely not.
The "General" has taken good care to insist on their renouncing all claims as a condition of
their appointment. Thus, to all appearance, the army, as a legal person, is identical with
Mr. Booth. And, in that case, any "trust" ostensibly for the benefit of the army is--what shall
we say that is at once accurate and polite?

I conclude with these plain questions--Will Mr. Booth take counsel's opinion as to whether
there is anything in such legal arrangements as he has at present made which prevents him from
disposing of the wealth he has accumulated at his own will and pleasure? Will anybody be in
a position to set either the civil or the criminal law in motion against him or his successors
if he or they choose to spend every farthing in ways very different from those contemplated
by the donors?

[276] I may add that a careful study of the terms of a "Declaration of Trust by William Booth
in favour of the Christian Mission," made in 1878, has not enabled persons of much greater
competence than myself to answer these questions satisfactorily.*

                 I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                     T. H. Huxley.

    * See Preface to this volume, pp. ix-xiii.

On December 24th a letter appeared in the "Times" signed "J. S. Trotter," in which the following
passages appear:--

"It seems a pity to put a damper on the spirits of those who agree with Professor Huxley in
his denunciation of General Booth and all his works. May I give a few particulars as to the
'book' which was published in Canada? I had the pleasure of an interview with the author of
a book written in Canada. The book was printed at Toronto, and two copies only struck off by
the printers; one of these copies was stolen from the printer, and the quotation sent to you
by Professor Huxley was inserted in the book, and is consequently a forgery. The book was published
without the consent and against the will of the author.

[277] "So the quotation is not only 'a bitter, overcharged anonymous libel,' as Professor Huxley
intimates, but a forgery as well. As to Mr. Hodges, it seems to me to be simply trifling with
your readers to bring him in as an authority. He was turned out of the army, out of kindness
taken on again, and again dismissed. If this had happened to one of your staff, would his opinion
of the 'Times' as a newspaper be taken for gospel?"

But in the "Times" of December 29th Mr. J. S. Trotter writes:--

"I find I was mistaken in saying, in my letter of Wednesday, to the 'Times' that Mr. Hodges
was dismissed from the service of General Booth, and regret any inconvenience the statement
may have caused to Mr. Hodges."

And on December 30th the "Times" published a letter from Mr. Hodges in which he says that Mr.
Trotter's statements as they regard himself "are the very reverse of truth.--I was never turned
out of the Salvation Army. Nor, so far as I was made acquainted with General Booth's motives,
was I taken on again out of kindness. In order to rejoin the Salvation Army, I resigned the
position of manager in a mill where I was in [278] receipt of a salary of [Pounds] 250 per
annum, with house-rent and one third of the profits. Instead of this Mr. Booth allowed me [Pounds]
2 per week and house-rent."

                 VI

The "Times," December 26th, 1890

Sir,--I am much obliged to Mr. J. S. Trotter for the letter which you published this morning.
It furnishes evidence, which I much desired to possess on the following points:--

   1. The author of "The New Papacy" is a responsible, trustworthy
person; otherwise Mr. Trotter would not speak of having had "the
pleasure of an interview" with him.

   2. After this responsible person had taken the trouble to write a
pamphlet of sixty-four closely printed pages, some influence was
brought to bear upon him, the effect of which was that he refused his
consent to its publication. Mr. Trotter's excellent information will
surely enable him to tell us what influence that was.

   3. How does Mr. Trotter know that any passage I have quoted is an
interpolation? Does he possess that other copy of the "two" which
alone, as he affirms, were printed?

[279] 4. If so, he will be able to say which of the passages I have cited is genuine and which
is not; and whether the tenor of the whole uninterpolated copy differs in any important respect
from that of the copy I have quoted.

It will be interesting to hear what Mr. J. S. Trotter has to say upon these points. But the
really important thing which he has done is that he has testified, of his own knowledge, that
the anonymous author of "The New Papacy" is no mere irresponsible libeller, but a person of
whom even an ardent Salvationist has to speak with respect.

            I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                T. H. Huxley.

[I may add that the unfortunate Mr. Trotter did me the further service of eliciting the letter
from Mr. Hodges referred to on p. 277--which sufficiently establishes that gentleman's credit,
and leads me to attach full weight to his evidence about the third barrel.]

     January, 1891.

[280]

                  VII

The "Times," December 27th, 1890

SIR,--In making use of the only evidence of the actual working of Mr. Booth's autocratic government
accessible to me, I was fully aware of the slippery nature of the ground upon which I was treading.
For, as I pointed out in my first letter, "no personal habit more surely degrades the conscience
and the intellect than blind and unhesitating obedience to unlimited authority." Now we have
it, on Mr. Booth's own showing that every officer of his has undertaken to "obey without questioning
or gainsaying the orders from headquarters." And the possible relations of such orders to honour
and veracity are demonstrated not only by the judicial deliverance on Mr. Booth's affidavit
in the "Eagle" case, which I have already cited; not only by Mr. Bramwell Booth's admission
before Mr. Justice Lopes that he had stated what was "not quite correct" because he had "promised
Mr. Stead not to divulge" the facts of the case (the "Times," November 4th, 1885); but by the
following passage in Mr. Hodges's account of the reasons of his withdrawal from the Salvation
Army:--

"The general and Chief did not and could [281] not deny doing these things; the only question
was this, Was it right to practise this deception? These points of difference were fully discussed
between myself and the Chief of the Staff on my withdrawal, especially the Leamington incident,
which was the one that finally drove me to decision. I had come to the conclusion, from the
first, that they had acted as they supposed with a single eye to the good of God's cause, and
had persuaded myself that the things were, as against the devil, right to be done, that as
in battle one party captured and turned the enemy's own guns upon them, so, as they were fighting
against the devil, it would be fair to use against him his weapons. And I wrote to this effect
to the "General" (p. 63)."

Now, I do not wish to say anything needlessly harsh, but I ask any prudent man these questions.
Could I, under these circumstances, trust any uncorroborated statement emanating from headquarters,
or made by the General's order? Had I any reason to doubt the truth of Mr. Hodges's naive confession
of the corrupting influence of Mr. Booth's system? And did it not behove me to pick my way
carefully through the mass of statements before me, many of them due to people whose moral
sense might, by possibility, have been as much blunted by the army discipline in the [282]
use of the weapons of the devil as Mr. Hodges affirms that his was?

Therefore, in my third letter, I commenced my illustrations of the practical working of Boothism
with the evidence of Mr. Redstone, fortified and supplemented by that of a non-Salvationist,
Dr. Cunningham Geikie. That testimony has not been challenged, and, until it is, I shall assume
that it cannot be. In my fourth letter, I cited a definite statement by Mr. Hodges in evidence
of the Jesuitical principles of headquarters. What sort of answer is it to tell us that Mr.
Hodges was dismissed the army? A child might expect that some such red herring would be drawn
across the trail; and, in anticipation of the stale trick, I added the strong prima facie evidence
of the trustworthiness of my witness, in this particular, which is afforded by the "Eagle"
case. It was not until I wrote my fourth letter to you, Sir--until the exploitation of the
"captains" and the Jesuitry of headquarters could be proved up to the hilt--that I ventured
to have recourse to "The New Papacy." So far as the pamphlet itself goes, this is an anonymous
work; and, for sufficient reasons, I did not choose to go beyond what was to be found between
its covers. To any one accustomed to deal with the facts of evolution, the Boothism of "The
New Papacy" was merely the natural and necessary development of the Boothism of Mr. Redstone's
case and of the [283] "Eagle" case. Therefore, I felt fully justified in using it, at the same
time carefully warning my readers that it must be taken with due caution.

Mr. Trotter's useful letter admits that such a book was written by a person with whom he had
the "pleasure of an interview," and that a version of it (interpolated, according to his assertion)
was published against the will of the author. Hence I am justified in believing that there
is a foundation of truth in certain statements, some of which have long been in my possession,
but which for lack of Mr. Trotter's valuable corroboration I have refrained from using. The
time is come when I can set forth some of the heads of this information, with the request that
Mr. Trotter, who knows all about the business, will be so good as to point out any error that
there may be in them. I am bound to suppose that his sole object, like mine, is the elucidation
of the truth, and to assume his willingness to help me therein to the best of his ability.

   1. "The author of 'The New Papacy' is a Mr. Sumner, a person of
perfect respectability, and greatly esteemed in Toronto, who held a
high position in the Army. When he left, a large public meeting,
presided over by a popular Methodist minister, passed a vote of
sympathy with him."

[284] Is this true or false?

   2. "On Saturday last, about noon, Mr. Sumner, the author of the
book, and Mr. Fred Perry, the Salvation Army printer, accompanied by a
lawyer, went down to Messrs. Imrie and Graham's establishment, and
asked for all the manuscript, stereotype plates, &c., of the book. Mr.
Sumner explained that the book had been sold to the Army, and, on a
cheque for the amount due being given, the printing material was
delivered up."

Did these paragraphs appear in the "Toronto Telegram" of April 24th, 1889, or did they not?
Are the statements they contain true or false?

3. "Public interest in the fate or probable outcome of that mysterious book called 'The New
Papacy; or, Behind the Scenes in the Salvation Army,' continues unabated, though the line of
proceedings by the publisher and his solicitor, Mr. Smoke, of Watson, Thorne, Smoke, and Masten,
has not been altered since yesterday. The book, no doubt, will be issued in some form. So far
as known, only one complete copy remains, and the whereabouts of this is a secret which will
be profoundly kept. It is safe to say that if the Commissioner kept on guessing until the next
anniversary, he would not strike the secluded [285] location of the one volume among five thousand
which escaped, when he and his assistant, Mr. Fred Perry, believed they had cast every vestige
of the forbidden work into the fiery furnace. On Tuesday last, when the discovery was made
that a copy of 'The New Papacy' was in existence, Publisher Britnell, of Yonge Street, was
at once the suspected holder, and in a short time his book-store was the resort of army agents
sent to reconnoitre" ("Toronto News," April 28th, 1889).

Is this a forgery, or is it not? Is it in substance true or false?

When Mr. Trotter has answered these inquiries categorically, we may proceed to discuss the
question of interpolations in Mr. Sumner's book.

          I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                              T. H. Huxley.

[On the 26th of December a letter, signed J. T. Cunningham, late Fellow of University College,
Oxford, called forth the following commentary.]

[286]

                VIII

The "Times," December 29th, 1890--

Sir,--If Mr. Cunningham doubts the efficacy of the struggle for existence, as a factor in social
conditions, he should find fault with Mr. Booth and not with me.

"I am labouring under no delusion as to the possibility of inaugurating the millennium by my
social specific. In the struggle of life the weakest will go to the wall, and there are so
many weak. The fittest in tooth and claw will survive. All that we can do is to soften the
lot of the unfit, and make their suffering less horrible than it is at present" ("In Darkest
England," p. 44).

That is what Mr. Cunningham would have found if he had read Mr. Booth's book with attention.
Mr.  [287] Cunningham's physiological studies will have informed him that the process of "shutting
the eyes," in the literal sense of the words, is not always wilful; and I propose to illustrate,
by the crucial instance his own letter furnishes, that the "shutting of the eyes" of the mind
to the obvious consequences of accepted propositions may also be involuntary. At least, I hope so.

   1. "Sooner or later," says Mr. Cunningham, "the population problem
will block the way once more." What does this mean, except that
multiplication, excessive in relation to the contemporaneous means of
support, will create a severe competition for those means? And this
seems to me to be a pretty accurate "reflection of the conceptions of
Malthus" and the other poor benighted folks of a past generation at
whom Mr. Cunningham sneers.

   2. By way of leaving no doubt upon this subject, Mr. Cunningham
further tells us, "The struggle for existence is always going on, of
course; let us thank Darwin for making us realize it." It is pleasant
to meet with a little gratitude to Darwin among the epigoni who are
squabbling over the heritage he conquered for them, but Mr.
Cunningham's personal expression of that feeling is hasty. For it is
obvious that he has not "realized" the significance of Darwin's
teaching--indeed, I fail to discover in Mr.  Cunningham's letter any
sign that he has even "realized" what [288] he would be at. If the
"struggle for existence is always going on"; and if, as I suppose will
be granted, industrial competition is one phase of that struggle, I
fail to see how my conclusion that it is sheer wickedness to tell
ignorant men that "envy" is a corner-stone of competition can be
disputed.

Mr. Cunningham has followed the lead of that polished and instructed person, Mr. Ben Tillett,
in rebuking me for (as the associates say) attacking Mr.  Booth's personal character. Of course,
when I was writing, I did not doubt that this very handy, though not too clean, weapon would
be used by one or other of Mr. Booth's supporters. And my action was finally decided by the
following considerations: I happen to be a member of one of the largest life insurance societies.
There is a vacancy in the directory at present, for which half a dozen gentlemen are candidates.
Now, I said to myself, supposing that one of these gentlemen (whose pardon I humbly beg for
starting the hypothesis), say Mr. A., in his administrative capacity and as a man of business,
has been the subject of such observations as a Judge on the Bench bestowed upon Mr. Booth,
is he a person for whom I can properly vote? And, if I find, when I go to the meeting of the
policy-holders, that most of them know nothing of this and other evidences of what, by the
mildest judgment, must be termed Mr. A.'s unfitness for administrative [289] responsibilities,
am I to let them remain in their ignorance? I leave the answer and its application to men of
sense and integrity.

The mention of Mr. Cunningham's ally reminds me that I have omitted to thank Mr. Tillett for
his very useful and instructive letter; and I hasten to repair a neglect which I assure Mr.
Tillett was more apparent than real. Mr.  Tillett's letter is dated December 20th. On the 21st
the following pregnant (however unconscious) commentary upon it appeared in "Reynolds's Newspaper":-

"I have always maintained that the Salvation Army is one of the mightiest Socialistic agencies
in the country; and now Professor Huxley comes in to confirm that view. How could it be otherwise?
The fantastic religious side of Salvationism will disappear in the course of time, and what
will be left?  A large number of men and women who have been organized, disciplined, and taught
to look for something better than their present condition, and who have become public speakers
and not afraid of ridicule. There you have the raw materials for a Socialist army."

Mr. Ben Tillett evidently knows Latin enough to construe proximus ardet.

I trust that the public will not allow themselves to be led away by the false issues which
are [290] dangled before them. A man really may love his fellow-men; cherish any form of Christianity
he pleases; and hold not only that Darwinism is "tottering to its fall," but, if he pleases,
the equally sane belief that it never existed; and yet may feel it his duty to oppose, to the
best of his capacity, despotic Socialism in all its forms, and, more particularly, in its Boothian
disguise.

             I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                                 T.H. Huxley.

[Persons who have not had the advantage of a classical education might fairly complain of my
use of the word epigoni. To say truth, I had been reading Droysen's "Geschichte des Hellenismus,"
and the familiar historical title slipped out unawares. In replying to me, however, the late
"Fellow of University College," Oxford, declares he had to look the word out in a Lexicon.
I commend the fact to the notice of the combatants over the desirability of retaining the present
compulsory modicum of Greek in our Universities.]

[291]

                  IX.

The "Times," December 30th, 1890

Sir,--I am much obliged to Messrs. Ranger, Burton, and Matthews for their prompt answer to
my questions. I presume it applies to all money collected by the agency of the Salvation Army,
though not specifically given for the purposes of the "Christian Mission" named in the deed
of 1878; to all sums raised by mortgage upon houses and land so given; and, further, to funds
subscribed for Mr. Booth's various projects, which have no apparent reference to the objects
of the "Christian Mission" as defined in the deed.  Otherwise, to use a phrase which has become
classical, "it does not assist us much." But I must leave these points to persons learned in
the law.

And, indeed, with many thanks to you, Sir, for the amount of valuable space which you have
allowed me to occupy, I now propose to leave the whole subject. My sole purpose in embarking
upon an enterprise which was extremely distasteful to me was to prevent the skilful "General,"
or rather "Generals," who devised the plan of campaign from sweeping all before them with a
rush. I found the pass already held by such stout defenders as Mr.  Loch and the Dean [292]
of Wells, and, with your powerful help, we have given time for the reinforcements, sure to
be sent by the abundant, though somewhat slowly acting, common sense of our countrymen, to come up.

I can no longer be useful, and I return to more congenial occupations.

        I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                            T. H. Huxley.

The following letter appeared in the "Times" of January 2nd, 1891:--

"Dear Mr. Tillett,--I have not had patience to read Professor Huxley's letters. The existence
of hunger, nakedness, misery, 'death from insufficient food,' even of starvation, is certain,
and no agency as yet reaches it. How can any man hinder or discourage the giving of food or
help?  Why is the house called a workhouse? Because it is for those who cannot work? No, because
it was the house to give work or bread. The very name is an argument. I am very sure what Our
Lord and His Apostles would do if they were in London. Let us be thankful even to have a will
to do the same.

"Yours faithfully, Henry E. Card. Manning."

[293]

                    X.

The "Times," January 3rd, 1891

SIR,--In my old favourite, "The Arabian Nights," the motive of the whole series of delightful
narratives is that the sultan, who refuses to attend to reason, can be got to listen to a story.
May I try whether Cardinal Manning is to be reached in the same way? When I was attending the
meeting of the British Association in Belfast nearly forty years ago, I had promised to breakfast
with the eminent scholar Dr. Hincks. Having been up very late the previous night, I was behind
time; so, hailing an outside car, I said to the driver as I jumped on, "Now drive fast, I am
in a hurry." Whereupon he whipped up his horse and set off at a hand-gallop. Nearly jerked
off my seat, I shouted, "My good friend, do you know where I want to go?" "No, yer honner,"
said the driver, "but, any way, I am driving fast." I have never forgotten this object-lesson
in the dangers of ill-regulated enthusiasm. We are all invited to jump on to the Salvation
Army car, which Mr. Booth is undoubtedly driving very fast. Some of us have a firm conviction,
not only that he is taking a very different direction from that in which we wish to go, but
that, before long, car and driver will come to grief. Are we to accept [294] the invitation,
even at the bidding of the eminent person who appears to think himself entitled to pledge the
credit of "Our Lord and His Apostles" in favour of Boothism?

   I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                       T. H. Huxley.

                XI.

The "Times," January 13th, 1891

SIR,--A letter from Mr. Booth-Clibborn, dated January 3rd, appeared in the "Times" of yesterday.
This elaborate document occupies three columns of small print--space enough, assuredly, for
an effectual reply to the seven letters of mine to which the writer refers, if any such were
forthcoming.  Mr. Booth-Clibborn signs himself "Commissioner of the Salvation Army for France
and Switzerland," but he says that he accepts my "challenge" without the knowledge of his chiefs.
Considering the self-damaging character of his letter, it was, perhaps, hardly necessary to
make that statement.

Mr. "Commissioner" Booth-Clibborn speaks of my "challenge." I presume that he refers to my
request for information about the authorship and fate of "The New Papacy," in the letter [295]
published in the "Times" on December 27th, 1890. The "Commissioner" deals with this matter
in paragraph No. 4 of his letter; and I observe, with no little satisfaction, that he does
not venture to controvert any one of the statements of my witnesses. He tacitly admits that
the author of "The New Papacy" was a person "greatly esteemed in Toronto," and that he held
"a high position in the army"; further, that the Canadian "Commissioner" thought it worth while
to pay the printer's bill, in order that the copies already printed off might be destroyed
and the pamphlet effectually suppressed. Thus the essential facts of the case are admitted
and established beyond question.

How does Mr. Booth-Clibborn try to explain them away?

"Mr. Sumner, who wrote the little book in a hot fit, soon regretted it (as any man would do
whose conscience showed him in a calmer moment when his 'respectability' returned with his
repentance, that he had grossly misrepresented), and just before it appeared offered to order
its suppression if the army would pay the costs already incurred, and which he was unable to bear."

"The New Papacy" fills sixty closely printed duodecimo pages. It is carefully written, and
for the most part in studiously moderate language; moreover, it contains many precise details
and [296] figures, the ascertainment of which must have taken much time and trouble. Yet, forsooth,
it was written in "a hot fit."

I sincerely hope, for the sake of his own credit, that Mr. "Commissioner" Booth-Clibborn does
not know as much about this melancholy business as I do.  My hands are unfortunately tied,
and I am not at liberty to use all the information in my possession. I must content myself
with quoting the following passage from the preface to "The New Papacy":--

"It has not been without considerable thought and a good deal of urging that the following
pages have been given to the public. But though we would have shrunk from a labour so distasteful,
and have gladly avoided a notoriety anything but pleasant to the feelings, or conducive to
our material welfare, we have felt that in the interests of the benevolent public, in the interests
of religion, in the interests of a band of devoted men and women whose personal ends are being
defeated, and the fruit of whose labour is being destroyed, and, above all, in the interests
of that future which lies before the Salvation Army itself, if purged and purified in its executive
and returned to its original position in the ranks of Canadian Christian effort, it is no more
than our duty to throw such light as we are able upon its true inwardness, and with that object
and for the [297] furtherance of those ends we offer our pages to the public view."

The preface is dated April 1889. According to the statement in the "Toronto Telegram" which
Mr. "Commissioner" Booth-Clibborn does not dare to dispute, his Canadian fellow-"Commissioner"
bought and destroyed the whole edition of "The New Papacy" about the end of the third week
in April. It is clear that the writer of the paragraph quoted from the preface was well out
of a "hot fit," if he had ever been in one, while he had not entered on the stage of repentance
within three weeks of that time. Mr. "Commissioner"

Mr. "Commissioner" Booth-Clibborn says that when "London headquarters heard of the affair,
it disapproved of the action of the Commissioner." That circumstance indicates that headquarters
is not wholly devoid of intelligence; but it has nothing to do with the value of Mr. Sumner's
evidence, which is all I am concerned about. Very likely London headquarters will disapprove
of its French [298] "Commissioner's" present action. But what then? The upshot of all this
is that Mr. Booth-Clibborn has made as great a blunder as simple Mr. Trotter did. The pair
of Balaams greatly desired to curse, but have been compelled to bless. They have, between them,
completely justified my reliance on Mr. Sumner as a perfectly trustworthy witness; and neither
of them has dared to challenge the accuracy of one solitary statement made by that worthy gentleman,
whose full story I hope some day or other to see set before the public. Then the true causes
of his action will be made known.

Paragraph 2 of the "Commissioner's" letter says many things, but not much about Mr. Hodges.
The columns of the "Times" recently showed that Mr. Hodges was able to compel an apology from
Mr. Trotter. I leave it to him to deal with the "Commissioner."

As to the "Eagle" case, treated of in paragraph No. 3, a gentleman well versed in the law,
who was in court during the hearing of the appeal, has assured me that the argument was purely
technical; that the facts were very slightly gone into; and that, so far as he knows, no dissenting
comment was made on the strictures of the Judge before whom the case first came.  Moreover,
in the judgment of the Master of the Rolls, fully recorded in the "Times" of February 14th,
1884, the following passages occur:--

[299] "The case had been heard by a learned Judge, who had exercised his discretion upon it,
and the Court would not interfere with his discretion unless they could see that he was wrong.
The learned Judge had taken a strong view of the conduct of the defendant, but nevertheless
had said that he would have given relief if he could have seen how far protection and compensation
could be given. And if this Court differed from him in that view, and could give relief without
forfeiture, they would be acting on his own principle in doing so. Certain suggestions had
been made with that view, and the Court had to consider the case under all the circumstances....
He himself (the Master of the Rolls) considered that it was probable the defendant, with his
principles, had intended to destroy the property as a public-house, and that it was not right
thus to take property under a covenant to keep it up as a public-house, intending to destroy
it as such.  He did not, however, think this was enough to deprive him of all relief. The defendant
could only expect severe terms."

Yet, Sir, Mr. "Commissioner" Booth-Clibborn, this high official of the Salvation Army, has
the audacity to tell the public that if I had made inquiries I should have found that "in the
Court of Appeal the Judge reversed the decision of his predecessor as regards seven eighths
of the property, and the General was declared to have acted [300] all along with straight forwardness
and good faith."

But the nature of Mr. "Commissioner" Booth-Clibborn's conceptions of straightforwardness and
good faith is so marvellously illustrated by the portions of his letter with which I have dealt
that I doubt not his statements are quite up to the level of the "Army" Regulations and Instructions
in regard to those cardinal virtues. As I pointed out must be the case, the slave is subdued
to that he works in.

For myself, I must confess that the process of wading through Mr. "Commissioner's" verbose
and clumsy pleadings has given me a "hot fit," which, I undertake to say, will be followed
by not so much as a passing shiver of repentance. And it is under the influence of the genial
warmth diffused through the frame, on one of those rare occasions when one may be "angry and
sin not," that I infringe my resolution to trouble you with no more letters. On reflection,
I am convinced that it is undesirable that the public should be misled, for even a few days,
by misrepresentations so serious.

I am copiously abused for speaking of the Jesuitical methods of the superior officials of the
Salvation Army. But the following facts have not been, and, I believe, cannot be, denied:--

   1. Mr. Booth's conduct in the "Eagle" case has been censured by two
of the Judges.

[301] 2. Mr. Bramwell Booth admitted before Mr. Justice Lopes that he had made an untrue statement
because of a promise he had made to Mr. Stead.*

    * This statement has been disputed, but not yet publicly. (See p. 305.)

And I have just proved that Mr. "Commissioner" Booth-Clibborn asserts the exact contrary of
that which your report of the judgment of the Master of the Rolls tells us that distinguished
judge said.

Under these circumstances, I think that my politeness in applying no harder adjective than
"Jesuitical" to these proceedings is not properly appreciated.

      I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                          T. H. Huxley.

                XII.

The "Times," January 22nd, 1891

SIR,--I think that your readers will be interested in the accompanying opinion, written in
consultation with an eminent Chancery Queen's Counsel, with which I have been favoured. It
will be observed that this important legal deliverance [302] justifies much stronger language
than any which I have applied to the only security (?) for the proper administration of the
funds in Mr. Booth's hands which appears to be in existence.

I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
                           T. H. Huxley.

       1, Dr. Johnson's Buildings, Temple, E.C.,
                  January 14, 1891.

MR. BOOTH'S DECLARATION OF TRUST DEED, 1878.

"I am of opinion, subject to the question whether there may be any provision in the Charitable
Trusts Acts which can be made available for enforcing some scheme for the appropriation of
the property, and with regard to the real and leasehold properties whether the conveyances
and leases are not altogether void, as frauds on the Mortmain Acts, that nothing can be done
to control or to interfere with Booth in the disposition or application of the properties or
moneys purported to be affected by the deed.

"As to the properties vested in Booth himself, it appears to me that such are placed absolutely
under his power and control both as to the disposal and application thereof, and that there
are no trusts for any specific purposes declared which [303] could be enforced, and that there
are no defined persons nor classes of persons who can claim to be entitled to the benefits
of them, or at whose instance they could be enforced by any legal process.

"As to the properties (if any) vested in trustees appointed by Booth, it appears to me that
the only person who has a locus standi to enforce these trusts is Booth himself, and that he
would have absolute power over the trusts and the property, and might deal with the property
as he pleased, and that, as in the former case, nothing could be done in the way of enforcing
any trusts against him.

"As to the moneys contributed or raised by mortgage for the general purposes of the mission,
it appears to me that Booth may expend them as he pleases, without being subject to any legal
control, and that he cannot even be compelled to publish any balance-sheets.

"Whether there are any provisions in the Charitable Trusts Acts which could be made available
for enforcing some scheme for the application of the property or funds is a question to which
I should require to give a closer consideration should it become necessary to go into it; but
at present, after perusing these Acts, and especially 16 and 17 Vict. c. 137 and 18 and 19
Vict. c. 124, I cannot see how they could be made applicable to the trusts as declared in this
deed.

[304] "As to the Mortmain Acts, the matter is clearly charitable, and unless in the conveyances
and leases to Booth, or to the trustees (if any) named by him, all the provisions of the Acts
have been complied with, and the deeds have been enrolled under the Acts, they would be void.
It is probable, however, that every conveyance and lease has been taken without disclosing
any charitable trust, for the purpose of preventing it from being void on the face of it. It
is to be noted that the deed is a mere deed poll by Booth himself, without any other party
to it, who, as a contracting party, would have a right to enforce it.

"Whether there are any objects of the trust I cannot say. If there is, as the recital indicates,
a society of enrolled members called 'The Christian Mission,' those members would be objects
of the trust, but then, it appears to me, Booth has entire control and determination of the
application. And, as to the trusts enuring for the benefit of the 'Salvation Army,' I am not
aware what is the constitution of the 'Salvation Army,' but there is no reference whatever
to any such body in the deed. I have understood the army as being merely the missionaries,
and not the society of worshippers.

"If there is no Christian Mission Society of enrolled members, then there are no objects of
the trust. The trusts are purely religious, and trading is entirely beyond its purposes. Booth
can [305] 'give away' the property, simply because there is no one who has any right to prevent
his doing so.

"Ernest Hatton."

It is probably my want of legal knowledge which prevents me from appreciating the value of
the professed corrections of Mr. Hatton's opinion contained in the letters of Messrs. Ranger,
Burton, and Matthews, "Times," January 28th and 29th, 1891.

The note on page 301 refers to a correspondence, incomplete at the time fixed for the publication
of my pamphlet, the nature of which is sufficiently indicated by the subjoined extracts from
Mr. Stead's letter in the "Times" of January 20th, and from my reply in the "Times" of January
24th. Referring to the paragraphs numbered 1, 2, at the end of my letter XI., Mr. Stead says:--

"On reading this, I at once wrote to Professor Huxley, stating that, as he had mentioned my
name, I was justified in intervening to explain that, so far as the second count in his indictment
went--for the Eagle dispute is no concern of mine--he had been misled by an error in the reports
of the case which appeared in the daily papers [306] of November 4, 1885. I have his reply
to-day, saying that I had better write to you direct. May I ask you, then, seeing that my name
has been brought into the affair, to state that, as I was in the dock when Mr. Bramwell Booth
was in the witness-box, I am in a position to give the most unqualified denial to the statement
as to the alleged admission on his part of falsehood? Nothing was heard in Court of any such
admission. Neither the prosecuting counsel nor the Judge who tried the case ever referred to
it, although it would obviously have had a direct bearing on the credit of the witness; and
the jury, by acquitting Mr.  Bramwell Booth, showed that they believed him to be a witness
of truth. But fortunately the facts can be verified beyond all gainsaying by a reference to
the official shorthand-writer's report of the evidence. During the hearing of the case for
the prosecution, Inspector Borner was interrupted by the Judge, who said:--

"'I want to ask you a question. During the whole of that conversation, did Booth in any way
suggest that that child had been sold?' Borner replied:--

"'Not at that interview, my Lord.'

"It was to this that Mr. Bramwell Booth referred when, after examination, cross-examination,
[307] and re-examination, during which no suggestion had been made that he had ever made the
untrue statement now alleged against him, he asked and received leave from the Judge to make
the following explanation, which I quote from the official report:--

"'Will you allow me to explain a matter mentioned yesterday in reference to a question asked
by your Lordship some days ago with respect to one matter connected with my conduct? Your Lordship
asked, I think it was Inspector Borner, whether I had said to him at either of our interviews
that the child was sold by her parents, and he replied "No." That is quite correct; I did not
say so to him, and what I wish to say now is that I had been specially requested by Mr. Stead,
and had given him a promise, that I would not under any circumstances divulge the fact of that
sale to any person which would ma ke it at all probable that any trouble would be brought upon
the persons who had taken part in this investigation.' (Central Criminal Court Reports, Vol.
CII., part 612, pp. 1,035-6.)

"In the daily papers of the following day this statement was misreported as follows:--

"'I wish to explain, in regard to your Lordship's condemnation of my having said "No" to [308]
Inspector Borner when he asked me whether the child had been sold by her parents--the reason
why I stated what was not correct was that I had promised Mr. Stead not to divulge the fact
of the sale to any person which would make it probable that any trouble should be brought on
persons taking part in this proceeding.'

"Hence the mistake into which Professor Huxley has unwittingly fallen.

"I may add that, so far from the statement never having been challenged for five years, it
was denounced as 'a remarkably striking lie' in the 'War Cry' of November 14th, and again the
same official organ of the Salvation Army of November 18th specifically adduced this misreport
as an instance of 'the most disgraceful way' in which the reports of the trial were garbled
by some of the papers. What, then, becomes of one of the two main pillars of Professor Huxley's
argument?"

In my reply, I point out that, on the 10th of January, Mr. Stead addressed to me a letter,
which commences thus: "I see in the 'Times' of this morning that you are about to republish
your letters on Booth's book."

I replied to this letter on the 12th of January:--

[309] "Dear Mr. Stead,--I charge Mr. Bramwell Booth with nothing. I simply quote the 'Times'
report, the accuracy of which, so far as I know, has never been challenged by Mr. Booth. I
say I quote the 'Times' and not Mr. Hodges,* because I took some pains about the verification
of Mr. Hodges's citation.

    * This is a slip of the pen. Mr. Hodges had nothing to do
    with the citation of which I made use.

"I should have thought it rather appertained to Mr. Bramwell Booth to contradict a statement
which refers, not to what you heard, but to what he said. However, I am the last person to
wish to give circulation to a story which may not be quite correct; and I will take care, if
you have no objection (your letter is marked 'private'), to make public as much of your letter
as relates to the point to which you have called my attention.

           "I am, yours very faithfully,
                          T. H. Huxley."

To this Mr. Stead answered, under date of January 13th, 1891:--

"Dear Professor Huxley,--I thank you for your letter of the 12th inst. I am quite sure you
would not wish to do any injustice in this matter. But, instead of publishing any extract from
my letter, might I ask you to read the passage as it [310] appears in the verbatim report of
the trial which was printed day by day, and used by counsel on both sides, and by the Judge
during the case? I had hoped to have got you a copy to-day, but find that I was too late. I
shall have it first thing to-morrow morning. You will find that it is quite clear, and conclusively
disposes of the alleged admission of untruthfulness. Again thanking you for your courtesy,

           "I am, yours faithfully,
                      W. T. Stead."

Thus it appears that the letter which Mr. Stead wrote to me on the 13th of January does not
contain one word of that which he ways it contains, in the statement which appears in the "Times"
to-day. Moreover, the letter of mine to which Mr. Stead refers in his first communication to
me is not the letter which appeared on the 13th, as he states, but that which you published
on December 27th, 1890. Therefore, it is not true that Mr. Stead wrote "at once." On the contrary,
he allowed nearly a fortnight to elapse before he addressed me on the 10th of January 1891.
Furthermore, Mr. Stead suppresses the fact that, since the 13th of January, he has had in his
possession my offer to publish his version of the story; and he leads the reader to suppose
that my only answer was that he "had better write to [311] you direct. All the while, Mr. Stead
knows perfectly well that I was withheld from making public use of his letter of the 10th by
nothing but my scruples about using a document which was marked "private"; and that he did
not give me leave to quote his letter of the 10th of January until after he had written that
which appeared yesterday.

And I add:--

As to the subject-matter of Mr. Stead's letter, the point which he wishes to prove appears
to be this--that Mr. Bramwell Booth did not make a false statement, but that he withheld from
the officers of justice, pursuing a most serious criminal inquiry, a fact of grave importance,
which lay within his own knowledge. And this because he had promised Mr. Stead to keep the
fact secret. In short, Mr. Bramwell Booth did not say what was wrong; but he did what was wrong.

I will take care to give every weight to the correction. Most people, I think, will consider
that one of the "main pillars of my argument," as Mr.  Stead is pleased to call them, has become
very much strengthened.

[312]

        LEGAL OPINIONS RESPECTING
         "GENERAL" BOOTH'S ACTS.

In referring to the course of action adopted by "General" Booth and Mr.  Bramwell Booth in
respect of their legal obligations to other persons, or to the criminal and civil law, I have
been as careful as I was bound to be, to put any difficulties suggested by mere lay commonsense
in an interrogative or merely doubtful form; and to confine myself, for any positive expressions,
to citations from published declarations of the judges before whom the acts of "General" Booth
came; from reports of the Law Courts; and from the deliberate opinions of legal experts. I
have now some further remarks to make on these topics.

   I. The observations at p. 305 express, with due reserve, the
impression which the counsel's opinions, quoted by "General" Booth's
solicitors, made on my mind. They were written and sent to the printer
before I saw the letter from a "Barrister NOT Practising on the Common
Law Side," and those from Messrs. Clarke and Calkin and Mr. George
Kebbell, which appeared in the "Times" of February 3rd and 4th.

These letters fully bear out the conclusion which I had formed, but which it would have [313]
been presumptuous on my part to express, that the opinions cited by "General" Booth's solicitors
were like the famous broken tea-cups "wisely ranged for show"; and that, as Messrs. Clarke
and Calkin say, they "do not at all meet the main points on which Mr. Hatton advised." I do
not think that any one who reads attentively the able letter of "A Barrister NOT Practicing
on the Common Law Side" will arrive at any other conclusion; or who will not share the very
natural desire of Mr. Kebbell to be provided with clear and intelligible answers to the following
inquiries:--

   (1) Does the trust deed by its operation empower any one legally to
call upon Mr. Booth to account for the application of the funds?

   (2) In the event of the funds not being properly accounted for, is
any one, and, if so, who, in a position to institute civil or criminal
proceedings against any one, and whom, in respect of such refusal or
neglect to account?

   (3) In the event of the proceedings, civil or criminal, failing to
obtain restitution of misapplied funds, is or are any other person or
persons liable to make good the loss?

On December 24th, 1890, a letter of mine appeared in the "Times" (No. V.  above) in which I
put questions of the same import, and asked Mr. Booth if he would not be so good as to take
counsel's opinion on the "trusts" of which so [314] much has been heard and so little seen,
not as they stood in 1878, or in 1888, but as they stand now? Six weeks have elapsed, and I
wait for a reply.

It is true that Dr. Greenwood has been authorized by Mr. Booth to publish what he calls a "Rough
outline of the intended Trust Deed" ("General Booth and His Critics," p. 120), but unfortunately
we are especially told that it "does not profess to be an absolutely accurate analysis." Under
these circumstances I am afraid that neither lawyers nor laymen of moderate intelligence will
pay much attention to the assertion, that "it gives a fair idea of the general effect of the
draft," even although "the words in quotation marks are taken from it verbatim."

These words, which I give in italics, (1) define the purposes of the scheme to be "for the
social and moral regeneration and improvement of persons needy, destitute, degraded, or criminal,
in some manner indicated, implied, or suggested in the book called 'In Darkest England.'" Whence
I apprehend that, if the whole funds collected are applied to "mothering society" by the help
of speculative attorney "tribunes of the people," the purposes of the trust will be unassailably
fulfilled. (2) The name is to be "Darkest England Scheme," (3) the General of the Salvation
Army is to be "Director of the Scheme." Truly valuable information all this! But taking it
for what it is worth, the [315] public must not be misled into supposing that it has the least
bearing upon the questions to which neither I, nor anybody else, has yet been able to obtain
an intelligible answer, and that is, where are the vast funds which have been obtained, in
one way or another, during the last dozen years in the name of the Salvation Army? Where is
the presumably amended Trust Deed of 1888? I ask once more: Will Mr. Booth submit to competent
and impartial legal scrutiny the arrangements by which he and his successors are prevented
from dealing with the funds of the so-called "army chest" exactly as he or they may please?

II. With respect to the "Eagle" case, I am advised that Dr. Greenwood, whose good faith I do
not question, has been misled into misrepresenting it in the appendix to his pamphlet. And
certainly, the evidence of authoritative records which I have had the opportunity of perusing,
appears to my non-legal mind to be utterly at variance with the statement to which Dr.  Greenwood
stands committed. I may observe, further, that the excuse alleged on behalf of Mr. Booth, that
he signed the affidavit set before him by his solicitors without duly considering its contents,
is one which I should not like to have put forward were the case my own. It may be, and often
is, necessary for a person to sign an affidavit without [316] being able fully to appreciate
the technical language in which it is couched. But his solicitor will always instruct him as
to the effect of these terms. And, in this particular case where the whole matter turns on
Mr. Booth's personal intentions, it was his plainest duty to inquire, very seriously, whether
the legal phraseology employed would convey neither more nor less than such intentions to those
who would act on the affidavit, before he put his name to it.

III. With respect to Mr. Bramwell Booth's case, I refer the reader to p. 311.

IV. As to Mr. Booth-Clibborn's misrepresentations, see above, pp. 298, 299.

This much for the legal questions which have been raised by various persons since the first
edition of the pamphlet was published.

DR. GREENWOOD'S "GENERAL BOOTH AND HIS CRITICS"

So far as I am concerned, there is little or nothing in this brochure beyond a reproduction
of the vituperative stuff which has been going the round of those newspapers which favour "General"
Booth for some weeks. Those who do not want to see the real worth of it all will not read [317]
the preceding pages; and those who do will need no help from me.

I fear, however, that in justice to other people I must put one of Dr. Greenwood's paragraphs
in the pillory. He says that I have "built up, on the flimsy foundation of stories told by
three or four deserters from the Army" (p. 114), a sweeping indictment against General Booth.
This is the sort of thing to which I am well accustomed at the hands of anonymous newspaper
writers. But in view of the following easily verifiable statements, I do not think that an
educated and, I have no doubt, highly respectable gentleman like Dr. Greenwood can, in cold
blood, contemplate that assertion with satisfaction.

The persons here alluded to as "three or four deserters from the army" are:--

   (1) Mr. Redstone, for whose character Dr. Cunningham Geikie is
guarantee, and whom it has been left to Dr. Greenwood to attempt to
besmirch.

   (2) Mr. Sumner, who is a gentleman quite as worthy of respect as
Dr. Greenwood, and whose published evidence not one of the champions
of the Salvation Army has yet ventured to impugn.

   (3) Mr. Hodges, similarly libelled by that unhappy meddler Mr.
Trotter, who was compelled to the prompt confession of his error (see
p. 277).

   (4) Notwithstanding this evidence of Mr. Trotter's claims to
attention, Dr. Greenwood quotes a [318] statement of his as evidence
that a statement quoted by me from Mr. Sumner's work is a "forgery."
But Dr. Greenwood unfortunately forgets to mention that on the 27th of
December 1890 (Letter No. VII. above) Mr. Trotter was publicly
required to produce proof of his assertion; and that he has not
thought fit to produce that proof.

If I were disposed to use to Dr. Greenwood language of the sort he so freely employs to me,
I think that he could not complain of a handsome scolding.  For what is the real state of the
case? Simply this--that having come to the conclusion, from the perusal of "In Darkest England,"
that "General" Booth's colossal scheme (as apart from the local action of Salvationists) was
bad in principle and must produce certain evil consequences, and having warned the public to
that effect, I quite unexpectedly found my hands full of evidence that the exact evils predicted
had, in fact, already shown themselves on a great scale; and, carefully warning the public
to criticize this evidence, I produced a small part of it. When Dr. Greenwood talks about my
want of "regard to the opinion of the nine thousand odd who still remain among the faithful"
(p. 114), he commits an imprudence. He would obviously be surprised to learn the extent of
the support, encouragement, and information which I have received from active and sincere members
of the Salvation Army [319] --but of which I can make no use, because of the terroristic discipline
and systematic espionage which my correspondents tell me is enforced by its chief. Some of
these days, when nobody can be damaged by their use, a curious light may be thrown upon the
inner workings of the organization which we are bidden to regard as a happy family, by these
documents.

[320] (blank page) [321]

          THE SALVATION ARMY
          ARTICLES OF WAR,

To be signed by all who wish to be entered on the roll as soldiers.

Having received with all my heart the Salvation offered to me by the tender mercy of Jehovah,
I do here and now publicly acknowledge God to be my Father and King, Jesus Christ to be my
Saviour, and the Holy Spirit to be my Guide, Comforter, and Strength; and that I will, by His
help, love, serve, worship, and obey this glorious God through all time and through all eternity.

Believing solemnly that The Salvation Army has been raised up by God, and is sustained and
directed by Him, I do here declare my full determination, by God's help, to be a true soldier
of the Army till I die.

   I am thoroughly convinced of the truth of the Army's teaching.

   I believe that repentance towards God, faith in our Lord Jesus
Christ, and conversion by the Holy Spirit, are necessary to Salvation,
and that all men may be saved.

   I believe that we are saved by grace, through faith in our Lord
Jesus Christ, and he that believeth hath the witness of it in himself.
I have got it. Thank God!

   I believe that the Scriptures were given by inspiration of God, and
that they teach that not only does continuance in the favour of God
depend upon continued faith in, and obedience to, Christ, [322] but
that it is possible for those who have been truly converted to fall
away and be eternally lost.
That is to say, I believe that after conversion there remain in the
heart of the believer inclinations to evil, or roots of bitterness,
which, unless overpowered by Divine grace, produce actual sin; but
these evil tendencies can be entirely taken away by the Spirit of God,
and the whole heart thus cleansed from anything contrary to the will
of God, or entirely sanctified, will then produce the fruit of the
Spirit only. And I believe that persons thus entirely sanctified may,
by the power of God, be kept unblamable and unreprovable before Him.

   I believe in the immortality of the soul; in the resurrection of
the body; in the general judgment at the end of the world; in the
eternal happiness of the righteous; and in the everlasting punishment
of the wicked.

THEREFORE, I do here, and now, and for ever, renounce the world with all its sinful pleasures,
companionship treasures, and objects, and declare my full determination boldly to show myself
a Soldier of Jesus Christ in all places and companies, no matter what I may have to suffer,
do, or lose, by so doing.

   I do here and now declare that I will abstain from the use of all
intoxicating liquors, and also from the habitual use of opium,
laudanum, morphia, and all other baneful drugs, except when in illness
such drugs shall be ordered for me by a doctor.

   I do here and now declare that I will abstain from [323] the use of
all low or profane language; from the taking of the name of God in
vain; and from all impurity, or from taking part in any unclean
conversation or the reading of any obscene book or paper at any time,
in any company, or in any place.

   I do here declare that I will not allow myself in any falsehood,
deceit, misrepresentation, or dishonesty; neither will I practise any
fraudulent conduct, either in my business, my home, or in any other
relation in which I may stand to my fellow men, but that I will deal
truthfully, fairly, honourably, and kindly with all those who may
employ me or whom I may myself employ.

   I do here declare that I will never treat any woman, child, or
other person, whose life, comfort, or happiness may be placed within
my power, in an oppressive, cruel, or cowardly manner, but that I will
protect such from evil and danger so far as I can, and promote, to the
utmost of my ability, their present welfare and eternal salvation.

   I do here declare that I will spend all the time, strength, money,
and influence I can in supporting and carrying on this War, and that I
will endeavour to lead my family, friends, neighbours, and all others
whom I can influence, to do the same, believing that the sure and only
way to remedy all the evils in the world is by bringing men to submit
themselves to the government of the Lord Jesus Christ.

   I do here declare that I will always obey the lawful orders of my
Officers, and that I will carry out to the utmost of my power all the
Orders and Regulations of The Army; and further, that I will be an
example of faithfulness to its principles, advance to the utmost of my
ability its operations, and never allow, where I can prevent it, any
injury to its interests or hindrance to its success.

[324] And I do here and now call upon all present to witness that I enter into this undertaking
and sign these Articles of War of my own free will, feeling that the love of Christ who died
to save me requires from me this devotion of my life to His service for the Salvation of the
whole world, and therefore wish now to be enrolled as a Soldier of the Salvation Army.

CORPS 18

                                       Corps
                                       Division
                                       18

                              (SINGLE)

                       FORM OF APPLICATION
                    FOR AN APPOINTMENT AS AN
                  OFFICER IN THE SALVATION ARMY

Name 

Address 

1. What was your AGE last birthday? 
   What is the date of your birthday? 

2. What is your height? 

3. Are you free from bodily defect or disease? 

4. What serious illnesses have you had, and when? 

5. Have you ever had fits of any kind?  If so how long, and what kind? 

6. Do you consider your health good, and that you are strong enough for the work of an officer?
If not, or if you are doubtful, write a letter and explain the matter.

7. Is your doctor's certificate a full and correct statement so far as you know? 

8. Are you, or have you ever been, married? 

9. When and where CONVERTED? 

10. What other Religious Societies have you belonged to? 

11. Were you ever a Junior Soldier?  If so, how long? 

12. How long have you been enrolled as a SOLDIER?  and signed Articles of War? 

13. If you hold any office in your Corps, say what and how long held? 

14. Do you intend to live and die in the ranks of the Salvation Army? 

                   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

15. Have you ever been an open BACKSLIDER?  If so, how long? 

16. Why?  Date of your Restoration? 

17. Are you in DEBT?  If so, how much? 

18. How long owing? 

19. Did you ever use Intoxicating Drink?  If so, how long is it since you entirely gave up
its use? 

20. Did you ever use Tobacco or Snuff?  If so, how long is it since you gave up using either? 

                       ------------------------

21. What UNIFORM do you wear? 

22. How long have you worn it? 

23. Do you agree to dress in accordance with the direction of Headquarters?

24. Can you provide your own uniform and "List of Necessaries" before entering the Service? 

                    --------------------------------

25. Are you in a Situation?  If so, how long? 

26. Nature of duties, and salary 

27. Name and address of employer? 

28. If out, date of leaving last situation?  How long there? 

29. Why did you leave? 

30. Name and address of last employer? 

31. Can you start the SINGING? 

32. Can you play any musical instrument?  If so, what? 

33. Is this form filled up by you?  Can you read well at first sight? 

34. Can you write SHORTHAND?  If so, what speed and system? 

35. Can you speak any language other than English?  If so, what? 

36. Have you had any experience and success in the JUNIOR SOLDIERS' WAR? 

37. If so, what? 

38. Are you willing to sell the "WAR CRY" on Sundays? 

39. Do you engage not to publish any books, songs, or music except for the benefit of the Salvation
Army, and then only with the consent of Headquarters? 

40. Do you promise not to engage in any trade, profession, or other money- making occupation,
except for the benefit of the Salvation Army, and then only with the consent of Headquarters? 

41. Would you be willing to go ABROAD if required? 

42. Do you promise to do your utmost to help forward the Junior Soldiers' work if accepted? 

43. Do you pledge yourself to spend not less than nine hours every day in the active service
of the Army, of which not less than three hours of each week day shall be spent in VISITATION? 

44. Do you pledge yourself to fill up and send to Headquarters forms as to how your day is spent? 

                      ----------------------------

45. Have you read, and do you believe, the DOCTRINES printed on the other side? 

46. Have you read the "Orders and Regulations for Field Officers" of the Army? 

If you have not got a copy of "Orders and Regulations," get one from Candidates' Department
at once. The price to Candidates is 2s. 6d.

47. Do you pledge yourself to study and carry out and to endeavour to train others to carry
out all Orders and Regulations of the Army? 

48. Have you read the Order on page 3 of this Form as to PRESENTS and TESTIMONIALS, and do
you engage to carry it out? 

49. Do you pledge yourself never to receive any sum in the form of pay beyond the amount of
allowances granted under the scale which  follows?

   ALLOWANCES-- From the day of arrival at his station, each officer is
entitled to draw the following allowances, provided the amount remains in
hand after meeting all local expenses, namely:

-- For Single Men: Lieutenants, 16s. weekly, and Captains, 18s.

-- for Single Women: Lieutenants, 12s. weekly, and Captains, 15s. weekly.

-- Married Men, 27s. per week, and ls. per week for each child under 14 years of age; in all
cases without house-rent.

50. Do you perfectly understand that no salary or allowance is guaranteed to you, and that
you will have no claim against the Salvation Army, or against any one connected therewith,
on account of salary or allowances not received by you? 

                      -----------------------------

51. Have you ever APPLIED BEFORE?   If so, when? 

52. With what result? 

53. If you have ever been in the service of the Salvation Army in any position, say what? 

54. Why did you leave? 

55. Are you willing to come into TRAINING that we may see whether you have the necessary goodness
and ability for an Officer in the Salvation Army, and should we conclude that you have not
the necessary qualifications, do you pledge yourself to return home and work in your Corps
without creating any dissatisfaction? 

56. Will you pay your own travelling expenses if we decide to receive you in Training? 

57. How much can you pay for your maintenance while in Training? 

58. Can you deposit [Pound] 1 so that we can provide you with a suit of Uniform when you are
Commissioned?

59. What is the shortest NOTICE you require should we want you? 

60. Are your PARENTS willing that you should become an Officer? 

61. Does any one depend upon you for support?  If so, who? 

62. To what extent? 

63. Give your parents', or nearest living relatives', full address 

                 ---------------------------------

64. Are you COURTING?  If so, give name and address of the person:

65. How long have you been engaged?  What is the person's age?

66. What is the date of Birthday?  How long enrolled as a SOLDIER? 

67. What Uniform does the person wear?  How long worn? 

68. What does the person do in the Corps? 

69. Has the person applied for the work? 

70. If not, when does the person intend doing so? 

71. Do the parents agree to the person coming into Training? 

                 ---------------------------------

72. Do you understand that you may not be allowed to marry until three years after your appointment
as an Officer, and do you engage to abide by this? 

73. If you are not courting, do you pledge yourself to abstain from anything of the kind during
Training and for at least twelve months after your appointment as a Commissioned Field Officer? 

74. Do you pledge yourself not to carry on courtship with any one at the station to which you
are at the time appointed? 

75. Do you pledge yourself never to commence, or allow to commence, or break off anything of
the sort, without first informing your Divisional Officer, or Headquarters, of your intention
to do so? 

76. Do you pledge yourself never to marry any one marriage with whom would take you out of
the Army altogether? 

77. Have you read, and do you agree to carry out, the following Regulations as to Courtship
and Marriage? 

(a) "Officers must inform their Divisional Officer or Headquarters of their desire to enter
into or break off any engagement, and no Officer is permitted to enter into or break off an
engagement without the consent of his or her D.O.

(b) "Officers will not be allowed to carry on any courtship in the Town in which they are appointed;
nor until twelve months after the date of their Commission.

(c) "Headquarters cannot consent to the engagement of Male Lieutenants, until their Divisional
Officer is prepared to recommend them for command of a Station as Captain.

(d) "Before Headquarters can consent to the marriage of any Officer, the Divisional Officer
must be prepared to give him three stations as a married man.

(e) "No Officer accepted will be allowed to marry until he or she has been at least three years
in the field, except in cases of long-standing engagements before application for the work.

(f) "No Male Officer will, under any circumstances, be allowed to marry before he is twenty-two
years of age, unless required by Headquarters for special service.

(g) "Headquarters will not agree to the Marriage of any Male Officer (except under extraordinary
circumstances) until twelve months after consenting to his engagement.

(h) "Consent will not be given to the engagement of any male Officer unless the young woman
is likely to make a suitable wife for an Officer, and (if not already an Officer) is prepared
to come into Training at once.

(i) "Consent will be given to engagements between Female Officers and Soldiers, on condition
that the latter are suitable for Officers, and are willing to come into Training if called upon.

(j) "Consent will never be given to any engagement or marriage which would take an Officer
out of the Army.

(k) "Every Officer must sign before marriage the Articles of Marriage, contained in the Orders
and Regulations for Field Officers."

                          ----------------------------

              PRESENTS AND TESTIMONIALS.

1. Officers are expected to refuse utterly, and to prevent, if possible, even the proposal
of any present or testimonial to them.

2. Of course, an Officer who is receiving no salary, or only part salary, may accept food or
other gifts, such as are needed to meet his wants; but it is dishonourable for any one who
is receiving their salary to accept gifts of food also.

         THE DOCTRINES OF THE SALVATION ARMY.

The principal Doctrines taught in the Army are as follows: --

1. We believe that the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament were given by inspiration of
God, and that they only constitute the Divine rule of Christian faith and practice.

2. We believe there is only one God, who is infinitely perfect, the Creator, Preserver, and
Governor of all things.

3. We believe that there are three persons in the Godhead--the Father, the Son, and the Holy
Ghost, undivided in essence, coequal in power and glory, and the only proper object of religious
worship.

4. We believe that, in the person of Jesus Christ, the Divine and human natures are united,
so that He is truly and properly God, and truly and properly man.

5. We believe that our first parents were created in a state of innocency, but by their disobedience
they lost their purity and happiness; and that, in consequence of their fall, all men have
become sinners, totally depraved, and as such are justly exposed to the wrath of God.

6. We believe that the Lord Jesus Christ has, by His suffering and death, made an atonement
for the whole world, so that whosoever will may be saved.

7. We believe that repentance towards God, faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, and regeneration
by the Holy Spirit, are necessary to Salvation.

8.

9.

10.

11.

                   -----------------------------

                    DECLARATION.

I HEREBY DECLARE that I will never, on any consideration, do anything calculated to injure
The Salvation Army, and especially, that I will never, without first having obtained the consent
of The General, take any part in any religious services or in carrying on services held in
opposition to the Army.

I PLEDGE MYSELF to make true records, daily, on the forms supplied to me, of what I do, and
to confess, as far as I am concerned, and to report, as far as I may see in others, any neglect
or variation from the orders or directions of The General.

I FULLY UNDERSTAND that he does not undertake to employ or to retain in the service of The
Army any one who does not appear to him to be fitted for the work, or faithful and successful
in it, and I solemnly pledge myself quietly to leave any Army Station to which I may be sent,
without making any attempt to disturb or annoy The Army in any way, should The General desire
me to do so. And I hereby discharge The Army and The General from all liability, and pledge
myself to make no claim on account of any situation, property, or interest I may give up in
order to secure an engagement in The Army.

I understand that The General will not be responsible in any way for any loss I may suffer
in consequence of being dismissed from Training; as I am aware that the Cadets are received
into Training for the very purpose of testing their suitability for the work of Salvation Army
Officers.

I hereby declare that the foregoing answers appear to me to fully express the truth as to the
questions put to me, and that I know of no other facts which would prevent my engagement by
The General, if they were known to him.

Candidate to sign here.........................................

                    --------------------------

               NOTICE TO CANDIDATES.

1. All Candidates are expected to fill up and sign this form themselves, if they can write at all.

2. You are expected to have obtained and read "Orders and Regulations for Field Officers" before
you make this application.

3. Making this application does NOT imply that we can receive you as an officer, and you are,
therefore, NOT to leave your home, or give notice to leave your situation, until you hear again
from us.

4. If you are appointed as an Officer, or received into Training and it is afterwards discovered
that any of the questions in this form have not been truthfully answered, you will be instantly
dismissed.

5. If you do not understand any question in this form, or if you do not agree to any of the
requirements stated upon it, return it to Headquarters, and say so in a straightforward manner.

6. Make the question for this appointment a matter of earnest prayer, as it is the most important
step you have taken since your conversion.

We must have your Photo. Please enclose it with your forms, and address them to "Candidate
Department," 101, Queen Victoria Street, London, E.C.

