Currants should not be over ripe. Equal parts of red and white currants or currants and raspberries
make a delicately colored and flavored jelly. Pick over and remove the leaves and poor fruit,
and if filthy wash and drain them but do not stem them. Mash them in a porcelain kettle, with
wooden pestle without heating as that makes the jelly dark. Let them drain in a flannel bag
over night. Do not squeeze them, or the jelly will be cloudy. In the morning measure a bowl
of sugar for each bowl of juice, and heat the sugar carefully in an earthern dish in the oven.
Stir it often to prevent burning: boil the juice twenty minutes and skim thoroughly. Add the
hot sugar and boil from three to five minutes or till it thickens on a spoon when exposed to
the air. Turn at once into glasses and let them remain in the sun several days then cover with
paper dipped in brandy and paste paper over the tops of the glasses. One who is authority on
this subject recommends covering with melted paraffine, or putting a lump of paraffine in the
jelly while still hot. After draining the juice, the currants may be squeezed and a second
quality of jelly made, it may not be clear but will answer for some purposes.

CANDIED PEEL.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Put the lemon or orange skins, in strong salt and water, when they are soft enough to pass
a straw through, take them out and soak them changing the water till all the salt taste is
gone, then simmer them in thin brown sugar syrup till clear; take them out, place on a dish,
and let them remain for a day or two. Boil the syrup till thick, then fill the skins with it
and put away to dry.

LEMON HONEY. (Filling.)

MRS. FRANK GLASS.

One pound of butter, four pounds of sugar, two dozen eggs leaving out eight whites, rind and
juice of one dozen lemons. Put all together, and let simmer until it thickens like honey. Put
into jars, can be kept for years.

PUMPKIN JAM.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Peel and seed, then, cut into pieces two or three inches square, lay on a dish to dry till
next day, then put into the preserving pan and barely cover with molasses. To a medium sized
pumpkin put one ounce cloves and about a dessertspoon of ginger or as much as will taste; let
it boil until the pumpkin is quite soft. One half dozen apples (sour) just cored not peeled
is a great improvement. The molasses must only come to the top of your pieces, not nearly cover
them.

FRUIT JELLY.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

Dissolve two ounces of tartaric acid in one quart of cold water, pour it on to five pounds
of strawberries, currants, or raspberries. Let it stand twenty-four hours. Then strain it without
pressing or bruising the fruit. To every pint of clear juice add one and one half pounds of
white sugar. Stir frequently till the sugar is dissolved. Then bottle and cork air tight. Keep
in a cool, dark place. When required for use dissolve one ounce gelatine in one half pint boiling
water, add one and one half pints syrup. Pour in a mould and set away to stiffen. Serve with
whipped cream.

GRAPE JELLY.

MRS. GEORGE ELLIOTT.

Mash the grapes in a preserving pan, put them over the fire and cook until thoroughly done.
Strain through a jelly bag and to each pint of juice allow one pound of sugar. Boil the juice
rapidly for ten minutes, add the sugar made hot in the pan in the oven, and boil rapidly three
minutes more. Excellent.

MARMALADE.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Cut the oranges in half and work in a spoon to remove the inside. Slice the peel very fine.
Take the skin and seeds from the pulp and mix peel and pulp together and weigh them. For every
pound of fruit, pour three pints of cold water over it and let stand twenty four hours. Boil
till chips are tender (about an hour and a half). This absorbs a great deal of the fluid. Let
it stand another twenty-four hours. To every pound of boiled fruit, put one and one quarter
pounds of sugar. Boil till syrup jellies, and chips are transparent. Boil pippins and skins
in a gallon of water, and strain.

BITTER ORANGE MARMALADE.

MRS. R. STEWART.

One dozen bitter oranges, three sweet oranges, three lemons. Slice or shave the bitter oranges
and lemons very thin laying aside the pips in a bowl; pare or slice the sweet oranges. To every
pint of fruit add four pints cold water, cover the pips with water, let stand for twenty-four
hours, boil till quite tender putting the pips in a muslin bag when ready: to every pound of
fruit add one and one half pounds white sugar and boil till it jellies, from twenty to thirty
minutes.

CURRANT MARMALADE.

MRS. W. W. HENRY.

Seven pounds of currants, six pounds of sugar, two pounds of raisins, two oranges. Cook one
and one half hours. Strain out the juice of currants, seed the raisins, and chop fine. Use
all of the orange but the seeds, chop fine.

RHUBARB MARMALADE.

MRS. THEOPHILUS OLIVER. Pour off the syrup and boil it for twenty minutes, add the fruit and
boil for twenty minutes more, when the marmalade should be ready to put in pots.

PRESERVED RAW PINEAPPLE.

MRS. W. COOK.

Pare the pineapples and take out all the eyes. With a sharp knife, cut the pineapple in thin
slices cutting down sides until the heart is reached, this is to be discarded. Weigh the sliced
pineapple and put in a large earthen dish. Add to it as many pounds of granulated sugar as
there are pounds of fruit and stir well. Pack this mixture in quart or pint jars: cover tightly
and put away. The pineapple will keep a year or more and be perfectly tender and fine flavored.
It is best to choose fruit not over ripe.

PRESERVED TOMATOES. (Original).

MRS. E. A. PFEIFFER.

Take two gallons large smooth green tomatoes, make a pickle of three pints of vinegar, and
one quart of water, two tablespoons salt, one tablespoon each, spice, cloves and cinnamon,
one pound of sugar: scald spices ten minutes in vinegar and water, then add tomatoes and scald
till tender, slice for table, pour sauce over. N. B. Strain spices, over the tomatoes, and
seal while warm; some prefer without salt.

TO PRESERVE TOMATOES FOR WINTER USE.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

To fifteen pounds tomatoes, put three ounces of white sugar, and three ounces of salt, boil
very hard for twenty minutes. Fill up pint jars to overflowing and screw down tight; as they
cool off, screw them again so as to be sure they are quite tight. This quantity fills ten pint
jars. Skin the tomatoes before boiling, this is quickly done by pouring boiling water over them.

BEVERAGES.

BOSTON CREAM. (A summer drink).

MRS. W. FRASER.

CLARET CUP.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

Six bottles of claret, one of sherry, three wine glasses of brandy, five bottles of soda water,
sugar to taste.

GINGER BEER.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

One quarter pound white ginger, two ounces cream tartar, two pounds white sugar, juice of two
lemons, three gallons of hot water; boil one hour, cork while hot.

GINGERETTE.

MRS. ALBERT CLINT.

Four and one half pounds of loaf sugar, one and one half ounce tartaric acid, four ounces tincture
of ginger, one ounce essence of capsicum, two drops of cassia. Put the above ingredients into
a crock that will hold two gallons of boiling water; one pound of brown sugar to be burnt in
a pan till it is the color of coffee, then add to it the other ingredients. The boiling water
is the last thing to be poured on the ingredients. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. When
cold, bottle, cork tight and put away for use. The burnt sugar gives it a pretty colour.

GINGER CORDIAL.

MRS. ERSKINE SCOTT.

Ten lemons, one gallon of whisky, six ounces of root ginger, (to be bruised) and put with the
whiskey on the lemons, after cutting them up in slices, and left for three weeks. Then take
five pounds of white sugar, and pour over it three pints of boiling water, and put on the fire
until it is melted. When it is cold, pour over the lemons, having first strained them, bottle
and cork tight.

GRAPE JUICE.

MRS. GEORGE LAWRENCE.

To ten pounds grapes (Concord), two pounds white sugar, wash grapes, cover them with water
in preserving kettle, and boil for thirty minutes, strain through coarse cheese cloth, let
cool, add sugar, boil twenty minutes longer, and bottle while boiling hot, and cork and seal
with sealing wax.

GRAPE WINE.

MRS. E. A. PFEIFFER.

Take fresh blue grapes, stems must be green, mash well, put in preserving pan, and warm, not
boiling heat, strain, first through cheese cloth, then through flannel, return to pan, sugar
to taste, bring to boiling heat, bottle while hot, cork well and seal. Have kept it over a
year without any fermentation. Original.

GRAPE JUICE.

MRS. J. MACNAUGHTON.

Pick over and wash your grapes. Concords are said to be preferable. Put them in your porcelain
kettle with just enough water to prevent sticking. When the skins crack remove from fire, pour
into a flannel bag, not more than a quart at once, and press out the juice. Add nearly half
as much sugar as juice and return to the kettle. When the sugar is all dissolved and the juice
boiling, pour into cans and seal. Pint cans are preferable; when opened this can be diluted
with water to suit the taste, and will keep perfectly sweet for several days if kept in a cool
place.

RASPBERRY ACID.

MRS. GEORGE M. CRAIG.

Dissolve five ounces of tartaric acid in two quarts of water, pour it on twelve pounds of red
raspberries in a large bowl, let it stand twenty-four hours, strain it without pressing: to
a pint of this liquor, add one and a half pounds of white sugar, stir until dissolved, bottle
but do not cork for several days, when it is ready for use two or three tablespoons in a glass
of ice water will make a delicious drink.

RASPBERRY VINEGAR.

MRS. STUART OLIVER.

Cover with vinegar and let them stand about a week, stirring every day, then strain the fruit
and to each pint add a pound of sugar. Boil till it seems as a syrup about one half an hour,
bottle, cork when cold.

LEMON SYRUP.

MRS. THOM.

One pound powdered frosting sugar, one quarter pound tartaric acid, one quarter pound carbonate
of soda, forty drops essence of lemon. Add the latter to the sugar, mix well. Having dried
it well pass it through a sieve, and keep in a closely corked bottle. A teaspoonful will suffice
for a tumbler of water.

LEMON SYRUP.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Two ounces citric acid, one ounce tartaric acid, one half ounce epsom salts, five pounds white
sugar. Grate the rind of three lemons, juice of six lemons, three pints boiling water, when
cold add the whites of two eggs well beaten, strain through muslin, and then bottle.

LEMON SYRUP.

MRS. ARCHIBALD LAURIE.

One quart juice of fresh lemons, the yellow skin only of six lemons, one quart boiling water,
four pounds white sugar. Let it stand for twenty-four hours. If not quite dissolved melt over
a gentle heat. Filter through a jelly bag and bottle tightly corked, will keep for three months
in a cool place.

COOKING FOR THE SICK.

NOURISHING CREAM FOR CONVALESCENTS.

MRS. BLAIR.

Beat the yolks of four eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the rind (grated lightly),
and juice of an orange, or lemon. Add a teaspoonful of powdered sugar to the whites of the
eggs and beat until stiff. Place the vessel containing the beaten yolks in a pot of boiling
water, cook gently, stirring all the time. When it begins to thicken stir in the whites of
the eggs until thoroughly mixed, then put it to cool. Serve in small glasses.

BEEF TEA FOR INVALIDS.

MRS. W. COOK.

One pound lean beef and one pound veal, cut up small, and put in a wide mouthed jar. Pour two
wineglasses of cold water or wine on it, one teaspoon salt, and a little mace if liked. Cork
the jar well and tie a bladder over it. Place the jar in a deep saucepan of cold water which
must not be allowed to cover the cork. Let it boil slowly four hours or more and strain through
a sieve. One tablespoonful of this is equal to a cup of ordinary beef tea.

CALF'S FOOT JELLY.

Make your stock of calves feet and two ox feet. Add to it if very firm a pint of water, juice
of four lemons and rind of two, five eggs, shells and all, whites beaten well, one ounce cinnamon,
one ounce cloves, sugar to taste, about one and one half pounds and one bottle of sherry. Put
all into the pan and stir well. Let it boil a minute or two and then throw in a cup of cold
water, cover closely for ten minutes, skim and run through the bag.

GRUEL.

MRS. SMYTH.

One large cup oatmeal, cover with cold water, stir well and let stand a few minutes. Strain,
adding a little more boiling water or half milk, to the water strained. Stir it until it comes
to the boil. Cook five minutes or longer. When ready for serving, add a little salt, sugar
and nutmeg.

BAKED LEMON FOR A COLD.

MRS. SEPTIMUS BARROW.

Dose a teaspoonful. Bake a lemon till soft, take out all the inside, and mix with as much sugar
as it will hold, strain and stand till cold when it will jelly.

BREAD, BUNS, FRITTERS.

BOSTON BROWN BREAD.

MRS. RICHARD TURNER.

One cup Graham flour, one cup corn meal, one cup wheat flour, one large cup raisins, one teaspoon
baking soda, one half cup warm water, one pinch of salt. Steam four hours: nice sliced and
steamed for breakfast.

BROWN BREAD.

MRS. R. STEWART.

One cup Graham flour, one cup wheat, one cup yellow corn meal, one cup sweet milk, one half
cup molasses. Pinch of salt and a teaspoon baking soda dissolved in milk. Mix the flour, stir
in the molasses, then the milk and soda. Steam three hours.

HOME MADE BREAD.

MRS. FRANK GLASS.

Soak a cake of yeast in one quart of water, then add six pints of flour and two teaspoons of
salt. Let it stand over night in a rather warm place. In the morning make it up with another
pint of water and three pints of flour. Let stand for an hour or so, then knead it well and
make into loaves, letting them stand another hour, or until well risen. (Buns made from part
of the sponge.) Take a part of the sponge and add two teaspoonfuls of butter and one egg.

TEA BISCUIT.

MRS. HYDE.

One pint of flour (sifted three times,) one teaspoon cream of tartar, one half teaspoon of
soda, two teaspoons of sugar, pinch of salt, one dessert spoon of lard or butter, moisten with
milk, and yolk of beaten egg.

TAFFY BUNS.

MISS M. W. HOME.

Make a good biscuit crust, roll out rather thin spread with the following mixture.

FRENCH ROLLS OR TWISTS.

MISS LAMPSON.

One quart of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, one small cup brewer's yeast, flour enough to make
a stiff batter. Let it rise, and when very light, work in one egg and two spoonfuls of butter,
and knead in flour till stiff enough to roll. Let it rise again, and when very light, roll
out, cut in round or braids or any shape preferred. N. B. The egg and butter may be omitted.

BUTTER-MILK SCONES.

MRS. FRANK LAURIE.

One quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar and one of baking soda, a little piece
of butter the size of an egg and one teaspoonful of salt; mix the butter well in the flour
with the hands, put the salt, baking powder into the flour when sifting, add enough butter-milk
to thicken. Bake in a moderate oven.

GRAHAM MUFFINS.

MADAME J. T.

One cup Graham flour, one half cup ordinary flour, three quarters cup milk two tablespoons
sugar, one large teaspoon baking powder, one large tablespoon butter, one beaten up egg and salt.

MUFFINS.

MRS. GILMOUR.

