The mean of the only four series of such socket or casing stone measures as have been recorded
hitherto by the French Academicians (9163), Vyse (9168), Mahmoud Bey (9162), and Inglis (9110),
amounts to nearly 9150. The first three of these observers were only able to measure the north
side of the pyramid. Mr. Inglis measured all the four sides, and found them respectively 9120,
9114, 9102, and 9102, making a difference of 18 inches between the shortest and longest. Professor
Smyth thinks the measures of Mr. Inglis as on the whole probably too small, and he takes two
of them, 9114 and 9102--(but, strangely, not the largest, 9120)--as data, and strikes a new
number out of these two, and out of the three previous measures of the French Academicians,
Vyse, and Mahmoud Bey; from these five quantities making a calculation of "means," and electing
9142 as the proper measure of the basis line of the pyramid--(which exact measure certainly
none of its many measurers ever yet found it to be); and upon this foundation, "derived" (to
use his own words) "from the best modern measures yet made," he proceeds to reason, "as the
happy, useful, and perfect representation of 9142," and the great standard for linear measure
revealed to man in the Great Pyramid. Surely it is a remarkably strange standard of linear
measure that can only be thus elicited and developed--not by direct measurement but by indirect
logic; and regarding the exact and precise length of which there is as yet no kind of reliable
and accurate certainty.

Lately, Sir Henry James, the distinguished head of the Ordnance Survey Department, has shown
that the length of one of the sides of the pyramid base, with the casing stones added, as measured
by Colonel H. Vyse--viz. 9168 inches--is precisely 360 derahs, or land cubits of Egypt; the
derah being an ancient land measure still in use, of the length of nearly 25-1/2 British inches,
or, more correctly, of 25·488 inches; and he has pointed out that in the construction of the
body of the Great Pyramid, the architect built 10 feet or 10 cubits of horizontal length for
every 9 feet or 9 cubits of vertical height; while in the construction of the inclined passages
the proportion was adhered to of 9 on the incline to 4 in vertical height, rules which would
altogether simplify the building of such a structure.[254] The Egyptian derah of 25·48 inches
is practically one-fourth more in length than the old cubit of the city of Memphis. Long ago
Sir Isaac Newton showed, from Professor Greaves' measurements of the chambers, galleries, etc.,
that the Memphis cubit (or cubit of "ancient Egypt generally") of 1·719 English feet,[255]
or 20·628 English inches, was apparently the working cubit of the masons in constructing the
Great Pyramid[256]--an opinion so far admitted more lately by both Messrs Taylor and Smyth;
"the length" (says Professor Smyth) "of the cubit employed by the masons engaged in the Great
Pyramid building, or that of the ancient city of Memphis," being, he thinks, on an average
taken from various parts in the interior of the building, 20·73 British inches.[257] According
to Mr. Inglis' late measurement of the four bases of the pyramid, after its four corner sockets
were exposed, the length of each base line was possibly 442 Memphis cubits, or 9117 English
inches; or, if the greater length of the French Academicians, Colonel Vyse, and Mahmoud Bey,
be held nearer the truth, 444 Memphis cubits, or 9158 British inches.

But Professor Smyth tries to show that (1.) if 9142 only be granted to him as the possible
base line of the pyramid; and (2.) if 25 pyramidal inches be allowed to be the length of the
"Sacred Cubit," as revealed to the Israelites (and as revealed in the pyramid), then the base
line might be found very near a multiple of this cubit by the days of the year,[258] or by
365·25; for these two numbers multiplied together amount to 9131 "pyramidal" inches, or 9140
British inches--the British inch being held, as already stated, to be 1000th less than the
pyramidal inch. Was, however, the "Sacred Cubit"--upon whose alleged length of 25 "pyramidal"
inches this idea is entirely built--really a measure of this length? In this matter--the most
important and vital of all for his whole linear hypothesis--Professor Smyth seems to have fallen
into errors which entirely upset all the calculations and inferences founded by him upon it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Length of the Sacred Cubit.--Sir Isaac Newton, in his remarkable Dissertation upon the Sacred
Cubit of the Jews (republished in full by Professor Smyth in the second volume of his Life
and Work at the Great Pyramid), long ago came to the conclusion that it measured 25 unciæ of
the Roman foot, and 6/10 of an uncia, or 24·753 British inches; and in this way it was one-fifth
longer than the cubit of Memphis--viz. 20·628 inches, as previously deduced by him from Greaves'
measurements of the King's Chamber and other parts of the interior of the Great Pyramid. Before
drawing his final inference as to the Sacred Cubit being 24·75 inches, and as so many steps
conducting to that inference, Sir Isaac shows that the Sacred Cubit was some measurement intermediate
between a long and moderate human step or pace, between the third of the length of the body
of a tall and short man, etc. etc. Professor Smyth has collected several of the estimations
thus adduced by Newton as "methods of approach" to circumscribe the length of the Sacred Cubit,
and omitted others. Adding to eight of these alleged data, what he mistakingly avers to be
Sir Isaac's deduction of the actual length of the Sacred Cubit in British inches--(namely,
24·82 instead of 24·753)--as a ninth quantity, he enters the whole nine in a table as follows:--

Professor Smyth's Table of Newton's data of Inquiry regarding the Sacred Cubit.[259]

   "First between 23·28 and 27·94 British inches.
   Second   "     23·3      27·9        "
   Third    "     24·80     25·02       "
   Fourth   "     24·91     25·68[260]  "
   And Fifth, somewhere near 24·82."

"The mean of all which numbers" (Professor Smyth remarks) "amounts to 25·07 British inches.
The Sacred Cubit, then, of the Hebrews" (he adds) "in the time of Moses--according to Sir Isaac
Newton--was equal to 25·07 British inches, with a probable error of ±·1."

But--"according to Sir Isaac Newton"--the Sacred Cubit of the Jews was not 25·07, as Professor
Smyth makes him state in this table, but 24·75 British inches, as Sir Isaac himself more than
once deliberately infers in his Dissertation.[261] Besides, in such inquiries, is it not altogether
illogical to attempt to draw mathematical deductions by these calculations of "means," and
especially by using the ninth quantity in the table--viz. Sir Isaac's own avowed and deliberate
deduction regarding the actual length of the Sacred Cubit--as one of the nine quantities from
which that length was to be again deduced by the very equivocal process of "means?" Errors,
however, of a far more serious kind exist. The "mean" of the nine quantities in Professor Smyth's
table is, he infers, 25·07 inches; and hence he avows that this, or near this figure, is the
length of the Sacred Cubit. But the real mean of the nine quantities which Professor Smyth
has collected is not 25·07 but 25·29--a number in such a testing question as this of a very
different value. For the days of the year (365·25) when multiplied by this, the true mean of
these nine quantities, would make the base line of the pyramid 9237 inches instead of Professor
Smyth's theoretical number of 9142 inches; a difference altogether overturning all his inferences
and calculations thereanent. And again, if we take Sir Isaac Newton's own conclusion of 24·75,
and multiply it by the days of the year, the pretended length of the pyramid base comes out
as low as 9039.

Alleged "really glorious Consummation" in Geodesy.

The incidentally but totally erroneous summation which Professor Smyth thus makes of the nine
equivocal quantities in his table, as amounting to 25·07, he declares (to use his own strong
words) as a "really glorious consummation for the geodesical science of the present day to
have brought to light;" for he avers this length of 25·07--(which he forthwith elects to alter
and change, without any given reason whatever, to 25·025 British inches)--being, he observes,
"practically the sacred Hebrew cubit, is exactly one ten-millionth (1-10,000,000th) of the
earth's semi-axis of rotation; and that is the very best mode of reference to the earth-ball
as a whole, for a linear standard through all time, that the highest science of the existing
age of the world has yet struck out or can imagine. In a word, the Sacred Cubit, thus realised,
forms an instance of the most advanced and perfected human science supporting the truest, purest,
and most ancient religion; while a linear standard which the chosen people in the earlier ages
of the world were merely told by maxim to look on as sacred, compared with other cubits of
other lengths, is proved by the progress of human learning in the latter ages of time, to have
had, and still to have, a philosophical merit about it which no men or nations at the time
it was first produced, or within several thousand years thereof, could have possibly thought
of for themselves." Besides, adds he elsewhere, "an extraordinarily[262] convenient length
too, for man to handle and use in the common affairs of life is the one ten-millionth of the
earth's semi-axis of rotation when it comes to be realised, for it is extremely close to the
ordinary human arm, or to the ordinary human pace in walking, with a purpose to measure."

Of course all these inferences and averments regarding the Sacred Cubit being an exact segment
of the polar axis disappear, when we find Sir Isaac Newton's length of the Sacred Cubit is
not, as Professor Smyth elects it to be, 25·025 British inches; nor 25·07, as he incorrectly
calculated it to be from the mean of the nine quantities selected and arranged in his table;
nor 25·29, as is the actual mean of these nine quantities in his table; but, "according to
Sir Isaac Newton's" own reiterated statement and conclusion, 24·753. (See footnote, p. 245.)
A Sacred Cubit, according to Sir Isaac Newton's admeasurements of it, of 24·75 inches, would
not, by thousands of cubits, be one ten-millionth of the measure of the semi-polar axis of
the earth; provided the polar axis be, as Professor Smyth elects it to be, 500,500,000 British
inches.[263]

AXIS OF THE EARTH AS A STANDARD OF MEASURE.

The standards of measure in France and some other countries are, as is well known, referred
to divisions of arcs of the meridian, measured off upon different points of the surface of
the earth. These measures of arcs of the meridian, as measurements of a known and selected
portion of the surface of the spheroidal globe of the earth, have, more or less, fixed mathematical
relations with the axis of the earth; as the circumference of a sphere has an exact mathematical
ratio to its diameter. The difference in length of arcs of the meridian at different parts
of the earth's surface, in consequence of the spheroidal form of the globe of the earth, has
led to the idea that the polar diameter or axis of the earth would form a more perfect and
more universal standard than measurements of the surface of the earth. In the last century,
Cassini[264] and Callet[265] proposed, on these grounds, that the polar axis of the earth should
be taken as the standard of measure. Without having noticed these propositions of Cassini and
Callet,[266] Professor Smyth adopts the same idea, and avers that 4000 years ago it had been
adopted and used also by the builders of the Great Pyramid, who laid out and measured off the
basis of the pyramid as a multiple by the days of the year of the Sacred Cubit, and hence of
the Pyramidal Cubit while the Sacred or Pyramidal Cubit were both the results of superhuman
or divine knowledge, and were both, or each, one ten-millionth of the semi-polar axis of the
earth. We have already seen, however, that the Sacred Cubit, "according to Sir Isaac Newton,"
is not a multiple by the days of the year of the base line of the Great Pyramid; and is not
one twenty-millionth of the polar axis of the earth, when that polar axis is laid down as measuring,
according to the numbers elected by Professor Smyth, 500,500,000 British inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

But is there any valid reason whatever for fixing and determining, as an ascertained mathematical
fact, the polar axis of the earth to be this very precise and exact measure, with its formidable
tail of cyphers? None, except the supposed requirements or necessities of Professor Smyth's
pyramid metrological theory. The latest and most exact measurements are acknowledged to be
those of Captain Clarke, who, on the doctrine of the earth being a spheroid of revolution computes
the polar axis to be 500,522,904 British inches, calculating it from the results of all the
known arcs of meridian measures. If we grant that the Sacred Cubit could be allowed to be exactly
25·025 inches, which Sir Isaac Newton found it not to be; and if we grant that the polar axis
is exactly 500,500,000 British inches, which Captain Clarke did not find it to be; then, certainly,
as shown by Professor Smyth, there would be 20,000,000 of these supposititious pyramidal cubits,
or 500,000,000 of the supposititious pyramidal inches in this supposititious polar axis of
the earth. "In so far, then" (writes Professor Smyth), "we have in the 5, with the many 0's
that follow, a pyramidally commensurable and symbolically appropriate unit for the earth's
axis of rotation." But such adjustments have been made with as great apparent exactitude when
entirely different earth-axes and quantities were taken. Thus Mr. John Taylor shows the inches,
cubits, and axes to answer precisely, although he took as his standard a totally different
diameter of the earth from Professor Smyth. The diameter of the earth at 30° of latitude--the
geographical position of the Great Pyramid--is, he avers, some seventeen miles, or more exactly
17·652 miles longer than at the poles.[267] But Mr. Taylor fixed upon this diameter of the
earth at latitude 30°--and not, like Professor Smyth, upon its polar diameter--as the standard
for the metrological linear measures of the Great Pyramid; and yet, though the standard was
so different, he found, like Mr. Smyth, 500,000,000 of inches also in his axis, and 20,000,000
of cubits also.[268] The resulting figures appear to fit equally as well for the one as for
the other. Perhaps they answer best on Mr. Taylor's scheme. For Mr. Taylor maintained that
the diameter of the earth before the Flood, at this selected point of 30°, was less by nearly
37 miles than what it was subsequently to the flood,[269] and is now; a point by which he accounts
for otherwise unaccountable circumstances in the metrological doctrines which have been attempted
to be connected with the Great Pyramid. For while Mr. Taylor believes the Sacred Cubit to be
24·88, or possibly 24·90 British inches, he holds the new Pyramidal cubit to be 25 inches in
full; and the Sacred and Pyramidal cubits to be different therefore from each other, though
both inspired. In explanation of this startling difference in two measures supposed to be equally
of sacred[270] origin, Mr. Taylor observes--"The smaller 24·88 is the Sacred Cubit which measured
the diameter of the Earth before the Flood; the one by which Noah measured the Ark, as tradition
says; and the one in accordance with which all the interior works of the Great Pyramid were
constructed.[271] The larger (25) is the Sacred Cubit of the present Earth, according to the
standard of the Great Pyramid when it was completed."

Surely such marked diversities and contradictions, and such strange hypothetical adjustments
and re-adjustments of the data and calculations, entirely upset the groundless and extraordinary
theory of the base of the pyramid being a standard of linear measurement; or a segment of any
particular axis of the earth; or a standard for emitting a system of new inches and new cubits;--seeing,
on the one hand, more particularly, that the basis line of the pyramid is still itself an unknown
and undetermined linear quantity, as is also the polar axis of the earth of which it is declared
and averred to be an ascertained, determined, and measured segment.

M. Paucton, in 1780, wrote a work in which he laid down the base side of the pyramid as 8754
inches; maintained, like Mr. Taylor and Mr. Smyth, that this length was a standard of linear
measures; found it to be the measure of a portion of a degree of the meridian, such degree
being itself the 360th part of a circle;--and apparently the calculations and figures answered
as well as when the measurement was declared to be 9142 inches, and the line not a segment
of an arc of the circumference of the earth, but a segment of the polar axis of the earth;
for De l'Isle lauds Paucton's meridian degree theory as one of the wondrous efforts of human
genius, or (to use his own words) "as one of the chief works of the human mind!" Yet the errors
into which Paucton was seduced in miscalculating the base line of the Pyramid as 8754 inches,
and the other ways he was misled, are enough--suggests Professor Smyth--"to make poor Paucton
turn in his grave."

SIGNIFICANCE OF CYPHERS AND FIVES.

M. Paucton, Mr. Taylor, and those who have adopted and followed their pyramid metrological
ideas, seem to imagine that if, by multiplying one of their measures or objects, they can run
the calculation out into a long tail of terminal 0's, then something very exact and marvellous
is proved. "When" (upholds Mr. Taylor), "we find in so complicated a series of figures as that
which the measures of the Great Pyramid and of the Earth require for their expression, round
numbers present themselves, or such as leave no remainder, we may be sure we have arrived at
primitive measures." But many small and unimportant objects, when thus multiplied sufficiently,
give equally startling strings of 0's. Thus, if the polar axis of the earth be held as 500,000,000
inches, and Sir Isaac Newton's "Sacred Cubit" be held, as Professor Smyth calculated it to
be, viz. 24·82 British inches--then the long diameter of the brim of the lecturer's hat, measuring
12·4 inches, is 1-40,000,000th of the earth's polar axis; a page of the print of the Society's
Transactions is 1-60,000,000th of the same; a print page of Professor Smyth's book, 6·2 inches
in length, is 1-80,000,000th of this "great standard;" etc. etc. etc.

Professor Smyth seems further to think that the figure or number "five" plays also a most important
symbolical and inner part in the configuration, structure, and enumeration of the Great Pyramid.
"The pyramid" (says he) "embodies in a variety of ways the importance of five." It is itself
"five-angled, and with its plane a five-sided solid, in which everything went by fives, or
numbers of fives and powers of five." "With five, then, as a number, times of five, and powers
of five, the Great Pyramid contains a mighty system of consistently subdividing large quantities
to suit human happiness." To express this, Mr. Smyth suggests the new noun "fiveness." But
it applies to many other matters as strongly, or more strongly than to the Great Pyramid. For
instance, the range of rooms belonging to the Royal Society is "five" in number; the hall in
which it meets has five windows; the roof of that hall is divided into five transverse ornamental
sections; and each of these five transverse sections is subdivided into five longitudinal ones;
the books at each end of the hall are arranged in ten rows and six sections--making sixty,
a multiple of five; the official chairs in the hall are ten in number, or twice five; the number
of benches on one side for ordinary fellows is generally five; the office-bearers of the Society
are twenty-five in number, or five times five; and so on. These arrangements were doubtless,
in the first instance, made by the Royal Society without any special relation to "fiveness,"
or the "symbolisation" of five; and there is not the slightest ground for any belief that the
apparent "fiveness" of anything in the Great Pyramid had a different origin.

GREAT MINUTENESS OF MODERN PRACTICAL STANDARDS OF GAUGES.

In all these "standards" of capacity and length alleged to exist about the Great Pyramid, not
only are the theoretical and actual sizes of the supposed "standards" made to vary in different
books--which it is impossible for an actual "standard" to do--but the evidences adduced in
proof of the conformity of old or modern measures with them is notoriously defective in complete
aptness and accuracy. Measures, to be true counterparts, must, in mathematics, be not simply
"near," or "very near," which is all that is generally and vaguely claimed for the supposed
pyramidal proofs, but they must be entirely and exactly alike, which the pyramidal proofs and
so-called standards fail totally and altogether in being. Mathematical measurements of lines,
sizes, angles, etc., imply exactitude, and not mere approximation; and without that exactitude
they are not mathematical, and--far more--are they not "superhuman" and "inspired."

Besides, it must not be forgotten that our real practical standard measures are infinitely
more refined and many thousand-fold more delicate than any indefinite and equivocal measures
alleged to be found in the pyramid by even those who are most enthusiastic in the pyramidal
metrological theory. At the London Exhibition in 1851, that celebrated mechanician and engineer,
Mr. Whitworth, of Manchester, was the first to show the possibility of ascertaining by the
sense of touch alone the one-millionth of an inch in a properly-adjusted standard of linear
measure; and in his great establishment at Manchester they work and construct machinery and
tools of all kinds with differences in linear measurements amounting to one ten-thousandth
of an inch. The standards of the English inch, etc., made by him for the Government--and now
used by all the engine and tool makers, etc., of the United Kingdom--lead to the construction
of machinery, etc., to such minute divisions; and the adoption of these standards has already
effected enormous saving to the country by bringing all measured metal machinery, instruments,
and tools, wherever constructed and wherever afterwards applied and used, to the same identical
series of mathematical and precise gauges.

THE SABBATH, ETC. TYPIFIED IN THE PYRAMID.

The communication next discussed some others amongst the many and diversified matters which
Professor Smyth fancifully averred to be typified and symbolised in the Great Pyramid.

One, for example, of the chambers in the Great Pyramid--the so-called Queen's Chamber--has
a roof composed of two large blocks of stone leaning against each other, making a kind of slanting
or double roof. This double roof, and the four walls of the chamber count six, and typify,
according to Professor Smyth, the six days of the week, whilst the floor counts, as it were,
a seventh side to the room, "nobler and more glorious than the rest," and typifying something,
he conceives, of a "nobler and more glorious order"--namely, the Sabbath; it is surely difficult
to fancy anything more strange than this strange idea.[272] In forming this theory liberties
are also confessedly taken with the floor in order to make it duly larger than the other six
sides of the room, and to do so he theoretically lifts up the floor till it is placed higher
than the very entrance to the chamber; for originally the floor and sides are otherwise too
nearly alike in size to make a symbolic seven-sided room with one of the sides proportionally
and properly larger than the other six sides. Yet Professor Smyth holds that, in the above
typical way, he has "shown," or indeed "proved entirely," that the Sabbath had been heard of
before Moses, and that thus he finds unexpected and confirmatory light of a fact which, he
avers, is of "extraordinary importance, and possesses a ramifying influence through many departments
of religious life and progress."

He believes, also, that the corner-stone--so frequently alluded to by the Psalmist and the
Apostles as a symbol of the Messiah--is the head or corner-stone of the Great Pyramid, which,
though long ago removed, may yet possibly, he thinks, be discovered in the Cave of Machpelah;
though how, why, or wherefore it should have found its way to that distant and special locality
is not in any way solved or suggested.

GREAT PYRAMID ALLEGED TO BE A SUPERHUMAN, AND MORE OR LESS AN INSPIRED METROLOGICAL ERECTION.

Professor Smyth holds the Great Pyramid to be in its emblems, and intentions and work "superhuman;"
as "not altogether of human origination; and in that case whereto" (he asks) "should we look
for any human assistance to men but from Divine inspiration?" "Its metrology is," he conceives,
"directed by a higher Power" than man; its erection "directed by the fiat of Infinite Wisdom;"
and the whole "built under the direction of chosen men divinely inspired from on high for this
purpose."

If of this Divine origin, the work should be absolutely perfect; but, as owned by Professor
Smyth, the structure is not entirely correct in its orientation, in its squareness, etc. etc.--all
of them matters proving that it is human, and not superhuman. It was, Professor Smyth further
alleges, intended to convey standards of measures to all times down to, and perhaps beyond,
these latter days, "to herald in some of those accompaniments of the promised millennial peace
and goodwill to all men." Hence, if thus miraculous in its forseen uses, it ought to have remained
relatively perfect till now. But "what feature of the pyramid is there" (asks Professor Smyth)
"which renders at once in its measurements in the present day its ancient proportions? None."
If the pyramid were a miracle of this kind, then the Arabian Caliph Al Mamoon so far upset
the supposititious miracle a thousand years ago--(of course he could not have done so provided
the miracle had been truly Divine)--when he broke into the King's Chamber and unveiled its
contents; inasmuch as the builders, according to Professor Smyth, intended to conceal its secrets
for the benefit of these latter times, and for this purpose had left a mathematical sign of
two somewhat diagonal lines or joints in the floor of the descending passage, by which secret
sign or clue[273] some men or man in the far distant future, visiting the interior, should
detect the entrance to the chambers; and which secret sign Professor Smyth himself was, as
he believes, the first "man" to discover two years ago. The secret, however, thus averred to
be placed there for the detection of the entrance to the interior chambers in these latter
times, has been discovered some 1000 years at least too late for the evolution of the alleged
miraculous arrangement. And in relation to the Great Pyramid, as to other matters, we may be
sure that God does not teach by the medium of miracle anything that the unaided intellect of
man can find out; and we must beware of erroneously and disparagingly attributing to Divine
inspiration and aid, things that are imperfect and human.

       *       *       *       *       *

The communication concluded by a series of remarks, in which it was pointed out that at the
time at which the Great Pyramid was built, probably about 4000 years ago, mining, architecture,
astronomy, etc., were so advanced in various parts of the East as to present no obstacle in
the way of the erection of such magnificent mausoleums, as the colossal Great Pyramid and its
other congener pyramids undoubtedly are.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 233: See on other proposed significations and origins of the word pyramid, APPENDIX,
No. I.]

[Footnote 234: In the plain of Troy, and on the higher grounds around it, various barrows still
remain, and have been described from Pliny, Strabo, and Lucia down to Lechevalier, Forchhammer,
and Maclaren. In later times, Choiseul and Calvert have opened some of them. Homer gives a
minute account of the obsequies of Patroclus and the raising of his burial-mound, which forms,
as is generally believed, one of those twin barrows still existing on the sides of the Sigean
promontory, that pass under the name of the tumuli of Achilles and Patroclus. Pope, in translating
the passage describing the commencement of the funeral pyre, uses the word pyramid. For

   ... "those deputed to inter the slain,
   Heap with a rising pyramid the plain."

Professor Daniel Wilson, in alluding, in his Prehistoric Annals, vol. i. p. 74, to this account
by Homer of the ancient funeral-rites, and raising of the funeral-mound, speaks of the erection
of Patroclus' barrow as "the methodic construction of the Pyramid of earth which covered the
sacred deposit and preserved the memory of the honoured dead."]

[Footnote 235: Colonel Pownall, while describing in 1770 the barrow of New Grange, in Ireland,
to the London Society of Antiquaries, speaks of it as "a pyramid of stone." "This pyramid,"
he observes, "was encircled at its base with a number of enormous unhewn stones," etc. "The
pyramid, in its present state, is but a ruin of what it was," etc. etc. See Archæologia, vol.
vi. p. 254; and Higgins' Celtic Druids, p. 40, etc.]

[Footnote 236: In his Prehistoric Annals of Scotland, Dr. Daniel Wilson states (vol. i. p.
87), that "the Chambered Cairn properly possesses as its peculiar characteristic the enclosed
catacombs and galleries of megalithic masonry, branching off into various chambers symmetrically
arranged, and frequently exhibiting traces of constructive skill, such as realise in some degree
the idea of the regular pyramid." He speaks again of the stone barrows or cairns of Scotland
as "monumental pyramids" (vol. i. p. 67); of the earth barrow being an "earth pyramid or tumulus"
(p. 70); of Silbury Hill as an "earth pyramid" (p. 62): and in the same page, in alluding to
the large barrow-tomb of the ancient British chief or warrior, he states, "in its later circular
forms we see the rude type of the great pyramids of Egypt." The same learned author, in his
work on Prehistoric Man, refers to the great monuments of the American mound-builders as "earth
pyramids" (p. 202), "huge earth pyramids" (p. 205), "pyramidal earth-works" (p. 203); etc.]

[Footnote 237: In his History of Scotland, Mr. Burton speaks of the barrows of New Grange and
Maeshowe (Orkney), as erections which "may justly be called minor pyramids" (vol. i. p. 114).]

[Footnote 238: In mentioning the great numbers of sepulchral barrows spread over the world,
Sir John Lubbock observes--"In our own island they may be seen on almost every down; in the
Orkneys alone it is estimated that two thousand still remain; and in Denmark they are even
more abundant; they are found all over Europe from the shores of the Atlantic to the Oural
Mountains; in Asia they are scattered over the great steppes from the borders of Russia to
the Pacific Ocean, and from the plains of Siberia to those of Hindostan; in America we are
told that they are numbered by thousands and tens of thousands; nor are they wanting in Africa,
where the pyramids themselves exhibit the most magnificent development of the same idea; so
that the whole world is studded with these burial-places of the dead."--Prehistoric Times,
p. 85. See similar remarks in Dr. Clarke's Travels, 4th edition, vol. i. p. 276, vol. ii. p.
75, etc.]

[Footnote 239: Sir J. Gardner Wilkinson thinks that the pyramids of Sakkara are probably older
than the other groups of these structures, as those of Gizeh or the Great Pyramid erected during
the fourth dynasty of kings.--See Rawlinson's Herodotus, vol. ii. chap. viii. Manetho assigns
to Uènophes, one of the monarchs in the first dynasty, the erection of the Pyramids of Cochome.
See Kenrick's Ancient Egypt, ii. p. 112, 122, 123; Bunsen's Egypt, ii. 99, etc.]

[Footnote 240: On these Archaic forms of sculpture, see APPENDIX, No. II. In many barrows the
gallery in its course--and in some as it enters the crypt--is contracted, and more or less
occluded by obstructions of stone, etc., which Mr. Kenrick likens to the granite portcullises
in the Great Pyramid. See his Ancient Egypt, vol. i. p. 121.]

[Footnote 241: Mr. Birch, however--and it is impossible to cite a higher authority in such
a question--holds the cartouches of Shufu and Nu Shufu to refer only to one personage--namely,
the Cheops of Herodotus; and, believing with Mr. Wilde and Professor Lepsius, that the pyramids
were as royal sepulchres built and methodically extended and enlarged as the reigns of their
intended occupants lengthened out, he ascribes the unusual size of the Great Pyramid to the
unusual length--as testified by Manetho, etc.--of the reign of Cheops; the erection of a sepulchral
chamber in its built portion above being, perhaps, a step adopted in consequence of some ascertained
deficiency in the rock chamber or gallery below. Indeed, the subterranean chamber under the
Great Pyramid has, to use Professor Smyth's words, only been "begun to be cut out of the rock
from the ceiling downwards, and left in that unfinished state." (Vol. i. 156.) Mr. Perring,
who--as engineer--measured, worked, and excavated so very much at the Pyramids of Gizeh, under
Colonel Howard Vyse, held, at the end of his researches, that "the principal chamber" in the
Second Pyramid is still undetected. See Vyse's Pyramid of Gizeh, vol. i. 99.]

[Footnote 242: The Mexican Pyramid of Cholula has a base of more than 1420 feet, and is hence
about twice the length of the basis of the Great Pyramid of Gizeh. They thus called the Second,
as well as the Great Pyramid, after him (iii. § 128); but, according to Professor Smyth, the
Second Pyramid, though architecturally similar to the first, and almost equal in size, has
nothing about it of the "superhuman" character of the Great Pyramid.]

[Footnote 244: The extracts within inverted commas, here, and in other parts, are from--(1.)
Mr. John Taylor's work, entitled The Great Pyramid--Why was it Built, and Who Built it? London,
1859; and (2.) Professor Smyth's work, Our Inheritance in the Great Pyramid, Edinburgh, 1864;
(3.) his later three-volume work, Life and Work at the Great Pyramid, Edinburgh, 1867; and
(4.) Recent Measures at the Great Pyramid, in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
for 1865-66.]

[Footnote 245: Professor Smyth has omitted to state--what, after all, it was perhaps unnecessary
to state--that one set of these measurements, which he has tabulated and published, viz., that
given by Dr. Whitman, was taken for him "by a British officer of engineers;" as, when Dr. Whitman
visited Gizeh, he did not himself examine the interior of the Great Pyramid.--See Colonel Vyse's
work, vol. ii. p. 286.]

[Footnote 246: "Its contents," says Mr. Taylor (p. 299), "are equal in cubic inches to the
cube of 41,472 inches--the cubit of Karnak--viz., to 71,328 cubic inches." Elsewhere (p. 304)
he states--"The Pyramid coffer contains 256 gallons of wheat;"--"It also contains 256 gallons
of water, etc."]

[Footnote 247: At a later meeting of the Royal Society, on 20th April, Professor Smyth explained
that, among the numerous instruments he carried out, he was not provided with calipers fit
for this measurement.]

[Footnote 248: See plate iii. Fig. 1, in his great folio work on the Pyramids of Gizeh from
Actual Survey and Admeasurement, Lond. 1839. "The sarcophagus is," he remarks, "of granite,
not particularly well polished; at present it is chipped and broken at the edges. There are
not any remains of the lid, which was however, fitted on in the same manner as those of the
other pyramids."]

[Footnote 249: "The western side," observes Professor Smyth, "of the coffer is, through almost
its entire length, rather lower than the other three, and these have grooves inside, or the
remains of grooves once cut into them, about an inch or two below their summits, and on a level
with the western edge; in fact, to admit a sliding sarcophagus cover or lid; and there were
the remains of three fixing pin-holes on the western side, for fastening such cover into its
place." (Vol. i. p. 85.)]

[Footnote 250: For age, etc., of Al Hakm, see Dr. Rieu in APPENDIX No. III.; and Jomard on
length of the Sarcophagus, No. IV.]

[Footnote 251: In the original Arabic, the expression is "birdlike (or hieroglyphic) characters
writ with a reed."]

[Footnote 252: See Greaves' Works, vol. i. p. 61 and p. 115. In Colonel Vyse's works are adduced
other Arabian authors who allude to this discovery of a body with golden armour, etc., etc.,
in the sarcophagus of the King's Chamber; as Alkaisi, who testifies that "he himself saw the
case (the cartonage or mummy-case) from which the body had been taken, and that it stood at
the door of the King's Palace at Cairo, in the year 511" A.H. (See The Pyramids of Gizeh, vol.
ii. p. 334). See also to the same effect Abon Szalt, p. 357; and Ben Abd Al Rahman, as cited
in the Description de l'Egypte, vol. ii. p. 191. "It may be remarked," observes Dr. Sprenger
in Colonel Vyse's work, "that the Arabian authors have given the same accounts of the pyramids,
with little or no variation, for above a thousand years." (Vol. ii. p. 328.) See further APPENDIX,
p. 270.]

[Footnote 253: See APPENDIX, No. VII.]

[Footnote 254: Our great Scottish architect, Mr. Bryce, believes that, with these data given,
any well-informed master-mason or clerk of works could have drawn or planned and superintended
the building.]

[Footnote 255: See Newton's Essay, in Professor Smyth's work, vol. ii. 360; and Sir Henry James'
masterly Memorandum on the Length of the cubit of Memphis, in APPENDIX, No. V.]

[Footnote 256: Sir Isaac Newton says--"In the precise determination of the cubit of Memphis,
I should choose to pitch upon the length of the chamber in the middle of the pyramid." Greaves
gives this length 34·38 = 20 cubits of 20·628 inches.]

[Footnote 257: Yet this, the Memphian cubit, "need not" (somewhat mysteriously adds Professor
Smyth), "and actually is not, by any means the same as the cubit typified in the more concealed
and symbolised metrological system of the Great Pyramid."]

[Footnote 258: Godfrey Higgins, in his work on The Celtic Druids, shows how, among the ancients,
superstitions connected with numbers, as the days of the year or the figures 365, have played
a prominent part. "Amongst the ancients" (says he) "there was no end of the superstitious and
trifling play upon the nature and value of numbers. The first men of antiquity indulged themselves
in these fooleries" (p. 244). Mr. Higgins points out that the old Welsh or British word for
Stonehenge, namely Emrys, signifies, according to Davies, 365; as do the words Mithra, Neilos,
etc.; that certain collections of the old Druidic stones at Abury may be made to count 365;
that "the famous Abraxas only meant the solar period of 365 days, or the sun," etc. "It was
all judicial astrology.... It comes" (adds Mr. Higgins) "from the Druids."]

[Footnote 259: See this table in Professor Smyth's Life and Work at the Great Pyramid, vol.
ii. p. 458. The table professes to give some of Sir Isaac Newton's data regarding the Sacred
Cubit by changing the measurements which Sir Isaac uses of the Roman foot and inch into English
inches. But all the figures and measurements are transferred into English inches by a different
rule from that which Sir Isaac himself lays down--viz., that the English foot is 0·967 of the
Roman foot; and, consequently, in every one of the instances given in Mr. Smyth's table, the
lengths in English inches of these data of Sir Isaac Newton are assuredly not their lengths
in English inches as understood and laid down by Newton himself.]

[Footnote 260: The fourth line in the table presents a most fatal and unfortunate error in
a special calculation to which the very highest importance is professed to be attached. This
fourth line gives the measurement of the Sacred Cubit as quoted by Newton from Mersennus, who
laid down its length as 25·68 inches of Roman measurement. Professor Smyth changes this Roman
measurement into 24·91 English inches, and then erroneously enters these same identical Roman
and English measurements of Mersennus--viz., 24·91 and 25·68--not as one identical quantity,
which they are--but as two different and contrasting quantities; and further, he tabulates
this strange mistake as one of the "methods of approach" for gaining a correct idea of the
Sacred Cubit. Never, perhaps, has so unhappy an error been made in a work of an arithmetical
and mathematical character.]

[Footnote 261: Thus, after deducing the length of the cubit of Memphis from the length of the
King's Chamber, Sir Isaac Newton observes:--"From hence I would infer that the Sacred Cubit
of Moses was equal to 25 unciæ of the Roman foot and 6/10 of an uncia." In other words, according
to Sir Isaac Newton, the Sacred Cubit of 25·60 inches of the Roman foot is equal to 24·75 British
inches; for, as he calculated, the Roman foot "was equal to 967/1000 the English foot." (See
p. 342.) This is the measurement of the Roman foot laid down by Sir Isaac Newton in his Dissertation,
and the only standard of it mentioned in Professor Smyth's Life and Work at the Great Pyramid;
yet in that work Professor Smyth calculates Sir Isaac's Sacred Cubit to be 24·82 instead of
24·75 British inches. In doing so, he has calculated the English foot as equal to ·970 of the
Roman foot; but was he entitled to do so when using Sir Isaac's own data, and when employing
Sir Isaac's own calculated conclusion as to the length of the Sacred Cubit? In the published
Proceedings of the Royal Society, in consequence of following the calculation by Professor
Smyth of Sir Isaac Newton's conclusion from Sir Isaac's own data as to the length of the Sacred
Cubit, it was erroneously spoken of as 24·82, instead of 24·75 British inches.]

[Footnote 262: This word "extraordinarily," was, by a clerical or printer's error, spelled
"extraordinary" in the Proceedings of the Royal Society; and a friend who looked over the printed
proof, and suggested two or three corrections, placed the word (sic) on the margin after it,
from whence it slipped into the text:--accidents to be much regretted, as, from Professor Smyth's
remarks to the Society on the 20th April, they had evidently given him much, but most unintentional
offence.]

[Footnote 263: At the close of a subsequent meeting of the Royal Society, on the 20th April
1868, Professor Smyth gave away a printed Appendix to his three-volume work, in which he has
acknowledged the erroneous character--as pointed out in this communication--of his all-important
table, p. 22, on the length of the Sacred Cubit, by withdrawing it, and offering one of a new
construction and character, but without being able to make the length of the cubit come nearer
to his theory. Amsterdam edition (1723), p. 195.]

[Footnote 265: Tables Portatives de Logarithmes. Paris, 1795, p. 100.]

[Footnote 266: The same idea of using the earth's axis as a standard of length has been suggested
also by Professor Hennessy of Dublin, and by Sir John Herschel. See Athenæum for April 1860,
pp. 581 and 617.]

[Footnote 267: The diameter of the earth in latitude 30° is really about 20 miles longer than
the polar axis. But Mr. Taylor obviously did not know the nature of the spheroidal arcs of
the meridian, and so falls into the most inconsistent assertions respecting the length of this
particular diameter. Thus, in pp. 75 and 87, he asserts the diameter in latitude 30° to be
500,000,000 inches [that is = 7891·414 miles], which is 7·756 miles less than the polar axis--the
least diameter of all; whereas, in p. 95, he states this diameter in lat. 30° to be 17·652
miles greater than the polar axis.]

[Footnote 268: "The diameter of the earth, according to the measures taken at the Pyramids,
is 41,666,667 English feet, or 500,000,000 inches." (See The Great Pyramid, p. 75.) "Dividing
this number by 20,000,000 we obtain the measure of 25 (English) inches for the Sacred Cubit"
(p. 67).]

[Footnote 269: "When" (says Mr. Taylor, p. 91) "the new Earth was measured in Egypt after the
Deluge, it was found that it exceeded the diameter of the old Earth by the difference between
497,664,000 inches and 500,000,000 inches; that is, by 2,336,000 inches, equal to 36·868 miles."]

[Footnote 270: Alleged Sacred Character of the Scottish Yard or Ell Measure.--Professor Smyth
tries to show (iii. 597), that if Britain stands too low in his metrological testing of the
European kingdoms and races, its "low entry is due to accepting the yard for the country's
popular measure of length." But long ago the "divine" origin of the Scottish ell--as in recent
times the divine origin of the so-called pyramidal cubit and inch--was pleaded rather strenuously.
For when, in the 13th century, Edward I. of England laid before Pope Boniface his reasons for
attaching the kingdom of Scotland to the Crown of England, he maintained, among other arguments,
the justice and legality of this appropriation on the ground that his predecessor King Athelstane,
after subduing a rebellion in Scotland under the auspices of St. John of Beverley, prayed that
through the intervention of that saint, it "might be granted to him to receive a visible and
tangible token by which all future ages might be assured that the Scots were rightfully subject
to the King of England. His prayer was granted in this way: Standing in front of one of the
rocks at Dunbar, he made a cut at it with his sword, and left a score which proved to be the
precise length of an ell, and was adopted as the regulation test of that measure of length."
This legend of the "miraculously created ellwand standard" was afterwards duly attested by
a weekly service in the Church of St. John of Beverley. (See Burton's History of Scotland,
ii. 319.) In the official account of the miracle, as cited by Rymer, it is declared that during
its performance the rock cut like butter or soft mud under the stroke of Athelstane's sword.
"Extrahens gladium de vaginâ percussit in cilicem, quæ adeo penetrabilis, Dei virtute agente,
fuit gladio, quasi eâdem horâ lapis butirum esset, vel mollis glarea; ... et usque ad presentem
diem, evidens signum patet, quod Scoti, ab Anglis devicti ac subjugata; monumento tali evidenter
cunctis adeuntibus demonstrante." (Foedera, tom. i. pars ii. 771.)]

[Footnote 271: Elsewhere (p. 45) Mr. Taylor corroborates Sir Isaac Newton's opinion that the
working cubit by which the Pyramid was built was the cubit of Memphis.]

[Footnote 272: The interior of any Scottish cottage, where the inside of the thatched or slated
roof is left exposed by uncovered joists within, contains, on the same principle, six sides,
and a seventh or the floor.]

[Footnote 273: "The clue was not prepared for any immediate successors of the builders, but
was intended, on the contrary, to endure to a most remote period. And it has so endured and
served such a purpose even down to those our own days." (Professor Smyth's Life and Work at
the Great Pyramid, vol. i. p. 157.) "The builders, or planners rather, of the Great Pyramid,
did not leave their building without sure testimony to its chief secret; for there, before
the eyes of all men for ages, had existed these two diagonal joints in the passage floor, pointing
directly and constantly to what was concealed in the roof just opposite them, and no one ever
thought of it. Practically, then, we may say with full certainty that these two floor marks
were left there to guide men who, it was expected, would come subsequently, earnestly desiring,
on rightly-informed principles, to look for the entrance to the upper parts of the Pyramid."
(Vol. i. p. 156-7.) At p. 270 Professor Smyth again alludes to this supposed mark, made up
by two diagonal joints in the passage floor, as evading the notice of all visitors, except
"those very few, or perhaps even that one only man, who had been previously instructed to look
for a certain almost microscopic mark on the floor."]

APPENDIX.

I.--DERIVATION OF THE TERM PYRAMID. (Page 219.)

Professor Smyth suggests the origin of the term Pyramid from the two Coptic words, "pyr," "division,"
and "met," "ten." This derivation, which he first heard of in Cairo, is, he believes, a significant
appellation for a metrological monument such as the Great Pyramid, and coincides with its five-sided,
five-cornered, etc., features (see anteriorly, p. 255) and decimal divisions. But surely a
name, which in this metrological and arithmetical view of "powers and times of ten and five,"
meant division into ten, and which divisional metrological ideas applied, according to Professor
Smyth, to one pyramid only, namely the Great Pyramid of Gizeh, was not likely to have been
applied as a general term to all the other pyramidal structures in Egypt--not one of which
had, according to Professor Smyth himself, anything whatsoever of this metrological or divisional
character in their composition and object. It is not likely that all these structures should
have been named from a series of qualities supposed to belong to one; but altogether hidden
and concealed, in these early times, even in that one pyramid, being for the information of
future times and generations.

In a similar spirit of exclusiveness, Mr. John Taylor derives the word pyramid from the two
Greek words [Greek: pyros], wheat, and [Greek: metron], measure--apparently in the belief that
the coffer or sarcophagus within one pyramid (the Great Pyramid) was intended as a chaldron
measure of wheat--though none of the sarcophagi, in any of the many other royal pyramidal sepulchres
of Egypt, were at all intended for such standard measures; and although, according to Mr. Taylor's
theory, the Greeks, too, who out of their own language applied the term of Pyramid, or Wheat-Measurer,
to all these structures,--never dreamed of the Great Pyramid or of any other of them having
locked up in one of its concealed chambers a supposed standard measure of capacity of wheat,
water, etc., for all nations and all times.

Fifteen centuries ago, Ammianus Marcellinus derived the word pyramid from another Greek word
[Greek: pyr], fire; because, as he argues, the Egyptian Pyramid rises to a sharp pointed top,
like to the form of a fire or flame. This derivation, which, of course, excludes the mathematical
idea of the sides of the pyramid being a series of flattened triangles that meet in a point
at the apex, has been adopted by various authors.

Keats, the poor surgeon, but rich poet, who died at Rome at the early age of twenty-six, was
buried in the beautiful Protestant Cemetery there, amid the ruins of the Aurelian Walls. His
grave is surmounted by a pyramidal tomb, which Petrarch romantically ascribed to Remus, but
which antiquarians generally accord, in conformity with the inscription which it bears, to
Caius Cestius, a tribune of the people, who is remembered for nothing else than his sepulchre.

For a learned discussion on various other supposed origins of the word pyramid, see Jomard,
in the Description de l'Egypte, vol. ii. p. 213, etc.

II.--ARCHAIC CIRCLE AND RING SCULPTURES. (Page 222.)

Representations of incised cups, rings, circles, and spirals, are found on stones connected
with other forms of ancient sculpture besides chambered barrows or cairns,--as on the lids
of stone cists, megalithic circles, etc.; and, from this connection with the burial of the
dead, these antique sculpturings were possibly of a religious character. In a work on "Archaic
Sculpturings of Cups, Rings, etc. upon Stones and Rocks of Scotland, England, and other Countries,"
published last year by the author of the present communication, it was further argued that
they were probably also ornamental in their character, in a chapter beginning as follows:--

"Without attempting to solve the mystery connected with these archaic lapidary cups and ring
cuttings, I would venture to remark that there is one use for which some of these olden stone
carvings were in all probability devoted--namely, ornamentation. From the very earliest historic
periods in the architecture of Egypt, Assyria, Greece, etc., down to our own day, circles,
single or double, and spirals, have formed, under various modifications, perhaps the most common
fundamental types of lapidary decoration. In prehistoric times the same taste for circular
sculpturings, however rough and rude, seems to have swayed the mind of archaic man. This observation
as to the probable ornamental origin of our cup and ring carvings holds, in my opinion, far
more strongly in respect to some antique stone cuttings in Ireland and in Brittany, than to
the ruder and simpler forms that I have described as existing in Scotland and England. For
instance, the cut single and double volutes, the complete and half-concentric circles, the
zig-zag, and other patterns which cover almost entirely and completely some stones in those
magnificent though rude western Pyramids that constitute the grand old mausolea of Ireland
and Brittany, appear to be, in great part at least, of an ornamental character, whatever else
their import may be."

In a communication on the Great Pyramid, made to the Royal Society 16th December 1867, Professor
Smyth most unexpectedly, and quite out of his way, took occasion to criticise severely the
remarks contained in the preceding extract, on two grounds:

First, He laid down that the term pyramid was misapplied, as the term referred only to figures
and structures of a special mathematical form; being apparently quite unaware that, as shown
in the text and notes, pp. 219 and 220, it was often applied archæologically to sepulchral
mounds and erections that were not faced, and which did not consist of a series of triangles
meeting in an apex.

Secondly, He objected to the statement that, "from the very earliest historic periods in the
architecture of Egypt, Assyria, Greece, etc., circles and spirals, or modifications of them,
constituted perhaps the most common fundamental types of lapidary decoration;" because, though
circles, spirals, etc., occurred in the later architecture of Thebes, etc., yet in the Great
Pyramid of Gizeh no such decorations were to be found, nor, indeed, lapidary decorations of
any other kind. Cheops, the builder of the Great Pyramid, was, according to Manetho, "arrogant
towards the gods." Was it this spirit of religious infidelity or scepticism that led to the
rejection of any ornamentation? Professor Smyth notices what he himself terms an "ornament,"
"a most unique thing certainly," on the upper stone of what Greaves calls "the granite leaf"
portcullis, in the interior of the Great Pyramid (ii. 100), and he represents it, it is now
said erroneously in plate xii. as a portion of a double circle instead of a general raised
elevation.[275]

All the other Pyramids of Gizeh seem, like the Great Pyramid, wonderfully free from lapidary
decorations on their interior walls, the exteriors of all of them being now too much dilapidated
to offer any distinct proof in relation to the subject; though in Herodotus' time there were
hieroglyphics, at least on the external surface of the Great Pyramid. The whole surface of
the basalt sarcophagus in the Third Pyramid, or that of Mycerinus, was sculptured. "It was,"
to use the words of Baron Bunsen, "very beautifully carved in compartments, in the Doric style"
(vol. ii. 168). This carving, in the well-known carpentry form, was, according to Mr. Fergusson,
a representation of a palace (Handbook of Architecture, p. 222).

Fragments, however, of lapidary sculpture have been found among the ruins of Egyptian pyramids
supposed to be older than those of Gizeh, or than their builders, the Memphite kings of the
fourth dynasty. Thus one of the most able and learned of modern Egyptologists, Baron Bunsen,
has written at some length to show that the great northern brick pyramid of Dashoor belongs
to the preceding or third dynasty of kings. Colonel Vyse and Mr. Perring, when digging among
its ruins, discovered two or three fragments of sculptured casing and other stones, with a
few pieces presenting broken hieroglyphic inscriptions. One of the ornamented fragments represents
a row of floreated-like decorations, and each decoration shows on its side a concentric circle,
consisting of three rings,--the whole ornament being one which is found in later Egyptian eras,
not unfrequently along the tops of walls in the interior of chambers, etc. Mr. Perring represents
this fragment of sculpturing from the brick Pyramid of Dashoor, in his folio work, The Pyramids
of Gizeh, plate xiii. Fig. 7. Hence among the very earliest Egyptian lapidary decorations we
have, as in other countries, the appearance of the simple circular ornamentation.

Besides, more complex circular and spiral decorations, in the form of the well-known guilloche
and scroll, were made use of in Egypt during the sixth dynasty, or immediately after the Memphite
dynasty that reared the larger Pyramids of Gizeh. Thus, speaking of the ancient Egyptian architectural
decorations, Sir J. Gardner Wilkinson observes--"The Egyptians did not always confine themselves
to the mere imitation of natural objects for ornament; and their ceilings and cornices offer
numerous graceful fancy devices, among which are the guilloche, miscalled Tuscan borders, the
chevron, and the scroll patterns. They are to be met with in a tomb of the time of the sixth
dynasty; they are therefore known in Egypt many ages before they were adopted by the Greeks,
and the most complicated form of the guilloche covered a whole Egyptian ceiling, upwards of
a thousand years before it was represented on those comparatively late objects found at Nineveh."--Popular
account of the Ancient Egyptians, ii. 290.

III.--ERA OF THE ARABIAN HISTORIAN, IBN ABD AL HAKM. (Page 236.)

Professor Smyth owns that the grooves and pin holes which the coffer in the King's Chamber
presents, were (to use his own words) "in fact to admit a sliding sarcophagus cover or lid"
(see ante, p. 236, footnote). But in his recent communication to the Royal Society on the 20th
April, he doubted Al Hakm's account of the mummy having been actually found in the sarcophagus
when the King's Chamber was first entered by the Caliph Al Mamoon, in the ninth century, arguing,
on the authority of a Glasgow gentleman, that the historian himself, Al Hakm, did not live
for three or four centuries afterwards, and, therefore, could not be relied upon. But all this
reasoning or assertion is simply a mistake. In a late letter (7th April), Dr. Rieu of the British
Museum,--the chief living authority among us on any such Arabic question,--writes, "The statement
relating to Al Mamoon's discovery could hardly rest on a better authority than that of Ibn
Abd Al Hakm; for not only was he a contemporary writer (having died at Old Cairo, A.H. 269,
that is, thirty-eight years after Al Mamoon's death), but he is constantly quoted by later
writers as an historian of the highest authority. You will find a notice of him in Khallikan's
Biographical Dictionary, vol. ii. etc." He was a native of Egypt, and chief of the Shafite
sect. Born in A.D. 799, he died in A.D. 882, or at the age of 83.

IV.--LENGTH OF THE SARCOPHAGUS IN THE KING'S CHAMBER. (Page 236.)

M. Jomard, in the Description de l'Egypte, drawn up by the French Academicians, remarks in
vol. ii. p. 182, that looking to the length of the cavity or interior of the sarcophagus in
the King's Chamber, that it could not hold within it a cartonage or mummy case, enclosing a
man of the ordinary height. This statement proceeds entirely upon a miscalculation. The length
of the interior or cavity of the sarcophagus is six and a half English feet; and the average
stature of the ancient Egyptians, "judging from their mummies, did not" observes Mr. Kenrick,
"exceed five feet and a half." (See his Ancient Egypt, vol. i. p. 97.) The space thus left,
of one foot, is much more than sufficient for the thickness of the two ends of a cartonage
or mummy case; and the embalmed body was generally, or indeed always, closely packed within
them. The length of the coffin was, long ago, quaintly observed Professor Greaves, "large enough
to contain a most potent and dreadful monarch being dead, to whom, living, all Egypt was too
strait and narrow a circuit" (Works, i. p. 131).

V.--MEMORANDUM ON THE CUBIT OF MEMPHIS AND THE SACRED CUBIT, BY SIR HENRY JAMES. (See vol.
ii. p. 362 of Professor Smyth's Life at the Pyramids, etc.)

Greaves' measures of the King's chamber are given at p. 335, vol. ii. of the same work.

The length of the chamber on the south side, he says, is

       34·380 feet   = 20 cubits.
       17·190  "     = 10 cubits.
           12
      -------
      206·280 inches = 10 cubits,
   and 20·628   "    =  1 cubit of Memphis;

and Newton himself says, at p. 360, vol. ii. Life at the Pyramids,--

   "The cubit of Memphis of 1·719 English feet,"
                               12
                           ------
                        or 20·628 inches,

and, therefore, there can be no possible doubt but that this is Newton's determination of the
length of the cubit of Memphis.

But Newton goes on to say in the same page, the cubit "double the length of 12-3/8 English
inches (=24·75 inches) will be to the cubit of Memphis as 6 to 5."

   Therefore, if we add 1/5 to 20·628 inches,
                                4·126
                               ------
                       we have 24·754

as Newton's determination of the length of the Sacred Cubit.

Newton's determinations are therefore--

   Length of Sacred Cubit   24·754 inches.
      "    Cubit of Memphis 20·628   "

The cubit measured by Mersennus (see p. 362, vol. ii. Life at the Pyramids) was 23-1/4 Paris
inches, and Mr. Greaves estimated the Paris foot as equal to 1·068 of the English foot; therefore
23·25 + 1·068=24·831 was the length of this cubit, if we take Greaves' proportion of the Paris
to the English foot; but by the more exact determination of the proportion of the Paris to
the English foot made at the Ordnance Survey Office, Southampton, it is found to be as 1 to
1·06576 and 23·25 + 1·06576=24·780 English inches, which differs only in excess ·026 from the
length of the Sacred Cubit determined by Newton.

The double Royal Cubit of Karnak, which is in the British Museum, was found by Sir Henry James
to measure 41·398 inches; the length of the single cubit was therefore 20·699 inches, and differs
only in excess ·071 inches from the length of the cubit of Memphis, as determined by Newton.

It will be observed that the lengths of the cubits derived by Newton from the length of the
King's chamber are shorter than the measured lengths of the cubits which have come down to
us. But if

   we add 1/5 or                 =  4·140 to the length of the
   Karnak cubit                  = 20·699,
                                   ------
   we have                         24·839 for the Sacred Cubit.

   The one measured by Mersennus = 24·780 and the
                                   ------
   mean of the two               = 24·810, whilst the
   length derived by Newton was  = 24·754, showing
                                   ------
   a difference of only              ·056  between the
                                   ======

length of the Sacred Cubit derived from the actual lengths of the two cubits which have come
down to us, and the length of the Sacred Cubit derived by Newton from the length of the King's
chamber.

The method adopted by Professor P. Smyth, to find the length of the Sacred Cubit, in p. 458,
vol. ii. Life at the Pyramids, is also wrong in principle. He has no right to take the means
between the limits of approach, or to say that the Sacred Cubit was, according to Sir Isaac
Newton, 25·07 inches, when, as I have shown in his own words, Sir Isaac says it was 24·754 inches.

VI.--PROFESSOR SMYTH'S RECENT COMMUNICATION TO THE ROYAL SOCIETY ON 20TH APRIL 1868.

It has been already stated (see footnote, p. 248) that, on the 20th April Professor Smyth brought
before the Royal Society a new communication on the pyramids, the principal part of which consisted
of a criticism upon the preceding observations, and a defence of his hypotheses regarding the
Great Pyramid. His chief criticisms related to points already adverted to, and answered in
footnotes, pp. 234, 248, etc. In addition, he expressed great dissatisfaction that the quotation
from Sprenger, in Vyse's Work, quoted in footnote, p. 237, was not extended beyond the semicolon
in the original, at which the quotation ends, and made to embrace the other or latter half
of the sentence, viz., " ...; and that they appear to have repeated the traditions of the ancient
Egyptians, mixed up with fabulous stories and incidents, certainly not of Mahometan invention."[276]
But this latter half, or the traditions about the pyramid builders, Surid, Ben Shaluk, Ben
Sermuni, etc., who lived "before the Flood," etc. etc., did assuredly not require to be quoted,
as they had really nothing whatever to do with the object under discussion--viz., the opening
of the sarcophagus under the Caliph Al Mamoon, and the accounts or history of the pyramids,
as given by Arabian authors themselves.

In the course of this communication to the Royal Society, Professor Smyth did not allude to
or rescind the erroneous table and calculations from Sir Isaac Newton regarding the Sacred
Cubit, printed and commented upon in some of the preceding pages (see ante, p. 244, etc.) But,
at the end of the subsequent discussion he handed round, as a printed "Appendix" to his three
volume work, a total withdrawal of this table, etc., and in this way so far confessed the justice
of the exposition of his errors on this all-vital and testing point in his theory of the Sacred
Cubit, as given in p. 243, etc., of the present essay. He attributes his errors to "an unfortunate
misprinting of the calculated numbers;" and (though he does not at all specialise what numbers
were thus misprinted) he gives from Sir Isaac Newton's Dissertation on the Sacred Cubit a new
and more lengthened table instead of the old and erroneous table. For this purpose, instead
of selecting as he did, without any attempted explanation in his old table, only five of Sir
Isaac Newton's estimations or "methods of approach," he now, in his new table, takes seven
of them to strike out new "means." The simple "mean" of all the seven quantities tabulated--as
calculated, in the way followed, in his first published table--is 25·47 British inches; and
the "mean" of all the seven means in the Table is 25·49 British inches. Unfortunately for Professor
Smyth's theory of the Sacred Cubit being 25·025 British inches, either of these numbers makes
the Sacred Cubit nearly half a British inch longer than his avowed standard of length--an overwhelming
difference in any question relating to a standard measure. What would any engineer, or simple
worker in metal, wood, or stone, think of an alleged standard measure or cubit which varied
so enormously from its own alleged length? But, surely, such facts and such results require
no serious comment.

