Preparations for Gilbert's second and fateful expedition now went forward, and public interest
was much aroused by the return of Drake, in 1580, laden with the spoils of America. Gilbert
invited Raleigh to accompany him as vice-admiral, but the queen would not let him accept.[1]
Indeed, she seemed to have a presentiment that all would not go well, and when the arrangements
for the voyage were nearing completion she caused her secretary of state, Walsingham, to let
Gilbert also know that, "of her special care" for him, she wished his stay at home "as a man
noted of no good hap by sea."[2] But the queen's remark only proved her desire for Gilbert's
safety; and she soon after sent him word that she wished him as "great goodhap and safety to
his ship as if herself were there in person," and requested his picture as a keepsake.[3] The
fleet of Sir Humphrey Gilbert, consisting of five ships bearing two hundred and sixty men,
sailed from Plymouth June 11, 1583, and the "mishaps" which the queen feared soon overtook
them. After scarcely two days of voyage the ship sent by Raleigh, the best in the fleet, deserted.
Two more ships got separated, and the crew of one of them, freed from Gilbert's control, turned
pirates and plundered a French ship which fell in their way. Nevertheless, Gilbert pursued
his course, and on August 3, 1583, he reached the harbor of St. John's in Newfoundland, where
he found the two missing ships. Gilbert showed his commission to the fishing vessels, of which
there were no fewer than thirty-six of all nations in port, and their officers readily recognized
his authority. Two days later he took possession of the country in the name of Queen Elizabeth,
and as an indication of the national sovereignty to all men he caused the arms of England engraved
on lead to be fixed on a pillar of wood on the shore side.

Mishaps did not end with the landing in Newfoundland. The emigrants who sailed with Gilbert
were better fitted for a crusade than a colony, and, disappointed at not at once finding mines
of gold and silver, many deserted; and soon there were not enough sailors to man all the four
ships. Accordingly, the Swallow was sent back to England with the sick; and with the remainder
of the fleet, well supplied at St. John's with fish and other necessaries, Gilbert (August
20) sailed south as far as forty-four degrees north latitude. Off Sable Island a storm assailed
them, and the largest of the vessels, called the Delight, carrying most of the provisions,
was driven on a rock and went to pieces.

Overwhelmed by this terrible misfortune, the colonists returned to Newfoundland, where, yielding
to his crew, Gilbert discontinued his explorations, and on August 31 changed the course of
the two ships remaining, the Squirrel and Golden Hind, directly for England. The story of the
voyage back is most pathetic. From the first the sea was boisterous; but to entreaties that
he should abandon the Squirrel, a little affair of ten tons, and seek his own safety in the
Hind, a ship of much larger size, Gilbert replied, "No, I will not forsake my little company
going homeward, with whom I have passed so many storms and perils." Even then, amid so much
danger, his spirit rose supreme, and he actually planned for the spring following two expeditions,
one to the south and one to the north; and when some one asked him how he expected to meet
the expenses in so short a time, he replied, "Leave that to me, and I will ask a penny of no man."

A terrible storm arose, but Gilbert retained the heroic courage and Christian faith which had
ever distinguished him. As often as the Hind, tossed upon the waves, approached within hailing
distance of the Squirrel, the gallant admiral, "himself sitting with a book in his hand" on
the deck, would call out words of cheer and consolation--"We are as near heaven by sea as by
land." When night came on (September 10) only the lights in the riggings of the Squirrel told
that the noble Gilbert still survived. At midnight the lights went out suddenly, and from the
watchers on the Hind the cry arose, "The admiral is cast away." And only the Golden Hind returned
to England.[4]

The mantle of Gilbert fell upon the shoulders of his half-brother Sir Walter Raleigh, whose
energy and versatility made him, perhaps, the foremost Englishman of his age. When the Hind
returned from her ill-fated voyage Raleigh was thirty-one years of age and possessed a person
at once attractive and commanding. He was tall and well proportioned, had thick, curly locks,
beard, and mustaches, full, red lips, bluish gray eyes, high forehead, and a face described
as "long and bold."

By service in France, the Netherlands, and Ireland he had shown himself a soldier of the same
fearless stamp as his half-brother Sir Humphrey Gilbert; and he was already looked upon as
a seaman of splendid powers for organization. Poet and scholar, he was the patron of Edmund
Spenser, the famous author of the Faerie Queene; of Richard Hakluyt, the naval historian; of
Le Moyne and John White, the painters; and of Thomas Hariot, the great mathematician.

Expert in the art of gallantry, Raleigh won his way to the queen's heart by deftly placing
between her feet and a muddy place his new plush coat. He dared the extremity of his political
fortunes by writing on a pane of glass which the queen must see, "Fain would I climb, but fear
I to fall." And she replied with an encouraging--"If thy heart fail thee, climb not at all."
The queen's favor developed into magnificent gifts of riches and honor, and Raleigh received
various monopolies, many forfeited estates, and appointments as lord warden of the stannaries,
lieutenant of the county of Cornwall, vice-admiral of Cornwall and Devon, and captain of the
queen's guard.

The manner in which Raleigh went about the work of colonization showed remarkable forethought
and system. In order to enlist the active cooperation of the court and gentry, he induced Richard
Hakluyt to write for him, in 1584, his Discourse on Western Planting, which he circulated in
manuscript.[5] He not only received from the queen in 1584 a patent similar to Gilbert's,[6]
but by obtaining a confirmation from Parliament in 1585 he acquired a national sanction which
Gilbert's did not possess.[7]

In imitation of Gilbert he sent out first an exploring expedition commanded by Arthur Barlow
and Philip Amidas; but, warned by his brother's experience, he directed them to go southward.
They left the west of England April 27, 1584, and arrived upon the coast of North Carolina
July 4, where they passed into Ocracoke Inlet south of Cape Hatteras. There, landing on an
island called Wokokon--part of the broken outer coast--Barlow and Amidas took possession in
the right of the queen and Sir Walter Raleigh.[8]

Several weeks were spent in exploring Pamlico Sound, which they found dotted with many small
islands, the largest of which, sixteen miles long, called by the Indians Roanoke Island, was
fifty miles north of Wokokon. About the middle of September, 1584, they returned to England
and reported as the name of the new country "Wincondacoa," which the Indians at Wokokon had
cried when they saw the white men, meaning "What pretty clothes you wear!" The queen, however,
was proud of the new discovery, and suggested that it should be called, in honor of herself,
"Virginia."

