We have our 2 o'clock rains each day and then the sun comes out and just burns. This is a good
climate for snakes, lizards, etc. Many of the boys have died, but, thank God, I am still in
the land of the living. Words are inadequate to express the feeling of pain and sickness when
one has the fever. For about a week every bone in my body ached and I did not care much whether
I lived or not. The doctor shoved quinine into me by the spoonful until my head felt as if
all the bells in Chicago were ringing in it. I could hear them, even when delirious. The news
that we are to go back to the United States in a few weeks has saved many a boy's life.

FEAR YELLOW FEVER.

I was scared at first when I was ordered to the yellow fever hospital I thought my time had
come, but they examined me and pronounced my case some other than yellow fever. The boys fear
yellow jack like a rattlesnake. When I return I will know how to appreciate my country. I am
very weak and sick, but I think I will be well in a short time after I get home. With all I
have suffered I am ready for more if Uncle Sam wants me.

As to the fight, our four troops of the Second United States cavalry were the only mounted
troops in Cuba. We were the staff escort. I tell you, it is worth all the trials, and hardships,
and sickness which I underwent, when I contemplated the scene of the surrender of Santiago.
When Old Glory went up I cried and felt ashamed and looked around to see if any of my comrades
had noticed me. I found they were all crying. Then we began to laugh and yell again so we would
not be babies. I tell you, it was the proudest moment of my life.

PICKS OFF SPANIARDS.

I was in the San Juan hill fight. We were used mostly as scouts. I know there are two or three
poor Spaniards killed or in hospitals. I took it coolly and just shot at every Spaniard I could
see, far or near. I aim sure I dropped three. It is quite ticklish at first to be under fire,
but the novelty soon wears off.

JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE AT MANILA.

A. J. Luther, second lieutenant of the First Colorado volunteers, writes as follows, dated
Camp Dewey, July 27:

You may talk about your Cuban war and all other wars, but you may rest assured that the Philippine
war is no snap, either. All the land around us for miles and miles is nothing but deep jungles
and swampy ground. On our west lies Manila bay, 100 yards from our camp. On the north, for
four miles, to Manila, in fact, a jungle and swamp, while on the east it is swamp and on the
south more swamp. Our camp is on a long strip of land between a heavy jungle on all sides.
It is a good camp, considering the location which is made necessary by the position of the
Spaniards.

I am reliably informed that the natives of these islands are no farther advanced in civilization
than they were 300 years ago. They live in old boats on the water, in palm trees, in bark huts,
or wherever they can hold on long enough to live. Their life is one of degradation and four-fifths
of them have noxious diseases. You can imagine what a nasty mess we have got into.

They wear for dress very thin cheesecloth and they keep that scanty raiment as clean as any
class of people on earth, but their bodies do not seem to amount to that much trouble in their
eyes. From the way they take care of themselves I imagine that they consider their clothes
the only essential part of their exterior that ought to be kept clean.

We have not gone into Manila yet and I cannot say just when we will, but you will know through
the papers when we do. I want you to send me all the papers you get hold of which contain anything
relating to the Manila troops. We have a lot of correspondents with us and between them you
can glean all the news of importance.

We have only been called out once since our arrival here and nothing happened then. I have
been under the enemy's fire three times, shot landing all around me. Major Moses, Captain Taylor,
Captain Grove and Lieutenant Lister, with an interpreter, were detailed to make a special reconnaissance
of the country and the position of the enemy. They went within 300 yards of the Spanish intrenchments
and were sighted by the enemy's patrol. Captain Taylor was standing on the top of a brick wall
when they let fly at the party and one bullet hit about ten inches under his feet.

The other day I was put in charge of the company to repair roads along behind the insurgents'
line, and we were only 300 yards from the enemy's line all the time, so you can see how near
to the jaws of danger we work. Our camp is under the range of their big guns, but they have
never thrown any shells into us yet.

While working on the road they kept up a fire at us, however, and one large cannonball plowed
up the road not twenty-five feet away. It whistled through the air like a nail when thrown
from the hand. At the same time you could hear Mauser balls whistling around us. This is a
warm country. One especially feels that way when the bullets come zipping around as they did
when we were on the road.

The insurgents and Spaniards keep up continual volley firing all day and night. Neither side
knows as much about a gun as a baby. They fire into the air and expect the balls to light on
the heads of the enemy. When the Spaniards run up against us, I think they will find a different
game. We won't play horse with them nor shoot up into the air, but will get right into direct
aiming distance and make them dance.

DIGGING GRAVES IN CUBA--WALTER ZIMMER OF FIRST ILLINOIS VOLUNTEERS WRITES FROM SIBONEY.

Siboney, Cuba, Aug. 17.

Dear Sister and Brother: Received your kind and welcome letter last evening and was glad to
hear from you. We are expecting to get back to the States any day, as they are shipping the
army as fast as possible. I am now on a detail at the yellow fever hospital. This is tough
work, digging graves and planting the dead. The men are dying at the rate of about ten a day.
A lot of the boys in my company died of yellow jack. I am all right at present.

We had a lot of fun chasing Spaniards. Some of them got after a crowd of Cubans and killed
them. We scoured the woods and located the Spaniards and fired a few volleys at them, killing
and wounding a number of them.

Jimmy Edgar is dying. He has been out of his head for a week. I saw him last night and he did
not know me. Out of the regiment there are about 400 in the hospital. We have a little graveyard
on the hill they call the Chicago cemetery. It is only three weeks old and there are about
100 graves.

Santiago is a dirty place. All the sewers are on top of the ground. This is Siboney, the town
we burned about five weeks ago to keep out the fever. I have a few souvenirs I hope to take
back to the States with me--two Spanish gold pieces, one machete, a Krag gun, a set of prayer
beads, and a piece of shell that struck me in the hip. I was laid up only two days. The shell
struck a tree and bounded off, hitting me. The tree broke the force. If I ever get out of Cuba
I do not want to see it again, even on the map. By the time you get this I expect to be on
Long Island, New York. Hinton went back to the States a few days ago. Edgar was too weak to
go. About 500 convalescents went home, and there are about 1,000 of the boys here too weak
to go. It is pretty tough to see the boys dying here. Our detail has to dig graves. My back
is nearly broke from digging and using the pick. If you do not dig fast the major orders your
arrest and off to the guardhouse you go. YOUR BROTHER.

James Purcell, Company G, Eleventh Infantry, writes the following interesting letter:

Camp Ponce, Between Town of Ponce and Shipping Port, August 6.

Dear Ones and All: I hope you received my letter from Samono Bay and that you are all well.
I am fine, as well as ever I have been. We arrived here last Monday and landed on Tuesday.
We were on the water eleven days and it was a grand trip and all enjoyed it greatly, but if
would have been much better if we had good food. What we ate consisted of canned beef, hardtack,
canned beans and tomatoes with coffee twice a day.

Well, now to tell you something about this place. It is without exception the prettiest place
I ever saw. We have about five hundred Spanish prisoners here in this camp and leave to-night
by train to cross the mountains and clear the road for the main body of troops, which will
advance on San Juan. You will probably know the outcome long before this letter reaches you.
We are camped on the roadside. The thoroughfare is macadamized from one end of the island to
the other, and as fine a road as one ever saw. It would be a grand place to have a bicycle.
Our camp is always crowded with hungry, starving Cuban men, women and children, some of them
naked and the rest only partially clothed. They will do almost anything for our hardtack, for
some of them never had any flour, and when we purchase we have to pay two cents for a small
roll, but while we are in camp we make our own bread and they go crazy for some of it.

There is plenty of tobacco here and the way we get it is to give one hardtack for a cigar.
The men and women are all cigarmakers, and, as our commissary is not yet open, we have to make
native cigars. All the people here seem glad to have the Americans take the island.

Wine and rum costs two cents a drink and an American dollar is worth $1.80 in Spanish money.
Our regiment and the Nineteenth are the only regiments of regular infantry on the island. All
others are volunteers excepting one or two regiments of cavalry and artillery, so we are likely
to get the brunt of all the battles. We had a little scrimmage yesterday, but it did not amount
to much. Now I will try to tell you a little about the island before I run out of paper. Cocoanuts
grow in abundance here, with all other kinds of tropical fruit. As yet we have not been near
the banana or pineapple district. The roads are all shaded with trees, and if I could get at
a desk for a short time I would write a better letter. This one is only to let you know I am
alive and well and as soon as the affair is over I think I'll buy a farm here,--etc.

LETTERS FROM JOE BOHON.

Ponce, Porto Rico, Aug. 4, 1898.

I suppose you know by this time where we are. I have written several times to the folks and
different ones, but have received no mail for twenty days.

We landed at Guanica July 25 and were the first troops on the island. We had considerable music
from our gunboat escorts there. You could see them going over the hills in droves. We stayed
there three days, then Company H and one company from Massachusetts Regiment marched to Yauco.
We looked for trouble there but were disappointed. We stayed there three days, then started
to march for Ponce. It took us two days to come a distance of thirty-five miles. We were in
heavy marching order with an extra 100 rounds of ammunition. Its weight was between 80 and
100 pounds.

This is a town of 35,000; they have banks, electric lights, telephones and an ice plant. There
are some English-speaking people here. I was down town yesterday. The hotels and restaurants
are all run by French people. It's a wonderful sight how the natives respect us. They take
off their hats and say Viva Americana (long live America). If one of them can get hold of a
blue shirt or pants or a small flag they are the envy of every one of their people. Our company
have four with us since we landed. They wash our dishes, carry water and make themselves useful.

There are all kinds of reptiles and varmints. Hamilton and I have killed three centipedes in
our tent. The natives say their bite will kill, but our doctors say not; several of our boys
have been bitten; none died so far. A soldier of the Third Wisconsin shot and killed one of
the regulars. The wealthy class of people here dress like us; have fine carriages, but their
horses are all small and pace. They raise hogs and their cattle are Jerseys. They do all their
work with oxen and large two-wheeled carts. The oxen pull with their horns and you would wonder
at the load they pull. The poorer class of people are nothing better than slaves. From ten
to thirty will live in one small house. I have not seen a window glass or chimney on a house
since being on the island. They build their fires in small stoves and cook their grub in kettles.
They raise bananas, oranges, limes, the same as lemons, cocoanuts, pomegranates, mangoes, etc.
They also raise melons, tomatoes, cucumbers and such vegetables. Think of getting those things
fresh the year round.

They wear as few clothes as possible. You see children as old as four years without a stitch
of clothes on. I mean the poor, and none of the older wear shoes; their endurance is wonderful,
and they don't perspire like us. They all smoke either cigars or cigarettes. We see children
four years old smoking cigars. You can buy as good a cigar here for 1 cent in their money as
we can buy at home for 5 cents. One dollar in our money is equal to two dollars in theirs.
So we get our smoking pretty cheap. Fruits are sold accordingly. We are to turn our Springfield
guns in this morning and get the Krag-Jorgenson; they are much lighter and their bullets are
not near so heavy. Hope this will be of interest to you. Don't forget to send the Times as
we have not seen a paper since leaving Charleston. Regards to all.

In the course of an interesting letter written by James Burns of the Twenty-seventh battery,
Indiana volunteers, to his mother, and dated August 15, at Gruayama, Puerto Rico, he said that
the news of the cessation of hostilities was received by courier only a short time before the
battery expected to get actively into battle. Most of the boys, he said, were anxious to return
home. For himself, he expressed a desire to remain for the reason that the country there is
very rich, the climate healthful and the possibilities to make money in the future, through
American push and energy, the best in the world. Speaking of the daily routine of the battery
boys he said:

Every man cooks his own meals and we get plenty of good food, such as bacon, potatoes, beans,
onions, hard-tack, canned corn beef, canned roast beef, canned tomatoes and the like. The climate
is the finest I ever experienced. While the temperature is very high, still the strong trade
winds render it always agreeable, the hottest day being far more pleasant than at home. Water
is pure and plentiful. The country is cut up every quarter mile or so by limpid mountain streams
and the beach on this, the south side of the island, is as fine as any in the world. Palms
abound in profusion and the most beautiful flowers and ferns cluster and grow delightfully
everywhere. The cocoanut, mango, bread-fruit, banana, lemon, lime, sago, prickly pear, mangrove
and bay trees grow luxuriantly about our camp.

