As I took John's arm and walked into the enclosure in front of the stand, I must confess that
the first impression on my mind was this--"Never in my life have I seen so many well-dressed
people collected together before;" and when the Queen drove up the Course with her brilliant
suite of carriages and outriders, and the mob of gentlemen and ladies cheered her to the echo,
I was such a goose that I felt as if I could have cried. After a time I got a little more composed,
and looked about at the different toilettes that surrounded me. I own I saw nothing much neater
than my own; and I was pleased to find it so, as nothing gives one greater confidence in a
crowd than the consciousness of being well dressed. But what I delighted in more than all the
bonnets and gowns in the universe were those dear horses, with their little darlings of jockeys.
If there is one thing I like better than another, it is a thoroughbred horse. What a gentleman
he looks amongst the rest of his kind! How he walks down the Course, as if he knew his own
value--self-confident, but not vain--and goes swinging along in his breathing-gallop as easily
and as smoothly as if I was riding him myself, and he was proud of his burthen! When Colonist
won the Cup, I felt again as if I could have cried. It was a near race, and closely contested
the whole way from the distance in. I felt my blood creeping quite chill, and I could perfectly
understand then the infatuation men cherish about racing, and why they ruin their wives and
children at that pursuit. What a relief it was when the number was up, and I could be quite
satisfied that the dear bay horse had won. As for the little jockey that rode him, I could
and would have kissed him! Just then Cousin John came back to me, with his sunny, laughing
face, and I naturally asked him, "Had he won his money?" John never bets; but he replied, "I'm
just as pleased as if I'd won a fortune; only think, Frank Lovell has landed twelve hundred!"
"Well," I replied, "I am glad of it--which is very good of me, seeing that I don't know Mr.
Lovell." "Don't know Frank Lovell!" exclaimed John. "The greatest friend I have in the world."
(Men's friends always are the greatest in the world.) "I'll introduce him to you; there he
is--no he isn't. I saw him a moment ago." And forthwith John launched into a long biography
of his friend Frank Lovell--how that gentleman was the nicest fellow and the finest rider and
the best shot in the universe; how he knew more about racing than any man of his age, and had
been in more difficulties, and got out of them better, and robbed the public generally with
a more plausible air; how he sang a capital song, and was the pleasantest company, and had
more brains than the world gave him credit for (as indeed might easily be the case); how he
was very good-looking, and very agreeable, and met with great success (whatever that means)
in society; how Lady Scapegrace was avowedly in love with him; and he had thrown over pretty
Miss Pinnifer because he wouldn't leave the army, and six months afterwards was obliged to
sell his commission, when Outsider won the "Two Thousand;" together with various other details,
which lasted till it was time to have luncheon, and go back to Windsor to catch the four o'clock
train. Though evidently such a hero of John's, I confess I didn't like what I heard of Frank
Lovell at all.

CHAPTER II.

We've got such a sweet little house in Lowndes Street--to my mind the very best situation in
London. When I say we, of course I mean Aunt Deborah and myself. We live together, as I hope
we always shall do, as Aunt Deborah says, till "one of us is married." And notwithstanding
the difference of our ages we get on as comfortably as any two forlorn maidens can. Though
a perfect fairy palace within, our stronghold is guarded by no giant, griffin, dragon, or dwarf;
nothing more frightful than a policeman, whose measured tread may be heard at the midnight
hour pacing up and down beneath our windows. "It's a great comfort," says Aunt Deborah, "to
know that assistance is close at hand. I am a lone woman, Kate, and I confess to feeling nervous
when I lie awake." I quite agree with my aunt, though I'm not nervous, but I must say I like
the idea of being watched over during the hours of sleep; and there is something romantic in
hearing the regular tramp of the sentinel whilst one is curled up snug in bed. I don't much
think it always is the policeman--at least I know that one night when I got up to peep if it
was a constable, he was wrapped in a very loose cloak, such as is by no means the uniform of
the force, and was besides, unquestionably, smoking a cigar, which I am given to understand
is not permitted by the regulations when on duty. I watched the glowing light for at least
ten minutes, and when I went to bed again, I could not get to sleep for wondering who the amateur
policeman could be.

But the house is a perfect jewel of its kind. Such a pretty dining-room, such a lovely drawing-room,
opening into a conservatory, with a fountain and gold-fish, to say nothing of flowers (I am
passionately fond of flowers), and such a boudoir of my own, where nobody ever intrudes except
my special favourites--Cousin John, for instance, when he is not in disgrace--and which I have
fitted up and furnished quite to my own taste. There's the "Amazon" in gilt bronze, and a bas-relief
from the Elgin marbles--not coloured like those flaxen-haired abominations at Sydenham, but
pure and simple as the taste that created it; and an etching Landseer did for me himself of
my little Scotch terrier growling; and a veritable original sketch of Horace Vernet--in which
nothing is distinguishable save a phantom charger rearing straight up amongst clouds of smoke.
Then I've put up a stand for my riding-whips, and a picture of my own thoroughbred favourite
horse over the chimney-piece; altogether, Aunt Deborah describes the apartment exactly when
she says to me, as she does about once a week, "My dear, if you were a man, I should say your
room was fitted up in the most perfect taste; but as you happen to be a young lady, I won't
say what I think, because I know you won't agree with me;" and I certainly do not agree with
Aunt Deborah upon a great many subjects.

However, there's no situation like Lowndes Street. I'm not going to tell the number, nor at
which end of the street we live; for it's very disagreeable to have people riding by and stopping
to alter their stirrup-leathers, and squinting up at one's drawing-room windows where one sits
working in peace, and then cantering off and trotting by again, as if something had been forgotten.
No; if curiosity is so very anxious to know where I live, let it look in the Court Guide; for
my part, I say nothing, except that there are always flowers in the balcony, and there's no
great singularity about that. But there are two great advantages connected with a "residence
in Belgravia," which I wonder are not inserted in the advertisements of all houses to let in
that locality. In the first place, a lady may walk about all the forenoon quite alone, without
being hampered by a maid or hunted by a footman; and in the second, she is most conveniently
situated for a morning ride or walk in the Park; and those are about the two pleasantest things
one does in London.

Well, the same conversation takes place nearly every morning at breakfast between Aunt Deborah
and myself (we breakfast early, never after half-past nine, however late we may have been the
night before). Aunt Deborah begins,--

"My dear, I hope we shall have a quiet morning together; I've directed the servants to deny
me to all visitors; and if you'll get your work, I will proceed with my readings from excellent
Mrs. Hannah More."

Kate.--"Thank you, aunt; Hannah More amuses me very much"--(I confess that prim moralist does
make me laugh).

Aunt Deborah (reprovingly).--"Instructive, Kate, not amusing; certainly not ludicrous. If you'll
shut the door we'll begin."

Kate.--"Can't we put it off for an hour? I must get my ride, you know, aunt. What's the use
of horses if one don't ride?"

Aunt Deborah.--"Kate, you ride too much; I don't object to the afternoons with John Jones,
but these morning scampers are really quite uncalled for; they're spoiling your figure and
complexion; it's improper--more, it's unfeminine; but as you seem determined upon it, go and
get your ride, and come back a little sobered;" and Kate--that's me--disappears into the boudoir,
from which she emerges in about five minutes with the neatest habit and the nicest hat, and
her hair done in two such killing plaits--John Jones says I never look so well as when I've
got my hair dressed for riding.

I always go out for these morning excursions quite alone. Aunt Deborah fought for a long time,
and insisted on my taking the coachman; but he is an old family servant, and I soon knocked
him up completely. In the first place, the ride is always soft, and I hate going slow, so he
used to get a dreadful stitch in his side trying to keep up with me on one of the high-actioned
coach-horses; then he didn't see the fun of having two horses to clean when he got home instead
of one; so when he found he couldn't get another helper, we begged him off between us, and
I go out now unencumbered by that excellent and pursy old man. After all, I ought to be able
to take care of myself. I have ridden ever since I was five years old; and if habit is second
nature, as Aunt Deborah says, I'm sure my habit ought to be natural enough to me. I recollect
as well as if it was yesterday, when poor papa put me on a shaggy Shetland pony, and telling
me not to be frightened, gave it a thump, and started me off by myself. I wasn't the least
bit afraid, I know that. It was a new sensation, and delightful; round and round the field
we went, I shaking my reins with one hand, and holding on a great flapping straw hat with the
other; the pony grunting and squeaking, with his mane and tail floating on the breeze, and
papa standing in the middle, waving his hat and applauding with all his might. After that I
was qualified to ride anything; and by the time I was twelve, there wasn't a hunter in the
stables that I wouldn't get on at a moment's notice. I am ashamed to confess that I have even
caught the loose cart-horses in a field, and ridden them without saddle or bridle. I never
was beat but once, and that was at Uncle Horsingham's when I was about fifteen. He had bought
a mare at Tattersall's for his daughter to ride, and brought her down to Dangerfield, thinking
she would conduct herself like the rest of her species. How well I remember my governess's
face when she gave me leave to go to the stable with Sir Harry and look over the new purchase.
I was a great pet of Uncle Horsingham; and as Cousin Amelia was not much of an equestrian,
he proposed that I should get upon the chestnut mare first, and try her paces and temper before
his daughter mounted her. As we neared the stables out came one of the grooms with a sidesaddle
on his head, and the longest face I ever beheld.

"O Sir 'Arry," said he--I quote his exact words--"that new mare's a wicious warmint; afore
I was well into the stable, she ups and lets out at me just above the knee: I do believe as
my thigh's broke."

"Nonsense, man," said my uncle; "put the saddle on and bring her out." Presently the chestnut
mare appeared; and I saw at once that she was not in the best of humours. But I was young,
full of spirits, and fresh from lessons; so, fearing if one of the men should venture to mount
her she might show temper, and I should lose my ride, I made a sign to the head-groom to give
me a hand; and before my uncle had time to exclaim, "For goodness sake, Kate!" I was seated,
muslin dress and all, on the back of the chestnut mare. What she did I never could quite make
out; it seemed to me that she crouched as if she was going to lie down, and then bounded into
the air, with all four legs off the ground. I was as near gone as possible; but for the only
time in my life I caught hold of the pommel with my right hand, and that saved me. In another
instant she had broke from the groom's hold, and was careering along the approach like a mad
thing. If I had pulled at her the least she would have run away with me.

Luckily, the park was roomy, and the old trees far apart; so when we got upon the grass I knew
who would be mistress. I gave her a rousing good gallop, shook my reins and patted her, to
show her how confident I was, and brought her back to my uncle as quiet as a lamb. Unfortunately,
however, the mare had taken a dislike to certain stone pillars which supported the stable gates,
and nothing would induce her to pass them. Flushed with success, I borrowed my uncle's riding-whip
to punish her; and now began a battle in good earnest. She reared and plunged, and wheeled
round and round, and did all she knew to get rid of me; whilst I flogged and jerked, and screamed
at her (I didn't swear, because I didn't know how), and vowed in my wicked little heart I would
be killed rather than give in. During the tussle we got nearer and nearer to a certain large
pond about a hundred yards from the stable gates, at which the cattle used to water in the
quiet summer afternoons. I knew it wasn't very deep, for I had seen them standing in it often.
By the time we were close on the brink the whole household had turned out to see "Miss Kate
killed;" and just as I hit the mare a finishing cut over the ears, I caught a glimpse of my
governess in an attitude of combined shame, horror, and disgust that I shall never forget.
The next moment we were overhead in the pond, the mare having dashed blindly in, caught her
fore-feet in the bridle, and rolled completely over. What a ducking I got to be sure! But it
was nothing to the scolding I had to endure afterwards from all the females of the family,
including my governess; only Uncle Horsingham stuck up for me, and from that time till the
day of his death vowed he had "never known but one plucky fellow in the world, and that was
his little niece Kate."

No wonder I feel at home on Brilliant, who never did wrong in his life, who will eat out of
my hand, put his foot in my apron-pocket, follow me about like a dog, and is, I am firmly persuaded,
the very best horse in England. He is quite thoroughbred, though he has never been in training--and
is as beautiful as he is good. Bright bay, with such black legs, and such a silky mane and
tail! I know lots of ladies whose hair is coarser than Brilliant's. Fifteen hands three inches,
and Cousin John says well up to his weight--an honest fourteen stone. With the smallest nose,
and the leanest head, and the fullest dark eye, and the widest, reddest nostril--his expression
of countenance, when a little blown, is the most beautiful I ever beheld; and not a white mark
about him except a tiny star in the very middle of his forehead; I know it well, for I have
kissed it often and often. The picture over my chimney-piece does not half do him justice;
but then, to be sure, its pendant, painted by the same artist, and representing my other horse,
White Stockings, flatters that very plain and excellent animal most unblushingly.

Of all delights in the world give me my morning canter up the park on Brilliant. Away we go,
understanding each other perfectly; and I am quite sure that he enjoys as much as I do the
bright sunshine and the morning breeze and the gleaming Serpentine, with its solitary swan,
and its hungry ducks, and its amphibious dogs continually swimming for the inciting stick,
only rescued to produce fresh exertions; and the rosy children taking their morning walk; and,
above all, the liberty of London before two o'clock in the day, when the real London begins.
I pat Brilliant's smooth, hard neck, and he shakes his head, and strikes an imaginary butterfly
with one black fore-leg, and I draw my rein a thought tighter, and away we go, much to the
admiration of that good-looking man with moustachios who is leaning on his umbrella close to
the rails, and smoking the cigar of meditation as if the park was his own.

I often wondered who that man was. Morning after morning have I seen him at the same place,
always with an umbrella, and always with a cigar. I quite missed him on the Derby day, when
of course he was gone to Epsom (by-the-bye, why don't we go to the Derby just as much as to
Ascot?); and yet it was rather a relief, too, for I had got almost shy about passing him. It
seemed so absurd to see the man every day and never to speak; besides, I fancied, though of
course it could only be fancy, that he looked as if he was expecting me. At last I couldn't
help blushing, and I thought he saw it; for I'm sure he smiled, and then I was so provoked
with myself that I sent Brilliant up the ride at a pace nothing short of a racehorse could
have caught.

CHAPTER III.

I wonder whether any lady in England has a maid who, to use that domestic's own expression,
is capable of "giving satisfaction." If any lady does rejoice in such an Abigail, I shall be
too happy to "swap" with her, and give anything else I possess except Brilliant into the bargain.
Mine is the greatest goose that ever stood upon two legs, and how she can chatter as she does
with her mouth full of pins is to me a perfect miracle. Once or twice in the week I have to
endure a certain ordeal which, although a positive pleasure to some women, is to my disposition
intense martyrdom, termed dressing to go out; and I think I never hated it more than the night
of Lady Horsingham's ball. Lady Horsingham is my poor uncle's widow; and as Aunt Deborah is
extremely punctilious on all matters relating to family connections, we invariably attend these
solemnities with a gravity befitting the occasion.

Now, I may be singular in my ideas; but I confess that it does appear to me a strange way of
enjoying oneself in the dog-days, to make one's toilette at eleven p.m., for the purpose of
sitting in a carriage till twelve, and struggling on a staircase amongst a mob of one's fellow-creatures
till half-past. After fighting one's way literally step by step, and gaining a landing by assault,
one looks round and takes breath, and what does one see? Panting girls looking in vain for
the right partner, who is probably not ten yards from them, but wedged in between substantial
dowagers, whom he is cursing in his heart, but from whom there is no escape; or perhaps philosophically
and perfidiously making the best of his unavoidable situation, and flirting shamefully with
the one he likes next best to the imprisoned maiden on the staircase; or, the tables turned,
young fledglings pining madly for their respective enslavers, and picturing to themselves how
she may be even now whirling round to that pealing waltz in the arms of some former adorer
or delightfully new acquaintance, little heeding him who is languishing in his white neckcloth,
actually within speaking distance, but separated as effectually as if he were in another country.
By-the-bye, it's fatal when people begin to think of each other as hes and shes; the softest
proper name that ever was whispered is not half so dangerous as those demonstrative pronouns.
In one corner is a stout old gentleman, wedged against the wall, wiping the drops from his
bald head, and wondering what Jane and Julia can see in these gatherings to make them wild
about going to every ball for which they can get an invitation. Deluded father! both Jane and
Julia have the best of reasons in this very house. You grudge not to spend a broiling September
day in the pursuit of your game; each of your fair daughters, sir, flatters herself that she,
too, has winged her bird.

Swaying backwards and forwards in the mass, like some goodly merchantman at anchor, pitching
and rolling to a ground-swell, behold the chaperon fulfilling her destiny, and skilfully playing
that game which to her is the business of life. Flushed and hot in person, she is cool and
composed in mind. Practice makes perfect; and the chaperon is as much at home here as the stockbroker
on 'Change, or the betting-man in the ring, or the fisherman amidst the roar and turmoil of
the waves. With lynx eyes she notes how Lady Carmine's eldest girl is "carrying on" with young
Thriftless, and how Lord Looby's eyeglass is fixed on her own youngest daughter; yet for all
this she is not absent or preoccupied, but can whisper to stupid Lady Dulwich the very latest
intelligence of a marriage, or listen, all attention, to the freshest bit of scandal from Mrs.
General Gabbler. But perhaps by this time you have floated with the tide into the doorway,
and received from your hostess the cordial shake of the hand or formal bow which makes you
free of the place. So, with patience and perseverance you work your way at last into the dancing-room,
and you now see what people come here for--dancing, of course. Each performer has about eighteen
inches of standing room, and on that space must be enacted in hopeless pantomime the intricate
evolutions of the quadrille, or the rotatory struggles of the waltz. Sliding and smiling, and
edging and crushing, the conscientious dancers try to fulfil their duties, and much confusion
and begging of pardons are the natural results.

However, it's a rare place for love-making. What with the music and the crowd and the confusion,
the difficulty is more to make out what one's partner does say than to prevent his being overheard
by other people; but, I must confess, if anybody had anything very particular to say to me,
I had rather hear it in the quiet country by moonlight, or even coming home from Greenwich
by water--or anywhere, in short, rather than in the turmoil of a London ball. But that's all
nonsense; and I hope I have too much pride to allow any man to address me in such a strain.
Trust me for setting him down!

It's no wonder, then, that I was cross when I was dressing for Lady Horsingham's ball; and
that silly Gertrude (that's my maid's name, and what a name it is for a person in that class
of life!) put me more and more out of patience with her idiotic conversation, which she tries
to adapt to my tastes, and of which the following is a specimen:----

"Master John will be at her ladyship's ball, miss, I make no doubt;" brushing away the while
at my back hair, and pulling it unnecessarily hard; no maid ever yet had a "light hand."

No answer. What business is it of hers, and why should she call him Master John? Gertrude tries
again: "You look pale to-night, miss; you that generally has such a colour. I'm afraid you're
tired with your ride."

"Not a bit of it--only sleepy. Why, it's time one was in bed."

"Lor, miss, I shouldn't want to go to bed, not if I was going to a ball. But I think you like
'orse exercise best; and to be sure, your 'orse is a real beauty, Miss Kate."

The very name of Brilliant always puts me in good humour, so, of course, I can but answer,
"That he is, Gertrude, and as good as he's handsome;" on which my voluble handmaid goes off
again at score.

"That's what I say, miss, when I see him coming round to the door, with his long black tail
and his elegant shape and his thin legs." Thin legs!--I can't stand that; to hear my beautiful
Brilliant's great strong legs called thin, as if he were made of paper. I feel I am getting
savage again, so I cut Gertrude short, and bid her "finish my hair," and hasten my dressing,
for Aunt Deborah don't take long, and we shall be late for the ball. At the mention of the
word "ball," off goes Gertrude again.

"What a grand ball it'll be, miss, as all her ladyship's is; and I know there'll be no young
lady there as will be better dressed than my young lady, nor better looking neither; and I'm
sure, to see you and Master John stand up together, as you did last Christmas when we was all
at Dangerfield! and I says to the steward, 'Mr. Musty,' says I, 'a handsomer couple than them
two I never clapped eyes on. Master John, he looks so fresh, and so healthy and portly, as
becomes a gentleman.' And he says, 'No doubt,' says he; 'and Miss Kate, she steps away like
a real good one, with her merry eyes and her trim waist, as blooming,' says he, 'as a beanfield,
and as saucy as----'"

"There, that will do, Gertrude; now my pocket-handkerchief and some scent, and my gloves and
my fan. Good-night, Gertrude."

"Good-night, miss; I do humbly hope you'll enjoy your ball."

Enjoy my ball, indeed! How little does the girl know what I enjoy, and what I don't enjoy!
Lady Horsingham will be as stiff as the poker, and about as communicative. Cousin Amelia will
look at everything I've got on, and say the most disagreeable things she can think of, because
she never can forgive me for being born two years later than herself. I shall know very few
people, and those I do know I shall not like. I shall have a headache before I have been half
an hour in the room. If I dance I shall be hot, and if I don't dance I shall be bored. Enjoy
my ball, indeed! I'd much rather be going hay-making.

Up went the steps, bang went the door, and ere long we were safely consigned to the "string"
of carriages bound for the same destination as ourselves. After much "cutting-in," and shaving
of wheels, and lashing of coach-horses, with not a little blasphemy, "Miss Horsingham" and
"Miss Coventry" were announced in a stentorian voice, and we were struggling in a mass of silks
and satins, blonde and broadcloth, up the swarming staircase. Everything happened exactly as
I had predicted; Lady Horsingham accosted Aunt Deborah with the most affectionate cordiality,
and lent me two fingers of her left hand, to be returned without delay. Cousin Amelia looked
me well over from head to foot, and asked after my own health and Brilliant's with a supercilious
smile. How that girl hates me! And I honestly confess to returning the feeling with some cordiality.
As far as appearance goes, I think without vanity I may say I have the best of it, Cousin Amelia
being very short and pale, with a "turn-up" nose and long ringlets. Why does a little woman
with a turn-up nose always wear her hair in ringlets? Is it that she wishes to resemble a King
Charles's spaniel? And why are our sex so apt to cherish feelings of animosity towards those
who are younger and better-looking than themselves? While I ask myself these questions I was
suddenly accosted by a lady who had been some time in conversation with my chaperon, and from
whom, I saw by Aunt Deborah's countenance, she was anxious to make her escape. Poor old soul!
What could she do? A double rank of dowagers hemmed her in in front; on one side of her was
her unwelcome acquaintance and the banisters--on the other, myself and three demure young ladies
(sisters), who looked frightened and uncomfortable--whilst her rear was guarded by a tall cavalry
officer with enormous moustachios, heading an impervious column of dandies worse than himself.
Aunt Deborah was like a needle in a bottle of hay. Taking advantage of her position, the lady
before mentioned seized me by both hands, and vowed she should have known me anywhere by my
likeness to my poor mamma. "I must make your acquaintance, my dear Miss Coventry--your uncle,
Sir Harry, was one of my oldest friends. I see you so often in the park, and you ride the nicest
horse in London, a bay with a white star." Of course I bowed an affirmative, and shook my new
friend by the hand with a cordiality equal to her own. A conversation begun in so promising
a manner as by a reference to my favourite was sure to go on swimmingly; besides, we could
not have got away from each other if we would; and ere long I found Mrs. Lumley--for that was
the lady's name--a most amusing and satirical personage, with a variety of anecdotes about
all her friends and acquaintances, and a sort of flippant charm of manner that was quite irresistible.

Besides all this, she was doubtless a very pretty woman--less striking perhaps than winning.
At the first glance you hardly remarked her--at the second you observed she was very well dressed--at
the third it occurred to you all of a sudden that she was far better-looking than half the
regular red-and-white beauties of the season; and after five minutes' conversation all the
men were over head and ears in love with her. She was neither dark nor fair, neither pale nor
ruddy, neither short nor tall. I never could succeed in making out the colour of her eyes,
but she had wonderfully long thick eyelashes with a curl in them (I wish mine had been cut
when I was a baby), and a beautiful healthy-looking skin, and such good teeth. After all, I
think her great attraction was her nose. It had more expression in its straight, well-cut bridge
and little, sharp point than all the rest of her features put together. I believe it was her
nose that conquered everything, and that her small feet and pretty figure and white hands,
and dashing ways and piquante conversation had much less to answer for than one saucy little
feature. How she rattled on: "You don't know Lady Scapegrace, Miss Coventry, do you? There,
that bold-looking woman in yellow. Beautiful black hair, hasn't she?--false, every bit of it!
She'll bow to me to-night, because she sees me with your good aunt; there, I told you so! Since
she and Sir Guy are living together again she sets up for being respectable--such stories,
my dear! but I don't believe half of 'em. However, I've seen her with my own eyes do the oddest
things--at best, I'm afraid she's a shocking flirt! There's your cousin, Mr. Jones--you see
I know everybody. How black he looks--he don't like me--a great many people don't--but I return
good for evil--I like everybody--it's never worth while to be cross;" and as she said so she
smiled with such a sunny, merry expression that I liked her better and better.

Cousin John certainly did look very cross. "Who introduced you to that horrid woman, Kate?"
said he as soon as a fresh convulsion in the crowd had stranded us a few steps higher up, and
we were separated from Mrs. Lumley and her attractions.

"My aunt, sir," I replied demurely, telling a "white one" for the sake of teasing him. "Why?
Have you any objections?"

"Oh, of course, if my aunt did, it's all right," replied he. "I don't know a great deal of
her, and what I do know I don't much like. But, Kate, there's a friend of mine wishes to be
presented to you. You've often heard me mention Frank Lovell--well, there he is; do you see
him?--turning round now to speak to Lady Scapegrace."

Good heavens! it was the man I had seen in the park so often, if possible better-looking with
his hat off than I had thought him in his morning costume, with the eternal cigar in his mouth.
I have a sort of dim recollection of his making his bow to my aunt, who received him, as she
does all good-looking young men, with a patronizing smile, and a vision of John "doing the
polite," and laughing as he ceremoniously introduced "Captain Lovell" and "Miss Coventry,"
and something said about "the honour of the next waltz;" and although I am not easily discomposed,
I confess I felt a little shy and uncomfortable till I found myself hanging on Captain Lovell's
arm, and elbowing our way to a place amongst the dancers.

I must say he wasn't the least what I expected--not at all forward, and never alluded to our
previous meeting, or to Brilliant, till we went to have an ice in the tea-room, when Captain
Lovell began to enlarge upon the charm of those morning rides, and the fresh air, and the beautiful
scenery of Hyde Park; and though I never told him exactly, he managed to find out that I rode
every day at the same early hour, "even after a ball!" and that I was as likely to be there
to-morrow as any day in the week; and so we had another turn at "the Colombetta" waltz, and
he took me back to my aunt, half-inclined to be pleased with him, and more than half-inclined
to be angry with myself. I am afraid I couldn't help watching him as he loitered about amongst
the crowd, now deep in conversation with Lady Scapegrace, now laughing with my new friend,
Mrs. Lumley. He looked so like a gentleman, even amongst all the high-bred men there; and though
so handsome, he didn't appear the least conceited. I began to wonder whether all could be true
that I had heard of him, and to think that a man who liked such early walks could not possibly
be the roué and "good-for-nothing" they made him out. I was roused out of a brown study by
Cousin John's voice in my ear, "Now then, Kate, for our waltz. The room's a little clearer,
so we can go the 'pace' if you like." And away we went to "the Odalisque" faster than any other
couple in the room. Somehow it wasn't half such a pretty air as the Colombetta, and John, though
he has a very good ear, didn't seem to waltz quite so well as usual; perhaps I was getting
a little tired. I know I wasn't at all sorry when my aunt ordered the carriage; and I thought
the dawn never looked so beautiful as it did when we emerged from those hot, lighted rooms
into the pure, fragrant summer air. I confess I do love the dawn, even in London. I like to
see the "gates of morning" open with that clear, light-green tinge that art has never yet been
able to imitate; and if I could do as I liked, which none of us can, I should always be up
and dressed by sunrise.

As we drove down Grosvenor Place I saw Captain Lovell walking home, smoking a cigar. I think
he caught a glimpse of my face at the carriage-window, for I am almost sure he bowed, but I
shrunk back into the corner, and pretended to go to sleep; and when we arrived in Lowndes Street
I was not at all sorry to wish Aunt Deborah good-night, and go upstairs to bed.

CHAPTER IV.

"Now then, Kate, late as usual; my phaeton's at the door, and we've only an hour and five minutes
to do the twelve miles," said Cousin John's cheery voice as he accosted me on the following
morning, running upstairs to change my dress after my early ride. Yes, notwithstanding the
ball the night before, I was not going to disappoint Brilliant of his gallop; besides, these
things are all habit; if you once get accustomed to early hours nothing is so easy as to keep
to them. Why, even Captain Lovell was in the park as usual with his cigar--he seems regular
enough about that, at all events--and he took his hat off so gracefully when he spied me cantering
up the Ride that I hadn't the heart to pass without stopping just to say, "How d'ye do?" but
of course I didn't shake hands with him.

"Come, Kate, bustle, bustle," exclaimed that fidget John; and in less time than my lady-readers
would believe, I had put on my pink bonnet and my white dress, and was bowling down to Richmond
by the side of my cousin, behind a roan and a chestnut that stepped away in a style that it
did one good to see.

