Mr. Ackermann, to whom we are indebted for the naturalization of "Annuals", announces that
one of his plates in the forthcoming "FORGET ME NOT"--(4 inches by 3 in dimension) has cost
one hundred guineas! The subject is "the Ruined City," by Martin, engraved by Le Keux. Fine
engraving is thus almost as dear as building-ground at Brighton.

The KEEPSAKE will appear much earlier than last year. Sir Walter Scott has written three or
four articles, and two or three "noble lords" are among the contributors. Nothing can exceed
the beauty of the specimens of the illustrations.

The FRIENDSHIP'S OFFERING passes into the editorial hands of Mr. T. Pringle, of whose poetical
talents we have lately had some exquisite specimens.

The ANNIVERSARY.--Allan Cunningham has joined Mr. Sharp (of whose taste in "getting up" books,
our readers must be aware) in a splendid volume to be called "The Anniversary." Among the engravings
are Psyche, after Sir Thomas Lawrence; Young Cottagers, after Gainsborough; the Author of Waverley
in his Study, after W. Allen; a Monkey, &c. by Landseer. This is a new adventure, and we wish
its projectors many anniversaries.

The CHRISTMAS BOX is to contain "A Story," from the pen of Miss Edgworth. Mrs. Hofland, Miss
Mitford, and Mrs. Hemans, likewise, contribute their pleasing aid.

The PLEDGE OF FRIENDSHIP is to be altered to The Gem, to be edited by Mr. T. Hood, whose wit
and fancy will sparkle among the contributions; and who hopes that it may prove one of those
"hardy annuals," which are to become perennials; the writers are to be of "authorized popularity"--"the
plates not of the common dessert kind, but a welcome service"--the engravers "as true as steel"
to their originals--and the whole equally "mental" and "ornamental:" so the wight has begun
already.

The WINTER'S WREATH promises to bloom more vigorously than ever, and earlier too--in September.
Among the contributors are the names of Hemans, Opie, Mitford, Montgomery, Wiffen, Delta, &c.

The AMULET is to be edited, as last year, by Mr. Hall.

The BIJOU is printing with two-fold energy.

We read the other day that Schiller's "History of the German War," was originally published
in Damen Almanach--a Lady's Almanack! This is real azure. "Annuals" do not, however, progress
on the continent; for a new one, lately published contained but a single original contribution.
In America they have bloomed with some success, though not with the elegance and polish of
our own country. Here their effect on the Fine Arts has been very important, and they have
done much for light reading, every name of literary eminence, except those of Moore, Campbell,
and Rogers, having been enlisted in their ranks. We do not, however, remember Leigh Hunt, although
his pleasantries would relieve the plaintiveness of some of the poetical contributions. A few
Shandean articles would be very agreeable--something like the Housekeepers in the last "Friendships'
Offering."

Nothing is said of the "Literary Pocket Book;" but our old friend, "Time's Telescope," will
be mounted as usual.

We also take this opportunity to state that the "ARCANA OF SCIENCE AND ART, FOR 1829," will
appear towards the close of the present year; and, we are enabled to promise its patrons a
still greater modicum of novelty and interest than was even comprised in its very successful
forerunner.

       *       *       *       *       *

MARTYRDOM.

There is no truth more abundantly exemplified in the history of mankind, than that the blood
of martyrs, spilt in whatever cause, political or religious, is the best imaginable seed for
the growth of favour towards their persons, and, as far as conversion depends on feeling, of
conversion to their opinions. "Quoites mori emur toties nasciemur."--Edin. Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH LIBERTY.

       *       *       *       *       *

SENSUALITY.

How different is the night of Nature from that of man, and the repose of her scenes from the
misrule of his sensual haunts; what a contrast between the refreshing return of her morning,
and the feverish agonies of his day-dreams.--Cameleon Sketches.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FLIMSY AGE.

Poets sing of the "golden age," the "silver age," and the "iron age," but were they to celebrate
this, I think they should call it the flimsy age, for every thing seems made to suit a temporary
purpose, without any regard to the sound and substantial. From printed calico to printed books,
from Kean's acting to Nash's architecture, all is made to catch the eye, to gratify the appetite
for novelty, without regard to real and substantial excellence.--Blackwood.

       *       *       *       *       *

VILLAGE CHURCHES.

We find very few monasteries founded after the twelfth century; the great majority, which rose
through the kingdom "like exhalations," were founded between the eleventh and twelfth centuries;
and in all county histories and authentic records, we scarce find a parish church, with the
name of its resident rector recorded, before the twelfth century. The first notice of any village
church occurs in the Saxon Chronicle, after the death of the conqueror, A.D. 1087. They are
called, there, "upland churches." Gibson's note on the passage is, "unicuique ecclesiae rurali."
These rare rural churches, after the want of them was felt, and after the lords of manors built,
endowed, and presented to them, spread so rapidly, that in 1200 in almost every remote parish
there was an "upland church," if not a resident minister, as at this day.

The convents, however, still remained in their pristine magnificence, though declining in purity
of morals and in public estimation. In place of new foundations of this august description, the--

  "Village parson's modest mansion rose,"

gracefully shewing its unostentatious front, and, at length, humbly adorning almost all the
scattered villages of the land.--Bowles's History of Bremhill.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was pleasantly observed by a sentimental jockey, who lost by a considerable length the first
race he ever rode, "I'll never ride another race as long as I live. The riders are the most
selfish, narrow minded creatures on the face of the earth. They kept riding and galloping as
fast as they could, and never had once the kindness or civility to stop for me."--Penelope.

       *       *       *       *       *

IRELAND.

It has lately been proved by indisputable evidence, that the present condition of the peasantry
of Ireland is much superior, to that of the population of the same island some centuries ago,
when the number of people did not exceed one million. Spenser describes them as inhabiting
"sties rather than houses, which is the chiefest cause of the farmer's so beastly manner of
living and savage condition, lying and living together with his beast, in one house, in one
room, in one bed, that is clean straw, or rather a foul dunghill."

In 1712, Dobbs, a man particularly conversant with the general condition of Ireland, estimated
that its population had increased 200,000. He states that "the common people are very poorly
clothed, go barelegged half the year, and very rarely taste of that flesh meat with which we
so much abound, but are pinched in every article of life."

In 1762, Sir William Petty computed that the inhabitants of Ireland amounted to about one million
three hundred thousand. Their habitations, he says, "are lamentable wretched cabins, such as
themselves could make in three or four days, not worth five shillings the building, and filthy
and disgusting to a degree, which renders it necessary for us to refrain from quoting his description.
Out of the 200,000 houses of Ireland," says he, "160,000 are wretched cabins, without chimney,
window, or door shut, even worse than those of the savages of America."

       *       *       *       *       *

SELF KNOWLEDGE.

We often hear people call themselves fools. Now a man ought to know whether he is a fool or
not, and he would not say it if he did not believe it; and there is also a degree of wisdom
in the discovery that one has been a fool, for thereby it is intimated that the season of folly
is over. Whosoever therefore actually says that he was a fool formerly, virtually says that
he is not a fool now.--Penelope.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MAIDEN'S CHOICE.

  Genteel in personage,
  Conduct and equipage,
  Noble by heritage,
    Generous and free;
  Brave, not romantic,
  Learn'd, not pedantic,
  Frolic, not frantic,
    This must he be.

  Honour maintaining,
  Meanness disdaining.
  Still entertaining,
    Engaging and new:
  Neat, but not finical,
  Sage, but not cynical,
  Never tyrannical,
    But ever true.

Old MS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CUNNING.

       *       *       *       *       *

STORY-TELLING.

A friend of mine has one, and only one, good story, respecting a gun, which he contrives to
introduce upon all occasions, by the following simple, but ingenious device. Whether the company
in which he is placed be numerous or select, addicted to strong potations, or to long and surprising
narratives; whatever may happen to be the complexion of their character or conversation, let
but a convenient pause ensue, and my friend immediately hears, or pretends to hear, the report
of a gun. Every body listens, and recalls his late impressions, upon which "the story of a
gun" is naturally, and as if by a casual association, introduced thus--"By the by, speaking
of guns, that puts me in mind of a story about a gun;" and so the gun is fixed in regular style,
and the company condemned to smell powder for twenty minutes to come! To the telling of this
gun story, it is not, you see, at all necessary that there should be an actual explosion and
report; it is sufficient that there might have been something of the kind.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLEASURES OF TRAVELLING.

Dover quite full--horrible place! Shocking, the inns! Amphibious wretches, the population.
Ashore (from steam-packet) at four in the morning. Fires out at The Ship. No beds! Think of
it! Had to wait till a party got up--going off at six. Six came--changed their minds (lazy!)
wouldn't go! Woke the whole house with ringing the bells, however--took care they shouldn't
sleep. Filthy breakfast! Bad butter--vile chops-- eggs! I never got an egg properly boiled
in my life! Royal Society ought to give a premium. Set off, starved and shuddering--roads heavy--four
horses. Ruined with the expense. Man wanted to take half. Fat--looked greasy. Thought ruin
best. Got up to Pagliano's a petrifaction! Worthy creature, the cook! Tossed me up such a "Saumon,
Tartare"--"Vol au vent"--"Maccaroni"--all light. Coffee--liqueur--no wine for fear of fever--went
to bed quite thawed in body and mind; and walked round Leicester-square next morning like "a
giant refreshed!"--Blackwood.

       *       *       *       *       *

A woman's true dowry is virtue, modesty, and desires restrained; not that which is usually
so called.

       *       *       *       *       *

DOMESDAY.

Mr. Bowles in his History of Bremhill, makes a few observations suggested by the account in
Domesday Book, on the wages, and some of the prices of agricultural produce on the farms where
the villani and servi, literally slaves and villans, laboured. When we find two oxen sold for
seventeen shillings and four-pence, we must bear in mind that one Norman shilling was as much
in value as three of ours; when we find that thirty hens were sold for three farthings each,
we must bear in mind the same proportion. The price of a sheep was one shilling, that is three
of ours. Wheat was six shillings a-quarter; that would be, according to our scale, two shillings
and three-pence a-bushel. Now, at the time of this calculation, everything must have borne
a greater price, reckoning by money, than at the time of Domesday; for the prices of articles
now set down (from an authentic document of the accounts of the Duke of Cornwall, first published
from the original by Sir R.C. Hoare, in his History of Mere,) bear date somewhat more than
two hundred years afterwards, in the reign of Edward the First, 1299. But at that time, what
were the wages of the labourer? The ploughman's wages were about five shillings a-year, fifteen
shillings by the present scale; a maid for making "pottage" received a penny a week!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH BOOK.

STRIKING INCIDENT IN THE LIFE OF A MIDSHIPMAN.

I have read some theories, or rather hypotheses, of apparitions, in which the authors attempt
to account for the appearance of those unsubstantial shadows, resembling the forms of living
men, by circumstances connected with the physical laws of matter. But I am rather inclined
to hold, with another class of inquirers, that the origin of such marvels must be looked for
in the mind of the seers; although I do not go the length of their scepticism, and deny the
actual existence of the ghostly show, as a real and visible spectacle, before the eyes.

These observations will derive some illustration at least, if not entire confirmation, from
the following narrative, which is deemed to be authentic in the neighbourhood in which the
scene is laid; and the application of which the judicious reader will, no doubt, be able to
make for himself.

About the middle of the last war, the Polly, tender, commanded by lieutenant Watts, came swooping
up one evening to the small town of Auchinbreck, in Scotland, and, resolving to pounce, without
warning, upon her prey, as soon as she had anchored in the roads, sent ashore the press-gang
to pick up as many of the stout boat-builder lads as they could catch. The towns-people, however,
were not so unprepared as the captain of the tender imagined; some of those, indeed, who were
fit for sea, ran up into the hills, but by far the greater number collected about the corner
of a building-shed as you go on to the main street, and, when the signal of hostility was given,
by the capture of a man by the press-gang, they rushed down upon them in a body, every one
with his axe on his shoulder like a troop of Indians with their tomahawks. It had now become
so dark that the sailors had much to do to keep their footing upon the loose stones of the
beach, which was just at this time rendered a still more troublesome passage by the scattered
materials of a pier, then beginning to be built; and, besides, their number was so small compared
to the townspeople, that, after a few strokes of the cutlas, and as many oaths as would have
got a line-of-battle ship into action and out again, they were fain to retreat to their boat,
pursued by the boat-builders, young and old, like furies. A midshipman, sitting in the stern,
whose name was William Morrison, a fine lad of fifteen, observed the fate of the action with
feelings in which local and professional spirit struggled for the mastery. One moment he would
rub his hands with glee, and the next unsheath his dagger in anger, as he saw the axe of a
fellow-townsman descend on the half-guarded head of a brother sailor; but, when the combatants
came within oar's length of the boat, and the retreat began to resemble a flight, the esprit
de corps got the upper hand in the Auchinbrecken midshipman's feelings, and, unsheathing his
dagger, he jumped nimbly ashore and joined in the fray. At last the sailors got fairly into
their boat without a single man being either missing or killed, although the list of the wounded
included the whole party; and the landsmen, apparently pretty much in the same circumstances,
although unable, from their number and the darkness, to reckon as instantaneously the amount
of the loss or damage, after giving three cheers of triumph, retired in good order.

William Morrison, after discharging his duty so manfully, was permitted to go on shore the
same evening, to visit his friends; and, indeed, the captain could not have known before that
he belonged to the place, as he surely would not have confided to the lad so unpopular a task
as that of kidnapping his own relations and acquaintances. He was landed at the point of Scarlough,
to prevent the necessity of going through the streets, which might have been dangerous in the
excited state of the people's minds; and, stretching across the fields, and along the side
of the hill, he steered steadily on in the direction of his paternal home, which was about
a mile and a half from the Point, but only one mile from the town. The moon had now risen,
but was only visible in short glimpses through the clouds that were hurrying across the sky;
and the tall, strange shadows of the willows and yews that skirted the churchyard, appearing
and disappearing as he passed, probably by recalling the associations of his earlier years,
made William shrink, and almost tremble. His own shadow, however, was a more pleasing thing
to look at. The dress, which, grown familiar by usage, he would not have noticed elsewhere,
was here brilliantly contrasted in his recollection with the more clownish and common garb
of his boyhood--for he already reckoned himself a man; and the dagger, projecting smartly from
his belted side, gave, in his opinion, a finish quite melodramatic to his air. He drew out
the tiny blade from its sheath, and its sparkle in the moonlight seemed to be reflected in
his eyes as he gazed on it from hilt to point; but the expression of those eyes was changed
as they discovered that its polish in one place was dimmed by blood. This could easily be accounted
for by the affray on the beach--and at any other time and place it would have been thought
nothing of;--but at this moment, and on this spot, he was as much startled by the sight, as
if his conscience had accused him of a deliberate murder. The impressions his mind had received
while passing the churchyard, now returned upon him with added gloom; a kind of misgiving came
over him; and a thousand boding thoughts haunted him like spirits, and hanging, as it were,
on his heart, dragged it down farther and farther at every step. He bitterly regretted that
he had not remained in the boat, as he had at first resolved, a neutral spectator of the strife.
How did he know that his hand had not been raised against the life of his own brother? As far
as he could see or learn, indeed, no fatal accident had occurred; but there have been instances
of people walking cheerily off the field of battle, and dying of their wounds after all. And
yet it was not likely--it was hardly possible--that John could have been in the affray, his
indentures protecting him from the impress. These cogitations were speedily followed by others
of as gloomy a character; for the thoughts breed faster than we can perceive them, and each
multiplies after his kind. It was a year since he had heard from his friends, and five years
since he had seen them. Who could tell what changes had taken place in that time? Who could
tell whether poor John had even lived to be killed by the pressgang? His father, his mother,
and his sisters--were they dead, were they living, were they sick, or in health? His sister
had been always a delicate girl, one of those gentle and fragile flowers of mortality that
are sure not to live till the summer; perhaps consumption, with the deceitful beauty of his
smile, had already led his fair partner down the short dance of life.

Tormenting himself with such speculations, he arrived at his father's house. Here he was surprised,
bewildered, almost shocked, to observe a new and handsome farm-house in place of the old one.
On looking farther on, however, he did detect the ancient habitation of his family, in its
original site; but it seemed, from the distance where he stood, to be falling into ruins. His
whole race must either be dead or banished, and a new tribe of successors settled in their
place; or else uncle William must be deceased, and have left his father money enough to build
a new house. He walked up to the door, where he stood trembling for some minutes, without courage
to put his hand to the latch, and at last went round to the window, and, with a desperate effort,
looked in. How his heart bounded! His father was there, still a stout healthy man of middle
life, his hair hardly beginning to be grizzled, by the meddling finger of the old painter Time;
and his mother, as handsome as ever, and her face relieved by the smile either of habitual
happiness, or of some momentary cause of joyful excitation, from the Madonna cast which had
distinguished it in less prosperous days; and his sister, with only enough left of her former
delicacy of complexion to chasten the luxuriant freshness of health on the ripe cheeks of nineteen.
John, indeed, was not there; but a vacant chair stood by the table ready to receive him, and
another--a second chair, beside it, only nearer the fire--for whom?--for himself. His heart
told him that it was. Some one must have brought the tidings of his arrival; the family circle
were at that moment waiting to receive him; he could see his old letters lying on the table
before them, and recognised the identical red splash he had dropped, as if accidentally, on
the corner of one--the dispatch he had written after his first action--although he had taken
the trouble to go to the cock-pit to procure, for the occasion, this valorous token of danger
and glory. But John--it was so late for him to be from home!--and, as a new idea passed across
his mind, he turned his eyes upon the old house, which was distant about a hundred yards. It
was probable, he thought, nay, more than probable, that his father, when circumstances enabled
him to build a new house for himself, had given the old one to his eldest son; and John, doubtless,
was established there as the master of the family, and perhaps at this moment was waiting anxiously
for a message to require his presence on the joyful occasion of his brother's arrival. He did
not calculate very curiously time or ages, for his brother was only his senior by two years;
he felt that he was himself a man long ago, and thought that John by this time must be almost
an old man.

