On the evening prior to his departure he went on horseback to visit the tomb of his father.
On his way he called on the Princess Wistaria, and thence proceeded to the mountain where the
remains reposed. The tomb was placed among tall growing grass, under thick and gloomy foliage.
Genji advanced to the tomb, and, half kneeling down before it, and half sobbing, uttered many
words of remembrance and sorrow. Of course no reply came forth. The moon by this time was hidden
behind dark clouds, and the winds blew keen and nipping, when suddenly a shadowy phantom of
the dead stood before Genji's eyes.

    "How would his image look on me,
      Knew he the secret of the past;
    As yonder moon in clouded sky,
      Looks o'er the scene mysteriously."

He returned to his mansion late in the night.

Early in the morning he sent a letter to Ô Miôbu, the nurse of the Heir-apparent, in which
he said: "I at last leave the capital, to-day. I know not when I may come and see the Prince
again. On him my thoughts and anxieties are concentrated, above all else. Realize these feelings
in your own mind, and tell them to him." He also sent the following, fastened to a bough of
cherry flowers, already becoming thin:--

    "When shall I see these scenes again,
      And view the flowers of spring in bloom,
    Like rustic from his mountain home,
      A mere spectator shall I come?"

These were carefully read by Ô Miôbu to the Prince, and when he was asked what she should write
in answer, he said: "Write that I said that since I feel every longing to see him, when I do
not see him for a long time, how shall I feel when he goes away altogether?" Thereupon she
wrote an answer, in which she indefinitely stated that she had shown the letter to the Prince,
whose answer was simple, yet very affectionate, and so on, with the following:--

    "'Tis sad that fair blossoms so soon fade away,
      In the darkness of winter no flower remains,
    But let spring return with its sunshiny ray,
      Then once more the flowers we look on again."

Now, with regard to the recent disgrace of Genji, the public in general did not approve of
the severity which the Court had shown to him. Moreover, he had been constantly with the Emperor,
his father, since the age of seven, and his requests had been always cheerfully listened to
by the latter; hence there were very many, especially among public servants of the ordinary
class, who were much indebted to him. However, none of them now came to pay their respects
to him. It seems that in a world of intrigue none dares do what is right for fear of risking
his own interests. Such being the state of things, Genji, during the whole day, was unoccupied,
and the time was entirely spent with Violet. Then, at his usual late hour in the evening, he,
in a travelling dress of incognito, at length left the capital, where he had passed five-and-twenty
years of his life.

His attendants, Koremitz and Yoshikiyo being among them, were seven or eight in number. He
took with him but little luggage. All ostentatious robes, all unnecessary articles of luxury
were dispensed with. Among things taken, was a box containing the works of Hak-rak-ten (a famous
Chinese poet), with other books, and besides these a kin-koto for his amusement. They embarked
in a boat and sailed down the river. Early the next morning they arrived at the sea-coast of
Naniwa. They noticed the Ôye Palace standing lonely amidst the group of pine trees. The sight
of this palace gave a thrill of sadness to Genji, who was now leaving, and not returning, home.
He saw the waves rolling on the coast and again sweep back. He hummed, as he saw them:--

    "The waves roll back, but unlike me,
      They come again."

From Naniwa they continued their voyage, sailing in the bay. As they proceeded they looked
back on the scenes they had left. They saw all the mountains veiled in haze, growing more and
more distant, while the rowers gently pulled against the rippling waves. It seemed to them
as if they were really going "three thousand miles' distance."[107]

    "Our home is lost in the mist of the mountain,
      Let us gaze on the sky which is ever the same."

The day was long and the wind was fair, so they soon arrived at the coast of Suma.[108] The
place was near the spot where the exiled Yukihira had lived, and had watched the beautiful
smoke rising from the salt ovens. There was a thatched house in which the party temporarily
took up their residence. It was a very different home from what they had been used to, and
it might have appeared even novel, had the circumstances of their coming there been different.
The authorities of the neighborhood were sent for, and a lodge was built under the direction
of Yoshikiyo, in accordance with Genji's wishes. The work was hurried on, and the building
was soon completed. In the garden, several trees, cherries and others, were planted, and water
was also conducted into it. Here Genji soon took up his abode. The Governor of the province,
who had been at Court, secretly paid attention to the Prince, with as much respect as was possible.

For some time Genji did not feel settled in his new residence. When he had become in some degree
accustomed to it, the season of continuous rain had arrived (May); his thoughts more than ever
reverted to the old capital.

The thoughtful expression of Violet's face, the childish affection of the Heir-apparent, and
the innocent playfulness of his little son, became the objects of his reveries and anxiety,
nor did he forget his old companions and acquaintances. He, therefore, sent a special messenger
to the capital bearing his letters, so that speedy answers might be returned from every quarter.
He also sent a messenger to Ise to make inquiry after the lady, who also sent one to him in return.

Now the young daughter of Udaijin had been remaining repentingly in the mansion of her father
since the events of the stormy evening. Her father felt much for her, and interceded with the
Empress-mother in her behalf, and also with her son, that is, the Emperor, thus getting permission
to introduce her once more into Court, an event which took place in the month of July.

To return to Suma. The rainy season had passed, and autumn arrived. The sea was at some distance
from the residence of Genji, but the dash of its waves sounded close to their ears as the winds
passed by, of which Yukihira sang,

    "The autumn wind which passes the barrier of Suma."

The autumn winds are, it seems, in such a place as this, far more plaintive than elsewhere.

It happened one evening that when all the attendants were fast asleep Genji was awake and alone.
He raised his head and rested his arms on his pillow and listened to the sound of the waves
which reached his ear from a distance. They seemed nearer than ever, as though they were coming
to flood his pillows. He drew his koto towards him and struck a melancholy air, as he hummed
a verse of a poem in a low tone. With this every one awoke and responded with a sigh.

Such was a common occurrence in the evening, and Genji always felt saddened whenever he came
to think that all his attendants had accompanied him, having left their families and homes
simply for his sake. In the daytime, however, there were changes. He would then enjoy pleasant
conversations. He also joined several papers into long rolls on which he might practise penmanship.
He spent a good deal of time in drawing and sketching. He remembered how Yoshikiyo, on one
occasion in Mount Kurama, had described the beautiful scenery of the place on which he was
now gazing. He sketched every beautiful landscape of the neighborhood, and collected them in
albums, thinking how nice it would be if he could send for Tsunenori, a renowned contemporary
artist, and get him to paint the sketches which he had made.

Out of all the attendants of Genji there were four or five who had been more especially his
favorites, and who had constantly attended on him. One evening they were all sitting together
in a corridor which commanded a full view of the sea. They perceived the island of Awaji lying
in the distance, as if it were floating on the horizon, and also several boats with sailors,
singing as they rowed to the shore over the calm surface of the water, like waterfowl in their
native element. Over their heads flocks of wild geese rustled on their way homeward with their
plaintive cry, which made the thoughts of the spectators revert to their homes. Genji hummed
this verse:--

    "Those wandering birds above us flying,
      Do they our far-off friends resemble.
    With their voice of plaintive crying
      Make us full of thoughtful sighing."

Yoshikiyo took up the idea and replied:--

    "Though these birds no friends of ours
      Are, and we to them are nought,
    Yet their voice in these still hours
      Bring those old friends to our thought."

Then Koremitz continued:--

    "Before to-day I always thought
      They flew on pleasure's wing alone,
    But now their fate to me is fraught
      With some resemblance to our own."

Ukon-no-Jiô added:--

    "Though we, like them, have left our home
      To wander forth, yet still for me
    There's joy to think where'er I roam
      My faithful friends are still with me."

Ukon-no-Jiô was the brother of Ki-no-Kami. His father, Iyo-no-Kami, had now been promoted to
be Hitachi-no-Kami (Governor of Hitachi), and had gone down to that province, but Ukon-no-Jiô
did not join his father, who would have gladly taken him, and faithfully followed Genji.

This evening happened to be the fifteenth of August, on which day a pleasant reunion is generally
held at the Imperial Palace. Genji looked at the silvery pale sky, and as he did so the affectionate
face of the Emperor, his brother, whose expression strikingly resembled their father's, presented
itself to his mind. After a deep and long sigh, he returned to his couch, humming as he went:--

    "Here is still a robe
      His Majesty gave to me."

It should be here noticed that he had been presented by the Emperor on a certain occasion with
a robe, and this robe he had never parted with, even in his exile.

About this time Daini (the senior Secretary of the Lord-Lieutenant of Kiûsiû) returned to the
capital with his family, having completed his official term. His daughter had been a virgin
dancer, and was known to Genji. They preferred to travel by water, and slowly sailed up along
the beautiful coast. When they arrived at Suma, the distant sound of a kin[109] was heard,
mingled with the sea-coast wind, and they were told that Genji was there in exile. Daini therefore
sent his son Chikzen-no-Kami to the Prince with these words: "Coming back from a distant quarter
I expected as soon as I should arrive in the capital to have had the pleasure of visiting you
and listening to your pleasant voice, and talking of events which have taken place there, but
little did I think that you had taken up your residence in this part of the country. How greatly
do I sympathize with you! I ought to land and see you at once, but there are too many people
in the same boat, therefore I think it better to avoid the slightest grounds which may cause
them to talk. However, possibly I shall pay you a visit soon."

