Weeks and months had elapsed, and the son of Kiri-Tsubo was again at the Palace. In the spring
of the following year the first Prince was proclaimed heir-apparent to the throne. Had the
Emperor consulted his private feelings, he would have substituted the younger Prince for the
elder one. But this was not possible, and, especially for this reason:--There was no influential
party to support him, and, moreover, public opinion would also have been strongly opposed to
such a measure, which, if effected by arbitrary power, would have become a source of danger.
The Emperor, therefore, betrayed no such desire, and repressed all outward appearance of it.
And now the public expressed its satisfaction at the self-restraint of the Emperor, and the
mother of the first Prince felt at ease.

In this year, the mother of Kiri-Tsubo departed this life. She may not improbably have longed
to follow her daughter at an earlier period; and the only regret to which she gave utterance,
was that she was forced to leave her grandson, whom she had so tenderly loved.

From this time the young Prince took up his residence in the Imperial palace; and next year,
at the age of seven, he began to learn to read and write under the personal superintendence
of the Emperor. He now began to take him into the private apartments, among others, of the
Koki-den, saying, "The mother is gone! now at least, let the child be received with better
feeling." And if even stony-hearted warriors, or bitter enemies, if any such there were, smiled
when they saw the boy, the mother of the heir-apparent, too, could not entirely exclude him
from her sympathies. This lady had two daughters, and they found in their half-brother a pleasant
playmate. Every one was pleased to greet him, and there was already a winning coquetry in his
manners, which amused people, and made them like to play with him. We need not allude to his
studies in detail, but on musical instruments, such as the flute and the koto,[16] he also
showed great proficiency.

About this time there arrived an embassy from Corea, and among them was an excellent physiognomist.
When the Emperor heard of this, he wished to have the Prince examined by him. It was, however,
contrary to the warnings of the Emperor Wuda, to call in foreigners to the Palace. The Prince
was, therefore, disguised as the son of one Udaiben, his instructor, with whom he was sent
to the Kôro-Kwan, where foreign embassies are entertained.

When the physiognomist saw him, he was amazed, and, turning his own head from side to side,
seemed at first to be unable to comprehend the lines of his features, and then said, "His physiognomy
argues that he might ascend to the highest position in the State, but, in that case, his reign
will be disturbed, and many misfortunes will ensue. If, however, his position should only be
that of a great personage in the country, his fortune may be different."

This Udaiben was a clever scholar. He had with the Corean pleasant conversations, and they
also interchanged with one another some Chinese poems, in one of which the Corean said what
great pleasure it had given him to have seen before his departure, which was now imminent,
a youth of such remarkable promise. The Coreans made some valuable presents to the Prince,
who had also composed a few lines, and to them, too, many costly gifts were offered from the
Imperial treasures.

In spite of all the precautions which were taken to keep all this rigidly secret, it did, somehow
or other, become known to others, and among those to the Udaijin, who, not unnaturally, viewed
it with suspicion, and began to entertain doubts of the Emperor's intentions. The latter, however,
acted with great prudence. It must be remembered that, as yet, he had not even created the
boy a Royal Prince. He now sent for a native physiognomist, who approved of his delay in doing
so, and whose observations to this effect, the Emperor did not receive unfavorably. He wisely
thought to be a Royal Prince, without having any influential support on the mother's side,
would be of no real advantage to his son. Moreover, his own tenure of power seemed precarious,
and he, therefore, thought it better for his own dynasty, as well as for the Prince, to keep
him in a private station, and to constitute him an outside supporter of the Royal cause.

And now he took more and more pains with his education in different branches of learning; and
the more the boy studied, the more talent did he evince--talent almost too great for one destined
to remain in a private station. Nevertheless, as we have said, suspicions would have been aroused
had Royal rank been conferred upon him, and the astrologists, whom also the Emperor consulted,
having expressed their disapproval of such a measure, the Emperor finally made up his mind
to create a new family. To this family he assigned the name of Gen, and he made the young Prince
the founder of it.[17]

Some time had now elapsed since the death of the Emperor's favorite, but he was still often
haunted by her image. Ladies were introduced into his presence, in order, if possible, to divert
his attention, but without success.

There was, however, living at this time a young Princess, the fourth child of a late Emperor.
She had great promise of beauty, and was guarded with jealous care by her mother, the Empress-Dowager.
The Naishi-no-Ske, who had been at the Court from the time of the said Emperor, was intimately
acquainted with the Empress and familiar with the Princess, her daughter, from her very childhood.
This person now recommended the Emperor to see the Princess, because her features closely resembled
those of Kiri-Tsubo.

"I have now fulfilled," she said, "the duties of my office under three reigns, and, as yet,
I have seen but one person who resembles the departed. The daughter of the Empress-Dowager
does resemble her, and she is singularly beautiful."

"There may be some truth in this," thought the Emperor, and he began to regard her with awakening
interest.

This was related to the Empress-Dowager. She, however, gave no encouragement whatever to the
idea, "How terrible!" she said. "Do we not remember the cruel harshness of the mother of the
Heir-apparent, which hastened the fate of Kiri-Tsubo!"

While thus discountenancing any intimacy between her daughter and the Emperor, she too died,
and the princess was left parentless. The Emperor acted with great kindness, and intimated
his wish to regard her as his own daughter. In consequence of this her guardian, and her brother,
Prince Hiôb-Kiô, considering that life at Court would be better for her and more attractive
for her than the quiet of her own home, obtained for her an introduction there.

She was styled the Princess Fuji-Tsubo (of the Chamber of Wistaria), from the name of the chamber
which was assigned to her.

There was, indeed, both in features and manners a strange resemblance between her and Kiri-Tsubo.
The rivals of the latter constantly caused pain both to herself and to the Emperor; but the
illustrious birth of the Princess prevented any one from ever daring to humiliate her, and
she uniformly maintained the dignity of her position. And to her alas! the Emperor's thoughts
were now gradually drawn, though he could not yet be said to have forgotten Kiri-Tsubo.

The young Prince, whom we now style Genji (the Gen), was still with the Emperor, and passed
his time pleasantly enough in visiting the various apartments where the inmates of the palace
resided. He found the companionship of all of them sufficiently agreeable; but beside the many
who were now of maturer years, there was one who was still in the bloom of her youthful beauty,
and who more particularly caught his fancy, the Princess Wistaria. He had no recollection of
his mother, but he had been told by Naishi-no-Ske that this lady was exceedingly like her;
and for this reason he often yearned to see her and to be with her.

The Emperor showed equal affection to both of them, and he sometimes told her that he hoped
she would not treat the boy with coldness or think him forward. He said that his affection
for the one made him feel the same for the other too, and that the mutual resemblance of her
own and of his mother's face easily accounted for Genji's partiality to her. And thus as a
result of this generous feeling on the part of the Emperor, a warmer tinge was gradually imparted
both to the boyish humor and to the awakening sentiment of the young Prince.

The mother of the Heir-apparent was not unnaturally averse to the Princess, and this revived
her old antipathy to Genji also. The beauty of her son, the Heir-apparent, though remarkable,
could not be compared to his, and so bright and radiant was his face that Genji was called
by the public Hikal-Genji-no-Kimi (the shining Prince Gen).

When he attained the age of twelve the ceremony of Gembuk[18] (or crowning) took place. This
was also performed with all possible magnificence. Various fêtes, which were to take place
in public, were arranged by special order by responsible officers of the Household. The Royal
chair was placed in the Eastern wing of the Seiriô-Den, where the Emperor dwells, and in front
of it were the seats of the hero of the ceremony and of the Sadaijin, who was to crown him
and to regulate the ceremonial.

About ten o'clock in the forenoon Genji appeared on the scene. The boyish style of his hair
and dress excellently became his features; and it almost seemed matter for regret that it should
be altered. The Okura-Kiô-Kurahito, whose office it was to rearrange the hair of Genji, faltered
as he did so. As to the Emperor, a sudden thought stole into his mind. "Ah! could his mother
but have lived to have seen him now!" This thought, however, he at once suppressed. After he
had been crowned the Prince withdrew to a dressing-room, where he attired himself in the full
robes of manhood. Then descending to the Court-yard he performed a measured dance in grateful
acknowledgment. This he did with so much grace and skill that all present were filled with
admiration; and his beauty, which some feared might be lessened, seemed only more remarkable
from the change. And the Emperor, who had before tried to resist them, now found old memories
irresistible.

Sadaijin had by his wife, who was a Royal Princess, an only daughter. The Heir-apparent had
taken some notice of her, but her father did not encourage him. He had, on the other hand,
some idea of Genji, and had sounded the Emperor on the subject. He regarded the idea with favor,
and especially on the ground that such a union would be of advantage to Genji, who had not
yet any influential supporters.

Now all the Court and the distinguished visitors were assembled in the palace, where a great
festival was held; Genji occupied a seat next to that of the Royal Princess. During the entertainment
Sadaijin whispered something several times into his ear, but he was too young and diffident
to make any answer.

Sadaijin was now summoned before the daïs of the Emperor, and, according to custom, an Imperial
gift, a white Ô-Uchiki (grand robe), and a suit of silk vestments were presented to him by
a lady. Then proffering his own wine-cup, the Emperor addressed him thus:--

    "In the first hair-knot[19] of youth,
    Let love that lasts for age be bound!"

This evidently implied an idea of matrimony. Sadaijin feigned surprise and responded:--

    "Aye! if the purple[20] of the cord,
    I bound so anxiously, endure!"

He then descended into the Court-yard, and gave expression to his thanks in the same manner
in which Genji had previously done. A horse from the Imperial stables and a falcon from the
Kurand-Dokoro[21] were on view in the yard, and were now presented to him. The princes and
nobles were all gathered together in front of the grand staircase, and appropriate gifts were
also presented to each one of them. Among the crowd baskets and trays of fruits and delicacies
were distributed by the Emperor's order, under the direction of Udaiben; and more rice-cakes
and other things were given away now than at the Gembuk of the Heir-apparent.

In the evening the young Prince went to the mansion of the Sadaijin, where the espousal with
the young daughter of the latter was celebrated with much splendor. The youthfulness of the
beautiful boy was well pleasing to Sadaijin; but the bride, who was some years older than he
was, and who considered the disparity in their age to be unsuitable, blushed when she thought
of it.

Not only was this Sadaijin himself a distinguished personage in the State, but his wife was
also the sister of the Emperor by the same mother, the late Empress; and her rank therefore
was unequivocal. When to this we add the union of their daughter with Genji, it was easy to
understand that the influence of Udaijin, the grandfather of the Heir-apparent, and who therefore
seemed likely to attain great power, was not after all of very much moment.

Sadaijin had several children. One of them, who was the issue of his Royal wife, was the Kurand
Shiôshiô.

Udaijin was not, for political reasons, on good terms with this family; but nevertheless he
did not wish to estrange the youthful Kurand. On the contrary, he endeavored to establish friendly
relations with him, as was indeed desirable, and he went so far as to introduce him to his
fourth daughter, the younger sister of the Koki-Den.

Genji still resided in the palace, where his society was a source of much pleasure to the Emperor,
and he did not take up his abode in a private house. Indeed, his bride, Lady Aoi (Lady Hollyhock),
though her position insured her every attention from others, had few charms for him, and the
Princess Wistaria much more frequently occupied his thoughts. "How pleasant her society, and
how few like her!" he was always thinking; and a hidden bitterness blended with his constant
reveries.

The years rolled on, and Genji being now older was no longer allowed to continue his visits
to the private rooms of the Princess as before. But the pleasure of overhearing her sweet voice,
as its strains flowed occasionally through the curtained casement, and blended with the music
of the flute and koto, made him still glad to reside in the Palace. Under these circumstances
he seldom visited the home of his bride, sometimes only for a day or two after an absence of
five or six at Court.

His father-in-law, however, did not attach much importance to this, on account of his youth;
and whenever they did receive a visit from him, pleasant companions were invited to meet him,
and various games likely to suit his taste were provided for his entertainment.

In the Palace, Shigeisa, his late mother's quarters, was allotted to him, and those who had
waited on her waited on him. The private house, where his grandmother had resided, was beautifully
repaired for him by the Shuri Takmi--the Imperial Repairing Committee--in obedience to the
wishes of the Emperor. In addition to the original loveliness of the landscape and the noble
forest ranges, the basin of the lake was now enlarged, and similar improvements were effected
throughout with the greatest pains. "Oh, how delightful would it not be to be in a place like
that which such an one as one might choose!" thought Genji within himself.

We may here also note that the name Hikal Genji is said to have been originated by the Corean
who examined his physiognomy.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 2: The beautiful tree, called Kiri, has been named Paulownia Imperialis, by botanists.]

[Footnote 3: Official titles held by Court ladies.]

[Footnote 4: The name of a Court office.]

[Footnote 5: A celebrated and beautiful favorite of an Emperor of the Thang dynasty in China,
whose administration was disturbed by a rebellion, said to have been caused by the neglect
of his duties for her sake.]

[Footnote 6: A Niogo who resided in a part of the Imperial palace called "Koki-den."]

[Footnote 7: The Hakamagi is the investiture of boys with trousers, when they pass from childhood
to boyhood. In ordinary cases, this is done when about five years old, but in the Royal Family,
it usually takes place earlier.]

[Footnote 8: A carriage drawn by hands. Its use in the Court-yard of the Palace was only allowed
to persons of distinction.]

[Footnote 9: Cremation was very common in these days.]

[Footnote 10: A Court lady, whose name was Yugei, holding an office called "Miôbu."]

[Footnote 11: Miyagi is the name of a field which is famous for the Hagi or Lespedeza, a small
and pretty shrub, which blooms in the Autumn. In poetry it is associated with deer, and a male
and female deer are often compared to a lover and his love, and their young to their children.]

[Footnote 12: In Japan there is a great number of "mushi" or insects, which sing in herbage
grass, especially in the evenings of Autumn. They are constantly alluded to in poetry.]

[Footnote 13: In Japanese poetry, persons connected with the Court, are spoken of as "the people
above the clouds."]

[Footnote 14: A famous Chinese poem, by Hak-rak-ten. The heroine of the poem was Yô-ki-hi,
to whom we have made reference before. The story is, that after death she became a fairy, and
the Emperor sent a magician to find her. The works of the poet Peh-lo-tien, as it is pronounced
by modern Chinese, were the only poems in vogue at that time. Hence, perhaps, the reason of
its being frequently quoted.]

[Footnote 15: There were two divisions of the Imperial guard, right and left.]

[Footnote 16: The general name for a species of musical instrument resembling the zither, but
longer.]

[Footnote 17: In these days Imperial Princes were often created founders of new families, and
with some given name, the Gen being one most frequently used. These Princes had no longer a
claim to the throne.]

[Footnote 18: The ceremony of placing a crown or coronet upon the head of a boy. This was an
ancient custom observed by the upper and middle classes both in Japan and China, to mark the
transition from boyhood to youth.]

[Footnote 19: Before the crown was placed upon the head at the Gembuk, the hair was gathered
up in a conical form from all sides of the head, and then fastened securely in that form with
a knot of silken cords of which the color was always purple.]

[Footnote 20: The color of purple typifies, and is emblematical of, love.]

[Footnote 21: A body of men who resembled "Gentlemen-at-arms," and a part of whose duty it
was to attend to the falcons.]

CHAPTER II

THE BROOM-LIKE TREE

Hikal Genji--the name is singularly well known, and is the subject of innumerable remarks and
censures. Indeed, he had many intrigues in his lifetime, and most of them are vividly preserved
in our memories. He had always striven to keep all these intrigues in the utmost secrecy, and
had to appear constantly virtuous. This caution was observed to such an extent that he scarcely
accomplished anything really romantic, a fact which Katano-no-Shiôshiô[22] would have ridiculed.

Even with such jealous watchfulness, secrets easily transpire from one to another; so loquacious
is man! Moreover, he had unfortunately from nature a disposition of not appreciating anything
within easy reach, but of directing his thought in undesirable quarters, hence sundry improprieties
in his career.

Now, it was the season of continuous rain (namely, the month of May), and the Court was keeping
a strict Monoimi.[23] Genji, who had now been made a Chiûjiô,[24] and who was still continuing
his residence in the Imperial Palace, was also confined to his apartments for a considerable
length of time. His father-in-law naturally felt for him, and his sons were sent to bear him
company. Among these, Kurand Shiôshiô, who was now elevated to the post of Tô-no-Chiûjiô, proved
to be the most intimate and interesting companion. He was married to the fourth daughter of
the Udaijin, but being a man of lively disposition, he, too, like Genji, did not often resort
to the mansion of the bride. When Genji went to the Sadaijin's he was always his favorite associate;
they were together in their studies and in their sports, and accompanied each other everywhere.
And so all stiffness and formality were dispensed with, and they did not scruple to reveal
their secrets to each other.

It was on an evening in the above-mentioned season. Rain was falling drearily. The inhabitants
of the Palace had almost all retired, and the apartment of Genji was more than usually still.
He was engaged in reading near a lamp, but at length mechanically put his book aside, and began
to take out some letters and writings from a bureau which stood on one side of the room. Tô-no-Chiûjiô
happened to be present, and Genji soon gathered from his countenance that he was anxious to
look over them.

"Yes," said Genji; "some you may see, but there may be others!"

"Those others," retorted Tô-no-Chiûjiô, "are precisely those which I wish to see; ordinary
ones, even your humble servant may have received. I only long to look upon those which may
have been written by fair hands, when the tender writer had something to complain of, or when
in twilight hour she was outpouring all her yearning!"

Being so pressed, Genji allowed his brother-in-law to see them all. It is, however, highly
probable that any very sacred letters would not have been loosely deposited in an ordinary
bureau; and these would therefore seem, after all, to have been of second-rate importance.

"What a variety," said Tô-no-Chiûjiô, as he turned them over, and he asked several questions
guessingly about this or that. About some he guessed correctly, about others he was puzzled
and suspicious.[25] Genji smiled and spoke little, only making some obscure remark, and continuing
as he took the letters: "but you, surely, must have collected many. Will not you show me some?
And then my bureau also may open more easily."

"You do not suppose that I have any worth reading, do you?" replied Tô-no-Chiûjiô. "I have
only just now discovered," continued he, "how difficult it is to meet with a fair creature,
of whom one can say, 'This is, indeed, the one; here is, at last, perfection.' There are, indeed,
many who fascinate; many who are ready with their pens, and who, when occasion may require,
are quick at repartee. But how often such girls as these are conceited about their own accomplishments,
and endeavor unduly to disparage those of others! There are again some who are special pets
of their parents, and most jealously watched over at home. Often, no doubt, they are pretty,
often graceful; and frequently they will apply themselves with effect to music and to poetry,
in which they may even attain to special excellence. But then, their friends will keep their
drawbacks in the dark, and eulogize their merits to the utmost. If we were to give full credence
to this exaggerated praise, we could not but fail in every single instance to be more or less
disappointed."

So saying Tô-no-Chiûjiô paused, and appeared as if he were ashamed of having such an experience,
when Genji smilingly remarked, "Can any one of them, however, exist without at least one good
point?"

