"The `George!' no, Jim, but I can't make it out; there must be summut wrong, he came home about
an hour since, and stripped and washed him, then he goes right up into the chamber, and after
a bit comes down into the house with his best shoes and cap on.  `Where art going, Sammul?'
says I.  He says nothing, but crouches him down by the hearth-stone, and stares into the fire
as if he seed summat strange there.  Then he looks all about him, just as if he were reckoning
up the odd bits of things; still he says nothing.  `Sammul,' said I, `won't you take your tea,
lad?' for it were all ready for him on the table.  Still he doesn't speak, but just gets up
and goes to the door, and then to the hearth- stone, and then he claps his head on his hands
as though he were fretting o'er summat.  `Aren't you well, Sammul?' says I.  `Quite well, mother,'
says he, very short like.  So I just turns me round to go out, when he jumps up and says, `Mother:'
and I could see by the tears in his eyes that he were very full.  `Mother,' says he again,
and then he crouches him down again.  You wouldn't believe, how strange I felt--you might have
knocked me down with a feather; so I just goes across to old Jenny's to ax her to come and
look at him, for I thought he mightn't be right in his head.  I wasn't gone many minutes, but
when I got back our Sammul were not there, but close by where he were sitting I seed summat
lapped up in a piece of papper, lying on the table.  I opened it, and there were a five-shilling
piece and a bit of his hair, and he'd writ on the papper, `From Sammul, for dear mother.' 
Oh, what must I do--what must I do?  I shall ne'er see our Sammul any more," and the poor woman
sobbed as if her heart would break.

Before Jim had time to answer, a coarse-looking man of middle height, his hands thrust deep
into his pockets, a pipe in his mouth, and his whole appearance bespeaking one who, in his
best moments, was never thoroughly sober, strode up to the unhappy mother, and shouted out,--

"What's up now? what's all this about?"

"Your Sammul's run away--that's what it's about," said Jim.

"Run away!" cried the other; "I'll teach him to run away--I'll break every bone in his body
when I get him home again."

"Ay, but you must catch him first," said Jim, drily.

"Alice, what's all this?" said Johnson, for that was the father's name, turning fiercely on
his wife.

She repeated her story.  Johnson was staggered.  Samuel was a quiet lad of fourteen, who had
borne with moderate patience many a hard word and harder blow from both parents.  He had worked
steadily for them, even beyond his strength, and had seen the wages which ought to have found
him sufficiency of food and clothing squandered in drink by both father and mother.  Johnson
was staggered, because he knew that Samuel could have a will of his own; he had felt a force
in his son's character which he could not thoroughly understand; he had seen at times a decision
which showed that, boy as he was, he could break sooner than bend. Samuel, moreover, was an
only son, and his father loved him as dearly as a drunkard's selfishness would let him love
anything.  His very heart sickened at his wife's story, and not without cause.  They had but
two children, Samuel and Betty.  Samuel worked in the pits; his sister, who was a year younger,
was employed at the factory.  Poor children! their lot had been a sad one indeed.  As a neighbour
said, "yon lad and wench of Johnson's haven't been brought up, they've been dragged up."  It
was too true; half fed and worse clothed, a good constitution struggled up against neglect
and bad usage; no prayer was ever taught them by a mother's lips; they never knew the wholesome
stimulant of a sober father's smile; their scanty stock of learning had been picked up chiefly
at a night-school; in the Sunday school they had learned to read their Bibles, though but imperfectly,
and were never more happy than when singing with their companions the hymns which they had
practised together.  They were specially dear to one another; and in one thing had ever been
in the strictest agreement, they would never taste that drink which had made their own home
so miserable and desolate.

About a fortnight before our story opens, Langhurst had been placarded with bills announcing
that an able and well-known total abstinence advocate would give an address in the parish schoolroom.
Many went to hear, and among them Samuel and Betty Johnson.  Young and old were urged to sign
the pledge.  The speaker pictured powerfully a drunkard's home-- he showed how the drink enticed
its victims to their ruin like a cheating fiend plucking the sword of resistance from their
grasp while it smiled upon them.  He urged the young to begin at once, to put the barrier of
the pledge between themselves and the peculiar and subtle array of tempters and temptations
which hedged them in on all sides.  In the pledge they had something to point to which could
serve as an answer to those who could not or would not hear reason.  He showed the joy of a
home into which the drink had never found an entrance--total abstinence was safety--"never
to taste" was "never to crave."  He painted the vigour of a mind unclouded from earliest years
by alcoholic stimulants; he pointed to the blessing under God of a child's steady practical
protest, as a Christian abstainer, against the fearful sin which deluged our land with misery
and crime, and swept away every spark of joy and peace from the hearthstones of thousands of
English homes. Every word went deep into the hearts of Samuel and his sister: the drunkard's
home was their own, the drink was ever before their eyes, the daily sin and misery that it
caused they knew by sharp experience--time after time had they been urged to take the drink
by those very parents whose substance, whose strength, whose peace had all withered down to
the very ground under its fatal poison.  How hard had been the struggle to resist! but now,
if they became pledged abstainers, they would have something more to say which could give additional
strength to their refusal.

The speaker stood pen in hand when he had closed his address.

"Come--which of you young people will sign?"

Samuel made his way to the table.

"I don't mind if I do," he said; and then turning to Betty, when he had written his name, "come,
Betty," he cried, "you'll sign too--come, stick to the pen."

"Well, I might do worse, I reckon," said Betty, and she also signed.  A few more followed,
and shortly afterwards the meeting broke up.

But a storm was now brewing, which the brother and sister had not calculated for.  Johnson
and three or four kindred spirits were sitting round a neighbour's fire smoking and drinking
while the meeting was going on.  A short time after it had closed, a man thrust open the door
of the house where Johnson was sitting, and peeping round, said with a grin,--

"I say, Tommy Jacky," (the nickname by which Johnson was familiarly known), "your Sammul and
Betty have just been signing Teetottal Pledge."

"Eh! what do you say?" exclaimed Johnson in a furious tone, and springing to his feet; "signed
the pledge!  I'll see about that;" and hurrying out of the house, he half ran half staggered
to his own miserable dwelling.  He was tolerably sobered when he got there.  Samuel was sitting
by the fire near his mother, who was frying some bacon for supper.  Betty had just thrown aside
on to the couch the handkerchief which she had used instead of a bonnet, and was preparing
to help her mother.  Johnson sat down in the old rickety rocking-chair at the opposite side
of the fire to Samuel, and stooping down, unbuckled his clogs, which he kicked off savagely;
then he looked up at his son, and said in a voice of suppressed passion,--

"So, my lad, you've been and signed teetottal."

"Yes, I have," was the reply.

"And you've signed too," he cried in a louder voice, turning fiercely upon Betty.

"Ay, fayther, I have," said Betty, quietly.

"Well, now," said Johnson, clenching his teeth, "you just mind me, I'll have nothing of the
sort in my house.  I hate your nasty, mean, sneaking teetottallers--we'll have none of that
sort here.  D'ye hear?" he shouted.

Neither Samuel nor Betty spoke.

"Hush, hush, Tom," broke in his wife; "you mustn't scold the childer so. I'm no fonder nor
you of the teetottallers, but childer will not be driven.  Come, Sammul--come, Betty, you mustn't
be obstinate; you know fayther means what he says."

"Ay that I do," said her husband.  "And now, you listen: I'd sooner see you both in your graves,
nor have you sticking up your pledge cards about the house, and turning up the whites of your
eyes at your own fayther and mother, as if we were not good enough for the likes of you. Me
and mine have ever loved our pipe and our pot, the whole brood of us, and we ne'er said `no'
to a chap when he asked for a drop of drink--it shall never be said of me or mine, `They give
'em nothing in yon house but tea and cold water!'"

"Ay, ay; you're light, Thomas," said his wife; "I'm not for seeing our bairns beginning of
such newfangled ways.  Come, childer, just clap the foolish bits of papper behind the fire,
and sit ye down to your supper."

"Mother," said Betty, in a sad but decided voice, "we have seen enough in this house to make
us rue that ever a drop of the drink crossed our door-step.  We've toiled hard early and late
for you and fayther, but the drink has taken it all.  You may scold us if you will, but Sammul
and I must keep our pledge, and keep it gradely too."

"And I say," cried her father, striking his hand violently on the table, "I'll make you both
break afore ye're a day older; ye've pleased yourselves long enough, but ye shall please me
now.  I never said nothing afore, though mother nor me didn't like to see ye scowling at the
drink as if it were poison; a drop now and then would have done ye no harm, but ye were like
to please yourselves--but it's different now. We'll have none of your pledges here, ye may
make yourselves sure of that."

"You can't help yourself fayther," said Samuel doggedly: "pledged we are, and pledged we're
bound to be, but--"

Before he could say more, Johnson had snatched up one of his heavy clogs and had hurled it
at the head of his son, fortunately without striking him; then catching up both clogs, and
hastily buckling them, he strode to the door, and pausing for a moment, gasped out, "I've said
it, and I'll stick to it; ye shall both break your teetottal afore this time to- morrow, as
I'm a living man."

He was gone, and was seen no more at home that night.

This scene occurred the evening before that on which our story commences.  We have seen that
Johnson, miserable and abandoned drunkard as he was, was utterly staggered at the flight of
his son when coupled with his parting gift to his mother.  Was he really gone, and gone for
ever?  Had his own father driven him, by his cruel threats, to desperation, perhaps to self-destruction?
Unhappy man! he stood the very picture of dismay.  At last he said,--

"Perhaps he mayn't have got very far.  I'll just step over, Alice, to your brother John's;
maybe he'll have looked in there for a bit."

"Ay, do, Thomas," cried his wife; "and you must just tell him that he mustn't heed what you
said to him and Betty last night; it were only a bit of a breeze.  Oh, what'll our Betty say
when she finds our Sammul gone; she will fret, poor thing.  She just stepped out at the edge-o'-
dark, [see note 1] and she'll be back again just now.