I laid out for myself just one task and no more: I started in May, 1872, for the sources of
the Mississippi, thence to descend the entire river. After days of inquiry and two trips over
the Northern Pacific Railroad, I decided upon a route to Itasca Lake which no white man had
ever traversed. I made an entirely successful journey, marking out the White Earth route so
clearly that any child could follow it thereafter. What feat is there to go over ground which
I described so explicitly as follows?--First stage, to White Earth; second stage, to the Twin
Lakes; third stage, across the prairie to the Wild Rice River; fourth stage, up that stream
to the Lake of the Spirit Isle; and fifth stage, of half a day, by the Ah-she-wa-wa-see-ta-gen
portage, to the Mississippi, at a point twenty-six miles north of Itasca. The same afternoon
and the following day, energetically employed, will suffice to put anybody at the sources of
"the Father of Rivers." Anybody could take a tissue-paper boat to Itasca after 1872. Had I
had a predecessor over this route to Itasca, as Mr. Siegfried had, and could I have travelled
as he did with a roll of newspaper letters telling me where to stop and when, how to go and
where, I should have been the first to acknowledge my indebtedness to the man who showed me
the way. Why did not Mr. S. take Nicollet's or Schoolcraft's route, or seek a new one? Simply
for the reason that my itinerary was so clearly laid down that the journey became merely a
Cook's excursion. I had built and took with me to Minnesota a paper boat for the descent of
the river, but I have never made any secret of the fact that I bought another one (a twin in
name and fitted with the appliances of the New York craft) for the tramp of seventy miles through
the wilderness from the railroad to the sources. In this I merely followed the example frequently
set by Mr. MacGregor, who is the father of canoeing, and the advice of George A. Morrison,
government storekeeper at White Earth, the Hon. Dr. Day, United States Indian commissioner,
and other gentlemen of equal prominence. Neither of these gentlemen had been over the ground,
but they represented the country as awful in the extreme. I acquainted everybody who asked
with my decision, and, were it desirable to involve others in this matter, could name fifty
persons to whom every detail of this initial stage of my trip has been explained. Not a particle
of accurate information regarding the road, the number of days required or the distance could
be obtained. It was not possible then to contract for forty-one dollars to be landed on the
Mississippi! Mr. Siegfried might have seen at every camping-ground and meal-station along the
route the blazed trees bearing the deeply-cut Greek "delta," which seven years' precedence
cannot have effaced. His descriptions and mine are identical throughout: therefore, he has
either not been over the course at all (which I do not insinuate) or he only proves the accuracy
of my reports. He disposes of my fourteen hundred and seventy-one miles of canoeing on the
Mississippi because, forsooth! I did not make a small part of it in a craft to suit his liking.
He claims that his was the first wooden boat that ever pushed up to Itasca. This is something
that I don't know anything about: several parties have been there since 1832. What will he
do with the claimant of the first sheet-iron boat?

Mr. Siegfried's allegation that I made frequent portages is grossly and maliciously false.
That honor belongs to him, as a few facts will show. In giving the guide as his authority he
is most illogical, for in his first article (on three separate pages) he wholly discredits
this same man. Again, some information: there are five portages above Aitkin, as follows: first,
into the western gulf of Lake Cass, saving six miles; second, Little Winnipeg Lake into a stream
leading to the Ball Club Lake (missing the great tributary Leech Lake River); third, at White
Oak Point, below the Eagle's Nest Savannah; fourth, Pokegama Falls, a carry of two hundred
yards on the left bank (a necessity); and fifth, a cut-off above Swan River, saving six miles.
This last was the only portage (except the falls) made by my party, and was availed of to reach
good camping-ground before dark. Indeed, as to portaging I must yield the palm to my vainglorious
successor. Behold his record! He jumped twenty-six miles in the Ball Club Lake portage, and
was still unhappy because he could not ride from the landing below Pokegama to Aitkin (one
hundred and fifty miles; see p. 288) on the small steamboat that sometimes runs to the lumber-camp.
Reaching Muddy River (now Aitkin), in the language of a free pass, he boarded "the splendid
railway" for--Minneapolis!--thus again skipping two hundred and forty-four miles of the river
at one bound, and escaping the French Rapids, Little Falls, Pike, Wautab and Sauk Rapids, while
I was foolish enough to paddle down to Anoka (as near as I cared to go to St. Anthony's Falls).
Thence I portaged to Minnehaha Creek, as he did--another strange coincidence--whence, by daily
stages, I descended to Alton, seven hundred and seventy-five miles, where I took steamer for
St. Louis, New Orleans, and, finally, New York. Mr. Siegfried, on the contrary, in a distance
of six hundred and ninety-six miles from the sources to St. Anthony (Nicollet's official measurement;
see U. S. Senate Doc. 237, Twenty-sixth Congress, 2d Session, Appendix), jumped exactly two
hundred and sixty miles, or about two-fifths of his whole journey! Some of that water, too,
which he so conveniently escaped is very unpleasant, even dangerous, especially Pike Rapids,
into which I was drawn unawares, and had to run through at considerable risk to my boat.

        I am, sir, yours,

              J. CHAMBERS,

    The Crew of the Dolly Varden.

    PHILADELPHIA, August 21, 1880.

FATE OF AN OLD COMPANION OF NAPOLEON III.

L'Indépendant, published at Boulogne, gives some interesting details about a personage that
played an important rôle in the history of the last emperor of the French, and has not had
much cause to be proud of the gratitude of his patron. This personage was the famous tame eagle
that accompanied Prince Louis in his ridiculous expedition to Boulogne, and which was taught
to swoop down upon the head of the pretender--a glorious omen to those who did not know that
the attraction was a piece of salted pork! This unfortunate eagle was captured at the same
time as his master, but while the latter was shut up at Ham, the eagle was sent to the slaughter-house
at Boulogne, where he lived many years--an improvement in his fate, says L'Indépendant, since
his diet of salt pork was replaced by one of fresh meat. In 1855, Napoleon III. went to Boulogne
to review the troops destined for the Crimea and to receive the queen of England. While there
some one in his suite spoke to him of this bird, telling him that it was alive and where it
was to be found. But the emperor refused to see his old companion, or even grant him a life-pension
in the Paris Jardin des Plantes. The old eagle ended his days in the slaughter-house, and to-day
he figures, artistically taxidermatized, in one of the glass cases of the museum of Boulogne--immortal
as his master, despite the reverses of fortune.

A NATURAL BAROMETER.

Everybody has admired the delicate and ingenious work of the spider, everybody has watched
her movements as she spins her wonderful web, but all do not know that she is the most reliable
weather-prophet in the world. Before a wind-storm she shortens the threads that suspend her
web, and leaves them in this state as long as the weather remains unsettled. When she lengthens
these threads count on fine weather, and in proportion to their length will be its duration.
When a spider rests inactive it is a sign of rain: if she works during a rain, be sure it will
soon clear up and remain clear for some time. The spider, it is said, changes her web every
twenty-four hours, and the part of the day she chooses to do this is always significant. If
it occurs a little before sunset, the night will be fine and clear. Hence the old French proverb:
"Araignée du soir, espoir."

                          M. H.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

     L'Art: revue hebdomadaire illustrée. Sixième année, Tome II.
     New York: J. W. Bouton.

Nowhere but in Paris could the resources, the technical knowledge and perfect command of all
the appliances of bookmaking be found to sustain such a publication as L'Art. In six years
it has not abated by one tittle the perfection with which it first burst upon the world. Its
standard is as high, its subjects are as inexhaustible, as ever. We hear now and then of a
decline in French art: the great artists who carried it to the high-water mark of modern times
have all, or nearly all, passed away, but there is certainly no sign of a vacuum. The activity
of production is as great as ever, the interest in art as vital. L'Art draws its material from
past as well as present; the work of older artists is kept alive in its pages by the most perfect
reproductions; and in its special department of black and white there is advancement rather
than decline. The importance of such a publication to the interests of art throughout the world
is incalculable. It absorbs the best thought and production of the day. Its high standard and
breadth of scope render it impossible for any particular clique to predominate in its pages,
while its independent tone and encouragement of individual talent make it a powerful counteracting
influence to the conventionalism which forms the chief danger to art in a country where technical
rules have become official laws. In fact, L'Art has constituted itself a government of the
opposition. It has its Prix de Florence for the education in Italy of promising young sculptors--its
galleries in the Avenue de l'Opéra, which are used for the purpose of "independent" exhibitions
or for the display of work by one or another artist. It examines and reports the progress of
art all over the world, rousing the latent Parisian curiosity as to the achievements of foreign
artists, and, what is of more importance (to us at least), it shows the world what is being
done and said and thought in the art-circles of Paris. The perusal of its comprehensive index
alone will give the reader a clear outline of the state of art in Russia, Japan, Persia and
Algeria, as well as in the better-known countries. Such a work is not for the delight of one
people alone: it comes home to art-lovers everywhere.

The principal art-event of last spring was the Demidoff sale. About half the etchings in the
volume before us are reproductions of pictures in that collection. M. Flameng has forgotten
all the perplexities and intricacies of the nineteenth century to render the placid graciousness
of a beauty whose portrait was painted in the eighteenth by Drouais. M. Trimolet has etched
in a Dutch manner a landscape of Hobbema in the Louvre, but M. Gaucherel translates a Ruysdael
from the Demidoff collection into an exquisite delicacy and airiness of line which is the language
of etching in its most modern expression. A Demidoff Rembrandt, a Lucrezia, reproduced by the
needle of M. Koepping, is an example of the naïveté of an art which gave itself no thought
for archæology. Lucrezia is a simple Dutch maiden in the full-sleeved, straight-bodied Flemish
costume. Her innocent, childish face tells of real grief, but not of a tragic history. It is
interesting to compare the type with that of Raphael's Lucrezia, with its clinging classic
drapery and countenance moulded on that of a tragic mask.

The most striking etching in this volume is that of M. Edm. Ramus, after a portrait in this
year's Salon. The name of the painter, Van der Bos, is Flemish, but if his picture had any
qualities not distinctively French the genius of the etcher has swept them away. The conception,
the character, the pose would all pass for a work of the most advanced French school. Its qualities
belong to Paris and to-day. A young woman of a somewhat hard, positive type, neither beautiful
nor intellectual, but chic to her finger-tips, jauntily dressed--hat with curling feathers,
elbow sleeves, long gloves--standing in an erect and completely unaffected attitude,--that
is the subject. The execution is simply superb. Every line is strong and effective: the modelling,
the poise of the figure and the breadth of the shadows in dry point, are masterly. The Salon
articles, five in number, are from the pen of M. Ph. Burty, the most radical, incisive and
original writer on the staff--champion of the Impressionists, bitter enemy of the Academics
and warm admirer of any fresh, sincere and individual talent. In his short review of the work
of American artists in the Salon his sympathies are frankly with those who have ranged themselves
under unofficial leadership in their adopted city. He has warm eulogy both for Mr. Sargent
and Mr. Picknell, refusing to believe that the excellence of the latter is due in any way to
his instruction at the École des Beaux-Arts. M. Burty concludes the notice of American pictures
with a "Hurrah pour la jeune école Américaine! hurrah!" which will be gratefully responded
to by those of us who are proud of our growing school.

The "Silhouettes d'Artistes contemporains" are continued in two papers on De Nittis, accompanied
by some exquisite reproductions of etchings by that artist; and there are a couple of articles
of great interest by M. Véron on Ribot, illustrated by fac-similes of the powerful work of
one whom M. Véron unhesitatingly ranks among the greatest names in modern French art. There
is both literary and artistic interest in the engravings after pen-and-ink sketches made by
Victor Hugo, showing that the poet is able to throw his personality and wonderful imagination
into an art which he did not practise till pretty late in life, and then simply as a recreation
and without attempting to master its technique. Victor Hugo is stamped as plainly upon these
drawings--made, not by line and rule, but by following up the ideas suggested by the direction
of a blot of ink--as on the pages of his most deliberate works. In offering homage to the poet
L'Art does not depart from its line, which embraces art in its manifold forms. The newest products
of the stage are discussed as well as those of the studios, and contemporary literature is
reflected in more ways than one in its pages.

     Mrs. Beauchamp Brown. (Second No-Name Series.) Boston: Roberts
     Brothers.

Were this story as good as its name or half as good as some of the undeniably clever things
it contains, it might be accepted as a very fair book of its kind. It was written with the
evident intention of saying brilliant and witty things; but this brilliance and wit sometimes
miss their effect, as, for instance, on the very first page, where Dick Steele's famous compliment
is bestowed upon Lady Mary Wortley Montagu instead of the Lady Elizabeth Hastings. We might
mention other thwarted attempts, which give much the same jar to our sensibilities as when
some one thinks to afford us pleasure by singing a favorite air out of tune. The facility with
which the characters are transported from the ends of the earth to meet at a place called Plum
Island surpasses any trick in legerdemain. Unless we had read it here we should never have
believed that life on the coast of Maine could be so exciting, so cosmopolitan in its scope,
so thrilling in its incidents. There is a jumble of notabilities--leaders of Boston and Washington
society, a Jesuit Father, an English peer, a brilliant diplomatist on the point of setting
out on a foreign mission, a Circe the magic of whose voice and eyes is responsible for most
of the mischief which goes on, Anglican priests, a college professor, collegiates, at least
one raving maniac, beautiful young girls and representative Yankee men and women. From this
company, most of whom conduct themselves in manner which fails to prepossess us, Mrs. Beauchamp
Brown alone emerges with a distinct identity. Her zealous adherence to herself, her unconsciousness
of weakness or defect even in the most rashly-chosen part, are good points. The writer allows
her to express herself without too elaborate canvassing of her character and motives. When
the Fifth Avenue Hotel is burning the great lady is amazed at such behavior, and shrieks peremptory
orders to have the fire put out immediately. When she reaches Plum Island, and is transferred
from the steamboat to the skiff which is to carry her ashore, she is "angrily scared at the
seething waters and the grinning rocks."

"'Man! this thing is full of water: my feet are almost in it!' shrieked Mrs. Beauchamp Brown
as the gundalow lurched and heaved shoreward.

"The White man looked over his shoulder, and slowly wrinkled his leathern cheeks into an encouraging
smile. 'Like ter near killed a woggin,' replied he sententiously. 'Will be ashore in a brace
of shakes.'"

The Yankees are all capitally done, and the "local color" is excellent. There is not much to
be said for the other characters in the book. Margaret, who is supposed to be irresistible,
raises surprise if not disgust. Her conversation is crude and infelicitous, her conduct excessively
ill-bred. Indeed, for a company of so-called elegant people, the talk and doings are singularly
bald and crude. Even the Jesuit Father seems to have a dull perception about nice points of
good behavior, and we have a doubt which amounts to an active suspicion as to the reality of
the writer's experience of Jesuitical casuistry and social wiles. Certainly, Father Williams
fails to make us understand how his order could have ever been considered dangerous. It seems
a pity that the author should have tried such a wide survey of human nature. Her talent does
not carry her into melodrama, to say nothing of tragedy, but there are many evidences in her
book of very fair powers in the way of light comedy.

     Studies in German Literature. By Bayard Taylor. With an
     Introduction by George H. Boker.--Critical Essays and Literary
     Notes. By Bayard Taylor. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.

It would be impossible to name a better representative of American men of letters, if there
be such a class, than the late Bayard Taylor. We have a few writers, easily counted, who are
distinctively poets, novelists or essayists; but the common ambition is to unite these titles
and add a few others--to enjoy, in fact, a free range over the whole field of literature, exclusive
only of the most arid or least attractive portions. Taylor's versatility exceeded that of all
his competitors: he attempted a greater variety of tasks than any of them, and he failed in
none. And his writings, while so diverse, have a distinct and pervading flavor. Though he travelled
so extensively, imbibed so deeply of foreign literature, and wrote so much on foreign themes,
his tone of thought and sentiment not only remained thoroughly American, but was always suggestive
of his early life and surroundings, his quiet Pennsylvania home and its sober influences. His
pictures of these are not the least noteworthy portion of what he has given to the world, but
in all his productions the same spirit is visible--not flashing and impulsive, but habituated
to just conceptions and exact performance; not to be startled or dazed by novelties, but capable
of measuring and assimilating whatever best suited it. On the whole, his nature, while retaining
its individuality and poise, was rather a highly receptive than a strongly original one. Its
growth was a steady accretion of knowledge, ideas, experiences and aptitudes, without the exhibition
of that power which in minds of a rarer order reacts upon impressions with a transforming influence.
There is more appearance of freedom, of spontaneousness--paradoxical as this may seem--in his
translation of Faust than in any of his other performances, while deliberate, conscientious
workmanship is a leading characteristic of all, not excepting the short notices of books reprinted
from the New York Tribune in one of the volumes now before us. The matter of both these volumes
is chiefly critical, and the characterizations of men as well as of books are always discriminating,
generally just, often happily expressed, but seldom vivid. The articles on Rückert, Thackeray
and Weimar, which deal chiefly with personal reminiscences, are especially pleasant reading;
but the lectures on Goethe, however well they may have served their immediate purpose, contain
little that called for preservation, being neither profound nor stimulating. While, however,
these volumes may add nothing to their author's reputation, they are no unworthy memorials
of a laborious, well-spent and happy life, of a nature as kindly as it was earnest and sincere,
and of talents that had neither been buried nor misapplied. We find in a short paper on Lord
Houghton the remark that "there is an important difference between the impression which a man
makes who has avowedly done the utmost of which he is capable, and that which springs from
the exercise of genuine gifts not so stimulated to their highest development." It cannot be
doubted that the former description is that which would apply to Taylor himself, and probably
with more force than to almost any of his contemporaries.

     The American Art Review, Nos. 8 and 9. Boston: Estes & Lauriat.

