In the Devonshire valleys it is sweet to see how soon a spring becomes a rill, and a rill runs
on into a rivulet, and a rivulet swells into a brook; and before one has time to say, "What
are you at?"--before the first tree it ever spoke to is a dummy, or the first hill it ever
ran down has turned blue, here we have all the airs and graces, demands and assertions of a
full-grown river.

But what is the test of a river? Who shall say? "The power to drown a man," replies the river
darkly. But rudeness is not argument. Rather shall we say that the power to work a good undershot
wheel, without being dammed up all night in a pond, and leaving a tidy back-stream to spare
at the bottom of the orchard, is a fair certificate of riverhood. If so, many Devonshire streams
attain that rank within five miles of their spring; aye, and rapidly add to it. At every turn
they gather aid, from ash-clad dingle and aldered meadow, mossy rock and ferny wall, hedge-trough
roofed with bramble netting, where the baby water lurks, and lanes that coming down to ford
bring suicidal tribute. Arrogant, all-engrossing river, now it has claimed a great valley of
its own; and whatever falls within the hill scoop, sooner or later belongs to itself. Even
the crystal "shutt" that crosses the farmyard by the woodrick, and glides down an aqueduct
of last year's bark for Mary to fill the kettle from; and even the tricklets that have no organs
for telling or knowing their business, but only get into unwary oozings in and among the water-grass,
and there make moss and forget themselves among it--one and all, they come to the same thing
at last, and that is the river.

The Culm used to be a good river at Culmstock, tormented already by a factory, but not strangled
as yet by a railroad. How it is now the present writer does not know, and is afraid to ask,
having heard of a vile "Culm Valley Line." But Culm-stock bridge was a very pretty place to
stand and contemplate the ways of trout; which is easier work than to catch them. When I was
just big enough to peep above the rim, or to lie upon it with one leg inside for fear of tumbling
over, what a mighty river it used to seem, for it takes a treat there and spreads itself. Above
the bridge the factory stream falls in again, having done its business, and washing its hands
in the innocent half that has strayed down the meadows. Then under the arches they both rejoice
and come to a slide of about two feet, and make a short, wide pool below, and indulge themselves
in perhaps two islands, through which a little river always magnifies itself, and maintains
a mysterious middle. But after that, all of it used to come together, and make off in one body
for the meadows, intent upon nurturing trout with rapid stickles, and buttercuppy corners where
fat flies may tumble in. And here you may find in the very first meadow, or at any rate you
might have found, forty years ago, the celebrated "Crocker's Hole."

The story of Crocker is unknown to me, and interesting as it doubtless was, I do not deal with
him, but with his Hole. Tradition said that he was a baker's boy who, during his basket-rounds,
fell in love with a maiden who received the cottage-loaf, or perhaps good "Households," for
her master's use. No doubt she was charming, as a girl should be, but whether she encouraged
the youthful baker and then betrayed him with false rôle, or whether she "consisted" throughout,--as
our cousins across the water express it,--is known to their manes only. Enough that she would
not have the floury lad; and that he, after giving in his books and money, sought an untimely
grave among the trout. And this was the first pool below the bread-walk deep enough to drown
a five-foot baker boy. Sad it was; but such things must be, and bread must still be delivered
daily.

A truce to such reflections,--as our foremost writers always say, when they do not see how
to go on with them,--but it is a serious thing to know what Crocker's Hole was like; because
at a time when (if he had only persevered, and married the maid, and succeeded to the oven,
and reared a large family of short-weight bakers) he might have been leaning on his crutch
beside the pool, and teaching his grandson to swim by precept (that beautiful proxy for practice)--at
such a time, I say, there lived a remarkably fine trout in that hole. Anglers are notoriously
truthful, especially as to what they catch, or even more frequently have not caught. Though
I may have written fiction, among many other sins,--as a nice old lady told me once,--now I
have to deal with facts; and foul scorn would I count it ever to make believe that I caught
that fish. My length at that time was not more than the butt of a four-jointed rod, and all
I could catch was a minnow with a pin, which our cook Lydia would not cook, but used to say,
"Oh, what a shame, Master Richard! they would have been trout in the summer, please God! if
you would only a' let 'em grow on." She is living now, and will bear me out in this.

But upon every great occasion there arises a great man; or to put it more accurately, in the
present instance, a mighty and distinguished boy. My father, being the parson of the parish,
and getting, need it be said, small pay, took sundry pupils, very pleasant fellows, about to
adorn the universities. Among them was the original "Bude Light," as he was satirically called
at Cambridge, for he came from Bude, and there was no light in him. Among them also was John
Pike, a born Zebedee, if ever there was one.

John Pike was a thick-set younker, with a large and bushy head, keen blue eyes that could see
through water, and the proper slouch of shoulder into which great anglers ripen; but greater
still are born with it; and of these was Master John. It mattered little what the weather was,
and scarcely more as to the time of year, John Pike must have his fishing every day, and on
Sundays he read about it, and made flies. All the rest of the time he was thinking about it.

My father was coaching him in the fourth book of the Æneid and all those wonderful speeches
of Dido, where passion disdains construction; but the only line Pike cared for was of horsehair.
"I fear, Mr. Pike, that you are not giving me your entire attention," my father used to say
in his mild dry way; and once when Pike was more than usually abroad, his tutor begged to share
his meditations. "Well, sir," said Pike, who was very truthful, "I can see a green drake by
the strawberry tree, the first of the season, and your derivation of 'barbarous' put me in
mind of my barberry dye." In those days it was a very nice point to get the right tint for
the mallard's feather.

No sooner was lesson done than Pike, whose rod was ready upon the lawn, dashed away always
for the river, rushing headlong down the hill, and away to the left through a private yard,
where "no thoroughfare" was put up, and a big dog stationed to enforce it. But Cerberus himself
could not have stopped John Pike; his conscience backed him up in trespass the most sinful
when his heart was inditing of a trout upon the rise.

All this, however, is preliminary, as the boy said when he put his father's coat upon his grandfather's
tenterhooks, with felonious intent upon his grandmother's apples; the main point to be understood
is this, that nothing--neither brazen tower, hundred-eyed Argus, nor Cretan Minotaur--could
stop John Pike from getting at a good stickle. But, even as the world knows nothing of its
greatest men, its greatest men know nothing of the world beneath their very nose, till fortune
sneezes dexter. For two years John Pike must have been whipping the water as hard as Xerxes,
without having ever once dreamed of the glorious trout that lived in Crocker's Hole. But why,
when he ought to have been at least on bowing terms with every fish as long as his middle finger,
why had he failed to know this champion? The answer is simple--because of his short cuts. Flying
as he did like an arrow from a bow, Pike used to hit his beloved river at an elbow, some furlong
below Crocker's Hole, where a sweet little stickle sailed away down stream, whereas for the
length of a meadow upward the water lay smooth, clear, and shallow; therefore the youth, with
so little time to spare, rushed into the downward joy.

And here it may be noted that the leading maxim of the present period, that man can discharge
his duty only by going counter to the stream, was scarcely mooted in those days. My grandfather
(who was a wonderful man, if he was accustomed to fill a cart in two days of fly-fishing on
the Barle) regularly fished down stream; and what more than a cartload need anyone put into
his basket?

And surely it is more genial and pleasant to behold our friend the river growing and thriving
as we go on, strengthening its voice and enlargening its bosom, and sparkling through each
successive meadow with richer plenitude of silver, than to trace it against its own grain and
good-will toward weakness, and littleness, and immature conceptions.

However, you will say that if John Pike had fished up stream, he would have found this trout
much sooner. And that is true; but still, as it was, the trout had more time to grow into such
a prize. And the way in which John found him out was this. For some days he had been tormented
with a very painful tooth, which even poisoned all the joys of fishing. Therefore he resolved
to have it out, and sturdily entered the shop of John Sweetland, the village blacksmith, and
there paid his sixpence. Sweetland extracted the teeth of the village, whenever they required
it, in the simplest and most effectual way. A piece of fine wire was fastened round the tooth,
and the other end round the anvil's nose, then the sturdy blacksmith shut the lower half of
his shop door, which was about breast-high, with the patient outside and the anvil within;
a strong push of the foot upset the anvil, and the tooth flew out like a well-thrown fly. When
John Pike had suffered this very bravely, "Ah, Master Pike," said the blacksmith, with a grin,
"I reckon you won't pull out thic there big vish,"--the smithy commanded a view of the river,---"clever
as you be, quite so peart as thiccy."

"What big fish?" asked the boy, with deepest interest, though his mouth was bleeding fearfully.

"Why that girt mortial of a vish as hath his hover in Crocker's Hole. Zum on 'em saith as a'
must be a zammon."

Off went Pike with his handkerchief to his mouth, and after him ran Alec Bolt, one of his fellow-pupils,
who had come to the shop to enjoy the extraction.

"Oh, my!" was all that Pike could utter, when by craftily posting himself he had obtained a
good view of this grand fish.

"I'll lay you a crown you don't catch him!" cried Bolt, an impatient youth, who scorned angling.

"How long will you give me?" asked the wary Pike, who never made rash wagers.

"Oh! till the holidays if you like; or, if that won't do, till Michaelmas."

Now the midsummer holidays were six weeks off--boys used not to talk of "vacations" then, still
less of "recesses."

"I think I'll bet you," said Pike, in his slow way, bending forward carefully, with his keen
eyes on this monster; "but it would not be fair to take till Michaelmas. I'll bet you a crown
that I catch him before the holidays--at least, unless some other fellow does."

CHAPTER II.

The day of that most momentous interview must have been the 14th of May. Of the year I will
not be so sure; for children take more note of days than of years, for which the latter have
their full revenge thereafter. It must have been the 14th, because the morrow was our holiday,
given upon the 15th of May, in honour of a birthday.

Now, John Pike was beyond his years wary as well as enterprising, calm as well as ardent, quite
as rich in patience as in promptitude and vigour. But Alec Bolt was a headlong youth, volatile,
hot, and hasty, fit only to fish the Maelstrom, or a torrent of new lava. And the moment he
had laid that wager he expected his crown piece; though time, as the lawyers phrase it, was
"expressly of the essence of the contract."

And now he demanded that Pike should spend the holiday in trying to catch that trout.

"I shall not go near him," that lad replied, "until I have got a new collar." No piece of personal
adornment was it, without which he would not act, but rather that which now is called the fly-cast,
or the gut-cast, or the trace, or what it may be. "And another thing," continued Pike; "the
bet is off if you go near him, either now or at any other time, without asking: my leave first,
and then only going as I tell you."

"What do I want with the great slimy beggar?" the arrogant Bolt made answer. "A good rat is
worth fifty of him. No fear of my going near him, Pike. You shan't get out of it that way."

Pike showed his remarkable qualities that day, by fishing exactly as he would have fished without
having heard of the great Crockerite. He was up and away upon the mill-stream before breakfast;
and the forenoon he devoted to his favourite course--first down the Craddock stream, a very
pretty confluent of the Culm, and from its junction, down the pleasant hams, where the river
winds toward Uffculme. It was my privilege to accompany this hero, as his humble Sancho; while
Bolt and the faster race went up the river ratting. We were back in time to have Pike's trout
(which ranged between two ounces and one-half pound) fried for the early dinner; and here it
may be lawful to remark that the trout of the Culm are of the very purest excellence, by reason
of the flinty bottom, at any rate in these the upper regions. For the valley is the western
outlet of the Black-down range, with the Beacon hill upon the north, and Hackpen long ridge
to the south; and beyond that again the Whetstone hill, upon whose western end dark port-holes
scarped with white grit mark the pits. But flint is the staple of the broad Culm Valley, under
good, well-pastured loam; and here are chalcedonies and agate stones.

At dinner everybody had a brace of trout--large for the larger folk, little for the little
ones, with coughing and some patting on the back for bones. What of equal purport could the
fierce rat-hunter show? Pike explained many points in the history of each fish, seeming to
know them none the worse, and love them all the better, for being fried. We banqueted, neither
a whit did soul get stinted of banquet impartial. Then the wielder of the magic rod very modestly
sought leave of absence at the tea time.

"Fishing again, Mr. Pike, I suppose," my father answered pleasantly; "I used to-be fond of
it at your age; but never so entirely wrapped up in it as you are."

"No, sir; I am not going fishing again. I want to walk to Wellington, to get some things at
Cherry's."

"Books, Mr. Pike? Ah! I am very glad of that. But I fear it can only be fly-books."

"I want a little Horace for eighteen-pence--the Cambridge one just published, to carry in my
pocket--and a new hank of gut."

"Which of the two is more important? Put that into Latin, and answer it."

"Utrum pluris facio? Flaccum flocci. Viscera magni." With this vast effort Pike turned as red
as any trout spot.

"After that who could refuse you?" said my father. "You always tell the truth, my boy, in Latin
or in English."

Although it was a long walk, some fourteen miles to Wellington and back, I got permission to
go with Pike; and as we crossed the bridge and saw the tree that overhung Crocker's Hole, I
begged him to show me that mighty fish.

"Not a bit of it," he replied. "It would bring the blackguards. If the blackguards once find
him out, it is all over with him."

"The blackguards are all in factory now, and I am sure they cannot see us from the windows.
They won't be out till five o'clock."

With the true liberality of young England, which abides even now as large and glorious as ever,
we always called the free and enlightened operatives of the period by the courteous name above
set down, and it must be acknowledged that some of them deserved it, although perhaps they
poached with less of science than their sons. But the cowardly murder of fish by liming the
water was already prevalent.

Yielding to my request and perhaps his own desire--manfully kept in check that morning--Pike
very carefully approached that pool, commanding me to sit down while he reconnoitred from the
meadow upon the right bank of the stream. And the place which had so sadly quenched the fire
of the poor baker's love filled my childish heart with dread and deep wonder at the cruelty
of women. But as for John Pike, all he thought of was the fish and the best way to get at him.

Very likely that hole is "holed out" now, as the Yankees well express it, or at any rate changed
out of knowledge. Even in my time a very heavy flood entirely altered its character; but to
the eager eye of Pike it seemed pretty much as follows, and possibly it may have come to such
a form again:

The river, after passing though a hurdle fence at the head of the meadow, takes a little turn
or two of bright and shallow indifference, then gathers itself into a good strong slide, as
if going down a slope instead of steps. The right bank is high and beetles over with yellow
loam and grassy fringe; but the other side is of flinty shingle, low and bare and washed by
floods. At the end of this rapid, the stream turns sharply under an ancient alder tree into
a large, deep, calm repose, cool, unruffled, and sheltered from the sun by branch and leaf--and
that is the hole of poor Crocker.

At the head of the pool (where the hasty current rushes in so eagerly, with noisy excitement
and much ado) the quieter waters from below, having rested and enlarged themselves, come lapping
up round either curve, with some recollection of their past career, the hoary experience of
foam. And sidling toward the new arrival of the impulsive column, where they meet it, things
go on, which no man can describe without his mouth being full of water. A "V" is formed, a
fancy letter V, beyond any designer's tracery, and even beyond his imagination, a perpetually
fluctuating limpid wedge, perpetually crenelled and rippled into by little ups and downs that
try to make an impress, but can only glide away upon either side or sink in dimples under it.
And here a gray bough of the ancient alder stretches across, like a thirsty giant's arm, and
makes it a very ticklish place to throw a fly. Yet this was the very spot our John Pike must
put his fly into, or lose his crown.

Because the great tenant of Crocker's Hole, who allowed no other fish to wag a fin there, and
from strict monopoly had grown so fat, kept his victualing yard--if so low an expression can
be used concerning him--within about a square yard of this spot. He had a sweet hover, both
for rest and recreation, under the bank, in a placid antre, where the water made no noise,
but tickled his belly in digestive ease. The loftier the character is of any being, the slower
and more dignified his movements are. No true psychologist could have believed--as Sweet-land
the blacksmith did, and Mr. Pook the tinman--that this trout could ever be the embodiment of
Crocker. For this was the last trout in the universal world to drown himself for love; if truly
any trout has done so.

"You may come now, and try to look along my back," John Pike, with a reverential whisper, said
to me. "Now don't be in a hurry, young stupid; kneel down. He is not to be disturbed at his
dinner, mind. You keep behind me, and look along my back; I never clapped eyes on such a whopper."

I had to kneel down in a tender reminiscence of pasture land, and gaze carefully; and not having
eyes like those of our Zebedee (who offered his spine for a camera, as he crawled on all fours
in front of me), it took me a long time to descry an object most distinct to all who have that
special gift of piercing with their eyes the water. See what is said upon this subject in that
delicious book, "The Gamekeeper at Home."

"You are no better than a muff," said Pike, and it was not in my power to deny it.

"If the sun would only leave off," I said. But the sun, who was having a very pleasant play
with the sparkle of the water and the twinkle of the leaves, had no inclination to leave off
yet, but kept the rippling crystal in a dance of flashing facets, and the quivering verdure
in a steady flush of gold.

But suddenly a May-fly, a luscious gray-drake, richer and more delicate than canvas-back or
woodcock, with a dart and a leap and a merry zigzag, began to enjoy a little game above the
stream. Rising and falling like a gnat, thrilling her gauzy wings, and arching her elegant
pellucid frame, every now and then she almost dipped her three long tapering whisks into the
dimples of the water.

"He sees her! He'll have her as sure as a gun!" cried Pike, with a gulp, as if he himself were
"rising." "Now, can you see him, stupid?"

"Crikey, crokums!" I exclaimed, with classic elegance; "I have seen that long thing for five
minutes; but I took it for a tree."

"You little"--animal quite early in the alphabet--"now don't you stir a peg, or I'll dig my
elbow into you."

The great trout was stationary almost as a stone, in the middle of the "V" above described.
He was gently fanning with his large clear fins, but holding his own against the current mainly
by the wagging of his broad-fluked tail. As soon as my slow eyes had once defined him, he grew
upon them mightily, moulding himself in the matrix of the water, as a thing put into jelly
does. And I doubt whether even John Pike saw him more accurately than I did. His size was such,
or seemed to be such, that I fear to say a word about it; not because language does not contain
the word, but from dread of exaggeration. But his shape and colour may be reasonably told without
wounding the feeling of an age whose incredulity springs from self-knowledge.

His head was truly small, his shoulders vast; the spring of his back was like a rainbow when
the sun is southing; the generous sweep of his deep elastic belly, nobly pulped out with rich
nurture, showed what the power of his brain must be, and seemed to undulate, time for time,
with the vibrant vigilance of his large wise eyes. His latter end was consistent also. An elegant
taper run of counter, coming almost to a cylinder, as a mackered does, boldly developed with
a hugeous spread to a glorious amplitude of swallow-tail. His colour was all that can well
be desired, but ill-described by any poor word-palette. Enough that he seemed to tone away
from olive and umber, with carmine stars, to glowing gold and soft pure silver, mantled with
a subtle flush of rose and fawn and opal.

Swoop came a swallow, as we gazed, and was gone with a flick, having missed the May-fly. But
the wind of his passage, or the stir of wing, struck the merry dancer down, so that he fluttered
for one instant on the wave, and that instant was enough. Swift as the swallow, and more true
of aim, the great trout made one dart, and a sound, deeper than a tinkle, but as silvery as
a bell, rang the poor ephemerid's knell. The rapid water scarcely showed a break; but a bubble
sailed down the pool, and the dark hollow echoed with the music of a rise.

"He knows how to take a fly," said Pike; "he has had too many to be tricked with mine. Have
him I must; but how ever shall I do it?"

All the way to Wellington he uttered not a word, but shambled along with a mind full of care.
When I ventured to look up now and then, to surmise what was going on beneath his hat, deeply-set
eyes and a wrinkled forehead, relieved at long intervals by a solid shake, proved that there
are meditations deeper than those of philosopher or statesman.

CHAPTER III.

Surely no trout could have been misled by the artificial May-fly of that time, unless he were
either a very young fish, quite new to entomology, or else one afflicted with a combination
of myopy and bulimy. Even now there is room for plenty of improvement in our counterfeit presentment;
but in those days the body was made with yellow mohair, ribbed with red silk and gold twist,
and as thick as a fertile bumble-bee. John Pike perceived that to offer such a thing to Crocker's
trout would probably consign him--even if his great stamina should over-get the horror--to
an uneatable death, through just and natural indignation. On the other hand, while the May-fly
lasted, a trout so cultured, so highly refined, so full of light and sweetness, would never
demean himself to low bait, or any coarse son of a maggot.

Meanwhile Alec Bolt allowed poor Pike no peaceful thought, no calm absorption of high mind
into the world of flies, no placid period of cobblers' wax, floss-silk, turned hackles, and
dubbing. For in making of flies John Pike had his special moments of inspiration, times of
clearer insight into the everlasting verities, times of brighter conception and more subtle
execution, tails of more elastic grace and heads of a neater and nattier expression. As a poet
labours at one immortal line, compressing worlds of wisdom into the music of ten syllables,
so toiled the patient Pike about the fabric of a fly comprising all the excellence that ever
sprang from maggot. Yet Bolt rejoiced to jerk his elbow at the moment of sublimest art. And
a swarm of flies was blighted thus.

Peaceful, therefore, and long-suffering, and full of resignation as he was, John Pike came
slowly to the sad perception that arts avail not without arms. The elbow, so often jerked,
at last took a voluntary jerk from the shoulder, and Alec Bolt lay prostrate, with his right
eye full of cobbler's wax. This put a desirable check upon his energies for a week or more,
and by that time Pike had flown his fly.

When the honeymoon of spring and summer (which they are now too fashionable to celebrate in
this country), the hey-day of the whole year marked by the budding of the wild rose, the start
of the wheatear from its sheath, the feathering of the lesser plantain, and flowering of the
meadowsweet, and, foremost for the angler's joy, the caracole of May-flies--when these things
are to be seen and felt (which has not happened at all this year), then rivers should be mild
and bright, skies blue and white with fleecy cloud, the west wind blowing softly, and the trout
in charming appetite.

On such a day came Pike to the bank of Culm, with a loudly beating heart. A fly there is, not
ignominious, or of cowdab origin, neither gross and heavy-bodied, from cradlehood of slimy
stones, nor yet of menacing aspect and suggesting deeds of poison, but elegant, bland, and
of sunny nature, and obviously good to eat. Him or her--why quest we which?--the shepherd of
the dale, contemptuous of gender, except in his own species, has called, and as long as they
two coexist will call, the "Yellow Sally." A fly that does not waste the day in giddy dances
and the fervid waltz, but undergoes family incidents with decorum and discretion. He or she,
as the case may be,--for the natural history of the river bank is a book to come hereafter,
and of fifty men who make flies not one knows the name of the fly he is making,--in the early
morning of June, or else in the second quarter of the afternoon, this Yellow Sally fares abroad,
with a nice well-ordered flutter.

Despairing of the May-fly, as it still may be despaired of, Pike came down to the river with
his master-piece of portraiture. The artificial Yellow Sally is generally always--as they say
in Cheshire--a mile or more too yellow. On the other hand, the "Yellow Dun" conveys no idea
of any Sally. But Pike had made a very decent Sally, not perfect (for he was young as well
as wise), but far above any counterfeit to be had in fishing-tackle shops. How he made it,
he told nobody. But if he lives now, as I hope he does, any of my readers may ask him through
the G.P.O., and hope to get an answer.

It fluttered beautifully on the breeze, and in such living form, that a brother or sister Sally
came up to see it, and went away sadder and wiser. Then Pike said: "Get away, you young wretch,"
to your humble servant who tells this tale; yet being better than his words, allowed that pious
follower to lie down upon his digestive organs and with deep attention watch, There must have
been great things to see, but to see them so was difficult. And if I huddle up what happened,
excitement also shares the blame.

Pike had fashioned well the time and manner of this overture. He knew that the giant Crockerite
was satiate now with May-flies, or began to find their flavour failing, as happens to us with
asparagus, marrow-fat peas, or strawberries, when we have had a month of them. And he thought
that the first Yellow Sally of the season, inferior though it were, might have the special
charm of novelty. With the skill of a Zulu, he stole up through the branches over the lower
pool till he came to a spot where a yard-wide opening gave just space for spring of rod. Then
he saw his desirable friend at dinner, wagging his tail, as a hungry gentleman dining with
the Lord Mayor agitates his coat. With one dexterous whirl, untaught by any of the many-books
upon the subject, John Pike laid his Yellow Sally (for he cast with one fly only) as lightly
as gossamer upon the rapid, about a yard in front of the big trout's head.

A moment's pause, and then, too quick for words, was the things that happened.

A heavy plunge was followed by a fearful rush. Forgetful of current the river was ridged, as
if with a plough driven under it; the strong line, though given out as fast as might be, twanged
like a harp-string as it cut the wave, and then Pike stood up, like a ship dismasted, with
the butt of his rod snapped below the ferrule. He had one of those foolish things, just invented,
a hollow butt of hickory; and the finial ring of his spare top looked out, to ask what had
happened to the rest of it. "Bad luck!" cried the fisherman; "but never mind, I shall have
him next time, to a certainty."

When this great issue came to be considered, the cause of it was sadly obvious. The fish, being
hooked, had made off with the rush of a shark for the bottom of the pool. A thicket of saplings
below the alder tree had stopped the judicious hooker from all possibility of following; and
when he strove to turn him by elastic pliance, his rod broke at the breach of pliability. "I
have learned a sad lesson," said John Pike, looking sadly.

How many fellows would have given up this matter, and glorified themselves for having hooked
so grand a fish, while explaining that they must have caught him, if they could have done it!
But Pike only told me not to say a word about it, and began to make ready for another tug of
war. He made himself a splice-rod, short and handy, of well-seasoned ash, with a stout top
of bamboo, tapered so discreetly, and so balanced in its spring, that verily it formed an arc,
with any pressure on it, as perfect as a leafy poplar in a stormy summer. "Now break it if
you can," he said, "by any amount of rushes; I'll hook you by your jacket collar; you cut away
now, and I'll land you."

This was highly skilful, and he did it many times; and whenever I was landed well, I got a
lollypop, so that I was careful not to break his tackle. Moreover he made him a landing net,
with a kidney-bean stick, a ring of wire, and his own best nightcap of strong cotton net. Then
he got the farmer's leave, and lopped obnoxious bushes; and now the chiefest question was:
what bait, and when to offer it? In spite of his sad rebuff, the spirit of John Pike had been
equable. The genuine angling mind is steadfast, large, and self-supported, and to the vapid,
ignominious chaff, tossed by swine upon the idle wind, it pays as much heed as a big trout
does to a dance of midges. People put their fingers to their noses and said: "Master Pike,
have you caught him yet?" and Pike only answered: "Wait a bit." If ever this fortitude and
perseverance is to be recovered as the English Brand (the one thing that has made us what we
are, and may yet redeem us from niddering shame), a degenerate age should encourage the habit
of fishing and never despairing. And the brightest sign yet for our future is the increasing
demand for hooks and gut.

Pike fished in a manlier age, when nobody would dream of cowering from a savage because he
was clever at skulking; and when, if a big fish broke the rod, a stronger rod was made for
him, according to the usage of Great Britain. And though the young angler had been defeated,
he did not sit down and have a good cry over it.

About the second week in June, when the May-fly had danced its day, and died,--for the season
was an early one,--and Crocker's trout had recovered from the wound to his feelings and philanthropy,
there came a night of gentle rain, of pleasant tinkling upon window ledges, and a soothing
patter among young leaves, and the Culm was yellow in the morning, "I mean to do it this afternoon,"
Pike whispered to me, as he came back panting. "When the water clears there will be a splendid
time."

The lover of the rose knows well a gay voluptuous beetle, whose pleasure is to lie embedded
in a fount of beauty. Deep among the incurving petals of the blushing-fragrance, he loses himself
in his joys sometimes, till a breezy waft reveals him. And when the sunlight breaks upon his
luscious dissipation, few would have the heart to oust him, such a gem from such a setting.
All his back is emerald sparkles all his front red Indian gold, and here and there he grows
white spots to save the eye from aching. Pike put his finger in and fetched him out, and offered
him a little change of joys, by putting a Limerick hook-through his thorax, and bringing it
out between his elytra. Cetonia aurata liked it not, but pawed the air very naturally, and
fluttered with his wings attractively.

"I meant to have tried with a fern-web," said the angler; "until I saw one of these beggars
this morning. If he works like that upon the water, he will do. It was hopeless to try artificials
again. What a lovely colour the water is! Only three days now to the holidays. I have run it
very close. You be ready, younker."

With these words he stepped upon a branch of the alder, for the tone of the waters allowed
approach, being soft and sublustrous, without any mud. Also Master Pike's own tone was such
as becomes the fisherman, calm, deliberate, free from nerve, but full of eye and muscle. He
stepped upon the alder bough to get as near as might be to the fish, for he could not cast
this beetle like a fly; it must be dropped gently and allowed to play. "You may come and look,"
he said to me; "when the water is so, they have no eyes in their tails."

The rose-beetle trod upon the water prettily, under a lively vibration, and he looked quite
as happy, and considerably more active, than when he had been cradled in the anthers of the
rose. To the eye of a fish he was a strong individual, fighting courageously with the current,
but sure to be beaten through lack of fins; and mercy suggested, as well as appetite, that
the proper solution was to gulp him.

"Hooked him in the gullet. He can't get off!" cried John Pike, labouring to keep his nerves
under; "every inch of tackle is as strong as a bell-pull. Now, if I don't land him, I will
never fish again!"

Providence, which had constructed Pike foremost of all things, for lofty angling-disdainful
of worm and even minnow--Providence, I say, at this adjuration, pronounced that Pike must catch
that trout. Not many anglers are heaven-born; and for one to drop off the hook halfway through
his teens would be infinitely worse than to slay the champion trout. Pike felt the force of
this, and rushing through the rushes, shouted: "I am sure to have him, Dick! Be ready with
my nightcap."

Rod in a bow, like a springle-riser; line on the hum, like the string of Paganini winch on
the gallop, like a harpoon wheel, Pike, the head-centre of everything, dashing through thick
and thin, and once taken overhead--for he jumped into the hole, when he must have lost him
else, but the fish too impetuously towed him out, and made off in passion for another pool,
when, if he had only retired to his hover, the angler might have shared the baker's fate--all
these things (I tell you, for they all come up again, as if the day were yesterday) so scared
me of my never very steadfast wits, that I could only holloa! But one thing I did, I kept the
nightcap ready.

"He is pretty nearly spent, I do believe," said Pike; and his voice was like balm of Gilead,
as we came to Farmer Anning's meadow, a quarter of a mile below Crocker's Hole. "Take it coolly,
my dear boy, and we shall be safe to have him."

Never have I felt, through forty years, such tremendous responsibility. I had not the faintest
notion now to use a landing net; but a mighty general directed me. "Don't let him see it; don't
let him see it! Don't clap it over him; go under him, you stupid! If he makes another rush,
he will get off, after all. Bring it up his tail. Well done! You have him!"

The mighty trout lay in the nightcap of Pike, which was half a fathom long, with a tassel at
the end, for his mother had made it in the winter evenings. "Come and hold the rod, if you
can't lift him," my master shouted, and so I did. Then, with both arms straining, and his mouth
wide open, John Pike made a mighty sweep, and we both fell upon the grass and rolled, with
the giant of the deep flapping heavily between us, and no power left to us, except to cry,
"Hurrah!"

