Use to the utmost what books you have, and do not waste your time in longing after a great
library. You wish you could live in the city and have access to some great collection of books.
Be not deceived. The book of the library which you want will be out the day you want it. I
longed to live in town that I might be in proximity to great libraries. Have lived in town
thirteen years, and never found in the public library the book I asked for but once; and getting
that home, I discovered it was not the one I wanted. Besides, it is the book that you own that
most profits, not that one which you take from "The Athenæum" for a few days.

Excepting in rare cases, you might as well send to the foundling hospital and borrow a baby
as to borrow a book with the idea of its being any great satisfaction. We like a baby in our
cradle, but prefer that one which belongs to the household. We like a book, but want to feel
it is ours. We never yet got any advantage from a borrowed book. We hope those never reaped
any profit from the books they borrowed from us, but never returned. We must have the right
to turn down the leaf, and underscore the favorite passage, and write an observation in the
margin in such poor chirography that no one else can read it and we ourselves are sometimes
confounded.

All success to great libraries, and skillful book-bindery, and exquisite typography, and fine-tinted
plate paper, and beveled boards, and gilt edges, and Turkey morocco! but we are determined
that frescoed alcoves shall not lord it over common shelves, and Russia binding shall not overrule
sheepskin, and that "full calf" shall not look down on pasteboard. We war not against great
libraries. We only plead for the better use of small ones.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

REFORMATION IN LETTER-WRITING.

We congratulate the country on the revolution in epistolary correspondence. Through postal
cards we not only come to economy in stamps, and paper, and ink, and envelopes, but to education
in brevity. As soon as men and women get facility in composition they are tempted to prolixity.
Hence some of us formed the habit of beginning to read a letter on the second page, because
we knew that the writer would not get a-going before that; and then we were apt to stop a page
or two before the close, knowing that the remaining portions would be taken in putting down
the brakes.

The postal card is a national deliverance. Without the conventional "I take my pen in hand,"
or other rigmarole--which being translated means, "I am not quite ready to begin just now,
but will very soon"--the writer states directly, and in ten or twenty words, all his business.

While no one can possibly have keener appreciation than we of letters of sympathy, encouragement
and good cheer, there is a vast amount of letter-writing that amounts to nothing. Some of them
we carry in our pockets, and read over and over again, until they are worn out with handling.
But we average about twenty begging letters a day. They are always long, the first page taken
up in congratulations upon "big heart," "wide influence," "Christian sympathies," and so on,
winding up with a solicitation for five dollars, more or less. We always know from the amount
of lather put on that we are going to be shaved. The postal card will soon invade even that
verbosity, and the correspondent will simply say, "Poor--very--children ten--chills and fever
myself--no quinine--desperate-- your money or your life--Bartholomew Wiggins, Dismal Swamp, Ia."

The advantage of such a thing is that, if you do not answer such a letter no offence is taken,
it is so short and costs only a cent; whereas, if the author had taken a great sheet of letter
paper, filled it with compliments and graceful solicitations, folded it, and run the gummed
edge along the lips at the risk of being poisoned, and stuck on a stamp (after tedious examination
of it to see whether or not it had been used before, or had only been mauled in your vest pocket),
the offence would have been mortal, and you would have been pronounced mean and unfit for the
ministry.

Postal cards are likewise a relief to that large class of persons who by sealed envelope are
roused to inquisitiveness. As such a closed letter lies on the mantel-piece unopened, they
wonder whom it is from, and what is in it, and they hold it up between them and the light to
see what are the indications, and stand close by and look over your shoulder while you read
it, and decipher from your looks whether it is a love-letter or a dun. The postal card is immediate
relief to them, for they can read for themselves, and can pick up information on various subjects
free of charge.

But, after all, the great advantage of this new postal arrangement is economy in the consumption
of time. It will practically add several years to a man's life, and will keep us a thousand
times, at the beginning of our letters, from saying "Dear Sir" to those who are not at all
dear, and will save us from surrendering ourselves with a "Yours, truly," to those to whom
we will never belong. We hail the advent of the postal-card system.

CHAPTER XLIX.

ROYAL MARRIAGES.

There has lately been such a jingle of bells in St. Petersburg and London that we have heard
them quite across the sea. The queen's son has married the daughter of the Russian emperor.
We are glad of it. It is always well to have people marry who are on the same level. The famous
affiancing in New York of a coachman with the daughter of the millionaire who employed him
did not turn out well. It was bad for her, but worse for the coachman. Eagle and ox are both
well in their places, but let them not marry. The ox would be dizzy in the eyrie, and the eagle
ill at home in the barnyard. When the children of two royal homes are united, there ought be
no begrudging of powder for the cannonading, or of candles for the illumination. All joy to
the Duke of Edinburgh and his fortunate duchess.

But let not our friends across the sea imagine that we have no royal marriages here in this
western wilderness. Whenever two hearts come together pledged to make each other happy, binding
all their hopes and fears and anticipations in one sheaf, calling on God to bless and angels
to witness, though no organ may sound the wedding-march, and no bells may chime, and no Dean
of Westminster travel a thousand miles to pronounce the ceremony,--that is a royal marriage.

When two young people start out on life together with nothing but a determination to succeed,
avoiding the invasion of each other's idiosyncrasies, not carrying the candle near the gunpowder,
sympathetic with each other's employment, willing to live on small means till they get large
facilities, paying as they go, taking life here as a discipline, with four eyes watching its
perils, and with four hands fighting its battles, whatever others may say or do,--that is a
royal marriage. It is so set down in the heavenly archives, and the orange blossoms shall wither
on neither side the grave.

We deplore the fact that because of the fearful extravagances of modern society many of our
best people conclude that they cannot possibly afford to marry.

We are getting a fearful crop of old bachelors. They swarm around us. They go through life
lopsided. Half dressed, they sit round cold mornings, all a-shiver, sewing on buttons and darning
socks, and then go down to a long boarding-house table which is bounded on the north and south
and east and west by the Great Sahara Desert. We do not pity them at all. May all their buttons
be off to-morrow morning! Why do they not set up a plain home of their own and come into the
ark two and two?

The supporting of a wife is looked upon as a great horror. Why, dear friends, with right and
healthy notions of time and eternity it is very easy to support a wife if she be of the kind
worth supporting. If she be educated into false notions of refinement and have "young ladies'
institutes" piled on her head till she be imbecile, you will never be able to support her.
Everything depends on whether you take for your wife a woman or a doll-baby. Our opinion is
that three-fourths the successful men of the day owe much of their prosperity to the wife's
help. The load of life is so heavy it takes a team of two to draw it. The ship wants not only
a captain, but a first mate. Society to-day, trans-Atlantic and cis-Atlantic, very much needs
more royal marriages.

CHAPTER L.

THREE VISITS.

Yesterday was Saturday to you, but it was Sunday to me. In other words, it was a day of rest.
We cannot always be working. If you drive along in a deep rut, and then try to turn off, you
are very apt to break the shafts. A skillful driver is careful not to get into a deep rut.
You cannot always be keeping on in the same way. We must have times of leisure and recreation.

A great deal of Christian work amounts to nothing, from the fact that it is not prefaced and
appendixed by recreation. Better take hold of a hammer and give one strong stroke and lay it
down than to be all the time so fagged out that we cannot move the hammer.

Well, yesterday being a day of rest to me, I made three visits in New York.

The first was to the Tombs--an institution seemingly full now, a man or woman or boy at every
wicket. A great congregation of burglars, thieves, pickpockets and murderers. For the most
part, they are the clumsy villains of society; the nimble, spry ones get out of the way, and
are not caught. There are those who are agile as well as depraved in that dark place. Stokes,
representing the aristocracy of crime; Foster, the democracy of sin; and Rozensweig, the brute.
Each cell a commentary upon the Scripture passage, "The way of the transgressor is hard."

I was amazed to see that the youth are in the majority in that building. I said to the turnkey:
"What a pity it is that that bright fellow is in here!" "Oh," he says, "these bright fellows
keep us busy." I talked some with the boys, and they laughed; but there was a catch in the
guffaw, as though the laughter on its way had stumbled over a groan. It was not a deep laugh
and a laugh all over, as boys generally do when they are merry. These boys have had no chance.
They have been in the school of crime all their days, and are now only taking their degree
of "M.V."--master of villainy.

God hasten the time when our Sabbath-schools, instead of being flower-pots for a few choice
children, shall gather up the perishing rabble outside, like Ralph Wells' school in New York,
and Father Hawley's school in Hartford, and John Wanamaker's school in Philadelphia! There
is not much chance in our fashionable Sunday-schools for a boy out at the elbows. Many of our
schools pride themselves on being gilt-edged; and when-we go out to fulfill the Saviour's command,
"Feed my lambs," we look out chiefly for white fleeces. I like that school the best, which,
in addition to the glorious gospel, carries soap and fine-tooth combs. God save the dying children
of the street! I saw a child in the Tombs four years of age, and said, "What in the world can
this little child be doing here?" They told me the father had been arrested and the child had
to go with him. Allegory, parable, prophecy: "Where the father goes the child goes." Father
inside the grates, and son outside waiting to get in.

All through the corridors of that prison I saw Scripture passages: "I am the way of life;"
"Believe in the Lord, and thou shalt be saved;" and like passages. Who placed them there? The
turnkey? No. The sheriff? No. They are marks left by the city missionary and Christian philanthropist
in recognition of that gospel by which the world is to be regenerated or never saved at all.

I wish they would get some other name for that--the Tombs--for it is the cleanest prison I
ever saw. But the great want of that prison and of all others is sunshine. God's light is a
purifier. You cannot expect reformation where you brood over a man with perpetual midnight.
Oh that some Howard or Elizabeth Fry would cry through all the dungeons of the earth, "Let
there be light!" I never heard of anybody being brought to God or reformed through darkness.
God Himself is light, and that which is most like God is most healthful and pure.

Saddened by this awful wreck of men and morals, we came along the corridors where the wives
stood weeping at the wicket-door of their husbands, and parents over their lost children. It
was a very sad place. There were some men I was surprised to find there--men whom I had seen
in other places, in holy places, in consecrated places.

We came out into the sunlight after that, and found ourselves very soon in the art-gallery
at Twenty-third street. That was my second visit. Mr. Kensett, the great artist, recently died,
and six hundred and fifty of his pictures are now on exhibition. In contrast with the dark
prison scene, how beautiful the canvas! Mr. Kensett had an irresistible way of calling trees
and rocks and waters into his pictures. He only beckoned and they came. Once come, he pinioned
them for ever. Why, that man could paint a breeze on the water, so it almost wet your face
with the spray. So restful are his pictures you feel after seeing them as though for half a
day you had been sprawled under a tree in July weather, summered through and through.

Thirty of such pictures he painted each year in one hundred and twenty days, and then died--quickly
and unwarned, dropping his magician's wand, to be picked up never. I wondered if he was ready,
and if the God whom he had often met amid the moss on the sea-cliffs and in the offing was
the God who pardoned sin and by His grace saves painter and boor. The Lord bless the unappreciated
artists; they do a glorious work for God and the world, but for the most part live in penury,
and the brightest color on their palette is crimson with their own blood.

May the time hasten when the Frenchmen who put on canvas their Cupids poorly clad, and the
Germans who hang up homely Dutch babies in the arms of the Virgin Mary and call them Madonnas,
shall be overruled by the artists who, like Kensett, make their canvas a psalm of praise to
the Lord of the winds and the waters!

I stepped across the way into the Young Men's Christian Association of New York, with its reading-rooms
and library and gymnasium and bath-rooms, all means of grace--a place that proposes to charm
young men from places of sin by making religion attractive. It is a palace for the Lord--the
pride of New York, or ought to be; I do not believe it really is, but it ought to be. It is
fifty churches with its arms of Christian usefulness stretched out toward the young men.

If a young man come in mentally worn out, it gives him dumb-bells, parallel bars and a bowling-alley
with no rum at either end of it. If physically worsted, it rests him amid pictures and books
and newspapers. If a young man come in wanting something for the soul, there are the Bible-classes,
prayer-meetings and preaching of the gospel.

Religion wears no monk's cowl in that place, no hair shirt, no spiked sandals, but the floor
and the ceiling and the lounges and the tables and the cheerful attendants seem to say: "Her
ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace."

I never saw a more beautiful scene in any public building than on one of these bright sofas,
fit for any parlor in New York, where lay a weary, plain, exhausted man resting--sound asleep.

Another triumph of Christianity that building is--a Christianity that is erecting lighthouses
on all the coasts, and planting its batteries on every hill-top, and spreading its banquets
all the world over.

Well, with these reflections I started for Brooklyn. It was just after six o'clock, and tired
New York was going home. Street cars and ferries all crowded. Going home! Some to bright places;
to be lovingly greeted and warmed and fed and rested. Others to places dark and uncomely; but
as I sat down in my own home I could not help thinking of the three spectacles. I had seen
during the day Sin, in its shame; Art, in its beauty; Religion, in its work of love. God give
repentance to the first, wider appreciation to the second, and universal conquest to the third!

CHAPTER LI.

MANAHACHTANIENKS.

We should like to tell so many of our readers as have survived the pronunciation of the above
word that the Indians first called the site on which New York was built Manahachtanienks. The
translation of it is, "The place where they all got drunk." Most uncomplimentary title; We
are glad that it has been changed; for though New York has several thousand unlicensed grogshops,
we consider the name inappropriate, although, if intemperance continues to increase as rapidly
for the next hundred years as during the last twenty years, the time will come when New York
may appropriately take its old Indian nomenclature.

Old-time New York is being rapidly forgotten, and it may be well to revive some historical
facts. At an expense of three thousand dollars a year men with guide-book in hand go through
the pyramids of Egypt and the picture-galleries of Rome and the ruins of Pompeii, when they
have never seen the strange and historical scenes at home.

We advise the people who live in Brooklyn, Jersey City and up-town New York to go on an exploration.

Go to No. 1 Broadway and remember that George Washington and Lord Cornwallis once lived there.

Go to the United States Treasury, on Wall Street, and remember that in front of it used to
stand a pillory and a whipping-post.

In a building that stood where the United States Treasury stands, General Washington was installed
as President. In the open balcony he stood with silver buckles and powdered hair, in dress
of dark silk velvet. (People in those days dressed more than we moderns. Think of James Buchanan
or General Grant inaugurated with hair and shoes fixed up like that!)

Go to the corner of Pearl and Broad streets, and remember that was the scene of Washington's
farewell to the officers with whom he had been so long associated.

Go to Canal street, and remember it was so called because it once was literally a canal.

The electric telegraph was born in the steeple of the old Dutch Church, now the New York post-office--that
is, Benjamin Franklin made there his first experiments in electricity. When the other denominations
charge the Dutch Church with being slow, they do not know that the world got its lightning
out of one of its church steeples.

Washington Irving was born in William street, halfway between John and Fulton. "Knickerbocker"
was considered very saucy; but if any man ever had a right to say mirthful things about New
York, it was Washington Irving, who was born there. At the corner of Varick and Charlton streets
was a house in which Washington, John Adams and Aaron Burr resided.

George Whitefield preached at the corner of Beekman and Nassau streets.

But why particularize, when there is not a block or a house on the great thoroughfare which
has not been the scene of a tragedy, a fortune ruined, a reputation sacrificed, an agony suffered
or a soul lost?

CHAPTER LII.

A DIP IN THE SEA.

Shakespeare has been fiercely mauled by the critics for confusion of metaphor in speaking of
taking up "arms against a sea of troubles." The smart fellows say, How could a man take "arms
against a sea?" In other words, it is not possible to shoot the Pacific Ocean. But what Shakespeare
suggests is, this jocund morning, being done all around the coast from Florida to Newfoundland,
especial regiments going out from Cape May, Long Branch, East Hampton, Newport and Nahant;
ten thousand bathers, with hands thrown into the air, "taking up arms against the sea." But
the old giant has only to roll over once on his bed of seaweed, and all this attacking host
are flung prostrate upon the beach.

The sensation of sea-bathing is about the same everywhere. First you have the work of putting
on the appropriate dress, sometimes wet and chill from the previous bathing. You get into the
garments cautiously, touching them at as few points as possible, your face askew, and with
a swift draft of breath through your front teeth, punctuating the final lodgment of each sleeve
and fold with a spasmodic "Oh!" Then, having placed your watch where no villainous straggler
may be induced to examine it to see whether he can get to the depot in time for the next train,
you issue forth ingloriously, your head down in consciousness that you are cutting a sorry
figure before the world. Barefoot as a mendicant, your hair disheveled in the wind, the stripes
of your clothes strongly suggestive of Sing Sing, your appearance a caricature of humankind,
you wander up and down the beach a creature that the land is evidently trying to shake off
and the sea is unwilling to take. But you are consoled by the fact that all the rest are as
mean and forlorn-looking as yourself; and so you wade in, over foot-top, unto the knee, and
waist deep. The water is icy-cold, so that your teeth chatter and your frame quakes, until
you make a bold dive; and in a moment you and the sea are good friends, and you are not certain
whether you have surrendered to the ocean or the ocean has surrendered to you.

At this point begin the raptures of bathing. You have left the world on the beach, and are
caught up in the arms of experiences that you never feel on land. If you are far enough out,
the breaking wave curves over you like a roof inlaid and prismatic, bending down on the other
side of you in layers of chalk and drifts of snow, and the lightning flash of the foam ends
in the thunder of the falling wave. You fling aside from your arms, as worthless, amethyst
and emerald and chrysoprase. Your ears are filled with the halo of sporting elements, and your
eyes with all tints and tinges and double-dyes and liquid emblazonment. You leap and shout
and clap your hands, and tell the billows to come on, and in excess of glee greet persons that
you never saw before and never will again, and never want to, and act so wildly that others
would think you demented but that they also are as fully let loose; so that if there be one
imbecile there is a whole asylum of lunatics.

It is astonishing how many sounds mingle in the water: the faint squall of the affrighted child,
the shrill shriek of the lady just introduced to the uproarious hilarities, the souse of the
diver, the snort of the half-strangled, the clear giggle of maidens, the hoarse bellow of swamped
obesity, the whine of the convalescent invalid, the yell of unmixed delight, the te-hee and
squeak of the city exquisite learning how to laugh out loud, the splash of the brine, the cachinnation
of a band of harmless savages, the stun of the surge on your right ear, the hiss of the surf,
the saturnalia of the elements; while overpowering all other sounds are the orchestral harmonics
of the sea, which roll on through the ages, all shells, all winds, all caverns, all billows
heard in "the oratorio of the creation."

But while bathing, the ludicrous will often break through the grand. Swept hither and thither,
you find, moving in reel and cotillon, saraband and rigadoon and hornpipe, Quakers and Presbyterians
who are down on the dance. Your sparse clothing feels the stress of the waves, and you think
what an awful thing it would be if the girdle should burst or a button break, and you should
have, out of respect to the feelings of others, to go up the beach sidewise or backward or
on your hands and knees.

Close beside you, in the surf, is a judge of the Court of Appeals, with a garment on that looks
like his grandmother's night-gown just lifted from the wash-tub and not yet wrung out. On the
other side is a maiden with a twenty-five-cent straw hat on a head that ordinarily sports a
hundred dollars' worth of millinery. Yonder is a doctor of divinity with his head in the sand
and his feet beating the air, traveling heavenward, while his right hand clutches his wife's
foot, as much as to say, "My feet are useless in this emergency; give me the benefit of yours."

Now a stronger wave, for which none are ready, dashes in, and with it tumble ashore, in one
great wreck of humanity, small craft and large, stout hulk and swift clipper, helm first, topsail
down, forestay-sail in tatters, keel up, everything gone to pieces in the swash of the surges.

Oh, the glee of sea-bathing! It rouses the apathetic. It upsets the supercilious and pragmatical.
It is balsamic for mental wounds. It is a tonic for those who need strength, and an anodyne
for those who require soothing, and a febrifuge for those who want their blood cooled; a filling
up for minds pumped dry, a breviary for the superstitious with endless matins and vespers,
and to the Christian an apocalyptic vision where the morning sun gilds the waters, and there
is spread before him "a sea of glass mingled with fire." "Thy way, O God, is in the sea, and
thy path in the great waters!"

CHAPTER LIII.

HARD SHELL CONSIDERATIONS.

The plumage of the robin red-breast, the mottled sides of the Saranac trout, the upholstery
of a spider's web, the waist of the wasp fashionably small without tight lacing, the lustrous
eye of the gazelle, the ganglia of the star-fish, have been discoursed upon; but it is left
to us, fagged out from a long ramble, to sit down on a log and celebrate the admirable qualities
of a turtle. We refer not to the curious architecture of its house--ribbed, plated, jointed,
carapace and plastron divinely fashioned--but to its instincts, worthy almost of being called
mental and moral qualities.

The tortoise is wiser than many people we wot of, in the fact that he knows when to keep his
head in his shell. No sooner did we just now appear on the edge of the wood than this animal
of the order Testudinata modestly withdrew. He knew he was no match for us. But how many of
the human race are in the habit of projecting their heads into things for which they have no
fittedness! They thrust themselves into discussions where they are almost sure to get trod
on. They will dispute about vertebrae with Cuvier, or metaphysics with William Hamilton, or
paintings with Ruskin, or medicine with Doctor Rush, and attempt to sting Professor Jaeger
to death with his own insects. The first and last important lesson for such persons to learn
is, like this animal at our foot, to shut up their shell. If they could see how, in the case
of this roadside tortoise, at our appearance the carapace suddenly came down on the plastron,
or, in other words, how the upper bone snapped against the lower bone, they might become as
wise as this reptile.

We admire also the turtle's capacity of being at home everywhere. He carries with him his parlor,
nursery, kitchen, bed-chamber and bathroom. Would that we all had an equal faculty of domestication!
In such a beautiful world, and with so many comfortable surroundings, we ought to feel at home
in any place we are called to be. While we cannot, like the tortoise, carry our house on our
back, we are better off than he, for by the right culture of a contented spirit we may make
the sky itself the mottled shell of our residence, and the horizon all around us shall be the
place where the carapace shuts down on the plastron.

We admire still more the tortoise's determination to right itself. By way of experiment, turn
it upside down, and then go off a piece to see it regain its position. Now, there is nothing
when put upon its back which has such little prospect of getting to its feet again as this
animal. It has no hands to push with and nothing against which to brace its feet, and one would
think that a turtle once upside down would be upside down for ever. But put on its back, it
keeps on scrabbling till it is right side up. We would like to pick up this animal from the
dust and put it down on Broadway, if men passing by would learn from it never to stop exertion,
even when overthrown. You cannot by commercial disasters be more thoroughly flat on your back
than five minutes ago was this poor thing; but see it yonder nimbly making for the bushes.
Vanderbilt or Jay Gould may treat you as we did the tortoise a few moments ago. But do not
lie still, discouraged. Make an effort to get up. Throw your feet out, first in one direction
and then in another. Scrabble!

We find from this day's roadside observation that the turtle uses its head before it does its
feet: in other words, it looks around before it moves. You never catch a turtle doing anything
without previous careful inspection. We would, all of us, do better if we always looked before
we leaped. It is easier to get into trouble than to get out. Better have goods weighed before
we buy them. Better know where a road comes out before we start on it. We caught one hundred
flies in our sitting-room yesterday because they sacrificed all their caution to a love of
molasses. Better use your brain before you do your hands and feet. Before starting, the turtle
always sticks its head out of its shell.

But tortoises die. They sometimes last two hundred years. We read that one of them outlived
seven bishops. They have a quiet life and no wear and tear upon their nervous system. Yet they,
after a while, notwithstanding all their glow travel, reach the end of their journey. For the
last time they draw their head inside their shell and shut out the world for ever. But notwithstanding
the useful thoughts they suggest while living, they are of still more worth when dead. We fashion
their bodies into soup and their carapace into combs for the hair, and tinged drops for the
ear, and bracelets for the wrist. One of Delmonico's soup tureens is waiting for the hero we
celebrate, and Tiffany for his eight plates of bone. Will we be as useful after we are dead?
Some men are thrown aside like a turtle-shell crushed by a cart-wheel; but others, by deeds
done or words spoken, are useful long after they quit life, their example an encouragement,
their memory a banquet. He who helps build an asylum or gives healthful and cultured starting
to a young man may twenty years after his decease be doing more for the world than during his
residence upon it. Stephen Girard and George Peabody are of more use to the race than when
Philadelphia and London saw them.

But we must get up off this log, for the ante are crawling over us, and the bull-frogs croak
as though the night were coming on. The evening star hangs its lantern at the door of the night
to light the tired day to rest. The wild roses in the thicket are breathing vespers at an altar
cushioned with moss, while the fire-flies are kindling their dim lamps in the cathedral of
the woods. The evening dew on strings of fern is counting its beads in prayer. The "Whip-poor-will"
takes up its notes of complaint, making us wonder on our way home what "Will" it was that in
boyhood maltreated the ancestors of this species of birds, whether William Wordsworth, or William
Cowper, or William Shakspeare, so that the feathered descendants keep through all the forests,
year after year, demanding for the cruel perpetrator a sound threshing, forgetting the Bryant
that praised them and the Tennyson that petted them and the Jean Ingelow who throws them crumbs,
in their anxiety to have some one whip poor Will.

CHAPTER LIV.

WISEMAN, HEAVYASBRICKS AND QUIZZLE.

We had muffins that night. Indeed, we always had either muffins or waffles when Governor Wiseman
was at tea. The reason for this choice of food was that a muffin or a waffle seemed just suited
to the size of Wiseman's paragraphs of conversation. In other words, a muffin lasted him about
as long as any one subject of discourse; and when the muffin was done, the subject was done.

We never knew why he was called governor, for he certainly never ruled over any State, but
perhaps it was his wise look that got him the name. He never laughed; had his round spectacles
far down on the end of his nose, so that he could see as far into his plate as any man that
ever sat at our tea-table. When he talked, the conversation was all on his side. He considered
himself oracular on most subjects. You had but to ask him a question, and without lifting his
head, his eye vibrating from fork to muffin, he would go on till he had said all he knew on
that theme. We did not invite him to our house more than once in about three months, for too
much of a good thing is a bad thing.

At the same sitting we always had our young friend Fred Quizzle. He did not know much, but
he was mighty in asking questions. So when we had Governor Wiseman, the well, we had Quizzle,
the pump.

Fred was long and thin and jerky, and you never knew just where he would put his foot. Indeed,
he was not certain himself. He was thoroughly illogical, and the question he asked would sometimes
seem quite foreign to the subject being discoursed upon. His legs were crooked and reminded
you of interrogation points, and his arms were interrogations, and his neck was an interrogation,
while his eyes had a very inquisitive look.

Fred Quizzle did not talk until over two years of age, notwithstanding all his parents' exertions
toward getting him to say "papa" and "mamma." After his parents had made up their minds that
he would never talk at all, he one day rose from his block houses, looked into his father's
eyes, and cried out, "How?" as if inquiring in what manner he had found his way into this world.
His parent, outraged at the child's choice of an adverb for his first expression instead of
a noun masculine or a noun feminine indicative of filial affection, proceeded to chastise the
youngster, when Fred Quizzle cried out for his second, "Why?" as though inquiring the cause
of such hasty punishment.

This early propensity for asking questions grew on him till at twenty-three years of age he
was a prodigy in this respect. So when we had Governor Wiseman we also had Fred Quizzle, the
former to discourse, the latter to start him and keep him going.

Doctor Heavyasbricks was generally present at the same interview. We took the doctor as a sort
of sedative. After a season of hard work and nervous excitement, Doctor Heavyasbricks had a
quieting influence upon us. There was no lightning in his disposition. He was a great laugher,
but never at any recent merriment. It took a long while for him to understand a joke. Indeed,
if it were subtle or elaborate, he never understood it. But give the doctor, when in good health,
a plain pun or repartee, and let him have a day or two to think over it, and he would come
in with uproarious merriment that well-nigh would choke him to death, if the paroxysm happened
to take him with his mouth full of muffins.

When at our table, the time not positively occupied in mastication he employed in looking first
at Quizzle, the interlocutor, and then at Governor Wiseman, the responding oracle.

Quizzle.--How have you, Governor Wiseman, kept yourself in such robust health so long a time?

Wiseman.--By never trifling with it, sir. I never eat muffins too hot. This one, you see, has
had some time to cool. Besides, when I am at all disordered, I immediately send for the doctor.

There are books proposing that we all become our own medical attendant. Whenever we are seized
with any sort of physical disorder, we are to take down some volume in homeopathy, allopathy,
hydropathy, and running our finger along the index, alight upon the malady that may be afflicting
us. We shall find in the same page the name of the disease and the remedy. Thus: chapped hands--glycerine;
cold--squills; lumbago--mustard-plasters; nervous excitement--valerian; sleeplessness--Dover's
powders.

This may be very well for slight ailments, but we have attended more funerals of people who
were their own doctor than obsequies of any other sort. In your inexperience you will be apt
to get the wrong remedy. Look out for the agriculturist who farms by book, neglecting the counsel
of his long-experienced neighbors. He will have poor turnips and starveling wheat, and kill
his fields with undue apportionments of guano and bonedust. Look out just as much for the patient
who in the worship of some "pathy" blindly adheres to a favorite hygienic volume, rejecting
in important cases medical admonition.

In ordinary cases the best doctor you can have is mother or grandmother, who has piloted through
the rocks of infantile disease a whole family. She has salve for almost everything, and knows
how to bind a wound or cool an inflammation. But if mother be dead or you are afflicted with
a maternal ancestor that never knew anything practical, and never ill, better in severe cases
have the doctor right away. You say that it is expensive to do that, while a book on the treatment
of diseases will cost you only a dollar and a half. I reply that in the end it is very expensive
for an inexperienced man to be his own doctor; for in addition to the price of the book there
are the undertaker's expenses.

Some of the younger persons at the table laughed at the closing sentence of Wiseman, when Doctor
Heavyasbricks looked up, put down his knife and said: "My young friends, what are you laughing
at? I see no cause of merriment in the phrase 'undertaker's expenses.' It seems to me to be
a sad business. When I think of the scenes amid which an undertaker moves, I feel more like
tears than hilarity."

Quizzle.--If you are opposed, Governor Wiseman, to one's being his own doctor, what do you
think of every man's being his own lawyer?

Wiseman.--I think just as badly of that.

Books setting forth forms for deeds, mortgages, notes, and contracts, are no doubt valuable.
It should be a part of every young man's education to know something of these. We cannot for
the small business transactions of life be hunting up the "attorney-at-law" or the village
squire. But economy in the transfer of property or in the making of wills is sometimes a permanent
disaster. There are so many quirks in the law, so many hiding-places for scamps, so many modes
of twisting phraseology, so many decisions, precedents and rulings, so many John Does who have
brought suits against Richard Roes, that you had better in all important business matters seek
out an honest lawyer.

"There are none such!" cries out Quizzle.

Why, where have you lived? There are as many honest men in the legal profession as in any other,
and rogues more than enough in all professions. Many a farmer, going down to attend court in
the county-seat, takes a load of produce to the market, carefully putting the specked apples
at the bottom of the barrel, and hiding among the fresh ones the egg which some discouraged
hen after five weeks of "setting" had abandoned, and having secured the sale of his produce
and lost his suit in the "Court of Common Pleas," has come home denouncing the scoundrelism
of attorneys.

You shall find plenty of honest lawyers if you really need them; and in matters involving large
interests you had better employ them.

Especially avoid the mistake of making your own "last will and testament" unless you have great
legal skillfulness. Better leave no will at all than one inefficiently constructed. The "Orphans'
Court" could tell many a tragedy of property distributed adverse to the intention of the testator.
You save twenty to a hundred dollars from your counsel by writing your own will, and your heirs
pay ten thousand dollars to lawyers in disputes over it. Perhaps those whom you have wished
especially to favor will get the least of your estate, and a relative against whom you always
had especial dislike will get the most, and your charities will be apportioned differently
from what you anticipated--a hundred dollars to the Bible Society, and three thousand to the
"hook and ladder company."

Quizzle.--Do you not think, governor (to go back to the subject from which we wandered), that
your good spirits have had much to do with your good health?

Wiseman.--No doubt. I see no reason why, because I am advancing in years, I should become melancholy.

One of the heartiest things I have seen of late is the letter of Rev. Dr. Dowling as he retires
from active work in the ministry. He hands over his work to the younger brethren without sigh,
or groan, or regret. He sees the sun is quite far down in the west, and he feels like hanging
up his scythe in the first apple tree he comes to. Our opinion is that he has made a little
mistake in the time of day, and that while he thinks it is about half-past five in the afternoon,
it is only about three. I guess his watch is out of order, and that he has been led to think
it later than it really is. But when we remember how much good he has done, we will not begrudge
him his rest either here or hereafter.

At any rate, taking the doctor's cheerful valedictory for a text, I might preach a little bit
of a sermon on the best way of getting old. Do not be fretted because you have to come to spectacles.
While glasses look premature on a young man's nose, they are an adornment on an octogenarian's
face. Besides that, when your eyesight is poor, you miss seeing a great many unpleasant things
that youngsters are obliged to look at.

Do not be worried because your ear is becoming dull. In that way you escape being bored with
many of the foolish things that are said. If the gates of sound keep out some of the music,
they also keep out much of the discord. If the hair be getting thin, it takes less time to
comb it, and then it is not all the time falling down over your eyes; or if it be getting white,
I think that color is quite as respectable as any other: that is the color of the snow, and
of the blossoms, and of the clouds, and of angelic habiliments.

Do not worry because the time comes on when you must go into the next world. It is only a better
room, with finer pictures, brighter society and sweeter music. Robert McCheyne, and John Knox,
and Harriet Newell, and Mrs. Hemans, and John Milton, and Martin Luther will be good enough
company for the most of us. The cornshocks standing in the fields to-day will not sigh dismally
when the buskers leap over the fence, and throwing their arms around the stack, swing it to
the ground. It is only to take the golden ear from the husk. Death to the aged Christian is
only husking-time, and then the load goes in from the frosts to the garner.

My congratulations to those who are nearly done with the nuisances of this world. Give your
staff to your little grandson to ride horse on. You are going to be young again, and you will
have no need of crutches. May the clouds around the setting sun be golden, and such as to lead
the "weather-wise" to prophesy a dear morning!

Quizzle.--But, Governor Wiseman, does it not give you a little uneasiness in this day of so
much talk about cremation as to what will become of your body after you leave this sphere?

At this point Doctor Heavyasbricks wiped his spectacles, as though he could not see well, and
interrupted the conversation by saying, "Cremation! Cremation! What's that?" Sitting at the
head of the table, I explained that it was the reduction of the deceased human body through
fire into ashes to be preserved in an urn. "Ah! ah!" said Doctor Heavyasbricks, "I had the
idea, from the sound of that word 'cremation,' it must be something connected with cream. I
will take a little more of that delicious bovine liquid in my tea, if you please," said the
doctor as he passed his cup toward the urn, adding, to the lady of the house, "I hope that
urn you have your hand on has nothing to do with cremation." This explanation having been made,
Governor Wiseman proceeded to answer the question of Quizzle:

No; I have no uneasiness about my body after I have left it. The idea you speak of will never
be carried out. I know that the papers are ardently discussing whether or not it will be best
to burn the bodies of the dead, instead of burying them. Scientific journals contend that our
cemeteries are the means of unhealthy exhalations, and that cremation is the only safe way
of disposing of the departed. Some have advocated the chemical reduction of the physical system.

I have, as yet, been unable to throw myself into a mood sufficiently scientific to appreciate
this proposal. It seems to me partly horrible and partly ludicrous. I think that the dead populations
of the world are really the most quiet and unharmful. They make no war upon us, and we need
make no war upon them. I am very certain that all the damage we shall ever do this world, will
be while we are animate. It is not the dead people that are hard to manage, but the living.
Some whistle to keep their courage up while going along by graveyards; I whistle while moving
among the wide awake. Before attempting this barbaric disposal of the human form as a sanitary
improvement, it would be better to clear the streets and "commons" of our cities of their pestiferous
surroundings. Try your cremation on the dogs and cats with extinct animation.

We think Greenwood is healthier than Broadway, and Laurel Hill than Chestnut street, Père la
Chaise than Champs Elysées. Urns, with ashes scientifically prepared, may look very well in
Madras or Pekin, but not in a Christian country. Not having been able to shake off the Bible
notions about Christian burial, we adhere to the mode that was observed when devout men carried
Stephen to his burial. Better not come around here with your chemical apparatus for the reduction
of the human body. I give fair warning that if your philosopher attempts such a process on
my bones, and I am of the same way of thinking as now, he will be sorry for it.

But I have no fear that I shall thus be desecrated by my surviving friends. I have more fear
of epitaphs. I do not wonder that people have sometimes dictated the inscription on their own
tombstones when I see what inappropriate lines are chiseled on many a slab. There needs to
be a reformation in epitaphiology.

People often ask me for appropriate inscriptions for the graves of their dead. They tell the
virtues of the father, or wife, or child, and want me to put in compressed shape all that catalogue
of excellences.

Of course I fail in the attempt. The story of a lifetime cannot be chiseled by the stone-cutter
on the side of a marble slab. But it is not a rare thing to go a few months after by the sacred
spot and find that the bereft friends, unable to get from others an epitaph sufficiently eulogistic,
have put their own brain and heart to work and composed a rhyme. Now, the most unfit sphere
on earth for an inexperienced mind to exercise the poetic faculty is in epitaphiology. It does
very well in copy-books, but it is most unfair to blot the resting-place of the dead with unskilled
poetic scribble. It seems to me that the owners of cemeteries and graveyards should keep in
their own hand the right to refuse inappropriate and ludicrous epitaph.

Nine-tenths of those who think they can write respectable poetry are mistaken. I do not say
that poesy has passed from the earth, but it does seem as if the fountain Hippocrene had been
drained off to run a saw-mill. It is safe to say that most of the home-made poetry of graveyards
is an offence to God and man.

One would have thought that the New Hampshire village would have risen in mob to prevent the
inscription that was really placed on one of its tombstones descriptive of a man who had lost
his life at the foot of a vicious mare on the way to brook:

  "As this man was leading her to drink
  She kick'd and kill'd him quicker'n a wink."

One would have thought that even conservative New Jersey would have been in rebellion at a
child's epitaph which in a village of that State reads thus:

  "She was not smart, she was not fair,
    But hearts with grief for her are swellin';
  All empty stands her little chair:
    She died of eatin' watermelon."

Let not such discretions be allowed in hallowed places. Let not poetizers practice on the tombstone.
My uniform advice to all those who want acceptable and suggestive epitaph is, Take a passage
of Scripture. That will never wear out. From generation to generation it will bring down upon
all visitors a holy hush; and if before that stone has crumbled the day comes for waking up
of all the graveyard sleepers, the very words chiseled on the marble may be the ones that shall
ring from the trumpet of the archangel.

While the governor was buttering another muffin, and, according to the dietetic principle a
little while ago announced, allowing it sufficiently to cool off, he continued the subject
already opened by saying: I keep well by allowing hardly anything to trouble me, and by looking
on the bright side of everything. One half of the people fret themselves to death.

Four months ago the air was full of evil prophecies. If a man believed one half he saw in the
newspapers, he must have felt that this world was a failure, not paying more than ten cents
on a dollar. To one good prophet like Isaiah or Ezekiel we had a thousand Balaams, each mounted
on his appropriate nag.

First came the fearful announcement that in consequence of the financial depression we would
have bread-riots innumerable and great slaughter. But where have been your riots? There was
here and there a swinging of shillalahs, and a few broken heads which would probably have got
broken anyhow; but the men who made the disturbance were found to be lounging vagabonds who
never worked even when they had a chance.

Prophecy was also made that there would be a general starvation. We do not believe that in
the United States there have been twenty sober people famished in the last year. Aware of the
unusual stress upon the poor, the hand of charity has been more active and full than ever;
and though many have been denied their accustomed luxuries, there has been bread for all.

Weather prophets also promised us a winter of unusual severity. They knew it from the amount
of investment the squirrels had made in winter stock, and from the superabundance of wool on
the sheep's back, and the lavishness of the dog's hair. Are the liars ready to confess their
fault? The boys have found but little chance to use their skates, and I think the sheep-shearing
of the flocks on celestial pasture-fields must have been omitted, judging from the small amount
of snowy fleece that has fallen through the air. I have not had on my big mittens but once
or twice, and my long-ago frost-bitten left ear has not demanded an extra pinching. To make
up for the lack of fuel on the hearth, the great brass handiron of the sun has been kept unusually
bright and hot. And yesterday we heard the horn of the south wind telling that the flowery
bands of spring are on the way up from Florida.

The necessity for retrenchment has blessed the whole land. Many of us have learned how to make
a thousand dollars do what fifteen hundred dollars--

Quizzle broke in at the first opportunity and said, "No doubt, governor, it is easy for you
to be placid, for everything has gone well with you since you started life, whereas my mother
died when I was little, and I was kicked and cuffed about by a step-mother whose name I cannot
bear to hear."

Ha! ha! said Governor Wiseman. It is the old story of step-mothers. I don't believe they are
any worse than other people, taking the average. I have often wondered why it is that the novels
and romances always make the step-mother turn out so very badly. She always dresses too much
and bangs the children. The authors, if writing out of their own experience, must have had
a very hard time.

In society it has become a proverb: "Cruel as a step-mother." I am disposed, however, to think
that, while there may be marked exceptions, step-mothers are the most self-sacrificing beings
in all the world. They come into the family scrutinized by the household and the relatives
of the one who used to occupy the motherly position. Neighborly busybodies meet the children
on the street and sigh over them and ask them how their new mother treats them. The wardrobe
of the youngsters comes under the severe inspection of outsiders.

The child, haying been taught that the lady of the household is "nothing but a step-mother,"
screams at the least chastisement, knowing that the neighbors' window is up and this will be
a good way of making publication. That is called cruelty which is only a most reasonable, moderate
and Christian spanking. What a job she has in navigating a whole nursery of somebody else's
children through mumps, measles, whooping-cough and chicken-pox! One of the things that I rejoice
over in life is that it is impossible that I ever become a step-mother. In many cases she has
the largest possible toil for the least reward.

Blessed be the Lord who setteth the solitary in families that there are glorious exceptions!
The new mother comes to the new home, and the children gather the first day around her as the
natural protector. They never know the difference between the first and second mother. They
seem like two verses of the same hymn, two days of the summer, two strokes of the same bell,
two blessings from the same God.

She is watchful all night long over the sick little one, bathing the brow and banishing the
scare of the feverish dream. After a while those children will rise up to do her honor; and
when her work is done, she will go up to get the large reward that awaits a faithful, great-hearted
Christian step-mother in the land where the neighbors all mind their own business.

CHAPTER LV.

A LAYER OF WAFFLES.

Several months had passed along since we had enjoyed the society of Governor Wiseman, Doctor
Heavyasbricks and Fred Quizzle. At our especial call they had come again.

The evening air was redolent with waffles baked in irons that had given them the square imprint
which has come down through the ages as the only orthodox pattern.

No sooner had our friends seated themselves at the tea-table than--

Quizzle began: I see, Governor Wiseman, that the races have just come off in England. What
do you think of horse-racing?

Wiseman.--That has become a very important question for every moralist to answer. I see that
last week England took carriage and horses and went out to Epsom Downs to see the Derby races.
The race was won by Sir George Frederick; that is the name of the successful horse. All the
particulars come by telegraph. There is much now being done for the turf in this country as
well as in England, and these horses are improved year by year. I wonder if the race of men
who frequent these entertainments are as much improved as the horses? I like horses very much,
but I like men better. So far as we can judge, the horses are getting the best part of these
exercises, for they never bet, and always come home sober. If the horses continue to come up
as much as they have, and our sporting friends continue to go down in the same ratio, by an
inevitable law of progression we shall after a while have two men going round the course neck
and neck, while Dexter and Sir George Frederick are on the judges' stand deciding which man
is the winner.

Quizzle.--But do you not, Governor Wiseman, believe in out-door sports and recreations?

Yes, said the governor, but it ought to be something that helps a man as well as the brute.
I prefer those recreations that are good both for a man's body and soul. We want our entire
nature developed.

Two thousand people one morning waited at the depot in Albany for the arrival of the remains
of the great pugilist, Heenan. Then they covered the coffin with immortelles. No wonder they
felt badly. The poor fellow's work was done. He had broken the last nose. He had knocked out
the last tooth. He had bunged up the last eye. He had at last himself thrown up the sponge.
The dead hero belonged to the aristocracy of hard-hitters. If I remember rightly, he drew the
first blood in the conflict with one who afterward became one of the rulers of the nation--the
Honorable John Morrissey, member of Congress of the United States and chief gambler at Saratoga.

There is just now an attempt at the glorification of muscle. The man who can row the swiftest,
or strike a ball the farthest, or drop the strongest wrestler is coming to be of more importance.
Strong muscle is a grand thing to have, but everything depends on how you use it. If Heenan
had become a Christian, he would have made a capital professor in Polemic Theology. If the
Harvard or Yale student shall come in from the boat-race and apply his athletic strength to
rowing the world out of the breakers, we say "All hail!" to him. The more physical force a
man has, the better; but if Samson finds nothing more useful to do than carrying of gate-posts,
his strong muscle is only a nuisance.

By all means let us culture physical energy. Let there be more gymnasiums in our colleges and
theological seminaries. Let the student know how to wield oar and bat, and in good boyish wrestle
see who is the strongest. The health of mental and spiritual work often depends on physical
health. If I were not opposed to betting, I would lay a wager that I can tell from the book
column in any of the newspapers or magazines of the land the condition of each critic's liver
and spleen at the time of his writing.

A very prominent literary man apologized to me the other day for his merciless attack on one
of my books, saying that he felt miserable that morning and must pitch into something; and
my book being the first one on the table, he pitched into that. Our health decides our style
of work. If this world is to be taken for God, we want more sanctified muscle. The man who
comes to his Christian work having had sound sleep the night before, and the result of roast
beef rare in his organism, can do almost anything. Luther was not obliged to nurse his appetite
with any plantation bitters, but was ready for the coarsest diet, even the "Diet of Worms."

But while I advocate all sports, and exercises, and modes of life that improve the physical
organism, I have no respect for bone, and nerve, and muscle in the abstract. Health is a fine
harp, but I want to know what tune you are going to play on it. I have not one daisy to put
on the grave of a dead pugilist or mere boat-racer, but all the garlands I can twist for the
tomb of the man who serves God, though he be as physically weak as Richard Baxter, whose ailments
were almost as many as his books, and they numbered forty.

At this last sentence the company at the table, forgetful of the presence of Doctor Heavyasbricks,
showed some disposition at good humor, when the doctor's brows lifted in surprise, and he observed
that he thought a man with forty ailments was a painful spectacle, and ought to be calculated
to depress a tea-table rather than exhilarate it.

"But, Governor Wiseman," said Quizzle, "do you not think that it is possible to combine physical,
mental and spiritual recreations?"

Oh yes, replied the governor; I like this new mode of mingling religion with summer pleasures.
Soon the Methodists will be shaking out their tents and packing their lunch-baskets and buying
their railroad and steamboat tickets for the camp-meeting grounds. Martha's Vineyard, Round
Lake, Ocean Grove and Sea Cliff will soon mingle psalms and prayers with the voice of surf
and forest. Rev. Doctor J.H. Vincent, the silver trumpet of Sabbath-schoolism, is marshaling
a meeting for the banks of Chautauqua Lake which will probably be the grandest religious picnic
ever held since the five thousand sat down on the grass and had a surplus of provision to take
home to those who were too stupid to go. From the arrangement being made for that meeting in
August, I judge there will be so much consecrated enthusiasm that there may be danger that
some morning, as the sun strikes gloriously through the ascending mist of Chautauqua Lake,
our friends may all go up in a chariot of fire, leaving our Sunday-schools in a bereft condition.
If they do go up in that way, may their mantle or their straw hat fall this way!

Why not have all our churches and denominations take a summer airing? The breath of the pine
woods or a wrestle with the waters would put an end to everything like morbid religion. One
reason why the apostles had such healthy theology is that they went-a-fishing. We would like
to see the day when we will have Presbyterian camp-meetings, and Episcopalian camp-meetings,
and Baptist camp-meetings, and Congregational camp-meetings, or, what would be still better,
when, forgetful of all minor distinctions, we could have a church universal camp-meeting. I
would like to help plant the tent-pole for such a convocation.

Quizzle.--Do you not think, governor, that there are inexpensive modes of recreation which
are quite as good as those that absorb large means?

Yes, said the governor; we need to cut the coat according to our cloth. When I see that the
Prince of Wales is three hundred thousand dollars in debt, notwithstanding his enormous income,
I am forcibly reminded that it is not the amount of money a man gets that makes him well off,
but the margin between the income and the outgo. The young man who while he makes a dollar
spends a dollar and one cent is on the sure road either to bankruptcy or the penitentiary.

Next to the evil of living beyond one's means is that of spending all one's income. There are
multitudes who are sailing so near shore that a slight wind in the wrong direction founders
them. They get on well while the times are usual and the wages promptly paid; but a panic or
a short period of sickness, and they drop helpless. Many a father has gone with his family
in a fine carriage drawn by a spanking team till he came up to his grave; then he lay down,
and his children have got out of the carriage, and not only been compelled to walk, but to
go barefoot. Against parsimony and niggardliness I proclaim war; but with the same sentence
I condemn those who make a grand splash while they live, leaving their families in destitution
when they die.

Quizzle.--Where, governor, do you expect to recreate this coming summer?

Wiseman.--Have not yet made up my mind. The question is coming up in all our households as
to the best mode of vacation. We shall all need rest. The first thing to do is to measure the
length of your purse; you cannot make a short purse reach around Saratoga and the White Mountains.
There may be as much health, good cheer and recuperation in a country farmhouse where the cows
come up every night and yield milk without any chalk in it.

What the people of our cities need is quiet. What the people of the country need is sightseeing.
Let the mountains come to New York and New York go to the mountains. The nearest I ever get
to heaven in this world is lying flat down on my back under a tree, looking up through the
branches, five miles off from a post-office or a telegraph station. But this would be torture
to others.

Independent of what others do or say, let us in the selection of summer recreations study our
own temperament and finances. It does not pay to spend so much money in July and August that
you have to go pinched and half mad the rest of the year. The healthiest recreations do not
cost much. In boyhood, with a string and a crooked pin attached to it, I fished up more fun
from the mill-pond than last summer with a five-dollar apparatus I caught among the Franconia
Mountains.

There is a great area of enjoyment within the circumference of one dollar if you only know
how to make the circuit. More depends upon ourselves than upon the affluence of our surroundings.
If you are compelled to stay home all summer, you may be as happy as though you went away.
The enjoyment of the first of July, when I go off, is surpassed by nothing but the first of
September, when I come home.

There being a slight pause in the conversation, Doctor Heavyasbricks woke gradually up and
began to move his lips and to show strong symptoms of intention to ask for himself a question.
He said: I have been attending the anniversaries in New York, and find that they are about
dead. Wiseman, can you tell me what killed them?

Governor Wiseman replied: It is a great pity that the anniversaries are dead. They once lived
a robust life, but began some fifteen years ago to languish, and have finally expired. To the
appropriate question, What killed them? I answer, Peregrination was one of the causes. There
never has been any such place for the anniversaries as the Broadway Tabernacle. It was large
and social and central. When that place was torn down, the anniversaries began their travels.
Going some morning out of the warm sunshine into some cathedral-looking place, they got the
chills, and under the dark stained glass everything looked blue. In the afternoon they would
enter some great square hall where everything was formal.

It is almost impossible to have a genial and successful meeting in a square hall. When in former
days the country pastor said to his congregation, "Meet me at the New York anniversaries,"
they all knew where to go; but after the old Broadway Tabernacle went down, the aforesaid congregation
might have looked in five or six places and not found their minister. The New York anniversaries
died on the street between the old Tabernacle and St. Paul's Methodist Cathedral.

Prolix reports also helped to kill the patient. Nothing which was not in its nature immortal
could have survived these. The secretary would read till he got out of wind, and would then
say that the remainder of the report would be found in the printed copies in the pews. The
speakers following had the burden of galvanizing an exhausted meeting, and the Christian man
who attended the anniversary on retiring that evening had the nightmare in the shape of a portly
secretary sitting astride his chest reading from a huge scroll of documents.

Diluted Christian oratory also helped to kill the anniversaries. The men whom we heard in our
boyhood on the Broadway platform believed in a whole Bible, and felt that if the gospel did
not save the world nothing ever would; consequently, they spoke in blood-red earnestness and
made the place quake with their enthusiasm. There came afterward a weak-kneed stock of ministers
who thought that part of the Bible was true, if they were not very much mistaken, and that,
on the whole, religion was a good thing for most people, certainly if they had weak constitutions,
and that man could be easily saved if we could get the phrenologist to fix up his head, and
the gymnasium to develop his muscle, and the minister to coax him out of his indiscretions.
Well, the anniversaries could not live on pap and confectionery, and so they died for lack
of strong meat.

But the day of resurrection will come. Mark that! The tide of Bible evangelism will come up
again. We may be dead, but our children will see it. New York will be thronged with men and
women who will come up once a year to count the sheaves of harvest, and in some great building
thronged from the platform to the vestibule an aroused Christian audience will applaud the
news, just received by telegraph, of a nation born in a day, and sing with more power than
when Thomas Hastings used to act as precentor:

  "The year of jubilee has come;
  Return, ye ransom'd sinners, home."

Quizzle.--You speak, governor, of the ruinous effect of prolixity in religious service. How
long ought a public service continue?

Wiseman.--There is much discussion in the papers as to how long or short sermons and prayers
ought to be. Some say a discourse ought to last thirty minutes, and others forty, and others
an hour, and prayers should be three minutes long, or five, or fifteen. You might as well discuss
how long a frock-coat ought to be, or how many ounces of food a man ought to eat. In the one
case, everything depends upon the man's size; in the other, everything on the capacity of his
stomach. A sermon or a prayer ought to go on as long as it is of any profit. If it is doing
no good, the sermon is half an hour too long, though it take only thirty minutes. If the audience
cough, or fidget, or shuffle their feet, you had better stop praying. There is no excuse, for
a man's talking or praying too long if he have good eyesight and hearing.

But suppose a man have his sermon written and before him. You say he must go through with it?
Oh no. Let him skip a few leaves. Better sacrifice three or four sheets of sermon-paper than
sacrifice the interest of your hearers. But it is a silly thing for a man in a prayer-meeting
or pulpit to stop merely because a certain number of minutes have expired while the interest
is deepening--absurd as a hunter on the track of a roebuck, and within two minutes of bringing
down its antlers, stopping because his wife said that at six o'clock precisely he must be home
to supper. Keep on hunting till your ammunition gives out.

Still, we must all admit that the danger is on the side of prolixity. The most interesting
prayers we ever hear are by new converts, who say everything they have to say and break down
in one minute. There are men who, from the way they begin their supplications, indicate a long
siege. They first pray you into a good frame, and then pray you out. They take literally what
Paul meant to be figurative: "Pray without ceasing."

Quizzle.--I see there was no lack of interest when the brewers' convention met the other day
in Boston, and that in their longest session the attention did not flag.

Wiseman.--Yes; I see that speeches were made on the beneficial use of fermented liquors. The
announcement was made that during the year 8,910,823 barrels of the precious stuff had been
manufactured. I suppose that while the convention was there Boston must have smelt like one
great ale-pitcher. The delegates were invited to visit the suburbs of the city. Strange that
nobody thought of inviting them to visit the cemeteries and graveyards, especially the potter's
field, where thousands of their victims are buried. Perhaps you are in sympathy with these
brewers, and say that if people would take beer instead of alcohol drunkenness would cease.
But for the vast majority who drink, beer is only introductory to something stronger. It is
only one carriage in the same funeral. Do not spell it b-e-e-r, but spell it b-i-e-r. May the
lightnings of heaven strike and consume all the breweries from river Penobscot to the Golden Horn!

Quizzle.--I see, governor, that you were last week in Washington. How do things look there?

Wiseman.--Very well. The general appearance of our national capital never changes. It is always
just as far from the Senate-chamber to the White House; indeed, so far that many of our great
men have never been able to travel it. There are the usual number of petitioners for governmental
patronage hanging around the hotels and the congressional lobbies. They are willing to take
almost anything they can get, from minister to Spain to village postmaster. They come in with
the same kind of carpet-bags, look stupid and anxious for several days, and having borrowed
money enough from the member from their district to pay their fare, take the cars for home,
denouncing the administration and the ungratefulness of republics.

I think that the two houses of Congress are the best and most capable of any almost ever assembled.
Of course there is a dearth of great men. Only here and there a Senator or Representative you
ever before heard of. Indeed, the nuisances of our national council in other days were the
great men who took, in making great speeches, the time that ought to have been spent in attending
to business. We all know that it was eight or ten "honorable" bloats of the last thirty years
who made our chief international troubles.

Our Congress is made up mostly of practical every-day men. They have no speeches to make, and
no past political reputation to nurse, and no national fame to achieve. I like the new crop
of statesmen better than the old, although it is a shorter crop. They do not drink so much
rum, and not so large a proportion of them will die of delirium tremens. They may not have
such resounding names as some of their predecessors, but I prefer a Congress of ordinary men
to a group of Senators and Representatives overawed and led about by five or six overgrown,
political Brobdingnagians.

While in Washington we had a startling occurrence. A young man in high society shot another
young man, who fell dead instantly.

I wonder that there is not more havoc with human life in this day, when it is getting so popular
to carry firearms. Most of our young men, and many of our boys, do not feel themselves in tune
unless they have a pistol accompaniment. Men are locked up or fined if found with daggers or
slung-shot upon their persons, but revolvers go free. There is not half so much danger from
knife as pistol. The former may let the victim escape minus a good large slice, but the latter
is apt to drop him dead. On the frontiers, or engaged in police duty, firearms may be necessary;
but in the ordinary walk of life pistols are, to say the least, a superfluity. Better empty
your pockets of these dangerous weapons, and see that your sons do not carry them. In all the
ordinary walks of life an honest countenance and orderly behavior are sufficient defence. You
had better stop going into society where you must always be ready to shoot somebody.

But do not think, my dear Fred, that I am opposed to everything because I have this evening
spoken against so many different things. I cannot take the part of those who pride themselves
in hurling a stout No against everything.

A friend called my attention to the fact that Sanballat wanted to hold consultation with Nehemiah
in the plain of O-no. That is the place where more people stay, to-day, than in any other.
They are always protesting, throwing doubt on grand undertakings; and while you are in the
mountain of O-yes, they spend their time on the plain of O-no. In the harness of society they
are breeching-straps, good for nothing but to hold back.

You propose to call a minister. All the indications are that he is the right man. Nine-tenths
of the congregation are united in his favor. The matter is put to vote. The vast majority say
"Ay!" the handful of opponents responded "O no!"

You propose to build a new church. About the site, the choice of architect, the upholstery,
the plumbing and the day of dedication there is almost a unanimity. You hope that the crooked
sticks will all lie still, and that the congregation will move in solid phalanx. But not so.
Sanballat sends for Nehemiah, proposing to meet him in the plain of O-no.

Some men were born backward, and have been going that way ever since. Opposition to everything
has become chronic. The only way they feel comfortable is when harnessed with the face toward
the whiffletree and their back to the end of the shafts. They may set down their name in the
hotel register as living in Boston, Chicago, Savannah or Brooklyn, but they really have been
spending all their lives on the plain of O-no. There let them be buried with their face toward
the west, for in that way they will lie more comfortably, as other people are buried with their
face to the east. Do not impose upon them by putting them in the majority. O-no!

We rejoice that there seems more liberality among good men, and that they have made up their
minds to let each one work in his own way. The scalping-knives are being dulled.

The cheerfulness and good humor which have this year characterized our church courts is remarkable
and in strong contrast with the old-time ecclesiastical fights which shook synods and conferences.
Religious controversies always have been the most bitter of all controversies; and when ministers
do fight, they fight like vengeance. Once a church court visiting a place would not only spend
much of their own time in sharp contention, but would leave the religious community to continue
the quarrel after adjournment. Now they have a time of good cheer while in convention, and
leave only one dispute behind them among the families, and that arising from the fact that
each one claims it had the best ministers and elders at their house. Contention is a child
of the darkness, peace the daughter of the light. The only help for a cow's hollow horn is
a gimlet-hole bored through it, and the best way to cure religious combatants is to let more
gospel light through their antlers.

As we sat at the head of the table interested in all that was going on, and saw Governor Wiseman
with his honorable name, and Quizzle and Heavyasbricks with their unattractive titles, we thought
of the affliction of an awkward or ill-omened name.

When there are so many pleasant names by which children may be called, what right has a parent
to place on his child's head a disadvantage at the start? Worse than the gauntlet of measles
and whooping-cough and mumps which the little ones have to run is this parental outrage.

What a struggle in life that child will have who has been baptized Jedekiah or Mehitabel! If
a child is "called after" some one living, let that one be past mid-life and of such temperament
that there shall be no danger of his becoming an absconder and a cheat. As far as possible
let the name given be short, so that in the course of a lifetime there be not too many weeks
or months taken up in the mere act of signature. The burdens of life are heavy enough without
putting upon any one the extra weight of too much nomenclature. It is a sad thing when an infant
has two bachelor uncles, both rich and with outrageous names, for the baby will have to take
both titles, and that is enough to make a case of infant mortality.

Quizzle.--You seem to me, governor, to be more sprightly at every interview.

Well, that is so, but I do not know how long it will last; stout people like myself often go
the quickest.

There is a constant sympathy expressed by robust people for those of slight physical constitution.
I think the sympathy ought to turn in the opposite direction. It is the delicate people who
escape the most fearful disorders, and in three cases out of four live the longest. These gigantic
structures are almost always reckless of health. They say, "Nothing hurts me," and so they
stand in draughts, and go out into the night air to cool off, and eat crabs at midnight, and
doff their flannels in April, and carelessly get their feet wet.

But the delicate people are shy of peril. They know that disease has been fishing for them
for twenty years, and they keep away from the hook. No trout can be caught if he sees the shadow
of the sportsman on the brook. These people whom everybody expects to die, live on most tenaciously.

I know of a young lady who evidently married a very wealthy man of eighty-five years on the
ground he was very delicate, and with reference to her one-third. But the aged invalid is so
careful of his health, and the young wife so reckless of hers, that it is now uncertain whether
she will inherit his store-houses or he inherit her wedding-rings.

Health and longevity depend more upon caution and intelligent management of one's self than
upon original physical outfit. Paul's advice to the sheriff is appropriate to people in all
occupations: "Do thyself no harm!"

Besides that, said the governor, I have moved and settled in very comfortable quarters since
I was at this table before. The house I have moved in is not a better house, but somehow I
feel more contented.

Most of our households are quieted after the great annual upsetting. The last carpet is tacked
down. The strings that were scattered along the floor have been rolled up in a ball. We begin
to know the turns in the stairway. Things are settling down, and we shall soon feel at home
in our new residence. If it is a better house than we had, do not let us be too proud of the
door-plate, nor worship too ardently the fine cornice, nor have any idea that superb surroundings
are going to make us any happier than we were in the old house.

Set not your affections on luxurious upholstery and spacious drawing-room. Be grateful and
be humble.

If the house is not as large nor in as good neighborhood as the one you formerly occupied,
make the best of it. It is astonishing what a good time you may have in a small room. Your
present neighbors are just as kind as those you left, if you only knew them. Do not go around
your house sticking up your nose at the small pantry, and the ugly mantel-pieces, and the low
ceiling. It is a better place than your divine Master occupied, and to say the least you are
no better than He. If you are a Christian, you are on your way to a King's mansion, and you
are now only stopping a little in the porter's lodge at the gate. Go down in the dark lanes
of the city and see how much poorer off many of your fellow-citizens are. If the heart be right,
the home will be right.

CHAPTER LVI.

FRIDAY EVENING.

Our friend Churchill was a great man for religious meetings. As he shoved back from our tea-table
he said, "I must be off to church."

Then he yawned as though he expected to have a dull time, and asked me why it was that religious
meetings were often so very insipid and that many people went to them merely as a matter of
duty. Without waiting for me to give my opinion, he said he thought that there was a sombre
hue given to such meetings that was killing and in a sort of soliloquy continued:

There is one thing Satan does well. He is good at stating the discouraging side. He knows how
to fish for obstacles, and every time brings up his net full. Do not let us help him in his
work. If you have anything to say in prayer-meeting that is disheartening, may you forget your
speech! Tell us something on the bright side.

I know a Christian man who did something outrageously wrong. Some one said to me: "Why do you
not expose him?" I replied: "That is the devil's work and it will be thoroughly done. If there
is anything good about him, we would rather speak of that."

Give us no sermons or newspaper articles that are depressing. We know all that before you start;
amid the greatest disheartenments there are hopeful things that may be said. While the Mediterranean
corn-ship was going to smash, Paul told the crew to "Be of good cheer." We like apple trees
because, though they are not handsome, they have bright blossoms and good fruit, but we despise
weeping willows because they never do anything but cry.

On a dark day do not go around closing the window-shutters. The world is dark enough without
your making it more so. Is there anybody in the room who has a match? Please then strike it.
There is only one kind of champagne that we temperance folks can take, and that is encouraging
remark. It is a stimulus, and what makes it better than all other kinds of champagne is it
leaves no headache.

I said to him, I think religious meetings have been improved in the last few years. One of
the grandest results of the Fulton street prayer-meeting is the fact that all the devotional
services of the country have been revolutionized. The tap of the bell of that historical prayer-meeting
has shortened the prayers and exhortations of the church universal.

But since it has become the custom to throw open the meetings for remark and exhortation, there
has been a jubilee among the religious bores who wander around pestering the churches. We have
two or three outsiders who come about once in six weeks into our prayer-meeting; and if they
can get a chance to speak, they damage all the interest. They talk long and loud in proportion
as they have nothing to say. They empty on us several bushels of "ohs" and "ahs." But they
seldom get a chance, for we never throw the meeting open when we see they are there. We make
such a close hedge of hymns and prayers that they cannot break into the garden.

One of them we are free of because, one night, seeing him wiggle-waggle in his seat as if about
to rise, we sent an elder to him to say that his remarks were not acceptable. The elder blushed
and halted a little when we gave him the mission, but setting his teeth together he started
for the offensive brother, leaned over the back of the pew and discharged the duty. We have
never seen that brother since, but once in the street, and then he was looking the other way.

By what right such men go about in ecclesiastical vagabondism to spoil the peace of devotional
meetings it is impossible to tell. Either that nuisance must be abated or we must cease to
"throw open" our prayer-meetings for exhortation.

A few words about the uses of a week-night service. Many Christians do not appreciate it; indeed,
it is a great waste of time, unless there be some positive advantage gained.

The French nation at one time tried having a Sabbath only once in ten days. The intelligent
Christian finds he needs a Sabbath every three or four days, and so builds a brief one on the
shore of a week-day in the shape of an extra religious service. He gets grace on Sabbath to
bridge the chasm of worldliness between that and the next Sabbath, but finds the arch of the
bridge very great, and so runs up a pier midway to help sustain the pressure.

There are one hundred and sixty-eight hours in a week, and but two hours of public religious
service on Sabbath. What chance have two hours in a battle with one hundred and sixty-eight?

A week-night meeting allows church membership utterance. A minister cannot know how to preach
unless in a conference meeting he finds the religious state of the people. He must feel the
pulse before giving the medicine, otherwise he will not know whether it ought to be an anodyne
or a stimulant. Every Christian ought to have something to say. Every man is a walking eternity.
The plainest man has Omnipotence to defend him, Omniscience to watch him, infinite Goodness
to provide for him. The tamest religious experience has in it poems, tragedies, histories,
Iliads, Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained. Ought not such a one have something to say?

If you were ever in the army you know what it is to see an officer on horseback dash swiftly
past carrying a dispatch. You wondered as he went what the news was. Was the army to advance,
or was an enemy coming?

So every Christian carries a dispatch from God to the world. Let him ride swiftly to deliver
it. The army is to advance and the enemy is coming. Go out and fulfill your mission. You may
have had a letter committed to your care, and after some days you find it in one of your pockets,
you forgot to deliver it. Great was your chagrin when you found that it pertained to some sickness
or trouble. God gives every man a letter of warning or invitation to carry, and what will be
your chagrin in the judgment to find that you nave forgotten it!

A week-night meeting widens the pulpit till all the people can stand on it. Such a service
tests one's piety. No credit for going to church on Sabbath. Places of amusement are all closed,
and there is no money to be made. But week-nights every kind of temptation and opportunity
spreads before a man, and if he goes to the praying circle he must give up these things. The
man who goes to the weekly service regularly through moonlight and pitch darkness, through
good walking and slush ankle-deep, will in the book of judgment find it set down to his credit.
He will have a better seat in heaven than the man who went only when the walking was good,
and the weather comfortable, and the services attractive, and his health perfect. That service
which costs nothing God accounts as nothing.

A week-night service thrusts religion in the secularities of the week. It is as much as to
say, "This is God's Wednesday, or God's Thursday, or God's Friday, or God's week." You would
not give much for a property the possession of which you could have only one-seventh of the
time, and God does not want that man whose services he can have only on Sabbath. If you paid
full wages to a man and found out that six-sevenths of the time he was serving a rival house,
you would be indignant; and the man who takes God's goodness and gives six-sevenths of his
time to the world, the flesh and the devil is an abomination to the Lord. The whole week ought
to be a temple of seven rooms dedicated to God. You may, if you will, make one room the holy
of holies, but let all the temple be consecrate.

The week-night service gives additional opportunity of religious culture, and we find it so
difficult to do right and be right that we cannot afford to miss any opportunity. Such a service
is a lunch between the Sabbath meals, and if we do not take it we get weak and faint. A truth
coming to us then ought to be especially effective.

If you are on a railroad train, and stop at the depot, and a boy comes in with a telegram,
all the passengers lean forward and wonder if it is for them. It may be news from home. It
must be urgent or it would not be brought there. Now, if while we are rushing on in the whirl
of every-day excitement, a message of God meets us, it must be an urgent and important message.
If God speaks to us in a meeting mid-week, it is because there is something that needs to be
said before next Sunday.

SABBATH EVENING

TEA-TABLE.

CHAPTER LVII.

THE SABBATH EVENING TEA-TABLE.

When this evening comes we do not have any less on our table because it is a sacred day, but
a little more. On other evenings we have in our dining-hall three of the gas-burners lighted,
but on Sabbath evening we have four. We try to have the conversation cheerfully religious.

After the children are sleepy we do not keep them up to recite the "Larger Catechism." During
summer vacation, when we have no evening service to attend at church, we sometimes have a few
chapters of a Christian book read or a column of a Christian newspaper, or if any one has an
essay on any religious theme, we hear that.

We tarry long after the tea has got cold. We do not care if the things are not cleared off
till next morning. If any one has a perplexing passage of Scripture to explain, we gather all
the lights possible on that subject. We send up stairs for concordance and Bible dictionary.
It may be ten o'clock at night before the group is dispersed from the Sabbath evening tea-table.

Some of the chapters following may be considered as conversations condensed or as paragraphs
read. You will sometimes ascribe them to the host, at other times to the hostess, at other
times to the strangers within the gates.

Old Dominie Scattergood often came in on Sabbath evenings. He was too old to preach, and so
had much leisure. Now, an old minister is a great joy to us, especially if life has put sugar
rather than vinegar in his disposition. Dominie Scattergood had in his face and temper the
smiles of all the weddings he had ever solemnized, and in his hand-shaking all the hearty congratulations
that had ever been offered him.

His hair was as white as any snow-bank through which he had waded to meet his appointments.
He sympathized with every one, could swing from mood to mood very easily, and found the bridge
between laughter and tears a short one and soon crossed. He was like an orchard in October
after some of the frosts, the fruit so ripe and mellow that the least breeze would fill the
laps of the children. He ate scarcely anything at the tea-table, for you do not want to put
much fuel in an engine when it has nearly reached the depot. Old Dominie Scattergood gave his
entire time to religious discourse when he sat with us at the close of the Lord's day.

How calm and bright and restful the light that falls on the Sabbath evening tea-table! Blessed
be its memories for ever and ever! and Jessie, and De Witt, and May, and Edith, and Frank,
and the baby, and all the visitors, old and young, thick-haired and bald-headed, say Amen!

CHAPTER LVIII.

THE WARM HEART OF CHRIST.

The first night that old Dominie Scattergood sat at our tea-table, we asked him whether he
could make his religion work in the insignificant affairs of life, or whether he was accustomed
to apply his religion on a larger scale. The Dominie turned upon us like a day-dawn, and addressed
us as follows:

There is no warmer Bible phrase than this: "Touched with the feeling of our infirmities." The
Divine nature is so vast, and the human so small, that we are apt to think that they do not
touch each other at any point. We might have ever so many mishaps, the government at Washington
would not hear of them, and there are multitudes in Britain whose troubles Victoria never knows;
but there is a throne against which strike our most insignificant perplexities. What touches
us, touches Christ. What annoys us, annoys Christ. What robs us, robs Christ. He is the great
nerve-centre to which thrill all sensations which touch us who are his members.

He is touched with our physical infirmities. I do not mean that he merely sympathizes with
a patient in collapse of cholera, or in the delirium of a yellow fever, or in the anguish of
a broken back, or in all those annoyances that come from a disordered nervous condition. In
our excited American life sound nerves are a rarity. Human sympathy in the case I mention amounts
to nothing. Your friends laugh at you and say you have "the blues," or "the high strikes,"
or "the dumps," or "the fidgets." But Christ never laughs at the whims, the notions, the conceits,
the weaknesses, of the nervously disordered. Christ probably suffered in something like this
way, for He had lack of sleep, lack of rest, lack of right food, lack of shelter, and His temperament
was finely strung.

Chronic complaints, the rheumatism, the neuralgia, the dyspepsia, after a while cease to excite
human sympathy, but with Christ they never become an old story. He is as sympathetic as when
you felt the first twinge of inflamed muscle or the first pang of indigestion. When you cannot
sleep, Christ keeps awake with you. All the pains you ever had in your head are not equal to
the pains Christ had in His head. All the acute suffering you ever had in your feet is not
equal to the acute suffering Christ had in His feet. By His own hand He fashioned your every
bone, strung every nerve, grew every eyelash, set every tooth in its socket, and your every
physical disorder is patent to Him, and touches His sympathies.

He is also touched with the infirmities of our prayers. Nothing bothers the Christian more
than the imperfections of his prayers. His getting down on his knees seems to be the signal
for his thoughts to fly every whither. While praying about one thing he is thinking about another.
Could you ever keep your mind ten minutes on one supplication? I never could. While you are
praying, your store comes in, your kitchen comes in, your losses and gains come in. The minister
spreads his hands for prayer, and you put your head on the back of the pew in front, and travel
round the world in five minutes.

A brother rises in prayer-meeting to lead in supplication. After he has begun, the door slams,
and you peep through your fingers to see who is coming in. You say to yourself, "What a finely
expressed prayer, or what a blundering specimen! But how long he keeps on! Wish he would stop!
He prays for the world's conversion. I wonder how much he gives toward it? There! I don't think
I turned the gas down in the parlor! Wonder if Bridget has got home yet? Wonder if they have
thought to take that cake out of the oven? Oh what a fool I was to put my name on the back
of that note! Ought to have sold those goods for cash and not on credit!" And so you go on
tumbling over one thing after another until the gentleman closes his prayer with Amen! and
you lift up your head, saying, "There! I haven't prayed one bit. I am not a Christian!" Yes,
you are, if you have resisted the tendency. Christ knows how much you have resisted, and how
thoroughly we are disordered of sin, and He will pick out the one earnest petition from the
rubbish and answer it. To the very depth of His nature He sympathizes with the infirmity of
our prayers.

He is touched with the infirmity of our temper.

There are some who, notwithstanding all that is said or done to them can smile back. But many
of you are so constructed that if a man insults you, you either knock him down or wish you
could. While with all resolution and prayer you resist this, remember that Christ knows how
much you have been lied about, and misrepresented, and trod on. He knows that though you said
something that was hot, you kept back something that was ten times hotter. He takes into account
your explosive temperament. He knows that it requires more skill to drive a fiery span than
a tame roadster. He knows how hard you have put down the "brakes" and is touched with the feeling
of your infirmity.

Christ also sympathizes with our poor efforts at doing good.

Our work does not seem to amount to much. We teach a class, or distribute a bundle of tracts,
or preach a sermon, and we say, "Oh, if I had done it some other way!" Christ will make no
record of our bungling way, if we did the best we could. He will make record of our intention
and the earnestness of our attempt. We cannot get the attention of our class, or we break down
in our exhortation, or our sermon falls dead, and we go home disgusted, and sorry we tried
to speak, and feel Christ is afar off. Why, He is nearer than if we had succeeded, for He knows
that we need sympathy, and is touched with our infirmity.

It is comforting to know that it is not the learned and the great and the eloquent that Christ
seems to stand closest by. The "Swamp-angel" was a big gun, and made a stunning noise, but
it burst before it accomplished anything, while many an humble rifle helped decide the contest.
Christ made salve out of spittle to cure a blind man, and the humblest instrumentality may,
under God, cure the blindness of the soul. Blessed be God for the comfort of His gospel!

CHAPTER LIX.

SACRIFICING EVERYTHING.

Ourselves.--Dominie Scattergood, why did Christ tell the man inquiring about his soul to sell
all he had and give everything to the poor? Is it necessary for one to impoverish himself in
order to be a Christian?

The Dominie.--You mistake the purport of Christ's remark. He was not here teaching the importance
of benevolence, but the duty of self-conquest. That young man had an all absorbing love of
wealth. Money was his god, and Christ is not willing to occupy the throne conjointly with any
other deity. This was a case for what the doctors call heroic treatment. If a physician meet
a case of unimportant sickness, he prescribes a mild curative, but sometimes he comes to a
room where the case is almost desperate; ordinary medicine would not touch it. It is "kill
or cure," and he treats accordingly. This young man that Christ was medicating was such a case.
There did not seem much prospect, and He gives him this powerful dose, "Sell all that thou
hast and give to the poor!"

It does not follow that we must all do the same, any more than because belladonna or arsenic
is administered in one case of illness we should therefore all go to taking belladonna or arsenic.
Because one man in the hospital must have his arm amputated all the patients need not expect
amputation. The silliest thing that business-men could do would be to give all their property
away and turn their families into the street. The most Christian thing for you to do is to
invest your money in the best way possible, and out of your business, industriously carried
on, to contribute the largest possible percentage to the kingdom of God.

Still, we must admire the manner in which the Great Physician took the diagnosis of this man's
case and grappled it. We all need heroic spiritual treatment. We do not get well of sin because
we do not realize what a dire disease it is, and that we cannot cure it with a spiritual panacea,
a gentle antidote, a few grains of spiritual morphine, a mild moral corrective or a few drops
of peppermint on white sugar.

We want our pride killed, and we read an essay on that sweet grace of humility, and we go on
as proud as ever. The pleasant lozenge does not do the work. Rather let us set ourselves to
do that for Christ which is most oppugnant to our natural feelings. You do not take part in
prayer-meeting because you cannot pray like Edward Payson, or exhort like John Summerfield.
If you want to crush your pride, get up anyhow, though your knees knock together, and your
tongue catches fast, and you see some godless hearer in prayer-meeting laughing as though she
would burst.

Deal with your avarice in the same heroic style. Having heard the charitable cause presented,
at the first right impulse thrust your hand in your pocket where the money is, and pull it
out though it half kills you. Pull till it comes. Put it on the plate with an emphasis, and
turn your face away before you are tempted to take it back again. All your sweet contemplation
about benevolence will not touch your case. Heroic treatment or nothing!

In the same way destroy the vindictiveness of your nature. Treatises on Christian brotherhood
are not what you need. Select the man most disagreeable to you, and the one who has said the
hardest things about you. Go up and shake hands with him, and ask him how his family is, and
how his soul prospers. All your enmities will fly like a flock of quails at the bang of a rifle.

We treat our sins too politely. We ought to call them by their right names. Hatred to our neighbor
should not be called hard thoughts, but murder: "whoso hateth his brother is a murderer!" Sin
is abominable. It has tusks and claws, and venom in its bite, and death in its stroke. Mild
treatment will not do. It is loathsome, filthy and disgusting. If we bid a dog in gentle words
to go out of the house, he will lie down under the table. It wants a sharp voice and a determined
manner to make him clear out, and so sin is a vile cur that cannot be ejected by any conservative
policy. It must be kicked out!

Alas for the young man of the text! He refused Christ's word and went away to die, and there
are now those who cannot submit to Christ's command, and after fooling their time away with
moral elixirs suddenly relapse and perish. They might have been cured, but would not take the
medicine.

CHAPTER LX.

THE YOUNGSTERS HAVE LEFT.

The children after quitting the tea-table were too noisy for Sabbath night, and some things
were said at the table critical of their behavior, when old Dominie Scattergood dawned upon
the subject and said:

We expect too much of our children when they become Christians. Do not let us measure their
qualifications by our own bushel. We ought not to look for a gravity and deep appreciation
of eternal things such as we find in grown persons. We have seen old sheep in the pasture-field
look anxious and troubled because the lambs would frisk.

No doubt the children that were lifted by their mothers in Christ's arms, and got His blessing,
five minutes after He set them down were as full of romp as before they came to Him. The boy
that because he has become a Christian is disgusted with ball-playing, the little girl who
because she has given her heart to God has lost her interest in her waxen-doll, are morbid
and unhealthy. You ought not to set the life of a vivacious child to the tune of Old Hundred.

When the little ones come before you and apply for church membership, do not puzzle them with
big words, and expect large "experiences." It is now in the church as when the disciples of
old told the mothers not to bother Christ with their babes. As in some households the grown
people eat first, and the children have to wait till the second table, so there are persons
who talk as though God would have the grown people first sit down at His banquet; and if there
is anything over the little ones may come in for a share.

No, no! If the supply at the Lord's table were limited, He would let the children come in first
and the older ones go without, as a punishment for not having come in while they themselves
were children. If the wind is from the northeast, and the air is full of frost and snow, and
part of the flock must be left out on the mountains, let it be the old sheep, for they can
stand it better than the lambs. O Shepherd of Israel, crowd them all in before the coming of
the tempest!

Myself.--Dominie Scattergood, what do yow think of this discussion in the papers on the subject
of liturgies?

Scattergood.--I know there has been much talk of late about liturgies in the churches, and
whether or not audiences should take audible part in religious service. While others are discussing
that point, let me say that all the service of the Church ought to be responsive if not with
audible "Amen," and unanimous "Good Lord, deliver us," then with hearty outburst of soul.

Let not the prayer of him that conducts public service go up solitary and alone, but accompanied
by the heartfelt ejaculation of all the auditory. We sit down on a soft cushion, in a pew by
architectural skill arranged to fit the shape of our back, and are tempted to fall into unprofitable
reveries. Let the effort be on the part of every minister to make the prayer and the Scripture-reading
and the giving out of the hymn so emphatic that the audience cannot help but respond with all
the soul.

Let the minister, before going into the pulpit, look over the whole field and recall what are
the styles of bereavement in the congregation--whether they be widowhood, orphanage or childlessness;
what are the kinds of temporal loss his people may recently have suffered--whether in health,
in reputation or estate; and then get both his shoulders under these troubles, and in his prayer
give one earnest and tremendous lift, and there will be no dullness, no indifference, no lack
of multitudinous response.

The reason that congregations have their heads bobbing about in prayer-time is because the
officiating clergyman is apt to petition in the abstract. He who calls the troubles of his
people by their right names, and tenderly lays hold of the cancers of the souls before him,
will not lack in getting immediate heartfelt, if not audible, response.

While we have not as much interest in the agitated question of liturgies as would make us say
ten words about it, we are interested more than we can tell in the question, How shall the
officiating ministers, in all the churches, give so much point, and adaptedness, and vigor
and blood-red earnestness of soul to their public devotions as shall make all the people in
church feel that it is the struggle for their immortal life in which the pastor is engaged?
Whether it be in tones that strike the ear, or with a spiritual emphasis heard only in the
silent corridor of the heart, let all the people say Amen!

Myself.--What do you think, Dominie, about all this talk about sensationalism in the pulpit?

Scattergood.--As far as I can understand, it seems to be a war between stagnation and sensationalism,
and I dislike both.

I do not know which word is the worst. It is the national habit in literature and religion
to call that sensationalism which we ourselves cannot do. If an author write a book that will
not sell, he is apt to charge the books of the day which do succeed as being sensational. There
are a great many men who, in the world and the Church, are dead failures, who spend their time
in letting the public know that they are not sensationalists. The fact is that they never made
any stir while living, nor will they in dying, save as they rob the undertaker of his fees,
they not leaving enough to pay their dismission expenses.

I hate sensationalism in the pulpit so far as that word means the preaching of everything but
the gospel, but the simple fact is that whenever and wherever faith and repentance and heaven
and hell are proclaimed with emphasis there will be a sensation. The people in our great cities
are hungry for the old gospel of Christ. If our young men in the ministry want large audiences,
let them quit philosophizing, and hair-splitting, and botanizing, and without gloves take hold
of men's sins and troubles, and there will be no lack of hearers. Stagnation is worse than
sensationalism.

I have always noticed that just in proportion as a man cannot get along himself he is fearful
of some one else making an excitement. Last week a mud-turtle down by the brook opened its
shell and discoursed to a horse that was coming down to drink. The mud-turtle said to the horse:
"Just as I get sound asleep you are sure to come past and wake me up. We always used to have
a good quiet time down here in the swamp till you got in the habit of thumping along this way.
I am conservative and like to keep in my shell. I have been pastor of thirteen other mud-turtles,
and we always had peace until you came, and next week at our semi-annual meeting of mud-turtles
we shall either have you voted a nuisance or will talk it over in private, eight, or ten of
us, which will probably be the more prudent way." Then the mud-turtle's shell went shut with
a snap, at which the horse kicked up his heels as he turned to go up to the barn to be harnessed
to a load of corn that was ready for the market.

Let us all wake up and go to work. There are in the private membership of our churches and
in the ministry a great many men who are dead, but have never had the common decency to get
buried. With the harvest white and "lodging" for lack of a sickle, instead of lying under the
trees criticising the sweating reapers who are at work, let us throw off our own coat and go
out to see how good a swathe we can cut.

Myself.--You seem, Dominie Scattergood, though you have been preaching a great while, to be
very healthy and to have a sound throat.

Scattergood.--Yes; I don't know any reason why ministers should not be as well as other persons.
I have never had the ministers' sore throat, but have avoided it by the observance of two or
three rules which I commend to you of less experience. The drug stores are full of troches,
lozenges and compounds for speakers and singers. All these medicines have an important mission,
but how much better would it be to avoid the ills than to spend one's time in trying to cure them!

1. Speak naturally. Let not incompetent elocutionists or the barbarisms of custom give you
tones or enunciations at war with those that God implanted. Study the vocal instrument and
then play the best tune on it possible, but do not try to make a flute sound like a trumpet,
or a bagpipe do the work of a violin.

2. Remember that the throat and lungs were no more intended to speak with than the whole body.
If the vocal organs get red hot during a religious service, while the rest of the body does
not sympathize with them, there will be inflammation, irritation and decay. But if the man
shall, by appreciation of some great theme of time and eternity, go into it with all his body
and soul, there will be an equalization of the whole physical organism, and bronchitis will
not know whether to attack the speaker in his throat, right knee or left ankle, and while it
is deciding at what point to make assault the speaker will go scot-free. The man who besieges
an audience only with his throat attempts to take a castle with one gun, but he who comes at
them with head, eyes, hand, heart, feet, unlimbers against it a whole park of artillery. Then
Sebastopol is sure to be taken.

Myself.--I notice, Dominie, that your handwriting is not as good as your health. Your letter
in reply to my invitation to be here was so indistinct that I could not tell whether it was
an acceptance or a declinature.

Scattergood.--Well, I have not taken much care of my autograph. I know that the attempt has
been made to reduce handwriting to a science. Many persons have been busy in gathering the
signatures of celebrated men and women. A Scotchman, by the name of Watson, has paid seventy-five
thousand dollars for rare autographs. Rev. Dr. Sprague, of Albany, has a collection marvelous
for interest.

After we read an interesting book we want to see the author's face and his autograph. But there
is almost always a surprise or disappointment felt when for the first time we come upon the
handwriting of persons of whom we have heard or read much. We often find that the bold, dashing
nature sometimes wields a trembling pen, and that some man eminent for weakness has a defiant
penmanship that looks as if he wrote with a splinter of thunderbolt.

I admit that there are instances in which the character of the man decides the style of his
penmanship. Lord Byron's autograph was as reckless as its author. George Washington's signature
was a reflection of his dignity. The handwriting of Samuel Rogers was as smooth as his own
nature. Robespierre's fierce-looking autograph seems to have been written with the dagger of
a French revolution.

On the contrary, one's handwriting is often the antipodes of his character. An unreasonable
schoolmaster has often, by false instruction, cramped or ruined the pupil's chirography for
ever. If people only knew how a brutal pedagogue in the academy used to pull my ears while
learning to write, I should not be so often censured for my own miserable scribble. I defy
any boy to learn successfully to make "hooks and trammels" in his copy-book, or ever after
learn to trace a graceful calligraphy, if he had "old Talyor" bawling over him. I hope never
to meet that man this side of heaven, lest my memory of the long-ago past be too much for the
sense of ministerial propriety.

There are great varieties of circumstances that influence and decide the autograph. I have
no faith in the science of chirography. I could, from a pack of letters in one pigeon-hole,
put to rout the whole theory. I have come to the conclusion that he who judges of a man's character
by his penmanship makes a very poor guess. The boldest specimen of chirography I ever received
was from a man whose wife keeps him in perpetual tremor, he surrendering every time she looks
toward the broomstick.

Myself.--What do you think, Dominie, of the fact that laymen have begun to preach? and what
is your opinion of the work they are doing in Scotland?

For the first time in many a day the old Dominie grew sarcastic, and said:

What are we coming to? Get out your fire-engines. There is a conflagration. What work Messrs.
Moody, Sankey, Phillips, Bliss, Jacobs, Burnell, Durant and fifty other laymen have done. Wherever
they go they have large concourses of people, and powerful revivals of religion follow. Had
we not better appoint a meeting of conference or presbytery to overhaul these men who are saving
souls without license? No! What we want is ten thousand men just like them, coming up from
among the people, with no professional garb, and hearts hot with religious fervor, and bound
by no conventionalities or stereotyped notions about the way things ought to be done.

I have a sly suspicion that the layman who has for seven years given the most of his time to
the study of the truth is better prepared to preach the gospel than a man who has given that
length of time in theological seminaries to the study of what other people say about the Bible.
In other words, we like water just dipped from the spring, though handed in a gourd, rather
than water that has been standing a week in a silver pitcher.

After Calvin has twisted us one way, and Arminius has twisted us another, and we get our head
full of the old Andover and New Haven theological fights, and the difference between Ante-Nicene
Trinitarianism and Post-Nicene Trinitarianism, it is a luxury to meet some evangelist who can
tell us in our common mother-tongue of Him who came to seek and to save that which was lost.

I say let our learned institutions push theological education to its highest excellency, preparing
men for spheres which none but the cultured and scholarly are fit for, but somehow let us beat
the drum and gather a battalion of lay-workers. We have enough wise men to tell us about fishes,
about birds, about rocks, about stars--enough Leyden jars, enough telescopes, enough electric
batteries; but we have not more than one man where we ought to have a hundred to tell the story
of Christ and the soul.

Some cry out, "It is dangerous to have laymen take such prominent positions in the Church."
Dangerous to what? Our dignity, our prerogatives, our clerical rights? It is the same old story.
If we have a mill on the stream, we do not want some one else to build a mill on the same stream.
It will take the water off our wheel. But, blessed be God! the river of salvation is deep and
strong enough to grind corn for all nations.

If a pulpit is so weak that the wave of religious zeal on the part of the laity submerges it,
then let it go under. We cannot expect all other shipping to forsake the sea lest they run
down our craft. We want more watchmen on the wall, more sentinels at the gate, more recruits
for the field. Forward the whole Christian laity! Throw up no barrier to their advancement.
Do not hang the Church until dead by the neck with "red-tape."

I laughed outright, though I ought to have cried, when I read in one of our papers a statement
of the work of Moody and Sankey in Edinburgh, which statement closed with the luscious remark
that "Probably the Lord is blessing their work." I never saw a word put in more awkward and
forced and pitiable predicament than that word probably. While heaven and earth and hell have
recognized the stupendous work now going on in Scotland under God and through the instrumentality
of these American evangelists, a correspondent thinks that probably something has happened.

Oh how hard it is to acknowledge that men are doing good if they do not work in our way and
by our methods! One's heart must have got awfully twisted and near being damned who can look
on a great outpouring of the Holy Ghost and have any use for probabilities. The tendency is
even among Christians to depreciate that which goes on independent of themselves and in a way
oppugnant to their personal taste. People do not like those who do a thing which they themselves
have not been able to accomplish.

The first cry is, "The people converted are the lower population, and not the educated." We
wonder if five hundred souls brought to Christ from the "Cowgate" and "Coalhole," and made
kings and priests unto God, and at last seated on thrones so high they will not be able to
reach down with their foot to the crown of an earthly monarch, is not worth some consideration?

Then the cry is, "They will not hold out." Time only will show that. They are doing all they
can. You cannot expect them to hold out ten years in six weeks. The most faithful Christians
we have ever known were brought in through revivals, and the meanest, stingiest, dullest, hardest-to-get-on-with
Christians have joined when the church was dead.

When a candidate for admission comes before session in revival times, I ask him only seven
or eight questions; but when he comes during a cold state of religion, I ask him twenty questions,
and get the elders to ask him as many more. In other words, I have more faith in conversions
under special religious influence than under ordinary.

The best luck I ever had in fishing was when I dropped the net in the bay and brought up at
one haul twenty bluefish, with only three or four moss-bunkers, and the poorest luck I ever
had was when, after standing two hours in the soggy meadow with one hook on the line, I felt
I had a bite, and began to pull, more and more persuaded of the great size of the captive,
until I flung to the shore a snapping-turtle. As a gospel fisherman I would rather run the
risk of a large haul than of a solitary angling. I can soon sort out and throw overboard the
few moss-bunkers.

Oh for great awakenings all over Christendom!

We have had a drought so long we can stand a freshet. Let the Hudson and the Thames and the
Susquehanna rise and overflow the lowlands, and the earth be full of the knowledge of God as
the waters fill the seas. That time is hastening, probably!

CHAPTER LXI.

FAMILY PRAYERS.

Take first the statement that unless our children are saved in early life they probably never
will be. They who go over the twentieth year without Christ are apt to go all the way without
Him. Grace, like flower-seed, needs to be sown in spring. The first fifteen years of life,
and often the first six, decide the eternal destiny.

The first thing to do with a lamb is to put it in the arms of the Great Shepherd. Of course
we must observe natural laws. Give a child excessive meat diet, and it will grow up sensual,
and catechism three times a day, and sixty grains in each dose, won't prevent it. Talk much
in your child's presence about the fashions, and it will be fond of dress, notwithstanding
all your lectures on humility. Fill your house with gossip, and your children will tattle.
Culture them as much as you will, but give them plenty of money to spend, and they will go
to destruction.

But while we are to use common sense in every direction respecting a child, the first thing
is to strive for its conversion, and there is nothing more potent than family prayers. No child
ever gets over having heard parents pray for him. I had many sound threshings when I was a
boy (not as many as I ought to have had, for I was the last child and my parents let me off),
but the most memorable scene in my childhood was father and mother at morning and evening prayers.
I cannot forget it, for I used often to be squirming around on the floor and looking at them
while they were praying. Your son may go to the ends of the earth, and run through the whole
catalogue of transgression, but he will remember the family altar, and it will be a check,
and a call, and perhaps his redemption.

Family prayers are often of no use. Perhaps they are too hurried. We have so much before us
of the day's work that we must hustle the children together. We get half through the chapter
before the family are seated. We read as if we were reading for a wager. We drop on our knees,
are in the second or third sentence before they all get down. It is an express train, with
amen for the first depot. We rush for the hat and overcoat, and are on the way to the store,
leaving the impression that family prayers are a necessary nuisance, and we had better not
have had any gathering of the family at all. Better have given them a kiss all around; it would
have taken less time and would have been more acceptable to God and them.

Family prayers often fail in adaptedness. Do not read for the morning lesson a genealogical
chapter, or about Samson setting the foxes' tails on fire, or the prophecy about the horses,
black and red, and speckled, unless you explain why they were speckled. For all the good your
children get from such reading, you might as well have read a Chinese almanac. Rather give
the story of Jesus, and the children climbing into his arms, or the lad with the loaves and
fishes, or the Sea of Galilee dropping to sleep under Christ's lullaby.

Stop and ask questions. Make the exercise so interesting that little Johnny will stop playing
with his shoe-strings, and Jenny will quit rubbing the cat's fur the wrong way. Let the prayer
be pointed and made up of small words, and no wise information to the Lord about things He
knows without your telling Him. Let the children feel they are prayed for. Have a hymn if any
of you can sing. Let the season be spirited, appropriate and gladly solemn.

Family prayer also fails when the whole day is not in harmony with it. A family prayer, to
be worth anything, ought to be twenty-four hours long. It ought to give the pitch to all the
day's work and behavior. The day when we get thoroughly mad upsets the morning devotion. The
life must be in the same key with the devotion.

Family prayer is infinitely important. If you are a parent, and are not a professor of religion,
and do not feel able to compose a prayer, get some one of the many books that have been written,
put it down before you, and read prayers for the household. God has said that He will "pour
out His fury upon the family that call not upon His name."

Prayer for our children will be answered. My grandmother was a praying woman. My father's name
was David. One day, he and other members of the family started for a gay party. Grandmother
said: "Go, David, and enjoy yourself; but all the time you and your brothers and sisters are
there, I will be praying for you." They went, but did not have a very good time, knowing that
their mother was praying for them.

The next morning, grandmother heard loud weeping in the room below. She went down and found
her daughter crying violently. What was the matter? She was in anxiety about her soul--an anxiety
that found no relief short of the cross. Word came that David was at the barn in great agony.
Grandmother went and found him on the barn floor, praying for the life of his soul.

The news spread to the neighboring houses, and other parents became anxious about their children,
and the influence spread to the village of Somerville, and there was a great turning unto God;
and over two hundred souls, in one day, stood up in the village church to profess faith in
Christ. And it all started from my grandmother's prayer for her sons and daughters.

CHAPTER LXII.

CALL TO SAILORS.

One of the children asked us at the tea-table if we had ever preached at sea. We answered,
No! but we talked one Sabbath, mid-Atlantic, to the officers, crew and passengers of the steamship
"China." By the way, I have it as it was taken down at the time and afterward appeared in a
newspaper, and here is the extract:

No persons bound from New York to Liverpool ever had more cause for thanksgiving to God than
we. The sea so smooth, the ship so staunch, the companionship so agreeable, all the circumstances
so favorable. O Thou who holdest the winds in Thy fist, blessed be Thy glorious name for ever!

Englishmen, Costa Ricans, Germans, Spaniards, Japanese, Irishmen, Americans--gathered, never
to meet again till the throne of judgment is lifted--let us join hands to-day around the cross
of Jesus and calculate our prospect for eternity. A few moments ago we all had our sea-glasses
up watching the vessel that went by. "What is her name?" we all asked, and "Whither is she bound?"

We pass each other on the ocean of life to-day. We only catch a glimpse of each other. The
question is, "Whither are we bound? For harbor of light or realm of darkness?" As we decide
these questions, we decide everything.

No man gets to heaven by accident. If we arrive there, it will be because we turn the helm,
set the sail, watch the compass and stand on the "lookout" with reference to that destination.
There are many ways of being lost--only one way of being saved; Jesus Christ is the way. He
comes across the sea to-day, His feet on the glass of the wave, as on Galilee, His arm as strong,
His voice as soothing, His heart as warm. Whosoever will may have His comfort, His pardon,
His heaven.

Officers and crew of this ship, have you not often felt the need of divine help? In the hour
of storm and shipwreck, far away from your homes, have you not called for heavenly rescue?
The God who then heard thy prayer will hear thee now. Risk not your soul in the great future
without compass, or chart, or anchor, or helmsman. You will soon have furled your last sail,
and run up the last ratline, and weathered the last gale, and made the last voyage. What next?
Where then will be your home, who your companions, what your occupation?

Let us all thank God for this Sabbath which has come to us on the sea. How beautifully it bridges
the Atlantic! It hovers above every barque and brig and steamer, it speaks of a Jesus risen,
a grave conquered, a heaven open. It is the same old Sabbath that blessed our early days. It
is tropical in its luxuriance, but all its leaves are prayers, and all its blossoms praise.
Sabbath on the sea! How solemn! How suggestive! Let all its hours, on deck, in cabin, in forecastle,
be sacred.

Some of the old tunes that these sailors heard in boyhood times would sound well to-day floating
among the rigging. Try "Jesus, lover of my soul," or "Come, ye sinners, poor and needy," or
"There is a fountain filled with blood." As soon as they try those old hymns, the memory of
loved ones would come back again, and the familiar group of their childhood would gather, and
father would be there, and mother who gave them such good advice when they came to sea, and
sisters and brothers long since scattered and gone.

Some of you have been pursued by benedictions for many years. I care not how many knots an
hour you may glide along, the prayers once offered up for your welfare still keep up with you.
I care not on what shore you land, those benedictions stand there to greet you. They will capture
you yet for heaven. The prodigal after a while gets tired of the swine-herd and starts for
home, and the father comes out to greet him, and the old homestead rings with clapping cymbals,
and quick feet, and the clatter of a banquet. If the God of thy childhood days should accost
thee with forgiving mercy, this ship would be a Bethel, and your hammock to-night would be
the foot of the ladder down which the angels of God's love would come trooping.

Now, may the blessing of God come down upon officers and crew and passengers! Whatever our
partings, our losses, our mistakes, our disasters in life, let none of us miss heaven. On that
shore may we land amid the welcome of those who have gone before. They have long been waiting
our arrival, and are now ready to conduct us to the foot of the throne. Look, all ye voyagers
for eternity! Land ahead! Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.

What Paul said to the crew and passengers on the corn-ship of the Mediterranean is appropriate
here: "Now I exhort you to be of good cheer!" God fit us for the day when the archangel, with
one foot on the sea and the other on the land, shall swear by Him that liveth for ever and
ever that time shall be no longer!

CHAPTER LXIII.

JEHOSHAPHAT'S SHIPPING.

Your attention is called to a Bible incident that you may not have noticed. Jehoshaphat was
unfortunate with his shipping. He was about to start another vessel. The wicked men of Ahaziah
wanted to go aboard that vessel as sailors. Jehoshaphat refused to allow them to go, for the
reason that he did not want his own men to mingle with those vicious people.

In other words, he knew what you and I know very well, that it is never safe to go in the same
boat with the wicked. But there are various applications of that idea. We too often forget
it, and are not as wise as Jehoshaphat was when he refused to allow his men to be in companionship
in the same boat with the wicked men of Ahaziah.

The principle I stated is appropriate to the formation, in the first place, of all domestic
alliances. I have often known women who married men for the purpose of reforming them from
dissipated habits. I never knew one successful in the undertaking. Instead of the woman lifting
the man up, the man drags her down. This is inevitably the case. The greatest risk that one
ever undertakes is attempting the voyage of life in a boat in which the wicked sail; this remark
being most appropriate to the young persons who are in my presence. It is never safe to sail
with the sons of Ahaziah. The aged men around me will bear out the statement that I have made.
There is no exception to it.

The principle is just as true in regard to all business alliances. I know it is often the case
that men have not the choice of their worldly associations, but there are instances where they
may make their choice, and in that case I wish them to understand that it is never safe to
go in the same boat with the vicious. No man can afford to stand in associations where Christ
is maligned and scoffed at, or the things of eternity caricatured. Instead of your Christianizing
them, they will heathenize you. While you propose to lift them up, they will drag you down.
It is a sad thing when a man is obliged to stand in a business circle where men are deriding
the religion of the Lord Jesus Christ. For instance, rather than to be associated in business
circles with Frothinghamite infidelity, give me a first-class Mohammedan, or an unconverted
Chinese, or an unmixed Hottentot. There is no danger that they will draw me down to their religion.

If, therefore, you have a choice when you go out in the world as to whether you will be associated
in business circles with men who love God, or those who are hostile to the Christian religion,
you might better sacrifice some of your financial interests and go among the people of God
than risk the interests of your immortal soul.

Jehoshaphat knew it was unsafe for his men to go in one boat with the men of Ahaziah, and you
cannot afford to have business associations with those who despise God, and heed not His commandments.
I admit the fact that a great many men are forced into associations they despise, and there
are business circles in which we are compelled to go which we do not like, but if you have
a choice, see that you make an intelligent and safe one.

This principle is just as true in regard to social connections. Let no young man or woman go
in a social circle where the influences are vicious or hostile to the Christian religion. You
will begin by reproving their faults, and end by copying them. Sin is contagious. You go among
those who are profane, and you will be profane. You go among those who use impure language,
and you will use impure language. Go among those who are given to strong drink, and you will
inevitably become an inebriate. There is no exception to the rule. A man is no better than
the company he continually keeps.

It is always best to keep ourselves under Christian influences. It is not possible, if you
mingle in associations that are positively Christian, not to be made better men or women. The
Christian people with whom you associate may not be always talking their religion, but there
is something in the moral atmosphere that will be life to your soul. You choose out for your
most intimate associates eight or ten Christian people. You mingle in that association; you
take their counsel; you are guided by their example, and you live a useful life, and die a
happy death, and go to a blessed eternity. There is no possibility of mistaking it; there is
not an exception in all the universe or ages--not one.

For this reason I wish that Christians engage in more religious conversation. I do not really
think that Christian talk is of so high a type as it used to be. Some of you can look back
to your very early days and remember how the neighbors used to come in and talk by the hour
about Christ and heaven and their hopes of the eternal world. There has a great deal of that
gone out of fashion.

I suppose that if ten or fifteen of us should happen to come into a circle to spend the evening,
we would talk about the late presidential election, or the recent flurry in Wall street, and
about five hundred other things, and perhaps we would not talk any about Jesus Christ and our
hopes of heaven. That is not Christianity; that is heathenism. Indeed, I have sometimes been
amazed to find Christian people actually lacking in subjects of conversation, while the two
persons knew each of the other that he was a Christian.

You take two Christian people of this modern day and place them in the same room (I suppose
the two men may have no worldly subjects in common). What are they talking about? There being
no worldly subject common to them, they are in great stress for a subject, and after a long
pause Mr. A remarks: "It is a pleasant evening."

Again there is a long pause. These two men, both redeemed by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ,
heaven above them, hell beneath them, eternity before them, the glorious history of the Church
of Jesus Christ behind them, certainly after a while they will converse on the subject of religion.
A few minutes have passed and Mr. B remarks: "Fine autumn we are having."

Again there is a profound quiet. Now, you suppose that their religious feelings have really
been dammed back for a little while; the men have been postponing the things of God and eternity
that they may approach the subject with more deliberation, and you wonder what useful thing
Mr. B will say to Mr. A in conversation.

It is the third time, and perhaps it is the last that these two Christian men will ever meet
until they come face to face before the throne of God. They know it. The third attempt is now
made. Mr. A says to Mr. B: "Feels like snow!"

My opinion is, it must have felt more like ice. Oh, how little real, practical religious conversation
there is in this day! I would to God that we might get back to the old-time Christianity, when
men and women came into associations, and felt, "Here I must use all the influence I can for
Christ upon that soul, and get all the good I can. This may be the last opportunity I shall
have in this world of interviewing that immortal spirit."

But there are Christian associations where men and women do talk out their religion; and my
advice to you is to seek out all those things, and remember that just in proportion as you
seek such society will you be elevated and blessed. After all, the gospel boat is the only
safe boat to sail in. The ships of Jehoshaphat went all to pieces at Eziongeber.

Come aboard this gospel craft, made in the dry-dock of heaven and launched nineteen hundred
years ago in Bethlehem amid the shouting of the angels. Christ is the captain, and the children
of God are the crew. The cargo is made up of the hopes and joys of all the ransomed. It is
a ship bound heavenward, and all the batteries of God will boom a greeting as we sail in and
drop anchor in the still waters. Come aboard that ship; it is a safe craft! The fare is cheap!
It is a certain harbor!

The men of Ahaziah were forbidden to come aboard the ships of Jehoshaphat, but all the world
is invited to board this gospel craft. The vessel of Jehoshaphat went to pieces, but this craft
shall drop anchor within the harbor, and mountains shall depart, and hills shall be removed,
and seas shall dry up, and time itself shall perish, but the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting
to everlasting upon them that fear Him.

CHAPTER LXIV.

ALL ABOUT MERCY.

Benedict XIII. decreed that when the German: Catholics met each other, they should always give
the following salutation, the one first speaking saying, "Praised be Jesus Christ," the other
responding, "For ever, amen," a salutation fit for Protestants whenever they come together.

The word "mercy" is used in the Bible two hundred and fourteen times; it seems to be the favorite
word of all the Scriptures. Sometimes it glances feebly upon us like dew in the starlight;
then with bolder hand it seems to build an arched bridge from one storm-cloud of trouble to
another; and then again it trickles like a fountain upon the thirst of the traveler.

The finest roads I ever saw are in Switzerland. They are built by the government, and at very
short intervals you come across water pouring out of the rocks. The government provides cups
for men and troughs for the animals to drink out of. And our King has so arranged it that on
the highway we are traveling toward heaven, ever and anon there shall dash upon us the clear,
sweet water that flows from the eternal Rock. I propose to tell you some things about God's mercy.

First, think of His pardoning mercy. The gospel finds us shipwrecked; the wave beneath ready
to swallow us, the storm above pelting us, our good works foundered, there is no such thing
as getting ashore unhelped. The gospel finds us incarcerated; of all those who have been in
thick dungeon darkness, not one soul ever escaped by his own power. If a soul is delivered
at all, it is because some one on the outside shall shove the bolt and swing open the door,
and let the prisoner come out free.

The sin of the soul is not, as some would seem to think, just a little dust on the knee or
elbow that you can strike off in a moment and without any especial damage to you. Sin has utterly
discomfited us; it has ransacked our entire nature; it has ruined us so completely that no
human power can ever reconstruct us; but through the darkness of our prison gloom and through
the storm there comes a voice from heaven, saying, "I will abundantly pardon."

Then think of His restraining mercy. I do not believe that it is possible for any man to tell
his capacity for crime until he has been tested. There have been men who denounced all kinds
of frauds, who scorned all mean transactions, who would have had you believe that it was impossible
for them ever to be tempted to dishonesty, and yet they may be owning to-day the chief part
of the stock in the Credit Mobilier.

There are men who once said they never could be tempted to intemperance. They had no mercy
on the drunkard. They despised any man who became a victim of strong drink. Time passed on,
and now they are the victims of the bottle, so far gone in their dissipation that it is almost
impossible that they ever should be rescued.

So there have been those who were very hard on all kinds of impurity, and who scoffed at unchastity,
and who said that it was impossible that they should ever be led astray; but to-night they
are in the house whose gates are the gates of hell! It is a very dangerous thing for a man
to make a boast and say, "Such and such a sin I never could be tempted to commit."

There are ten thousand hands of mercy holding us up; there are ten thousand hands of mercy
holding us back, or we would long ago have gone over the precipice, and instead of sitting
to-night in a Christian sanctuary, amid the respected and the good, our song would have been
that of the drunkard, or we would be "hail fellows well met" with the renegade and the profligate.
Oh, the restraining mercy of God! Have you never celebrated it? Have you never rejoiced in it?

Think also of His guiding mercy. You have sometimes been on a journey, and come to where there
were three roads--one ahead of you, one to the right and one to the left. It was a lonely place,
and you had no one of whom to ask advice. You took the left-hand road, thinking that was the
right one, but before night you found out your mistake, and yet your horse was too exhausted
and you were too tired to retrace your steps, and the mistake you made was an irretrievable
mistake.

You come on in life, many a time, and find there are three or four or fifty roads, and which
one of the fifty to take you do not know. Let me say that there are forty-nine chances out
of fifty that you will take the wrong one, unless God directs you, since it is a great deal
easier to do that which is wrong than that which is right, our nature being corrupt and depraved.

Blessed be God, we have a directory! As a man lost on the mountains takes out his map and sees
the right road marked down, and makes up his mind what to do, so the Lord, in His gospel map,
has said: "This is the way, walk ye in it." Blessed be God for His guiding mercy!

Think also of the comforting mercy of God. In the days when men lived five or six or seven
hundred years, I suppose that troubles and misfortunes came to them at very great intervals.
Life did not go so fast. There were not so many vicissitudes; there was not so much jostling.
I suppose that now a man in forty years will have as many vexations and annoyances and hardships
and trials and temptations as those antediluvians had in four hundred years.

No one escapes. If you are not wounded in this side, you must be wounded in that. There are
foes all around about you. There is no one who has come up to this moment without having been
cleft of misfortunes, without having been disappointed and vexed and outraged and trampled on.

The world comes and tries to solace us, but I think the most impotent thing on earth is human
comfort when there is no gospel mixed with it. It is a sham and an insult to a wounded spirit--all
the comfort that this world can offer a man; but in his time of darkness and perplexity and
bereavement and persecution and affliction, Christ comes to him with the solace of His Spirit,
and He says: "Oh, thou tempted one, thou shalt not be tempted above that thou art able." He
tells the invalid, "There is a land where the inhabitants never say, 'I am sick.'" He says
to the assaulted one, "You are no better than I am; they maltreated me, and the servant ought
not to expect to have it easier than his Lord."

He comes to the bereaved one and says: "I am the resurrection and the life; he that believeth
in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live." And if the trouble be intricate, if there be
so many prongs to it, so many horns to it, so many hoofs to it, that he cannot take any of
the other promises and comforts of God's word to his soul, he can take that other promise made
for a man in the last emergency and when everything else fails: "All things work together for
good to those that love God." Oh, have you never sung of the comforting mercy of God?

Think also of His enthroning mercy. Notwithstanding there are so many comforts in Christ's
gospel, I do not think that we could stand the assault and rebuff of the world for ever. We
all were so weary of the last war. It seemed as if those four years were as long as any fifteen
or twenty years of our life. But how could we endure one hundred years, or five hundred years,
or a thousand years, of earthly assault? Methinks the spirit would wear down under the constant
chafing and the assault of the world.

Blessed be God, this story of grief and trouble and perplexity will come to an end! There are
twelve gates to heaven, and they are all gates of mercy. There are paths coming into all those
gates, and they are all paths of mercy. There are bells that ring in the eternal towers, and
they are all chimes of mercy. There are mansions prepared for us in this good land when we
have done with the toils of earth, and all those mansions are mansions of mercy. Can you not
now strike upon your soul, saying, "Bless the Lord, O my soul, for thy pardoning mercy, for
thy restraining mercy, for thy guiding mercy, for thy comforting mercy, for thy enthroning mercy!"

CHAPTER LXV.

UNDER THE CAMEL'S SADDLE.

Rachel had been affianced to Jacob, and one day while her father, Laban, was away from home
she eloped with Jacob. Laban returned home and expressed great sorrow that he had not been
there when his daughter went away, saying that he would have allowed her to go, and that she
might have been accompanied with a harp and the dance and with many beautiful presents.

Laban started for Rachel and Jacob. He was very anxious to recover the gods that had been stolen
from his household. He supposed that Rachel had taken them, as she really had. He came up in
the course of a few days to the party and demanded the gods that had been taken from his house.
Jacob knew nothing about the felony, but Rachel was secreting these household gods.

Laban came into the tent where she was, and asked for them. She sat upon a saddle of a camel,
the saddle having been laid down at the side of the tent, and under this camel's saddle were
the images. Rachel pretended to be sick, and said she could not rise. Her father, Laban, supposed
that she told the truth, and looked everywhere but under the camel's saddle, where really the
lost images were. He failed in the search, and went back home without them.

It was a strange thing for Laban to do. He pretended to be a worshiper of the true God. What
did he want of those images? Ah, the fact was, that though he worshiped God, he worshiped with
only half a heart, and he sometimes, I suppose, repented of the fact that he worshiped him
at all, and really had a hankering after those old gods which in his earliest days he had worshiped.
And now we find him in Rachel's tent looking for them.

Do not let us, however, be too severely critical of Laban. He is only the representative of
thousands of Christian men and women, who, once having espoused the worship of God, go back
to their idols. When a man professes faith in Christ on communion-day, with the sacramental
cup in his hand, he swears allegiance to the Lord God Almighty, and says, "Let all my idols
perish!" but how many of us have forsaken our fealty to God, and have gone back to our old idols!

There are many who sacrifice their soul's interests in the idolatry of wealth. There was a
time when you saw the folly of trying with, money to satisfy the longing of your soul. You
said, when you saw men going down into the dust and tussle of life, "Whatever god I worship,
it won't be a golden calf." You saw men plunge into the life of a spendthrift, or go down into
the life of a miser, like one of old smothered to death in his own money-chest, and you thought,
"I shall be very careful never to be caught in these traps in which so many men have fallen,
to their souls' eternal discomfiture."

But you went down into the world; you felt-the force of temptation; you saw men all around
you making money very fast, some of them sacrificing all their Christian principle; you felt
the fascination come upon your own soul, and before you knew it, you were with Laban going
down to hunt in Rachel's tent for your lost idols.

On one of our pieces of money you find the head of a goddess, a poor inscription for an American
coin; far better the inscription that the old Jews put upon the shekel, a pot of manna and
an almond rod, alluding to the mercy and deliverance of God in their behalf in other days.
But how seldom it is that money is consecrated to Christ! Instead of the man owning the money,
the money owns the man. It is evident, especially to those with whom they do business every
day, that they have an idol, or that, having once forsaken the idol, they are now in search
of it, far away from the house of God, in Rachel's tent looking for the lost images.

One of the mighty men of India said to his servants: "Go not near the cave in such a ravine."
The servants talked the matter over, and said: "There must be gold there, or certainly this
mighty man would not warn us against going." They went, expecting to find a pile of gold; they
rolled away the stone from the door of the cave, when a tiger sprang out upon them and devoured
them.

Many a man in the search of gold has been craunched in the jaws of destruction. Going out far
away from the God whom they originally worshiped, they are seeking in the tent of Rachel, Laban's
lost images.

There are a great many Christians in this day renewing the idolatry of human opinion. There
was a time when they woke up to the folly of listening to what men said to them. They soliloquized
in this way: "I have a God to worship, and I am responsible only to Him. I must go straight
on and do my whole duty, whether the world likes it or don't like it;" and they turned a deaf
ear to the fascinations of public applause. After a while they did something very popular.
They had the popular ear and the popular heart. Men approved them, and poured gentle words
of flattery into their ear, and before they realized it they went into the search of that which
they had given up, and were, with Laban, hunting in Rachel's tent for the lost images.

Between eleven and twelve o'clock one June night, Gibbon, the great historian, finished his
history. Seated in a summer garden, he says that as he wrote the last line of that wonderful
work he felt great satisfaction. He closed the manuscript, walked out into the moonlight in
the garden, and then, he said, he felt an indescribable melancholy come upon his soul at the
thought that so soon he must leave all the fame that he would acquire by that manuscript.

The applause of this world is a very mean god to worship. It is a Dagon that falls upon its
worshipers and crushes them to death. Alas for those who, fascinated by human applause, give
up the service of the Lord God and go with Laban to hunt in Rachel's tent for the lost images!

There are many Christians being sacrificed to appetite. There was a time when they said: "I
will not surrender to evil appetites." For a while they seemed to break away from all the allurements
by which they were surrounded, but sometimes they felt that they were living upon a severe
regimen. They said: "After all, I will go back to my old bondage;" and they fell away from
the house of God, and fell away from respectability, and fell away for ever.

One of the kings in olden times, the legend says, consented that the devil might kiss him on
both shoulders, but no sooner were the kisses imprinted upon the shoulders than serpents grew
forth and began to devour him, and as the king tried to tear off the serpents he found he was
tearing his own life out. And there are men who are all enfolded in adders of evil appetite
and passion that no human power can ever crush; and unless the grace of God seizes hold of
them, these adders will become "the worm that never dies." Alas for those who, once having
broken away from the mastery of evil appetites and passion, go back to the sins that they once
renounced, and, with Laban in Rachel's tent, go to hunt for the lost images!

There are a great many also sacrificed by indolence. In the hour of their conversion they looked
off upon the world, and said: "Oh how much work to be done, how many harvests to be gathered,
how many battles to be fought, how many tears to be wiped away, and how many wounds to be bound
up!" and they looked with positive surprise upon those who could sit idle in the kingdom of
God while there was so much work to do. After a while they found their efforts were unappreciated,
that some of their best work in behalf of Christ was caricatured and they were laughed at,
and they began to relax their effort, and the question was no more, "What can I do for Christ?"
but "How can I take my ease? where can I find my rest?" Are there not some of you who in the
hour of your consecration started out nobly, bravely and enthusiastically for the Saviour's
kingdom who have fallen back into ease of body and ease of soul, less anxious about the salvation
of men than you once were, and are actually this moment in Rachel's tent hunting up the lost
images?

Oh, why go down hunting for our old idols? We have found out they are insufficient for the
soul. Eyes have they, but they see not; ears have they, but, they hear not; and hands have
they, but they handle not. There is only one God to worship, and He sits in the heavens.

How do I know that there is only one God? I know it just as the boy knew it when his teacher
asked him how many Gods there are. He said, "There is but one."

"How do you know that?" inquired the teacher.

The boy replied, "There is only room for one, for He fills the heavens and the earth."

Come into the worship of that God. He is a wise God. He can plan out all the affairs of your
life. He can mark out all the steps that you ought to take. He will put the sorrows in the
right place, and the victories in the right place, and the defeats in the right place; and
coming to the end of your life, if you have served Him faithfully, you will be compelled to
say, "Just and true are thy ways; thou art, O Lord, always right."

He is a mighty God. Have Him on your side, and you need not fear earth or hell. He can ride
down all your spiritual foes. He is mighty to overthrow your enemies. He is mighty to save
your soul. Ay, He is a loving God. He will put the arms of His love around about your neck.
He will bring you close to His heart and shelter you from the storm. In times of trouble He
will put upon your soul the balm of precious promises. He will lead you all through the vale
of tears trustfully and happily, and then at last take you to dwell in His presence, where
there is fullness of joy, and at His right hand, where there are pleasures for evermore. Oh,
compared with such a wise God, such a mighty God, such a loving God, what are all the images
under the camel's saddle in the tent of Rachel?

CHAPTER LXVI.

HALF-AND-HALF CHURCHES.

After we have been taking a long walk on a summer day, or been on a hunting chase, a draught
of cold water exhilarates. On the other hand, after standing or walking in the cold air and
being chilled, hot water, mingled with some beverage, brings life and comfort to the whole
body; but tepid water, neither hot nor cold, is nauseating.

Now, Christ says that a church of that temperature acts on him as an emetic: I will spew thee
out of my mouth.

The church that is red hot with religious emotion, praying, singing, working, Christ having
taken full possession of the membership, must be to God satisfactory.

On the other hand, a frozen church may have its uses. The minister reads elegant essays, and
improves the session or the vestry in rhetorical composition. The music is artistic and improves
the ear of the people, so that they can better appreciate concert and opera.

The position of such a church is profitable to the book-binder who furnishes the covers to
the liturgy, and the dry-goods merchants who supply the silks, and the clothiers who furnish
the broadcloth. Such a church is good for the business world, makes trade lively and increases
the demand for fineries of all sorts, for a luxurious religion demands furs and coats, and
gaiters to match. Christ says he gets along with a church, cold or hot.

But an unmitigated nuisance to God and man is a half-and-half church, with piety tepid. The
pulpit in such a church makes more of orthodoxy than it does of Christ. It is immense on definitions.
It treats of justification and sanctification as though they were two corpses to be dissected.
Its sermons all have a black morocco cover, which some affectionate sister gave the pastor
before he was married, to wrap his discourse in, lest it get mussed in the dust of the pulpit.
Its gestures are methodical, as though the man were ever conscious that they had been decreed
from all eternity, and he were afraid of interfering with the decree by his own free agency.

Such a pulpit never startles the people with the horrors of an undone eternity. No strong meat,
but only pap, flour and water, mostly water. The church prayer-meeting is attended only by
a few gray heads who have been in the habit of going there for twenty years, not because they
expect any arousing time or rapturous experiences, but because they feel only a few will be
there, and they ought to go.

The minister is sound. The membership sound. The music sound. If, standing in a city of a hundred
thousand people, there are five or ten conversions in a year, everything is thought to be "encouraging."
But Christ says that such a church is an emetic. "Because thou art neither cold nor hot, I
will spew thee out of my mouth."

My friends, you had better warm up or freeze over. Better set the kettle outside in the atmosphere
at zero, or put it on the altar of God and stir up the coals into a blaze. If we do not, God
will remove us.

Christian men are not always taken to heaven as a reward, but sometimes to get them out of
the way on earth. They go to join the tenth-rate saints in glory; for if such persons think
they will stand with Paul, and Harlan Page, and Charlotte Elizabeth, they are much mistaken.

When God takes them up, the church here is better off. We mourn slightly to have them go, because
we have got used to having them around, and at the funeral the minister says all the good things
about the man that can well be thought of, because we want to make the funeral as respectable
as possible. I never feel so much tempted to lie as when an inconsistent and useless Christian
has died, and I want in my final remarks to make a good case out for the poor fellow. Still,
it is an advantage to have such a man get out of the way. He is opposed to all new enterprises.
He puts back everything he tries to help. His digestion of religious things is impaired, and
his circulation is so poor that no amount of friction can arouse him.

Now, it is dangerous for any of you to stay in that condition. If you cannot be moved, God
will kill you, and He will put in your place those who will do the work you are neglecting.

My friends, let all arouse! The nearness of our last account, the greatness of the work to
be done, and the calls of God's word and providence, ought to stir our souls. After having
been in the harvest field so long it would be a shame in the nightfall of death to go home
empty-handed. Gather up a few gleanings from the field, and beat them out, that it may be found
that Ruth had at least "one ephah of barley."

CHAPTER LXVII.

THORNS.

The Christian world has long been guessing what Paul's thorn in the flesh was. I have a book
that in ten pages tries to show what Paul's thorn was not, and in another ten pages tries to
show what it was.

Many of the theological doctors have felt Paul's pulse to see what was the matter with him.
I suppose that the reason he did not tell us what it was may have been because he did not want
us to know. He knew that if he stated what it was there would have been a great many people
from Corinth bothering him with prescriptions as to how he might cure it.

Some say it was diseased eyes, some that it was a humped back. It may have been neuralgia.
Perhaps it was gout, although his active habits and a sparse diet throw doubt on the supposition.
Suffice to say it was a thorn--that is, it stuck him. It was sharp.

It was probably of not much account in the eyes of the world. It was not a trouble that could
be compared to a lion or a boisterous sea. It was like a thorn that you may have in your hand
or foot and no one know it. Thus we see that it becomes a type of those little nettlesome worries
of life that exasperate the spirit.

Every one has a thorn sticking him. The housekeeper finds it in unfaithful domestics; or an
inmate who keeps things disordered; or a house too small for convenience or too large to be
kept cleanly. The professional man finds it in perpetual interruptions or calls for "more copy."
The Sabbath-school teacher finds it in inattentive scholars, or neighboring teachers that talk
loud and make a great noise in giving a little instruction.

One man has a rheumatic joint which, when the wind is northeast, lifts the storm signal. Another
a business partner who takes full half the profits, but does not help earn them. These trials
are the more nettlesome because, like Paul's thorn, they are not to be mentioned. Men get sympathy
for broken bones and mashed feet, but not for the end of sharp thorns that have been broken
off in the fingers.

Let us start out with the idea that we must have annoyances. It seems to take a certain number
of them to keep us humble, wakeful and prayerful. To Paul the thorn was as disciplinary as
the shipwreck. If it is not one thing, it is another. If the stove does not smoke, the boiler
must leak. If the pen is good, the ink must be poor. If the editorial column be able, there
must be a typographical blunder. If the thorn does not pierce the knee, it must take you in
the back. Life must have sharp things in it. We cannot make up our robe of Christian character
without pins and needles.

We want what Paul got--grace to bear these things. Without it we become cross, censorious and
irascible. We get in the habit of sticking our thorns into other people's fingers. But God
helping us, we place these annoyances in the category of the "all things that work together
for good." We see how much shorter these thorns are than the spikes that struck through the
palms of Christ's hands; and remembering that he had on his head a whole crown of thorns, we
take to ourselves the consolation that if we suffer with him on earth we shall be glorified
with him in heaven.

But how could Paul positively rejoice in these infirmities? I answer that the school of Christ
has three classes of scholars. In the first class we learn how to be stuck with thorns without
losing our patience. In the second class we learn how to make the sting positively advantageous.
In the third class of this school we learn how even to rejoice in being pierced and wounded,
but that is the senior class; and when we get to that, we are near graduation into glory.

CHAPTER LXVIII.

WHO TOUCHED ME?

There is nothing more unreasonable and ungovernable than a crowd of people. Men who standing
alone or in small groups are deliberate in all they do, lose their self-control when they come
to stand in a crowd. You have noticed this, if you have heard a cry of fire in a large assemblage,
or have seen people moving about in great excitement in some mass-meeting, shoving, jostling
and pulling at each other.

But while the Lord Jesus had been performing some wonderful works, and a great mob of people
were around Him, shoving this way and that way, all the jostling He received evoked from Him
no response.

After a while I see a wan and wasted woman pressing through the crowd. She seems to have a
very urgent errand. I can see from her countenance that she has been a great sufferer. She
comes close enough to put her finger on the hem of Christ's garment, and the very moment she
puts her finger on that garment, Jesus says: "Who touched me?"

I would like to talk to you of the extreme sensitiveness of Jesus. It is very often the case
that those men who are mighty, have very little fineness of feeling; but notwithstanding the
fact that the Lord Jesus Christ was the King of glory, having all power in heaven and on earth,
so soon as this sick woman comes up and puts her finger on the hem of His garment, that moment
all the feelings of His soul are aroused, and He cries out: "Who touched me?"

I remark that poverty touches Him. The Bible says that this woman had spent all her money on
physicians; she had not got the worth of her money. Those physicians in Oriental lands were
very incompetent for their work, and very exorbitant in their demands. You know they have a
habit even to this day in those countries of making very singular charges. Sometimes they examine
the capacity of the person to pay, and they take the entire estate.

At any rate, this woman spoken of in the text had spent her money on physicians, and very poor
physicians at that. The Lord saw her poverty and destitution. He knew from what a miserable
home she had come. He did not ask, "Who touched me?" because He did not know; He wanted to
evoke that woman's response, and He wanted to point all the multitude to her particular case
before her cure was effected, in order that the miraculous power might be demonstrated before
all the people, and that they might be made to believe.

In this day, as then, the touch of poverty always evokes Christ's attention. If you be one
who has had a hard struggle to get daily bread--if the future is all dark before you--if you
are harassed and perplexed, and know not which way to turn, I want you to understand that,
although in this world there may be no sympathy for you, the heart of the Lord Jesus Christ
is immediately moved, and you have but to go to Him and touch Him with your little finger,
and you arouse all the sympathies of His infinite nature.

I also learn that sickness touches Him. She had been an invalid for twelve years. How many
sleepless nights, what loss of appetite, what nervousness, what unrest, what pain of body,
the world knew not. But when she came up and put her finger on Christ's garment, all her suffering
thrilled through the heart of Christ instantaneously.

When we are cast down with Asiatic cholera or yellow fever, we cry to God for pity; but in
the ailments of life that continue from day to day, month to month and year to year are you
in the habit of going to Christ for sympathy? Is it in some fell disaster alone that you call
to God for mercy, or is it in the little aches and pains of your life that you implore Him?
Don't try to carry these burdens alone. These chronic diseases are the diseases that wear out
and exhaust Christian grace, and you need to get a new supply. Go to Him this night, if never
before, with all your ailments of body, and say: "Lord Jesus, look upon my aches and pains.
In this humble and importunate prayer I touch thee."

I remark further that the Saviour is touched with all bereavements. Perhaps there is not a
single room in your house but reminds you of some one who has gone. You cannot look at a picture
without thinking she admired that. You cannot see a toy but you think she played with it. You
cannot sit down and put your fingers on the piano without thinking she used to handle this
instrument, and everything that is beautiful in your home is suggestive of positive sadness.

Graves! graves! graves! It is the history of how many families to-night! You measure your life
from tear to tear, from groan to groan, from anguish to anguish, and sometimes you feel that
God has forsaken you, and you say, "Is His mercy clean gone forever, and will He be favorable
no more?"

Can it be, my afflicted friends, that you have been so foolish as to try to carry the burden
alone, when there is an almighty arm willing to be thrust under you? Can it be that you have
traveled that desert not willing to drink of the fountains that God opened at your feet? Oh,
have you not realized the truth that Jesus is sympathetic with bereavement? Did He not mourn
at the grave of Lazarus, and will He not weep with all those who are mourning over the dead?

You may feel faint from your bereavements, and you may not know which way to turn, and all
human solace may go for nothing; but if you would this night with your broken heart just go
one step further forward, pressing through all the crowd of your perplexities, anxieties and
sorrows, you might with one finger move His heart, and He would say, looking upon you with
infinite comfort and compassion, "Who touched me?"

I remark that all our sins touch Him. It is generally the fact that we make a record only of
those sins which are sins of the action; but where there is one sin of the action there are
thousands of thought. Let us remember that God puts down in His book all the iniquitous thoughts
that have ever gone through your souls. There they stand--the sins of 1820; the sins of 1825;
all the sins of 1831; the sins of 1835; the sins of 1840; the sins of 1846; the sins of 1850;
the sins of 1853; the sins of 1859; the sins of 1860; the sins of 1865; the sins of 1870; the
sins of 1874. Oh, I can't think of it with any degree of composure. I should fly in terror
did I not feel that those sins had been erased by the hand of my Lord Jesus Christ--that hand
which was wounded for my transgression.

The snow falls on the Alps flake by flake, and day after day, and month after month, and after
a while, at the touch of a traveler's foot, the avalanche slides down upon the villages with
terrific crash and thunder. So the sins of our life accumulate and pile up, and after a while,
unless we are rescued by the grace of our Lord Jesus, they will come down upon our souls in
an avalanche of eternal ruin.

When we think of our sins, we are apt to think of those we have recently committed--those sins
of the past day, or the past week, or the past year; those sins that have been in the far distance
are all gone from our memory. You can't call a half dozen of them up in your mind. But God
remembers every one of them. There is a record made of them. They will be your overthrow unless
you somehow get them out of that book.

In the great day of judgment, God will call the roll, and they will all answer, "here!" "here!"
"here!"

Oh, how they have wounded Jesus! Did He not come into this world to save us? Have not these
sins been committed against the heart and mercy of our Lord Jesus? Sins committed against us
by an enemy we can stand; but by a friend, how hard it is to bear! Have we not wounded the
Lord Jesus Christ in the house of His friends?

Since we stood up in the presence of the great congregation and attested our love for Christ
and said from this time we will serve the Lord, have we not all been recreant? Have we not
gone astray like lost sheep, and there is no health in us? Oh, they touch Christ; they have
touched Him on the tenderest spot of His heart.

Let us bemoan this treatment of our best friend. It seems to me Christ was never so lovely
as He is now--the chief among ten thousand and the one altogether lovely. Why can't you come
and put your trust in Him? He is an infinite Saviour. He can take all the iniquities of your
life and cast them behind His back. Blessed is the man who has obtained His forgiveness, and
whose sins are covered!