In busy times, no two Regimental Hospitals were alike in their management, because the scheme
was not capable of expansion. The surgeon and his hospital-sergeant managed everything. The
surgeon saw and treated the cases, and made out his lists of articles wanted. It was his proper
business to keep the books,--to record the admissions, and make the returns, and keep the accounts,
and post up all the documents: but professional men do not like this sort of work, when they
want to be treating disease; and the books were too often turned over to the hospital-sergeant.
His indispensable business was to superintend the wards, and the attendance on the patients,
the giving them their medicines, etc., which most of us would think enough for one man: but
he had besides to keep up the military discipline in the establishment,--to prepare the materials
for the surgeon's duty at the desk,--to take charge of all the orders for the diet of all the
patients, and see them fulfilled,--to keep the record of all the provisions ordered and used
in every department,--and to take charge of the washing, the hospital stores, the furniture,
the surgery, and the dispensary. In short, the hospital-sergeant had to be at once ward-master,
steward, dispenser, sergeant, clerk, and purveyor; and, as no man can be a six-sided official,
more or fewer of his duties were deputed to the orderly, or to anybody within call.

Nobody could dispute the superior economy and comfort of having a concentration of patients
arranged in the wards according to their ailments, with a general kitchen, a general laundry,
a dispensary and surgery, and a staff of officials, each with his own distinct business, instead
of as many jacks-of-all-trades, each doing a little of everything. Yet the obstinacy of the
fight made by the surgeons for the system of Regimental Hospitals was almost insuperable. There
was no desire on any hand to abolish their hospitals, which must always be needed for slight,
and also for immediately pressing cases. What was asked of them was to give way when epidemics,
or a sudden influx of wounded, or protracted cases put a greater strain upon the system than
it would bear.

The French, meantime, had three sorts of hospitals,--the Divisional ones coming between the
Regimental and the General. Only the very slightest cases ever enter their Regimental Hospital;
those which may last weeks are referred to the Divisional; and those which may last months,
with prospect of recovery, to the General Hospital. The Sardinian plan was nearly the same.
The Russians had Divisional Hospitals at various stations; and all cases were carried to them.

The Regimental Hospitals are wherever the regiments are. The advantage is, that aid can be
immediately rendered,--not only in case of wounds, but of cholera, in which it is desirable
to lay a patient down in the nearest bed to which he can be conveyed. The disadvantages are
the hap-hazard quality of the site, the absence of quiet and seclusion, and the liability of
being near the scene of conflict. These things cause the French to prefer the Divisional Hospital,
which, while still within reach, is set farther back from the force, in a picked situation,
and managed on a large scale and with nicer exactitude.

The General Hospital is understood to be at the base of operations: and this supposes, as a
part of its organization, a system of transport, not only good of its kind, but adequate to
any demands consequent on a great battle, or the spread of an epidemic in the camp. The nearer
the hospital is to the active force, the better, of course; but there are conditions to be
fulfilled first. It must be safe from the enemy. It must be placed in a permanent station.
It must be on a good road, and within immediate reach of markets. It ought also to be on the
way home, for the sake of the incurable or the incapacitated who must be sent home.

In the Regimental Hospital, the surgeon may be seen going from the man who has lost a finger
to a fever patient,--and then to one who has ophthalmia,--passing on to a fellow raving in
delirium tremens,--next to whom is a sufferer under bronchitis, who will not be allowed to
go out of doors for weeks to come; and if half a dozen are brought in with cholera in the course
of the day, the officials do not know which way to turn. It is possible that the surgeon may
be found making starch over the kitchen fire, because there is nobody at hand who understands
how to make starched bandages; or he may be at the desk, casting up columns of figures, or
writing returns, when he is urgently wanted at the bedside. Such things can hardly happen now;
but they have happened within ten years. The Russians, meantime, would be carrying all manner
of patients to one of their hospital-stations,--each sufferer to the hospital of his own division.
The French would leave the men with scratches and slight diarrhea and delirium tremens in the
Regimental Hospital,--would send the fever and bronchitis and scorbutic patients to the Divisional,--and
any gravely wounded, or rheumatic, or other very long cases to the General Hospital at the
base of operations.

Such arrangements, however, are of no use, if the last be not so organized as to render it
fit to supply what the others cannot give, and to answer purposes which the others cannot even
propose.

When doctors and soldiers alike shuddered at the mention of the General Hospital as a necessary
institution at or near the seat of war, they were thinking of what they had seen or heard of
during the Peninsular Campaigns. There were such infirmaries wherever there was a line of march
in Spain; and they seemed to be all alike. Hospital gangrene set in among the wounded, and
fever among the sick, so that the soldiers said, "To send a poor fellow to the hospital is
to send him to death." Yet there was nothing else to be done; for it was impossible to treat
the seriously sick and wounded at the spot where they fell. During that war, nearly twice the
number which composed the army passed through the hospitals every year; and of these there
were known deaths to the amount of thirteen thousand five hundred; and thousands more were
never the same men again. When the case was better understood,--as during the last year in
the Crimea,--the mortality in the hospitals barely exceeded that of the Guards in their barracks
at home! Recovery had become the rule, and death a remarkable event. General Hospitals had
come to surpass all other means of curing patients, while fulfilling their own peculiar service
to society through new generations.

What are the functions of General Hospitals, besides curing the sick and wounded? some readers
may ask, who have never particularly attended to the subject.

The first business of such institutions is undoubtedly to restore as many as possible of the
sufferers brought into them: and this includes the duty of bringing in the patients in the
most favorable way, receiving them in an orderly and quiet manner, doctoring, nursing, feeding,
clothing, and cleaning them, keeping their minds composed and cheerful, and their manners creditable,
promoting their convalescence, and dismissing them in a state of comfort as to equipment. This
is the first duty, in its many subdivisions. The next is to obviate, as far as possible, future
disease in any army. The third grows out of this. It is to improve the science of the existing
generation by a full use of the peculiar opportunities of observation afforded by the crop
of sickness and wounds yielded by an army in action. To take these in their reverse order.

There must be much to learn from any great assemblage of sickness, under circumstances which
can be fully ascertained, even at home,--and much more in a foreign climate. The medical body
of every nation has very imperfect knowledge of classes and modifications of diseases; so that
one of the strongest desires of the most learned physicians is for an improved classification
and constantly improving nomenclature of diseases; and hospital-records afford the most direct
way to this knowledge. Thus, while the phenomena are frittered away among Regimental or unorganized
General Hospitals, a well-kept record in each well-organized hospital will do more than all
other means to promote the scientific understanding of disease.

The statistics of disease in armies, the ascertainment of the numbers who sicken and who die
of particular diseases, would save more lives in future generations than can be now appreciated;
but what can the regimental surgeon do towards furnishing any trustworthy materials to such
an inquiry? A dozen doctors, with each his smattering of patients, can learn and teach but
little while they work apart: whereas a regular system of inquiry and record, in action where
the sick are brought in in battalions, is the best possible agency. Not only are these objects
lost when surgeons are allowed to make the great hospital a mere receptacle for a cluster of
small and desultory hospitals, but the advantages of a broad study of diseases and their treatment
are lost. Inestimable facts of treatment are learned by watching, at the same time and in the
same place, a ward full of patients ill of the same disease. People of all countries know this
by the special learning which their physicians obtain in large civil hospitals: and the same
thing happens in military hospitals, with the additional advantage that the information and
improved art tend to the special safety of the future soldiery, in whatever climate they may
be called on to serve.

There has long been some general notion of the duty of army-surgeons to record what they saw
in foreign campaigns; but no benefit has been reaped till of late. The works of French field-surgeons
have long been justly celebrated; but I do not know that in the statistics and the nomenclature
of disease they have done much more than others. The English surgeons carried or sent home
in 1810 a mass of papers about the Walcheren fever, and afterwards of the diseases of the Peninsular
force: but the Director General of the Medical Department considered such a bulk of records
troublesome, and ordered them to be burnt! Such an act will never be perpetrated again; but
directors will have a more manageable mass of documents to deal with henceforth. With a regular
system of record, at a central station of observation, much more may be done with much less
fatigue to all parties.

But how is it to be done? may well be asked. In the hurry and confusion of a war, and amidst
the pressure of hundreds of new cases in a day, what can the surgeons of the hospital be expected
to do for science, or even for the improvement of medical and surgical practice?--The answer
is seen in the new arrangements in England, where a statistical branch has been established
in the Army Medical Department. Of course, no one but the practising surgeon or physician can
furnish the pathological facts in each individual case; but this is what every active and earnest
practitioner does always and everywhere, when he sees reason for it. His note-book or hospital-journal
provides that raw material which the statistical department is to arrange and utilize. The
result will be that a flood of light will be cast on matters affecting the health and life
of soldiers and other men, in regard to which we might have gone on groping for centuries among
the confusion of regimental records, without getting what we wanted. As to the method of proceeding,
I may have something to say farther on. Meantime, we must turn to the primary object of the
institution of the Military Hospital,--the cure of the wounded and sick of the army.

In the case of active war, foreign or civil, the General Hospital is usually an extemporized
establishment, the building a makeshift, and the arrangements such as the building will admit.
In Spain, the British obtained any houses they could get; and the soldiers were sometimes crowded
into half a dozen of them in one town. In the last war, the great buildings at Scutari were
engaged three months before they were wanted for extensive use; so that there was plenty of
time for making them clean, airy, warm, and commodious, and for storing them with all conveniences.
This was not done; and the failure and its consequences afford a lesson by which every people
engaged in war should profit. A mere outline of what was not done at Scutari may be an indication
of what should be done with all convenient speed elsewhere.

There was a catgut manufactory close at hand, which filled the neighborhood with stench. Half
a dozen dead dogs festered under the windows in the sun; and a dead horse lay in the aqueduct
for six weeks. The drain-pipes within the building were obstructed and had burst, spreading
their contents over the floors and walls. The sloping boarded divans in the wards, used for
sleeping-places, were found, after the building became crowded, to be a cover for a vast accumulation
of dead rats, old rags, and the dust of years. Like all large stone buildings in the East,
it was intolerably cold in winter, with its stagnant air, its filthy damps, and its vaultings
and chill floors. This wonderful building was very grandly reported of to England, for its
size and capacity, its imposing character, and so forth; and the English congratulated themselves
on the luck of the wounded in having such a hospital. Yet, in the next January, fourteen hundred
and eighty were carried out dead.

It appears that nobody knew how to go to work. Everybody writes to somebody else to advise
them to "observe"; and there are so many assurances that everybody means to "observe," that
there seems to have been no leisure to effect anything. One thinks that this, that, or the
other should be attended to; and another states that the matter is under consideration. It
was some weeks before anybody got so far in definiteness as to propose whitewash. Somebody
understood that somebody else was intending to have the corridors scoured; and representations
were to be made to the Turkish authorities about getting the drain-pipes mended. The Turkish
authorities wished to employ their own workmen in putting in the stoves; and on the 18th of
December the responsible British officer hoped the stoves would be put up immediately, but
could not be certain, as Turkish workmen were in question. This was a month after large companies
of wounded and sick had been sent in from the seat of war. Even then, nothing had been done
for ventilation, or, on any sufficient scale, for putting the poor sufferers comfortably to bed.

These things confirm the necessity of a regulated cooperation between the sanitary, the medical,
and the military officers of an army. The sanitary officer should be secure of the services
of engineers enough to render the hospital, as well as the camp, safely habitable. As soon
as any building is taken possession of for a hospital, men and their tools should be at command
for exploring the drains and making new ones,--for covering or filling up ditches,--for clearing
and purifying the water-courses, and leading in more water, if needed,--for removing all nuisances
for a sufficient distance round,--and for improving to the utmost the means of access to the
house. There must be ventilating spaces in the roof, and in the upper part of all the wards
and passages. Every vaulted space, or other receptacle of stagnant air, should have a current
established through it. All decaying wood in the building should be removed, and any portion
ingrained with dirt should be planed clean. A due water-supply should be carried up to every
story, and provided for the bathrooms, the wash-houses, and the kitchen. Every edifice in America
is likely to be already furnished with means of warmth; and the soldiers are probably in no
danger of shivering over the uncertain promise of stoves on the 18th of December.

Next comes the consideration of store-place, which can be going forward while busy hands are
cleaning every inch of ceiling, walls, floors, and windows within. There must be sheds and
stables for the transport service; and a surgery and dispensary planned with a view to the
utmost saving of time and trouble, so that medicines and utensils may be within reach and view,
and the freest access allowed to applicants. The kitchens must have the best stoves and boilers,
dressers and scales, and apparatus of every kind that is known to the time; for more lives
depend on perfect food being administered with absolute punctuality than upon any medical treatment.
There must be large and abundant and airy store-places for the provisions, and also for such
stocks of linen and bedding as perhaps nobody ever dreamed of before the Crimean War.

The fatal notions of Regimental Hospital management caused infinite misery at Scutari. In entering
the Regimental Hospital, the soldier carries his kit, or can step into his quarters for it:
and the regulations, therefore, suppose him to be supplied with shirts and stockings, towel
and soap, brushes and comb. This supposition was obstinately persevered in, at Scutari, till
private charity had shamed the authorities into providing for the men's wants. When the wounded
were brought from the Alma, embarked on crowded transports straight from the battle-field,
how could they bring their kits? Miss Nightingale, and benevolent visitors from England, bought
up at Constantinople, and obtained from home, vast supplies of body- and bed-linen, towels,
basins, and water-cans; and till they did so, the poor patients lay on a single blanket or
coarse canvas sheet, in their one shirt, perhaps soaked in blood and dirt. There were some
stores in the hospital, though not enough; and endless difficulty was made about granting them,
lest any man should have brought his kit, and thus have a double supply. Amidst the emergencies
of active war, it seems to be an obvious provision that every General Hospital should have
in store, with ample bedding, body-linen enough for as many patients as can occupy the beds,--the
consideration being kept in view, that, where the sick and wounded are congregated, more frequent
changes of linen are necessary than under any other circumstances.

