On the 16th of the same month Congress authorized the issue of $10,000,000 treasury notes,
to bear interest at the lowest rate bid. On the 18th Secretary Philip F. Thomas, Mr. Cobb's
successor, invited bids for $5,000,000 of treasury notes, part of the $10,000,000 authorized,
at the rate of interest offered by the lowest bidder. Offers at 12 per cent. or less were made
for $1,831,000 (the bulk of the offers being at 12 per cent.) which were accepted and additional
offers were received at interest varying from 15 to 36 per cent., but were refused.  Immediately
after the decision of the department on these offers was announced, the assistant treasurer
at New York advised the secretary that certain parties would take the residue of the $5,000,000
offered, through the Bank of Commerce, at 12 per cent.  This proposition was accepted, on condition
that the amount required to make up the five millions should be deposited without delay.  The
whole amount was applied to the payment of overdue treasury notes and other pressing demands
on the treasury.

Secretary Thomas resigned on the 11th of January, 1861, and John A. Dix became Secretary of
the Treasury.  In answer to my inquiry Secretary Dix, in an official letter, dated January
18, 1861, stated the terms of the sale of treasury notes and that:  "The amount required to
meet the outstanding current and accruing dues before the close of the present fiscal year,
besides any additional charges on the treasury created by legislation during the present session
of Congress, is $44,077,524.63."  He recommended a further issue of $25,000,000 of bonds, and
suggested that the states which had received deposits under the act for the distribution of
surplus revenue in General Jackson's time might be called upon to return such deposits, and
added:  "If, instead of calling for these deposits, it should be deemed advisable to pledge
them for the repayment of any money the government might find it necessary to borrow, a loan
contracted on such a basis of security, superadding to the plighted faith of the United States
that of the individual states, could hardly fail to be acceptable to capitalists."

In this connection I received the following note:

  "Treasury Department, February 6, 1861.
"Hon. John Sherman.

"Dear Sir:--I send a preamble and resolution, and a letter to your governor.  Will you read
and send them at once?  You, as a Member of Congress, can say what I cannot with propriety--that
no states which guarantee bonds of the United States to the amount of the public moneys in
its hands, will be likely to be called on to repay these moneys--at all events during the twenty
years the bonds of the United States will run.

  "I am truly yours,
  "John A. Dix.
"P. S.--I cannot put out my notice for a loan till your state acts,
and the time is very short."

Subsequently I received the following letter:

  "Treasury Department, February 11, 1861, 7 p. m.
"Dear Sir:--My plan for raising money to meet the outstanding
liabilities of the government, and to enable the incoming administration
to carry on its financial operations without embarrassment till it
shall have time to mature a plan for itself, has met with an obstacle
quite unexpected to me.  The committee of ways and means in the
House has declined to report a bill to authorize me to accept the
guaranties voluntarily tendered by the states.  Mr. Spaulding, of
New York, and Mr. Morrill, of Vermont, I learn, have objections.
Unless they withdraw their opposition the bill cannot be reported,
and the plan must fail.  In that case I shall not deem it proper
to ask for a loan of more than two millions to meet the redemption
of treasury notes, which fall due before the 4th of March.  The
state of the country is such that a larger amount thrown on the
market would have a most disastrous influence on the public credit.
I do not think I can borrow two millions at more than 90 per cent.
With a guaranty such as the states have offered, I can get eight
millions at par.  The alternative is to authorize me to accept the
guaranty, or leave the treasury with scarcely anything in it and
with outstanding demands, some of them very pressing, of at least
six millions of dollars, for you and your political friends to
provide for.  If anything is done it should be to-morrow, as I
ought to publish the notice on Wednesday.  Perhaps you can see the
gentlemen referred to to-night and remove their objections.  I am,
very truly, your obedient servant,

  "John A. Dix."

On the 8th of February, 1861, a bill became a law providing for the sale of $20,000,000 six
per cent. bonds, and these were sold at the rate of $89.10 for $100, yielding $18,415,000.

Such was the humiliating financial condition of the government of the United States at the
close of Mr. Buchanan's administration. The expenditures of the government for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1861, were $84,577,258.60, of which $42,064,082.95 was procured from loans
and treasury notes, leaving a balance in the treasury, at the close of the fiscal year 1861,
of $2,395,635.21.  This condition still existed when Congress subsequently met in special session.

Under the sub-treasury laws then in force, the revenues of the government were received and
held only in the treasury at Washington, and in sub-treasuries located in a few of the principal
cities of the United States, and could be paid out only upon the draft of the treasurer of
the United States, drawn agreeably to appropriations made by law.  No money could be received
into the treasury except gold and silver coin of the United States, and such treasury notes
as were receivable for bonds.  State bank notes were not received for government dues.  This
exclusion grew out of the general failure of banks after the War of 1812 and the panic of 1837,
and had caused the outcry in 1840 of:  "Gold for the office holders; rags for the people."
But this policy of the government to receive only its own coin or notes was sustained by popular
opinion.

Silver dollars were not in circulation in 1861.  Their issue was provided for at the beginning
of our government, but, as they were most of the time more valuable than gold coin of like
face value, they were hoarded or exported.  Their coinage was suspended by an order of President
Jefferson in 1805, and after this order only 1,300 silver dollars were coined by the United
States prior to 1836.  From 1836 to 1861 silver dollars were coined in small quantities, the
aggregate being less than one and one-half million, and they were generally exported.  It is
probable that when Mr. Chase became Secretary of the Treasury, there was not in the United
States one thousand silver dollars.  In 1853, and prior to that year, fractional silver coins
were worth for bullion more than their face value, and, therefore, did not circulate.  Small
change was scarce, and fractional notes, called "shinplasters," were issued in many parts of
the United States.  Mexican coin, debased and worn, was in circulation.  To remedy this evil
Congress, by the act of February 21, 1853, during Pierce's administration, prescribed the weight
of the silver half dollar as 192 grains instead of 206¼ grains, fixed by the coinage act of
1792, and the weight of the quarter, dime and half dime of silver was reduced in the same proportion.
As these new coins were less valuable than gold at the rate coined, they were made a legal
tender in payment of debts only for sums not exceeding five dollars.  The silver bullion for
these coins was purchased at market value, and the privilege theretofore granted to a depositor
of silver bullion to have it coined for him was repealed.  This law had the beneficial effect
of driving out of circulation "shinplasters" and worn coins, and supplied in ample quantity
new full weight silver coins of handsome device, the government receiving the profit of the
difference between the market value of the silver and its coinage value. Under this law the
coinage of silver rapidly increased, so that, within two years after the passage of the act
of 1853, more silver was converted into fractional coins and was in active use among the people
than was contained in all the silver dollars coined under "free coinage" from the beginning
of the government to 1878.

While silver was thus made useful to the fullest extent possible, it was, from its weight and
bulk, inadequate and inconvenient for the vast demands of the government during the war.  Silver
and gold together could not meet this demand.  There was known to be in the country at that
time, of specie in circulation, $250,000,000, of state bank notes, $180,000,000, in all $430,000,000.
This amount, experience had shown, was necessary to meet exchanges in ordinary times of peace.
The disturbance of a civil war would likely stimulate production for a time and require even
more circulation for current business.  This circulation, if drawn from its ordinary channels,
would bring no end of confusion and distress to the people, and the government, to meet the
demand occasioned by carrying on a war, must look elsewhere for a circulating medium with which
to meet its enormous disbursements which must necessarily be made almost wholly in actual cash--checks
being, from the character of payments, of little avail.

There was no escaping the issue of credit money in some form, and of whatever form adopted
we knew that gold and silver would soon disappear under the shadow of war--that they would
be hoarded or exported.

This is the universal result of great wars long protracted.  It was our experience during our
Revolution and the War of 1812, and of Great Britain and all European nations during the Napoleonic
wars.  What should take the place of gold and silver for currency? The only answer was to substitute
for the time the notes of the United States, with all the sanction and credit which the republic
could confer, in the place of coin.  We could not, with safety, accept bank notes issued by
state corporations, varying in terms and credit according to the laws of twenty-three separate
states.

To establish a credit of our bonds and notes these measures at least were necessary:  First,
to increase largely the revenues from customs duties to be paid in coin; second, impose all
forms of internal taxes authorized by the constitution; third, create a national currency redeemable
in coin, with no fixed time for redemption, but made a legal tender for all debts, public and
private, except customs duties; fourth, borrow any moneys needed on the most favorable terms
possible.

On the 4th of July, 1861, the Senate convened in compliance with the proclamation of the President,
from whom it received a message containing a clear statement of the events that followed his
inaugural address.

Secretary Chase also submitted to Congress, on the first day of the session, a clear statement
of the financial condition of the United States.  He estimated the sum needed for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1862, at $318,519,581.  He recommended a large increase of duties on imports,
especially upon such articles as were then free from duty; also a direct tax of $20,000,000,
to be apportioned among the states according to population; also a tax on distilled spirits,
ale, beer, tobacco, bank notes, and other articles of domestic production.  He also suggested
the property of those engaged in insurrection or in giving aid and comfort to insurgents should
be made to contribute to the expenditures made necessary by their criminal misconduct.  As
the receipts from taxation would still be inadequate to meet the expenses of the war, he discussed
the best mode and form of borrowing money, including bonds running for a long period with a
fixed rate of interest, and treasury notes bearing interest, payable on demand.

Kansas having recently been admitted into the Union, twenty-three states were represented in
the Senate by forty-six Senators.  Eleven states being in open war against the United States,
twenty-one of their Senators withdrew, but Andrew Johnson, of Tennessee, remained in the Senate,
making the total of Senators forty-seven.  Some of these Senators were new in congressional
life, and some had been transferred from the House of Representatives.  This transfer of a
Member, though eagerly sought, is not for a time agreeable. However conspicuous the Member
may have been in the House, he must take his place in the Senate at the bottom of the ladder,
and, according to Senatorial usage, must be reasonably modest in expressing his opinions. 
The withdrawal of so many Senators in 1861, however, gave the new Members better positions
than usual.  I was assigned to the committee on finance and on naval affairs.

At that time the committee on finance had charge of all bills appropriating money for the support
of the government, all tax or revenue bills, all loan and coinage bills, and, generally, all
bills relating to the treasury department, and to the finances of the government.  It was soon
manifest that, in view of the war, and the enormous sums required to conduct it, the task of
the committee would be a Herculean one, and that the labor required would fall chiefly on Mr.
Fessenden, the chairman of the committee, and, I may with due modesty add, myself.  My former
position in the House of Representatives, as chairman of the committee of ways and means, and
my personal association with Secretary Chase, with whom I was intimate, led to my taking an
active part in financial legislation, which was considered my specialty.  Congress, in substantial
conformity with the recommendations of Secretary Chase, passed the act to authorize a loan
which was approved July 17, 1861, providing for the issue of $250,000,000 of bonds running
twenty years, bearing not exceeding seven per cent. interest, or treasury notes for not less
than fifty dollars each, bearing interest at not less than seven and three-tenths per cent.
annually, and payable in three years, and treasury notes of less denomination than fifty dollars,
not bearing interest and not exceeding $50,000,000, payable on demand, and commonly known as
demand notes.  We knew that this act was entirely inadequate for the great struggle before
us.  The problem was not whether we could muster men, but whether we could raise money.  We
had to create a system of finance that would secure an enlarged revenue, unquestioned credit,
absolute certainty of payment of interest in coin, a national currency, and such economy as
is possible during war.

The first feeble attempt to create a national currency was the issue of demand notes under
the act of July 17, 1861, described as follows:

"And the Secretary of the Treasury may also issue, in exchange for coin, and as part of the
above loan, or may pay for salaries or other dues from the United States, treasury notes of
a less denomination then fifty dollars, not bearing interest, but payable on demand by the
assistant treasurer of the United States, at Philadelphia, New York or Boston."

The fatal defect of these notes was the promise to pay on demand. How could they be paid? 
In what kind of money?  They could not be paid out of the current revenue, for that was insufficient
to meet current expenses.  No reserve was provided for their payment, and, when paid, there
was no authority for their re-issue.  All other forms of securities bore interest, and these
notes, not bearing interest, were convertible into bonds and that was the end of them. If that
was the process why issue them at all?  They did not prevent, but rather expedited, the disappearance
of gold.  Of American silver dollars there were none.  Even the new fractional silver coins
rose to a premium, and were hoarded or exported.  Still, the necessity existed for some form
of paper money that would be available for circulation.  The solution of this problem was properly
left to the next regular session of Congress.

Congress did not act upon the recommendations for internal taxes, but this subject was also
left over until the next session.  It did provide, however, for a large increase of revenue
from imports, mainly upon articles that were then free from taxation and upon articles regarded
as luxuries; also for a direct tax on the states of $20,000,000, and for a graded tax, from
and after the first day of January, 1862, upon the annual income of every person residing in
the United States, from whatever source the income should be derived; if such annual income
should exceed the sum of $800 a tax of three per cent. on the excess above that limit.  A provision
was made reducing the tax on incomes from treasury notes and other securities of the United
States one-half.  The tax on incomes of citizens of the United States residing abroad was placed
at five per cent., except on that portion derived from interest on treasury notes and other
securities of the United States, which was taxed one and one-half per cent.

While Congress was engaged in legislative duties in Washington, the military forces of the
Confederate States were gathering in Virginia, with the principal force at Manassas, about
twenty-five miles southwest of Washington, under the command of General Beauregard.  The Union
troops, composed mainly of three months' volunteers, were in camp occupying the region about
Washington on both banks of the Potomac River, under the immediate command of General McDowell,
but with Lieutenant General Scott in full command. I frequently visited the Union camps where
the soldiers, fresh from civil life and confident of easy success over the "rebels," were being
drilled.  The cry was, "On to Richmond!"  They could not foresee the magnitude of the task
they had undertaken.  I will not attempt to narrate the incidents of the Battle of Bull Run.
I knew it was to be fought on Sunday, the 21st of July.  Soon after noon of that day I mounted
my horse, and with James Rollins, a Member of Congress from Missouri, called on General Scott,
and inquired for news of the battle then going on.  He told us he was quite sure of a favorable
result, but feared the loss of his gallant officers as, the troops being raw, it would be necessary
for their officers to lead them.  We crossed the pontoon bridge from Georgetown, and then,
passing by Arlington, we went to a new fort on the main road from the Long Bridge.  As we approached
we could hear the distant firing of cannon.  We asked a sentinel on duty if he had heard the
sound all day.  He said, "Yes, but not so loud as now."  This was significant but not encouraging.
We returned to my lodgings on Fifteenth street.  Everywhere there was an uneasy feeling.  At
eight o'clock in the morning I started for the residence of the Secretary of War to get information
of the battle.  As I approached I was seized by the arm, and, turning, saw Secretary Cameron.
I asked about the battle, but, without answering, he hurried me into the house and said:  "Our
army is defeated, and my brother is killed." He then gave way to passionate grief.  His brother,
Colonel Cameron, had been killed, and the Union army was in full retreat.  I was enjoined to
say nothing until morning.  I obeyed his injunction. At eleven o'clock that night I heard the
clatter of a horse's feet in full gallop.  My nephew, Robert McComb, a boy about nineteen,
a private soldier in an Ohio regiment, but detailed as an orderly, had been sent to the rear
with a message.  He saw the army in retreat, and, being well mounted and believing that discretion
was the better part of valor, rode rapidly to my lodgings in Washington. It is uncertain whether
he or "Bull-Run" Russell, an English reporter, made the best time to the Long Bridge.  McComb
gave me a doleful account of the battle and retreat.  The official reports from both armies
show that it was a drawn battle.  General Sherman, in his "Memoirs," gives a graphic history
of the battle and expresses the same opinion.

Still, the battle of Bull Run was an important event.  It dispelled the illusion of the people
of the north as to the duration and gravity of the war.  It demonstrated the folly of ninety
days' enlistments.  It brought also, to every intelligent mind, the dangers that would inevitably
result from disunion.  On the 22nd of July, the day after the battle, the bill to authorize
the employment of 500,000 volunteers became a law.

On the 29th of July two bills, one for the increase of the military establishment of the United
States, and one to provide for the suppression of the rebellion, were passed.  On the 5th of
August an act passed for the better organization of the military establishment. Armed with
the largest military power ever conferred upon a President, with the almost unlimited power
of taxation, the administration of Mr. Lincoln entered upon the task before it.

Having passed these provisions in aid of the government, the special session of Congress closed
on the 6th of August, 1861.

I immediately returned to my home at Mansfield.  Regiments were being organized but it seemed
to me that the mode of enlistment was too slow.  The people, though still resolute, were somewhat
troubled by the failure of military operations.  I felt this so strongly that I determined
at once to adopt some plan to raise a brigade to be composed of two regiments of infantry,
one battery of artillery and one squadron of cavalry.  When I made application to Governor
Dennison for the requisite authority, he feared my plan might interfere with existing organizations
then being enlisted in the different parts of the state, and I was persuaded to wait until
after the 15th regiment was recruited and in the field, and the 42nd was well under way.  I
also made up my mind to delay actual recruiting until after the election in October of that
year, so that no political bias might enter into it.

On the 24th of September I addressed a letter to the Hon. Simon Cameron, Secretary of War,
as follows:

  "Mansfield, Ohio, September 24, 1861.
"Hon. Simon Cameron, Secretary of War:

"Dear Sir:--I respectfully ask for an order granting me leave to recruit and organize, in this
part of Ohio, a brigade of two regiments of infantry, one squadron of cavalry, and two companies
of artillery.  I know I can do it promptly.  The squadron of cavalry authorized to Major McLaughlin
may, if desired, be considered as part of the brigade.

"For reasons that are probably unjust the governor and state military authorities are less
successful than I hoped, and I know that I can get you recruits that they cannot.  I wish no
rank, pay, or expenses for myself, and will freely act without compensation.  I care not who
are the field officers, so I know they are men of honor, honesty and experience.  I will only
ask of the department the usual rations, pay and armament and equipage for the men; I ask nothing
for myself, will undertake upon my individual responsibility to purchase any of them desired,
receiving in return government securities therefor.

"I will so execute the order as not to interfere with the state authorities, and will act in
subordination to them.  I will freely confer with the government as to details, but would rather
be left as free as practicable in the selection of officers.

"I hope, my dear sir, this application will receive your sanction, and I will stake my reputation
and property that what I offer shall be accomplished.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman."

On the same day, in order to secure the active co-operation of Secretary Chase, I wrote him
as follows:

  "Mansfield, Ohio, September 24, 1861.
"Hon. S. P. Chase, Secretary of the Treasury:

"My Dear Sir:--I have to-day written to General Cameron, asking an order allowing me to recruit
a brigade in this part of Ohio.  I know I can do it.  I ask no office, rank, pay, or expenses
for myself, and will undertake to recruit this force in subordination to the state and general
government, and within such limits as may be allowed.  Whatever may be the reason, it is manifest
that voluntary enlistment needs the spur of active exertion and solicitation.  This I am willing
to give, and, from offers freely made to me by personal acquaintances, know that I can enlist
hundreds whom the state authorities cannot reach.

"Can I ask your favorable influence and co-operation?  I will pay my own expenses, and ask
only rations, tents and armament for the men.  Any of these I am willing to purchase upon my
individual credit, receiving in payment government securities.  I pledge you my reputation
and all I am worth to accomplish what I offer.

"If it is objected that my operation will interfere with state enlistments, I will agree to
subordinate my movements to the orders of the governor, but for the good of the service I hope
to be left as free as possible.  In the selection of officers I should want to be especially
consulted, so as to insure the honor, probity and personal habits of such officers.  Further
than this I have no choice.

"If this meets your approbation promptly say so to General Cameron, and let him set me to work.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman."

About the same time I had arranged with Governor Dennison for a plan of enlistment which enabled
the recruits to select their officers, by allowing persons securing a certain number of recruits
to be captains, a less number first lieutenants, and a less number second lieutenants.  The
governor very kindly agreed that he would commission the persons selected in this way, leaving
the regimental organization to be composed of the best material that could be found anywhere.
On the 28th of September I issued and distributed, mainly in the region near the line of the
Pittsburg, Fort Wayne & Chicago railroad, this circular:

"TO THE YOUNG MEN OF OHIO.

"I am authorized by the governor of Ohio to raise at once two regiments of infantry and a battery
of artillery, and a squadron of cavalry.

"I am also authorized to recommend one lieutenant for each company, who shall at once receive
their commissions and be furnished with proper facilities for enlisting.  I am now ready to
receive applications for such appointments, accompanied with evidence of good habits and character,
the age of applicant, and his fitness and ability to recruit a company.

"Major Wm. McLaughlin will command the squadron of cavalry.

"The company officers will be designated by the soldiers of each company, subject to the approval
of the governor.

"The field officers are not yet designated, but shall be men of experience, and, if possible,
of military education.

"The soldiers shall have, without diminution, all they are entitled to by law.

"Danger is imminent.  Promptness is indispensable.  Let the people of Ohio now repay the debt
which their fathers incurred to the gallant people of Kentucky for the defense of Ohio against
the British and Indians.  They now appeal to us for help against an invasion more unjustifiable
and barbarous.

"Letters can be addressed to me, marked 'Free,' at Mansfield, Ohio.

  "John Sherman.
"Mansfield, Ohio, September 28, 1861."

The matter thus rested until after the election on the 9th of October, when squads rapidly
formed into companies, and within twenty days Camp Buckingham was opened near Mansfield.

In the performance of this self-imposed duty, I encountered but one difficulty, and at one
time a very serious one, the selection of regimental officers, and especially of commanders
of regiments. I knew that military warfare was an art, a trade, an occupation, where education,
experience and preparation are absolutely essential to effective service.  The materials for
soldiers abound everywhere, but without discipline, order, obedience, and severe drilling men
are not soldiers.  It was my desire to secure for the commanders of regiments two graduates
of West Point.  I made application direct to Washington for various details of officers of
the regular army, so that the soldiers in Camp Buckingham might have experienced drill masters
from the beginning.  I failed to receive an answer, and went to Washington, earnestly impressed
with the importance of my mission, and determined, if possible, that these men enlisted by
me should not be placed in the front of the enemy until they had had all the benefit they could
derive from military discipline and drilling.  When I arrived I found that Secretary Cameron
was indisposed to interfere with the purely military details of the army, while General Scott,
a brave old soldier whom I always loved and admired, was firmly of the opinion that the favorable
result of the war depended upon strengthening the regular army, maintaining its force and discipline,
and especially retaining its valuable officers.  The regular army, almost disbanded at the
beginning of the war, was gradually filling up upon the basis of a new organization and long
enlistments, but it was idle, it seemed to me, to expect that the young men of the country
would enlist in the regular service.  While ready to respond to the call of their country in
its actual peril, they had no purpose to become regular soldiers for life.  It appeared to
me, therefore, that the manifest policy of the government should be to allow the regular army
to be gradually absorbed into the volunteer service, where the young officers educated at the
expense of the government might impart instruction to regiments and brigades, instead of to
squads and companies.  I spoke to General Scott about this, and the result of my interview
was very unpleasant.  I fear we both lost our temper, though I never ceased to respect the
old general for the great service he had rendered his country; but his day was past.

After consulting Major Garesche, Assistant Adjutant-General, as to the names of officers, I
then applied to the President, explained to him fully the situation of affairs, my promise,
the gathering of the soldiers in Camp Buckingham, their inexperience, and want of drill masters,
their ardent patriotism, stated my interview with General Scott, and appealed to him to help
me out of the dilemma.

I never shall forget the interview with Mr. Lincoln, for he did not hesitate, but sent for
Major Garesche, and gave me the coveted order before I left him, directing the Secretary of
War to detail two second lieutenants, James William Forsyth, of Ohio, and Charles Garrison
Harker, of New Jersey, and Sergeants Bradley and Sweet, of the regular army, for service in
the Ohio Volunteers, under my direction.  This order was the key that unlocked the difficulty
and gave to the force the elements of military discipline.  At the same time the requisite
orders were given for uniforms, arms of the best pattern, cannon, horses and various equipments.

I then procured the detail of Major Robert S. Granger, of the United States army, to command
the camp and to organize the force.  He had graduated as a cadet from Ohio, was one of the
officers of the regular army surrendered by General Twiggs to the State of Texas before the
beginning of the war, and had given his parole not to serve in the army until exchanged.  Though
this was not held to apply to the enlistment of volunteers he so construed his parole as to
prevent him from serving in his regiment until duly exchanged. When this was done he entered
the service and was rapidly promoted to Major General of Volunteers.

Within sixty days 2,340 young men of Ohio were formed into the 64th and 65th regiments, the
6th battery of artillery, and McLaughlin's squadron of cavalry, armed with the best arms then
in the service, uniformed, equipped and partly drilled as soldiers, ready to march, and actually
marching, to the seat of war.  No better material for soldiers, and no better soldiers in fact,
ever enlisted in any cause or any service.

I insert a letter from General Garfield written when he was in command of this brigade:

  "Headquarters, 20th Brigade,                             }
  "In the Field, 6 Miles from Corinth, Miss., May 17, 1862.}
"Hon. John Sherman, Washington, D. C.

"Dear Sir:--I am now in command of the 20th Brigade, composed of the 64th and 65th Ohio (the
regiments raised by yourself) and the 13th Michigan and 51st Indiana Regiments.  I have sent
forward to Washington the name of Lt. D. G. Swain (65th Ohio) of Salem, O., for appointment
as A. A. Gen. on my staff.  He is an excellent officer, and his nomination has been approved
by Gen. Buell.  I will be particularly obliged to you if you will aid in securing his appointment
as soon as possible.  The whole army advances toward Corinth this morning.

  "Very respectfully yours,
  "J. A. Garfield,
  "Brig. Gen. Vols. U. S. A."

When General Sherman was in Louisville in October, 1861, he was called upon by Secretary Cameron,
and they engaged in a general discussion of the military situation.  General Sherman said that
for aggressive movements, the United States would require 200,000 men.  This was so far beyond
the ideas of the time that he was regarded as crazy, and was soon after relieved from his command
by General Buell.  Secretary Cameron was blamed for this, but his letter to me, here inserted,
shows that he was absent from Washington when the order was made:

  "War Department, Nov. 14, 1861.
"Sir:--Your letter of the 10th inst. is received.  General Sherman
was recalled from the command in Kentucky during my absence at the
north on official business.  Since my return on the 11th, I have
not had time to make any inquiries concerning the cause of the
change, but I feel certain it was not from any want of confidence
in the patriotism or capacity of your brother.  He has been ordered
to Missouri, under the immediate command of Major General Halleck,
of the regular army, and the fact that he has been so assigned is
evidence of the confidence reposed in him.

  "Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
  "Simon Cameron, Secretary of War."

About this time I had an interview with Mr. Lincoln which may be of interest.  In making the
local appointments in Ohio he was naturally governed largely by his strong affinities for old
Whig associates in Congress, of one of whom, General Schenck, he was especially fond.  I thought
some of his appointments in Ohio were not judicious, and concluded I would go to him and make
a general complaint of the distribution of these offices.  I felt that he failed to consider
the fact that the Republican party contained many men who had not belonged to the Whig party.
I requested an interview with him which was promptly granted, and called at his office one
evening.  He was seated in an easy chair and seemed to be in excellent humor.  I proceeded
to complain of some of his appointments in Ohio and as I progressed the expression of his face
gradually changed to one of extreme sadness.  He did not say a word, but sank in his chair,
placing his feet upon the table, and looking, as I thought, the picture of despair.  I proceeded
with my complaint until I began mentally to reproach myself for bothering the President of
the United States with so unimportant a matter as the choice of persons to fill local offices
in Ohio, when the country was in the throes of revolution.  Finally I told him I felt ashamed
to disturb him with such matters and would not bother him again with them.  His face brightened,
he sat up in his chair and his whole manner changed, until finally he almost embraced me. 
He then told me many interesting stories of his short service in Congress and of the men with
whom he was brought in contact.  The close of the interview was very pleasant and I kept my
promise to him about his appointments.

When Congress convened on the 2nd of December, 1861, the financial condition of the government
was more alarming than at any other period during the war.

The Secretary of the Treasury had ample and complete authority, given him by the act of July,
1861, to borrow money on the credit of the government, but he could not deal with the system
of state banks then existing in the several states.  He was forbidden, by the sub-treasury
act of 1846, to receive notes of state banks and was required to receive into and pay from
the treasury only the coin of the United States; but by the act of August 5, 1861, he was permitted
to deposit to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States, in such solvent specie-paying
banks, as he might select, any of the moneys obtained from loans, the moneys thus deposited
to be withdrawn only for transfer to the regularly authorized depositaries, or for the payment
of public dues, including certain notes payable on demand, as he might deem expedient.  He
had, however, no authority to receive from individuals or banks any money but coin.

The coin received from the Boston, New York, and Philadelphia banks, in payment of their subscriptions
to the government loans, to the amount of nearly $150,000,000, had to be sent to every point
in the United States to meet public obligations, and, when thus scattered, was not readily
returned to the banks, thus exhausting their resources and their ability to loan again.

The demand notes, authorized by the act of July 17, 1861, were also paid out by the treasury;
but from time to time were presented for redemption in coin or in payment of customs duties
to the exclusion of coin, and thus both the banks and the government were greatly crippled,
the banks suspending specie payments on the 30th day of December, 1861.

At this time an army of 500,000 Union soldiers was in the field, and a powerful navy, with
vast stores of artillery and ammunition, had been created.  In providing for their sustenance,
comfort and equipment the government had been obliged to incur expenses far exceeding in magnitude
any which had been hitherto known in its history, aggregating nearly $2,000,000 per day.

It was apparent that a radical change in existing laws relating to our currency must be made,
or the government would practically be unable to make the current disbursements on account
of the war, and the destruction of the Union would be unavoidable, notwithstanding the immense
resources of the country which had then hardly been touched.

The annual report of Secretary Chase reached Congress on the 10th of December, having been
delayed by the press of business.  So much of it as related to the currency was the basis of
the long debates that followed.  The circulation of the banks of the United States on the 1st
of January, 1861, was reported at $202,000,767.  Of this $152,000,000, in round numbers, was
in the loyal states, including West Virginia, and $50,000,000 in the rebel states, the whole
constituting a loan without interest from the people to the banks, costing the latter only
the expense of issue and redemption and the interest on the specie kept in hand for the latter
purpose. The secretary called especial attention to the organization and nature of these banks,
and questioned whether a currency of banks issued by local institutions under state laws was
not in fact prohibited by the national constitution.  He said:

"Such emissions certainly fall within the spirit, if not within the letter, of the constitutional
prohibition of the emission of 'bills of credit' by the states, and of the making by them of
anything except gold and silver coin a legal tender in payment of debts.  However this may
be, it is too clear to be reasonably disputed that Congress, under its constitutional powers
to lay taxes, to regulate commerce, and to regulate the value of coin, possesses ample authority
to control the credit circulation which enters so largely into the transaction of commerce,
and affects in so many ways the value of coin.  In the judgment of the secretary, the time
has arrived when Congress should exercise this authority."

He described with great force the weakness of the state banking system, and the repeated losses
by the people of the United States on account of the failure of such banks.  He recommended
two plans by either of which he held that these banks might be absorbed, and a national currency
be substituted in the place of their issues. One plan proposed the gradual withdrawal from
circulation of the notes of private corporations, and the issue in their stead of United States
notes, payable in coin on demand, in amounts sufficient for the useful ends of a representative
currency.  The other proposed a system of national banks authorized to issue notes for circulation
under national direction, to be secured as to prompt convertibility into coin by the pledge
of United States bonds and other needful regulations.  He discussed these two plans at length,
but concluded by recommending a system of national banks, the advantages of which would be
uniformity in currency, uniformity in security, an effectual safeguard against depreciation,
and protection from losses from discounts and exchanges.  He expressed the opinion that such
notes would give to the government the further advantage of a large demand for government securities,
of increased facilities for obtaining the loans required for the war, a reduction of interest,
and a participation by the government in the profit of circulation without risking the perils
of a great money monopoly.  It will be noticed that the secretary nowhere suggested the suspension
of coin payments, or making the notes a legal tender in payment of public and private debts,
or the redemption in coin of the bank notes to be issued.

These recommendations were referred to the committee of ways and means of the House, and by
it to a sub-committee, of which Elbridge G. Spaulding, of New York, was chairman.  Undoubtedly
we owe to him, more than to any other individual Member, the important and radical changes
made in our currency system by the act reported by him to the House and amended in the Senate.
Mr. Spaulding perceived the objection to the recommendations of Secretary Chase that they did
not provide for any payments but in coin, or call for a suitable provision that the notes when
issued should be a legal tender for public and private debts, or for their reissue in case
of payment, nor did they provide for the absorption of the demand notes outstanding, which
were, on their face, payable on demand, an obligation that could not be ignored without severely
impairing the public credit.  It was also apparent that the system of national banks proposed
by the secretary could not be organized and put in effective force for a year or more, and
that in the meantime the state banks would be in a condition of suspension, without coin or
the possibility of obtaining it, and, with no effective money which the people were bound to
receive, or which the government could receive, it would have been difficult to carry on the
operations of the war.

The first bill introduced by Mr. Spaulding, on the 30th of December, met some of these difficulties.
It also contained this provision:  "Such treasury notes may be reissued from time to time as
the exigencies of the public service may require," the first authority ever given for the reissue
of treasury notes after redemption.

On the 7th of January, 1862, Mr. Spaulding reported the bill to the House with some important
changes, and it soon became the subject of a long and interesting debate.  On the 22nd of January,
Secretary Chase returned Mr. Spaulding's bill to him and suggested some modifications, referring
to the legal tender clause as follows, being his first reference to that clause:

"Regretting exceedingly that it is found necessary to resort to the measure of making fundable
notes of the United States a legal tender, but heartily desiring to co-operate with the committee
in all measures to meet existing necessities in the most useful and least hurtful to the general
interest, I remain," etc.

In a letter to the committee of ways and means, on the 29th of January, the secretary said:

"The condition of the treasury certainly needs immediate action on the subject of affording
provision for the expenditures of the government, both expedient and necessary.  The general
provisions of the bill submitted to me seem to me well adapted to the end proposed.  There
are, however, some points which may, perhaps, be usefully amended.

"The provision making United States notes a legal tender has doubtless been well considered
by the committee, and their conclusion needs no support from any observation of mine.  I think
it my duty, however, to say, that in respect to this provision my reflections have conducted
me to the same conclusion they have reached.  It is not unknown to them that I have felt, nor
do I wish to conceal that I now feel, a great aversion to making anything but coin a legal
tender in payment of debts.  I has been my anxious wish to avoid the necessity of such legislation.
It is, however, at present impossible, in consequence of the large expenditures entailed by
the war, and the suspension of the banks, to procure sufficient coin for disbursements; and
it has, therefore, become indispensably necessary that we should resort to the issue of United
States notes. . . . Such discrimination should, if possible, be prevented; and the provision
making the notes legal tender, in a great measure at least, prevents it, by putting all citizens,
in this respect, on the same level, both of rights and duties."

On the 3rd of February the secretary wrote to Mr. Spaulding as follows:

"Mr. Seward said to me on yesterday that you observed to him that my hesitation in coming up
to the legal tender proposition embarrassed you, and I am very sorry to observe it, for my
anxious wish is to support you in all respects.

"It is true that I came with reluctance to the conclusion that the legal tender clause is a
necessity, but I came to it decidedly, and I support it earnestly.  I do not hesitate when
I have made up my mind, however much regret I may feel over the necessity of the conclusion
to which I come."

On the 5th of February the secretary became more urgent, and wrote to Mr. Spaulding the following
brief note:

"My Dear Sir:--I make the above extract from a letter received from the collector of New York
this morning.  It is very important the bill should go through to-day, and through the Senate
this week. The public exigencies do not admit of delay.

  "Yours truly,
  "S. P. Chase.
"Hon. E. G. Spaulding."

It will thus be perceived that, whatever may have been the constitutional scruples of Secretary
Chase in respect to the legal tender clause, he yielded to it under the pressure of necessity,
and expressed no dissent from it until, as chief justice, his opinion was delivered in the
case of Hepburn vs. Griswold, in the Supreme Court of the United States.

The bill, much modified from the original, passed the House of Representatives by the decided
vote of yeas 93, nays 59.  As it passed the House it contained authority to issue, on the credit
of the United States, United States notes to the amount of $150,000,000, not bearing interest,
payable to bearer at the treasury of the United States, at Washington or New York.  It provided
that $50,000,000 of said notes should be in lieu of the demand treasury notes authorized by
the act of July 17, 1861, and that said demand notes should be taken up as rapidly as practicable.

This bill came to the Senate on the 7th of February.  It was followed on the same day by a
letter from Secretary Chase to Mr. Fessenden, as follows:

"Sir:--The condition of the treasury requires immediate legislative provision.  What you said
this morning leads me to think that the bill which passed the House yesterday will hardly be
acted upon by the Senate this week.  Until that bill shall receive the final action of Congress,
it seems advisable to extend the provisions of the former acts, so as to allow the issue of
at least $10,000,000 in United States notes, in addition to the $50,000,000 heretofore authorized.
I transmit a bill framed with that object, which will, I trust, meet your approval and that
of Congress.  Immediate action on it is exceedingly desirable."

The request for authority to issue $10,000,000 additional demand notes was immediately granted,
and the bill was passed without opposition.

The currency bill was considered in the committee on finance of the Senate, and four important
and radical amendments were reported by that committee.  These amendments were as follows:

First--That the legal tender notes should be receivable for all claims and demands against
the United States, of every kind whatsoever, "except for interest on bonds and notes, which
shall be paid in coin."

Second--That the secretary might dispose of United States bonds, "at the market value thereof,
for coin or treasury notes."

Third--A new section authorizing deposits in the sub-treasuries at five per cent., for not
less than thirty days, to the amount of $25,000,0000, for which certificates of deposit might
be issued.

Fourth--An additional section, No. 5, "that all duties on imported goods and proceeds of the
sale of public lands," etc., should be set apart to pay coin interest on the debt of the United
States; and one per cent. for a sinking fund, etc.

It was felt that if no provision was made for the payment of the interest on the bonds in coin,
they would depreciate more and more, while such payment would tend, as it did, to maintain
them nearer to their specie standard.  These amendments were considered of prime importance.
It was felt that the duty on imported goods should not be lessened by any depreciation of our
local currency.  Such importations were based upon coin values, and the tax levied upon them
was properly required to be paid in coin.  This security of coin payment enabled the government
to sell bonds at a far higher rate than they would have commanded without it, and tended also
to limit the depreciation of United States notes.  The bill and amendments were reported on
the 12th, and became the subject of what was regarded as a very able debate.

There was decided opposition in the Senate to the legal tender clause, headed by Mr. Fessenden.
Mr. Collamer, who also was opposed to it, made a motion to strike it out.  Upon that subject
I made my first lengthy speech in the Senate, a few extracts from which I insert:

"The motion of the Senator from Vermont now for the first time presents to the Senate the only
question upon which the members of the committee of finance had any material difference of
opinion, and that is, whether the notes provided for in this bill shall be made a legal tender
in payment of public and private debts.  Upon this point I will commence the argument where
the Senator from Maine left it.

"In the first place, I will say, every organ of financial opinion --if that is a correct expression--in
this country agrees that there is such a necessity, in case we authorize the issue of demand
notes.  You commence with the Secretary of the Treasury, who has given this subject the most
ample consideration.  He declares, not only in his official communications here, but in his
private intercourses with the members of the committee, that this clause is indispensably necessary
to the security and negotiability of these demand notes.  We all know from his antecedents,
from his peculiar opinions, that he would probably be the last man among the leading politicians
of our country to yield to the necessity of substituting paper money for coin.  He has examined
this question in all its length and breadth.  He is in a position where he feels the necessity.
He is a statesman of admitted ability, and distinguished in his high opinion.  He informs us
that, without this clause, to attempt to circulate as money the proposed amount of demand notes
of the United States, will prove a fatal experiment.

"In addition to his opinion, we have the concurring opinion of the Chamber of Commerce of the
city of New York.  With almost entire unanimity they have passed a resolution on the subject,
after full debate and consideration.  That resolution has been read by your secretary.  You
have also the opinion of the committee of public safety of the city of New York, composed of
distinguished gentlemen, nearly all of whom are good financiers, who agree fully in the same
opinion.  I may say the same in regard to the Chambers of Commerce of the city of Boston, of
the city of Philadelphia, and of almost every recognized organ of financial opinion in this
country.  They have said to us, in the most solemn form, that this measure was indispensably
necessary to maintain the credit of the government, and to keep these notes anywhere near par.
In addition, we have the deliberate judgment and vote of the House of Representatives. After
a full debate, in which the constitutionality, expediency and necessity of this measure were
discussed, in which all the objections that have been made here, and many more, were urged,
the House of Representatives, by a large vote, declared that it was necessary to issue United
States notes, and that this clause was indispensable to their negotiation and credit. . . .

"A hard necessity presses the government.  $100,000,000 is now due the army, and $250,000,000
more up to July first.  The banks of New York, Boston and Philadelphia, have exhausted their
capitals in making loans to the government.  They have already tied up their capital in your
bonds.  Among others, Mr. Vail, the cashier of the Bank of Commerce, the largest bank corporation
in the United States, and one that has done much to sustain the government, appeared before
the finance committee, and stated explicitly that the Bank of Commerce, as well as other banks
of New York, could aid the government no further, unless your proposed currency was stamped
by, and invested with, the attributes of lawful money, which they could pay to others as well
as receive themselves.

"Bonds cannot be sold except at a great sacrifice, because there is no money to buy them. 
As soon as the banks suspended, gold and silver ceased to circulate as money.  You cannot sell
your bonds for gold and silver, which is the only money that can now be received under the
sub-treasury law.  This currency made a legal tender was necessary to aid in making further
loans.  I insisted that the bill was constitutional.  The Senator from Vermont has read extracts
from the debates in the national convention, and from Story's 'Commentaries,' tending to show
that Congress cannot authorize the issue of bills of credit.  But I submit to him that this
question has been settled by the practice of the government.  We issued such bills during the
War of 1812, during the war with Mexico, and at the recent session of Congress.  We receive
them now for our services; we pay them to our soldiers and our creditors.  These notes are
payable to bearer; they pass from hand to hand as currency; they bear no interest.  If the
argument of the Senator is true, then all these notes are unauthorized.  The Senator admits
that when we owe a debt and cannot pay it, we can issue a note.  But where does he find the
power to issue a note in the constitution? Where does he find the power to prescribe the terms
of the note, to make it transferable, receivable for public dues?  He draws all these powers
as incidents to the power to borrow money.  According to his argument, when we pay a soldier
a ten dollar demand bill, we borrow ten dollars from the soldier; when I apply to the secretary
of the Senate for a month's pay, I loan the United States $250. This certainly is not the view
we take of it when we receive the money.  On the other hand, we recognize the fact that the
government cannot pay us in gold.  We receive notes as money.  The government ought to give,
and has the power to give, to that money, all the sanction, authority, value, necessary and
proper, to enable it to borrow money.  The power to fix the standard of money, to regulate
the medium of exchanges, must necessarily go with, and be incident to, the power to regulate
commerce, to borrow money, to coin money, to maintain armies and navies.  All these high powers
are expressly prohibited to the states and also the incidental power to emit bills of credit,
and to make anything but gold and silver a legal tender.  But Congress is expressly invested
with all these high powers, and, to remove all doubt, is expressly authorized to use all necessary
and proper means to carry these powers into effect.

"If you strike out the legal tender clause you do so with the knowledge that these notes will
fall dead upon the money market of the world.  When you issue demand notes, and announce to
the world your purpose not to pay any more gold and silver, you then tender to those who have
furnished you provisions and services this paper money.  What can they do?  They cannot pay
their debts with it; they cannot support their families with it, without a depreciation. The
whole then depends on the promise of the government to pay at some time not fixed on the note.
Justice to our creditors demands that it should be a legal tender; it will then circulate all
over the country, and it will be the lifeblood of the whole business of the country, and it
will enable capitalists to buy your bonds. The only objection to the measure is that too much
may be issued. He did not believe the issue of $150,000,000 would do any harm. It is only a
mere temporary expedient. . . .

"I have thus, Mr. president, endeavored to reply to the constitutional argument of the Senator
from Vermont.  Our arguments must be submitted finally to the arbitration of the courts of
the United States.  When I feel so strongly the necessity of this measure, I am constrained
to assume the power, and refer our authority to exercise it to the courts.  I have shown, in
reply to the argument of the Senator from Maine, that we must no longer hesitate as to the
necessity of this measure.  That necessity does exist, and now presses upon us.  I rest my
vote upon the proposition that this is a necessary and proper measure to furnish a currency--a
medium of exchange--to enable the government to borrow money, to maintain an army and support
a navy.  Believing this, I find ample authority to authorize my vote.  We have been taught
by recent fearful experience that delay and doubt in this time of revolutionary activity are
stagnation and death.  I have sworn to raise and support your armies; to provide for and maintain
your navy; to borrow money; to uphold your government against all enemies, at home and abroad.
That oath is sacred.  As a Member of this body, I am armed with high powers for a holy purpose,
and I am authorized --nay, required--to vote for all laws necessary and proper for executing
these high powers, and to accomplish that purpose.  This is not the time when I would limit
these powers.  Rather than yield to revolutionary force, I would use revolutionary force. 
Here it is not necessary, for the framers of the constitution did not assume to foresee all
the means that might be necessary to maintain the delegated powers of the national government.
Regarding this great measure as a necessary and proper one, and within our power to enact,
I see plain before me the path of duty, and one that is easy to tread."

The motion to strike out the legal tender clause in the bill was defeated by a vote of yeas
17, nays 22.  The amendments proposed by the finance committee were agreed to substantially
as reported by the committee.  The bill finally passed by a vote of yeas 30, nays 7.  The House
agreed to the amendment providing for the payment of the interest on bonds and notes in coin,
and disagreed to the remaining amendments, and these were referred to a committee of conference,
composed of Messrs. Fessenden, Sherman and Carlisle, of West Virginia, of the Senate and Messrs.
Stevens, Horton, and Sedgwick, of the House.  The conference met, and, after two or three days
of full discussion, the material parts of the disagreements between the two Houses were settled.
The provision that coin only be received for duties on imports, and that it be held as a fund
to pay the interest on the bonded debt, was retained.  The report of the conference was agreed
to by both Houses, and on the same day the bill was approved by the President.  Thus, the legal
tender act, after a most able and determined opposition, became a law on the 25th of February,
1862.

It would be difficult to measure the beneficial results that rapidly followed the passage of
this bill.  The public credit was greatly strengthened by the provision for the payment of
interest in coin furnished by duties on imported goods.  The legal tender clause was acquiesced
in by all classes, and we had, for the first time, in circulation national paper money as the
actual standard of value. It was silent as to time of its payment, but each note contained
a promise of the United States to pay a specific sum, and the implied obligation was to pay
in coin as soon as practicable.

On the 11th of July, 1862, a further issue of $150,000,000 United States treasury notes (or
"greenbacks," as they were commonly called from their color) of the same description was authorized,
and subsequent issues increased the total amount to $450,000,000, the extreme limit.  By the
act of March 31, 1863, fractional currency was authorized to an amount not exceeding $50,000,000,
to take the place of fractional silver coins, which had entirely disappeared from circulation,
and this amount was issued.

The passage of the legal tender act was the turning point of our physical and financial history.
Less than a year before the government was bankrupt; our bonds bearing six per cent. interest
were sold at a discount; our national expenditures exceeded our receipts; loans could only
be made upon the basis of coin, and this coin was disappearing from circulation.  We had to
appeal to the patriotism of bankers to accept the demand notes of the United States as money,
with no prospect of being able to pay them.  Our regular army was practically disbanded by
the disloyalty of many of its leading officers.  Washington was then practically in a state
of siege, forcing me, in May, 1861, to go there at the heels of the 7th regiment of New York
militia, avoiding the regular channels of travel.  The city of Baltimore was decked under the
flag of rebellion.  Through the State of Maryland, loyal citizens passed in disguise, except
by a single route opened and defended by military power.  The great State of Kentucky, important
as well from its central position as from the known prowess and courage of its people, hung
suspended in doubt between loyalty and secession. In the State of Missouri, St. Louis was the
only place of unquestioned loyalty, and even there we regarded it a fortunate prize that we
were able to take the public arms from a government arsenal.  The whole State of Virginia,
with the single exception of Fortress Monroe, was in the possession of the revolutionary force.

But from the passage of the legal tender act, by which means were provided for utilizing the
wealth of the country in the suppression of the rebellion, the tide of war turned in our favor.
Delaware, after a short hesitation, complied with the proclamation of the President.  Maryland
had, by clear and repeated votes and acts, arrayed herself on the side of the Union.  Her rebellious
sons who fought against the old flag could not tread in safety on a single foot of the soil
of that state.  Western Virginia, the eastern peninsula, and many ports on the eastern coast,
were securely reclaimed.  The State of Kentucky had distinctly, by the vote of her people,
and by the action of all her constituted authorities, proclaimed her loyalty, and her sons
were fighting side by side with the soldiers of other states to expel traitors who, in her
days of doubt, had seized upon a small portion of her soil, which they still occupied.  In
the State of Missouri the constituted authorities, organized by a convention of the people
duly elected, were sustained by physical power in nearly all the state, and the rebellion there
was subsiding into bands of thieves, bridge burners, and small parties of guerillas, who could
soon be readily controlled by local militia.  In nearly every rebellious state, the government
had secured a foothold, and an army of half a million men, armed, organized and disciplined,
impatiently awaited the word of command to advance the old banner of our country against every
foe that stood in its way.  Where does the history of nations present an example of greater
physical weakness followed so soon by greater physical strength?  When have results more wonderful
been accomplished in eight months?

At the beginning of the year 1862 we were physically strong but financially weak.  Therefore,
I repeat, the problem of this contest was not as to whether we could muster men, but whether
we could raise money.  There was great wealth in the country but how could it be promptly utilized?
To that question the diligent attention of Congress was applied.  The banks which had aided
us with money were crippled and had suspended coin payments.  The Secretary of the Treasury
was begging at the doors of both Houses for means to meet the most pressing demands.  On the
15th of January, 1862, the London "Post," the organ of Lord Palmerston, said:

"The monetary intelligence from America is of the most important kind.  National bankruptcy
is not an agreeable prospect, but it is the only one presented by the existing state of American
finance. What a strange tale does not the history of the United States for the past twelve
months unfold?  What a striking moral does it not point?  Never before was the world dazzled
by a career of more reckless extravagance.  Never before did a flourishing and prosperous state
make such gigantic strides towards effecting its own ruin."

The legal tender act, with its provision for coin receipts to pay interest on bonds, whatever
may be said to the contrary by theorists, was the only measure that could have enabled the
government to carry on successfully the vast operations of the war.  Our annual expenditures
at that time were four times the amount of our currency; were three times the aggregate coin
of the country; were greater than any ever borne by any nation in ancient or in modern times.
The highest expenditure of Great Britain during her war with Napoleon, at a time when her currency
was inflated, when she made the Bank of England notes a legal tender, was but £100,000,000.

Anticipating these enormous expenditures I introduced a bill which became a law on the 31st
of July, 1861, which provided for a commission to examine and report as to the compensation
of all offices for the government, the commission to be composed of two Members of the Senate,
three Members of the House of Representatives, one officer of the navy, and one officer of
the army, who were directed to examine and report, as soon as practicable, a fair and just
compensation for each officer of the government, and such regulations as would secure a more
economical collection of the revenue.  When this bill was pending I stated its purpose and
my hope to accomplish a reduction of the expenditures of the government, or, at least, an equalization
of the salaries then paid to the different officers.  We sought economy by the reduction of
expenses. I was chairman of this commission, and Senator Clark, of New Hampshire, was my associate.
The commission collected a mass of information, and upon it based several bills introduced
in the second session of the 37th Congress.  Some of these were made nugatory by the rise of
prices, measured in most cases by the fall in value of our currency, but many of their provisions
were ingrafted into other bills that became laws.

The organization of national banks, authorized to issue circulating notes, is so intimately
connected with legal tender United States notes that I think it proper to consider them in
connection, though the banking law did not pass until 1863.  The two forms of currency, one
issued directly by the government as lawful money of the United States and a legal tender,
and the other issued by private corporations, but secured by bonds of the United States, constitute
a system of national currency which, organized in the midst of war, was an important aid to
the government in its great struggle, and when placed at par with coin by the resumption act
has proven to be the best paper money created by legislation in this or any other country.

The issue of circulating notes by state banks had been the fruitful cause of loss, contention
and bankruptcy, not only of the banks issuing them, but of all business men depending upon
them for financial aid.  Inflation and apparent prosperity were often followed by the closing
of one bank and distrust of all others.  The notes of a broken bank were rarely paid, the assets
of such bank being generally applied to the payment of other liabilities, leaving the loss
to fall on the holders of the notes, mostly innocent persons of limited means.  This led to
the adoption in 1846 of the sub- treasury system, by which all payments to the treasury were
required to be in coin, to be held until required for disbursements on government account.
This protected the United States, but it did not save the people from loss, as, from necessity,
they were compelled to use bank bills authorized by the several states, varying in value and
security, and chiefly limited in circulation to the state in which issued.  With a narrow view
of the powers of the national government, Congress had repeatedly refused to authorize a national
bank, a policy I heartily approve, not from a doubt of the power of Congress to grant such
a charter, but from the danger of intrusting so vast a power in a single corporation, with
or without security.  This objection did not lie against the organization of a system of national
banks extending over the country, which required every dollar of notes issued to be secured
by a larger amount of bonds of the United States, to be deposited in the treasury of the United
States, thus saving the note holder from all possibility of loss.

Secretary Chase, in his report of December 9, 1861, recommended that a tax be imposed upon
notes issued by state banks and also that Congress should exercise its authority to establish
a system of national banks, with proper safeguards and limitations.  A bill was introduced
for the latter purpose in the House of Representatives in 1861, but, owing to the urgency for
legislation on war measures, it was not acted upon.

Long before I became a Member of Congress I had carefully studied the banking laws of the several
states.  The State of Ohio adopted, in 1846, an improved system of banking.  My study and experience
as a lawyer in Ohio convinced me that the whole system of state banks, however carefully guarded,
was both unconstitutional and inexpedient and that it ought to be overthrown.  When I entered
Congress I was entirely prepared, not only to tax the circulation of state banks, but to tax
such banks out of existence.  But, while this feeling prevailed in the west, the opposite feeling
prevailed in the New England and Middle States, where their banking system had been so improved
that bank failures were rare, and bank bills were protected by mutual guaranties.

The Secretary of the Treasury had, in two annual messages, proposed a tax on the circulation
of bank bills.  He believed that the existing bank circulation prevented or embarrassed the
process of funding, by which alone the bonds of the United States could be absorbed.  He was
forbidden by law to receive bank bills in exchange for bonds or for any purpose, so that the
current money of the people was not available for the purchase of bonds.  This was an additional
argument for taxing the state banks out of existence. I introduced a measure for this purpose
as an amendment to the revenue bill, but it was postponed to save it from defeat.

I introduced a bill in January, 1863, containing two sections, the first to levy a tax of two
per cent. per annum on the circulation of all bank bills, and the second to provide for a tax
of ten per cent. on all fractional currency under one dollar issued by corporations or individuals.
Upon this bill I made a carefully prepared speech, not only defending the proposed tax, but
declaring my purpose to urge a gradual increase of the tax until all state bank bills were
excluded from circulation.  As the reversal of this policy is threatened I feel justified in
briefly restating the argument that induced Congress to deprive all state banks of the power
to issue their bills as money.

I drew the distinction between the ordinary powers of banking and the issue of bank bills.
I said that the business of banking proper consisted in loaning money, discounting bills, facilitating
exchanges of productions by the agency of commercial paper, and in receiving and disbursing
the deposits of individuals.  The issue of bank bills was an exclusive privilege conferred
only on a few corporations. It was a privilege that an individual could not enjoy.  No person
could issue his bills in the form of paper money without a corporate franchise granted him
and his associates, either by a general banking law, or by an act of incorporation.  All the
business of banking might be exercised by private individuals except this franchise.  There
was no reason why any one individual or a partnership might not carry on all the business incident
to banking except this one of issuing bills to circulate as money.  The largest banking houses
in the world did not exercise the privilege of issuing bills.  The strongest banks in the United
States, such as the Bank of Commerce of New York, had but little or no circulation, while the
weakest banks supported themselves and made profit by issuing the largest quantity of bills
authorized.  The law then existing taxed heavily the business of banking proper.  All commercial
paper--checks, drafts, orders, bills of exchange, protests, bonds --every instrument that was
used in the ordinary process of banking --was heavily taxed, while bank bills were not taxed
at all.  A private banker doing business had to pay a license of $100, but a bank of circulation
was expressly exempted from the necessity of procuring a license.  The tax law, as it stood,
had this significant provision:  "But not to include incorporated banks legally authorized
to issue notes as circulation."  Every commercial instrument was required to pay a stamp tax,
but this did not attach to a bank bill.  Bank notes issued for circulation were expressly excepted.
The only tax levied upon banks of circulation was a tax of three per cent. on the net income.
This tax could be deducted from the dividend of the stockholders.  The discrimination in favor
of banks of circulation ran through all the tax laws, while other corporations, such as railroad
companies, insurance companies and the like, were subject to heavy taxes.

The profits of banking were then very great.  The average profits of the banks of New York
were twelve and one half per cent. per annum.  The burdens imposed upon the banks by their
charters were lessened by the suspension of specie payments.  When the banks had to keep in
their vaults coin to the amount of one-third of their circulation, and were liable to be called
upon any day for the redemption of their notes in gold and silver, they might claim exemption
from taxes on their circulating notes.  But during the suspension of coin payment there ws
no such liability.  Whether right or wrong the banks suspended specie payments, and increased
their currency without paying either principal of it or interest, or tax on it, though in direct
violation of law in some states.

I referred in my speech to an interview which was sought by the banks of our chief commercial
cities with the Secretary of the Treasury, to which they invited the financial committees of
the two Houses to hear their propositions for carrying on the financial operations of the government.
We all went to the office of the Secretary of the Treasury, and the proposition was there made
that the United States should issue no paper money whatever, that the specie clause, as it
is called, of the sub-treasury act should be repealed, and that we should carry on the war
upon the basis of the paper money of the banks, legalizing the suspension of specie payments,
and that the government should issue no paper except upon an interest of six per cent., or
higher if the money markets of the world demanded more.  That was their plan of finance, the
plan substantially adopted in the War of 1812, and which had been condemned by every statesman
since that time, a plan of carrying on the operations of our government by an association of
banks over which Congress had no control, and which could issue money without limit so far
as national laws affected it.  That was the scheme presented to us by very intelligent gentlemen
engaged in the banking business.  They were honest and in earnest, but it appeared to me as
pretentious and even ludicrous.

It was claimed that a tax on banks interfered with vested rights. I said that all taxes that
were levied by the government were to maintain vested rights, liberty and life.  All these
corporate franchises were held subject to the power of taxation in Congress, which was sometimes
necessary to be exercised in the most potent manner in order to maintain the government.  The
state could not, by an act of incorporation, place their property beyond the power of Congress.
The only question was what rate of taxation ought to be adopted.  The rate proposed--two per
cent.--I insisted was not too high, because it was only one-third of the profit derived from
the issue of paper money without interest, the principal of which was not paid in coin.  I
stated distinctly that the purpose of the bill was not merely to levy a reasonable tax on the
banks, but also to induce them to withdraw their paper, in order to substitute for it a national
currency.  I then reviewed in considerable detail the history of our currency legislation,
from the act chartering the first bank of the United States to the beginning of our Civil War,
showing the view taken by the most eminent statesmen of our country in favor of the establishment
of uniform national currency as the highest object of legislation.

I said that when coin, the best of currency, was driven out of circulation, by the existence
of war or extraneous circumstances, it was the duty of Congress to provide a substitute.  In
1816 Congress did this by establishing the Bank of the United States. Most of the state banks
shortly afterward exploded, and almost their entire issue outstanding at the time fell as a
loss to the people of the United States.  The Bank of the United States did furnish for a while
a stable currency.  After its charter expired in 1836, the controversy was between gold and
silver, and paper money as a currency.  Nearly all the statesmen of that time believed it was
necessary to have a national currency in some form, but there was a part in the country that
believed the only true national currency was gold and silver coin.  After a controversy that
I would not review, the sub-treasury system was finally adopted. The government had then no
occasion to borrow money.  Its debt was paid off and there was a large surplus in the treasury,
which was distributed among the states.  The agency of a United States bank was no longer necessary
to sustain the public credit.  The object then was to secure a safe deposit and custody of
the public revenues. The state banks failed to furnish a safe redeemable currency.  In 1837
their notes were in the hands of the people, depreciated and dishonored, if not entirely worthless.
Therefore, I thought wisely, the sub-treasury system was adopted, by which gold and silver
coin was the only money received or paid out by the government.  I believed that such was a
true policy in the absence of national banks.  I also stated that if peace were restored to
our country, we ought, as soon as possible, to go back to the basis of gold and silver coin,
but, in the meantime, we must meet the exigencies of the hour.  Paper money was then a necessity.
Gold and silver were hoarded.  War always had led, and always would lead, to the hoarding of
the precious metals.  Gold and silver flee from a state of war. All nations in the midst of
great wars have been compelled to resort to paper money.  It was resorted to by our fathers
during the Revolution.  It was only by the use of paper money that England maintained her wars
with Napoleon.  At several periods during these wars gold and silver were at a greater premium
in England than they were in this country.

I then proceeded to discuss the power of Congress to issue paper money.  I quoted an extract
from the report of Mr. Dallas, in December, 1815, in which he stated:

"By the constitution of the United States, Congress is expressly vested with the power to coin
money, to regulate the value of domestic and foreign coin in circulation, and (as a necessary
implication from positive provisions) to emit bills of credit; while it is declared by the
same instrument that 'no state shall coin money, or emit bills of credit.'  The constitutional
authority to emit bills of credit has also been exercised in a qualified and limited manner. . . .

"The constitutional and legal foundation of the monetary system of the United States is thus
distinctly seen; and the power of the federal government to institute and regulate it, whether
the circulating medium consist of coin or of bills of credit, must, in its general policy,
as well as in the terms of its investment, be deemed an exclusive power."

These extracts from a document of great ability, state the whole question in a few words. 
Congress has the power to regulate commerce; Congress has the power to borrow money, which
involves the power to emit bills of credit; Congress has the power to regulate the value of
coin.  These powers are exclusive.  When, by the force of circumstances beyond our control,
the national coin disappears, either because of war or of other circumstances, Congress alone
must furnish the substitute.  No state has the power to interfere with this exclusive authority
in Congress to regulate the national currency, or, in other words, to provide a substitute
for the national coin.

I next stated the objections to local banks.  The first was the great number and diversity
of bank charters.  There were 1,642 banks in the United States, established by the laws of
twenty-eight different states, and these laws were as diverse, I might say, as the human countenance.
We had the state bank system with its branches.  We had the independent system, sometimes secured
by local bonds, sometimes by state bonds, sometimes by real estate, sometimes by a mixture
of these.  We had every diversity of the bank system in this country that has been devised
by the wit of man, and all these banks had the power to issue paper money.  With this multiplicity
of banks, depending upon different organizations, it was impossible to have a uniform national
currency, for its value was constantly affected by their issues.  There was no common regulator;
they were dependent on different systems.  The clearing house system adopted in the city of
New York applied only to that city.  There was no check or control over these banks.  There
was a want of harmony and concert among them.  Whenever a failure occurred, such as that of
the Ohio Life Insurance and Trust Company, it operated like a panic in a disorganized army;
all of the banks closed their doors at once and suspended specie payments.

Another objection to these local banks was that of their unequal distribution among the states.
In New England the circulation of the banks was about $50,000,000, while in Ohio, a state with
three- fourths of the population of all New England, it was but $9,000,000. The contrast, if
made with other states, was still more marked. I called attention to the fact that the circulation
of banks in the eastern states had then reached about $130,000,000, and of that amount, $40,000,000
was circulating in the west.  If these notes were driven out of circulation and the United
States notes substituted, a contribution would be made to the treasury of the United States
of $2,400,000 a year, for the mere interest of a currency which the west did not prefer, but
was compelled to use.

I called attention to the loss to the people by counterfeiting, which could not be avoided
when we had such a multitude of banks. It then required experts to detect counterfeits.  It
was impossible to prevent counterfeiting.  An expert could save the banks, but the loss fell
upon the people.  By the substitution of national currency we substantially could lose nothing
by counterfeiting. The notes would be few in kind, only three or four of them, all issued by
the United States, all of a uniform character, that could not be counterfeited.  I described,
with some detail, the loss to the people of the United States by bills of broken banks, computed
them to be equivalent to five per cent. per annum of all the bills issued.  On an average,
every twenty years the entire bank circulation ceased to exist or deteriorated.

The loss of exchange from the west to the east on local currency was one per cent.  This loss
was usually made a gain to themselves by the bankers and "shavers."  Under the most favorable
state of trade between the east and west an exchange of one per cent. was demanded from drafts
and bills of exchange.  With a national currency, uniform and equal throughout the country,
this cost for exchange would not exist or would be greatly reduced.  I called attention to
the then increasing volume of local currency in the United States.  When the United States
had issued $250,000,000 of notes, the banks had largely increased their circulation.  This
tended to depreciate both United States and bank notes.

I discussed at similar length the proposition that, as the states were forbidden by the constitution
to authorize the issue of bills of credit, they were equally forbidden to authorize corporations
to issue circulating notes, which were bills of credit.  Upon this point it seemed to me that
the authorities were absolutely conclusive. That position was taken by the most eminent members
of the constitutional convention, by Joseph Story in his "Commentaries," by Daniel Webster,
and other great leaders of both parties since that time.

In speaking of the bank circulation then afloat in the country, he further said:

"It is further to be observed that the states cannot issue bills of credit; not that they cannot
make them a legal tender, but that they cannot issue them at all.  Is not this a clear indication
of the intent of the constitution to restrain the states, as well from establishing a paper
circulation as from interfering with the metallic circulation?  Banks have been created by
states with no capital whatever, their notes being put into circulation simply on the credit
of the state or the state law.  What are the issues of such banks but bills of credit issued
by the state?  I confess, Mr. president, that the more I reflect on this subject, the more
clearly does my mind approach the conclusion that the creation of state banks, for the purpose
and with the power of circulating paper, is not consistent with the grants and prohibitions
of the constitution."

I insisted that if there was no money in this country but United States notes, the process
of funding would be going on day by day. Whenever there was too great an accumulation of these
notes they would be converted into bonds; the operation would go on quietly and silently. 
I quoted the authority of Secretary Chase that it was his deliberate judgment, after watching
this process with all his conceded ability, that but for the influence of this local bank paper
he would be able to carry on the war without the issue of more paper money, that the currency
then outstanding and that which by law he was authorized to issue would be sufficient to carry
it on.  Such a currency would lead to the conversion of the notes into bonds, and by this process
the people would absorb the national loan and enable him to carry on the government without
any sacrifice to them.

It was not strange that Mr. Jefferson, near the close of the War of 1812, stated more clearly
than I could do the conflict between local bank paper and United States notes.  He, who during
his whole life was so mindful of the rights of the states, and so jealous of paper money, in
brief and terse language designated the only way in which our country could carry on war. 
In his letter to Mr. Cooper, dated September 10, 1814, just at the close of the war, he said:

"The banks have discontinued themselves.  We are now without any medium, and necessity, as
well as patriotism and confidence, will make us all eager to receive treasury notes, if founded
on specific taxes.

"Congress may now borrow of the public, and without interest, all the money they may want,
to the amount of a competent circulation, by merely issuing their own promissory notes of proper
denominations for the larger purposes of circulation, but not for the small. Leave that door
open for the entrance of metallic money. . . . Providence seems, indeed, by a special dispensation,
to have put down for us, without a struggle, that very paper enemy which the interest of our
citizens long since required ourselves to put down, at whatever risk.

"The work is done.  The moment is pregnant with futurity, and if not seized at once by Congress,
I know not on what shoal our bark is next to be stranded.  The state legislatures should be
immediately urged to relinquish the right of establishing banks of discount. Most of them will
comply, on patriotic principles, under the convictions of the moment, and the non-complying
may be crowded into concurrence by legitimate devices."

I also quoted another extract to show that this matter filled the mind of Mr. Jefferson.  He said:

"Put down the banks, and if this country could not be carried through the longest war, against
her most powerful enemy, without ever knowing the want of a dollar, without dependence on the
traitorous classes of her citizens, without bearing hard on the resources of the people, or
loading the public with an indefinite burthen of debt, I know nothing of my countrymen.  Not
by any novel project, not by any charlatanry, but by ordinary and well-experienced means; by
the total prohibition of all paper at all times, by reasonable taxes in war, aided by the necessary
emissions of public paper of circulating size, this bottomed on special taxes, redeemable annually
as this special tax comes in, and finally within a moderate period--even with the flood of
private paper by which we were deluged--would the treasury have ventured its credit in bills
of circulating size, as of five or ten dollars, etc., they would have been greedily received
by the people in preference to bank paper."

On the 26th of January, 1863, I introduced in the Senate a bill to "provide a national currency,
secured by a pledge of United States stocks, and for the circulation and redemption thereof."
This bill took the usual course, was referred to the committee on finance, was reported favorably
with a number of amendments, and was fully debated in the Senate.  On the 9th of February,
1863, a cursory debate occurred between Mr. Collamer, of Vermont, and myself, which indicated
a very strong opposition to the passage of the banking bill.  Various amendments were proposed
and some adopted.  I became satisfied that if a strong effort was not made the bill would either
be defeated or postponed.  I then, without preparation, made a long, and as I think, a comprehensive,
speech covering the general subject and its principal details.  It was the only speech of considerable
length that was made in favor of the bill in the Senate.  There seemed to be a hesitancy in
passing a measure so radical in its character and so destructive to the existing system of
state banks.

I said the importance of the subject under consideration demanded a fuller statement than had
as yet been made of the principle and object of the bill.  It was the misfortune of war that
we were compelled to act upon matters of grave importance without that mature deliberation
that would be secured in peaceful times.  The measure affected the property of every citizen
of the United States, and yet our action for good or evil must be concluded within a few days
or weeks of that session.  We were to choose between a permanent system designed to establish
a uniform national currency based on the public credit, limited in amount, and guarded by all
the restraints which the experience of men had proved necessary, and a system of paper money
without limit as to amount, except for the growing necessities of war.

I narrated the history of the bill, of its introduction in December, 1861, its urgent recommendation
by the Secretary of the Treasury in two annual reports, and the conditions that then demanded
immediate action upon it.  I stated the then financial condition of the country.  Gold was
at a premium of between fifty and sixty per cent. and was substantially banished from circulation.
We were in the midst of war, when the necessities of the government required us to have large
sums of money.  We could not choose as to the mode in which we should get that money.  If we
pursued the ordinary course, the course that had been sufficient in times of peace to raise
money, of putting our bonds into the market and selling them for what they would bring, it
would be at a great sacrifice.  We knew this from the history of other nations and from our
own experience.  We therefore must look for some system of finance that would give us all the
aid possible, either in the form of paper money or by the agencies of associated banks.  We
knew very well that after the war was over the government would still be largely in need of money.

I then reviewed the various financial measures since the commencement of the war.  We were
then in the peculiar condition of a nation involved in a war without any currency whatever
which by law could be used in the ordinary transactions of public business.  Gold was withdrawn
by the suspension of specie payments.  The money of the banks could not be used because the
laws of the United States forbade it, and we were without any currency whatever.  Under these
circumstances, Congress had authorized the issue of $400,000,000 of United States notes.  That
this measure was wise but few would controvert.  We were compelled, by a necessity as urgent
as could be imposed upon any legislature, to issue these notes.  To the extent to which they
were issued they were useful; they were a loan by the public and without interest; they were
eagerly sought by our people; they were taken by our enemies in the south, by our friends in
the north; they were taken in the east and the west. They furnished the best substitute for
gold and silver that could then be devised, and if we could limit United States notes to the
amount then authorized by law they would form a suitable and valuable currency.

We had but four expedients from which to choose.  First, to repeal the sub-treasury act and
use the paper of local banks as a currency; second, to increase largely the issue of United
States notes; third, to organize a system of national banking, and fourth, to sell the bonds
of the United States in the open market.  I discussed each of these expedients in considerable
detail.  The practical objection to the further issue of United States notes was that there
was no mode of redemption; they were safe; they were of uniform value, but there was no mode
pointed out by which they were to be redeemed. No one was bound to redeem them.  They were
receivable but not convertible.  They were debts of the United States but could not be presented
anywhere for redemption.  No man could present them except for the purpose fo funding them
into the bonds of the United States.  They were not convertible into coin.  They lacked that
essential element in currency.

Another objection was that they were made the basis of state bank issues.  Under the operation
of the act declaring United States notes to be a legal tender, the state bank circulation had
increased from $120,000,000 to $167,000,000.  The banks sold their gold at a large premium,
and placed in their vaults United States notes with which to redeem their own notes.  While
the government had been issuing its paper money some of the banks were inflating the currency,
by issuing paper money on the basis of United States money.  Illustrations of this inflation
were given of existing banks, showing enormous issues based upon a comparatively small amount
of legal tender notes.  The issue of United States notes by the government, and the making
them a legal tender, was made the basis of an inflated bank circulation in the country, and
there was no way to check this except by uniting the interest of the government, the banks,
and the people, together, by one uniform common system.

I said that during war local banks were the natural enemies of a national currency.  They were
in the War of 1812.  Whenever specie payment was suspended, the power to issue a bank note
was the same as the power to coin money.  The power granted to the Bank of France and the Bank
of England to issue circulating notes was greatly abused during the period of war.  It was
a power that ought never to be exercised except by the government, and only when the state
was in danger.  It was the power to coin money, because when a bank issued its bill without
the restraint of specie payments, it substantially coined money and false money.  This was
a privilege that no nation could safely surrender to individuals or banks. Upon this point
I cited a number of authorities, not only in our own country, but in Europe.  While I believed
that no system of paper money should depend upon banks, I was far from objecting to their agency.
They were useful and necessary mediums of exchange, indispensable in all commercial countries.
The only power they derived from corporation not granted to all citizens was to issue notes
as money, and this power was not necessary to their business or essential to their profit.
Their business connected them with the currency, and whether it should be gold or paper they
were deeply interested in its credit and value.  Was it not then possible to preserve to the
government the exclusive right to issue paper money, and yet not injuriously affect the local
banks?  This was the object of that bill.

But, it was asked, why look at all to the interest of the banks, why not directly issue the
notes of the government, and thus save to the people the interest on the debt represented by
the notes in circulation?  The only answer to this was that history taught us that the public
faith of a nation alone is not sufficient to maintain a paper currency.  There must be a combination
between the interests of private individuals and the government.  Our revolutionary currency,
continental money, depreciated until it became worthless. The assignats of France, issued during
her revolutionary period, shared the same fate.  Other European countries which relied upon
government money alone had a similar experience.  An excessive issue of paper money by the
government would produce bankruptcy and repudiation, not only of the notes abroad, but of bonds
also. The government of the United States had in circulation nearly $400,000,000 United States
notes.  We had a bank circulation of $160,000,000.  If we increased our circulation, as was
then proposed, it would create an inflation that would evidently lead to the derangement of
all business affairs in the country.  Whatever might be the hazards, we had to check this over
expansion and over issue. If a further issue of United States notes were authorized, it would
be at once followed by the issue of more bank paper, and then we would have the wildest speculation.
Hitherto the inflation had not extended to many articles.  Real estate had not been much affected
by it.

The question then occurred whether the bank bill proposed by the Secretary of the Treasury,
and introduced by me into the Senate, would tend to secure a national currency beyond the danger
of inflation.  This, the principal question involved, was discussed at length.  I contended
that the notes issued would be convertible into United States notes while the war lasted, and
afterwards into coin; that the currency would be uniform, of universal credit in every part
of the United States, while the bank bills, which it would supersede, were current only in
the states in which they were issued.  It would furnish a market for our bonds by requiring
them to be held as the security for bank notes, and thus advance the value of the bonds.  The
state bank bills would be withdrawn, and the state banks would be converted into national banks
with severe restrictions as to the amount of notes issued, and these only issued to them by
the general government upon ample security.  The similarity of notes all over the United States
would give them a wider circulation.  I insisted that the passage of the bill would promote
a sentiment of nationality.

The policy of this country ought to be to make everything national as far as possible.  If
we were dependent on the United States for a currency and a medium of exchange, we would have
a broader and more prosperous nationality.  The want of such nationality, I then declared,
was one of the great evils of the times; and it was that principle of state rights, that bad
sentiment that had elevated state authority above the great national authority, that had been
the main instrument by which our government was sought to be overthrown.  Another important
advantage the banks would derive from this system, I urged, would be that their notes would
be guarded against all frauds and all alterations.  There would be but five or six kinds of
notes in the United States, instead of the great diversity there was then.  In 1862 the number
of banks existing was 1,500, and the number whose notes were not counterfeited was 253.  The
number of kinds of "imitations" was 1,861.  The number of kinds of "alterations" was 3,039.
The number of kinds of "spurious" was 1,685.  This was the kind of currency that was proposed
to be superseded.  Under the new system, the banks would be relieved from all this difficulty.

Other advantages to the banks would be that they might become depositaries of the public money,
that their notes, being amply secured, would be received in all payments due to or from the
United States, while the notes of state banks could not be so received, as they were dishonored
and disgraced from the beginning, being refused by the national government.

This is an imperfect view of the question as it was then presented to my mind.  I knew the
vote upon the passage of the bill would be doubtful.  The New England Senators, as a rule,
voted for the bill, but Senators Collamer and Foote had taken decided grounds against it, and
it was believed that Mr. Anthony and his colleague would do likewise.  I informed Secretary
Chase of my doubt as to the passage of the bill, and especially whether Mr. Anthony would vote
for it; without his vote I did not think it would pass.  Mr. Chase called at the Senate and
had an interview with Mr. Anthony, in my presence, in which he urged him strongly, on national
grounds, to vote for the bill, without regard to local interests in his own state.  His remarks
made an impression upon Mr. Anthony who finally exclaimed that he believed it to be his duty
to vote for the bill, although it would be the end of his political career.  When the vote
was taken his name was the first recorded in favor of the bill.  It passed by a vote of 23
yeas and 21 nays, so that I was entirely correct that if he had voted against the bill it would
have been defeated by a tie vote.

These two measures, the absorption of the state banks, and the establishment of the system
of national banks, taken in connection with the legal tender act, were the most important financial
measures of the war, and, tested by time, have fully realized the anticipations and confident
assurance of their authors.

This system of national banks has furnished to the people of the United States a currency combining
the national faith with the private stock and private credit of individuals.  They have a currency
that is safe, uniform, and convertible.  Not one dollar of the notes issued by national banks
has been lost to any person through the failure of a bank.  We have a currency limited in amount,
restrained and governed by law, checked by the power of visitation and by the limitation of
liabilities, safe, uniform, and convertible in every part of the country.  Every one of these
conditions prophesied by me has been literally realized.

Next in importance to a national currency was the problem of the public debt.  The issue of
$50,000,000, demand notes, authorized in 1861, was a forced expedient to meet immediate demands.
A prudent man, engaged in business, would not borrow money payable on call unless he had securities
which he could immediately convert into money.  Such liabilities are proper in a stock exchange
or in a gambling operation, to be settled by the receipt or payment of balances on the rise
or fall in the market of stocks or produce. These demand notes gave Secretary Chase more trouble
than any other security, and they were finally absorbed in the payment of customs duties.

On the 17th of July, 1861, Congress authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to borrow, on
the credit of the United States, within twelve months, $250,000,000, for which he was authorized
to issue bonds, coupon or registered, or treasury notes, the bonds to bear interest not exceeding
seven per cent., payable semi-annually, irredeemable for twenty years.  The treasury notes
were to be of any denominations fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury, not less than fifty
dollars, and to be payable three years after date, with interest at the rate of seven and three-tenths
per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually.  He was also authorized to issue, in exchange for
coin, as a part of the loan of $250,000,000, treasury notes payable on demand, already referred
to, or treasury notes bearing interest at the rate of three and sixty-five hundredths per cent.
per annum, and payable in one year from date and exchangeable at any time for treasury notes
of fifty dollars and upwards.  These forms of security were the most burdensome that were issued
by the government during the war.  The terms of these securities were somewhat altered by the
act approved August 5, 1861.

These laws were superseded by the act of February 28, 1862, which may be regarded as the most
important loan law passed during the war.  It authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to issue,
on the credit of the United States, $150,000,000 of United States notes, commonly called greenbacks,
already described.  Of these, $50,000,000 were to be in lieu of the demand treasury notes authorized
to be issued by the act of July, 1861, above referred to.  It also authorized the Secretary
of the Treasury to issue $500,000,000 of coupon, or registered, bonds, redeemable at the pleasure
of the United States after five years, and payable twenty years from date, bearing interest
at the rate of six per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually.  These are what were known as
the 5-20 bonds.  In reference to these securities, Secretary Chase, in his report of December
4, 1862, said:

"These measures have worked well.  Their results more than fulfilled the anticipations of the
secretary.  The rapid sale of the bonds, aided by the issue of United States notes, furnished
the means necessary for the conduct of the war during that year."

On the 3rd of March, 1863, the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to borrow, from time
to time, on the credit of the United States, a sum not exceeding $300,000,000 for the current
fiscal year, and $600,000,000 for the next fiscal year, payable in coin, at the pleasure of
the government, after such periods as may be fixed by the secretary, not less than ten, or
more than forty, years from date.  These bonds, known as the 10-40's, bearing five per cent.
interest, were exempt from taxation by or under state or municipal authority.  Additional 10-40
bonds were authorized by the act of June 30, 1864.  But it may be said that the 5-20 and 10-40
bonds became the well-known, recognized securities of the United States, the sale of which
at par, in connection with the treasury notes of different forms, furnished the United States
the money to carry on the war.  In the sale of these securities the secretary was actively
assisted by the banks and bankers of the United States, and especially by Jay Cooke, who was
the most effective agent of the government in the sale of 5-20 bonds.

Secretary Chase, in his report of December 10, 1863, discussed at length the objects to be
kept studiously in view in the creation of debt by negotiations of loans or otherwise:  First,
moderate interest; second, general distribution; third, future controllability; and, fourth,
incidental utility.

The first loans were made upon the extravagant rate of interest of seven and three-tenths per
cent.  The reason for this was the fact that there was no currency the secretary could receive
in exchange for bonds.  As already stated, specie payments were suspended by the banks December
31, 1861.  He was forbidden by law to receive bank bills, and he knew that Congress would not
and ought not to repeal this law.  After such suspension coin was scarce and difficult to obtain.
Afterwards, when the legal tender notes were authorized and issued, he sold his bonds bearing
six per cent. interest at par for notes, but these notes had already largely depreciated compared
with coin.  Still, they were money, readily taken for all supplies, and enabled him to sell
securities running a shorter period.  A diversity of securities maturing at different times
were exchanged for notes, and finally he was able to sell five per cent. bonds at par, so that,
on the 30th of September, 1863, two months previous to his report, securities and notes then
outstanding amounted to $1,222,113,559.  The fist bonds were irredeemable for twenty years.
The second bonds were redeemable in five, but payable in twenty, years.  The third bonds, bearing
five per cent. interest, were redeemable after ten years.  It will be perceived that under
this arrangement the rate of interest on securities issued was constantly reduced.  The notes
received in payment of bonds depreciated or advanced in sympathy with the progress of our armies
and the prospects of success.  The general purpose was to secure as low a rate of interest
as possible, to distribute the securities among the largest number of persons possible, to
provide the best mode, time and terms for redemption, and to put the securities in such form
as to be used as a currency.  No one can question the wisdom of the management of the public
debt by Secretary Chase.

The origin and development of the present system of internal taxes must be interesting to every
student of finance.  The policy of the government had been to confine, as far as possible,
national taxes to duties on imports, and, in ordinary times, this source of revenue, exclusively
vested in the United States, together with the proceeds of the sale of public lands, was ample
to defray the current expenses of the government.  During and shortly after the War of 1812
resort was had to direct taxes apportioned among the states respectively, and to internal taxes
authorized by the constitution under the name of excises, but the necessities of the treasury
becoming more urgent, and the reliance on the public credit becoming more hazardous, Congress,
at the special session which convened in May, 1813, determined to lay the foundations of a
system of internal revenue, selecting in particular those subjects of taxation which would
be least burdensome.  These taxes were at first limited to one year, but were extended from
time to time, so that they acquired the name of "war taxes."  A direct tax of $3,500,000 was
laid upon the United States, and apportioned among the states respectively for the year 1814.
Taxes were imposed on sugar refined in the United States, on carriages, on licenses to distillers
of spirituous liquors, and other forms of internal production.  It was estimated that the internal
taxes and the direct tax would yield $3,500,000.  For the fiscal year ending June 30, 1815,
internal taxes yielded $5,963,000.  In 1816 they yielded $4,396,000.  In 1817 they yielded
$2,676,000, after which there was no revenue from internal taxes except from the collection
of arrears, amounting in 1818 to $947,946, the law providing for such taxes having expired
by limitation.  A comparison between the receipts from this source then and the receipts subsequently
derived from internal revenue, is a significant indication of the difference in population
and wealth between 1812 and 1862.

When the Civil War commenced and the necessity of a large increase of revenue became apparent,
Secretary Chase, in his report to Congress of the date of July 4, 1861, called attention to
the necessity of provision for a gradual increase in the revenue to maintain the public credit,
and to meet the current demands.  His recommendation as to internal taxes has already been
referred to. The act of August 5, 1861, previously mentioned, levied a direct tax of $20,000,000
and an income tax.  This act proved to be a crude and imperfect measure, and it was modified
or superseded by the act of July 1, 1862.  This act, carefully framed, was the basis of the
present system of internal revenue.  It created a new office in the treasury department, to
be called the office of commissioner of internal revenue.  No less than thirteen acts of Congress
were passed prior to August 1, 1866, enlarging and defining the duties of the office, and prescribing
the taxes imposed by these several laws.  When this act was first framed we anticipated much
greater difficulties in the collection of the tax than actually occurred. We had doubts whether
the taxation imposed by this law would be patiently submitted to by our constituents, but these
misgivings soon disappeared and the taxes imposed by that act were cheerfully and promptly
paid.  I gave to the study and consideration of this act, and the various amendatory acts,
a large portion of my time. At the end of the war internal taxes were cheerfully paid by the
people, and yielded far more revenue to the government than the customs duties and all other
sources of revenue combined.

The receipts from internal revenue for the first four years under this law were as follows;

  For the year ending June 30, 1863 . . . . $37,640,787
  For the year ending June 30, 1864 . . . . 117,145,748
  For the year ending June 30, 1865 . . . . 211,129,529
  For the year ending June 30, 1866 . . . . 310,906,984

These taxes were mainly upon spirits, tobacco and beer, but they also included stamp taxes
of various kinds, special taxes on particular industries, and income taxes, so that practically
nearly all forms of domestic manufactures were subject to a greater or less tax, according
to the nature of the article.  So sweeping were the provisions that it was frequently a matter
of joke as well as comment.

Some one remarked to Senator Collamer that everything was taxed except coffins.  He rejoined:
"Don't say that to Sherman or he will have them on the tax list before night!"

The general prosperity that existed during the war under such a burden of taxation was frequently
a matter of surprise.  The truth is that all productive industries were active because of the
enormous demand made by the army for supplies of all kinds, and everyone who was willing to
work could find plenty of employment.  The depreciation of the currency caused by the war did
not embarrass anyone, as the interest on securities was promptly paid in coin, and greenbacks
were the favorite currency of the people.  The people did not stop to inquire the causes of
the nominal advance in prices; they only knew that the United States note was cheerfully received
in every part of the United States as the current money of the country.  At the beginning the
tax on whisky was 20 cents per gallon, but it was gradually increased until it reached $2 a
gallon, when frauds and illicit distilling became serious evils.  The tax was then reduced
to 90 cents a gallon.

When I became Secretary of the Treasury, I was impressed with the magnitude of illicit distilling,
even after the rate was reduced. At that time several hundred men, mostly in the mountain regions
of North Carolina and Tennessee, were under arrest for violation of the laws against illicit
distilling.  A delegation of them, accompanied by Senator Ransom, appeared before me, and I
heard their apologies for distilling, and their complaints against the officers.  We entered
into a formal engagement by which they agreed to stop illicit distilling upon condition that
they should be relieved of punishment for their past acts, and, so far as I could learn, they
substantially observed their obligation.  As a rule, they were rough mountaineers who regarded
whisky as a prime necessity of life, and thought they ought to be allowed to convert their
grain into something better.

As the necessity for excessive taxation diminished after the war was over, taxes on various
articles were gradually repealed, until, in 1894, they consisted of practically four items,
spirits, tobacco, fermented liquors, and oleomargarine.  These are the figures for two years:

                       Receipts during fiscal years
  Objects of Taxation.       ended June 30--
                            1893.           1894.
  Spirits . . . . . .  $94,720,260.55  $85,259,252.25
  Tobacco . . . . . .   31,889,711.74   28,617,898.62
  Fermented Liquors .   32,548,983.07   31,414,788.04
  Oleomargarine . . .    1,670,643.50    1,723,479.90

In respect to these taxes, that on oleomargarine was not intended as, nor is it, a very material
revenue tax.  The purpose was especially to prevent the fraudulent imitation of butter by using
an extract of beef.  The tax on spirits, tobacco and beer ought to be retained as the best
objects of taxation either of domestic or imported goods.  Neither of these is an article of
necessity, but all are used purely to gratify an appetite, in many cases indulged to excess.

All civilized nations have come to regard these articles as the best subjects of taxation.
To the extent that whisky is used as a beverage it is hurtful in its influence upon the individual
and upon society at large.  It is the cause of innumerable crimes, of poverty and distress
in the family and home.  Still, it is an appetite that will be gratified, however severe may
be the laws against its use, and while this habit exists the tax upon whisky, by limiting the
quantity consumed, is beneficial to society at large.  It is true that alcohol, the base of
whisky, is useful in the arts and in the preparation of medicines and vinegar.  If some feasible
plan could be prescribed by which alcohol or spirits thus used could be freed from tax, it
would be right to exempt it, but no such plan has been found that includes security against
frauds being practiced to evade the tax on whisky.  The tax on tobacco and cigars is a moderate
one, but the consumption of them is far less dangerous than that of spirits in their influence
upon society. The tax on the cheaper form of tobacco and cigars is comparatively small and
does not add materially to the cost of tobacco in any of its forms.  No complaint is made of
it.  Its consumption is so general that the tax is fairly distributed and falls mainly on the
richer classes, as the tax is increased in proportion to the value of the tobacco.  Beer, a
beverage of almost universal use, yields the large sum of $30,000,000 a year, at the rate of
one dollar a barrel.  This does not cause a perceptible increase of the cost to the consumer,
but rather tends to maintain the good quality of beer by the surveillance of the officers of
internal revenue.  No general complaint has been made of this tax.  All internal taxes are
collected at less cost than any other form of taxation devised, and should be maintained as
long as the expenses growing out of the war shall remain unpaid.

The patience and even cheerfulness with which the people of the United States submitted to
this severe taxation on their domestic productions, was a matter of surprise, not only among
our own people, but in European countries.  In 1867, accompanied by Mr. Adams, our minister
to England, I had the pleasure of breakfasting with Mr. Gladstone at his official residence,
and he referred to the ease with which we collected, without complaint, taxes so burdensome
as ours then were.  He asked me if it was true that we had collected $1,600,000 annually from
a tax on matches.  I told him that we not only did so but that I had never heard a word of
complaint, and the quality of matches was vastly improved while their price was actually reduced.
He threw up his hands and said that the people of England would not submit to such tax and
if any ministry would propose it, it would soon be out of power.  Strange to say an administration
of which Mr. Gladstone was at the head did subsequently propose such a tax, but it was so severely
arraigned that it was at once abandoned.

The income tax, varied somewhat in terms from year to year, continued in force until 1870,
when it was proposed to repeal it as no longer necessary.  By the terms of the then existing
law it expired in 1872.  I urged as strongly as I could its retention at least until the time
expired, but it was repealed.  I then believed, and now believe, that a moderate income tax,
levied on all incomes above the sum of $1,000, or above a sum that will supply the ordinary
wants of an average family in the United States with the necessaries of life, should be levied,
according to the exigencies of the public service.  In the present condition of affairs, I
doubt the expediency of such a tax, especially in view of the decision of the Supreme Court
of the United States recently rendered.

The distinction made by that court between incomes from the rent of land and other incomes
seems narrow and technical.  A tax upon the value of land is a direct tax, and must be apportioned
among the states according to population, but it does not follow that a tax on incomes from
land is a direct tax.  An income means that gain which results from business, or property,
of any kind, from the proceeds of a farm, the profits derived from trade and commerce, and
from any occupation or investment.  In common language the word income applies to money received
from any source.  It may be qualified as gross income and net income.  It may be limited by
words defining the source of the income, as, from land, merchandise or banking, but, in its
general sense, it means gross savings from all sources.  When received in money it is an income
and not until then.  An income tax was paid, and cheerfully paid, by American citizens during
and since the war, in vast sums, and it did not occur to citizen, lawyer or judge that the
constitution of the United States made a distinction between incomes from rents and income
from notes or bonds.  The states tax both land and bonds. Why may not the United States tax
income from each alike?  Many of the largest incomes in the United States are derived from
rents. To except them by technical reasoning from a general tax on incomes will tend to disparage
the Supreme Court among "plain people."  If incomes from rents must be excepted, then no income
tax ought to be assessed.  This decision, if adhered to, may cripple the government in times
of emergency.  If made when the income tax was first imposed, it would have reduced the national
revenue $347,000,000, for no income tax would have been enacted if rents were excluded from
taxable incomes.

I do not propose to narrate the numerous internal revenue laws, which have been enacted and
modified at every session of Congress since 1861, or the innumerable objects of taxation embraced
in them, for such a narrative would fill too much space.  The discussion of these laws occupied
a large portion of the time of Congress. The articles or productions subject to taxation included
for a time nearly everything for the use of man.  I trust the time is far distant when such
sweeping internal taxation will be required again, but if it should come, the Congress of that
day can find in our experience resources more bountiful than Aladdin's lamp.

Direct taxes, to be apportioned among the states, are not likely to be again assessed after
the experience we had as to the last direct tax.  Besides the difficulty of collecting it,
there is the palpable objection that it is an unequal, and therefore an unjust, tax.  New states,
and especially agricultural states, have not the same ability to pay direct taxes as older
commercial and manufacturing states, having within them great cities with accumulated wealth,
in the form of stocks, bonds and patents.

The office of commissioner of internal revenue has fortunately been filled, as a rule, by gentlemen
of standing and character of a high order of intelligence, and their work has been of great
service to the United States.  This important bureau ought to be, and no doubt will be, retained
as a part of the organized machinery of the government, and the taxes collected by it will
be necessary as long as our public debt remains, and until the list of pensioners will be obliterated
by the hand of time.

Another question of grave political significance was presented to the 37th Congress early in
this session, that of the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia.  I had from the
beginning declared my opposition to any interference with slavery in the District, but the
changed condition of the country demanded a change of public policy in this respect.  Slavery
was made the pretext for, and, I believe, was, the real cause of the war.  It had a foothold
in the District of Columbia, but it existed there in its mildest form.  By the census of 1860
there were, in the District of Columbia, 11,107 free negroes, 3,181 slaves, and 60,785 white
people.  It was considered the paradise of free negroes, where they were almost exclusively
employed as laborers in household service.

When the war broke out a considerable number of slaves ran away from disloyal masters in Virginia
and Maryland, seeking safety within our lines and finding employment in the District of Columbia.
As the war approached, most of the slaves in the District were carried away by their owners
into Virginia, and other southern states, so that in 1862 it was estimated there were not more
than 1,500, and probably not 1,000, slaves in the District, while the number of free negroes
increased to 15,000.  As a matter of course, when Virginia seceded no attempt was made to recapture
runaway slaves from that state, and they became practically free.  It was known that there
was at that time a strong disposition in Maryland to try the experiment of emancipation, and
it was believed that after the war was over Virginia would adopt the same policy.  Little doubt
was felt as to the power of Congress to abolish slavery in the District, should such a course
be deemed expedient. This power had been recognized by the most eminent statesmen of our country,
and also by the Supreme Court of the United States. Until Mr. Calhoun doubted or denied the
power it was not questioned by any considerable number.  The real question was whether that
was the time for emancipation.  I endeavored to give to the subject careful consideration,
and came to the conclusion that it was expedient then to emancipate the very few slaves in
the District, fewer than there had been at any time within forty years, and fewer than would
likely be in case the war should end.  I believed also that the social influence of Washington,
and the wealth and property controlled and owned in a great measure by slaveholding residents
there, had been always against the government of the United States and in favor of the Rebellion.
While slavery existed it was a constant source of annoyance and irritation.  The great mass
of our constituents were opposed to slavery, morally, socially and politically.  They felt
it was wrong and would not change their opinion.  As long as slavery existed in the District,
where Congress had the power to abolish it, agitation and excitement would be ceaseless.  The
great body of the people of the northern states were opposed to the institution theoretically,
as were very many of the most intelligent people of the southern states.  I felt that now was
the time when this moral conviction should be heard and heeded by the national legislature.
I felt that we were bound to consult the material interest of the people of the District, and
that emancipation would add to the value of their property and also add to the population of
the city.  The abolition of slavery would bring to the city intelligent mechanics and laboring
men who would never compete with the labor of slaves, and who, finding none there but freemen,
would develop the great advantages of the city.  In a speech I made upon the subject I enlarged
upon this consideration and said:

"I see no reason why Washington, with a free population and as a free city, situated here at
the head of the Potomac, with remarkable facilities of navigation, with great conveniences
of communication, reaching to the west by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, the political capital
of the country, might not be a great free city, illustrating by its progress the operation
of free institutions. But it can only be done by the active, interested labor of free people.
Simply as a municipal regulation it would be wise to abolish slavery in this district, because
slavery is opposed to the moral convictions of the great mass of the people of this country,
and the existence of slavery here keeps out of this District an active, loyal, true, manly,
generous body of laborers, who will never compete in their labor with the labor of slaves."

There was another reason why the experiment of emancipation could be best tried in the District
of Columbia.  Emancipation was evidently the ultimate end of this question.  We had the power
to try the experiment.  It would be an example likely to be followed at the close of the war
by many of the border states.  I therefore made up my mind in favor of the measure, made a
long speech for the bill and voted for it.  It became a law on April 10, 1862.

At that early day, I believed that it was the duty of Congress to confiscate the slaves in
the seceding states as the natural result of the war.  These states had placed themselves in
a position by rebellion where they had no constitutional rights which we were bound to observe.
The war being open and flagrant to break up the Union, they were not entitled to the benefit
of any stipulation made in their favor as states in the Union.  I also favored the granting
of aid to any policy of emancipation that might be adopted in the border states of Maryland,
Kentucky and Missouri, but Congress was indisposed to extend the provisions of the then pending
measure beyond the District of Columbia.

This was the beginning of the end of slavery.

In following the important financial measures of the 37th Congress, I have purposely passed
by, in their order of time, other measures of vital interest that were acted upon in that Congress.
The military measures adopted were on the same grand scale as the financial measures I have
referred to.  In 1861 the United States contained a population of 32,000,000 people, of whom
about 10,000,000 were in the seceding states, some of whom were opposed to secession, but a
greater number living in states that did not secede were in hearty sympathy with the rebellion.
No preparation for war had been made in any of the loyal states, while in the disloyal states
preparations had been made by the distribution of arms through the treachery of Secretary Floyd.
When the seceding states organized a confederate government, the executive branch of the general
government was under the management and control of those who favored the rebellion, or were
so feeble or indifferent that they offered no resistance whatever to such organization.  The
President of the United States declared, in an executive message, that the general government
had no power to coerce a state.  On the accession of President Lincoln, the confederate government
was better organized for resistance than the Union was for coercion.  When war actually commenced,
the capital at Washington was practically blockaded, and in the power of the Confederates.

The response of the loyal states to the call of Lincoln was perhaps the most remarkable uprising
of a great people in the history of mankind.  Within a few days the road to Washington was
opened, but the men who answered the call were not soldiers, but citizens, badly armed, and
without drill or discipline.  The history of their rapid conversion into real soldiers, and
of the measures adopted by Congress to organize, arm and equip them, does not fall within my
province.  The battles fought, the victories won, and the defeats suffered, have been recorded
in the hundred or more volumes of "The Records of the Rebellion," published by the United States.
The principal events of the war have been told in the history of Abraham Lincoln by Nicolay
and Hay, and perhaps more graphically by General Grant, General Sherman, General Sheridan,
Alexander H. Stephens, Fitz Hugh Lee, and many others who actively participated in the war,
and told what they saw and knew of it.

The military committees of the two Houses, under the advice of accomplished officers, formulated
the laws passed by Congress for the enlistment, equipment and organization of the Union armies.
Henry Wilson, of Massachusetts, was chairman of the committee on military affairs of the Senate,
and he is entitled to much of the praise due for the numerous laws required to fit the Union
citizen soldiers for military duty.  His position was a difficult one, but he filled it with
hearty sympathy for the Union soldiers, and with a just regard for both officers and men. 
It was founded on the faulty idea that a territorial war, existing between two distinct parts
of the country, could be treated as an insurrection. The law of nations treats such a war as
a contest between two separate powers, to be governed by the laws of war.  Confiscation in
such a war is not a measure to be applied to individuals in a revolting section, but if the
revolt is subdued, the property of revolting citizens is subject to the will of the conqueror
and to the law of conquest.  The apparent object of the law referred to was to cripple the
power of the Confederate States, by emancipating slaves held in them, whenever such states
fell within the power of the federal army.  This object was accomplished in a better and more
comprehensive way by the proclamation of the President.  The confiscation act had but little
influence upon the result of the war, except that it gathered at the wake of our armies in
the south a multitude of negroes called "contrabands," who willingly performed manual labor,
but were often an incumbrance and had to be fed and protected.

The freedom of these "contrabands" was the result of the war, and not of the confiscation act.
In the later period of the war, they, in common with the free negroes from the north, were
organized into regiments commanded by white men, and rendered valuable service to the Union cause.

When the confiscation bill was pending, on the 23rd of April, 1862, I made a speech in support
of an amendment offered by me and in substance adopted.  A few extracts of my speech will show
my opinions on this subject:

"Confiscation is not only justified by the laws of war, by the practice of many nations, but
it is practiced by our enemies in the most obnoxious way.  They seize all kinds of property
of loyal citizens; they destroy contracts; confiscate debts.  All the property of citizens
of loyal states which is within a disloyal state is seized without exception, and that whether
such citizen has aided the government or not.  They also seize the property of all citizens
in disloyal states who will not commit an act of treason by aiding them.  Yet they profess
to be governed by a constitution similar to the constitution of the United States, so far as
it relates to the rights of person and property.  They draw the distinction between the laws
of war and the laws of peace. . . .

"Sir, it is time there was an end of this.  We are at war.  We must destroy our enemies or
they will destroy us.  We must subdue their armies and we must confiscate their property. 
The only question with me is as to the best measure of confiscation.  That some one should
be enacted, and that speedily, is not only my conviction of duty, but it will be demanded by
those who will have to bear the burdens of the war.  Now, it is the interest of every citizen
in a seceding state to be a rebel.  If a patriot, his property is destroyed.  If a rebel, his
property is protected alike by friend and foe.  Now, the burdens of war will fall, by heavy
taxation, upon loyal citizens, but rebels are beyond our reach.  How long can we conduct such
a war?  Sir, we have been moderate to excess. War is a horrible remedy, but when we are compelled
to resort to it, we should make our enemies feel its severity as well as ourselves. . . .

"If too much is attempted in the way of confiscation, nothing will be accomplished.  If nothing
is confiscated, you array against you all who wish in a civil war merely to preserve their
property and to remain quiet.  This is always a large class in every community. If rebellion
will secure their property from rebels and not endanger it to the government, they are rebels.
Those whose position or character have secured them offices among the rebels can only be conquered
by force.  Is it not, therefore, possible to frame a bill which will punish the prominent actors
in the rebellion, proclaim amnesty to the great mass of citizens in the seceding states, and
separate them from their leader?  This, in my judgment, can be done by confining confiscation
to classes of persons.  The amendment I propose embraces five classes of persons."

The confiscation act was more useful as a declaration of policy than as an act to be enforced.
It was denounced by the Confederates and by timid men in the north, but the beneficial results
it aimed at were accomplished, not by law, but by the proclamation of the President and by
the armed forces of the United States.

The several acts providing for enrolling and calling out the national forces gave rise to much
debate, partly upon sectional lines.  The policy of drafting from the militia of the several
states, the employment of substitutes and the payment of bounties, were contested and defended.
I insisted that if a special fund for hiring substitutes was raised, it ought to be by a tax
upon all wealthy citizens, and not confined to the man who was drafted.  These and numerous
questions of a similar character occupied much time, and created much feeling.  It is now hardly
worth while, in view of the results of the war, to revive old controversies.  It is sufficient
to say that all the laws passed to organize the national forces and call out the militia of
the several states in case of emergency contributed to the success of the Union armies.  I
do not recall any example in history where a peaceful nation, ignorant of military discipline,
becoming divided into hostile sections, developed such military power, courage and endurance
as did the United States and Confederate States in our Civil War.  Vast armies were raised
by voluntary enlistments, great battles were fought with fearful losses on both sides, and
neither yielded until the Confederates had exhausted all their resources and surrendered to
the Union armies without conditions, except such as were dictated by General Grant --to go
home and be at peace.

During the entire war Washington was a military camp.  Almost every regiment from the north
on the way to the army in Virginia stopped for a time in Washington.  This was especially the
case in 1861. It was usual for every new regiment to march along Pennsylvania Avenue to the
White House.  Among the early arrivals in the spring of 1861 was a regiment from New Hampshire,
much better equipped than our western regiments.  My colleague, Ben Wade, and I went to the
White House to see this noted regiment pass in review before Mr. Lincoln.  As the head of the
line turned around the north wing of the treasury department and came in sight, the eyes of
Wade fell upon a tall soldier, wearing a gaudy uniform, a very high hat, and a still higher
cockade.  He carried a baton, which he swung right and left, up and down, with all the authority
of a field marshal. Wade, much excited, asked me, pointing to the soldier:  "Who is that?"
I told him I thought that was the drum major.  "Well," he said, "if the people could see him
they would make him a general." So little was then known of military array by the wisest among
our Senators.

It was quite a habit of Senators and Members, during the war, to call at the camps of soldiers
from their respective states. Secretary Chase often did this and several times I accompanied
him. The "boys," as they preferred to be called, would gather around their visitors, and very
soon some one would cry out "a speech, a speech," and an address would usually be made.  I
heard very good speeches made in this way, and, in some cases, replied to by a private soldier
in a manner fully as effective as that of the visitor.

In the early period of the war the private soldier did not forget that he was as good as any
man.  One evening Major, afterwards Major-General, Robert S. Granger and I were strolling through
"Camp Buckingham," near Mansfield, Ohio, and came to a young soldier boiling beans.  He was
about to take them off the fire when Granger said:  "My good fellow, don't take off those beans;
they are not done."  The young soldier squared himself and with some insolence said:  "Do you
think I don't know how to boil beans?"  Granger, with great kindness of manner, said:  "If
you had eaten boiled beans in the army as many years as I have you would know it is better
to leave them in the pot all night with a slow fire."  The manner of Granger was so kindly
that the soldier thanked him and followed his advice.  General Granger died at Zanesville,
Ohio, April 25, 1894, after having been on the retired list for over twenty-one years.  He
was a gallant, as well as a skillful, officer. Peace to his memory.

It was my habit, while Congress was in session during the war, to ride on horseback over a
region within ten miles of Washington, generally accompanied by some army officer.  I became
familiar with every lane and road, and especially with camps and hospitals.  At that time it
could be truly said that Washington and its environs was a great camp and hospital.  The roads
were generally very muddy or exceedingly dusty.  The great army teams cut up and blocked the
roads which were either of clay or sand, but the air was generally refreshing and the scenery
charming.  I do not know of any city that has more beautiful environs, with the broad Potomac
at the head of tide water, the picturesque hills and valleys, the woodland interspersed with
deciduous and evergreen trees, the wide landscape, extending to the Blue Ridge on the west,
the low lands and ridges of Maryland and the hills about Mt. Vernon.  The city of Washington,
however, was then far from attractive.  It was an overgrown village, with wide unpaved avenues
and streets, with 61,000 inhabitants badly housed, hotels and boarding houses badly kept, and
all depending more or less upon low salaries, and employment by the government.  All this has
been changed.  The streets and avenues have been paved and extended.  The old site is now well
filled with comfortable mansions and business blocks, and a large portion of the District outside
the city is being occupied with villas and market gardens.  The mode of living has greatly
changed.  Before and during the war, Senators and Members lived in boarding houses in messes,
formed of families of similar tastes and opinions. Society, if it may be so called, was chiefly
official, of which justices of the Supreme Court and cabinet officers were the head, and Senators
and Members of Congress were the most numerous guests.

When I entered Congress my pay as a Member was $8 a day during the season, and it was said
we had "roast beef;" but we paid for it if we had it.  At the close of the 34th Congress the
compensation was increased to $3,000 a year.  During the latter part of the war and afterwards,
prices of food, board and lodging were considerably advanced.

In 1864 I offered the proprietor of Willard's Hotel my monthly pay of $250 for board and lodgings,
in very modest quarters, for my wife and myself, but he demanded $300 a month.  This led me
to purchase a house in which to live, a change which I have never regretted.  It was quite
the fashion then for the old families, who were in full sympathy with the Confederates, to
underrate property (even their own) in Washington, on the ground that when the Confederacy
was acknowledged the capital would be removed, and real estate could, therefore, be obtained
upon very reasonable terms.

After the war the feverish revival of business growing out of our expanded currency led to
such reckless extravagance in improvements by public officials in Washington that for a time
it threatened the bankruptcy of the city, but, as this leads me in advance of events, I will
recur hereafter to the Washington of to-day.

During 1870 Congress passed a law increasing the compensation of Senators and Members from
$3,000 to $5,000 a year, and justified this increase by the inflated prices of everything measured
by a depreciated currency.  There would have been but little complaint of this by the people
had not the law been made retroactive.  It was made to take effect at the beginning of that
Congress, though when the law was passed Congress was nearly ended.  This "back pay," amounting
to over $3,000, was very unpopular, and led to the defeat of many Members who voted for it.
At home they were called "salary grabbers."  Several Senators and Members, I among the number,
declined to receive the back pay.  But it was said that the Congressmen could apply for it
at any time in the future when the excitement died away.  This led me to write Francis E. Spinner,
Treasurer of the United States, to ascertain how I could cover into the treasury my back pay.
His answer was characteristic, and is here inserted.  Spinner, long since dead, was a peculiar
character. He was with me in the House of Representatives, was appointed Treasurer of the United
States by President Lincoln, and continued as such until 1875.  He was a typical officer, bold,
firm and honest.  He was also a true friend, a model of fidelity and courage.

  "Treasury of the United States,}
  "Washington, July 3, 1873.     }
"My Dear Sir:--Your letter of the 28th ultimo has been received.

"I sympathize with you most fully.  I too have had my share of lies told on me, by Dana and
his 'Sun,' and shall be disappointed if the libels are not continued, especially if I do right.
Really you have a white elephant on your hands.  You can neither take the back pay, nor leave
it where it is, nor draw it and redeposit it, without subjecting yourself to the yelping of
the damned curs, that bark at the heels of every honest man.

"If you will turn to the proviso in Section 5, of the General Appropriation Bill, approved
July 12, 1870, at page 251, volume 16, of the Statutes at Large, you will, I think, be satisfied
that your back pay would never lapse to the treasury.  Should you leave it, as it now is, I
think it would at all times be subject to your order, and to the order of your heirs afterwards.
The department has decided that the appropriations for the pay of Members of Congress is permanent.
The papers say that the Comptroller has decided that the back pay would lapse in two years.
I called on him to-day, and he furnished me with a copy of his opinion, which is herewith inclosed
you, and wrote me a note, a copy of which is also inclosed, in which he says--'it could not
be carried back until after two years; whether it can be carried back is another question,
which I do not intend to decide.'  There are two ways that the amount can be carried back into
the treasury:  First, by drawing out the amount, and redepositing it; and second, by directing
the secretary of the senate, by written order, to turn the amount into the treasury.  I, of
course, can't advise you what to do.

  "Very respectfully yours,
  "F. E. Spinner, Tr., U. S.
"Hon. John Sherman, Mansfield, Ohio."

In the spring of 1863, the financial operations of the government were eminently successful.
In the fall of 1862, Secretary Chase endeavored to sell the $500,000,000 5-20 six per cent.
bonds, authorized by the act of February 25, 1862, through experienced officers in New York,
and could not get par for them.  He then employed Jay Cooke, of Philadelphia, to take charge
of this loan, and within a year it was sold by him, to parties all over the country, at par.
The entire cost of placing the loan was less than three-eighths of one per cent.  It furnished
the greater part of the means necessary to conduct the war during 1863.

The early victories of Grant and Forts Henry and Donelson had rescued Kentucky, and opened
up the Cumberland and Tennessee Rivers to the heart of the south.  The battle of Shiloh, though
won at a great sacrifice, inspired the western army with confidence, and gave General Sherman
his first opportunity to prove his ability as a soldier.  The timid handling of that army by
Halleck and its subsequent dispersion by his orders, and the general operations of both the
armies in the west and in Virginia, created a feeling of despondency in the loyal states which
was manifested in the election in the fall of 1862.  The military operations in the early part
of 1863 did not tend to restore confidence.

At this period I received the following letter from Secretary Stanton, which evidenced his
appreciation of General Sherman:

  "Washington, D. C., December 7, 1862.
"Hon. John Sherman.

"Dear Sir:--The general's letter is returned herewith, having been read with much interest
and great admiration of his wisdom and patriotism.  If our armies were commanded by such generals
we could not fail to have a speedy restoration of the authority of the government, and an end
of the war.

"I beg you to give him my warmest regards, and no effort of mine will be spared to secure to
the government the fullest exercise of his abilities.  With thanks for the favor, I am,

  "Yours truly,
  "Edwin M. Stanton."

The attack by General Sherman upon the defenses of Vicksburg had been repulsed, but the effect
of this had been counteracted by the capture of Arkansas post with over 5,000 prisoners.  General
Grant had failed in his operations in Mississippi.  General Hooker had been defeated at Chancellorsville,
and Lee was preparing to make an advance into Maryland and Pennsylvania.

On May 1, 1863, Clement L. Vallandigham, for several years a Member of Congress from Ohio,
in a speech made at Mount Vernon, denounced the government with great violence, and, especially,
an order issued by General Ambrose E. Burnside, commanding the department of the Ohio, announcing
that "all persons, found within our lines, who commit acts for the benefit of the enemies of
our country, will be tried as spies or traitors, and if convicted will suffer death." Burnside
enumerated among the things which came within his order, the writing or carrying of secret
letters, passing the lines for treasonable purposes, recruiting for the Confederate service.
He said:  "The habit of declaring sympathy for the enemy will not be allowed in this department;
persons committing such offenses will be at once arrested, with a view to being tried or sent
beyond our lines into the lines of their friends."

Vallandigham denounced this order as a base usurpation of arbitrary power; said that he despised
it, and spat upon it, and trampled it under his foot.  He denounced the President, and advised
the people to come up together at the ballot box and hurl the tyrant from his throne.  Many
of his hearers wore the distinctive badges of "copperheads" and "butternuts," and, amid cheers
which Vallandigham's speech elicited, was heard a shout that Jeff. Davis was a gentleman, which
was more than Lincoln was.

This speech was reported to General Burnside.  Early on the 4th of May a company of soldiers
was sent to arrest Vallandigham, and the arrest was made.  Arriving at Cincinnati, he was consigned
to the military prison and kept in close confinement.  This event caused great excitement,
not only in Cincinnati, but throughout the State of Ohio.  On the evening of that day a great
crowd assembled at Dayton, and several hundred men moved, hooting and yelling, to the office
of the Republican newspaper, and sacked and then destroyed it by fire.  Vallandigham was tried
by a military commission, which promptly sentenced him to be placed in close confinement in
some fortress of the United States, to be designated by the commanding officer of the department,
there to be kept during the continuance of the war.  Such an order was made by General Burnside,
but it was subsequently modified by Mr. Lincoln, who commuted the sentence of Vallandigham,
and directed that he be sent within the Confederate lines.  This was done within a fortnight
after the court-martial. Vallandigham was sent to Tennessee, and, on the 25th of May, was escorted
by a small cavalry force to the Confederate lines near Murfreesboro, and delivered to an Alabama
regiment.

Vallandigham made a formal protest that he was within the Confederate lines by force, and against
his will, and that he surrendered as a prisoner of war.  His arrest for words spoken, and not
for acts done, created great excitement throughout Ohio and the country. A public meeting was
held in New York on May 16, which denounced this action as illegal--as a step towards revolution.
The Democratic leaders of Ohio assumed the same attitude, and made a vigorous protest to the
President.  It is not necessary to state this incident more fully.  Nicolay and Hay, in their
history of Lincoln, narrate fully the incidents connected with this arrest, and the disposition
of Vallandigham.  The letters of the President in reply to Governor Seymour, and to the meeting
in Ohio, are among the most interesting productions of Mr. Lincoln.  He doubted the legality
of the arrest.  He had suspended the privileges of that writ upon the happening of contingencies
stated in the constitution and, therefore, the commanding officer was justified in making the
arrest, and he did not deem it proper to interfere with the order of the commanding officer.

This incident was made more important when, on the 11th of June, the Democratic convention
of the State of Ohio met at Columbus and there formally nominated Vallandigham as the candidate
of that party for Governor of Ohio.  This presented directly to the people of that state the
question of the legality and propriety of the arrest of Vallandigham.  The Republican party
subsequently met and nominated for governor John Brough, a lifelong Democrat, but in through
sympathy with the Union cause.

It is difficult, now, to describe the intense excitement in Ohio over the issue thus made--at
times breaking into violence. Vallandigham was received with great favor in the different cities
of the south, and finally, embarking on board of a vessel which ran the blockade at Wilmington,
he arrived at Bermuda on the 22nd of June, from which place he took passage to Canada, arriving
at Niagara Falls about the middle of July.

The feeling of anger and excitement among the loyal people of Ohio increased, so that it was
manifest that if Vallandigham entered the state he would be in great danger, and a quasi civil
war might have arisen.  I heard men of character and influence say distinctly that if Vallandigham
came into the state he would be killed, and they, if necessary, would kill him.  It was then
understood that Mr. Lincoln was disposed to allow him to enter the state.  Senator Wade and
I met at Washington and had a conversation with Mr. Lincoln. We told him the condition of feeling
in Ohio, and of our confident belief that if his order of banishment was revoked, it would
result in riots and violence, in which Vallandigham would be the first victim.  He gave us
no positive assurance, but turned the conversation by saying that he thought Vallandigham was
safer under British dominion, where he would have plenty of friends.

In June, 1863, my health was somewhat impaired, and Mrs. Sherman and I concluded to visit New
England for a change of scene, and for the benefit of the ocean air.  We visited Newport in
advance of the season and found it deserted.  We went to Boston, and there heard of the advance
of Lee in Pennsylvania, and the fierce contest going on in the rear of Vicksburg.  I became
uneasy and started for home with the intention of proceeding to Vicksburg, but at Cleveland
we heard the glad tidings of great joy, the fall of Vicksburg and the defeat of Lee at Gettysburg.

These victories, occurring on the same day, aroused the enthusiasm and confidence of the loyal
people of the United States, especially the people of Ohio.  Instead of a trip to Vicksburg
I was soon enlisted in the political canvass, and this for three months occupied my attention.
Meetings were held in every county and in almost every township of the state.  All on either
side who were accustomed to speak were actively engaged.  My opening speech was made at Delaware
on the 29th of July.  I was intensely interested in the canvass, and therefore insert a few
paragraphs from that speech, as an indication of the state of feeling existing at that time:

"The political campaign in Ohio this season presents some singular features.  We are in the
midst of a great civil war, in which it is safe to say that one million of men are now arrayed
in arms against each other.  There are, perhaps, now, from Ohio, one hundred thousand of her
best and bravest citizens in the field, in hospitals or camps, sharing the burdens of war.
The immediate stake involved is nothing less than national existence; while the ultimate stake
involves nothing less than civil liberty for generations yet to come.  In the midst of this
contest the Democratic party, through its most eloquent orators, endeavor to make a personal
issue.  They propose to withdraw our armies, to abandon the war, and to try the question whether
their candidate for governor has been legally convicted as a traitor to his country.

"We are assured by Mr. Pugh, the Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor, who is one of
the most eloquent and able young men in the state, that here in Ohio we have been subjected
to a tyranny as intolerable as that of King Bomba of Naples.  When we ask for evidence of this
tyranny, we are told that Clement L. Vallandigham has been illegally convicted and illegally
banished; and that if we are fit to be free we must stop and examine the record in his case,
and not be turned from it by clamors about prosecuting the war, or of concluding peace.  And
we are told that if we don't do all this we are helpless slaves and deserve no better fate.
Now, as I do not desire to be a slave, and do not wish the people of my native state to be
slaves, I will so far depart from my usual course in political discussion as to examine the
personal issue thus made.

"I had supposed, fellow-citizens, that nowhere in the wide world did people live as free from
oppression as in the State of Ohio. But the Democratic party has sounded the alarm that our
liberties were jeopardized in that Mr. Vallandigham has been, as they assert, illegally convicted
and banished.  Before alluding to matters of more general interest I propose to consider that
question.

"The candidate of the Democratic party was convicted by a military tribunal for aiding the
enemy with whom we are at war.  For this he was expelled beyond our lines, and was within the
lines of the enemy when nominated for governor of Ohio.  By the judgment of a military tribunal,
composed mainly of his political friends, approved by General Burnside, the chief military
officer within the state, sanctioned by Judge Leavitt--a judge selected by Vallandigham himself--of
the United States court, he was convicted and sentenced to imprisonment during the war.  By
the mercy of the President he was released from imprisonment and sent beyond our lines.  While
thus banished as a convicted traitor, by military authority, the Democratic party of the State
of Ohio nominated this man as a candidate for governor, and you are called upon to ratify and
confirm that nomination, to intrust this man, convicted as a traitor, with the chief command
of our militia, the appointment of all its officers, and the management of the executive authority
of the state; and that, too, in the midst of a war with the rebels he was convicted of aiding.
. . .

"And here is the marked distinction between the two parties.  The Union party strikes only
at the rebels.  The Democratic party strikes only at the administration.  The Union party insists
upon the use of every means to put down the rebels.  The Democratic party uses every means
to put down the administration.  I read what is called the Democratic Platform, and I find
nothing against the rebels who are in arms against the best government in the world; but I
find numerous accusations against the authorities of the government, who are struggling to
put down the rebels.  I find no kindly mention of the progress of our arms, no mention of victories
achieved and difficulties overcome; no mention of financial measures without a parallel in
their success; no promise of support, no word of encouragement to the constituted authorities;
no allowance made for human error; not a single patriotic hope.  It is a long string of whining,
scolding accusations.  It is dictated by the spirit of rebellion, and, before God, I believe
it originated in the same malignant hate of the constituted authorities as has armed the public
enemies.  I appeal to you if that is the proper way to support your government in the time
of war.  Is this the example set by Webster and Clay, and the great leaders of the Whig party
when General Jackson throttled nullification; or is it the example of the tories of the Revolution?"

Brough visited, I think, every county in the state.  Everywhere his meetings were large and
enthusiastic, but it must be said also that the Democratic meetings, which were equally numerous,
were very largely attended.  The people were evidently anxious to hear both sides.

Towards the close of the campaign I accompanied Mr. Brough through the populous central counties
of the state.  We spoke, among other places, in Newark, Zanesville and Lancaster.  The meetings
were not merely mass meetings, but they were so large that no human voice could reach all those
present, and speeches were made from several stands in the open air, each surrounded by as
many as could hear.  This indication of public feeling was somewhat weakened by the fact that
the Democratic meetings were also very large, and the ablest members of that party were actively
engaged in the canvass.  The "martyr" in Canada was the hero of these meetings, and his compulsory
arrest and absence from the state, but near its border, was the constant theme of complaint.
It was observed that the rival meetings were attended by men of both parties in nearly equal
numbers, so that it was difficult to form an opinion of the result.  Mr. Brough kept a memorandum
book containing the names of the counties in the state and the estimated majorities for or
against him in each county.  At night, when the crowds dispersed, he would take out his book,
and, upon the information received that day, would change the estimate of his majorities. 
In view of the enormous attendance at, and interest in, the Democratic meetings, he was constantly
lowering his estimated majority on the home vote, until finally it declined to 5,000, with
the army vote known to be very largely in his favor.  At Lancaster, where he had lived and
published a strong Democratic paper for many years, and where I was born, he carefully analyzed
his list, and, throwing his book upon the table, emphatically said that he would not reduce
his majority of the home vote one vote below 5,000.  The Democratic party, however, seemed
confident of Vallandigham's election.  The result was that Brough was elected by the unprecedented
majority of 101,000, of which 62,000 was on the home vote and 39,000 on the vote of the soldiers
in the field, they having the privilege of voting.

This settled once for all the position of Ohio, not only on the question of the war, but on
the determination of its people to support Mr. Lincoln in the use of all the powers granted
by the constitution as construed by him, and to prosecute the war to final success.  Vallandigham
remained in Canada until June, 1864, when he returned quietly to Ohio, where he was permitted
to remain. His presence injured his party.  His appearance in the national convention at Chicago
in 1864, and active participation in its proceedings, and his support of General McClellan,
greatly, I think, diminished the chances of the Democratic ticket.  He died seven years later
by an accidental wound inflicted by himself.

I have always regarded Brough's election in Ohio upon the issue distinctly made, not only as
to the prosecution of the war, but in support of the most vigorous measures to conduct it,
as having an important influence in favor of the Union cause equal to that of any battle of
the war.  The results of all the elections in the several states in 1863 were decidedly victories
for the Union cause, and especially in New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Maryland.

The 38th Congress met on the 7th of December, 1863.  The Members of the House of Representatives
were elected in the fall of 1862, perhaps the darkest period of the war for the Union cause.
The utter failure of McClellan's campaign in Virginia, the defeat of Pope at the second battle
of Bull Run, the jealousies then developed among the chief officers of the Union army, the
restoration of McClellan to his command, the golden opportunity lost by him at Antietam, the
second removal of McClellan from command, the slow movement of Halleck on Corinth, the escape
of Beauregard, the scattering of Halleck's magnificent army, the practical exclusion of Grant
and his command, and the chasing of Bragg and Buell through Kentucky--these, and other discouraging
events, created a doubt in the public mind whether the Union could be restored.  It became
known during the happening of these events that Mr. Lincoln had determined upon the emancipation
of slaves in states in rebellion by an executive act.  Chase doubted the success of the measure
and suggested another plan of emancipation, but said that he regarded this as so much better
than inaction on the subject that he would give it his entire support.

In consequence of the opposition, the proclamation was postponed. On the 22nd of September,
the President, having fully made up his mind, announced to the cabinet his purpose to issue
the proclamation already quoted.  What he did, he said, was after full deliberation and under
a heavy and solemn sense of responsibility.

The effect of this proclamation upon the pending elections in Ohio was very injurious.  I was
then actively engaged in the canvass and noticed that when I expressed my approbation of the
proclamation, it was met with coldness and silence.  This was especially so at Zanesville.
The result was the election in Ohio of a majority of Democratic Members of Congress.  This,
following the overwhelming Republican victory in 1861, when Tod was elected governor by a majority
of 55,203, was a revolution which could only be ascribed to the events of the war and to the
issue of the proclamation.  It may be also partially ascribed to the discontent growing out
of the appointments, by Governor Tod, of officers in the volunteers. The same discontent defeated
the renomination of Governor Dennison in 1861.  Such is the usual result of the power of appointment,
however prudently exercised.

The House of Representatives was promptly organized on the 7th of December, 1863, by the election
of Schuyler Colfax as speaker. The session of Congress that followed was perhaps the busiest
and most important one in the history of our government.  The number of measures to be considered,
the gravity of the subject-matter, and the condition of the country, demanded and received
the most careful attention.  The acts relating to the organization of the army and the one
increasing the pay of soldiers, made imperative by the depreciation of our currency, as well
as the draft and conscription laws, received prompt attention.  The enrollment act, approved
February 24, 1864, proved to be the most effective measure to increase and strengthen the army.
The bounty laws were continued and the amount to be paid enlarged.  The laws relating to loans,
currency, customs duties and internal taxes required more time and occupied a great portion
of the session.  The revenue bill enacted at that session was far more comprehensive and the
rates much higher than in any previous or subsequent law.  It provided for an increase of all
internal taxes contained in previous laws, and added many new objects of taxation, so as to
embrace nearly every source of revenue provided for by American or English laws, including
stamp duties upon deeds, conveyances, legal documents of all kinds, certificates, receipts,
medicines and preparations of perfumery, cosmetics, photographs, matches, cards, and indeed
every instrument or article to which a stamp could be attached.  It also provided for taxes
on the succession to real estate, legacies, distributive shares of personal property, and a
tax of from five to ten per cent. on all incomes above $600, upon all employments, upon all
carriages, yachts, upon slaughtered cattle, swine and sheep, upon express companies, insurance
companies, telegraph companies, theaters, operas, circuses, museums and lotteries, upon all
banks and bankers, brokers, and upon almost every article of domestic production.  It placed
a heavy tax upon licenses, upon dealers in spirits, upon brokers, lottery-ticket dealers and
almost every employment of life.

It largely increased the tax on spirits, ale, beer, porter, and tobacco in every form.  Not
content with this, on the last day of the session, Congress levied a special income tax of
five per cent., to provide for the bounties promised to Union soldiers.  This drastic bill
occupied the attention of both Houses during a considerable portion of the session, and became
a law only on the 30th of June, 1864, within four days of the close of the session. It was
greatly feared that the law could create discontent, but it was received with favor by the
people, few if any complaints being made of the heavy burden it imposed.  The customs duties
were carefully revised, not in the interest of protection but solely for revenue.  Nearly all
the articles formerly on the free list were made dutiable, and they proved to be copious sources
of revenue, especially the duties on tea, coffee, spirits of all kinds, wines, cigars, and
tobacco in every form.

During that session Congress passed two important loan bills, which practically confided to
the Secretary of the Treasury the power to borrow money in almost any form that could be devised.
The first act, approved March 3, 1864, authorized him to borrow, on the credit of the United
States, $200,000,000 during the current fiscal year, redeemable after any period not less than
five years, and payable at any period not more than forty years from date, in coin, and bearing
interest at six per cent. per annum.  It also provided for the issue of $11,000,000 5-20 bonds
which had been sold in excess of the $500,000,000 authorized by law.  By the act approved June
30, 1864, the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to borrow, on the credit of the United
States, $400,000,000, on bonds redeemable at the pleasure of the United States after a period
of not less than five, nor more than forty, years from date, bearing an annual interest of
not exceeding six per cent., payable semi-annually in coin.  He was authorized to receive for
such bonds lawful money of the United States, or, at his discretion, treasury notes, certificates
of indebtedness or certificates of deposit, issued under any act of Congress.  These bonds
were similar in general description to the 5-20 bonds already provided for, but bore interest
at five per cent. instead of six.

By these measures the people of the United States had placed in the power of the government
almost unlimited sources of revenue, and all necessary expedients for borrowing.  Strange as
it may appear, under the operation of these laws the country was very prosperous.  All forms
of industry hitherto conducted, and many others, were in healthy operation.  Labor was in great
demand and fully occupied.  This will account for the passage of several laws that would not
be justified except in an emergency like the one then existing.  Among these was an act to
encourage immigration, approved July 4, 1864.  This act grew out of the great demand for labor
caused by the absence of so many men in the army.  A commission of immigration was provided.
Immigrants were authorized to pledge their wages, for a term not exceeding twelve months, to
repay the expense of their immigration.  These contracts were declared to be valid in law and
might be enforced in the courts of the United States or of the several states and territories.
It provided that no immigrant should be compulsorily enrolled for military service during the
existing insurrection, unless such immigrant voluntarily renounced, under oath, his allegiance
to the country of his birth, and declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States.
This law could only be justified by the condition of affairs then existing.

Another law, alike indefensible, but considered important at the time, regulating the sale
of gold, was approved June 17, 1864. It declared unlawful a contract for the purchase or sale
and delivery of any gold coin or bullion, to be delivered on any day subsequent to the making
of the contract.  It also forbade the purchase or sale and delivery of foreign exchange, to
be delivered at any time beyond ten days subsequent to the making of such contract, or the
making of any contract for the sale and delivery of any gold coin or bullion, of which the
person making such contract was not at the time of making it in actual possession.  It also
declared it to be unlawful to make any loans of money or currency to be repaid in coin or bullion
or to make any loan of coin or bullion to be repaid in currency.  All these provisions were
made to prevent what were regarded as bets on the price of gold.  This law, however, proved
to be ineffective, as all such laws interfering with trade and speculation must be, and was
soon repealed.

The national banking act, which passed at the previous session, was carefully revised and enacted
in a new form, and it still remains in force, substantially unchanged by subsequent laws. 
By this new act the office of comptroller of the currency was created. Under its provisions,
aided by a heavy tax on the circulating notes of state banks, such banks were converted into
national banks upon such conditions as secured the payment of their circulating notes.

The financial measures, to which I have referred, were the work of the committees of ways and
means of the House and on finance in the Senate.  They occupied the chief attention of both
Houses, and may fairly be claimed by the members of those committees as successful measures
of the highest importance.  I was deeply interested in all of them, took a very active part
in their preparation in committee, and their conduct in the Senate, and, with the other members
of the committee, feel that the measures adopted contributed largely to the final triumph of
the Union cause.  Certainly, the full power of the United States, its credit and the property
of its people were by these laws intrusted to the executive authorities to suppress the rebellion.

In addition to military and financial measures, that session was prolific in many other measures
of primary importance.  The Union Pacific Railroad Company, which had been chartered by the
previous Congress, found itself unable to proceed, and appealed to Congress for additional
aid.  This was granted by the act of July 2, 1864. Under this act, the first lien of the United
States for bonds advanced to the company, provided for by the act of 1862, was made subordinate
to the lien of the bonds of the company sold in the market--a fatal error, which led to all
the serious complications which followed.  The proceeds of the sale of the first mortgage bonds
of the company, with a portion of those issued by the United States in aid of the company,
built both the Union and Central Pacific, so that the constructors of those roads, who were
mainly directors and managers of the company, practically received as profit a large portion
of the bonds of the United States issued in aid of the work, and almost the entire capital
stock of the company. If the act had been delayed until after the war, when the securities
of the United States rapidly advanced in value, it could not have passed in the form it did.
The construction of the road was practically not commenced until the war was over.  The constructors
had the benefit of the advancing value of the bonds and of the increasing purchasing power
of United States notes.

It was unfortunate that the bill for the construction of the Northern Pacific Railroad came
up at the same time.  It was a faulty measure, making excessive grants of public lands to aid
in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget Sound. It
was an act of incorporation with broad and general powers, carelessly defined, and with scarcely
any safeguards to protect the government and its lavish grants of land.  Some few amendments
were made, but mostly in the interest of the corporation, and the bill finally passed the Senate
without any vote by yeas and nays.

These two bills prove that it is not wise during war to provide measures for a time of peace.

During the same session the Territories of Colorado, Nebraska and Nevada were authorized to
form state governments for admission into the Union, and a government was provided for each
of the Territories of Montana and Idaho.  The great object of organizing all the Indian country
of the west into states and territories was to secure the country from Indian raids and depredations.

It was thoroughly debated, and passed the Senate by the large vote of 38 yeas and 6 nays. 
It subsequently received the sanction of the House and of the requisite number of states to
make it a part of the constitution.  This was the natural and logical result of the Civil War.
In case the rebellion should fail, it put at an end all propositions for compensation for slaves
in loyal states, and all question of the validity of the emancipation proclamation of Abraham
Lincoln.

The following letter of Secretary Chase shows the extremity of the measures deemed to be necessary
at this period of the war:

  "Treasury Department, May 26, 1864.
"My Dear Sir:--I inclose two drafts of a national bank taxation
clause--one marked 'A,' providing for the appropriation of the
whole tax to the payment of interest or principal of the public
debt and repealing the real estate direct tax law, and another
marked 'B,' dividing the proceeds of the tax between the national
and the loyal states.  In either form the clause will be vastly
more beneficial to the country than in the form of the bill, whether
original or amended.

"I also inclose a draft of a section providing for a tax on banks not national in the internal
revenue act.  It substantially restates the House proposition limiting it to banks of the states.
Some discrimination in favor of the national system which affords substantial support to the
government as compared with the local system, which circulates notes in competition with those
issued by the government, seems to me indispensably necessary.  It is impossible to prevent
the depreciation of the currency unless Congress will assume its constitutional function and
control it; and it is idle to try to make loans unless Congress will give the necessary support
to the public credit.  I am now compelled to advertise for a loan of fifty millions, and, to
avoid as far as practicable the evils of sales below par, must offer the long bonds of '81.
Should the provisions I ask for be denied, I may still be able to negotiate the loan on pretty
fair terms; but I dread the effects on future loans.

"Hitherto I have been able to maintain the public credit at the best points possible with a
surcharged circulation.  My ability to do so is due mainly to the legislation of the session
of 1862-63. I must have further legislation in the same direction if it is desired to maintain
that ability.

  "Yours truly,
  "S. P. Chase.
"Hon. John Sherman."

A few days before the close of the session, on the 29th of June, 1864, Mr. Chase tendered his
resignation as Secretary of the Treasury.  This created quite a sensation in political circles.
It was thought to be the culmination of the feeling created by the nomination of Lincoln and
the alleged rivalry of Chase, but the statements made in the "History of Lincoln," by Nicolay
and Hay, and the "Biography of Chase," by Schuckers, clearly show that the cause of the resignation
arose long anterior to this event and gradually produced a condition of affairs when either
Mr. Lincoln had to yield his power over appointments or Mr. Chase retire from his office. 
No good would result from analyzing the events which led to this resignation.  The cause was
perhaps best stated by Mr. Lincoln in accepting it, as follows:

"Your resignation of the office of Secretary of the Treasury, sent me yesterday, is accepted.
Of all I have said in commendation of your ability and fidelity I have nothing to unsay, and
yet you and I have reached a point of mutual embarrassment in our official relation which it
seems cannot be overcome or longer sustained consistently with the public service."

The nomination of David Tod, of Ohio, as Secretary of the Treasury to succeed Mr. Chase, was
not well received in either House.  If the Members had known Tod as well as I did, they would
have known that he was not only a good story teller, but a sound, able, conservative business
man, fully competent to deal with the great office for which he was nominated.  His declination,
however, prevented a controversy which would have been injurious, whatever might have been
the result.  An anecdote frequently told by him may, perhaps, explain his nomination.

When he was elected Governor of Ohio, he went to Washington to see Mr. Lincoln, to find out,
as he said, what a Republican President wanted a Democratic Governor of Ohio to do in aid of
the Union cause.  He called at the White house, sent in his card, and was informed that the
President was engaged, but desired very much to see Governor Tod, and invited him to call that
evening at 7 o'clock. Promptly on time Governor Tod called and was ushered into the room where,
for the first time, he saw Mr. Lincoln.  Mutual salutation had scarcely been exchanged before
the announcement was made that David K. Cartter was at the door.  Mr. Lincoln asked the governor
if he had any objection to Cartter hearing their talk.  The governor said no, that Cartter
was an old friend and law partner of his. Soon after Governor Nye of Nevada was announced.
The same inquiry was made and answered, and Nye joined the party, and in the same way Sam.
Galloway, of Ohio, and a famous joker from New York, whose name I do not recall, came in. 
Then grouped around the table, Nye led off with a humorous description of life in the mines
in the early days of California, and the others contributed anecdotes, humor and fun, in which
Lincoln took the lead, "and I" (as Tod told the story), "not to be behindhand, told a story;"
and so the hours flew on without any mention of the grave matters he expected to discuss with
the President.  When the clock announced the hour of eleven, Mr. Lincoln said he made it a
habit to retire at eleven o'clock, and, turning to Tod, said:  "Well, Governor, we have not
had any chance to talk about the war, but we have had a good time anyway; come and see me again."
It then dawned upon the governor that this little party of kindred spirits, all friends of
his, were invited by the President to relive him from an interview about the future that would
be fruitless of results.  Neither could know what each ought to do until events pointed out
a duty to be done. Lincoln knew that Tod was a famous story teller, as were all the others
in the party, and availed himself of the opportunity to relieve his mind from anxious care.

Governor Tod told me this anecdote and related many of the stories told at that symposium.

The nomination of William P. Fessenden as Secretary of the Treasury was a natural one to be
made, and received the cordial support of Members of the Senate, even of those who did not
like his occasional ill temper and bitterness.  And here I may properly pause to notice the
traits of two men with whom I was closely identified in public life, and for whom I had the
highest personal regard, although they widely differed from each other.

Mr. Fessenden was an able lawyer, a keen incisive speaker, rarely attempting rhetoric, but
always a master in clear, distinct statement and logical argument.  He had been for a number
of years dyspeptic, and this, no doubt, clouded his temper and caused many of the bitter things
he said.  When I entered the Senate, I was, at his request, placed on the committee on finance,
of which he was chairman.  He was kind enough to refer to my position in the House as chairman
of the committee of ways and means, and my action there, and to express the hope that I would
be able to aid him in dealing with financial question, in which he had no training and but
little interest.  I accepted the position with pleasure, and in general co-operated with him,
though on many important subjects we widely differed.  His appointment as Secretary of the
Treasury left me chairman of the committee on finance, but my intercourse with him continued
while he was secretary.  During the short period in which he held that office, I had many conferences
with him in respect to pending questions.  When he returned to the Senate, on the 4th of March,
1865, he resumed his old place as chairman of the committee on finance, and continued in that
position nearly two years, when, his health becoming more feeble, he resigned his membership
of that committee, and I again took his place as chairman and held it until appointed Secretary
of the Treasury in 1877.  His health continued to fail and he died at Portland, Maine, September
8, 1869.

With Mr. Chase I had but little acquaintance and no sympathy during his early political career.
His edition of the "Statutes of Ohio" was his first work of any importance.  He was at times
supposed to be a Whig and then again classed as a Democrat.  Later he became a member of the
national convention of Free Soilers held at Buffalo, August 9, 1848, over which he presided.
This convention was composed of delegates from eighteen states, and included in its active
members many of the most eminent Whigs and Democrats of a former time.  It nominated Martin
Van Buren for the Presidency, and Charles Francis Adams for Vice President.  General Taylor,
the nominee of the Whig party, was elected President, but Mr. Van Buren received 291,342 votes,
being nearly one-eighth of the whole number of votes cast.

It so happened that when the Ohio legislature met in December, 1848, it was composed of an
equal number of Whigs and Democrats and of two members, Townsend and Morse, who classed themselves
as Free Soilers.  They practically dictated the election of Mr. Chase as United States Senator.
They secured his election by an understanding, express or implied, with the Democratic members,
that they would vote for Democrats for all the numerous offices, which, under the constitution
of the state as it then stood, were appointed by the legislature.  This bargain and sale--so-called--
created among the Whigs a strong prejudice against Chase.  But events in Congress, especially
the act repealing the Missouri Compromise, practically dissolved existing parties, and left
Mr. Chase in the vantage ground of having resisted this measure with firmness.  He was universally
regarded as a man of marked ability and honest in his convictions.  In the election for Members
of Congress in 1854, he supported what were known as the anti-Nebraska candidates, and, no
doubt, contributed to their election.  When he was nominated for governor, I was naturally
brought into friendly relations with him, and these, as time advanced, were cordial and intimate.
Our correspondence was frequent, mostly of a personal character, and our intimacy continued
while he lived.  When he was Secretary of the Treasury I was frequently consulted by him, and
had, as I believe, his entire confidence.  I have a great number of letters from him written
during that period.

In September, 1864, Mr. Chase was my guest at Mansfield for a day or two.  He was evidently
restless and uneasy as to his future. I spoke to him about the position of chief justice, recently
made vacant by the death of Taney.  He said it was a position of eminence that ought to satisfy
the ambition of anyone, but for which few men were fitted.  Early in October I received a letter
from him which shows he was actively engaged in the canvass, and that the common belief that
he did not desire the election of Mr. Lincoln was without foundation.  He wrote as follows:

  "Louisville, October 2, 1864.
"My Dear Sir:--Some days since I informed the secretary of the
state central committee that I would, as far as possible, fill the
appointments which ill-health had obliged Gov. Tod to decline.
Seeing afterwards, however, that he had determined to meet them
himself, I acceded to requests from other quarters to given them
what help I could.  The first intimation I had that he would fail
in any of them was your letter, put into my hands just as I was
leaving Cincinnati for New Albany last Friday.  It was then too
late to recall my own appointments, and, of course, I cannot be at
Mansfield.  I should be glad to be there; but regret the impossibility
of it the less since I should not meet you.  I am really glad you
are going to Logansport.  The election of Gov. Morton is of vast
importance to our cause.  And, then, Colfax, I feel most anxious
for him.  I hope you can go to his district.  I wanted to go myself;
but was urged to other parts of Indiana, and was left no chance to
reach it till this week; which must be given to Ohio in aid of
Stevenson and Bundy, except that I speak here to-morrow (Monday),
and Tuesday night in Covington.

"There has been a very large accumulation of troops here, for Sherman.  Col. Hammond telegraphed
the department at Washington yesterday that, communications being now re-established from Nashville
to Atlanta, he could commence sending them forward immediately; and doubtless the movement
will begin tomorrow.  I congratulate you most heartily of his splendid success thus far and
on the certainty that no effort will be spared to maintain his army at the highest possible
point of efficiency.

"There appears to be no truth in the report of a co-operative movement in aid of Sheridan for
Tennessee.  Burbridge's expedition is for a point beyond Abingdon where there are important
salt works, and he intends returning thence through Knoxville.  So I learn from one who ought
to know; but don't understand it.  That game seems hardly worth the candle.

"We had a splendid meeting in Aurora yesterday and our friends are confident of Gov. Morton's
re-election.  Thousands of people stood in a pouring rain to hear me and Gov. Lane talk to
them, and profounder or more earnest attention I never witnessed.  It will gratify you, I am
sure, to know that I receive, wherever I go, unequivocal manifestations of a popular confidence
and appreciation, which I did not suppose I possessed.

"There is not now the slightest uncertainty about the re-election of Mr. Lincoln.  The only
question is, by what popular and what electoral majority.  God grant that both may be so decisive
as to turn every hope of rebellion to despair!

"You ask about Mr. Fessenden's remaining in the cabinet.  He will be a candidate for re-election
to the Senate; and if successful will leave his present post in March, or sooner if circumstances
allow.  He has been in communication with me since he took charge, and in every step, with
perhaps one slight exception, his judgment has corresponded with mine.  He sees several matters
now in quite a different light from that in which they appeared to him when Senator.  He would
now, for example, cordially support your proposition for a heavy discriminating tax upon all
unnational circulation.  And he is more than just--he is very generous in his appreciation
of the immense work of organization and effective activity to be found in the department.

"How signally are events confirming my views as to the value of gold, compared with national
currency.  How clear it is now that if Congress had come boldly to the act of marked discriminative
taxation on all non-national circulation and final prohibition after a few years, say two--or
at most three--gold would now have been at not more than fifty per cent. premium and that resumption
of specie payments might have been effected within a year.  I trust the next session will witness
bolder and better legislation.  It will be one of your brightest honors that you so clearly
saw and so boldly followed the path of reform; for certainly no greater boon--except liberty
itself--can be conferred upon a nation than a truly national and thoroughly sound currency.

  "Yours most truly,
  "S. P. Chase.
"Hon. John Sherman."

After the election he wrote me the following letter, in which he referred to the appointment
of a chief justice, with an evident desire for the office:

  "Cincinnati, November 12, 1864.
"My Dear Sir:--The papers still state you are in Washington.  I am
glad of it, and hope you may be able to render good service to our
friend, Fessenden.  The task of preparing a report is no light one.
At least it always made me sweat and keep late hours.  May he find
a safe deliverance from the labor.

"All sorts of rumors are afloat about everything.  Those which concern me most relate to the
vacant seat on the bench; but I give little heed to any of them.  My experience in Washington
taught me how unreliable they are.  If what I hear is any index to the state of opinion, Mr.
Lincoln must be satisfied that in acting on the purpose expressed in your letters, he will
have the almost, if not quite, unanimous approval of the Union men throughout the country.
So I 'possess my soul in patience,' and urge nothing.

"If it did not seem to me a sort of indelicacy even to allow to anyone the slightest occasion
to say that I solicit or even ask such an appointment as a favor or as a reward for political
service, I should now be on my way to Washington; but I think it due to myself as well as the
President to await his decision here; though, if appointed, I hope the appointment will be
considered as made from the country at large rather than from Ohio alone.  My legal residence
is here; but my actual domicile is still in the District.

"Please write me, if you can, when the President will act.  Let me know too how the military
and political aspects at Washington appear to you.  We have achieved a glorious political victory,
which must greatly help our military prospects and possibilities.

"Mr. Miller has just come in and says he goes to Washington to- night.  Had he come before
I began, I should have spared you this letter; only asking him to make verbally the inquiries
I have just set down; but I will send it with 'answer respectfully solicited.'

  "Yours very cordially,
  "S. P. Chase.
"Hon. John Sherman."

Early in December I received the following letter, which indicates very clearly that Mr. Chase
was anxious for the position of chief justice, and wished his appointment made, if at all,
before his arrival in Washington:

  "Cleveland, December 2, 1864.
"My Dear Sir:--Yours of the 27th of November reached me here to-
day.  Yesterday I fulfilled my appointment to make an address on
the dedication of the college edifice recently erected at Mount
Union, under the patronage of the Pittsburg conference of the
Methodist church.  A number of leading men of the denomination were
present and assured me of the profound wishes of themselves and
the most influential men of the connection for my appointment.
These indeed seem to be universal except with an inconsiderable
number whom various circumstances have made unfriendly personally.
So that I cannot doubt that the President's adherence to his declared
intention is more important to our cause and to his administration
than it is to me personally.  Not to be appointed after such
declaration and such expressions would, no doubt, be a mortification;
but it would not, I think, be any serious injury to me.

"I expect to be in Washington, Tuesday or Wednesday.  I should have been there long since had
this appointment been determined either way; but I must come now.  My personal duties, unconnected
with it, have required and now require my attention, and though I hated to come before I knew
that there remains nothing to hope or fear concerning it, I must.  I will be at the Continental,
Philadelphia, Tuesday morning.

"Our news from Tennessee is important and encouraging.  Garfield's success against Forrest
was brilliant.  I hope Thomas will succeed as well against Hood.

"General Sherman must now be near the coast.  His enterprise is full of hazard, but a hazard
wisely incurred as it seems to me. I ardently hope that 'out of the nettle, danger, he will
pluck the flower, safety.'

"Our majority on the presidential election in Ohio turns out much less than I anticipated.
It will hardly, if at all, exceed fifty thousand.

  "Faithfully yours,
  "S. P. Chase.
"Hon. John Sherman."

When I returned to Washington at the beginning of the next session I called upon the President
and recommended the appointment of Mr. Chase.  We had a brief conversation upon the subject
in which he asked me pointedly the question whether if Chase was appointed he would be satisfied,
or whether he would immediately become a candidate for President.  I told him I thought his
appointment to that great office ought to and would satisfy his ambition.  He then told me
that he had determined to appoint him and intended to send the nomination to the Senate that
day and he did so, December 6, 1864.  After Mr. Chase had become chief justice he still had
a lingering interest in the financial policy of the country.  On March 1, 1865, I received
from him the following letter.  The portion which refers to the legal tender laws will naturally
excite some interest in view of his decision against the power of Congress to make the notes
of the United States a legal tender.  He wrote:

  "At Home, March 1, 1865.
"My Dear Sir:--More to fulfill a promise than with the hope of
service I write this note.

"Your speech on the finances is excellent.  There are one or two points on which I shall express
myself otherwise; but, in the main, it commands the fullest assent of my judgment.

"Your appreciation of the currency question exactly corresponds with my own; only I would not
give up the national currency even if we must endure for years depreciation through the issues
of state banks before getting rid of them.

"The clause in the bill, as it came from the House, imposing a tax of ten per cent. on all
notes not authorized by Congress which may be paid out after this year by any bank, whether
state or national, will do much towards making our currency sound.

"I will briefly indicate what I should prefer and what I should most zealously labor to have
sanctioned by Congress if I were at the head of the treasury department.

"1.  Let the monthly tax on state bank circulation be increased to one-half of one per cent.

"2.  Provide that any bank may pay into the national treasury the amount of its circulation
in United States notes or national currency and that on such payment the bank making it shall
be exempt from taxation on circulation.

"3.  Provide for the application to the redemption of the circulation represented by such payments,
of the United States notes or national currency so paid in, and strictly prohibit the paying
out of such notes for any other purpose.

"This measure contemplates:

"1.  An exclusive national currency.

"2.  Relief of the state banks from taxation upon circulation which they cannot get in.

"3.  The assumption of the duty of redemption by the national treasury with means provided
by the state banks.

"4.  Reduction in the amount in circulation while the payments into the treasury are being
made and opportunity of some provision for redemption which will not again increase it.

"The effect will be:

"1.  Healthful condition of currency and consequent activity in production and increase of
resources.

"2.  Gradual restoration of national notes to equality with specie and the facilitating of
resumption of specie payments.

"3.  Improvement of national credit.

"4.  Diminution of national expenditures and possible arrest of the increase of national debt.

"Half measures are better than no measures; but thorough measures are best.

"I will only add, that while I have never favored legal tender laws in principle, and never
consented to them except under imperious necessity, I yet think it unwise to prohibit the making
of any of the treasury notes authorized by the bill now before Congress legal tenders.  The
compound interest legal tender notes have then fulfilled all my expectations for their issue
and use; and may be made most useful helps in gradual reduction of the volume of circulation
by substituting them for legal tenders bearing no interest.

"I cannot elaborate this now.  You will see how the thing will work without any suggestion
of mine.  Faithfully your friend,

  "S. P. Chase.
"Hon. John Sherman."

From my long and intimate acquaintance with Chief Justice Chase I am quite sure that the duties
of the great office he then held were not agreeable to him.  His life had been a political
one, and this gave him opportunity for travel and direct communion with the people.  The seclusion
and severe labor imposed upon the Supreme Court were contrary to his habits and injurious to
his health.  It took him some years to become accustomed to the quiet of judicial life.  He
presided over the Senate while acting as a court of impeachment during the trial of Andrew
Johnson in 1868.  While strongly opposed to the impeachment, he manifested no sign of partiality.
He died in New York city on the 7th of May, 1873, at the age of sixty-five.

While Congress was in session, the Republican national convention met at Baltimore on the 7th
day of June, 1864, to nominate candidates for President and Vice President of the United States,
and to announce the principles and policy of the Republican party of the United States.  The
nomination of Mr. Lincoln had already been made by state legislatures and by the loyal people
of the United States in every form in which popular opinion can be expressed.  The feeble expressions
of dissent were but a whisper compared with the loud proclamations coming from every loyal
state in favor of Lincoln. The convention, with unanimous assent, ratified and confirmed the
popular choice.

The nomination for Vice President was dictated by the desire to recognize the loyalty and patriotism
of those who, living in states in rebellion, remained true and loyal to the Federal Union.
Though Mr. Johnson disappointed the expectations of those who nominated him, yet at that time
his courage and fidelity and his services and sacrifices for the cause of the Union fully justified
his nomination.

More important, even, than the choice of candidates, was the declaration by the convention
of the policy of the Republican party.

This was the logical result of the war.  If it was carried into full execution, it would settle
on a just and sure foundation the only danger that ever threatened the prosperity of the Union.
This was happily carried into full effect by the constitutional amendment to which I have already
referred.

The Democratic convention met at Chicago on the 29th of August, 1864, and nominated George
B. McClellan as the candidate for President and George H. Pendleton as Vice President; but
far more important and dangerous was the second, and the only material resolution of the platform
which was drawn by Vallandigham and was as follows:

"Resolved, that this convention does explicitly declare, as the sense of the American people,
that after four years of failure to restore the Union by the experiment of war, during which,
under the pretense of a military necessity of a war power higher than the constitution, the
constitution itself has been disregarded in every part, and public liberty and private right
alike trodden down, and the material prosperity of the country essentially impaired, justice,
humanity, liberty and the public welfare demand that immediate efforts be made for a cessation
of hostilities with a view to an ultimate convention of all the states, or other peaceable
means, to the end that, at the earliest practicable moment, peace may be restored on the basis
of the federal union of all the states."

This was a false declaration, and was also a cowardly surrender to enemies in open war.  These
two resolutions made the momentous issue submitted to the American people.  From the moment
it was made the popular mind grew stronger and firmer in favor of the prosecution of the war
and the abolition of slavery, and more resolute to resist the surrender proposed to rebels
in arms.  Prior to the adoption of this resolution, there was apparent languor and indifference
among the people as to who should be President, but after its adoption there could be no doubt
as to the trend of popular opinion. Every sentiment of patriotism, the love of flag and country,
the pride of our people in the success of our soldiers, and the resentment of the soldiers
themselves at this slur on their achievements--all contributed to the rejection of the candidates
and the platform of the Democratic party, and the overwhelming victory of the Republican party.

I had already entered into the canvass when this resolution of Vallandigham was adopted.  It
was only necessary to read it to the people of Ohio to arouse resentment and opposition.  The
scattered opposition to Mr. Lincoln, much of it growing out of his conservatism, at once disappeared.
The discontented Republicans who met in convention at Cleveland again became active in the
Republican ranks. The two parties that grew out of factional politics in New York, the Blair
party and its opponents in Missouri, and the army of disaffected office-seekers, waived their
dissensions and griefs. Horace Greeley and the extreme opponents of slavery, represented by
Wendell Phillips, not satisfied with the slow, but constitutional process of emancipation proposed
by Lincoln, when compelled to choose between that plan of abolition and unconditional surrender
to slavery, naturally voted for Lincoln.  The great body of patriotic Democrats in all the
states, who supported the war, but were still attached to their party, quietly voted for Lincoln.
In Ohio, especially, where a year before they voted against Vallandigham for his disloyalty,
they naturally voted against his resolution for surrender to the rebels.

During the campaign I accompanied Johnson to Indiana where he made patriotic speeches to great
audiences.  His arraignment of the autocracy of slaveholders in the south was very effective.
The current of opinion was all in favor of Lincoln.  The result of the election for Members
of Congress in the states voting in October was a decisive indication of the result in November.
All the central states elected a large majority of Republican Members of Congress.  In Ohio
the Union party had a majority of over 50,000 and elected 17 Republican and 2 Democratic Members
of the House of Representatives.  In 1862 Ohio elected 14 Democratic and 5 Republican Members.
The presidential election that followed on the 8th of November, 1864, resulted in an overwhelming
victory for Lincoln. He received 212 and McClellan 21 electoral votes, the latter from the
States of New Jersey, Delaware and Kentucky.  This political victory had a more decisive effect
in defeating the rebellion than many battles.  I returned to Washington soon after the election.

I was naturally deeply interested in the movements of General Sherman's march to the sea. 
Towards the close of November we had all sorts of rumors from the south, that General Sherman
was surrounded by Confederate troops, that his supplies were cut off, that successful attacks
had been made upon his scattered forces. I naturally became uneasy, and went to President Lincoln
for consolation and such news as he could properly give me.  He said: "Oh, no, we have no news
from General Sherman.  We know what hole he went in at, but we do not know what hole he will
come out of," but he expressed his opinion that General Sherman was all right. Soon after,
authentic information came that General Sherman had arrived at Savannah, that Fort McAllister
was taken, and the army was in communication with the naval forces.  The capture of Savannah
and the northward march of General Sherman's army is part of the familiar military history
of the country.

The second session of the 38th Congress convened on the 5th of December, 1864.  It was a busy
and active session confined mainly to appropriations, loan and currency bills.  The necessary
expenditures had been so greatly increased by the war that the aggregate amounts appropriated
naturally created some opposition and alarm, but there was no help for it.  As chairman of
the committee on finance I did all I could to reduce the appropriations for civil expenses,
but in respect to military expenditures there could scarcely be any limit, the amount necessary
being dependent upon military success. The hopeful progress of the war gave encouragement that
in a brief period the power of the Confederate States would be exhausted and peace would follow.
We had, however, to legislate upon the basis of the continued prosecution of the war, and it
therefore became necessary to increase the revenues in every possible way, and to provide for
new loans.  The act approved March 3, 1865, authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to borrow
not exceeding $600,000,000, and to issue therefore bonds or treasury notes of the United States
in such form as he might provide.  This was the last great loan authorized during the war.
An act to provide internal revenue to support the government was approved on the same day,
which modified many of the provisions of the previous act, but added subjects of taxation not
embraced in previous laws.  It especially increased the taxes on tobacco in its various forms.
The 6th section provided:

"That every national banking association, state bank, or state banking association, shall pay
a tax of ten per centum on the amount of notes of any state bank or state banking association,
paid out by them after the first day of July, eighteen hundred and sixty- six."

This tax on state bank circulation was a practical prohibition of all state bank paper, and
before the time fixed for the commencement of the tax, this circulation entirely disappeared.
Additional duties were placed upon certain foreign importations.  Provisions were also made
for the collection in the insurrectionary districts within the United States of the direct
taxes levied under the act of 1862.  During the entire season my labor was excessive, and when
it closed my health and strength were greatly impaired.

On the 4th of March, 1865, at the inauguration of the President and Vice President elect, a
scene occurred in the Senate chamber, which made a serious impression, and was indicative of
what was to occur in the future.  About eleven o'clock of that day Andrew Johnson, Vice President,
was shown into the room in the capitol assigned to the Vice President.  He complained of feeling
unwell and sent for either whisky or brandy, and must have drunk excessively of it.  A few
minutes before twelve o'clock he was ushered into the Senate to take the oath of office and
to make the usual brief address.  He was plainly intoxicated and delivered a stump speech unworthy
of the occasion.  Before him were assembled all the principal officers of the government and
the diplomatic corps.  He went on in a maudlin and rambling way for twenty minutes or more,
until finally he was suppressed by the suggestion of the secretary that the time for the inauguration
had arrived, and he must close.

The procession was formed for the inauguration at the east front of the capitol, where a great
multitude was gathered.  There Mr. Lincoln delivered his memorable inaugural address.  Referring
to the condition of the controversy at the time of his former inaugural, he said:

"Both parties deprecated war; but one of them would make war rather than let the Union survive;
and the other would accept war rather than let it perish.  And the war came."

Soon after the adjournment I was invited by Secretary Stanton, with many other Senators and
our families, to take a trip to the south in the steamer "Baltic."  Among those on board were
Senators Simon Cameron, Wade, Zach. Chandler, and Foster, of Connecticut, then president pro
tempore of the Senate.  The sea was exceedingly boisterous.  Nearly all on board were sea sick,
but none so badly as Wade and Chandler, both of whom, I fear, violated the third commandment,
and nearly all the party were in hearty sympathy with them.  I was a good sailor and about
the only one who escaped the common fate.  We visited the leading places of interest along
the coast, but especially Charleston, Beaufort and Savannah.  Charleston had but recently been
evacuated.  General Sherman was then on his march through North Carolina.  In Charleston everything
looked gloomy and sad.  I rode on horseback alone through different parts of the city, and
was warned by officers not to repeat the ride, as, if my name was known, I would be in danger
of being shot.

We arrived in Beaufort on Sunday morning.  The town was then full of contrabands.  We remained
there that day and received an invitation from a negro preacher to attend religious services
at his new meeting-house.  About fifteen or twenty of the party went to the "meeting-house,"
a new unfinished skeleton-frame house of considerable size without any plastering--a mere shell.
We were shown to seats that had been reserved for us.  The rest of the congregation were negroes
in every kind of dress and of every shade of color.  The scene was very interesting, but the
sermon of the preacher was little better than gibberish.  He was a quaint old man, wearing
goggles and speaking a dialect we could hardly understand.  At the close of his sermon he narrated
how the meeting-house had been built; that John had hauled the logs, Tom, Dick and Harry, naming
them, had contributed their labor, but they were in debt something over $200, and, with a significant
glance at our little party, he thought this was a good time to take up a collection.  No sooner
was this said than Cameron, whispering to me, said:  "Let's pay it; I'll give twenty dollars,"
and when the hat came around, instead of the usual dimes and quarters in ragged currency, it
received greenbacks of good denominations.  In the meantime the old preacher, highly elated,
called upon the audience to sing "John Brown's Body." A feeble, piping voice from an old negro
woman started the singing and the rest of the negroes, with loud melodious voices, joined in,
and, before it was through, the rest of us joined in.  The hat, when returned to the preacher,
was found to contain more than fifty dollars in excess of the amount necessary to pay off the
debt. Then, with many thanks to us by the preacher, the audience was requested to remain standing
until their visitors left.

Our visit at Savannah was very interesting.  We there found many leading citizens of the town
who were social and kind, treating us in a friendly way by rides around the city.

In the latter part of March, I was invited by General Sherman, then on a visit to Grant near
Petersburg, Virginia, to go with him to Goldsboro, North Carolina, where his army was then
encamped. Secretary Stanton was my next door neighbor, and our families were intimately associated.
I invited his eldest son, Edwin, then a young man studying law, to accompany me, an invitation
which he gladly accepted.  We joined General Sherman at Fortress Monroe and accompanied him
on the steamer "Bat" to Newbern and thence by rail to Goldsboro.  There was a sense of danger
in traveling by rail through a country mostly unoccupied, but we reached the army at Goldsboro
safely.  There I had my first view of a great army in marching garb.  Most of the troops had
received their new uniforms and equipments, but outlying regiments were constantly coming in,
ragged, with tattered hats, shoes and boots of every description, almost black from exposure
and the smoke of the pine woods, and as hardy a looking set of men as one could conceive of.
They had picked up all kinds of paraphernalia, "stove pipe" hats being the favorite, and had
all sorts of wagons gathered in their march. Their appearance was rapidly changed by new uniforms.
After a brief visit I returned to Washington, and thence to my home in Mansfield.

I was invited soon after, on the 14th of April, to attend a mass meeting at Columbus to celebrate
the success of the Union army. I accepted the invitation and attended an immense meeting in
the open air on the capitol grounds, and there Samuel Galloway and myself made addresses. 
Meetings were held, congratulations uttered in the evening of that day.  The whole city was
in holiday attire, ornamented with flags, and everywhere and with everybody, there was an expression
of joy.  I retired late at night to my room in the hotel, and after my fatigue slept soundly.

Early the next morning Rush Sloane, a personal friend, rapped at my door and announced to me
the news of the assassination of Lincoln, and, as then reported, that of Seward.  The change
from joy to mourning that day in Columbus was marked and impressive.  No event of my life created
a more painful impression than this news following the rejoicings of the day before.  I returned
to Washington and attended the funeral services over the body of Mr. Lincoln, then about to
be carried on the long journey to his old home in Springfield, Illinois.

On the 6th of May, in response to the invitation of my neighbors in Mansfield, I made an address
upon the life and character of the dead President.  It expressed the opinion and respect I
then entertained for him, and now I could add nothing to it.  As time moves on his name and
fame become brighter, while most of his contemporaries are one by one forgotten.

Soon after the death of Mr. Lincoln, the terms of the surrender of General Johnston to General
Sherman became the subject of a violent controversy.  On the 21st of April, Secretary Stanton
issued an order to General Grant to proceed immediately to the headquarters of General Sherman
and direct operations against the enemy.  He issued a bulletin in which he intimated that Davis
and his partisans were on their way to escape to Mexico or Europe with a large amount of gold
plundered from the Richmond banks and from other sources, and that they hoped to make terms
with General Sherman by which they would be permitted with their effects, including their gold
plunder, to go to Mexico or Europe.  The most violent and insulting paragraphs were published
in the newspapers, substantially arraigning General Sherman as a traitor and imputing to him
corrupt motives. I felt myself bound at once, not to defend the terms of surrender, but to
repel the innuendoes aimed at General Sherman.  This led me into a controversy with Mr. Stanton,
not worth while to recall.

I believed then and still believe that he was under the influence of perhaps a well-grounded
fear that his life was in danger.  The atmosphere of Washington seemed to be charged with terror,
caused by the assassination of Lincoln, the wounding of Seward and the threats against all
who were conspicuous in political or military life in the Union cause.  Now, since we are fully
informed of all the surrounding circumstances connected with the surrender, and the belief
of General Sherman that he was strictly carrying out the policy of President Lincoln, it is
plain that he acted in what he supposed was the line of duty.  He did not comprehend that the
fatal crime in Washington changed the whole aspect of affairs. His agreement with Johnston
was on its face declared to be inoperative until approved by the authorities at Washington,
and, while the political features of the surrender could not be approved, a simple notification
of disapproval would have been cheerfully acted upon and the orders of the President would
have been faithfully carried out.

General Sherman, when he received notice of the disapproval of his action, at once notified
Johnston, and new terms were arranged in exact accordance with those conceded by General Grant
to General Lee.

I remained in Washington until the arrival, on the 19th of May, of General Sherman's army,
which encamped by the roadside about half way between Alexandria and the Long Bridge.  I visited
the general there and found that he was still smarting under what he called the disgrace put
upon him by Stanton.  I advised him to keep entirely quiet, said the feeling had passed away
and that his position was perfectly well understood.  I persuaded him to call on the President
and such members of the cabinet as he knew, and accompanied him. He was dressed in full uniform,
well worn, was bronzed and looked the picture of health and strength.  As a matter of course
he refused to call on Stanton and denounced him in unmeasured terms, declaring that he would
insult him whenever the opportunity occurred. When he came in contact with his fellow officers
and found that they sympathized with him his anger abated, and by the time the great review
took place, he seemed to have recovered his usual manner.

The review of General Meade's army was to occur on Tuesday, May 23, and that of General Sherman's,
as it was called, on the 24th. General Sherman, with his wife and her father, Hon. Thomas Ewing,
and myself, were present on the reviewing stand on the first day of the review.  He received
on the stand the congratulations of hundreds of people and seemed to enjoy every moment of
time.  He was constantly pointing out to Mr. Ewing and myself the difference between the eastern
and western armies, in which he evidently preferred the Army of the West.  On the next day,
prompt to the time stated, attended by a brilliant staff, he rode slowly up Pennsylvania avenue
at the head of his column, and was followed by a magnificent army of 65,000 men, organized
into four army corps, and marching with that precision only possible with experienced troops.
His description of the scene in his "Memoirs" proves his deep interest in the appearance of
his army and his evident pride in it.  When he arrived at the grand stand, where the President
reviewed the troops, he dismounted, left the line, came upon the stand and took his place by
the side of the President.  Everyone knew his relations to Stanton, and was curious to see
the result of their meeting.  I stood very near the general, and as he approached he shook
hands with the President and the members of the cabinet, but when Stanton partially reached
out his hand, General Sherman passed him without remark, but everyone within sight could perceive
the intended insult, which satisfied his honor at the expense of his prudence.  However, it
is proper to say that these two men, both eminent in their way, became entirely reconciled
before the death of Mr. Stanton.  General Sherman always stopped with me when he was temporarily
in Washington, and I know that in a brief period they met and conversed in a friendly way.
When Mr. Stanton lay upon his death bed, General Sherman not only called upon him, but tendered
his services, and exhibited every mark of respect for him.

The great body of the volunteer forces was disbanded, the officers and soldiers were returning
to their homes.  To most of them the war was a valuable lesson.  It gave them a start in life
and a knowledge and experience that opened to door to all employment, especially to official
positions in state and nation.  In all popular elections the soldier was generally preferred.
This was a just recognition for his sacrifices and services.  I hope and trust that while a
single survivor of the War of the Rebellion is left among us, he will everywhere be received
with honor and share all the respect which the boys of my generation were so eager to grant
and extend to the heroes of the Revolutionary War.  The service of one was as valuable as the
other, rendered on a broader field, in greater numbers, with greater sacrifices, and with the
same glorious results of securing the continuance of an experiment of free government, the
most successful in the history of mankind and which is now, I profoundly trust, so well secured
by the heroism and valor of our soldiers, that for generations and centuries yet to come no
enemy will dare to aim a blow at the life of the republic. For the wounded and disabled soldiers
and the widows and orphans of those who fell, a larger provision of pensions was freely granted
than ever before by any nation in ancient or modern times. Provision was made by the general
government, and by most of the loyal states, for hospitals and homes for the wounded.  The
bodies of those who died in the service have been carefully collected into cemeteries in all
parts of the United States.  If there has been any neglect or delay in granting pensions, it
has been caused by the vast number of applications--more than a million--and the difficulty
as time passes in securing the necessary proof.  The pension list now, thirty years after the
war, requires annually the sum of more than $150,000,000, or three times the amount of all
the expenses of the national government before the war.  No complaint is made of this, but
Congress readily grants any increase demanded by the feebleness of age or the decay of strength.
I trust, and believe, that this policy will be continued until the last surviving soldier of
the war meets the common fate of all.

I participated in the canvass of 1865, when General Jacob D. Cox, the Republican candidate
for governor of Ohio, and a Republican legislature were elected with but little opposition.
The first duty of this legislature was to elect a Senator.  There was a friendly contest between
General Robert C. Schenck, Hon. John A. Bingham and myself, but I was nominated on the first
ballot and duly elected.

I received many letters from Horace Greeley, in the following one of which he showed great
interest in my re-election to the Senate:

  "New York, February 7, 1865.
"Hon. John Sherman:

"My Dear Sir:--Yours of the 5th inst. at hand.  I can assure you that the combination to supplant
you in the Senate is quite strong and confident of success.  I did not mean to allude to the
controversy, but was compelled to by the dispatch which got into our columns. I observe J.
W. wrote 'locality' as he says, but the change to 'loyalty' was a very awkward one in these
days; so I felt compelled to correct it.

"I fear more the raids of Thad. Stevens on the treasury than those of Mosby on our lines.

  "Yours,
  "Horace Greeley."

When Congress met on the 4th of December, 1865, it had before it two important problems which
demanded immediate attention.  One was a measure for the reconstruction of the states lately
in rebellion and the other was a plan for refunding and paying the public debt.  It was unfortunate
that no measure had been provided before the close of the war defining the condition of the
states lately in rebellion, securing the freedmen in their new-born rights, and restoring these
states to their place in the Union.  Therefore, during the long vacation, from April to December,
the whole matter was left to executive authority.  If Lincoln had lived, his action would have
been acquiesced in.  It would have been liberal, based upon universal emancipation of negroes,
and pardon to rebels.  It was supposed that President Johnson would err, if at all, in imposing
too harsh terms upon these states.  His violent speeches in the canvass of 1864, and his fierce
denunciation of the leaders in the Rebellion, led us all to suppose that he would insist upon
a reconstruction by the loyal people of the south and that reasonable protection would be extended
to the emancipated negroes.  The necessity of legislation for the reconstruction of the Confederate
states was foreseen and provision had been made by Congress, during the war, by what was known
as the Wade-Davis bill, to provide for the reorganization of these states.  During the 37th
Congress, Henry Winter Davis, though not then a Member of the House of Representatives, prepared
a bill to meet this exigency.  It was a bill to guarantee to each state a republican form of
government. It embodied a plan by which these states, then declared by Congress to be in a
state of insurrection, might, when that insurrection was subdued or abandoned, come back freely
and voluntarily into the Union.  It provided for representation, for the election of a convention
and a legislature, and of Senators and Members of Congress.  It was a complete guarantee to
the people of the insurrectionary states that upon certain conditions these states might resume
their place in the Union when the insurrection had ceased.  This bill he handed to me.  I introduced
it at his request. It was referred to the judiciary committee, but was not acted upon by it.

Afterwards Mr. Davis came into the 38th Congress as a Member of the House of Representatives.
Among the first acts performed by him after taking his seat was the introduction of this same
bill. On the 15th of December, 1863, it was debated in the House of Representatives and passed
by a very decided vote, and was sent to the Senate.  It was reported to the Senate favorably,
but in place of it was substituted a proposition offered by B. Gratz Brown, of Missouri.  This
substitute provided a mode by which the eleven Confederate states might, when the Rebellion
was suppressed within their limits, be restored to their old places in the Union.  The bill
was sent back to the House with the proposed substitute.  A committee of conference was appointed,
and the House preferring the original bill, the Senate receded from its amendment, and what
was known as the Wade-Davis bill passed.

He added his reasons for not approving the Wade-Davis bill.  He did not entirely disapprove
of it, but said it was one of numerous plans which might be adopted.  Mr. Sumner stated, on
the floor of the Senate, that he had had an interview with President Lincoln immediately after
the publication of that proclamation, and it was the subject of very minute and protracted
conversation, in the course of which, after discussing the details, Mr. Lincoln expressed his
regret that he had not approved the bill.  I have always thought that Mr. Lincoln made a serious
mistake in defeating a measure, which, if adopted, would have averted many if not all the difficulties
that subsequently arose in the reconstruction of the rebel states.

The next and closing session of that Congress neglected to provide for the reorganization of
these states, and, thus, when Mr. Johnson became President, there was no provision of law to
guide him in the necessary process of reconstruction.  Thus, by the disagreement between Congress
and President Lincoln, which commenced two years before the close of the war, there was no
law upon the statute book to guide either the President or the people of the southern states
in their effort to get back into the Union.  It became imperative during the long period before
the meeting of Congress that President Johnson should, in the absence of legislation, formulate
some plan for the reconstruction of these states.  He did adopt substantially the plan proposed
and acted upon by Mr. Lincoln.  After this long lapse of time I am convinced that Mr. Johnson's
scheme of reconstruction was wise and judicious.  It was unfortunate that it had not the sanction
of Congress and that events soon brought the President and Congress into hostility.  Who doubts
that if there had been a law upon the statute book by which the people of the southern states
could have been guided in their effort to come back into the Union, they would have cheerfully
followed it, although the conditions had been hard?  In the absence of law both Lincoln and
Johnson did substantially right when they adopted a plan of their own and endeavored to carry
it into execution.  Johnson, before he was elected and while acting as military governor of
Tennessee, executed the plan of Lincoln in that state and subsequently adopted the same plan
for the reorganization of the rebel states.  In all these plans the central idea was that the
states in insurrection were still states, entitled to be treated as such.  They were described
as "The eleven states which have been declared to be in insurrection."

In all the plans proposed in Congress, as well as in the plan of Johnson, it was declared that
states had no right while in insurrection to elect electors to the electoral college; they
had no right to elect Senators and Representatives.  In other words they could not resume the
powers, rights and privileges conferred upon states by the Constitution of the United States,
except by the consent of Congress.  Having taken up arms against the United States, they by
that act lost their constitutional powers within the United States to govern and control our
councils.  They could not engage in the election of a President, or of Senators or Members
of Congress; but they were still states.  The supreme power of Congress to change, alter or
modify the acts of the President and to admit or reject these states and their Senators and
Representatives at its will and pleasure, and the constitutional right of the respective Houses
to judge of the election, returns and qualifications of its own Members were recognized.  When
Mr. Johnson came into power he found the Rebellion substantially subdued.  His first act was
to retain in his confidence, and in his councils, every member of the cabinet of Abraham Lincoln,
and, so far as we know, every measure adopted by him had the approval and sanction of that
cabinet. Every act passed by Congress, with or without his assent, upon every subject whatever,
connected with reconstruction, was fairly and fully executed.  He adopted all the main features
of the Wade- Davis bill--the only one passed by Congress.

Thus, with a single stroke, he swept away the whole superstructure of the Rebellion.  He extended
the tax laws of the United States over the rebel territory.

He enforced in every case full and ample protection to the freedmen of the southern states.
No complaint from them was ever brought to his knowledge in which he did not do full and substantial
justice. The principal objection to his policy was that he did not extend his proclamation
to all the loyal men of the southern states, including the colored as well as the white people.
It must be remembered in his justification that in every one of the eleven states before the
Rebellion the negro was, by the laws, excluded from the right to vote.  In Ohio, Pennsylvania
and New York that right was limited.  In a large majority of the states, including the most
populous, negro suffrage was then prohibited.  It would seem to be a great stretch of power
on his part, by a simple mandatory proclamation or military order, to confer the franchise
on a class of people, who were then prohibited from voting not only in the eleven southern
states, but in a majority of the northern states.  Such a provision, if it had been inserted,
could not have been enforced, and, in the condition in which slavery left the negro race, it
could hardly be defended.  I cannot see any reason why, because a man is black, he should not
vote, and yet, in making laws, as the President was then doing, for the government of the community,
he had to regard the prejudices, not only of the people among whom the laws were to be executed,
but also of the army and the people who were to execute those laws, and no man can doubt but
what at that time there was a strong and powerful prejudice in the army and among all classes
of citizens against extending the right of suffrage to negroes, especially down in the far
south, where the great body of the slaves were in abject ignorance.

It must be also noted that in the Wade-Davis bill Congress did not and would not make negro
suffrage a part of its plan.  Even so radical an anti-slavery man as my colleague, Senator
Wade, did not propose such a measure.  The effort was made to give emancipated negroes the
right to vote, and it was abandoned.  By that bill the suffrage was conferred only upon white
male loyal citizens.  And in the plan of the President, he adopted in this respect the very
same conditions for suffrage as those proposed by Congress.  I believe that all the acts and
proclamations of President Johnson before the meeting of Congress were wise and expedient,
and that there would have been no difficulty between Congress and the President but for his
personal conduct, and, especially, his treatment of Congress and leading Congressmen.  The
unfortunate occurrence, already narrated, at his inauguration, was followed by violent and
disrespectful language, unbecoming the President, especially, his foolish speech made on the
22nd of February, 1866, in which he selected particular persons as the objects of denunciation.
He said:

"I fought traitors and treason in the south.  I opposed the Davises, the Toombses, the Slidells,
and a long list of others, which you can readily fill without my repeating the names.  Now,
when I turn round, and at the other end of the line find men, I care not by what name you call
them, who still stand opposed to the restoration of the Union of these states, I am free to
say to you that I am still in the field."

And again he said:

"I am called upon to name three at the other end of the line; I am talking to my friends and
fellow-citizens, who are interested with me in this government, and I presume I am free to
mention to you the names of those whom I look upon as being opposed to the fundamental principles
of this government, and who are laboring to pervert and destroy it."

Voices:  "Name them!"  "Who are they!"

He replied:

"You ask me who they are.  I say Thaddeus Stevens, of Pennsylvania, is one; I say Mr. Sumner,
of the Senate, is another; and Wendell Phillips is another."

The violence of language, so unlike that of Abraham Lincoln, added to the hostility to Mr.
Johnson in Congress, and, I think, more than any other cause, led to his impeachment by the
House of Representatives.

In the beginning of the controversy between Congress and the President, I tried to act as a
peacemaker.  I knew Mr. Johnson personally, his good and his bad qualities.  I sat by his side
in the Senate chamber during the first two years of the war.  I was with him in his canvass
in 1864.  I sympathized with him in his struggles with the leaders of the Rebellion and admired
his courage during the war, when, as Governor of Tennessee, he reorganized that state upon
a loyal basis.  The defect of his character was his unreasoning pugnacity.  He early became
involved in wordy warfare with Sumner, Wade, Stevens and others.  In his high position he could
have disregarded criticism, but this was not the habit of Johnson.  When assailed he fought,
and could be as violent and insulting in language and acts as anyone.

Under these circumstances I made a long and carefully considered speech in the Senate on the
26th of February, 1866, in which I stated the position of Congress on the reconstruction measures,
and the policy adopted by Johnson from Lincoln.  Either of these plans would have accomplished
the provisional restoration of these states to the Union, while all agreed that, when admitted,
they would be armed with all the powers of states, subject only to the constitution of the
United States.  I believed then, and believe now, that the quarrel with Johnson did much to
weaken the Republican party.  In consequence of it several Republican Senators and Members
severed their connection with that party and joined the Democratic party.  Johnson, irritated
by this antagonism, drifted away from the measures he had himself advocated and soon after
was in open opposition to the party that elected him.  I here insert passages from my speech,
which expressed my views at the time, and which I now feel were justified by the then existing
opinions and conditions of political life:

"Sir, I can imagine no calamity more disgraceful than for us by our divisions to surrender,
to men who to their country were enemies in war, any or all of the powers of this government.
He, who contributes in any way to this result, deserves the execrations of his countrymen.
This may be done by thrusting upon the President new issues on which the well-known principles
of his life do not agree with the judgment of his political associates.  It may be done by
irritating controversies of a personal character.  It may be done by the President turning
his back upon those who trusted him with high power, and thus linking his name with one of
the most disgraceful in American history, that of John Tyler.  I feel an abiding confidence
that Andrew Johnson will not and cannot do this; and, sir, who will deny that the overbearing
and intolerant will of Henry Clay contributed very much to the defection of John Tyler? But
the division of the Whig party was an event utterly insignificant in comparison with the evil
results of a division in the Union party.

"Where will be the four million slaves whom by your policy you have emancipated?  What would
be their miserable fate if now surrendered to the custody of the rebels of the south?  Will
you, by your demand of universal suffrage, destroy the power of the Union party to protect
them in their dearly purchased liberty?  Will you, by new issues upon which you know you have
not the voice of the people, jeopard these rights which you can by the aid of the Union party
secure to these freedmen?  We know that the President can not and will not unite with us upon
the issues of universal suffrage and dead states, and he never agreed to.  No such dogmas were
contemplated, when, for his heroic services in the cause of the Union, we placed him, side
by side, with Mr. Lincoln as our standard-bearer.  Why, then, present these issues?  Why decide
upon them?  Why not complete the work so gloriously done by our soldiers in securing union
and liberty to all men without distinction of color, leaving to the states, as before, the
question of suffrage.

"Sir, the curse of God, the maledictions of millions of our people, and the tears and blood
of new-made freedmen will, in my judgment, rest upon those who now for any cause destroy the
unity of the great party that has led us through the wilderness of war.  We want now peace
and repose.  We must now look to our public credit.  We have duties to perform to the business
interests of the country, in which we need the assistance of the President.  We have every
motive for harmony with him and with each other, and for a generous and manly trust in his
patriotism.  If ever the time shall come when I can no longer confide in his devotion to the
principles upon which he was elected, I will bid farewell to Andrew Johnson with unaffected
sorrow.  I will remember when he stood in this very spot, five years ago, repelling with unexampled
courage the assaults of traitors.  He left in their hands wife, children, property, and home,
and staked them all on the result.  I will remember that when a retreating general would have
left Nashville to its fate, that again, with heroic courage, he maintained his post.  I will
remember the fierce conflicts and trials through which he and his fellow- compatriots in east
Tennessee maintained our cause in the heart of the Confederacy.  I will remember the struggles
he had with the aristocratic element of Tennessee, never ashamed of his origin and never far
from the hearts of the people.

"Sir, you must not sever the great Union party from this loyal element of the southern states.
No new theories of possible utopian good can compensate for the loss of such patriotism and
devotion. Time, as he tells you in his message, is a great element of reform, and time is on
your side.  I remember the homely and encouraging words of a pioneer in the anti-slavery cause,
an expelled Methodist preacher from the south, who told those who were behind him in his strong
anti-slavery opinions:  'Well, friends, I'll block up awhile; we must all travel together.'
So I say to all who doubt Andrew Johnson, or who wish to move more rapidly than he can, to
block up awhile, to consolidate their great victory with the certainty that reason and the
Almighty will continue their work.  All wisdom will not die with us.  The highest human wisdom
is to do all the good you can, but not to sacrifice a possible good to attempt the impracticable.
God knows that I do not urge harmony and conciliation from any personal motive.  The people
of my native state have intrusted me with a position here extending four years beyond the termination
of the President's term of office.  He can grant me no favor.

"If I believed for a moment that he would seek an alliance with those who, by either arms or
counsel or even apathy, were against their country in the recent war, and will turn over to
them the high powers intrusted to him by the Union party, then, sir, he is dishonored, and
will receive no assistance from me; but I will not force him into that attitude.  And while,
as he tells us in this same message, he only asks for states to be represented which are presented
in an attitude of loyalty and harmony and in the persons of representatives whose loyalty cannot
be questioned under any constitutional or legal test, surely we ought not to separate from
him until, at least, we prescribe a test of their loyalty, upon which we are willing to stand.
We have not done it yet.  I will not try him by new creeds.  I will not denounce him for hasty
words uttered in repelling personal affronts.

"I see him yet surrounded by the cabinet of Abraham Lincoln, pursuing Lincoln's policy.  No
word from me shall drive him into political fellowship with those who, when he was one of the
moral heroes of this war, denounced, spit upon him, and despitefully used him. The association
must be self-sought, and even then I will part with him in sorrow, but with the abiding hope
that the same Almighty power that has guided us through the recent war will be with us still
in our new difficulties until every state is restored to its full communion and fellowship,
and until our nation, purified by war, will assume among the nations of the earth the grand
position hoped for by Washington, Clay, Webster, Lincoln, and hundreds of thousands of unnamed
heroes who gave up their lives for its glory."

I received many letters in commendation of this speech, among others the following from Thurlow
Weed, who was in full sympathy with Secretary Seward:

  "Albany, N. Y., February 28, 1866.
"Dear Sherman:--You have spoken words of wisdom and patriotism--
spoken them boldly at the right time.  They will help save the
Union--and they will save the Union particularly if fanatics and
despots will allow it to be saved.  Just such a speech at the moment
it was made is worth more than all that has been said in Congress
since the session commenced.  I thank you gratefully for it.

  "Yours truly,
  "Thurlow Weed."

I still hoped that the pending civil rights bill would be approved by the President, and that
then the controversy would end.  On the 17th of March, 1866, I made a speech at Bridgeport,
Conn., in which I said:

"Now, I say, that upon all these various propositions, upon the necessity of a change in the
basis of representation, upon the necessity for protecting the negroes, upon this question
of suffrage --upon all these questions that have arisen in our politics of late, the differences
between Andrew Johnson and Congress are not such as need excite the alarm of any patriotic
citizen.  No, my friends, we have a great duty to perform to our country.  Every man in public
life now has a heavy responsibility resting upon him, in the discharge of which he is bound
to follow the dictates of his own conscience, given to him by Almighty God.  There are, there
must be, differences of opinion; God has so made us that we must differ; it is the established
nature of the human mind to disagree. It is only by discussion and comparison of views that
the highest human wisdom is elicited.  Therefore, I say again, that no Union man need feel
anxious or uneasy because of the differences between the President and Congress.  Let me tell
you, as the solemn conviction with which I address you to-night, that Andrew Johnson never
will throw the power we have given him into the hands of the Copperhead party of the United States.

"I have many reasons for this faith.  One is that no nomination has ever been sent by Andrew
Johnson to the Senate of the United States of any man of that stripe of politics.  No flattery,
no cajolery can draw him from that line.  He is a man who fights his own battles, and whether
they are old friends or foes that assail him he fights them with equal freedom and boldness,
and sometimes, perhaps indiscreetly; but that is a fault of his character, which need excite
no uneasiness in the minds of the people.

"On Thursday, the day that I left Washington, we sent to him a bill which secures to all the
colored population of the southern states equal rights before the law, the civil rights bill.
It declares that no state shall exclude any man on account of his color from any of the natural
rights which, by the Declaration of Independence, are declared to be inalienable; it provides
that every man may sue and be sued, may plead and be impleaded, may acquire and hold property,
may purchase, contract, sell and convey; all those rights are secured to the negro population.
That bill is now in the hands of the President.  If he sign it, it will be a solemn pledge
of the law-making power of the nation that the negroes shall have secured to them all these
natural and inalienable rights.  I believe the President will sign it."

Unfortunately at the end of ten days the President sent to the Senate the civil rights bill,
referred to, with his message vetoing it.  It passed both Houses with the requisite two-thirds
majority, and thus became a law.  This veto was followed by other vetoes, and, practically,
the President abandoned his party.  From this time forth, I heartily joined with my political
associates in the measures adopted to secure a loyal reorganization of the southern states.
I was largely influenced by the harsh treatment of the freedmen in the south under acts adopted
by the reconstructed legislatures.  The outrages of the Ku-Klux-Klan seemed to me to be so
atrocious and wicked that the men who committed them were not only unworthy to govern, but
unfit to live.  The weakness of the position of Congress in the controversy with Mr. Johnson,
was, that it had furnished no plan of reconstruction and he was compelled to act upon the urgency
of events.  Many efforts were made to provide legislation to take the place of the proclamations
and acts of the President, but a wide divergence of opinion in the Republican party manifested
itself, and no substantial progress was made until near the close of the second session of
the 39th Congress.  Several bills were then pending in each House to provide governments for
the insurrectionary states.  On the 13th of February, 1867, during the short session, a bill
with that title came from the House of Representatives.  It was manifest unless this bill could
be acted upon, that, in the then condition of Congress, all legislation would fail.  It was
kept before the Senate and thoroughly debated. On the 16th of February, after consultation
with my political colleagues, I moved a substitute for the House bill.  The fifth section of
this substitute embodied a comprehensive plan for the organization of the rebel states with
provision for elections in said states, and the conditions required for their administration
and restoration to the Union and the exercise by them of all the powers of states, and provided
for the election of Senators and Members of Congress.  In presenting this substitute, I briefly
stated my reasons for it, as follows:

"The principle of this bill is contained in the first two lines of the preamble.  It is founded
upon the proclamation of the President and Secretary of State made just after the assassination
of President Lincoln, in which they declared specifically that the Rebellion had overthrown
all civil governments in the insurrectionary states, and they proceeded by an executive mandate
to create governments. They were provisional in their character, and dependent for their validity
solely upon the action of Congress.  These are propositions which it is not now necessary for
me to demonstrate.  These governments have never been sanctioned by Congress, nor by the people
of the states where they exist.  Taking that proclamation and the acknowledged fact that the
people of the southern states, the loyal people, whites and blacks, are not protected in their
rights, but that an unusual and extraordinary number of cases occur of violence, and murder,
and wrong, I do think it is the duty of the United States to protect these people in the enjoyment
of substantial rights.

"Now, the first four sections of this substitute contain nothing but what is the present law.
There is not a single thing in the first four sections that does not now exist by law.

"The first section authorizes the division of the rebel states into military districts.  That
is being done daily.

"The second section acknowledges that the President is the commanding officer of the army,
and it is made his duty to assign certain officers to those districts.  That is clearly admitted
to be right.

"The third section does no more than what the Supreme Court in their recent decision have decided
could be done in a state in insurrection.  The Supreme Court in their recent decisions, while
denying that a military tribunal could be organized in Indiana because it never had been in
a state of insurrection, expressly declared that these tribunals might have been, and might
now be, organized in insurrectionary states.  There is nothing in this third section, in my
judgment, that is not now and has not been done every month within the last twelve months by
the President of the United States.  The orders of General Sickles, and many other orders I
might quote, have gone further in punishment of crime than this section proposes.

"Now, in regard to the fourth section, that is a limitation upon the present law.  Under the
present law many executions of military tribunals are summarily carried out.  This section
requires all sentences of military tribunals which affect the liberty of the citizen to be
sent to the commanding officer of the district.  They must be approved by the commanding officer
of the district; and so far as life is concerned the President may issue his order at any moment
now, or after this bill passes, directing that the military commander of the district shall
not enforce a sentence of death until it is submitted to him, because the military officer
is a mere subordinate of the President, remaining there at the pleasure of the President.

"There is nothing, therefore, in these sections, that ought to alarm the nerves of my friend
from Pennsylvania, or anybody else. I cannot think that these gentlemen are alarmed about the
state of despotism that President Johnson is to establish in the southern states.  I do not
feel alarmed; nor do I see anything in these sections as they now stand that need endanger
the rights of the most timid citizen of the United States.  They are intended to protect a
race of people who are now without protection.

"Now, in regard to the fifth section, which is the main and material feature of this bill,
I think it is right that the Congress of the United States, before its adjournment, should
designate some way by which the southern states may reorganize loyal state governments in harmony
with the constitution and laws of the United States, and the sentiment of the people, and find
their way back to these halls.  My own judgment is that the fifth section will point out a
clear, easy, and right way for these states to be restored to their full power in the government.
All that it demands of the people of the southern states is to extend to all their male citizens,
without distinction of race or color, the elective franchise.  It is now too late in the day
to be frightened by this simple proposition.  Senators can make the most of it as a political
proposition.  Upon that we are prepared to meet them.  But it does point out a way by which
the twenty absent Senators, and the fifty absent Representatives can get back to these halls,
and there is no other way by which they can justly do it.  That is the view I take of this
amended bill; and taking that view of it I see no reason in the world why we should not all
vote for it."

The substitute was adopted on the same day and the bill, thus amended, was passed by a vote
of yeas 29, nays 10.  In the House it was agreed to with slight amendments, which were finally
concurred in by the Senate, on February 20, 1867.  It was sent to the President and was not
approved by him, but was, on the 2nd of March, passed over his veto by a vote of two-thirds
of both Houses.

Upon the law, long deferred, the several states mentioned in it were organized and restored
to their place in the Union.

At the same time, the financial question, embracing the currency, the public debt and the national
revenue were of the highest importance and demanded immediate consideration.  Hugh McCulloch,
the Secretary of the Treasury, had been during most of his life a banker in the State of Indiana,
of acknowledged ability as such, but with little or no experience as a financier dealing with
public questions.  He was the first comptroller of the currency under the banking act, and
rendered valuable service in organizing the system of national banks, though he had not originally
favored the system, but was, at the time of its adoption, a strong supporter of sound state
banks.  In his first report to Congress on the 4th of December, 1865, he, as Secretary of the
Treasury, took strong ground against United States notes as a circulating medium and their
being made a legal tender as money.  He regarded the legal tender acts as war measures, and,
while he did not recommend their repeal, he expressed his opinion that they ought not to remain
in force one day longer than would be necessary to enable the people to prepare for a return
to the constitutional currency.  He denied the authority of Congress to issue these notes except
in the nature of a loan, and affirmed that the statute making them a legal tender for all debts,
public and private, was not within the scope of the duties or the constitutional powers of
Congress; that their issue as lawful money was a measure necessary in a great emergency, but,
as this emergency did not then exist, the government should, as speedily as possible, withdraw
them, and he recommended that the work of retiring the notes should be commenced without delay
and carefully and persistently continued until all were retired.  He proposed to do this by
the sale of bonds for United States notes outstanding and their withdrawal and cancellation.
He recommended as a substitute the notes of national banks, but even these notes he thought
redundant, and said:

"There is no fact more manifest that the plethora of paper money is not only undermining the
morals of the people by encouraging waste and extravagance, but is striking at the root of
our material prosperity by diminishing labor . . . and if not speedily checked, will, at no
distant day, culminate in widespread disaster.  The remedy, and the only remedy within the
control of Congress, is, in the opinion of the secretary, to be found in the reduction of the
currency."

The chief part of his report was devoted to the danger of inflation and the necessity of contraction.
He said the longer contraction was delayed the greater must the fall eventually be, and the
more serious its consequences.

In accordance with the recommendations of Secretary McCulloch, a bill was introduced in the
House by Justin S. Morrill, which authorized the Secretary of the Treasury, at his discretion,
to sell any of the description of bonds authorized by the act of March 3, 1865, the proceeds
to be used only to retire treasury notes or other obligations issued under any act of Congress.
This bill as reported would have placed in the power of the secretary the retirement of all
United States notes at his discretion.

The bill as it came to the Senate was as follows:

"An act to amend an act entitled 'An act to provide ways and means to support the government,'
approved March third, eighteen hundred and sixty-five.

"Sec. 2.  And be it further enacted, That the Secretary of the Treasury shall report to Congress
at the commencement of the next session the amount of exchanges made or money borrowed under
this act, and of whom and on what terms; and also the amount and character of indebtedness
retired under this act, and the act to which this is an amendment, with a detailed statement
of the expense of making such loans and exchanges."

This bill, without change, became a law April 12, 1866.  I believed then, and now know, that
the passage of this law was a great misfortune.  It enabled the Secretary of the Treasury to
retire at a rapid rate United States notes and to largely increase the bonded indebtedness
of the United States.  It would no doubt have brought us abruptly to the specie standard and
made us dependent for circulating notes upon the issues of national banks.

At this time there was a wide difference of opinion between Secretary McCulloch and myself
as to the financial policy of the government in respect to the public debt and the currency.
He was in favor of a rapid contraction of the currency by funding it into interest bearing
bonds.  I was in favor of maintaining in circulation the then existing volume of currency as
an aid to the funding of all forms of interest-bearing securities into bonds redeemable within
a brief period at the pleasure of the United States, and bearing as low a rate of interest
as possible.  Both of us were in favor of specie payments, he by contraction and I by the gradual
advancement of the credit and value of our currency to the specie standard. With him specie
payments was the primary object, with me it was a secondary object, to follow the advancing
credit of the government. Each of us was in favor of the payment of the interest of bonds in
coin, and the principal, when due, in coin.  A large proportion of national securities were
payable in lawful money, or United States notes.  He, by contraction, would have made this
payment more difficult, while I, by retaining the notes in existence, would induce the holders
of currency certificates to convert them into coin obligations bearing a lower rate of interest.

During this period a party sprang up composed of men of all parties called the Greenback party,
who favored an increase of United States notes, and the payment of all United States bonds
and securities in such notes.  This difference of opinion continued until the resumption of
specie payments, in January, 1879.

I propose to state here the measures adopted in respect to the national currency and debt during
the rest of the administration of President Johnson.

The total debt of the United States on the 31st of October, 1865, was $2,808,549,437.55 in
twenty-five different forms of indebtedness of which, $1,200,000,000 was payable at the option
of the Secretary of the Treasury, or within a brief period.  The amount of United States notes
outstanding was then $428,160,569, and of fractional currency $26,057,469, in all $545,218,038.
All of this money was in active circulation, in great favor among the people, worth in use
as much as national bank notes, and rapidly rising in value compared with coin.  It was the
least burdensome form of indebtedness then existing.  The treasury notes and compound interest
notes were in express terms payable in this lawful money, and, therefore, bore a higher rate
of interest than the bonds, which, by their express terms or necessary implication, were payable
in coin only.

It was insisted that the amount of United States notes was in excess of what was needed for
currency in time of peace and might safely be gradually reduced.  This effort to contract the
currency was firmly resisted by several Senators, myself among them.  The Supreme Court decided
that Congress had full power to make these notes a legal tender.  They were far better than
any form of currency previously existing in the United States.  During the war, when the expenditures
of the government reached nearly $1,000,000,000 a year they were indispensable.  Those most
opposed to irredeemable paper money acknowledged this necessity.  The only objection to them
was that they were not equivalent to coin in purchasing power. After the war was over, the
general desire of all was to advance these notes nearer to par with coin, but not to withdraw
them. The rising credit and financial strength of the United States would, it was believed,
bring them to par without injustice to the debtor, but the rapid withdrawal of the notes would
add to the burden of debts and cripple all forms of industry.  It would convert the compound
interest notes and treasury notes bearing seven and three tenths per cent. interest, amounting
to over $1,000,000,000 expressly payable in United States notes, into coin liabilities.  The
bill prepared at the treasury department contemplated the conversion of all United States notes
into bonds.  In that form the bill was defeated in the House of Representatives, but it was
reconsidered and an amendment was then made limiting the retirement of notes to $4,000,000
a month.  This gained for the bill enough votes to secure its passage.  Even the withdrawal
of $48,000,000 a year was soon found to be oppressive and was subsequently repealed.

When this bill came before the committee on finance, I found myself alone in opposition to
it.  I could not impress my colleagues of the committee with the grave importance of the measure,
and its wide-reaching influence upon our currency, debt and credit.  They regarded it simply
as a bill to change the form of our securities. I felt confident that without the use of United
States notes we could not make this exchange.  When the bill was brought before the Senate
by Mr. Fessenden, chairman of the committee, he made no statement of its terms, but only said:

"I have merely to say that this bill is reported by the committee on finance without amendment
as it came from the House of Representatives.  The committee on finance, on careful examination
of it, came to the conclusion that the bill was well enough as it stood, and did not deem it
advisable to make any amendment.  It has been before the Senate a considerable time, and I
presume every Senator understands it.  I ask, therefore, for the question."

I replied:

"I regret very much that I differ from the committee on finance in regard to this bill.  This
is the only bill on the subject of the public debt on which I have not been able to concur
with that committee. . . .

"If Senators will read this bill they will find that it confers on the Secretary of the Treasury
greater powers than have ever been conferred, since the foundation of this government, upon
any Secretary of the Treasury.  Our loan laws, heretofore, have generally been confined to
the negotiation of a single loan, limited in amount.  As the war progressed, the difficulties
of the country became greater, and we were more in the habit of removing the limitations on
the power of the Secretary of the Treasury; but generally the power conferred was confined
to a particular loan then in the market.  This bill, however, is more general in its terms.
This bill authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to sell any character of bonds without limit,
except as to the rate of interest.  The authority conferred does not limit him to any form
of security.  It may run for any period of time within forty years. He may sell the securities
at less than par, without limitation as to rate.  He may sell them in any form he chooses.
He may put them in the form of treasury notes or bonds, the interest payable in gold or in
paper money.  He may undertake, under the provisions of this bill, to fund the whole debt of
the United States.  The only limit as to amount is the public debt, now $2,700,000,000.  The
power conferred on the Secretary of the Treasury is absolute.  It is not only for this year,
or during the current fiscal year, or for the next year, but it is for all time, until the
act shall be repealed.  It gives him absolute power to negotiate bonds of the United States
to the amount of $2,700,000,000, without limiting the rate at which they shall be sold, and
only limiting the rate of interest inferentially.  The description of the bonds in the act
of March 3, 1865, referred to here, would probably limit the rate of interest to six per cent.
in coin, and seven and three- tenths per cent. in currency; but with this exception there is
no limitation.

"It seems to me that in the present condition of our finances there is no necessity for conferring
these large powers on the Secretary of the Treasury.  The people are not generally aware of
the favorable condition of our finances.  The statement of the public debt laid on our tables
the other day does not show fully the condition of the finances.  It is accurate in amounts,
but does not give dates of the maturity of our debts.  But a small portion of the debt of the
United States will be due prior to August, 1867, that will give the secretary any trouble.
But little of the debt which he will be required to fund under the provisions of this bill
matures before August, 1867.  The temporary or call loan, now over one hundred millions, may
readily be kept at this sum even at a reduced rate of interest.  The certificates of indebtedness,
amounting to sixty- two millions, may easily be paid from accruing receipts, or, if necessary,
may be renewed or funded at the pleasure of the secretary. None of the compound interest notes
or the seven-thirty notes mature until August, 1867. . . .

"There is, therefore, no immediate necessity for these vast powers. The question then naturally
occurs, why grant them?  I have carefully considered this question, and I do not think there
is now any immediate necessity for granting these powers.  No debt is maturing that is likely
to give the government any trouble; and yet we are now about to confer upon the Secretary of
the Treasury, powers that we cannot, in the nature of things, recall.  It is true we may repeal
this law next year, but we know very well that when these large powers are granted they are
very seldom recalled; they are made the precedents of further grants of powers and are very
rarely recalled.  It seems to me that the whole object of the passage of this bill is to place
it within the power of the Secretary of the Treasury to contract the currency of the country,
and thus, as I think, to produce an unnecessary strain upon the people.  This power I do not
think ought to be given to him.  The House of Representatives did not intend to give him this
power.  They debated the bill a long time, and it was defeated on the ground that they would
not confer on the secretary this power to reduce the currency, and finally it was only passed
with a proviso contained in the bill which I will now read:

'Provided, That of United States notes not more than $10,000,000 may be retired and canceled
within six months from the passage of this act, and thereafter not more than $4,000,000 in
any one month.'

"The purpose of the House of Representatives was, while giving the secretary power to fund
the debt as it matured or even before maturity, giving him the most ample power over the debt
of the United States, to limit his power over the currency, lest he might carry to an extreme
the view presented by him in his annual report. If this proviso would accomplish the purpose
designed by the House of Representatives, I would cease all opposition to this bill; but I
know it will not, and for the very obvious reason, that there is no restraint upon the power
of the Secretary of the Treasury to accumulate legal tender notes in the treasury.  He may
retire $200,000,000 of legal tender notes by retaining them in his possession without cancellation,
and thus accomplish the very purpose the House of Representatives did not intend to allow him
to accomplish. He may sell the bonds of the United States, at any rate he chooses, for legal
tenders, and he may hold those legal tenders in his vaults, thus retiring them from the business
of the country, and thus produce the very contraction which the House of Representatives meant
to deny him power to do.  Therefore, this proviso, which only limits the power of canceling
securities or notes, does not limit his power over the currency, and he may, without violating
this bill, in pursuance of the very terms of this bill, contract the currency according to
his own good will and pleasure.

"My own impression is, that the Secretary of the Treasury, in carrying out his own policy,
will do so.  He says he will not contract it unreasonably or too rapidly, but I believe he
will contract the currency in this way.  He has now in the vaults of the treasury $60,000,000
in currency and $62,000,000 in gold--a larger balance, I believe, than was ever before kept
in the treasury until within the last two or three months; a larger balance than was ever found
in the treasury during the war.  What is the object of accumulating these vast balances in
the treasury?  Simply to carry out his policy of contraction.  With this power of retaining
in the treasury the money that comes in, what does he care for the limitation put upon this
bill by the House of Representatives? That says that he shall not retire and cancel more than
$10,000,000 of United States notes within six months, and not more than $4,000,000 in any one
month thereafter; but why need he retire and cancel them when he can retain them in the vaults
of the treasury, and thus contract the currency? . . .

"I do not doubt in the least either the integrity or the capacity of the present incumbent
of the treasury department.  I have as much confidence in him as anyone; but this question
of the currency is one that affects so intimately all the business relations of life, the property
of every man in this country, his ability to pay taxes, his ability to earn food and acquire
a living, that no man ought to have the power to vary the volume of currency.  It ought to
be regulated by law, and the law ought to be so fixed and so defined that every business man
may transact his business with full knowledge of the amount of the currency, with all its limits
and qualifications.  I ask you, sir, how any prudent or judicious man can now engage in any
important business, in which he is compelled to go into debt, with this large power hanging
over him. It would be unsafe for him to do so.  The amount of the currency ought to be fixed
by law, whether much or little.  There ought to be a limit, and no man ought to have the power
at pleasure to enlarge or contract that limit. . . .

"Then there is the further power to reduce the currency, a power that has not heretofore been
granted to any Secretary of the Treasury.  The amount heretofore has been fixed and limited
by law. By the first clause of this bill the secretary is authorized to receive treasury notes,
or United States notes of any form or description, and there is no limitation to this power,
except the clause which I have read to you.  That limits his power to retire and cancel the
United States notes, but not to accumulate the enormous balances on hand.  My own impression
has been, and when this bill was before the committee on finance I believed, it would be better
for that committee to report to the Senate a financial project to fund the debt of the United
States.  I believe that now is the favorable time to do it.  If a five per cent. bond, a long
bond of proper description and proper guarantee, was now placed upon the market, with such
ample powers to negotiate it as ought to be given to the Secretary of the Treasury, such a
loan as was authorized two years ago, at a reduced rate of interest, to be exempt from taxation,
I have no doubt whatever, the Secretary of the Treasury could fund every portion of the debt
of the United States as it matured. . . .

"I do not like to embarrass a bill of this kind with amendments, because I know it is difficult
to consider amendments of this sort, requiring an examination of figures and tables.  I have
prepared a bill very carefully, with a view to meet my idea, but I will not present it now
in antagonism to this bill passed by the House of Representatives and the view taken by the
finance committee, because I know, in the present condition of the Senate, it would not probably
be fully considered.  My only purpose now is to point out the fact that is perfectly clear
to the mind of every sensible man who has examined this bill, that the bill as it stands does
not carry out the manifest intention of the House of Representatives when they passed it, and
that the proviso, limiting the power of the secretary over the legal tender currency, does
not accomplish the purpose which they designed, and without which I know the bill never could
have passed the House of Representatives."

Mr. Fessenden:  "If the House of Representatives did not understand what they were doing when
they passed this bill, it arises from the fact that they did not give the rein to their imagination,
as the honorable Senator from Ohio seems to have done to his, and take it for granted that
the Secretary of the Treasury had a purpose to accomplish, and that he would not hesitate to
take any means in his power to accomplish it, improperly against the manifest will of Congress,
against the interests of the country, and against his own interests as Secretary of the Treasury."

I replied:

"I appeal to the Senator whether that is a fair statement of my argument?"

Mr. Fessenden:  "That is the way precisely that I understand it."

I said:

"That is precisely as no gentleman could have understood me.  I never said that the secretary
improperly would do so and so by any means.  It is one of the honorable Senator's modes of
stating propositions."

Mr. Fessenden:  "I certainly did not mean to say that the honorable Senator supposed he designed
to do so, but such seems to be the result of his argument--that the Secretary of the Treasury
having the power, as he says, there is danger that he might abuse it in that precise way; else
his argument amounts to nothing at all as against the bill.  I certainly acquit my friend of
any sort of desire or intention to throw any imputation on the Secretary of the Treasury. 
That he did not mean to do. . . ."

I said:

"I do not think it wise to confer on the Secretary of the Treasury the power to meet the indebtedness
not accruing for a year, or two, or three years.  I do not think it is necessary, in our present
financial condition, to authorize him to go into market now and sell bonds at current market
rates with a view to pay debts that do not mature for a year or two.  I have no doubt before
the five- twenty loans are due we shall retire every dollar of them at four or five per cent.
interest.  No one who heeds the rapid developments of new sources of wealth in this country,
the enormous yield of gold now, the renewal of industry in the south, the enormous yield of
cotton, the growing wealth of this country, and all the favorable prospects that are before
us, doubts the ability of this government before this debt matures to reduce it to four or
five per cent. interest. . . .

"The Secretary of the Treasury may sell bonds at any rate to meet debts as they accrue, but
that is not the purpose of this bill."

Mr. Fessenden:  "That is all the purpose there is in it."

I said:

"Then there is no necessity for it."

Mr. Fessenden:  "Yes, there is.  I differ from you."

I continued:

"We have here the tables before us.  The honorable Senator and I know when this debt matures. . . .

"That is the power now given, and he will use the power.  He may think it to his interest to
retire the whole of the seven-thirties or the ten-forties; but is it wise for us to give him
that power now, at the heel of the war and before things have settled down? I do not think it is.

"I repeat, I do not wish to call in question the integrity of the Secretary of the Treasury.
The Senator interjects by saying we must look ahead.  I have done so.  The difference between
us is that I anticipate that the future of this country will be hopeful, buoyant, joyous. 
We shall not have to beg money of foreign nations, or even of our own people, within two or
three years.  Our national debt will be eagerly sought for, I have no doubt.  I take a hopeful
view of the future.  I do not wish now to cripple the industry of the country by adopting the
policy of the Secretary of the Treasury, as he calls it, by reducing the currency, by crippling
the operations of the government, when I think that under any probability of affairs in the
future, all this debt will take care of itself.  I believe that if the Secretary of the Treasury
would do nothing in the world except simply sit in his chair, meet the accruing indebtedness,
and issue his treasury warrants, this debt will take care of itself, and will fund itself at
four or five per cent. before very long.  All that I object to in this bill is the power it
gives the Secretary of the Treasury over the currency, to affect the currency of the country
now and to anticipate debts that are not yet due. . . .

"That is what I am afraid of, his interference to contract the currency.  The honorable Senator
from Maine, however, would seem to think that I impute to him a wrong motive, and therefore
I corrected him when he made the remark that I seemed to suppose the secretary was doing this
improperly.  I think not.  The Secretary of the Treasury informed us that he desired to reduce
the currency, and he has been doing it as far as he could.  He has been accumulating large
balances.  He was opposed to the proviso which has been inserted in this bill, and yielded
to it only with reluctance. That is admitted on all hands, and he is not precluded either in
honor or propriety from carrying out his policy if you gave him the power to do it."

This bill became a law on the 12th of April, 1866.  President Johnson relied entirely upon
McCulloch, and had no opinions upon financial topics.

Now, nearly thirty years after the passage of this act, it is manifest that it was far the
most injurious and expensive financial measure ever enacted by Congress.  It not only compelled
the United States to pay the large war rates of interest for many years, but postponed specie
payments until 1879.  It added fully $300,000,000 of interest that might have been saved by
the earlier refunding of outstanding bonds into bonds bearing four or five per cent. interest.
Mr. Fessenden, then chairman of the committee on finance, committed a grave error in hastily
supporting the bill, an error which I believe he greatly regretted and which, in connection
with his failing health, no doubt led him to resign his position as chairman of that committee.
Although our debate was rather sharp, it did not disturb our friendly relations.  With McCulloch
in the treasury department, nothing could be done.

If the funding clauses of this act had been limited to the conversion of compound interest
notes, treasury notes bearing interest, certificates of indebtedness, and temporary loans into
bonds redeemable at the pleasure of the United States after a brief time, bearing not exceeding
five per cent. interest, retaining in circulation during this process of refunding all the
then outstanding United States notes, the result would have been greatly beneficial to the
United States, but this was not the chief object of the Secretary of the Treasury.  His primary
object was to convert United States notes into interest-bearing bonds, and thus force the immediate
resumption of specie payments or the substitution of national bank notes for United States
notes.  The result of his refunding was largely to increase the amount of six per cent. bonds,
the most burdensome form of security then outstanding.  In October, 1865, the amount of six
per cent. bonds was $920,000,000; on the 1st of July, 1868, the six per cent. bonds outstanding
were $1,557,844,600.  The increase of these bonds under the operation of this law was thus
over $637,000,000.

The result of this policy of contraction was not only to increase the burden of the public
debt, but it created serious derangement of the business of the country.  It excited a strong
popular opposition to the measures adopted.

The Greenback party, as it was called, grew out of this policy of contraction, and for a time
threatened to carry the election of a majority of the Members of Congress.  It contended practically
for an unlimited issue of legal tender United States notes, and the payment of all bonds and
securities in United States notes.  This, however, did not disturb Secretary McCulloch.  In
his annual report of December 3, 1866, he again urged the policy of a further reduction of
United States notes.  He was not satisfied with the reduction already provided for, and recommended
that the reduction should be increased from $4,000,000 a month, as contemplated by the act
of April 12, 1866, to $6,000,000 a month for the fiscal year, and to $10,000,000 a month thereafter.
He said:

"The policy of contracting the circulation of the government notes should be definitely and
unchangeably established, and the process should go on just as rapidly as possible without
producing a financial crisis or seriously embarrassing those branches of industry and trade
upon which our revenues are dependent.  That the policy indicated is the true and safe one,
the secretary is thoroughly convinced.  If it shall not be speedily adopted and rigidly, but
judiciously, enforced, severe financial troubles are in store for us."

He insisted that the circulation of the country should be further reduced, not by compelling
the national banks to retire their notes, but by the withdrawal of United States notes.  When
reminded of the great saving of interest in the issue of $400,000,000 United States notes,
he answered:

"Considerations of this nature are more than counterbalanced by the discredit which attaches
to the government by failing to pay its notes according to their tenor, by the bad influence
of this involuntary discredit upon the public morals, and the wide departure, which a continued
issue of legal tender notes involves, from the past usages, if not from the teachings of the
constitution itself."

He said:

"The government cannot exercise powers not conferred by its organic law or necessary for its
own preservation, nor dishonor its own engagements when able to meet them, without either shocking
or demoralizing the sentiment of the people; and the fact that the indefinite continuance of
the circulation of an inconvertible but still legal tender currency is so generally advocated
indicates how far we have wandered from old landmarks both in finance and in ethics."

The growing opposition of the people at large to the contraction of the currency seemed to
have no effect upon his mind.

He again recurs to the same subject in his annual report to Congress, in December, 1867.  He
urged that the acts authorizing legal tender notes be repealed, and that the work of retiring
the notes which had been issued under them should be commenced without delay, and carefully
and persistently continued until all were retired.

This policy of contraction, honestly entertained and persistently urged by Secretary McCulloch
in spite of growing stringency, led Congress, by the act of February 4, 1868, to suspend indefinitely
the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury to make any reduction of the currency by retiring
or canceling United States notes.

Who can doubt that if he had availed himself of the power given him to refund the interest-bearing
notes and certificates of the United States into bonds bearing a low rate of interest, leaving
the United States notes bearing no interest to circulate as money, he would have saved the
government hundreds of millions of dollars? If irredeemable notes were a national dishonor,
why did he not urge their redemption in coin at some fixed period and then reissue them, and
maintain their redemption by a reserve in coin?

The act of February 25, 1862, under which the original United States notes were issued, provided
that:

"Such United States notes shall be received the same as coin, at their par value, in payment
for any loans that may be hereafter sold or negotiated by the Secretary of the Treasury, and
may be reissued from time to time as the exigencies of the public interest shall require."

This provision would have maintained the parity of United States notes at par with bonds, but
under the pressure of war it was deemed best by Congress, upon the recommendation of Secretary
Chase, to take from the holder of United States notes the right to present them in payment
for bonds after the first day of July, 1863.  If this privilege, conferred originally upon
United States notes, had been renewed in 1866, with the right of reissue, bonds and notes would
together have advanced to par in coin.  But this is what the contractionists especially opposed.
They demanded the cancellation of the notes when presented, a contraction of the currency when
offering our bonds.  It is easy now to perceive that a conservative use of United States notes,
convertible into four per cent. bonds, would have steadily advanced both notes and bonds to
par in coin. But the equally erroneous opposing opinions of contractionists and expansionists
delayed for many years the coming of coin resumption upon a fixed quantity of United States notes.

Among the acts of this Congress of chief importance is the act approved July 13, 1866, to reduce
taxes and provide internal revenue. The passage of such an act required much labor in both
Houses, but especially so in the House of Representatives, where tax bills must originate.
It was a compromise measure, and, unlike previous acts, did not reach out for new objects of
taxation, but selected such articles as could bear it best, and on some of these the tax was
increased.  A great number of articles that enter into the common consumption of the people
and are classed as necessities of life were relieved from taxation.  The general purpose of
the bill was in time to concentrate internal taxes on such articles as spirits, tobacco and
beer.  The tax on incomes was continued but limited to the 30th of June, 1870.  I have already
stated the marked development of internal taxation, and this measure was one of the most important
in the series to produce great revenue at the least cost, and of the lightest burden to the
taxpayer.

Soon after the passage of the act, approved April 12, 1866, to contract the currency, I introduced
a bill, "To reduce the rate of interest on the national debt and for funding the same."  In
view of the passage of that act I did not expect that a funding bill would meet with success,
but considered it my duty to present one, and on the 22nd of May, 1866, made a speech in support
of it.  The bill provided for the voluntary exchange of any of the outstanding obligations
of the United States for a bond running thirty years, but redeemable at the pleasure of the
United States after ten years from date, bearing interest at the rate of five per cent., payable
annually.  On reading that speech now I find that, though I was much more confident than others
of converting our maturing securities into five per cent. bonds, the general opinion then prevailing,
and acted upon by the Secretary of the Treasury, was to issue six per cent. bonds as already
stated.  I soon found that it was idle to press the funding bill upon Congress, when it was
so much occupied with reconstruction and with Andrew Johnson.  The refunding and many other
measures had to be postponed until a new administration came into power.  Congress had unfortunately
authorized the issue of six per cent. bonds for accruing liabilities, and thus postponed refunding
at a lower rate of interest.

The long and exciting session of Congress that ended on the 28th day of July, 1866, left me
in feeble strength and much discouraged with the state of affairs.  I had arranged with General
Sherman to accompany him in an official inspection of army posts on the western plains, but
did not feel at liberty to leave Washington until Congress adjourned.  The letter I wrote him
on the 8th of July expresses my feelings as to the political situation at that time:

  "United States Senate Chamber,}
  "Washington, July 8, 1866.    }
"Dear Brother:--It is now wise for you to avoid all expressions of
political opinion.  Congress and the President are now drifting
from each other into open warfare.  Congress is not weak in what
it has done, but in what it has failed to do.  It has adopted no
unwise or extreme measures.  The civil rights bill and constitutional
amendments can be defended as reasonable, moderate, and in harmony
with Johnson's old position and yours.  As Congress has thus far
failed to provide measures to allow legal Senators and Representatives
to take their seats, it has failed in a plain duty.  This is its
weakness, but even in this it will have the sympathy of the most
of the soldiers, and the people who are not too eager to secure
rebel political power.  As to the President, he is becoming Tylerized.
He was elected by the Union party for his openly expressed radical
sentiments, and now he seeks to rend to pieces this party.  There
is a sentiment among the people that this is dishonor.  It looks
so to me.  What Johnson is, is from and by the Union party.  He
now deserts it and betrays it.  He may varnish it up, but, after
all, he must admit that he disappoints the reasonable expectations
of those who intrusted him with power.  He may, by a coalition with
copperheads and rebels, succeed, but the simple fact that nine-
tenths of them who voted for him do not agree with him, and that
he only controls the other tenth by power intrusted to him by the
Union party, will damn him forever.  Besides, he is insincere; he
has deceived and misled his best friends.  I know he led many to
believe he would agree to the civil rights bill, and nearly all
who conversed with him until within a few days believed he would
acquiesce in the amendments, and even aid in securing their adoption.
I almost fear he contemplates civil war.  Under those circumstances
you, Grant and Thomas ought to be clear of political complications.
As for myself, I intend to stick to finance, but wherever I can I
will moderate the actions of the Union party, and favor conciliation
and restoration.

  "Affectionately yours,
  "John Sherman."

After the adjournment I proceeded to St. Louis, and with General Sherman and two staff officers,
went by rail to Omaha.  This handsome city had made great progress since my former visit. 
We then went by the Central Pacific railroad to Fort Kearney, as far as the rails were then
laid.  There our little party started through the Indian Territory, riding in light wagons
with canvas covers, each drawn by two good army mules, escorted by a squad of mounted soldiers.
We traveled about thirty miles a day, camping at night, sleeping in our wagons, turned into
ambulances, the soldiers under shelter tents on blankets and the horses parked near by.  The
camp was guarded by sentinels at night, and the troopers lay with their guns close at hand.
Almost every day we met Indians, but none that appeared to be hostile.  In this way we traveled
to Fort Laramie. The country traversed was an unbroken wilderness, in a state of nature, but
singularly beautiful as a landscape.  It was an open prairie, traversed by what was called
the North Platte River, with scarcely water enough in it to be called a creek, with rolling
hills on either side, and above, a clear sky, and air pure and bracing.  It was the first time
I had been so far out on the plains, and I enjoyed it beyond expression.  I was soon able to
eat my full share of the plain fare of bread and meat, and wanted more.

After many days we reached Fort Laramie, then an important post far out beyond the frontier.
We remained but a few days, and then, following south along the foot hills, we crossed into
the Laramie plains to Fort Sanders.  This was the last post to the west in General Sherman's
command.  From thence we followed the course of the Cache la Poudre.  On the way we camped
near a station of the Overland Stage Company, for change of horses and for meals, in a charming
and picturesque region.  The keeper of the station soon called and inquired for me, and I found
that he was a former resident of Mansfield, who married the daughter of an old friend.  He
invited our party to his house, and there I met his wife, who, in this region without any neighbors
or habitations near, seemed to be perfectly happy and fearless, though often disturbed by threatened
Indian outbreaks.  We were handsomely entertained.  It was a great relief to sleep one night
in a comfortable bed, after sleeping for many nights with two in a narrow wagon.  We then proceeded
to Greeley, where we found a small settlement of farmers.  From thence to Denver, we found
a few cabins scattered over a vast open plain stretching as far as the eye could reach to the
east, with the mountains on the west rising in grandeur and apparently presenting an insurmountable
barrier.  I have seen many landscapes since that were more bold and striking, but this combination
of great mountains and vast plains, side by side, made an impression on my mind as lasting
as any natural landscape I have seen.

At Denver, General Sherman and I were handsomely entertained by the citizens, many of whom
General Sherman knew as soldiers under his command during the war, and some of whom I knew
as former residents of Ohio.  They were enthusiastic in their praise of Colorado.  It seemed
to me the air was charged with a superabundance of ozone, for everyone was so hopeful of the
future of Denver, that even the want of rain did not discourage them and some of them tried
to convince me that irrigation from the mountains was better than showers from the sky.  Denver
was then a town of less than 5,000 inhabitants and now contains more than 110,000.  Colorado
had less than 50,000 inhabitants in 1870, and in 1890 it had 412,198, an increase of nearly
ten fold in twenty years.  But this marvelous growth does not spring from the invigorating
air and flowing springs of Colorado, but from the precious metals stored in untold quantities
in her mountains.  From Denver General Sherman had to continue his inspection to the southern
posts, and I was called home to take part in the pending canvass.  I started in a coach peculiar
to the country, with three or four passengers, over a distance of about four hundred miles
to Fort Riley, in Kansas.  We had heard of many Indian forays on the line we were to travel
over and there was some danger, but it was the only way to get home.  Each of the passengers,
I among the number, had a good Winchester rifle, with plenty of ammunition.  The coach was
a crude rattle-trap, noisy and rough, but strong and well adapted to the journey.  It was drawn
by four horses of the country, small but wiry.  We had long reaches between changes.  The stations
for meals had means of defense, and the food set before us was substantial, mainly buffalo
beef, chickens and bread.  A good appetite (always a sure thing on the plains) was the best
sauce for a substantial meal, and all the meals were dinners with no change of courses.  We
saw on the way many evidences of Indian depredations, one of which was quite recent, and two
or three settlers had been killed.  We met no Indians on the way, but we did meet myriads of
buffaloes, scattered in vast herds to the north and south of us as far as the eye could reach.
It is sad to reflect that all these animals have been exterminated, mainly in wanton sport
by hunters who did not need their flesh for food or their hides for leather or robes.  This
destruction of buffaloes opened the way for herds of domestic cattle, which perhaps in equal
numbers now feed upon the native grass of the prairies.

In a recent visit to western Nebraska and South Dakota, I saw these cattle in great numbers
in good condition, cheaply cared for and sold for four cents a pound on the hoof.  The owners
of these cattle purchased land from settlers who had acquired title under the homestead or
pre-emption laws, as suitable sites for ranches, including a permanent lake or pond for each,
an indispensable requisite for a ranch.  This being secured, they built houses to live in and
sheds for the protection of their cattle in winter, and thus obtained practical possession,
without cost or taxes, of all the government land needed for their ranges.  Sad experience
has convinced settlers in all the vast rainless region of the west, that they cannot produce
grain with any certainty of harvesting a crop, and thousands who have made the experiment in
western Kansas and Nebraska and in eastern Colorado and Wyoming have recently abandoned their
improvements and their claims.  It seems now that this part of our country must be given up
to the herders of cattle. The Indians and buffaloes have disappeared and the "cowboys" and
domestic cattle and horses have taken their place, to give way, no doubt, in time, to the farmer,
when the water will be drawn from the earth by artesian wells, and life and vitality will thus
be given to a soil as rich as the Kansas valley.

We reached the end of our stage ride at Fort Riley, and were glad to enter into the cars of
the Kansas Pacific railroad, though they were as dirty and filthy as cars could well be.  All
this has been changed.  Now the ride over the plains from Kansas City to Denver can be made,
in a comparatively few hours, in comfort and safety.

I returned to Ohio to take my usual part in the canvass in the fall of 1866, and returned to
Washington in time for the meeting of Congress on the first Monday in December.

Prior to 1862 but little attention was given by Congress to the greatest and most important
industry of mankind, that of agriculture. This is especially true of the United States, where
the majority of its inhabitants are engaged in farming.  Agriculture has furnished the great
body of our exports, yet this employment had no representative in any of the departments except
a clerk in the Patent Office. The privileges granted by that bureau to inventors had no relation
to work on the farm, though farming was greatly aided by invention of farm implements during
the period of the war, when a million of men were drawn from their occupations into the army.
This anomaly led to the passage, on the 15th of May, 1862, of the act to establish the department
of agriculture.  Though called a department its chief officer was a commissioner of agriculture,
who was not for many years a member of the cabinet.  The first commissioner, Isaac Newton,
appointed by Lincoln, was a peculiar character, a Quaker of Philadelphia, a gardener rather
than a farmer, but he was an earnest and active officer.  The appropriations for his department
were very small, but enabled him to distribute valuable seeds and cuttings, which were in great
demand and of real service to farmers. I early took an active part in promoting his efforts
and especially in producing him appropriations and land where he could test his experiments.
He applied for authority to use that portion of Reservation No. 2 between 12th and 14th streets
of the mall in Washington, then an unsightly waste without tree or shrub, but he was notified
that the use of it was essentially necessary to the war department as a cattle yard.  When
the war was over Congress appropriated it for the use of his department.  He took possession
of it about the middle of April, 1865, and, though the ground was an unbroken soil of tenacious
clay, he fertilized and pulverized a part of it and planted a great variety of seeds for propagation,
and covered the remaining portions of it with grass and cereals. His reports increased in interest
and were in great demand.  His office work was done in inconvenient parts of the Patent Office,
and the necessity of better accommodations was constantly pressed upon Members of Congress.
I took an active interest in the subject, and offered an amendment to the civil appropriation
bill to appropriate $100,000 for a suitable building for the department of agriculture on the
reservation mentioned.  There was a disposition in the Senate to ridicule Newton and his seeds,
and Mr. Fessenden opposed the appropriation as one for an object not within the constitutional
power of Congress.  The amendment, however, was adopted on the 28th day of February, 1867.
Newton died on the 19th of June of that year, but on the 22nd of August, John W. Stokes, as
acting commissioner, entered into a contract for the erection of the building, and Horace Capron,
as commissioner, completed the work within the limits of his appropriation, a rare result in
the construction of a public building.  The building is admirably adapted for the purposes
designed.  The unsightly reservation has been converted by Mr. Capron and his successors in
office into one of the most beautiful parks in Washington.  The department of agriculture is
now represented in the cabinet, and in practical usefulness to the country is equal to any
of the departments.

During the last session of the 39th Congress the relations between President Johnson and Congress
became such that it was deemed advisable to provide by law for a session of the new Congress
on the 4th of March, 1867, that being the commencement of the term for which the Members were
elected.

The law, in my opinion, ought to be a permanent one, so that the will of the people, as evidenced
by the elections, may be promptly responded to.  But such was not the purpose of this act.
The reason was that, under the claim of authority made by the President, there was a fear that
he might recognize the states in insurrection before they had complied with the conditions
prescribed by law for reconstruction.

In pursuance of this law the 40th Congress met on the day named.

I took the oath as Senator, my colleague, Benjamin F. Wade, president pro tem. of the Senate,
administering it.  I became chairman of the committee on finance by the voluntary retirement
of Mr. Fessenden. I knew this had been his purpose during the session just closed. He complained
of his health, and that the confinement and labor of the position he held added to his infirmity.
At the same time it was agreed that the duties of the committee should be divided by referring
all appropriations to a committee on appropriations, and I was to choose between the two committees.
The House of Representatives had already divided the labors of the committee of ways and means,
a corresponding committee to that on finance, among several committees, and the experiment
had proved a success.  I preferred the committee on finance, and remained its chairman until
I became Secretary of the Treasury.  Mr. Fessenden took the easy and pleasant position of chairman
of the committee on public buildings and grounds, and held that position until he died in September,
1869.  I have already expressed my opinion of his remarkable ability as a debater and as a
statesman of broad and conservative views.  His only fault was a hasty temper too often displayed,
but as often regretted by him.

Congress adjourned on the 30th of March, to meet again on the 3rd of July.  The Senate was
called to a special session by proclamation of the President on the 1st day of April, 1867.
It remained in session until the 20th of April and then adjourned sine die.

I did not remain until the close of the session, but about the 10th of April sailed from New
York for Europe in the steamer "City of Antwerp."  I went for needed rest, a change of air
and scene, and had in view, as one of the attractions of the voyage, a visit to the exposition
at Paris in that year.  My associates on the ocean were Colonel Morrow, United States Army,
and John A. Kasson, Member of Congress from Iowa, and we remained together until I left London.

I had no plan, route or business, except to go where I drifted with such companions as I met.
The only limitation as to time was the duty of returning to meet the adjourned session of the
Senate in July.  I have no memoranda in respect to the voyage and preserved no letters about
it.  Still, the principal scenes and events are impressed on my mind and I will narrate them
as I now recall them.

The passage on the ocean was a favorable one.  We had some rain but no winds that disturbed
my digestion.  But few on the vessel were seasick, and these mainly so from imagination.  The
captain, whose name I do not recall, was a jolly Englishman, but a careful, prudent and intelligent
officer.  I sat by his side at his table. After leaving port we soon took our places at table
for our first meal on board.  He inquired of me if I was a good sailor.  I told him I would
be as regular in my attendance at meals as he.  He laughed and said he would like to wager
some wine on that.  I cheerfully accepted his bet, and, true to my promise, I did not miss
a meal during the voyage, while he three or four times remained at his post on deck when the
air was filled with fog or the waves were high.  He paid the bet near the end of the voyage,
and a number of his passengers, including Morrow and Kasson, shared in the treat.

I can imagine no life more pleasing than a tranquil, but not too tranquil, sea, with a good
ship well manned, with companions you like, but not too many.  The quiet and rest, the view
of the ocean, the sense of solitude, the possibility of danger, all these broken a little by
a quiet game of whist or an interesting book--this I call happiness.  All these I remember
to have enjoyed on this, my fifth trip on the ocean.

In due time we arrived at Queenstown in Ireland.  It was about the time a party of Irishmen,
in some town in England rescued some of their countrymen from a van in charge of English constables,
one or more of whom were killed or wounded.  Morrow, Kasson and I concluded we would spend
a few days in "Ould Ireland."  Morrow and Kasson believed they were of Irish descent, though
remotely so as their ancestors "fought in the Revolution."  We remained in and about Cork for
two or three days.  We visited and kissed the Blarney Stone, saw the Lakes of Killarney, and
drove or walked about the interesting environs of Cork and Queenstown.  We sought no acquaintance
with anyone.

We were all about the age of forty, physically sound, and both Morrow and Kasson had the military
air and step of soldiers.  We soon became conscious that we were under surveillance.  One day
an officer called at our lodgings and frankly told us that there was so much excitement about
Fenian disturbances in England, and such political ferment in Ireland, that an examination
of the baggage of passengers was required and he wished to examine ours.  I told him who we
were, and introduced him to Morrow and Kasson, and offered my trunk for inspection.  They did
the same, Kasson producing also a small pistol from his valise.  The officer had heard of that
pistol.  Kasson had fired it at the birds hovering about the vessel. This had been reported
to the police.  The officer took the pistol and it was returned to Kasson some days after at
Dublin.  Morrow ridiculed the pistol and told the officer that Kasson could not hit or hurt
him at ten paces away, but the officer was only half satisfied.  We soon after went to Dublin,
but we felt that we were under suspicion.  All Americans were then suspected of sympathizing
with the Irish.  We told our consul at Dublin of our adventures at Cork, and he said we were
lucky in not being arrested.  We went to a steeple chase a few miles from Dublin, where gentlemen
rode their own horses over a long and difficult route, leaping barriers and crossing streams.
We enjoyed the scene very much and mingled freely in the great crowd, but always feeling that
we were watched.  The next day we started to cross the channel to Holyhead.

We took the steamer at Dublin Bay and found aboard a large company of well-dressed passengers,
such as we would find on a summer excursion from New York.  Morrow, who was a handsome man
of pleasing manners and address, said he could pick out Americans from the crowd.  I doubted
it.  He said:  "There is an American," pointing out a large, well-built man, who seemed to
be known by the passengers around him.  I said he was an Englishman.  Morrow stepped up to
him and politely said that he had a wager with a friend that he was an American.  "Not by a
d----d sight," replied the Englishman. Morrow apologized for the intrusion, but the gentleman
changed his tone and said that his abrupt answer was caused by a letter he had lately received
from a nephew of his whom he had sent to America to make his fortune.  His nephew had written
him now that the rebels were put down, the next thing to do would be to put down "old England."
Morrow said there was too much of that kind of gasconade in America, and that after our desperate
struggle at home we would not be likely to engage in one with England.

We arrived safely in London.  In my first visit in 1859, with my wife, we were sight-seers.
Now I sought to form acquaintance with men whose names were household words in all parts of
the United States.  By the courtesy of our consul general at Liverpool, Thomas H. Dudley, I
met John Bright, Disraeli, and many others less conspicuous in public life.  I have already
mentioned my breakfast with Gladstone during this visit.  Mr. Dudley, then in London, invited
Mr. Bright to a dinner as his principal guest.  Of all the men I met in London, Mr. Bright
impressed me most favorably.  Finely formed physically, he was also mentally strong.  He was
frank and free in his talk and had none of the hesitation or reserve common with Englishmen.
He was familiar with our war and had no timidity in the expression of his sympathy for the
Union cause.  If we ever erect a monument to an Englishman, it should be to John Bright. I
heard Disraeli speak in the House of Commons and was introduced to him at a reception at Lord
Stanley's.  In the ten days I spent in London I saw as much of social life as could be crowded
into that time.  Charles Francis Adams was then United States minister at London, and I am
indebted to him for many acts of kindness. When we were Members of the House of Representatives
together he had the reputation of being cold and reserved and he was not popular with his fellow
Members, but in London he was distinguished for his hospitality to Americans.  He certainly
was very kind to me, entertaining me at dinner and taking pains to introduce me to many peers
and members whose names were familiar to me.  While receptions are very common in London during
the session, the Englishman prefers dinners as a mode of entertainment.  It is then he really
enjoys himself and gives pleasure to his guests.  The sessions of parliament, however, interfere
greatly with dinners.  The great debates occur during dining hours, so that, as Mr. Adams informed
me, it was difficult to arrange a dinner that would not be broken up somewhat by an unexpected
debate, or a division in the House of Commons. The precedence of rank had to be carefully observed.
The unsocial habit of not introducing guests to each other tended to restrain conversation
and make the dinner dull and heavy.  Still the forms and usages in social life in London are
much like those in Washington. But here the ordinary sessions of each House of Congress terminate
before six o'clock, leaving the evening hours for recreation.

The presidential mansion is the natural resort of all who visit Washington.  The doors are
always open to visitors at stated hours, and the President is easy of access to all who call
at such hours. Formerly presidential receptions were open to all comers, and the result was
a motley crowd, who formed in line and shook hands with the President, bowed to the attending
ladies, passed into the great east room and gradually dispersed.  In late years these receptions
have become less frequent, and in their place we have had diplomatic, military and navy, and
congressional receptions, for which invitations are issued.  During the usual period before
Lent card receptions are given by the cabinet, by many Senators and Members, and by citizens,
for which invitations are issued.  I know of no place where the entrance into society is so
open and free as in Washington.

From London I went, by way of Dieppe and Rouen, to Paris, where my first call was on General
Dix and his family.  Next I visited the exposition, and wandered through and about and around
it.  I have attended many exhibitions, but never one before or since that combined such magnitude
and completeness in size, form and location, and such simplicity in arrangement and details,
as the Paris Exposition of 1867.  I spent ten days in this inspection, and in walking and driving
around Paris and its environs.  Through the kindness of General Dix, then envoy extraordinary
and minister plenipotentiary, I received invitations to many meetings and receptions given
by Mayor Haussman and other officers of the French government to visitors from abroad connected
with the exposition. I accepted some of them, but purposely postponed this social part of my
visit until I returned from Berlin.

From Paris I went to Antwerp via Brussels.  At this latter place I met Doctor John Wilson,
then United States consul at Antwerp. He was an old friend at Washington, where he served during
the greater part of the war as an army surgeon.  He was a man of remarkable intelligence, familiar
with nearly every part of Europe, and especially with France, Belgium and Prussia.  He readily
acquiesced in my invitation to accompany me to Berlin.  On the invitation of Henry S. Sanford,
our minister to Brussels, I returned to that city, and met at dinner the principal officers
of Belgium, such as we designate cabinet ministers.  I drove with Mr. Sanford to Waterloo and
other famous historic places in and about that beautiful city.

From Brussels we went to the Hague, where General Hugh Ewing, a brother-in-law of General Sherman,
was United States minister. After a brief stay in Holland, General Ewing, Doctor Wilson and
myself went to Berlin.  Prussia was then a kingdom of rising power, and Berlin was a growing
city, but not at all the Berlin of to-day. Bismarck was recognized as a great statesman and,
although far less prominent than he afterwards became, he was the one man in Germany whom I
desired to see or know.  Mr. Joseph A. Wright, late United States minister at Berlin, had recently
died, and his son, John C. Wright, who was in charge of the legation, had no difficulty in
securing me an audience with Bismarck, accompanying me to the official residence, where I was
introduced to him.  Bismarck spoke English with a German accent, but was easily understood.
When I spoke of recent events in Europe he would turn the conversation to the United States,
asking me many questions about the war and the principal generals in the opposing armies. 
He was in thorough sympathy with the Union cause, and emphatically said that every man in Prussia,
from the king to his humblest subject, was on the side of the Union, and opposed to the Rebellion.
What a pity, he said, it would have been if so great a country as the United States had been
disrupted on account of slavery.  I mentioned my visit to the international fair at Paris and
my intention to return, and he said he would be there.

This interview, which lasted, perhaps, forty minutes, was as informal and frank as the usual
conversation of friends.  Bismarck was then in full health and strength, about fifty years
old, more than six feet high, and a fine specimen of vigorous manhood in its prime.

I found the same feeling for the United States expressed by a popular meeting in the great
exposition hall in Berlin.  Our little party was escorted to this place on Sunday afternoon
by Mr. Kreismann, our consul at Berlin.  As we entered the hall, Mr. Kreismann advanced to
the orchestra, composed of several military bands, and said something to the leader.  When
we took our seats at one of the numerous tables he told me to pay attention after the first
item of the second part of the programme before me, and I would hear something that would please
me.  At the time stated, a young man advanced to the front of the stage, with a violin in his
hand, and played exquisitely the air "Yankee Doodle Is the Tune," and soon after the entire
band joined in, filling the great hall with American music.  The intelligent German audience,
many of whom knew the national airs of all countries, realized at once that this addition to
the programme was a compliment to the Americans.  They soon located our little party and then
rose, and fully two thousand persons, men, women and children, waved their handkerchiefs and
shouted for America.

The feeling in favor of the United States was then strong in all parts of Europe, except in
France and England.  In these countries it was somewhat divided--in France by the failure of
Maximilian, and in England by the rivalry of trade, and sympathy with the south. Generally,
in referring in Europe to the people of the United States, the people speak of us as Americans,
while those of other parts of America are Canadians, Mexicans, etc.

After a pleasant week in Berlin I went by way of Frankfort, Wiesbaden and Cologne to Paris.
The exposition was then in full operation. It may be that greater numbers attended the recent
exposition at Chicago, but, great as was its success, I think, for symmetry, for plans of buildings,
and arrangement of exhibits, the fair at Paris was better than that at Chicago.  The French
people are well adapted for such exhibits.  The city of Paris is itself a good show.  Its people
almost live out of doors six months of the year.  They are quick, mercurial, tasteful and economical.
A Frenchman will live well on one-half of what is consumed or wasted by an American.  I do
not propose to describe the wonderful collection of the productions of nature or the works
of men, but I wish to convey some idea of life in Paris during the thirty days I spent in it.

Louis Napoleon Bonaparte was then Emperor of the French, and Haussman was mayor of the city
of Paris.  General Dix, as before stated, was United States minister plenipotentiary and envoy
extraordinary at the court of France.  Upon my arrival, I hired what in Paris is called an
apartment, but which includes several rooms, comprising together a comfortable residence. 
Many similar apartments may be in the same building, but with them you need have no communication,
and you are detached from them as fully as if each apartment was a separate house.  The concierge,
generally a woman, takes charge of your room, orders your breakfast if you require one, and
keeps the key of your apartment when you are absent.  It is a charming mode of living.  You
can dine or lunch when you will, and are master of your time and your apartment.  I employed
a neat, light carriage and one horse, with a driver who knew a smattering of several languages,
and found him trusty and faithful--all this at a cost that would disgust the ordinary hotel
proprietor in the United States, and especially the hack driver of any of our cities.  This,
in Paris, was the usual outfit of a gentleman.

General Dix advised me on whom and when and how I should make my calls.  My card in the usual
form announced that I was "Sénateur des États Unis d'Amérique."  A Parisian could not pronounce
my name. The best he could do was to call me "Monsieur le Sénateur."  With a few words of French
I acquired, and the imperfect knowledge of English possessed by most French people, I had no
difficulty in making my way in any company.  I received many invitations I could not accept.
I attended a reception at the Palais Royal, the residence of the mayor, dressed in the ordinary
garb for evening parties, a dress coat and trousers extending to the knees, and below black
silk stockings and pumps.  I felt very uncomfortable in this dress when I entered the reception
room, but, as I found every gentleman in the same dress, we become reconciled to it. Subsequently
I attended a reception at the Tuileries, at which I was presented by General Dix to the emperor
and empress.

One feature of this presentation I shall always remember.  The general company had been gathered
in the great hall.  The diplomatic representatives of many countries were formed in line according
to their rank, attended by the persons to be presented.  Soon a door was opened from an adjoining
room and the Emperor of the French, escorting, I think, the Empress of Russia, passed along
the line and saluted the ambassadors and ministers in their order, and the ladies and gentlemen
to be presented were introduced by name to the emperor.  General Dix presented Fernando Wood,
of New York, and myself.  Following the French emperor came the Emperor of Russia escorting
the Empress Eugenie of France, and the same mention of our names was made to her.  Following
them came kings, the Prince of Wales and others of like rank, each accompanied by distinguished
peers of his country.  Third or fourth in this order came the King of Prussia, Prince Bismarck,
and General Von Moltke.  When Bismarck passed he shook hands with Dix and recognized me with
a bow and a few words.  If the leaders in this pageant could have foreseen what happened three
years later--that King William would be an emperor, that Bonaparte would be his prisoner and
Eugenie a refugee from republican France--the order of the march would have been reversed.

Soon after this reception, I was invited by the emperor to attend, with General Dix and his
daughter, a dinner at the Tuileries.  Such an invitation is held to be in the nature of a command.
I accompanied them, and was agreeably surprised to find that the dinner was quite informal,
though more than forty sat at table.  When I entered the room one of the ladies in waiting
came to me and introduced me to a lady whom I was to escort to the table.  Presently she returned
and said:  "Oh, I understand monsieur does not speak French, and marquise does not speak English.
Will monsieur allow me to be a substitute?"  I agreed with great pleasure.  Both the guests
and the hosts were promptly on time.  I was introduced to the emperor and empress.  She was
very gracious to her guests, passing from one to another with a kindly word to all.  I noticed
her greeting to Miss Dix was very cordial.  The emperor engaged in a conversation with me that
continued until the dinner was announced,--fully ten minutes.  He asked many questions about
the war, and especially about General Sherman.  I answered his questions as I would to any
gentleman, but felt uneasy lest I was occupying time that he should bestow on others.  General
Dix was by my side, and encouraged the conversation.  When the dinner was announced each guest
knew his place from the card furnished him, and the party was seated without confusion.

I need not say that the young lady I escorted was a charming woman. I did not learn whether
she was married or not, but have always regarded her action in relieving me from a silent dinner
as the highest mark of politeness.  She was bright and attractive, and I certainly did and
said all I could to amuse her, so what I expected to be a dull dinner turned out to be a very
joyful one.

It is impossible for an American to visit Paris without enjoyment and instruction.  The people
of Paris are always polite, especially to Americans.  The debt of gratitude for the assistance
of France in our War of the Revolution is never forgotten by a true American, and Frenchmen
are always proud of their share in establishing the independence of America.  The two Bonapartes
alone did not share in this feeling.  The Americans are liberal visitors in Paris. They spend
their money freely, join heartily in festivities, and sympathize in the success and prosperity
of the French republic. If I was not an American I certainly would be a Frenchman.  I have
visited Paris three times, remaining in it more than a month at each visit, and always have
been received with civility and kindness. Though it is a great manufacturing city, chiefly
in articles of luxury requiring the highest skill, yet it is also a most beautiful city in
its location, its buildings, public and private, its museums and opera houses, its parks and
squares, its wide streets and avenues, and especially the intelligence of its people.  Science
and art have here reached their highest development.  We may copy all these, but it will require
a century to develop like progress in America.

I returned to England for a few days and then took the steamer "City of Paris" for New York,
where I arrived on the 13th of July. I took the cars for Washington and arrived ten days after
the session had commenced.

While I was in Paris a special international commission, composed of delegates from seventeen
nations, was sitting to consider, and, if possible, agree on a common unit of money for the
use of the civilized world.  Mr. Samuel B. Ruggles, a gentleman of the highest standing and
character, was the representative of the United States on this commission.  It should be remembered
that at this time the only currency in circulation in the United States was the legal tender
notes of the United States and the notes of national banks. Neither gold nor silver coin was
in circulation, both being at a premium in currency.  At this time silver bullion was at a
premium over gold bullion, the legal ratio being sixteen to one.  In other words, sixteen ounces
of silver were worth, in the open market, three to five cents more than one ounce of gold.
All parties in the United States were then looking forward to the time when United States notes
would advance in value to par with gold, the cheaper metal.

The question before the commission was how to secure a common coin that would be the measure
of value between all nations, and thus avoid the loss by exchange of the coins of one nation
for those of another.  Mr. Ruggles knew that I had studied this question, and therefore wrote
this letter:

  "Paris, May 17, 1867.
"My Dear Sir:--You are, of course, aware that there is a special
committee now in session, organized by the Imperial Commission of
France, in connection with the 'Paris Exposition,' composed of
delegates from many of the nations therein represented.  Its object,
among others, is to agree, if possible, on a common unit of money,
for the use of the civilized world.

"I perceive that the opinions of the committee are running strongly in favor of adopting, as
the unit, the existing French five-franc piece of gold.

"May I ask what, in your opinion, is the probability that the Congress of the United States,
at an early period, would agree to reduce the weight and value of our gold dollar, to correspond
with the present weight and value of the gold five-franc piece of France; and how far back
such a change would commend itself to your own judgment?

"I would also ask the privilege of submitting your answer to the consideration of the committee.

  "With high respect, faithfully your friend,
  "Samuel B. Ruggles,
  "U. S. Commissioner to the Paris Exposition and Member of the
     Committee.
"Hon. John Sherman,
  "Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Senate of the United
     States, etc., etc., etc., now in Paris."

To this letter I made the following reply:

  "Hotel Jardin des Tuileries, May 18, 1867.
"My Dear Sir:--Your note of yesterday, inquiring whether Congress
would probably, in future coinage, make our gold dollar conform in
value to the gold five-franc piece, has been received.

"There has been so little discussion in Congress upon the subject that I cannot base my opinion
upon anything said or done there.

"The subject has, however, excited the attention of several important commercial bodies in
the United States, and the time is now so favorable that I feel quite sure that Congress will
adopt any practical measure that will secure to the commercial world a uniform standard of
value and exchange.

"The only question will be, how can this be accomplished?

"The treaty of December 23, 1865, between France, Italy, Belgium, and Switzerland, and the
probable acquiescence in that treaty by Prussia, has laid the foundation for such a standard.
If Great Britain will reduce the value of her sovereign two pence, and the United States will
reduce the value of her dollar something over three cents, we then have a coinage in the franc,
dollar and sovereign easily computed, and which will readily pass in all countries; the dollar
as five francs and the sovereign as 25 francs.

"This will put an end to the loss and intricacies of exchange and discount.

"Our gold dollar is certainly as good a unit of value as the franc; and so the English think
of their pound sterling.  These coins are now exchangeable only at a considerable loss, and
this exchange is a profit only to brokers and bankers.  Surely each commercial nation should
be willing to yield a little to secure a gold coin of equal value, weight, and diameter, from
whatever mint it may have been issued.

"As the gold five-franc piece is now in use by over 60,000,000 of people of several different
nationalities, and is of convenient form and size, it may well be adopted by other nations
as the common standard of value, leaving to each nation to regulate the divisions of this unit
in silver coin or tokens.

"If this is done France will surely abandon the impossible effort of making two standards of
value.  Gold coins will answer all the purpose of European commerce.  A common gold standard
will regulate silver coinage, of which the United States will furnish the greater part, especially
for the Chinese trade.

"I have thought a good deal of how the object you propose may be most readily accomplished.
It is clear that the United States cannot become a party to the treaty referred to.  They could
not agree upon the silver standard; nor could we limit the amount of our coinage, as proposed
by the treaty.  The United States is so large in extent, is so sparsely populated, and the
price of labor is so much higher than in Europe, that we require more currency per capita.
We now produce the larger part of the gold and silver of the world, and cannot limit our coinage
except by the wants of our people and the demands of commerce.

"Congress alone can change the value of our coin.  I see no object in negotiating with other
powers on the subject.  As coin is not now in general circulation with us, we can readily fix
by law the size, weight, and measure of future issues.  It is not worth while to negotiate
about that which we can do without negotiation, and we do not wish to limit ourselves by treaty
restrictions.

"In England many persons of influence and different chambers of commerce are earnestly in favor
of the proposed change in their coinage.  The change is so slight with them that an enlightened
self-interest will soon induce them to make it, especially if we make the greater change in
our coinage.  We have some difficulty in adjusting existing contracts with the new dollar;
but as contracts are now based upon the fluctuating value of paper money, even the reduced
dollar in coin will be of more purchasable value than our currency.

"We can easily adjust the reduction with public creditors in the payment or conversion of their
securities, while private creditors might be authorized to recover upon the old standard. 
All these are matters of detail to which I hope the commission will direct their attention.

"And now, my dear sir, allow me to say in conclusion that I heartily sympathize with you and
the others in your efforts to secure the adoption of the metrical system of weights and measures.

"The tendency of the age is to break down all needless restrictions upon social and commercial
intercourse.  Nations are now as much akin to each other as provinces were of old.  Prejudices
disappear by contact.  People of different nations learn to respect each other as they find
that their differences are the effect of social and local custom, not founded upon good reasons.
I trust that the industrial commission will enable the world to compute the value of all productions
by the same standard, to measure by the same yard or meter, and weigh by the same scales.

"Such a result would be of greater value than the usual employments of diplomatists and statesmen.

  "I am very truly yours,
  "John Sherman."

As the result of its investigation the commission agreed, with entire unanimity, that the gold
five-franc piece should be adopted as the unit of value, and that the coins of all nations
represented should be based upon that unit or multiples thereof.  This would require a slight
change in the quantity of gold in the dollar of the United States, amounting to a reduction
of about three cents, a reduction in the pound sterling of England of about one penny, and
a slight reduction or increase in the gold coins of other countries.

Mr. Ruggles reported the proceedings and recommendation of the commission to the President,
and his report was referred to Congress.

A private letter to me from Mr. Ruggles, dated December 30, 1867, shows the nature of the opposition
to the measure proposed, being entirely from British opposition to a change in the pound sterling.
He wrote:

  "New York, December 30, 1867.
"My Dear Mr. Sherman:--You may have perceived, within the last
week, articles in the 'New York Evening Post,' the 'New York Times'
and the 'World,' on the subject of the proposed monetary unification;
the first denying its propriety, the second its practicability,
and the third underrating its importance.

"The articles are hastily and ignorantly and, in some respects, bitterly written.  My first
impulse was to briefly answer each of them in its respective newspaper.  On further reflection,
it seemed more decorous that, as a member of the 'conference,' I should first appear before
the Senate committee now in possession of all the papers, and there render any proper explanations,
and not obtrude myself as a combatant in the newspapers, prematurely and only partially defending
my official action.  If, however, you should think that the articles should be answered without
delay, I could readily cause it to be done, by other persons.

"I cannot but think that the dignity of the subject, formally presented as it now is, to our
national authorities, by a diplomatic assemblage representing nearly all the civilized nations
of the Christian world, entitles it to a full discussion before the Senate committee, to be
followed by a maturely considered report, fairly weighing and presenting to the country all
the merits and demerits, facilities and difficulties of the measure.

"I am just at the moment confined to my house by an 'influenza,' but if I can be of any service,
either before the committee or elsewhere, I shall hold myself subject to your official call,
for any duty, after the 7th or 8th of January, which you may indicate.

"You must have perceived that my report to the department of state, having in view the possibility
of European readers, abstained from some considerations which might properly be brought to
the notice of the committee of the American Senate.

"It is strange, indeed, to see American newspapers eagerly maintaining the inviolability of
the 'pound sterling,' when it has become entirely evident that the great monetary struggle
of the future must lie between the British pound and the American dollar.  In truth, this was
virtually admitted in the 'conference' by Mr. Graham, one of the British delegates, and master
of the royal mint.

  "With high regard, faithfully yours,
  "Samuel B. Ruggles.
"Hon. John Sherman,
  "Chairman Senate Finance Comittee, etc., etc., etc."

We were called upon to legislate upon the subject.  The French government promptly acquiesced
in the coin proposed.  Mr. Ruggles' report said that several governments had already assented
to it. The report was referred to the committee on finance of the Senate, who submitted a favorable
report with a bill to carry out the recommendations, and that report was published.  There
was no dissent from the plan except that Senator Morgan, of New York, thought it would interfere
with the profit of New York brokers in changing dollars into pounds.  As a matter of course,
it would have interfered with the exchanges of New York and London, the great money centers
of the world.  It would have interfered with bullion dealers who make profit in exchanging
coins; but the whole of it was for the benefit of each country.

No man can estimate the benefit it would have conferred upon our own people.  It was only defeated
by the refusal of Great Britain to assent to the change of her pound sterling by the reduction
of its value about one penny.  But pride in the existing coins, so strong in that country,
defeated the measure, although it had been assented to by her representatives in that monetary
congress; and so the thing ended.

It is easy now to perceive that if this international coin had been agreed to it would have
passed current everywhere, as it could rapidly be exchanged at sight without going through
the hands of brokers.  I do not believe that Mr. Morgan would have insisted on his opposition,
as the only ground of his objection was, it would have destroyed the business of the money
changers of New York. Even his resistance would have been ineffectual, as the committee and
the Senate were decidedly in favor of the bill and the opposition of New York brokers would
have added strength to the measure.

The greatest statesmen of Europe and America have sought for many years to unify the coinage
of nations, and to adopt common standards of weights and measures, so that commerce may be
freed from the restrictions now imposed upon it, but Great Britain has steadily opposed all
these enlightened measures, and thus far has been able to defeat them.

My report from the committee on finance, made to the Senate June 7, 1868, contains a full statement
of the acts of the monetary conference at Paris, and of the approval of its action by many
of the countries there represented, and of the support given to the plan in Great Britain by
many of her ablest statesmen and the great body of her commercial classes, but the party then
in power in parliament refused its sanction, and thus, as already stated, the measure failed.

It has been quite common, during recent discussion about silver, to attribute the alleged demonetization
of that metal to the action of the Paris monetary conference.  In 1867, when this conference
was in session, as already stated, sixteen ounces of silver were worth more than one ounce
of gold.  Fifteen and one-half ounces of silver were the legal equivalent of one ounce of gold
in all European countries.  No suggestion was made or entertained to disturb the circulation
of silver.  The only object sought was to secure some common coin by which other coins could
be easily measured.  As gold was the most valuable metal in smallest space, and the five-franc
gold piece of France was the best unit by which other coins could be measured, other gold coins
were to be multiples of the unit, so that five francs would be a dollar and five dollars would
be a pound.  The coins of other nations would be made to conform to multiples of this unit.

It was perfectly understood that, while silver was the chief coin in domestic exchanges in
every country, it was not convenient for foreign commerce, owing to its bulk.  The ratio between
gold and silver was purely a domestic matter, to be determined by each country for itself.
It is apparent that the chief cause of the fall of the market value of silver is its increased
production. This affects the price of every commodity, cotton, corn, or wheat as well as silver.
The law of supply and demand regulates value. It is the "higher law" more potent than acts
of Congress.  If the supply is in excess of demand the price will fall, in spite of legislation.
The most striking evidence of this was furnished by our recent legislation by which we purchased
over 400,000,000 ounces of silver at its market value and hoarded it, and yet the price of
it steadily declined.  We can coin it into silver dollars, but we can keep these dollars at
par with gold only be receiving them as the equal of gold when offered.

During the spring and summer of 1867 the question of impeaching Andrew Johnson, President of
the United States, was frequently discussed in the House of Representatives.  The resolutions
relating to his impeachment were introduced by James M. Ashley, of Ohio, on the 7th of March,
1867, and they were adopted on the same day. These resolutions instructed the judiciary committee,
when appointed, to continue the inquiry, previously ordered, into certain charges preferred
against the President of the United States, with authority to sit during the sessions of the
House, and during any recess the Congress might take.  James F. Wilson, of Iowa, made a minority
report against the resolution of impeachment, signed by himself and Frederick E. Woodbridge,
of Vermont.  Samuel S. Marshall, of Illinois, also made a minority report in behalf of himself
and Charles A. Eldridge, of Wisconsin.

On the 7th of December, the resolution of impeachment reported by the committee on the judiciary
at the previous session was disagreed to by a vote of 57 yeas and 108 nays.  This decision
of the House of Representatives against an impeachment on the charges then made was entirely
justified.  This imposing process was not authorized for misconduct, immorality, intoxication
or neglect of duties, such as were alleged in the report of the committee, but only for high
crimes or misdemeanors.  The House properly made this distinction, and here the accusations
against the President would have ended, but for his attempt, in violation of the constitution
and law, to place General Lorenzo Thomas in an important office without the advice and consent
of the Senate, then in session.

In the latter part of 1867, and the early part of 1868, I became involved in a controversy,
between President Johnson, General Grant and General Sherman, which caused the last-named serious
embarrassment. As much of the correspondence between these parties has been published in the
"Sherman Letters," I at first thought it best not to make any reference to the matter, but
upon reflection, and to explain subsequent events, I insert the letters in their order.

General Sherman was summoned to Washington, by the President, and upon his arrival there wrote
me the following letter:

  "Washington, October 11, 1867.
"Dear Brother:--I have no doubt that you have been duly concerned
about my being summoned to Washington.

"It was imprudently done by the President without going through Grant.  But I think I have
smoothed it over so that Grant does not feel hurt.  I cannot place myself in a situation even
partially antagonistic with Grant.  We must work together.  Mr. Johnson has not offered me
anything, only has talked over every subject, and because I listen to him patiently, and make
short and decisive answers, he says he would like to have me here.  Still he does not oppose
my going back home. . . .

"On Monday I will start for St. Louis by the Atlantic and G. W. road, and pass Mansfield Tuesday.
Can't you meet me and ride some miles?  I have been away from home so much, and must go right
along to Fort Laramie, that I cannot well stop at Cleveland or Mansfield, and would like to
see you for an hour or so to hear your views of the coming events. . . .

  "Yours affectionately,
  "W. T. Sherman."

And on his return to St. Louis he continues:

. . . "I have always talked kindly to the President, and have advised Grant to do so.  I do
think that it is best for all hands that his administration be allowed to run out its course
without threatened or attempted violence.  Whoever begins violent proceedings will lose in
the long run.  Johnson is not a man of action but of theory, and so long as your party is in
doubt as to the true mode of procedure, it would be at great risk that an attempt be made to
displease the President by a simple law of Congress.  This is as much as I have ever said to
anybody.  I have never, by word or inference, given anybody the right to class me in opposition
to, or in support of, Congress.  On the contrary, I told Mr. Johnson that from the nature of
things he could not dispense with a Congress to make laws and appropriate money, and suggested
to him to receive and make overtures to such men as Fessenden, Trumbull, Sherman, Morgan, and
Morton, who, though differing with him in abstract views of constitutional law and practice,
were not destructive. That if the congressional plan of reconstruction succeeded, he could
do nothing, and if it failed or led to confusion, the future developed results in his favor,
etc.; and that is pretty much all I have ever said or done.  At the meeting of the society
of the army of the Tennessee on the 13th inst., I will be forced to speak, if here, and though
I can confine myself purely to the military events of the past, I can make the opportunity
of stating that in no event will I be drawn into the complications of the civil politics of
this country.

"If Congress could meet and confine itself to current and committee business, I feel certain
that everything will work along quietly till the nominations are made, and a new presidential
election will likely settle the principle if negroes are to be voters in the states without
the consent of the whites.  This is more a question of prejudice than principle, but a voter
has as much right to his prejudices as to his vote. . . ."

I answered:

  "Mansfield, Ohio, November 1, 1867.
"Dear Brother:-- . . . I see no real occasion for trouble with
Johnson.  The great error of his life was in not acquiescing in
and supporting the 14th amendment of the constitution in the 39th
Congress.  This he could easily have carried.  It referred the
suffrage question to each state, and if adopted long ago the whole
controversy would have culminated; or, if further opposed by the
extreme radicals, they would have been easily beaten.  Now I see
nothing short of universal suffrage and universal amnesty as the
basis.  When you come on, I suggest that you give out that you go
on to make your annual report and settle Indian affairs.  Give us
notice when you will be on, and come directly to my house, where
we will make you one of the family.

"Grant, I think, is inevitably the candidate.  He allows himself to drift into a position where
he can't decline if he would, and I feel sure he don't want to decline.  My judgment is that
Chase is better for the country and for Grant himself, but I will not quarrel with what I cannot
control.

  "John Sherman."

And later I wrote:--

"If you can keep free from committals to Johnson, you will surely as you live be called upon
to act as President.  The danger now is that the mistakes of the Republicans may drift the
Democratic party into power.  If so, the Rebellion is triumphant, and no man active in suppressing
it will be treated or honored.  Grant is not injured by his correspondence with Johnson, but
no doubt feels annoyed. . . ."

At this time President Johnson had come to open disagreement with Mr. Stanton, his Secretary
of War, and wished to force him from the cabinet.  Mr. Stanton had refused to resign and had
been upheld by Congress.  The President then turned for help in his difficulties to General
Grant, commanding the army; but the latter found that any interference on his part would be
illegal and impossible.

Mr. Johnson then planned to create a new office for General Sherman, that of brevet general
of the army, in order to bring him to Washington.

The following letters and telegrams refer to this difficulty:

  "(Confidential.)
  "Library Room, War Department,       }
  "Washington, D. C., January 31, 1868.}
"To the President:--Since our interview of yesterday I have given
the subject of our conversation all my thoughts, and I beg you will
pardon my reducing the result to writing.

"My personal preferences, if expressed, were to be allowed to return to St. Louis to resume
my present command, because my command was important, large, suited to my rank and inclination,
and because my family was well provided for there, in house facilities, schools, living, and
agreeable society.

"Whilst, on the other hand, Washington was for many (to me) good reasons highly objectionable.
Especially because it is the political capital of the country and focus of intrigue, gossip,
and slander. Your personal preferences were, as expressed, to make a new department east adequate
to my rank, with headquarters at Washington, and to assign me to its command--to remove my
family here, and to avail myself of its schools, etc.; to remove Mr. Stanton from his office
as Secretary of War, and have me to discharge the duties.

"To effect this removal two modes were indicated:  To simply cause him to quit the war office
building and notify the treasury department and the army staff departments no longer to respect
him as Secretary or War; or to remove him, and submit my name to the Senate for confirmation.
Permit me to discuss these points a little, and I will premise by saying that I have spoken
to no one on the subject, and have not even seen Mr. Ewing, Mr. Stanbery, or General Grant
since I was with you.

"It has been the rule and custom of our army, since the organization of the government, that
the officer of the army second in rank should be in command at the second place in importance,
and remote from general headquarters.  To bring me to Washington would put three heads to an
army,--yourself, General Grant, and myself,--and we would be more than human if we were not
to differ.  In my judgment it would ruin the army, and would be fatal to one or two of us.

"Generals Scott and Taylor proved themselves soldiers and patriots in the field, but Washington
was fatal to them both.  This city and the influences that centered here defeated every army
that had its head here from 1861 to 1865, and would have overwhelmed General Grant at Spottsylvania
and Petersburg, had he not been fortified by a strong reputation already hard earned, and because
no one then living coveted the place.  Whereas in the west we made progress from the start,
because there was no political capital near enough to poison our minds and kindle into light
that craving itching for fame which has killed more good men than battles.  I have been with
General Grant in the midst of death and slaughter--when the howls of people reached him after
Shiloh; when messengers were speeding to and fro, between his army and Washington, bearing
slanders to induce his removal before he took Vicksburg; in Chattanooga, when the soldiers
were stealing the corn of the starving mules to satisfy their own hunger; at Nashville, when
he was ordered to the 'forlorn hope' to command the army of the Potomac, so often defeated--and
yet I never saw him more troubled than since he has been in Washington, and has been compelled
to read himself a 'sneak and deceiver,' based on reports of four of the cabinet, and apparently
with your knowledge.  If this political atmosphere can disturb the equanimity of one so guarded
and so prudent as he is, what will be the result with one so careless, so outspoken, as I am?
Therefore, with my consent, Washington never.

"As to the Secretary of War, his office is twofold.  As cabinet officer he should not be there
without your hearty, cheerful consent, and I believe that is the judgment and opinion of every
fair-minded man.  As the holder of a civil office, having the supervision of money appropriated
by Congress, and of contracts for army supplies, I do think Congress, or the Senate by delegation
from Congress, has a lawful right to be consulted.  At all events, I would not risk a suit
or contest on that phase of the question.  The law of Congress of March 2, 1867, prescribing
the manner in which orders and instructions relating to 'military movements' shall reach the
army, gives you, as constitutional commander in chief, the very power you want to exercise,
and enables you to prevent the secretary from making any such orders and instructions, and
consequently he cannot control the army, but is limited and restricted to a duty that an auditor
of the treasury could perform.  You certainly can afford to await the result.  The executive
power is not weakened, but, rather, strengthened.  Surely he is not such an obstruction as
would warrant violence or even a show of force which could produce the very reaction and clamor
that he hopes for, to save him from the absurdity of holding an empty office 'for the safety
of the country.'

  "With great respect, yours truly,
  "W. T. Sherman."

  "Headquarters Military Division of the Missouri,}
  "St. Louis, Mo., February 14, 1868.             }
"To the President:

"Dear Sir:--It is hard for me to conceive you would purposely do me an unkindness, unless under
the pressure of a sense of public duty, or because you do not believe me sincere.

"I was in hopes, since my letter to you of the 31st of January, that you had concluded to pass
over that purpose of yours, expressed more than once in conversation, to organize a new command
for me in the east, with headquarters in Washington; but a telegram, from General Grant, of
yesterday, says that 'the order was issued ordering you' (me) 'to Atlantic division;' and the
newspapers of this morning contain the same information, with the addition that I have been
nominated as 'brevet general.'  I have telegraphed to my own brother in the Senate to oppose
my nomination, on the ground that the two higher grades in the army ought not to be complicated
with brevets, and I trust you will conceive my motives aright.  If I could see my way clear
to maintain my family, I should not hesitate a moment to resign my present commission and seek
some business wherein I would be free from those unhappy complications that seem to be closing
about me, in spite of my earnest efforts to avoid them; but necessity ties my hands, and I
submit with the best grace I can, till I make other arrangements.

"In Washington are already the headquarters of a department, and of the army itself, and it
is hard for me to see wherein I can render military service there.  Any staff officer with
the rank of major could surely fill any gap left between those two military offices; and by
being placed at Washington I shall be universally construed as a rival to the general in chief,
a position damaging to me in the highest degree.  Our relations have always been most confidential
and friendly, and if, unhappily, any cloud of difficulty should arise between us, my sense
of personal dignity and duty would leave me no alternative but resignation.  For this I am
not yet prepared, but I shall proceed to arrange for it as rapidly as possible, that when the
time does come (as it surely will if this plan is carried into effect), I may act promptly.

"Inasmuch as the order is now issued, I cannot expect a full revocation of it, but I beg the
privilege of taking post at New York, or at any point you may name, within the new military
division, other than Washington.

"This privilege is generally granted to all military commanders, and I can see no good reasons
why I, too, may not ask for it; and this simple concession, involving no public interest, will
much soften the blow which, right or wrong, I construe as one of the hardest I have sustained
in a life somewhat checkered with adversity.

  "With great respect, yours truly,
(Signed)  "W. T. Sherman, Lieutenant General."

  "Headquarters Military Division of Missouri,}
  "St. Louis, February 14, 1868.              }
"Dear Brother:-- . . . I am again in the midst of trouble, occasioned
by a telegram from Grant saying that the order is out for me to
come to the command of the military division of the Atlantic,
headquarters at Washington.  The President repeatedly asked me to
accept of some such position, but I thought I had fought it off
successfully, though he again and again reverted to it.

"Now, it seems, he has ordered it, and it is full of trouble for me.  I wrote him one or two
letters in Washington, which I though positive enough, but have now written another, and if
it fails in its object I might as well cast about for new employment.  The result would be
certain conflict, resulting in Grant's violent deposition, mine, or the President's.

"There is not room on board of one ship for more than one captain.

"If Grant intends to run for President I should be willing to come on, because my duties would
then be so clearly defined that I think I could steer clear of the breakers--but now it would
be impossible. The President would make use of me to beget violence, a condition of things
that ought not to exist now.

"He has no right to use us for such purposes, though he is commander in chief.  I did suppose
his passage with Grant would end there, but now it seems he will fight him as he has been doing
Congress. I don't object if he does so himself and don't rope me in. . . .

"If the President forces me into a false position out of seeming favor, I must defend myself.
It is mortifying, but none the less inevitable.

  "Affectionately,
  "W. T. Sherman."

  (Telegram.)
  "Washington, February 14, 1868.
  "From St. Louis, February 14, 1868.
"To General U. S. Grant, Commander U. S. Army:

"Your dispatch informing me that the order for the Atlantic division was issued, and that I
was assigned to its command, is received.

"I was in hopes I had escaped the danger, and now, were I prepared, should resign on the spot,
as it requires no foresight to predict such must be the inevitable result in the end.

"I will make one more desperate effort by mail, which please await.

(Signed)  "W. T. Sherman, Lieutenant General."

  (Telegram.)
  "Dated St. Louis, February 14, 1868.
  "Received at House of Representatives, February 14.
"To Hon. John Sherman:

"Oppose confirmation of myself as brevet general on ground that it is unprecedented, and that
it is better not to extend the system of brevets above major general.  If I can't avoid coming
to Washington I may have to resign.

  "W. T. Sherman, Lieutenant-General."

This correspondence, some of which was published, excited a great deal of attention, and I
received many letters in regard to it, one of which I insert:

  "Washington, D. C., February 17, 1868.
"Dear Sherman:--How nobly and magnanimously your gallant brother
has acted.  If A. J. was not callous to all that would affect
gentlemen generally, he would feel this rebuke stingingly.  But
since he has betrayed the men who elected him he is proof against
such things.

  "Yours very truly,
  "Schuyler Colfax."

Upon the receipt of General Sherman's telegram I requested the committee on military affairs
to take no action upon his nomination, as he did not desire, and would not accept, the proposed
compliment. I have not yet got the order for the Atlantic division, but it is coming by mail,
and when received I must act. I have asked the President to let me make my headquarters at
New York, instead of Washington, making my application of the ground that my simply being in
Washington will be universally construed as rivalry to General Grant, a position which would
be damaging to me in the extreme.

"If I must come to Washington, it will be with a degree of reluctance never before experienced.
I would leave my family here on the supposition that the change was temporary.  I do not question
the President's right to make the new division, and I think Congress would make a mistake to
qualify his right.  It would suffice for them to nonconfirm the brevet of general.  I will
notify you by telegraph when the matter is concluded.

  "Affectionately,
  "W. T. Sherman."

  (Telegram.)
  "Received Washington, February 20, 1868.
  "From St. Louis, Mo., February 20, 1868.
"To General U. S. Grant:

"The President telegraphs that I may remain in my present command. I write him a letter of
thanks through you to-day.  Congress should not have for publication my letters to the President,
unless the President himself chooses to give them.

(Signed)  "W. T. Sherman, Lieut. General."

  "Headquarters Army of the United States.}
  "Washington, February 21, 1868.         }
"Dear Sir:--By General Grant's direction I inclose a copy of a
dispatch from General Sherman, seeming to indicate his preference
that the correspondence in question should not now be made public.

  "Respectfully yours,
  "C. B. Comstock, B. B. S.
"Hon. John Sherman, United States Senate."

A few days after this, General Sherman went to Washington in response to the President's order,
and while there had several interviews with the President relating to the change of his command.
He objected very strongly, as has been seen, to any such change, because he felt that he could
not hold a command in Washington without interfering with Grant's interests, and because he
had a rooted objection to living in Washington in the midst of the turmoil of politics.  These
objections were embodied in three letters which General Sherman wrote and showed to Grant before
he sent them to the President.  One of them found its way into the public press, and created
a disturbance which called forth the following letters:

  "Headquarters Army of the United States,}
  "Washington, D. C., February 22, 1868.  }
"Hon. J. Sherman, United States Senate.

"Dear Sir:--The 'National Intelligencer' of this morning contains a private note which General
Sherman sent to the President whilst he was in Washington, dictated by the purest kindness
and a disposition to preserve harmony, and not intended for publication. It seems to me that
the publication of that letter is calculated to place the general in a wrong light before the
public, taken in connection with what correspondents have said before, evidently getting their
inspiration from the White House.

"As General Sherman afterwards wrote a semi-official note to the President, furnishing me a
copy, and still later a purely official one sent through me, which placed him in his true position,
and which have not been published, though called for by the 'House,' I take the liberty of
sending you these letters to give you the opportunity of consulting General Sherman as to what
action to take upon them.  In all matters where I am not personally interested, I would not
hesitate to advise General Sherman how I would act in his place.  But in this instance, after
the correspondence I have had with Mr. Johnson, I may not see General Sherman's interest in
the same light that others see it, or that I would see it in if no such correspondence had
occurred.  I am clear in this, however, the correspondence here inclosed to you should not
be made public except by the President, or with the full sanction of General Sherman.  Probably
the letter of the 31st of January, marked 'confidential,' should not be given out at all.

  "Yours truly,
  "U. S. Grant."

The following letter was addressed to the "National Intelligencer," a Washington newspaper:

  "United States Senate Chamber, }
  "Washington, February 22, 1868.}
"Gentlemen:--The publication in your paper yesterday of General
Sherman's note to the President, and its simultaneous transmission
by telegraph, unaccompanied by subsequent letters withheld by the
President because they were 'private,' is so unfair as to justify
severe censure upon the person who furnished you this letter,
whoever he may be.  Upon its face it is an informal private note
dictated by the purest motives--a desire to preserve harmony--and
not intended for publication.  How any gentleman receiving such a
note could first allow vague but false suggestions of its contents
to be given out, and then print it, and withhold other letters
because they were 'private,' with a view to create the impression
that General Sherman, in referring to ulterior measures, suggested
the violent expulsion of a high officer from his office, passes my
comprehension.  Still I know that General Sherman is so sensitive
upon questions of official propriety in publishing papers, that he
would rather suffer from this false inference than correct it by
publishing another private note, and as I know that this letter
was not the only one written by General Sherman to the President
about Mr. Stanton, I applied to the President for his consent to
publish subsequent letters.  This consent was freely given by the
President, and I therefore send copies to you and ask their
publication.

"These copies are furnished me from official sources; for while I know General Sherman's opinions,
yet he did not show me either of the letters to the President, during his stay here, nervously
anxious to promote harmony, to avoid strife, and certainly never suggested or countenanced
resistance to law--or violence in any form.  He no doubt left Washington with his old repugnance
to politics, politicians, and newspapers very much increased by his visit here.

  "John Sherman."

  "United States Senate Chamber, February 23, 1868.
"Dear Brother:--I received your letters and telegrams, and did not
answer because events were moving so rapidly that I could say
nothing but might be upset before you got the letter.

"Now you can congratulate yourself upon being clear of the worst complications we have ever
had.  Impeachment seems to be a forgone conclusion so far as the House of Representatives is
concerned, based upon the alleged forcible expulsion of Stanton.  No one disputes the right
of the President to raise a question of law upon his right to remove Stanton, but the forcible
removal of a man in office, claiming to be in lawfully, is like the forcible ejectment of a
tenant when his right of possession is in dispute.  It is a trespass, an assault, a riot, or
a crime, according to the result of the force.  It is strange the President can contemplate
such a thing, when Stanton is already stripped of power, and the courts are open to the President
to try his right of removal.  The President is acting very badly with respect to you.  He creates
the impression that you acted disingenuously with him.  He has published your short private
note before you went to Annapolis, and yet refuses to publish your formal one subsequently
sent to him, because it was 'private.'  The truth is, he is a slave to his passions and resentments.
No man can confide in him, and you ought to feel happy at your extrication from all near connection
with him. . . . Grant is anxious to have your letters published, since the note referred to
was published.  I will see Grant and the President this evening, and if the latter freely consents,
I will do it informally; but if he doubts or hesitates, I will not without your expressed directions.
In these times of loose confidence, it is better to submit for a time to a wrong construction,
than to betray confidential communications.  Grant will, unquestionably, be nominated.  Chase
acquiesces, and I see no reason to doubt his election. . . . I am in possession of all the
news up to date--the passage of the impeachment resolution, etc.--but I yet don't know if the
nomination of T. Ewing, Senior, was a real thing or meant to compromise a difficulty.

"The publication of my short note of January 18, is nothing to me. I have the original draft
which I sent through Grant's hands, with his indorsement back to me.  At the time this note
must have been given to the reporter, the President had an elaborate letter from me, in which
I discussed the whole case, and advised against the very course he has pursued, but I don't
want that letter or any other to be drawn out to complicate a case already bad enough.

"You may always safely represent me by saying that I will not make up a final opinion until
called on to act, and I want nothing to do with these controversies until the time comes for
the actual fight, which I hope to God may be avoided.  If the Democratic party intend to fight
on this impeachment, which I believe they do not, you may count 200,000 men against you in
the south.  The negroes are no match for them.  On this question, the whites there will be
more united than on the old issue of union and secession.  I do not think the President should
be suspended during trial, and, if possible, the Republican party should not vote on all side
questions as a unit.  They should act as judges, and not as partisans.  The vote in the House,
being a strictly party vote, looks bad, for it augurs a prejudiced jury.  Those who adhere
closest to the law in this crisis are the best patriots.  Whilst the floating politicians here
share the excitement at Washington, the people generally manifest little interest in the game
going on at Washington. . . .

  "Affectionately yours,
  "W. T. Sherman."

  "United States Senate Chamber.}
  "Washington, March 1, 1868.   }
"Dear Brother:--Your letter of the 25th is received.  I need not
say to you that the new events transpiring here are narrowly watched
by me.  So far as I am concerned, I mean to give Johnson a fair
and impartial trial, and to decide nothing until required to do
so, and after full argument.  I regard him as a foolish and stubborn
man, doing even right things in a wrong way, and in a position
where the evil that he does is immensely increased by his manner
of doing it.  He clearly designed to have first Grant, and then
you, involved in Lorenzo Thomas' position, and in this he is actuated
by his recent revolt against Stanton.  How easy it would have been,
if he had followed your advice, to have made Stanton anxious to
resign, or what is worse, to have made his position ridiculous.
By his infernal folly we are drifting into turbulent waters.  The
only way is to keep cool and act conscientiously.  I congratulate
you on your lucky extrication.  I do not anticipate civil war, for
our proceeding is unquestionably lawful, and if the judgment is
against the President, his term is just as clearly out as if the
4th of March, 1869, was come.  The result, if he is convicted,
would cast the undivided responsibility of reconstruction upon the
Republican party, and would unquestionably secure the full admission
of all the states by July next, and avoid the dangerous questions
that may otherwise arise out of the southern vote in the Presidential
election.  It is now clear that Grant will be a candidate, and his
election seems quite as clear.  The action of North Carolina removed
the last doubt of his nomination.  Doubtless he intends to hold aloof from the
expression of any opinion, till the actual nomination is made,
when, if he accepts with a strong radical platform, I shall be
surprised.  My notion is that he thinks that the Democrats ought
not to succeed to power, and that he would be willing to stand a
sacrifice rather than see that result. . . . I notice that you
Republicans have divided on some of the side questions on impeachment,
and am glad that you concede to the President the largest limits
in his defense that are offered.  I don't see what the Republicans
can gain by shoving matters to an extent that looks like a foregone
conclusion.

"No matter what men may think of Mr. Johnson, his office is one that ought to have a pretty
wide latitude of opinion.  Nevertheless, the trial is one that will be closely and sternly
criticised by all the civilized world. . . .

  "Your brother,
  "W. T. Sherman."

At this time I wrote from Washington:

"You notice the impeachment proceedings have commenced.  As a matter of course, I have nothing
to say about them.  It is strange that they have so little effect on prices and business. 
The struggle has been so long that the effect has been discounted. . . .

"The President was very anxious to send you to Louisiana, and only gave it up by reason of
your Indian command.  He might think that your visit to Europe now was not consistent with
the reason given for your remaining at St. Louis.  Still, on this point you could readily ask
his opinion, and if that agrees with Grant's you need feel no delicacy in going.  No more favorable
opportunity or time to visit Europe will likely occur. . . ."

General Sherman replied:

"I hardly know what to think of the impeachment.  Was in hopes Mr. Johnson would be allowed
to live out his term, and doubt if any good will result by a change for the few months still
remaining of his term.  A new cabinet, and the changes foreshadowed by Wade's friends, though
natural enough, would have insufficient time to do any good.  I have a private letter from
Grant as late as March 18, but he says not a word of his political intentions.  So far as I
know, he would yet be glad of a change that would enable him to remain as now. . . ."

On the 24th of February the resolution providing for impeachment was adopted by a vote of 126
yeas and 47 nays.

"2.

The trial of this impeachment by the Senate was an imposing spectacle, which excited profound
interest during its continuance.  It was soon developed that the gravamen of the charges was
not the removal of Stanton, but was the attempt of the President to force General Lorenzo Thomas
into a high office without the advice and consent of the Senate.

In the trial of this impeachment I wished to be, and I think I was, absolutely impartial. 
I liked the President personally and harbored against him none of the prejudice and animosity
of some others. I knew he was bold and rash, better fitted for the storms of political life
than the grave responsibilities of the chief magistrate of a great country.  His education,
such as it was, was acquired late in life, when his character was formed and his habits fixed.
Still, his mind was vigorous and his body strong, and when thoroughly aroused he was an able
speaker; his language was forcible and apt and his influence over a popular audience was effective.
I disliked above all things to be a judge in his case.  I knew some of my associates were already
against the President, and others were decided in his favor.  I resolutely made up my mind,
so far as human nature would admit, to fairly hear and impartially consider all the evidence
produced and all the arguments made.

The counsel for the President were Henry Stanbery, B. R. Curtis, Jeremiah S. Black, William
M. Evarts, William S. Groesbeck, and Thomas A. R. Nelson.  The managers on the part of the
House of Representatives were John A. Bingham, George S. Boutwell, James F. Wilson, John A.
Logan, Thomas Williams, Benjamin F. Butler and Thaddeus Stevens.  The trial lasted nearly two
months, was ably conducted on both sides, and ended by the acquittal of the President, on the
eleventh article of impeachment, by a vote of 35 guilty and 19 not guilty.  Two-thirds of those
voting not having pronounced "guilty," as required by the constitution, the President was acquitted
upon this article.  Two other articles were voted on with the same result.  Thereupon, on the
26th day of May, 1868, the Senate sitting as a court of impeachment adjourned without day.
Mr. Stanton resigned and General Schofield became Secretary of War.

I voted for conviction for the reasons stated in the opinion given by me.  I have carefully
reviewed this opinion and am entirely content with it.  I stated in the beginning my desire
to consider the case without bias or feeling.  I quote in full the opening paragraphs:

"This cause must be decided upon the reasons and presumptions which by law apply to all other
criminal accusations.  Justice is blind to the official station of the respondent, and to the
attitude of the accusers speaking in the name of all the people of the United States.  It only
demands of the Senate the application to this cause of the principles and safeguards provided
for every human being accused of crime.  For the proper application of these principles we
ourselves are on trial before the bar of public opinion.  The novelty of this proceeding, the
historical character of the trial, and the grave interests involved, only deepen the obligation
of the special oath we have taken to do impartial justice according to the constitution and laws.

"And this case must be tried upon the charges now made by the House of Representatives.  We
cannot consider other offenses.  An appeal is made to the conscience of each Senator of guilty
or not guilty by the President of eleven specific offenses.  In answering this appeal a Senator
cannot justify himself by public opinion, or by political, personal, or partisan demands, or
even grave considerations of public policy.  His conscientious conviction of the truth of these
charges is the only test that will justify a verdict of guilty.  God forbid that any other
shall prevail here.  In forming this conviction we are not limited merely to the rules of evidence,
which, by the experience of ages, have been found best adapted to the trial of offenses in
the double tribunal of court and jury, but we may seek light from history, from personal knowledge,
and from all sources that will tend to form a conscientious conviction of the truth.  And we
are not bound to technical definitions of crimes and misdemeanors.

"A willful violation of the law, a gross and palpable breach of moral obligations tending to
unfit an officer for the proper discharge of his office, or to bring the office into public
contempt and derision, is, when charged and proven, an impeachable offense. And the nature
and criminality of the offense may depend on the official character of the accused.  A judge
would be held to higher official purity, and an executive officer to a stricter observance
of the letter of the law.  The President, bound as a citizen to obey the law, and specially
sworn to execute the law, may properly, in his high office as chief magistrate, be held to
a stricter responsibility than if his example was less dangerous to the public safety.  Still,
to justify the conviction of the President there must be specific allegations of some crime
or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, gross misconduct, or a willful violation of law,
and the proof must be such as to satisfy the conscience of the truth of the charge.

"The principal charges against the President are that he willfully and purposely violated the
constitution and the laws, in the order for the removal of Mr. Stanton, and in the order for
the appointment of General Thomas as Secretary of War ad interim.  These two orders were contemporaneous--part
of the same transaction--but are distinct acts, and are made the basis of separate articles
of impeachment."

I stated the grounds of my conviction that the action of the President, in placing Lorenzo
Thomas in charge of the office of Secretary of War, without the advice and consent of the Senate,
was a clearly illegal act, committed for the purpose of obtaining control of that office. 
I held that the President had the power to remove Secretary Stanton, but that he had not the
power to put anyone in his place unless the person appointed was confirmed by the Senate.

Did the act of March 2, 1867, commonly known as the "tenure of office act," confer this authority?
On the contrary, it plainly prohibits all temporary appointments except as specially provided
for.  The third section repeats the constitutional authority of the President to fill all vacancies
happening during the recess of the Senate by death or resignation, and provides that if no
appointment is made during the following session to fill such vacancy, the office shall remain
in abeyance until an appointment is duly made and confirmed, and provision is made for the
discharge of the duties of the office in the meantime.  The second session provides for the
suspension of an officer during the recess, and for a temporary appointment during the recess.
This power was exercised and fully exhausted by the suspension of Mr. Stanton until restored
by the Senate, in compliance with the law.  No authority whatever is conferred by this act
for any temporary appointment during the session of the Senate, but, on the contrary, such
an appointment is plainly inconsistent with the act, and could not be inferred or implied for it.

This language is plain, explicit, and was inserted not only to prohibit all temporary appointments
except during the recess, and in the mode provided for in the second section, but the unusual
course was taken of affixing a penalty to a law defining the official duty of the President.
The original bill did not contain penal clauses; but it was objected in the Senate that the
President had already disregarded mandatory provisions of law, and would this; and therefore,
after debate, these penal sections were added to secure obedience to the law, and to give to
it the highest sanction.

I quote my view of the action of the President:

"Was not this act willfully violated by the President during the session of the Senate?

"It appears, from the letter of the President to General Grant, from his conversation with
General Sherman, and from his answer, that he had formed a fixed resolve to get rid of Mr.
Stanton, and fill the vacancy without the advice of the Senate.  He might have secured a new
Secretary of War by sending a proper nomination to the Senate.  This he neglected and refused
to do.  He cannot allege that the Senate refused to relieve him from an obnoxious minister.
He could not say that the Senate refused to confirm a proper appointee, for he would make no
appointment to them.  The Senate had declared that the reasons assigned for suspending Mr.
Stanton did not make the case required by the tenure of office act, but I affirm as my conviction
that the Senate would have confirmed any one of a great number of patriotic citizens if nominated
to the Senate.  I cannot resist the conclusion, from the evidence before us, that he was resolved
to obtain a vacancy in the department of war in such a way that he might fill the vacancy by
an appointment without the consent of the Senate, and in violation of the constitution and
the law.  This was the purpose of the offer to General Sherman. This was the purpose of the
appointment of General Thomas.  If he had succeeded as he hoped, he could have changed his
temporary appointment at pleasure, and thus have defied the authority of the Senate and the
mandatory provisions of the constitution and the law.  I cannot in any other way account for
his refusal to send a nomination to the Senate until after the appointment of General Thomas.
The removal of Mr. Stanton by a new appointment, confirmed by the Senate, would have complied
with the constitution.  The absolute removal of Mr. Stanton would have created a temporary
vacancy, but the Senate was in session to share in the appointment of another.  An ad interim
appointment, without authority of law, during the session of the Senate, would place the department
of war at his control in defiance fo the Senate and the law, and would have set an evil example,
dangerous to the public safety--one which, if allowed to pass unchallenged, would place the
President above and beyond the law.

"The claim now made, that it was the sole desire of the President to test the constitutionality
of the tenure of office act, is not supported by reason or by proof.  He might, in August last,
or at any time since, without an ad interim appointment, have tested this law by a writ of
quo warranto.  He might have done so by an order of removal, and a refusal of Mr. Stanton's
requisitions.  He might have done so by assigning a head of department to the place made vacant
by the order of removal.  Such was not his purpose or expectation.  He expected by the appointment
of General Sherman at once to get possession of the war department, so when General Thomas
was appointed there was no suggestion of a suit at law, until the unexpected resistance of
Mr. Stanton, supported by the action of the Senate, indicated that as the only way left."

It is difficult to convey, by extracts, a correct idea of a carefully prepared opinion, but
this statement shows my view of the case, and, entertaining it, I felt bound, with much regret,
to vote "guilty" in response to my name, but I was entirely satisfied with the result of the
vote, brought about by the action of several Republican Senators.  There was some disposition
to arraign these Senators and to attribute their action to corrupt motives, but there was not
the slightest ground for the imputations.  Johnson was allowed to serve out his term, but there
was a sense of relief when General Grant was sworn into office as President of the United States.

During the 40th Congress, extending from the 4th of March, 1867, to the 4th of March, 1869,
the chief subjects of debate were the contraction of the currency, the refunding of the public
debt, the payment of United States notes in coin, and a revision of the laws imposing internal
taxation and duties on imported goods.

Early in the first session of this Congress, the opposition of the people to the policy of
contraction, constantly pressed by Secretary McCulloch, became so imperative that both Houses
determined to take from him all power to diminish the volume of currency then in circulation.
On the 5th of December, 1867, Robert C. Schenck, chairman of the committee of ways and means,
reported a bill in the following words:

"Be it enacted, etc., That so much of an act entitled 'An act to amend an act to provide ways
and means to support the government,' approved April 12, 1866, as authorizes the Secretary
of the Treasury to retire United States notes to an amount not exceeding $4,000,000 in any
one month, is hereby repealed.

"Sec. 2.  And be it further enacted, That from and after the passage of this act the further
reduction of the currency by retiring or canceling United States notes shall be, and hereby
is, prohibited."

This bill was taken up for consideration on the 7th of December, and, after a brief debate,
with little opposition, passed the House by the vote of 127 yeas and 32 nays.  It was sent
to the Senate, referred to the committee on finance, and was carefully considered. That committee,
with but two dissenting voices, directed me to report the bill to the Senate with a single
amendment.  On the 9th of January, 1868, I called up the bill for consideration, and made a
brief explanation, in which I said the committee, after full reflection, had thought proper
to recommend the passage of the bill of the House of Representatives, in substance as it was
sent to us, only changing the phraseology.  I said that the bill contemplated further legislation
during that session.  It was understood by all that some more comprehensive measures must be
adopted during that session, but until further legislation there should be no more contraction
of the currency.  I thus stated the reasons which, in my opinion, justified the passage of
the bill:

"First.  It will satisfy the public mind that no further contraction will be made when industry
is in a measure paralyzed.  We hear the complaint from all parts of the country, from all branches
of industry, from every state in the Union, that industry for some reason is paralyzed, and
that trade and enterprise are not so well rewarded as they were.  Many, perhaps erroneous,
attribute all this to the contraction of the currency--a contraction that I believe is unexampled
in the history of any nation.  $140,000,000 has been withdrawn out of $737,000,000 in less
than two years.  There is no example, that I know of, of such rapid contraction.  It may be
wise, it may be beneficial, but still it has been so rapid as to excite a stringency that is
causing complaint, and I think the people have a right to be relieved from that.

"Second.  This bill will restore to the legislature their power over the currency, a power
too important to be delegated to any single officer of the government.  I do not wish to renew
the discussion that occurred here two years ago on the passage of the law of April 12, 1866;
but it is still my opinion, as it has been always, that the question of the amount of currency
ought to be fixed by Congress.  We have the power to coin money, and to regulate the value
thereof.  We have coined money in the form of paper money, and certainly the power of Congress
in this respect ought not to be delegated to any single officer.  If contraction ought to be
established as a policy it should be by Congress, not by the Secretary of the Treasury, and
it is not wise to confer upon any officer of the government a power of this kind, which can
be and may be properly controlled and limited by Congress.

"Third.  This will strongly impress upon Congress the imperative duty of acting wisely upon
financial measures, for the responsibility will then rest entirely upon Congress, and will
not be shared with them by the Secretary of the Treasury.

"Fourth.  It will encourage business men to continue old, and embark in new, enterprises, when
they are assured that no change will be made in the measure of value without the open and deliberate
consent of their representatives.

"These considerations are amply sufficient to justify this measure, but it is only preliminary
to others of far greater importance that must command our attention.  These involve--

"1.  The existence of the banking system of the United States.

"2.  The time and manner of resuming specie payments.

"3.  The mode of redeeming the debt of the United States and the kind of money in which it
may be redeemed; and, in this connection, the taxes, if any, that may be levied upon the public
creditors.

"4.  Such a reduction of our expenditures and taxes as will relieve our constituents, as far
as practicable, from the burdens resulting from the recent war."

This led to a long debate, which continued until the 15th of January, when the bill, as amended,
passed by a vote of 33 years and 4 nays.

These decisive votes against contraction definitely settled the policy of the government to
retain in circulation the then existing volume of United States notes.

This bill was sent to the President, and, not having been returned by him within ten days,
it became a law without his approval, under the constitution of the United States.

On the 17th of December, 1867, I reported from the committee on finance a bill for refunding
the national debt and for a conversion of the notes of the United States.  This bill was accompanied
by an elaborate report.  This report was carefully prepared by me, and met, I believe, the
general approval of the committee on finance. In that Congress there were but five Democratic
Senators, and it so happened that all the members of the committee on finance were Republicans,
but these represented widely different opinions on financial subjects.  I undertook, in this
report, to deal in a general way with these topics.  Upon a careful reading of it now I find
but little that I do not approve.  The general policy set out in this report was subsequently
embodied into laws, but the measures relating to refunding the debt and the resumption of specie
payments were not adopted until several years after the date of the report.

The ascertained debt on the first day of December, 1867, as stated by the Secretary of the
Treasury, was $2,639,382,572.68, divided as follows:

Debt bearing coin interest.
5 per cent. bonds, 10-40's, and old fives   $205,532,580.00
6 per cent. bonds of 1867 and 1868 . . . .    14,690,941.80
6 per cent. bonds, 1881  . . . . . . . . .   282,731,550.00
6 per cent. 5-20 bonds . . . . . . . . . . 1,324,412,550.00
Navy pension fund  . . . . . . . . . . . .    13,000,000.00
                                           ----------------
                                          $1,840,367,891.80
Debt bearing currency interest.
6 per cent. bonds  . . . . . . . . . . . .   $18,601,000.00
3-year compound interest notes . . . . . .    62,249,360.00
3-year 7-30 notes  . . . . . . . . . . . .   285,587,100.00
3 per cent. certificates . . . . . . . . .    12,855,000.00
                                           ----------------
                                            $379,292,460.00
Matured debt not presented for payment.
3 year 7-30 notes, due August 15, 1867 . .    $2,855,400.00
Compound interest notes, matured June 10,
  July 15, August 15, and October 15, 1867     7,065,750.00
Bonds, Texas indemnity . . . . . . . . . .       260,000.00
Treasury notes, acts July 17, 1861 and
  prior thereto  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       163,011.64
Bonds, April 15, 1842  . . . . . . . . . .        54,061.64
Treasury notes, March 3, 1863  . . . . . .       868,240.00
Temporary loan . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     2,880,900.55
Certificates of indebtedness . . . . . . .        31,000.00
                                           ----------------
                                             $14,178,363.83
Debt bearing no interest.
United States notes  . . . . . . . . . . .  $356,212,473.00
Fractional currency  . . . . . . . . . . .    30,929,984.05
Gold certificates of deposit . . . . . . .    18,401,400.00
                                           ----------------
                                            $405,543,857.05
  Total debt   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                          $2,639,382,572.68
Amount in treasury, coin . . . . . . . . .  $100,690,645.69
Amount in treasury, currency . . . . . . .    37,486,175.24
  Amount of debt less cash in treasury . . . . . . . . . . .
                                          $2,501,205,751.75

Besides the amounts thus stated there were large balances due to loyal states, upon accounts
not then rendered or ascertained, and to individuals for losses sustained during the war.

The ascertained debt consisted of twenty different forms of liability, some payable in coin
and some in lawful money.  Much of this debt was due on demand, but the great body of it was
payable in from one to twenty years, while the unascertained debt was being stated from time
to time and had to be met from accruing revenues.  Nearly $300,000,000 of debt had been paid
out of current revenue since the close of the war. This recommendation was based on the fixed
policy of the government to limit the duration of a bond within its lifetime, and thus leave
it to the option of the government to pay its indebtedness and to reduce the rate of interest
after a brief period, if the condition of the public revenues and of the money market should
enable it to do so.

Here the question arose whether the bonds known as the 5-20 bonds could be paid in lawful money
after the period of five years, when, by their terms, they were redeemable.  These bonds promised
to pay so many dollars.  Other bonds were specifically payable in coin, and still other bonds
were payable in lawful money; that is, in United States notes.  These notes were then at a
discount, being worth in the market about 88 cents in coin.  But the notes were obligations
of the United States, and it was the duty, and then within the power of the United States,
to advance these notes to par in coin.

The majority of the committee, I among them, believed that the United States should not take
advantage of its own wrong, in not redeeming its notes in coin, but should either advance these
notes to par in coin, or pay its bonds in coin.  The committee, therefore, recommended that
both the notes and bonds should be received in exchange for the funding bonds, and that the
notes should be reissued and maintained at par with coin, and be supported by a reserve of
coin ample to maintain the notes at par with coin.  In other words, the United States would
resume specie payments.  The committee expressed the opinion that, with the system of taxation
then in existence, this policy of refunding and resumption could be maintained, and that the
rate of interest then paid could be reduced to four or five per cent., and the money then in
circulation would be kept at par with coin at the cost only of the interest on the bullion
and coin held to meet any notes presented for redemption. The committee also recommended that
the internal and tariff taxes be revised to correct irregularities or defects, and to repeal
such as were oppressive.

While the committee opposed any contraction of the currency it also opposed any increase of
it.  The general theory of the report was to advance both bonds and notes to par in coin, and
to issue bonds in such form and terms that the government could redeem them, or renew them
at lower rates of interest.

The report states:

"Your committee are therefore of opinion that no legal tender notes, beyond the amount now
limited by law, should be issued under any pressure of financial or political necessity until
they are convertible into gold and silver.  Our duty is to elevate the 'greenback,' the standard
of national credit, to the standard of gold, the money of the world.  Until then we are not
on a substantial foundation.  Let us make the dollar of our promise in the pocket of a laboring
man equal to the dollar of our mint.  The rapidity of the process is a question of public policy.
It may be by gradually diminishing the volume of currency, or be left at its present amount
until increased business or improved credit bring it up to the specie standard."

The refunding bill was taken up by the Senate on the 27th of February, 1868, and was fully
discussed by me.  After stating its general objects I said:

"It is with this view, and actuated by this principle, that the committee on finance have endeavored
to make this a bill of relief, reducing, if possible, consistent with the public faith, the
interest of the public debt, and giving increased value to United States notes.  We have endeavored
in this bill to accomplish three results: First, to reduce the rate of interest with the voluntary
consent of the holders of our securities; second, to make a distinct provision for the payment
of the public debt; and third, to give increased value to United States notes, and to provide
for a gradual resumption of specie payments.  All these are objects admitted to be of the highest
importance.  The only question is, whether the measure proposed tends to accomplish them."

I then quoted the example of the United States and Great Britain in reducing the rate of interest
on public securities.  I do not approve all I said in that speech.  It has been frequently
quoted as being inconsistent with my opinions and action at a later period. It is more important
to be right than to be consistent.  I then proposed to use the doubt expressed by many people
as to the right of the government to redeem the 5-20 bonds in the legal tender money in circulation
when the bonds were sold, as an inducement to the holders of bonds to convert them into securities
bearing a less rate of interest but specifically payable in coin.  Upon this policy I changed
my opinion.  I became convinced that it was neither right nor expedient to pay these bonds
in money less valuable than coin, that the government ought not to take advantage of its neglect
to resume specie payments after the war was over, by refusing the payment of the bonds with
coin.  I acted on this conviction when years afterwards the resumption act was adopted, and
the beneficial results from this action fully justified my change of opinion.

The debate on this bill was participated in by nearly every Senator, and was conceded to be
the most comprehensive and instructive debate on financial questions for many years.

It authorized the exchange of the bonds commonly known as the 5-20 bonds for the bonds authorized
by that bill.  It also authorized the holders of United States notes to the amount of $1,000,
or any multiple of that sum, to convert them into the five per cent. bonds provided for by
the bill.  This bill passed the Senate on the 14th of July, 1868.  It passed the House of Representatives
soon after, with amendments that were disagreed to by the Senate.  The bill and amendments
were referred to a conference committee which reported a modified bill which passed both Houses
and was sent to President Johnson, but at so late a period of the session that it was not approved
by him and thus failed to become a law.

The committee on finance at the next and closing session of that Congress deemed it useless
to report another funding bill, and on the 16th of December, 1868, I reported, by direction
of that committee, the following resolution:

"Resolved by the Senate, That neither public policy nor the good faith of the nation will allow
the redemption of the 5-20 bonds until the United States shall perform its primary duty of
paying its notes in coin or making them equivalent thereto; and measures shall be adopted by
Congress to secure the resumption of specie payments at as early a period as practicable."

This resolution was the foundation of the act "to strengthen the public credit," the first
act subsequently adopted in General Grant's administration.  Neither this nor any other financial
measure was pressed to a conclusion, as we knew that any measure that would be sanctioned by
Congress would probably be vetoed by the President.  This, however, did not stop the almost
continuous financial debate which extended to the currency, banking, funding and taxation.
The drift of opinion was in favor of resumption without contraction, and funding at low rates
of interest on a coin basis.  The wide breach between Congress and the President paralyzed
legislation.  But one vital question had been settled, that no further contraction of the currency
should occur; and it was well settled, though not embodied in law, that no question would be
made as to the payment of bonds in coin.

While Congress was drifting to a sound financial policy, the President and his Secretary of
the Treasury were widely divergent, the former in favor of repudiation, and the latter in favor
of paying and canceling all United States notes.

While the President wished to apply the interest on the United States bonds to the redemption
of the principal, the Secretary of the Treasury was pressing for the restoration of the specie
standard. I quote from his report to Congress, made on the same day the message of the President
was sent us:

"The first and most important of these measures are those which shall bring about, without
unnecessary delay, the restoration of the specie standard.  The financial difficulties under
which the country is laboring may be traced directly to the issue, and continuance in circulation,
of irredeemable promises as lawful money.  The country will not be really and reliably prosperous
until there is a return to specie payments.  The question of a solvent, convertible currency,
underlies all the other financial and economical questions.  It is, in fact, a fundamental
question; and until it is settled, and settled in accordance with the teachings of experience,
all attempts in other financial and economical reforms will either fail absolutely, or be but
partially successful. A sound economy is the lifeblood of a commercial nation.  If this is
debased the whole current of its commercial life must be disordered and irregular.  The starting
point in reformatory legislation must be here.  Our debased currency must be retired or raised
to the par of specie, or cease to be lawful money, before substantial progress can be made
with other reforms."

Under these circumstances, it was manifest that no wise financial legislation could be secured
until General Grant should become President of the United States.

The Republican national convention met at the city of Chicago, on the 20th of May, 1868.  It
declared its approval of the reconstruction policy of Congress, denounced all forms of repudiation
as a national crime, and pledged the national good faith to all creditors at home and abroad,
to pay all public indebtedness, not only according to the letter, but the spirit, of the law.
It favored the extension of the national debt over a fair period for redemption, and the reduction
of the rate of interest whenever it could be honestly made.  It arraigned, with severity, the
treachery of Andrew Johnson, and deplored the tragic death of Abraham Lincoln.  The entire
resolutions were temperate in tone; they embodied the recognized policy of the Republican party,
and made no issue on which Republicans were divided.

The real issue was not one of measures, but of men.  The nomination of General Grant for President,
and Schuyler Colfax for Vice President, upon the basis of reconstruction by loyal men, was
antagonized by the nomination, by the Democratic convention, of Horatio Seymour for President,
and Francis P. Blair for Vice President, upon the basis of universal amnesty, and immediate
restoration to power, in the states lately in rebellion, of the men who had waged war against
the government.

In this contest, Grant was the representative Union soldier of the war, and Seymour was the
special representative of the opponents in the north to the war.  Grant received 197 electoral
votes, and Seymour 72.

A few hours in advance of the meeting of the national convention, there was a great mass meeting
of soldiers and sailors of the war, a delegation from whom, headed by General Lucius Fairchild,
of Wisconsin, entered the convention after its organization and presented this resolution:

"Resolved, That as the soldiers and sailors, steadfast now as ever to the Union and the flag,
fully recognize the claims of Gen. Ulysses S. Grant to the confidence of the American people,
and believing that the victories won under his guidance in war will be illustrated by him in
peace by such measures as will secure the fruits of our exertions and restore the Union upon
a loyal basis, we declare our deliberate conviction that he is the choice of the soldiers and
sailors of the Union for the office of President of the United States."

This resolution was received with great applause.  Henry S. Lane, of Indiana, leaped upon a
chair, and moved to nominate Grant by acclamation.  This was done without rules and amid great
excitement.

I need not say that I gave to General Grant my cordial and active support.  From the beginning
of the canvass to the end, there was no doubt about the result.  I spoke on his behalf in several
states and had frequent letters from him.  Assuming that his election was already foreordained,
I invited him to stop with me in Mansfield, on his way to Washington, and received from him
the following autograph letter, which, though dated at Headquarters Army of the United States,
was written at Galena, Illinois:

  "Headquarters Army of the United States,}
  "Washington, D. C., October 26, 1868.   }
"Dear Senator:--Your invitation to Mrs. Grant and myself to break
our journey east and spend a day or two with you was duly received,
and should have been sooner acknowledged.  I thank you for the
invitation and would gladly accept it, but my party will be large
and having a special car it will inconvenience so many people to
stop over.  Mrs. Grant too and her father are anxious, when they
start, to get through to Washington before they unpack.

  "Yours truly,
  "U. S. Grant.
"Hon. J. Sherman, U. S. S."

On the same day he wrote a letter to General Sherman, which was referred to me by the latter.
As I did not want to change your determination in regard to the publication of the correspondence
between us, and am getting to be a little lazy, I have been slow in answering.  I had forgotten
what my letter to you said but did remember that you spoke of the probable course the Ewings
would take, or something about them which you would not probably want published with the letters.
The fact is, general, I never wanted the letters published half so much on my own account as
yours.  There are a great many people who do not understand as I do your friendship for me.
I do not believe it will make any difference to you in the end, but I do fear that, in case
I am elected, there will be men to advocate the 'abolition of the general' bill who will charge,
in support of their motion, lack of evidence that you supported the Union cause in the canvass.
I would do all I could to prevent any such legislation, and believe that without my doing anything
the confidence in you is too genuine with the great majority of Congress for any such legislation
to succeed.  If anything more should be necessary to prove the falsity of such an assumption
the correspondence between us heretofore could then be produced.

"I agree with you that Sheridan should be left alone to prosecute the Indian War to its end.
If no treaty is made with the Indians until they can hold out no longer we can dictate terms,
and they will then keep them.  This is the course that was pursued in the northwest, where
Crook has prosecuted war in his own way, and now a white man can travel through all that country
with as much security as if there was not an Indian in it.

"I have concluded not to return to Washington until after the election.  I shall go very soon
after that event, however.  My family are all well and join me in respects to Mrs. Sherman
and the children.

  "Yours truly,
  "U. S. Grant.
"Lt. Gen. W. T. Sherman, U. S. Army."

In the spring of 1871 there was a good deal of feeling against Grant, and some opposition indicated
to his renomination for the presidency.  Several influential papers had recommended the nomination
of General Sherman, who then, as always afterwards, had resolutely announced his purpose not
to allow his name to be used in connection with the office of President.  This suggestion arose
out of the feeling that injustice had been done to General Sherman by the Secretary of War,
Mr. Belknap, who practically ignored him, and issued orders in the name of the President, greatly
interfering with the personnel of the army.  This led to the transfer of General Sherman from
Washington to St. Louis.  General Sherman made no complaint of Grant, who had the power to
control the action of the Secretary of War, but the general impression prevailed that the friendly
relations that had always subsisted between the President and General Sherman had been disturbed,
but this was not true.  I have no doubt that Grant, in the following letter, stated truthfully
his perfect willingness that General Sherman should, if he wished, be made his successor as
President:

  "Long Branch, N. J., June 14, 1871.
"Dear Senator:--Being absent at West Point until last evening, for
the last week, your letter of the 5th inst., inclosing one to you
from General Sherman, is only just received.  Under no circumstances
would I publish it; and now that the 'New York Herald' has published
like statements from him it is particularly unnecessary.  I think
his determination never to give up his present position a wise one,
for his own comfort, and the public, knowing it, will relieve him
from the suspicion of acting and speaking with reference to the
effect his acts and sayings may have had upon his claims for
political preferment.  If he should ever change his mind, however,
no one has a better right than he has to aspire to anything within
the gift of the American people.

  "Very truly yours,
  "U. S. Grant.

President Grant entered into his high office without any experience in civil life.  In his
training he was a soldier.  His education at West Point, his services as a subordinate officer
in the Mexican War, and as the principal officer in the Civil War of the Rebellion, had demonstrated
his capacity as a soldier, but he was yet to be tested in civil life, where his duties required
him to deal with problems widely differing from those he had successfully performed in military
life.  I do not recall when I first met him, but was confident it was before his coming to
Washington, in March, 1864, to take command of the armies of the United States.  His arrival
in Washington then was not generally known until he entered the dining hall at Willard's hotel.
He came in alone, and was modestly looking for a vacant seat when I recognized him and went
to him and invited him to a seat at my table.  He quietly accepted, and then the word soon
passed among the many guests to the tables, that General Grant was there, and something like
an ovation was given him.  His face was unknown, but his name and praise had been sounded for
two years throughout the civilized world.  His coming to take full command of the Union forces
was an augury of success to every loyal citizen of the United States.  His personal memoirs,
written in the face of death, tell the story of his life in a modest way, without pretension
or guile.  I am not sure that he added to his fame by his eight years of service as President
of the United States, but what he did in subduing the Rebellion will always keep his name among
those of the greatest benefactors of his country. He was elected because of his military services,
and would have been elected in 1868 by any party that put him in nomination, without respect
to platform or creed.

I believe he strictly performed what he thought was his duty, and if he erred, it was from
a want of experience in the complicated problems of our form of government.  The executive
department of a republic like ours should be subordinate to the legislative department.  The
President should obey and enforce the laws, leaving to the people the duty of correcting any
errors committed by their representatives in Congress.

The first act of the 41st Congress, entitled "An act to strengthen the public credit," was
introduced in the House of Representatives by General Schenck, on the 12th of March, 1869,
and was passed the same day.

It was approved by the President and became a law on the 19th of March.  Thus the controversy
as to the payment of bonds in coin was definitely decided.

But little else of importance was done by Congress during this session.  The usual general
appropriation bill for the Indian department having failed in the previous Congress, a bill
for that purpose was introduced in the House of Representatives and became a law on the 10th
of April.  The bill to provide for deficiencies was passed on the same day.  A change was made
in the tax on distilled spirits and tobacco, and provision was made for submitting the constitutions
of Virginia, Mississippi and Texas to a vote of the people.  A number of measures of local
importance were passed, and, on the 10th of April, the Congress adjourned without day.

The Senate convened in pursuance of a proclamation of the President immediately on the adjournment
of Congress, and after a few days, confined mainly to executive business, adjourned.

The early movements of Grant as President were very discouraging. His attempt to form a cabinet
without consultation with anyone, and with very little knowledge, except social intercourse
with the persons appointed, created a doubt that he would not be as successful as a President
as he had been as a general, a doubt that increased and became a conviction in the minds of
many of his best friends. The appointments of Stewart and Borie were especially objectionable.
George S. Boutwell was well fitted for the office of Secretary of the Treasury, to which he
was appointed after Stewart was excluded by the law.  Washburne was a man of ability and experience,
but he was appointed Secretary of State only for a brief time, and was succeeded by Hamilton
Fish.  Mr. Fish was eminently qualified for the office, and during both of the terms of Grant
discharged the duties of it with great ability and success.  Jacob D. Cox, of Ohio, was an
educated gentleman, a soldier of great merit, and an industrious and competent Secretary of
the Interior.

The impression prevailed that the President regarded these heads of departments, invested by
law with specific and independent duties, as mere subordinates, whose function he might assume.
This is not the true theory of our government.  The President is intrusted by the constitution
and laws with important powers, and so by law are the heads of departments.  The President
has no more right to control or exercise the powers conferred by law upon them than they have
to control him in the discharge of his duties.  It is especially the custom of Congress to
intrust to the Secretary of the Treasury specific powers over the currency, the public debt
and the collection of the revenue.  If he violates or neglects his duty he is subject to removal
by the President, or impeachment by the House of Representatives, but the President cannot
exercise or control the discretion reposed by law in the Secretary of the Treasury, or in any
head or subordinate in any department of the government.  This limitation of the power of the
President, and the distribution of power among the departments, is an essential requisite of
a republican government, and it is one that an army officer, accustomed to give or receive
orders, finds it difficult to understand and to observe when elected President.

Congress convened on the 6th of December, 1869.  The chief recommendations submitted to Congress
by the President related to the gradual reconstruction of the states lately in rebellion, to
the resumption of specie payments and the reduction of taxation. The relations of Great Britain
and the United States growing out of the war were treated as a grave question, and a hope was
expressed that both governments would give immediate attention to a solution of the just claims
of the United States growing out of the Civil War.  The message was brief, modest, conservative
and clear.  He closed by saying that on his part he promised a rigid adherence to the laws
and their strict enforcement.

It is a question of grave doubt whether this amendment, though right in principle, was wise
or expedient.  The declared object was to secure impartial suffrage to the negro race.  The
practical result has been that the wise provisions of the 14th amendment have been modified
by the 15th amendment.  The latter amendment has been practically nullified by the action of
most of the states where the great body of this race live and will probably always remain.
This is done, not by an express denial to them of the right of suffrage, but by ingenious provisions,
which exclude them on the alleged ground of ignorance, while permitting all of the white race,
however ignorant, to vote at all elections.  No way is pointed out by which Congress can enforce
this amendment.  This simple remedy, easily enforced by Congress, would have secured the right
of all persons, without distinction of race or color, to vote at all elections. The reduction
of representation would have deterred every state from excluding the vote of any portion of
the male population above twenty-one years of age.  As the result of the 15th amendment, the
political power of the states lately in rebellion has been increased, while the population,
conferring this increase, is practically denied all political power.  I see no remedy for this
wrong except the growing intelligence of the negro race, which, in time, I trust, will enable
them to demand and to receive the right of suffrage.

The most important financial measure of that Congress was the act to refund the national debt.
The bonds known as the 5-20's, bearing interest at six per cent., became redeemable, and the
public credit had so advanced that a bond bearing a less rate of interest could be sold at par.

The first section authorized the issue of $400,000,000 of bonds, redeemable in coin at the
pleasure of the United States, at any time after ten years, bearing interest at five per cent.

The second section authorized the issue of bonds to the amount of $400,000,000, redeemable
at the pleasure of the government, at any time after fifteen years, and bearing interest at
four and a half per cent.

The third section authorized the issue of $400,000,000 of bonds, redeemable at any time after
twenty years, and bearing interest at the rate of four per cent.

The proceeds of all these bonds were to be applied to the redemption of 5-20 and 10-40 bonds,
and other obligations of the United States then outstanding.

It will be perceived that this bill provided for the issue of securities, all of which were
redeemable within twenty years, and two-thirds of which were redeemable within fifteen years,
so that if the bill, as reported by the committee on finance, had become the law, no such difficulty
as we labored under eighteen years later, when we had a large surplus revenue, would have existed.

The bill passed the Senate, in substantially the form reported from the committee on finance,
by the large vote of 33 to 10, and was, perhaps, the most carefully prepared of any of the
financial measures of the government.

In opening the debate, I called the attention of the Senate to the great advantage the government
had derived from making its bonds redeemable at brief periods, like the 5-20 bonds, the 10-40
bonds, and the treasury notes.  I also called attention to the fact that the same principle
of maintaining the right to redeem had been ingrafted in the bill then before the Senate, that
the duration of the bonds was divided into three periods of ten, fifteen, and twenty years,
during which time, by the gradual application of the surplus revenue, the whole debt might
be paid.  This was the bill sent by the Senate to the House of Representatives, and if it had
been adopted by the House, there would have been no trouble about the application of the surplus
revenue, but by common consent it would have been used in the speedy extinction of the public debt.

The bill was sent to the House of Representatives on the 11th of March, and there seems to
have slept for nearly three months without any action on the part of the House.

On the 6th of June the committee on ways and means reported House bill 2167, covering the same
subject-matters as were contained in the Senate bill.  The consideration of this bill was commenced,
by sections, on the 30th of June.  The material part of the first section of this bill is as
follows:

"That the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized to issue, in a sum or sums not exceeding
in the aggregate $1,000,000,000, coupon or registered bonds of the United States, in such form
as he may prescribe, and of denomination of $50, or some multiple of that sum, redeemable in
coin of the present standard value at the pleasure of the United States after thirty years
from the date of their issue, and bearing interest payable semi-annually in such coin at the
rate of four per cent. per annum."

Thus it will be perceived that instead of the three series of bonds provided by the Senate,
the House proposed to authorize the issue of $1,000,000,000, redeemable in coin after thirty
years from the date of their issue, with interest at four per cent.  This difference in the
description of the bonds was the chief difference between the propositions of the House and
the Senate.  To emphasize this difference I quote what was said by the chairman of the House
committee, Mr. Schenck, in reporting the bill:

"It is a proposition to refund a portion of the public debt of the country at a very much lower
rate of interest.  It is a proposition that $1,000,000,000 of that debt shall take the form
of bonds, upon which the United States will agree to pay only four per cent. per annum.  But,
in order to make those bonds acceptable to capitalists at home and abroad, further provision
is made that the bonds themselves shall have a longer time to run, not merely for thirty years,
but that they shall only be redeemable after thirty years; thus giving them, without the objections,
the advantages which in a great degree attach to a perpetual loan."

This bill, with a very limited debate, passed the House on the 1st of July, and then immediately
was offered as a substitute for the Senate bill, and was adopted.

Those two rival propositions, differing mainly upon the question of the character of the bonds
to be issued, were sent to a committee of conference, composed on the part of the Senate of
Messrs. Sherman, Sumner and Davis.  The chief controversy in the conference was as to the description
of funding bonds to be provided for.  After many meetings it was finally agreed that the bonds
authorized should be $200,000,000 five per cent. bonds, $300,000,000 four and a half per cent.
bonds, of the character described in the Senate bill, and $1,000,000,000 of four per cent.
bonds, as described in the House bill.  In other words, it was a compromise which, like many
other compromises, was in its results an injury of great magnitude, but it was an honest difference
of opinion between the Senate and the House, in which, tested by the march of time, the Senate
was right and the House was wrong.  But it was perfectly manifest that without this concession
by the Senate to the House, the bill could not have passed, and even with this concession,
the first report of the committee of conference was disagreed to by the House, because of certain
provisions requiring the national banks to substitute the new bonds as the basis of banking
circulation.

This disagreement by the House compelled a second committee of conference, in which the contested
banking section was stricken out, and the bill agreed to as it now stands on the statute books.

And thus thirty-year securities, subsequently at a premium of more than twenty-five per cent.,
were forced into the law by the determined action of the House.

This proved to be an error.  No bonds should have been authorized that did not contain a stipulation
that the government might pay them at pleasure, after a brief period and before they became
due. This stipulation during the war was inserted in the 5-20 and the 10-40 bonds.  Its wisdom
and importance were demonstrated by the early substitution of bonds bearing a lower rate of
interest for the 5-20 six per cent. bonds.  When this precedent was cited, and its saving to
the government shown, it was strongly urged by the House conferees that such a provision would
prevent the sale of bonds, and that there was no probability that bonds bearing less than four
per cent. could be sold at any time at par.  This was proven to be an error within a short
period, for securities of the United States bearing three per cent. interest have been sold at par.

Some years later, Senator Beck, of Kentucky, arraigned me for consenting to the issue of bonds
running thirty years, but I was able to show by the public records that I resisted this long
duration of the four per cent. bonds, that the House insisted upon it, and that Mr. Beck, then
a Member of the House, voted for it.  The same objection was made by the Senate conferees to
the bonds bearing four and a half and five per cent., that no stipulation was made authorizing
the government to anticipate the payment of these bonds. Under the Senate bill the bonds would
have been redeemable in a brief period, and would, no doubt, have been redeemed by bonds bearing
four, three and a half, or three per cent. interest.

The bill, as it passed, authorized the conversion of all forms of securities, then outstanding,
into the bonds provided for by the refunding act at par one with the other.  The Secretary
of the Treasury could sell the bonds provided for by the refunding act at par, and with the
proceeds pay off the then existing securities as they became redeemable.  In the discussion
of this bill in the Senate, on the 28th of February, 1870, I made a carefully prepared speech,
giving a detailed history of the various securities outstanding, and expressed the confident
opinion that the existing coin bonds bearing six per cent. interest, and other securities bearing
interest in lawful money, could be refunded into bonds running for a short period, bearing
a reduced rate of interest. I said:

"After a long and memorable debate of over two months in both Houses of Congress, the act of
February 25, 1862, was adopted.  That was a revolutionary act.  It was a departure from every
principle of the financial policy of this government from its foundation.  It overthrew, not
only the mode and manner of borrowing money, but the character of our public securities, and
was the beginning of a new financial system, unlike anything that had been ventured upon by
any people in the world before.  This new policy was adopted under the pressure of the severest
necessities, and only because of those necessities, and was intended to meet a state of affairs
never foreseen by the framers of the constitution.

"Now, sir, it is important to understand the principles of this act; for this act was the foundation
of all the financial measures during the war.  It was upon the basis of this act, enlarged
and modified from time to time, that we were enabled to borrow $3,000,000,000 in three years
and to put down the most formidable rebellion in modern history.  This act was based upon certain
fundamental conditions.

"Extraordinary power was conferred upon the Secretary of the Treasury to borrow money in almost
any form, at home or abroad, practically without limitation as to amount, or with limits repeatedly
enlarged. Every form of security which the ingenuity of man could devise was provided for by
this act or the acts amending it.  Under these acts bonds were issued, payable in twenty years,
treasury notes were issued, certificates of indebtedness, compound-interest notes, and other
forms of indebtedness, with varying rates of interest.  There were, however, distinct limitations
upon the nature and character of these loans.  It was stipulated first, that more than six
per cent. interest in gold should not be paid on the bonds issued, nor more than seven and
three-tenths interest in currency should be paid on the notes issued; and second, all the loans
provided by this act were short loans, redeemable within a short period of time at the pleasure
of the United States.  Thus the gold bonds were redeemable after five years, the treasury notes
were redeemable after three years, and all forms of security were within the power of the United
States at the end of five years at furthest.  And third, no securities were to be sold at less
than par.  Their unavoidable depreciation was measured, not by the rate of their discount,
but by the depreciation of the currency.  We held our bonds at par in paper money, though at
times they were worth only forty per cent. of gold. . . .

"Now, Mr. president, it may be proper to state the reasons for this policy.  Short loans were
adopted that we might not bind the future to the payment of usurious rates of interest.  We
recognized the existence of a great pressing necessity that would tend to depreciate the public
credit; and we took care, therefore, not to make these loans for a long period, so as to bind
the future to the payment of the rates which we were then compelled to pay.

"We provided for gold interest and gold revenue, to avoid the extreme inflations of an irredeemable
currency.  We wished to rest our paper fabric on a coin basis, and to keep constantly in view
ultimate specie payments.  I believe but for that provision in the loan act of February 25,
1862, that in 1864 our financial system would have been utterly overthrown.  There was nothing
to anchor it to the earth except the collection of duties in coin and the payment of the interest
on our bonds in coin.

"But, sir, the most important and the most revolutionary principle of the act of February 25,
1862, was the legal tender clause.  This was a measure of imperious and pressing necessity.
I can recall very well the debates in the Senate and in the House of Representatives upon the
legal tender clause.  We were then standing in the face of a deficit of some $70,000,000 of
unpaid requisitions to our soldiers.  Creditors in all parts of the country, among them the
most powerful corporations of this country, had refused our demand notes, then very slightly
depressed.  We were under the necessity of raising two or three million dollars per day.  We
were then organizing armies unheard of before.  We stood also in the presence of defeat, constant
and imminent, which fell upon our armies in all parts of the country.  It was before daylight
was shed upon any part of our military operations.  We adopted the legal tender clause then
as an absolute expedient.  Remembering the debate, I know with what slow steps the majority
of the Senate came to the necessity of adopting legal tenders."

The debt of the United States on the 31st of August, 1866, when it reached its maximum, amounted
to $2,844,649,627.  On the 1st of March, 1870, the debt had been reduced to less than $2,500,000,000,
of which about $400,000,000 was in United States notes, for the redemption of which no provision
was made.  It was the confident expectation of Congress, which proved to be correct, that before
the refunding operations were complete, the debt would be gradually reduced, so that the sum
of $1,500,000,000, provided for in the law, would be sufficient to refund all existing debts,
except United States notes, into the new securities.

The process of refunding progressed slowly, was confined to the five per cent. bonds, and was
somewhat interrupted by the financial stringency of 1873.

By the act approved January 20, 1871, the amount of five per cent. bonds authorized by the
act approved July 14, 1870, was increased to $500,000,000, but the act was not to be construed
to authorize any increase of bonds provided for by the refunding act.

Prior to the 24th of August, 1876, there had been sold, for refunding purposes, the whole of
the $500,000,000 five per cents. authorized by that act, and on that day Lot M. Morrill, Secretary
of the Treasury, entered into a contract for the sale of $40,000,000 of the four and a half
per cent. bonds authorized by the refunding act.  By this process of refunding an annual saving
had been made of $5,400,000 a year, by the reduction of interest in the sale of $540,000,000
bonds.  On the 9th day of June, 1877, I, as Secretary of the Treasury, terminated the contract
made by Mr. Morrill, my predecessor, and placed on the market the four per cent. bonds provided
for by the refunding act.  The subsequent proceedings under this act will be more appropriately
referred to hereafter.

The more difficult problem remained of advancing United States notes to par in coin.  This
could be accomplished by reducing the amount of these notes outstanding, and, thus, by their
scarcity, add to their value.  They were a legal tender in payment for all debts, public and
private, except for duties on imported goods and interest on the public debt.  As long as these
notes were at a discount for coin they could circulate only in the United States, and until
they were at par with coin, coin would not circulate as money in the United States, except
to pay coin liabilities.  The notes were a dishonored, depreciated promise, the purchasing
power of which varied day by day, the football of "bulls and bears."  In many respects these
notes were better than any other form of depreciated paper money, for the people of the United
States had full confidence in their ultimate redemption.  They were much better and in higher
favor with the people than the state bank notes which they replaced and which were not only
depreciated like United States notes but had been often proven worthless in the hands of innocent
holders.  They were as good as national bank notes, however well secured, for these notes were
not payable in coin, but could be redeemed by United States notes.  Still, with all their defects
the United States notes were the favorite money of the people, and any attempt to contract
their volume was met by a strong popular opposition.

As already stated, the gradual reduction of the volume of United States notes, urged so strongly
by Secretary McCulloch, and provided for by the resumption act, met with popular opposition
and was repealed by Congress.  Under these conditions it became necessary to approach the specie
standard of value without a contraction of the currency.  The act to strengthen the public
credit, already referred to, was the beginning of this struggle.  The government was, by this
act, committed to the payment of the United States notes in coin or its equivalent.  But when
and how was not stated or even considered.  Many events must occur before the fulfillment of
this promise could be attempted.

At the date of the passage of the act "to strengthen the public credit," on March 19, 1869,
there was but little coin in circulation in the United States except gold coin, and that was
chiefly confined to the Pacific coast, or to the large ports of entry, to be used in payment
of duties on imported goods.  Silver coins were not in circulation.  The amount of silver coined
in 1869 was less than one million dollars and that mainly for exportation.  Fractional notes
of different denominations, from ten to fifty cents, were issued by the treasury to the amount
of $160,000,000, of which $120,000,000 had been redeemed, and $40,000,000 were outstanding
in circulation or had been destroyed.  These fractional notes superseded silver coin as United
States notes superseded gold coin. The coinage laws as they then existed were scattered through
the laws of the United States from 1793 to 1853, and were in many respects imperfect and conflicting.

The ratio fixed by Alexander Hamilton, of fifteen ounces of silver as the equivalent of one
ounce of gold, was, at the time it was adopted, substantially the market ratio, but the constant
tendency of silver to decline in relative value to gold had been going on for years and it
continued to decline, almost imperceptibly perhaps, and the legal ratio in France having been
fixed at fifteen and a half to one, there was an advantage in shipping gold to that country
from this, and consequently very little if any of our gold, even if coined, came into circulation.
By the act of 1793 foreign coins were made a legal tender for circulation in this country,
and the Spanish silver dollar, on which ours was founded, with the 8th or "real" pieces, found
great favor.  Singularly enough, in Mexico and the West Indies, the Spanish population would
exchange their dollars for ours, dollar for dollar, although their pieces, if not worn, were
each three grains heavier.  This led to an exchange of our dollars for the Spanish ones, which
were promptly recoined at the mint at a fair profit to the depositor.

This put upon the government the expense of manufacturing coins with no advantage.  The evil
grew so great that in 1806 the further coinage of our silver dollars was prohibited by President
Jefferson, in an order issued through the state department, as follows:

  "Department of State, May 1, 1806.
"Sir:--In consequence of a representation from the director of the
Bank of the United States, that considerable purchases have been
made of dollars coined at the mint for the purpose of exporting
them, and as it is probable further purchases and exportations will
be made, the President directs that all the silver to be coined at
the mint shall be of small denominations, so that the value of the
largest pieces shall not exceed half a dollar.

  "I am, etc.,
  "James Madison.
"Robert Patterson, Esq., Director of the Mint."

The coinage of the silver dollar at our mint was not resumed until 1836.  The small and worn
Spanish pieces, being legal tender, also drove from circulation our fractional coins coming
bright and plump from the mint.  Bank notes and these worn pieces furnished the circulation
of the country.

The condition of the currency became so objectionable that in 1830 the subject was taken up
by a special committee of the House of Representatives, appointed for the purpose.  Three reports
were submitted, in one of which the committee stated that of $37,000,000 coined at our mints
only $5,000,000 remained in circulation.  A bill was submitted to the House fixing the ratio
at 15.625 to one, and was strongly urged.  There appeared no special opposition to the measure
for a time, but the feeling of opposition to the circulation of bank bills had become very
strong among the people and was reflected by the administration.

In the Senate the opposition to bank bills was headed by Thomas H. Benton, who openly advocated
so changing the coinage ratio that gold would circulate to the exclusion of the notes, and
perhaps incidentally of silver also.  The matter of providing for silver, however, received
little attention.  The ratio was changed to sixteen to one, John Quincy Adams and Daniel Webster
joining with Calhoun and Benton in bringing it about.  It was well understood at the time that
the operation of this act would banish silver. The object of the change was distinctly stated,
especially by Mr. Benton, who said:

"To enable the friends of gold to go to work at the right place to effect the recovery of that
precious metal, which their fathers once possessed; which the subjects of European kings now
possess; which the citizens of the young republics to the south all possess; which even the
free negroes of San Domingo possess; but of which the yeomanry of America have been deprived
for more than twenty years, and will be deprived forever, unless they discover the cause of
the evil and apply the remedy to its root."

By the act of 1834, superadded to by the act of 1837, the ratio of sixteen to one instead of
fifteen to one was adopted.  The result was that gold coins were largely introduced and circulated;
but as sixteen ounces of silver were worth more than one ounce of gold, the silver coins disappeared,
except the depreciated silver coin of other countries, then a legal tender.  To correct this
evil, Congress, on the 21st of February, 1853, provided for the purchase of silver bullion
by the government, to be coined by it and not for the owners of the bullion.  That was the
first time the government had ever undertaken to buy bullion for coinage purposes.  It provided
for the purchase of silver bullion and the coinage of subsidiary silver coins at the ratio
of less than fifteen to one.  No mention was made of the dollar in the act of 1853.  It had
fallen into disuse and when coined was exported, being more valuable as bullion than as coin.

As the value of the minor coins was less that gold at the coinage ratio, they were limited
as a legal tender to five dollars in any one payment.  They were, in fact, a subsidiary coin
made on government account, and, from their convenience and necessity, were maintained in circulation.
They were similar to the coins now in use, revived and re-enacted by the resumption act of 1875.

It was not the intention of the framers of this law to demonetize silver, because they were
openly avowed bimetallists, but it limited coinage to silver bought by the government at market
price.  They saw, in this expedient, a way in which silver could be more generally utilized
than in any other.  Mr. R. M. T. Hunter, an avowed bimetallist, in a report to the United States
Senate, said:

"The mischief would be great indeed if all the world were to adopt but one of the precious
metals as the standard of value.  To adopt gold alone would diminish the specie currency more
than one-half; and the reduction the other way, should silver be taken as the only standard,
would be large enough to prove highly disastrous to the human race."

He evidently did not consider the purchase of silver bullion at its coinage value by the government,
instead of the free coinage of silver, as monometallism.

After the passage of the act of 1853, gold in great quantities, the produce of the mines of
California, was freely coined at the ratio of sixteen to one, and was in general circulation.
If, then, the purchase of silver, instead of the free coinage of silver, is the demonetization
of silver, it was demonetized practically in 1834, and certainly in 1853, when the purchase
of silver and its use as money increased enormously.  In 1852 the coinage of silver was less
than $1,000,000.  In the next year the coinage of silver rose to over $9,000,000, and reached
the aggregate of nearly $50,000,000 before the beginning of the Civil War.  Then, as now, the
purchase of silver bullion led to a greater coinage than free coinage.

This was the condition of our coinage until the war, like all other great wars in history,
drove all coins into hoarding or exportation, and paper promises, great and small, from five
cents to a thousand dollars, supplanted both silver and gold.

When, therefore, it became necessary to prepare for the coinage of gold and silver to meet
the requirements of the act of 1869, "to strengthen the public credit," it was deemed by the
treasury department advisable to revise and codify the coinage laws of the United States. 
Mr. Boutwell, then Secretary of the Treasury, with the assistance of John Jay Knox, deputy
comptroller, afterwards comptroller, of the currency, and the officers of the mints of the
United States, prepared a complete code of the coinage laws.  It was submitted to experts,
not only to those in the treasury but also to all persons familiar with the subject.

The law, tested by experience, is conceded to be an excellent measure.  A single provision
of the bill has been the subject of charges and imputations that the silver dollar was, in
a fraudulent and surreptitious way, "demonetized" by this act.  There is not the slightest
foundation for this imputation.  The bill was sent to me as chairman of the committee on finance,
and submitted to the Senate with this letter:

  "Treasury Department, April 25, 1870.  The bill has been prepared under
the supervision of John Jay Knox, deputy comptroller of the currency,
and its passage is recommended in the form presented.  It includes,
in a condensed form, all the important legislation upon the coinage,
not now obsolete, since the first mint was established, in 1792;
and the report gives a concise statement of the various amendments
proposed to existing laws and the necessity for the change recommended.
There has been no revision of the laws pertaining to the mint and
coinage since 1837, and it is believed that the passage of the
inclosed bill will conduce greatly to the efficiency and economy
of this important branch of the government service.

  "I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
  "Geo. S. Boutwell, Secretary of the Treasury.
"Hon. John Sherman,
  "Chairman Finance Committee, United States Senate."

Section 15 of the original bill omitted the silver dollar.  It was as follows:

"Sec. 15.  And be it further enacted, That of the silver coin, the weight of the half dollar,
or piece of 50 cents, shall be 192 grains; and that of the quarter dollar and dime shall be,
respectively, one-half and one-fifth of the weight of said half dollar.  That the silver coin
issued in conformity with the above section shall be a legal tender in any one payment of debts
for all sums less than one dollar."

Section 18 prohibited all coins except those named, as follows:

"Sec. 18.  And be it further enacted, That no coins, either gold, silver, or minor coinage,
shall hereafter be issued from the mint other than those of the denominations, standards, and
weights herein set forth."

Special attention was called to the dropping out of the silver dollar, both by Secretary Boutwell
and Mr. Knox, and the opinion of experts was invited and given on this special matter and communicated
to Congress.  These sections, in the three years that the bill was pending in Congress, were
changed either in the House or Senate in only one or two unimportant particulars.

Accompanying the report of Mr. Knox were the statements of Robert Patterson, of Philadelphia,
confessedly one of the ablest scientists and metallists in the United States, in favor of dropping
from our coinage the silver dollar.  Dr. Linderman, the director of the mint, made the same
recommendation.  In the report accompanying the introduction of the bill, under date of April
25, 1870, Comptroller Knox gives the history of the silver dollar and the reasons for its discontinuance
as follows:

"The dollar unit, as money of account, was established by the act of Congress April 2, 1792,
and the same act provides for the coinage of a silver dollar, 'of the value of a Spanish milled
or pillar dollar, as the same is now current.'  The silver dollar was first coined in 1794,
weighing 416 grains, of which 371¼ grains were pure silver, the fineness being 892.4.  The
act of January 18, 1837, reduces the standard weight to 412½ grains, but increases the fineness
to 900, the quantity of pure silver remaining 371¼ grains as before, and at these rates it
is still coined in limited amounts."

He then says:

"The coinage of the silver dollar piece, the history of which is here given, is discontinued
in the proposed bill.  It is, by existing law, the dollar unit, and assuming the value of gold
to be fifteen and one-half times that of silver, being about the mean ratio for the past six
years, is worth in gold a premium of about three per cent. (its value being 103.12) and intrinsically
more than seven per cent. premium in our other silver coin, its value thus being 107.42.  The
present laws consequently authorize both a gold dollar unit and a silver dollar unit, differing
from each other in intrinsic value.  The present gold dollar piece is made the dollar unit
in the proposed bill, and the silver dollar piece is discontinued. If, however, such a coin
is authorized, it should be issued only as a commercial dollar, not as a standard unit of account,
and of the exact value of the Mexican dollar, which is the favorite for circulation in China
and Japan and other oriental countries.

"Note.--Assuming the value of gold to be fifteen and one-half times that of silver, the French
5-franc piece is worth about 96½ cents (96.4784); the standard Mexican dollar 104.90, our silver
dollar piece 103.12, and two of our half-dollar pieces 96 cents."

The finance committee carefully examined the bill.  We were not in any hurry about it.  It
was sent to us in April, 1870, and was printed and sent, by order of the Senate, to everyone
who desired to read it or look over it.

That committee was composed of Messrs. Sherman, Williams, Cattell, Morrill, Warner, Fenton
and Bayard.

The bill was reported unanimously to the Senate December 19, 1870, after lying in the committee
room for eight months.

The dollar was dropped from the coins in the bill framed in the treasury department.  It was
then an unknown coin.  Although I was quite active in business which brought under my eye different
forms of money, I do not remember at that time ever to have seen a silver dollar.  Probably
if it had been mentioned to the committee and discussed it would have been thought, as a matter
of course, scarcely worthy of inquiry.  If it was known at all, it was known as a coin for
the foreign market.

No one proposed to reissue it.  The Pacific coast had six intelligent, able, and competent
Senators on the floor of the Senate.  They would have carefully looked out for the interest
of silver, if the bill affected them injuriously.  The authority given in the bill as it finally
passed for coining the so-called trade dollar, met all the demands of the silver producing
states.  But the silver dollar at that time was worth more than the gold dollar.  California
and Nevada were on the gold standard.

The bill was printed over and over again, finally reported, and brought before the Senate.
It was debated there for three days. Every Senator from the Pacific coast spoke upon the measure.
Representing the committee, I presented the questions as they occurred from time to time, until
finally we differed quite seriously upon the question of a charge for the coinage of gold.
The only yea and nay vote in the Senate on the passage of that bill, after two days debate,
occurred on the 10th of January, 1871.  Those who voted in favor of the bill were Messrs. Bayard,
Boreman, Brownlow, Casserly, Cole, Conkling, Corbett, Davis, Gilbert, Hamlin, Harlan, Jewett,
Johnston, Kellogg, McCreary, Morton, Nye, Patterson, Pomeroy, Pool, Ramsey, Rice, Saulsbury,
Spencer, Stewart, Stockton, Sumner, Thurman, Tipton, Trumbull, Vickers, Warner, Willey, Williams,
Wilson and Yates--36.

Every one of the six members of the Pacific coast voted for the bill after full debate.

Against this bill were Messrs. Abbott, Ames, Anthony, Buckingham, Carpenter, Chandler, Fenton,
Hamiliton, of Texas, Harris, Howell, Morrill, of Vermont, Pratt, Scott and Sherman--14.

So on the only yea and nay vote which was ever taken upon the bill I voted against it.  It
was not on account of demonetizing the silver dollar.  I did not do it because of that, but
I did it because gold was then only coined for the benefit of private depositors; we were not
using gold except for limited purposes. Gold was the standard in California, and we thought
the people of that state ought to continue to pay the old and reasonable rate for coinage of
one-fifth of one cent to the dollar.  No action was taken on the bill in the House of Representatives,
and it failed to pass during that Congress.  At the beginning of the next Congress the bill
was introduced by Wm. D. Kelley, and reported by him favorably to the House of Representatives.
It gave rise to considerable debate, especially the section defining the silver coins.  No
one proposed to restore the old silver dollar, but the House inserted a coin precisely the
equivalent of five francs, or two half dollars of our subsidiary coin, and this franc dollar,
as it was called, was made, like other subsidiary coins, a legal tender only for five dollars.
On the 9th of April, 1872, Mr. Hooper, having charge of the bill, called especial attention
to the dropping of the old dollar and the substitution of the French dollar.  He said, on April
9, 1872:

"Section 16 re-enacts the provisions of existing laws defining the silver coins and their weights,
respectively, except in relation to the silver dollar, which is reduced in weight from 412½
to 384 grains; thus making it a subsidiary coin in harmony with the silver coins of less denomination,
to secure its concurrent circulation with them.  The silver dollar of 412½ grains, by reason
of its bullion and intrinsic value being greater than its nominal value, long since ceased
to be a coin of circulation, and is melted by manufacturers of silverware.  It does not circulate
now in commercial transactions with any country, and the convenience of those manufacturers,
in this respect, can better be met by supplying small stamped bars of the same standard, avoiding
the useless expense of coining the dollar for that purpose.  The coinage of the half dime is
discontinued for the reason that its place is supplied by the copper nickel five-cent piece,
of which a large issue has been made, and which, by the provisions of the act authorizing its
issue, is redeemable in United States currency."

When the bill was sent to the Senate it, in compliance with the memorial of the legislature
of the State of California, inserted in place of the French dollar, of 384 grains of standard
silver, a dollar containing 420 grains of standard silver, called the "trade dollar."  This
was urged upon the ground that, as the Mexican dollar contained 416 grains, or 3½ grains more
than the old silver dollar, it had an advantage in trade with China and Japan over our dollar,
and that a coin containing a few grains more than the Mexican dollar would give our people
the benefit of this use for silver.  This dollar was, in conference, agreed to by the House,
but was a legal tender for only five dollars.  On final action on that bill, the conferees
on the part of the Senate were Messrs. Sherman, Scott and Bayard.  The amendment of the Senate
adopting the trade dollar was agreed to by the House, and the bill passed in both Houses without
a division.

There never was a bill proposed in the Congress of the United States which was so publicly
and openly presented and agitated.  I know of no bill in my experience which was printed, as
this was, thirteen times, in order to invite attention to it.  I know no bill which was freer
than any immoral or wrong influence than this act of 1873.

During the pendency of this bill, the Senators and Representatives from the Pacific coast were
in favor of the single standard of gold alone.  This was repeatedly shown during the debates,
but now they complain that the silver dollar was demonetized, and that, though present, taking
the most active interest in the consideration of the bill, they did not observe that the silver
dollar was dropped from the coinage.  The public records are conclusive against this pretense.
Mr. Stewart, Senator from Nevada, and all the Senators from the Pacific coast, who took an
active part in the debate on the bill, must have known of the dropping of the silver dollar
from the coinage.  It appears from the "Congressional Record" that, on the 11th of February,
1874, Mr. Stewart said:

"I want the standard gold, and no paper money not redeemable in gold; no paper money the value
of which is not ascertained; no paper money that will organize a gold board to speculate in it."

Again, only a few days after this, on the 20th of February, when he was speaking in favor of
the resolution, instructing the committee on finance to report a bill providing for the convertibility
of treasury notes into gold coin of five per cent. bonds, he said:

"By this process we shall come to a specie basis, and when the laboring man receives a dollar
it will have the purchasing power of a dollar, and he will not be called upon to do what is
impossible for him or the producing classes to do, figure upon the exchanges, figure upon the
fluctuations, figure upon the gambling in New York; but he will know what his money is worth.
Gold is the universal standard of the world.  Everybody knows what a dollar in gold is worth."

To review the history of the act of 1873:  It was framed in the treasury department after a
thorough examination by experts, transmitted to both Houses of Congress, thoroughly examined
and debated during four consecutive sessions, with information called for by the House of Representatives,
printed thirteen times by order and broadly circulated, and many amendments were proposed,
but no material changes were made in the coinage clause from the beginning to the end of the
controversy.  It added the French dollar for a time, but that was superseded by the trade dollar,
and neither was made a legal tender but for five dollars.  It passed the Senate on the 10th
of January, 1871--36 yeas and 14 nays--every Senator from the Pacific coast voting for it.

It was introduced in the House of Representatives by Mr. Kelley, at the next session.  It was
debated, scrutinized, and passed unanimously, dropping the silver dollar, as directly stated
by Mr. Hooper.  It was reported, debated, amended, and passed by the Senate unanimously.  In
every stage of the bill, and every print, the dollar of 412½ grains was prohibited, and the
single gold standard recognized, proclaimed, and understood.  It was not until silver was a
cheaper dollar that anyone demanded it, and then it was to take advantage of a creditor.

It has always been within the power of Congress to correct this error, if error was made; but
Congress has refused over and over again to do it.  When the controversy arose, in 1878, on
the Bland bill, and the House of Representatives proposed the free coinage of silver, the Senate
rejected it after a deliberate contest, and substituted in place of it what is called the Bland-Allison
act, which required the purchase, by the government, of silver bullion at its market value,
and its coinage to a limited amount.  Every effort has been made, from that time to this, to
have the Congress of the United States pass a free coinage act.

If this is done, it will be to secure a cheaper dollar of less purchasing power, with the view
to enable debtors to pay debts, contracted on the basis of gold coin, with silver coins, worth,
with free coinage, less than one-half of gold coins.

In reviewing, at this distance of time, the legislation of 1873, in respect to the coinage
of silver, I am of the opinion that it was fortunate that the United States then dropped the
coinage of the old silver dollar.  No one then contemplated the enormous yield of silver from
the mines, and the resulting fall in the market value of silver, but, acting upon the experience
of the past, that a parity between silver and gold could not be maintained at any fixed value,
Congress adopted gold as the standard of value, and coined silver as a subsidiary coin, to
be received and maintained at a parity with gold, but only a legal tender for small sums. This
was the principle adopted in the act of 1853, when silver was more valuable than gold at the
legal ratio.  Silver was not then coined into dollars, because it was then worth more as bullion
than as coin.  It was needed for change, and, under the law of 1853, it was furnished in abundance.
Similar laws are now in force in all countries where gold is the sole standard.  Under these
laws, a larger amount of silver is employed as subsidiary coins than when the coinage of silver
was free.

The same condition of coinage now exists in the United States. While silver is reduced in market
value nearly one-half, silver coins are maintained at par with gold at the old ratio, by fiat
of the government.  It is true that the purchase of silver, under recent laws, involved a heavy
loss to the government, but the free coinage of silver, under the ratio of sixteen to one,
would exclude gold from our currency, detach the United States from the monetary standard of
all the chief commercial nations of the world, and change all existing contracts between individuals
and with the government.  In view of these results, certain to come from the free coinage of
silver, I am convinced that until some international arrangement can be made, the present system
of coinage should continue in force.  This has now became a political, or, rather a monetary
question, to be decided sooner or later, by popular opinion, at the polls.  This subject will
be further discussed at a later period, when efforts were made to adopt the free coinage of
silver at the old ratio.

Prior to the meeting of Congress in December, 1870, a controversy had arisen between Senator
Sumner and Secretary Fish, which created serious embarrassment, and I think had a very injurious
influence during that and succeeding sessions of Congress.  Mr. Sumner had long been chairman
of the committee on foreign relations, and no doubt exercised a domineering power in this branch
of the public service.  Mr. Fish and Mr. Sumner had differed widely in respect to the annexation
of San Domingo and certain diplomatic appointments and former treaties, among them the highly
important English negotiations for the settlement of claims growing out of the war. On these
topics the President and Mr. Sumner could not agree.  Mr. Sumner insisted that the hasty proclamation
by Great Britain of neutrality between the United States and the Southern Confederacy was the
gravamen of the Alabama claims.  The President and Mr. Fish contended that this proclamation
was an act of which we could not complain, except as an indication of an unfriendly spirit
by Great Britain, and that the true basis of the Alabama claims was that Great Britain, after
proclaiming neutrality, did not enforce it, but allowed her subjects to build cruisers, and
man, arm and use them, under cover of the rebel flag, to the destruction of our commercial navy.

This difference of opinion between the President and Mr. Sumner led to the removal of John
L. Motley, our minister to England, who sided with Sumner, and unquestionably intensified the
feeling that had arisen from the San Domingo treaty.

As to that treaty it was a conceded fact that before the President had become publicly committed
to it he had, waiving his official rank, sought the advice and counsel of Mr. Sumner, and was
evidently misled as to Mr. Sumner's views on this subject.  The subsequent debating, in both
open and executive session, led to Mr. Sumner's taking the most extreme and active opposition
to the treaty, in which he arraigned with great severity the conduct of the naval officers,
the Secretary of the Navy, Mr. Fish and the President. This was aggravated by alleged public
conversations with Mr. Sumner by "interviewers," in which the motives of the President and
others were impugned.

In the meantime, social relations between the Secretary of State and Mr. Sumner had become
impossible; and--considering human passion, prejudice and feeling--anything like frank and
confidential communication between the President and Mr. Sumner was out of the question.

A majority of the Republican Senators sided with the President.  We generally agreed that it
was a false-pretended neutrality, and not a too hasty proclamation of neutrality, that gave
us an unquestionable right to demand indemnity from Great Britain for the depredations of the
Alabama and other English cruisers.  And as for the San Domingo treaty, a large majority of
Republican Senators had voted for it--though I did not; and nearly all of us had voted for
the commission of inquiry of which Mr. Wade was the chief member.

When we met in March, it was known that both these important subjects would necessarily be
referred to the committee on foreign relations, and that, aside from the hostile personal relations
of Mr. Sumner and the Secretary of State, he did not, and could not, and would not, represent
the views of a majority of his Republican colleagues in the Senate, and that a majority of
his committee agreed with him.  Committees are and ought to be organized to represent the body,
giving a majority of the members to the prevailing opinion, but fairly representing the views
of the minority.  It has been the custom in the Senate to allow each party to choose its own
representatives in each committee, and in proportion to its numbers.

In the Republican conference the first question that arose was as to Mr. Sumner.  He was the
oldest Senator in consecutive service. He was eminent not only as a faithful representative
of Republican principles, but as especially qualified to be chairman of our foreign relations.
He had long held that position, and it was not usual in the Senate to change the committees,
but to follow the rule of seniority, placing Senators of the majority party in the order of
their coming into the Senate and those of the minority at the foot of the list.

In deciding Mr. Sumner's case, in view of the facts I have stated, two plans were urged;

First--To place him at the head of the new and important committee of privileges and elections,
leaving the rest of the committee on foreign relations to stand in the precise order it had
been, with one vacancy to be filled in harmony with the majority.

Second--To leave Mr. Sumner to stand in his old place as chairman, and to make a change in
the body of the committee by transferring one of its members to another committee, and fill
the vacancy by a Senator in harmony with the majority.

My own opinion was that the latter course was the most polite and just; but the majority decided,
after full consideration and debate, upon the first alternative.

Simon Cameron was next to Mr. Sumner on the list of Republican members of the committee, and,
by uniform usage, became its chairman.

This affair created feeling in the Senate which it is difficult now to realize, but it was
decided in a Republican caucus, in which there was an honest difference of opinion.  We foresaw,
whichever way it should be decided, that it would create--and it did create --bad feeling among
Senators, which existed as long as Mr. Sumner lived.  I think it proper to make this statement
of my own views at the time, though by the happening of great events this incident has almost
passed out of memory.

Mr. Sumner died in Washington, March 11, 1874.  He was distinguished for his literary attainments,
and his strong opposition to the institution of slavery and his severe arraignment of it. 
The brutal attack made upon him by Preston S. Brooks created profound sympathy for him.

I have purposely followed the legislation of Congress on financial questions until the passage
of the act of 1873, passing over other events in my personal history and that of President Grant.

It can hardly be said that we had a strictly Republican administration, during his two terms.
While Republicans were selected to fill the leading offices, the policy adopted and the controlling
influence around him were purely personal.  He consulted but few of the Senators or Members,
and they were known as his personal friends. Mr. Conkling, by his imperious will, soon gained
a strong influence over the President, and from this came feuds, jealousies and enmities, that
greatly weakened the Republican party and threatened its ascendency.  This was a period of
bitter accusations, extending from the President to almost everyone in public life.  During
the entire period of Grant's administration, I was chairman of the committee on finance of
the Senate, and had to act upon all questions of taxation, debt, banking or finance, and had
occasion to talk with the President upon such measures, but he rarely expressed any opinion
or took any interest in them.  His veto of the bill to increase the amount of United States
notes, on the 22nd of April, 1874, was an exception, but on this he changed his mind, as he
had expressed his approval of the bill when pending.  He was charged with being in a whisky
ring and with other offensive imputations, all of which were without the slightest foundation.
General Grant was, in every sense of the word, an honest man.  He was so honest that he did
not suspect others, and no doubt confided in, and was friendly with, those who abused his confidence.
It was a period of slander and scandal.

I did not escape the general crimination.  I usually met accusations with silence, as my accusers
were answered by others.  In March, 1871, the Cincinnati "Enquirer" contained the following
imputation:

"We are informed that a gentleman who lately filled a responsible office in this city, who
has recently returned from Washington, says that the Southern Railroad bill would have passed
the United States Senate if it had not, unfortunately, happened that Senator Sherman had no
direct pecuniary interest in it.  In these days, and with such Congresses, it takes grease
to oil the wheels of legislation."

On the 12th of March I wrote to the editors of the "Enquirer" the following note, after quoting
the editorial:

  "United States Senate Chamber,}
  "Washington, March 12, 1871.  }
"To the Editors of the 'Enquirer:'

"Gentlemen:--Some one, perhaps in your office, sends me the following editorial, cut from your
paper:

* * * * *

"All I can say in reply is that it contains a falsehood and a calumny.  I introduced the bill
for the Southern Railroad; am strongly in favor of it, and pressed it at every stage as rapidly
as the rules of the Senate and the strong opposition to it would allow.  This is known by every
Senator, and I am quite sure Judge Thurman and Mr. Davis would say so.  I alone took an active
interest in the bill, and at the very moment your editorial was received I was pressing a Republican
caucus to make it an exception to a resolution not to take up general legislation at this session.
Everyone familiar with our rules knew that it was the sheerest folly to try to pass the bill
on the last day of the session, especially as against our appropriation bills.  When it does
pass it will take days of debate, and will not receive support from any of your political associates,
who think Kentucky can block up all intercourse between the north and south.  Still I yielded
to the earnest desire of the trustees to try to get a vote, but failed to get the floor at
3 o'clock in the morning, the only moment it was possible to submit even the motion to take
it up.  The bill to abolish the duty of coal was taken up and was not acted on, nor would the
railroad bill, or any other contested bill, have passed at that stage of the session.

"As to the base imputation you attribute to 'a gentleman who lately filled a responsible office
in this city,' I can only say that, whether it originates with you or anyone else, it is utterly
false. Neither in this nor in any measure that has passed Congress, or is pending, have I had
any direct pecuniary interest.  I respectfully ask that you print this, and also the name of
the 'gentleman' you refer to.

"I intend, in the interests of the city of Cincinnati and of the whole country, to press the
Southern Railroad bill, and to secure its passage as soon as possible, but it is rather poor
encouragement to read such libels in a prominent paper in your city.

  "Yours etc.,
  "John Sherman."

This was followed by an article in the "Enquirer" embodied in my reply, as follows:

  "Washington, March 20, 1871.
"Gentlemen:--In your editorial in the 'Enquirer' of March 17, in
commenting on my card to you as to my action on the Cincinnati
Southern Railroad bill, you repeat my statement that 'neither in
this nor in any measure that has passed Congress, or is pending,
have I any pecuniary interest,' and you say:

'If this is true, he has certainly been a very badly slandered gentleman.  Somehow or other
there is a popular impression that Mr. Sherman has contrived to make his connection with politics
a highly lucrative business, and that he has exhibited, since he has been in Congress, a worldly
thrift that is remarkable.  There is a further impression that he is now a very rich man, whereas,
a few years ago, before he was in public affairs, his circumstances were decidedly moderate.
Perhaps our senatorial friend may not be aware of the existence of these derogatory reports,
and will thank us for giving him an opportunity, now that he knows of their existence, to disprove
them.'

"I have not been ignorant that there has been a studied effort-- ascribed by me to the common
tactics of political warfare--to create the impression, by vague innuendo, that I have used
my official position to make money for myself.  I know that this charge or imputation is without
the slightest foundation, and I now repeat that I never was pecuniarily interested in any question,
bill or matter before Congress; that I never received anything in money, or property, or promise,
directly or indirectly, for my vote or influence in Congress or in the departments; that I
have studiously avoided engaging in any business depending upon legislation in Congress.  The
only enterprise in which I ever engaged, which rests upon an act of Congress, is that in 1862,
after the bill passed authorizing the construction of a street railroad in this city, I, with
others, openly subscribed stock, and undertook to build it in pursuance of the act of Congress.

"From the position assigned me here, I have had to deal with great questions involving our
financial system of currency, taxes and debt, and I can appeal to all my associates in Congress,
to each of the eminent men with whom, as Secretaries of the Treasury, I have been intimate,
and to every man of the multitude with whom I have been brought into contact, to say whether
I have ever been influenced in my course by pecuniary interest.

"But you say that the impression is that I am a very rich man, whereas, before I was in public
affairs, my circumstances were decidedly moderate.  This allegation contains two gross exaggerations.
When I entered public life, I was largely engaged in my profession and other lucrative business.
If I had not engaged in politics, I might have been the rich man you suppose.  I am not this
day relatively richer, considering the changed value of property, than I was when I entered
the Senate.  Some time ago it was stated in your paper that I was worth millions.  A very small
fraction, indeed, of one million dollars will cover all I am worth.  My property consists mainly
of real estate, palpable to the eye, and the rest of it is chiefly in a railroad with which
I was connected before I entered public life.

"I have managed my business affairs with reasonable care, prudence, economy and success.  What
I have is the result of this.

"You kindly offer me an opportunity to disprove to you these reports. Well, how can I?  What
charge is made against me?  How can I fight shadows?  How can a man prove himself innocent
against an innuendo?

"But as you offer me the opportunity, I now invite Mr. Faran to come to my home at Mansfield,
and I will show him all I possess there, and render him a full account of all I have elsewhere,
and if I can't fairly account for it without being suspected of receiving bribes, or gifts,
or stealing, then he can repeat these baseless accusations with an easy conscience.

"You may ask why I have not met these derogatory reports before. Perhaps I ought, but I feel
the humiliation of such a controversy, and thought it time enough when a specific charge was
made.  And I am told by Mr. Hedges, my former law partner, that in my absence, last summer,
he corrected some gross misstatements in your paper about me, and that you refused or neglected
to publish it--even to notice it.  As, however, you now, in a courteous way, invite this letter,
I take great pleasure in accepting your offer.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Messrs. Faran & McLean, editors of the 'Enquirer.'"

I doubted the policy of my publishing such a letter, or of taking any notice of so indefinite
a charge, but the response from the press was fair, especially from the "Shield and Banner,"
a Democratic paper printed in Mansfield, as follows:

"We publish a letter of Hon. John Sherman to the editors the Cincinnati 'Enquirer.'  It is
hardly necessary that we should say that we have no sympathy with the political creed of John
Sherman. Between him and us there is a vast and wide difference; but we are not, we trust,
so much of the partisan that we cannot do justice to a neighbor, if that neighbor differs with
us.  We have known John Sherman, not only during all his public life, but from the time we
became a resident of Mansfield, now covering a period of thirty years, and we have always known
him as industrious, prudent and careful in his profession, and economical and thrifty in his
business.  We placed very little credence in the rumors that he was a man of immense wealth.
His property is mostly in real estate. He was fortunate in getting hold of very desirable property
in and around our city, and the advance in that has doubtless given him a competence; but it
is folly to charge him with being a millionaire. We have, in common with our neighbors, enjoyed
his hospitality, and his style of living is neither extravagant nor ostentatious.

"Mr. Sherman is one of our townsmen, and although all wrong as a politician and statesman,
and holding to a creed we utterly disapprove, he is a highminded and honorable man, and we
are bound to accept his statement about his pecuniary affairs as true."

I have often since been accused of the crime of "being rich," but as nearly all my possessions
are visible to the naked eye, and their history and acquisition are known to so many, I think
I am not required to prove that I have not made them as the result of legislation or my holding
public trusts.

My second term in the Senate expired on the 4th of March, 1873. The election of my successor
devolved upon the legislature that convened on the first Monday of January, 1872.

The canvass in Ohio, in the summer and fall of 1871, was an active and exciting one and attracted
great interest in other states. The result would indicate the strength or weakness of Grant's
administration.  I felt it was necessary, not only for my re- election, but for the success
of the Republican party, that every effort should be made to elect a Republican majority in
the legislature, and I, therefore, at the state convention and in most of the congressional
districts of Ohio, made earnest speeches in behalf of the state ticket and members of the legislature.
I received many letters of encouragement, one of which, from Senator Carpenter in reference
to my speech in the convention, I insert:

  "Washington, D. C., July 20, 1871.
"Hon. John Sherman.

"Dear Sir:--I have just read your speech to the state convention of Ohio.  It is splendid.
The only fault I have to find with it is, that you have covered the whole ground and reduced
us 'lesser lights' to the necessity of repeating and elaborating.  This is very mean of you;
you might have left some topic of the next campaign untouched, for us to dwell upon.  But you
have pre-empted everything and we must follow after.

  "Very truly yours,
  "Matt H. Carpenter."

The legislature was elected in October, 1871, but the majority for the Republicans was so small
that the election of a Republican Senator was in doubt.

I received many hearty letters of congratulation on our success in Ohio from my colleagues
in the Senate, among them one from Senator Conkling as follows:

  "Utica, N. Y., October 13, 1871.
"Hon. John Sherman, Mansfield, Ohio.

"My Dear Sir:--Having waited for certainties touching your election and the legislature, and
having watched the canvass with sincere solicitude, I congratulate you most heartily upon the
result.

"Your own speeches have been among the best you ever made, and your canvass has been full of
the pluck without which no canvass and no political contest is thorough or truthful.

"This state is ours unless the people are discouraged from voting in the country by the belief
that with Tammany to count, it matters not what majority rolls up above the Highlands.

"Notwithstanding the grievous statements of the 'Tribune' and inspired by the 'Tribune,' we
have done nothing harsh to the anti-administration minority, but the least and mildest thing
which would prevent a split in our organization with trouble for the future, and probably a
double delegation in the next national convention.

  "Yours sincerely,
  "Roscoe Conkling."

It was conceded that a decided majority of the Republican members of the legislature were in
favor of my re-election, but it was believed that an effort would be made by five Republican
members to combine with the Democratic members and thus secure the election of ex-Governor
Jacob D. Cox.

A Republican legislative caucus was convened on the evening of January 4th, to nominate a candidate.
The first and informal ballot gave me 61 votes to 14 scattering and the second ballot 71 votes
to 4 scattering.  This settled the matter unless the few dissenting votes could combine with
the solid Democratic vote upon some other candidate.  It was soon found that this attempt would
be abortive, as several Democrats, and especially those from Richland and Fairfield counties,
would vote for me it the choice came between Cox and myself.  Every effort was made by General
Ashley and the few others who were opposed to my nomination to combine upon anyone who could
defeat me.  They offered their support to Governor Hayes, but this was promptly refused by
him.  The same effort was made with Governor Dennison, General Garfield and General Schenck,
and failed.

The joint convention for the election of a Senator was held on the second Tuesday of January.
It was an open meeting.  The voting was soon over on roll call, and the result was as follows:
Sherman 73; Morgan 64; Cox 1; Schenck 1; Perry 1.  Thus I was elected by six majority over
all.  When this result was known five Democrats changed from Morgan to Cox, and others were
preparing to do so when Lieutenant Governor Mueller announced the result of the vote.  He was
an educated German of high standing, but his English was very imperfect.  His decision that
I, having received a majority of the votes cast, was duly elected, was clearly right, and this
was conceded, but his imperfect English created great noise and merriment. It was printed in
the "Ohio Statesman," on the same day, as follows:

"John Sherman, having received seventy-three votes for President in Congress [laughter], I
mean for Senator in Congress, which being a majority over all them others, I declares John
Sherman duly elected Senator in Congress from Ohio."

If the changing of the minority vote had proceeded, some of the Democratic votes would have
been cast for me, and my majority would have been increased, but I preferred the election as
it occurred. My election for the third term was after a hot political contest, but it left
no wounds unhealed.  Most of the gentlemen opposed to me became afterwards my warm friends.

In July, 1872, two months after the close of the session of Congress, I received the following
letter from Thomas A. Scott, President of the Texas and Pacific Railroad Company:

  "Philadelphia, July 19, 1872.
"Hon. John Sherman, Mansfield, Ohio.

"My Dear Sir:--A few gentlemen connected with the Texas and Pacific road, and myself, propose
to go to the Pacific coast, leaving Philadelphia about the 12th to the 15th of August.

"If your engagements will permit, I shall be very glad indeed to have you go with us.

"I am going from San Francisco to San Diego, and shall return by way of San Francisco; the
trip will occupy about thirty days.

"Please let me hear from you, and, if possible, let me have the pleasure of your company.

  "Very truly yours,
  "Thomas A. Scott, President."

I accepted the invitation, and with a very agreeable party of ladies and gentlemen, among whom
were Mr. W. T. Walters, of Baltimore, and his daughter, made my first voyage to the Pacific
coast.  Mr. Scott, as president of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, had command, by courtesy,
of every convenience of travel.  We had a dining car which we could attach to any train, with
ample room for beds, and a full supply of provisions.  The journey to San Francisco was broken
by several stops on the way at places that we thought interesting.

Great changes had occurred in the brief period since my trip in an ambulance with General Sherman.
The Indians and buffaloes had disappeared from the plains, the former placed on reservations
distant from the railroad, and the latter by gradual extinction. When we crossed the Laramie
plains I was in, to me, a "terra incognita."  The great basin of Salt Lake, with the varied
and picturesque scenery to the east and west of it, attracted our attention, but the want of
water, the dry air, the dust and the absence of tress and vegetation of any kind, condemn all
that country to waste and desolation, except in a few places where irrigation can be had. 
The Nevada range of mountains was crossed at night, but we were to explore them on our return.
When the broad valley of the Sacramento opened to our view, we could hardly express our delight.
Here, indeed, was the land of gold, with its clear air, its grand mountains, its rich plains.

Aside from the wonderful variety of its scenery, the history of California has always excited
poetic interest--its long settlement by mixed races living in quiet peaceful harmony, mainly
as herdsmen and shepherds, suddenly disturbed and conquered without firing a gun, by an aggressive
race who soon revolutionized the habits of the natives, and planted a new civilization, with
all the bad as well as the good elements of our race.  Then the discovery of gold, immediately
following the conquest of California, drew to it, from all parts of the United States, the
most restless and adventurous of our population, some of the worst and many of the best.  The
rapid admixture of these diverse elements threatened for a time hostile conflicts, in which
criminals, under cover of law, committed murder and other crimes, and peaceful, law-abiding
citizens were compelled to appeal to force and mob law to preserve civilization.

The railway soon brought us through Sacramento to San Francisco, where we remained several
days.  We were kindly received and entertained.  The enterprise of Scott was not then favored
in San Francisco, but this did not prevent our hearty welcome.  Here I met Mr. Hollister, whom
I had known in Ohio.  He was the great shepherd of California.  I was informed that he owned
100,000 sheep, divided into flocks of about 3,000 each.  These flocks were wintered at a large
ranch near the Pacific coast belonging to him.  The climate was mild, and the sheep could live
without shelter during the winter.  The flocks would start eastwardly over the great valley,
each flock cared for by a shepherd, a boy and a dog, feeding in the open country, some of the
flocks reaching the Mariposa valley, one hundred miles away.  When the grass failed they were
turned to the west to their home.  Whether this tale is an exaggeration I cannot say, but certain
it is that at that time sheep raising and the production of wool was one of the chief industries
of California.  Hollister was also interested in woolen manufacture, especially of blankets,
equal to any in the world.  When I knew him in Ohio, he and his brother were the owners, by
inheritance, of a large and valuable farm in Licking county.  When gold was discovered in California,
Hollister sold to his brother one-half of the farm, and with the proceeds purchased a large
flock of the best Ohio sheep, and drove them to California, taking two years for the journey.
He was fond of telling his adventures, and proud of his success.  He died a few years since
in California, but whether his good fortune followed him to the close of his life I do not
know.  He was very kind to our party and accompanied us to San Diego.

From San Francisco we made a trip to the Mariposa Grove, and the Yosemite valley.  We traveled
by rail to a small station nearest the grove.  Then by stage we rode to the terminus of the
line. From there we went but a short distance to the grove.  This majestic survivor of the
forest has been so often been described that details are not necessary.  We measured the trees,
and rode on horseback nearly one hundred feet through one of the fallen monsters.  We also
attempted to form a ring with hands and arms extended around one of these trees, but our party
was not numerous enough to encircle it.  I felt a sense of insignificance when I realized the
long life of some of these trees, estimated to span forty generations of men, and still in
health and strength.  We returned to the stage station and again mounted our horses and mules
for the perilous adventure of a descent into the Yosemite valley.  It so happened that Mr.
Bell, the keeper of the station, was a former resident of Bellville, in Richland county, Ohio,
in which I live.  He knew me well, and his wife I knew as the daughter of a leading farmer
of that county. I thought I might utilize this acquaintance by asking him to see that I was
well mounted to descend to the valley.  Much to my surprise a spirited horse, well accoutered,
was brought out for Colonel Scott, and a shaggy short-legged mule, with a California saddle
and a common but stout bridle, was brought out for me.  I felt that Bell had disregarded the
obligation of "auld acquaintance," but said nothing.

My mount started at the heels of the cavalcade in a steady walk, but I noticed he was sure-footed,
and that, at the end of two or three weary hours, he had passed most of the party and soon
after was close in the wake of Colonel Scott.  In the meantime, I had noticed that I was the
subject of merriment.  My feet were in close proximity to the ground.  The length of my legs
was out of proportion to that of the legs of the mule.  When we came to descend the mountain,
however, at an angle of nearly forty-five degrees, on a very narrow path, I found that my mule
could turn the bends of the track, and, by a peculiar gathering of his feet, could slide down
difficult places, while Colonel Scott, on his already jaded horse, was troubled and worried.
He dismounted when the path widened and asked me to go ahead.  He then followed me, leading
his horse. After that, I made up my mind that my Richland county friend had not failed me in
my hour of need.

As for the scenery through which we were passing, no language could describe it.  We saw, four
thousand feet below, a beautiful little valley about half a mile wide at the widest part, with
what appeared to be a very small stream dancing along from side to side of the valley, and
surrounded by precipitous mountains in every direction. The eye and mind can now vividly recall
the picture of the scenes than around me.  My mule had my confidence, but I feared lest some
fatal mishap might befall some of my companions, and especially I feared for a lady who ventured
the journey, but she fortunately displayed pluck and coolness, and at the end of the day we
all arrived at the hut in the valley safe and sound, but very weary. Since that time, I understand
that a good road has been made up the valley, by which tourists can enjoy the grandest scenery
in nature, without the risk we took.

We enjoyed a hearty supper of plain food, and a sound sleep on corn- husk mattresses.  The
next day we explored the valley, and enjoyed the changing views of near and distant mountains.
These have often been described, but they can only be appreciated by a personal visit.  We
left the valley by another route to the north, and reached the railroad by a different line
of stages.

Returning to San Francisco, we took the boat for San Diego, stopping, on the way, at Santa
Barbara and San Pedro.  From this place we drove to Los Angeles, then a typical Mexican town
of great interest. The good people hoped for the railroad, but Colonel Scott expected the road
of which he was president would be able to reach San Diego.

Our arrival at San Diego was an event of interest to the few people of that town.  We inspected
the remarkable harbor and the surrounding country.  It was apparently a good site for a great
city.  Fresh water was the great want and rain-falls were rare, but it was claimed that an
ample supply of water could be had from the hills. The real obstacle to that site, as a terminus
for the railroad, was the mountains east of San Diego, which, upon a survey, were found to
be extremely difficult, and this turned the route to Los Angeles, over natural passes and through
the beautiful region of San Bernardino.

We returned, by boat, to San Francisco, and soon after turned our way eastward.  We stopped
at Reno, and went by rail to Carson City, the capital of Nevada.  It was then an embryo town.
From there we went to Lake Tahoe, one of the finest bodies of water on the earth. Its clear,
cold waters filled a natural basin in the midst of the Nevada range of mountains, which was
supplied by the melting snows. We then returned to Carson City, ascended, by rail, an inclined
plane of high grade, to Virginia City.  Most of the party descended into the mines, but I was
prevented from doing so by an attack of neuralgia, a complaint from which I never suffered
before or since, caused, as it was said, by the high altitude and thin air.  Here I met several
natives of Ohio, who had sought their fortunes in the far west.  They were very kind to the
party and to myself.  It got to be a common remark, that Ohio has everything good in the west.
I could answer that they all seemed to deserve what they had.  I was disposed to be proud of
them and of my native state, but soon after, on the way east, we heard of an atrocious murder
committed by two Ohio men.  This turned the tables on my native state, and I was compelled
to confess that bad men came from Ohio as well as from other states; but, if so, Ohio people
excelled in the atrocity of their crimes as well as in the excellence of their merits!

Our next stopping place was at Salt Lake City.  Whatever opinion we may have of the religious
creed and dogmas of the Mormons, we cannot deny the industry and courage of that sect in building
up a city in a wilderness where natural conditions seemed to forbid all hope of success in
such an enterprise.  And yet there it was, a well-ordered city laid out with squares, avenues,
streets, and reservations for schools, churches and other public uses, with water introduced
in great abundance.  All the needs of city life were provided, such as stores, markets and
shops.  We were invited by the delegate to Congress, from Utah, to call on Brigham Young, and
did so.  He was a large, well-built man, then about sixty years old.  He took great interest
in the enterprise of Colonel Scott and seemed familiar with all the railways built or projected
in the western country.  There was nothing in his conversation or manner that indicated the
"crank," nor did he exhibit any of the signs of a zealot or fanatic.  He made no allusions
to his creed or the habits of his followers and betrayed no egotism or pride. He has died since
but the organization he left behind him is still in existence, and the Mormon faith is still
the creed and guide of the great body of those who followed Brigham Young into the wilderness,
and of their numerous descendants.  It is to be hoped that the government and people of the
United States will let the Mormons severely alone, allowing them to believe what they will,
and to do in the way of worship what they choose.  In this way only can their confidence in
alleged revelations be shaken, and Mormonism will disappear among the many vain attempts of
humanity to explore the mysteries of life and death.  Persecution never weakens delusions,
nor disturbs faith, however ignorant and groundless.

From Salt Lake our party went to Cheyenne and thence to Denver. This city was growing rapidly
and was plainly destined to be the principal center of the mineral development of several states.
I had, on a previous trip, visited the interesting region of the "Garden of the Gods," Colorado
Springs and Pike's Peak.  Our party left Denver for home.  On the long stretch via Kansas City,
St. Louis and Indianapolis we saw nothing new, as we were traveling over familiar ground. 
It was early in September, when corn, the great western staple, was approaching maturity, and
the earth was giving forth its increase.  We were crossing the largest and perhaps most fertile
valley of the world.  All of it had been redeemed from nature and the Indians, within one hundred
years.  During our trip we had passed through great cities, prosperous towns and amidst wonderful
scenery.  All of the route except through the Yosemite valley was passed over in a palace car.
The ocean voyage was in a steamboat even more luxurious then the palace car.  All this rapid
development did not satisfy the desire of Colonel Scott and Mr. Walters.  Their minds were
occupied with vast railroad projects, some of which were accomplished before their death. 
I also had my dreams but they related to public policies rather than internal improvements
and some of these have been realized.

I was awakened one bright morning in September and told that the car was in Ohio.  This was
enough to drive sleep from my eyelids. I looked out upon the rich lands of the Miami valley,
the comfortable homesteads on every farm, the fat cattle and herds of sheep, the broad fields
of yellow corn, and every sign of fertility.  All these, and perhaps a little admixture of
state pride, led me to say that, after all, the people of Ohio need not go beyond the bounds
of that state with any hope to improve their condition or to secure a better opportunity for
a happy life.  I soon parted with my friends with sincere regrets, for in our journeyings we
were in truth a happy family.

The canvass in Ohio was then progressing for the election of a President and Members of Congress,
in which I was expected, as usual, to take a part.  The strange anomaly of Horace Greeley running
on a Democratic ticket was enough in itself to excite opposition, especially in the southern
states.  The result was that General Grant, in November, 1872, was elected President by 31
states with 286 electoral votes.  Greeley died after the election, and before the electors
voted, so that no electoral vote was counted for him.  If he had lived he would probably have
received 60 electoral votes.

During the first four years of General Grant's administration the financial condition of the
United States was eminently prosperous. The total reduction of the national debt, from the
1st of March, 1869, to the 1st of November, 1873, was $383,629,783, the annual saving of interest
resulting therefrom being $27,432,932.  During this period the value of United States notes
compared with coin steadily increased.  The funding of the six per cent. bonds into five per
cent. bonds, under the refunding act, continued at the rate of about $85,000,000 a year.  The
credit of the United States steadily advanced during this period, so that the Secretary of
the Treasury, in his report of 1873, stated that it had not stood higher since the close of
the Rebellion than it did at that time.  This improvement of the public credit was accompanied
with a large reduction of internal taxes and duties on imported goods.  The business of the
country was prosperous, the increase and extension of railroads and the development of new
industries was marked, indicating great prosperity.

All this was subsequently changed by the happening of a panic in September, 1873.  The cause
of this was attributed to over-trading, to the expansion of credits, and to rash investment
made in advance of public needs.  This panic commenced by the failure of Jay Cooke & Co., of
Philadelphia, an enterprising firm of high standing, then engaged in selling the bonds of the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company.  I was engaged at that time, with a committee of the Senate,
of which William Windom was chairman, in examining many plans of public improvements, especially
in the increase of facilities for water transportation at the mouth of the Mississippi river,
and at the great lakes on our northern boundary, improvements since then made with great benefit
to the commerce of the United States. Roscoe Conkling, of New York, was a member of that committee.
We were at Buffalo when the failure of Cooke & Co. was announced.  We all felt that for the
present, at least, our duties as a committee were at an end.  The panic spread so that in a
month all industries were in a measure suspended.  The wildest schemes for relief were proposed,
in and out of Congress.  The panic spread to the banks, which were compelled in self-defense
to call in their loans, to withhold their circulating notes, and contract their business. 
As usual on the happening of such a panic, an appeal was made to the treasury for relief, a
demand was made for an increase in the volume of the United States notes, and that the Secretary
of the Treasury should use the money of the government to buy exchange.

The New York Produce Exchange applied to the Secretary of the Treasury on the 29th of September,
1873, in resolutions, as follows:

"Whereas, The critical condition of the commercial interests of the country requires immediate
relief by the removal of the block in negotiating foreign exchange; therefore be it

"Resolved, That we respectfully suggest to the Secretary of the Treasury the following plans
for relief in this extraordinary emergency:

"First, That currency be immediately issued to banks or bankers, upon satisfactory evidence
that gold has been placed upon special deposit in the Bank of England, by their correspondents
in London, to the credit of the United States, to be used solely in purchasing commercial bills
of exchange.

"Second, That the President of the United States and the Secretary of the Treasury are respectfully
requested to order the immediate prepayment of the outstanding loan of the United States due
January 1, 1874."

This request had, as a matter of course, to be denied.  But the secretary did purchase $13,000,000
of bonds for the sinking fund, to the full extent the condition of the treasury allowed.  It
is difficult to realize or to convey by description the wild ideas developed by such a panic.
The government for the time being is expected to provide a remedy for a condition it did not
create, but, instead of aiding, the government is most likely to need aid. The revenues from
importations fell off and the value of United States notes declined.

When Congress convened in December, 1873, the wildest schemes for relief to the people were
proposed.  A large increase of United States notes was demanded.  More than sixty bills, resolutions
and propositions were introduced in the Senate in respect to the currency, the public debt
and national banks, all bearing upon the financial condition of the country, expressing every
variety of opinion, from immediate coin payments to the wildest inflation of irredeemable paper
money.  All these were referred to the committee on finance, then composed as follows:  Messrs.
Sherman (chairman), Morrill, of Vermont, Scott, Wright, Ferry, of Michigan, Fenton and Bayard.

The several measures referred to the committee were taken up and considered, but the same wide
divergence of opinion was developed in the committee as existed outside of Congress among the
people.

Mr. Ferry, of Michigan, a member of the committee, offered the following substitute for the
pending resolution:

"That the committee on finance is directed to report to the Senate, at as early a day as practicable,
such measures as will restore commercial confidence and give stability and elasticity to the
circulating medium through a moderate increase of currency."

Upon these adverse propositions a long debate followed without practical results.  I made a
long speech on the 16th day of January, 1874, in favor of the resolution of the committee.
I then said:

"At the outset of my remarks I wish to state some general propositions established by experience,
and the concurring opinions of all writers on political economy.  They may not be disputed,
but are constantly overlooked.  They ought to be ever present in this discussion as axioms,
the truth of which has been so often proven that proof is no longer requisite.

"The most obvious of these axioms, which lies at the foundation of the argument I wish to make
to-day, is that a specie standard is the best and the only true standard of all values, recognized
as such by all civilized nations of our generation, and established as such by the experience
of all commercial nations that have existed from the earliest period of recorded time.  While
the United States, as well as all other nations, have for a time, under the pressure of war
or other calamity, been driven to establish other standards of value, yet they have all been
impelled to return to the true standard; and even while other standards of value have been
legalized for the time, specie has measured their value as it now measures the value of our
legal tender notes.

"This axiom is as immutable as the law of gravitation or the laws of the planetary system,
and every device to evade it or avoid it has, by its failure, only demonstrated the universal
law that specie measures all values as certainly as the surface of the ocean measures the level
of the earth.

"It is idle for us to try to discuss with intelligence the currency question until we are impressed
with the truth, the universality, and the immutability, of this axiom.  Many of the crude ideas
now advanced spring from ignoring it.  The most ingenious sophistries are answered by it. 
It is the governing principle of finance.  It is proved by experience, is stated clearly by
every leading writer on political economy, and is now here, in our own country, proving its
truth by measuring daily the value of our currency and of all we have or produce.  I might,
to establish this axiom, repeat the history of finance, from the shekels of silver, 'current
money with the merchant,' paid by Abraham, to the last sale of stock in New York.  I might
quote Aristotle and Pliny, as well as all the writers on political economy of our own time,
and trace the failure of the innumerable efforts to establish some other standard of value,
from the oxen that measured the value of the armor of Homeric heroes to the beautifully engraved
promise of our day; but this would only be the hundred-times-told tale which every student
may find recorded, not only in schoolbooks, but in the writings of Humboldt, Chevalier, Adam
Smith, and others of the most advanced scientific authorities. They all recognize the precious
metals as the universal standard of value.  Neither governments, nor parliaments, nor congresses
can change this law.  It defies every form of authority, but silently and surely asserts itself
as a law of necessity, beyond the jurisdiction of municipal law.

* * * * *

"Of late years much difficulty has grown out of the slightly varying value of silver and gold,
as compared with each other, and the tendency of opinion has been to adopt gold alone as the
standard of value.  The United States has twice changed the relative value of these metals,
and other modern nations have been driven to similar expedients.  At the Paris monetary conference,
held in 1867, which I had the honor to attend, the delegates of twenty nations represented
agreed to recommend gold alone as the standard of value.  The United States, and nearly all
the commercial nations, have adopted this standard, and reduced the use of silver to a mere
token coinage of less intrinsic value than gold, but maintained at par with gold by the right
to be converted into gold at the will of the holder.  So that for all practical purposes we
may regard gold as the only true standard, the true money of the world, by which the value
of all property, of all productions, of all credits, and of every medium of exchange, and especially
of all paper money, is tested.

"Specie, in former times, was not only the universal standard of value, but it was the general
medium of all exchanges.  In modern times this is greatly changed.  Specie is still the universal
standard of value, but it has ceased to be even the usual medium of exchange.  The failure
to distinguish between the standard of value and the medium of exchanges occasions many of
the errors into which so many fall, and nearly every Senator who has spoken on one side of
the question has fallen into this error.  Specie has lost a portion of its sovereign power,
for with the enormous increase of exchanges it was found that, valuable as it is, it is too
heavy to transport from place to place as a medium of exchange.  The perils of the sea, the
dangers of theft and robbery, led to devices to substitute promises to pay gold in place of
the actual gold.

* * * * *

"Mr. president, thus far my remarks are founded upon the experience of ages, applicable to
all countries and to all commercial nations of our time.  I present them now as axioms of universal
recognition. And yet I have heard these axioms denounced in this debate as 'platitudes,' useless
for this discussion in the Senate of the United States.  The wisdom of ages, the experience
of three thousand years, the writings of political economists, are whistled down the wind as
if we in the Senate were wiser than all who have reasoned and thought and legislated upon financial
problems--that all this accumulated wisdom consists of 'platitudes' unworthy to influence an
American Senate in the consideration of the affairs of our day and generation.

"Sir, I do not think so.  If we disregard these 'platitudes,' we only demonstrate our own ignorance
and punish our constituents with evils that we ought to avoid.  I purpose now to pursue the
argument further, and to prove that we are bound, both by public faith and good policy, to
bring our currency to the gold standard; that such a result was provided for by the financial
policy adopted when the currency was authorized; that a departure from this policy was adopted
after the war was over, and after the necessity for a depreciated currency ceased; and that
we have only to restore the old policy to bring us safely, surely, and easily to a specie standard.

* * * * *

"On the day we made that promise, the 18th of March, 1869, the greenbacks, the notes of the
United States, were worth 75¾ cents in gold; or in other words, gold was at a premium of thirty-two
per cent. . . . What was the result?  After you enacted that law-- the faith of the people
of the United States that you would redeem this pledge--the value of your greenbacks advanced,
not rapidly, but gradually, and in one year, to within twelve per cent. of par in gold.

* * * * *

"Mr. president, we see, then, the effect of this promise.  And I here come to what I regard
as a painful feature to discuss--how have we redeemed our promise?  It was Congress that made
it, in obedience to the public voice; and no act of Congress ever met with a more hearty and
generous approbation.  But I say to you, with sorrow, that Congress has done no single act
the tendency of which has been to advance the value of these notes to a gold standard; and
I shall make that clearer before I get through.  Congress made this promise five years ago.
The people believed it and business men believed it.  Four years have passed away since then,
and your dollar in greenbacks is worth no more to-day than it was on the 18th of March, 1870;
and no act of yours has even tended to advance the value of that greenback to par in gold,
while every affirmative act of yours since that time has tended to depreciate its value and
to violate your promise.

* * * * *

"Every bond that was issued was issued only upon the sacred pledge contained in this act, that
the interest of that bond should be paid in coin; and the principal should be paid, when due,
in coin. The fifth section of the act provides that all duties on imported goods shall be paid
in coin; and that this money shall be set aside as a special fund to pay the interest on the
bonded debt in coin. Then, in order to secure the greenbacks, it authorized any holder of greenbacks
to pay any government debt with them; it authorized the holder of greenbacks to pay any debt,
public or private, with them; and every citizen of the United States was bound to take them.
Then it authorized them to be converted into six per cent. bonds of the United States--those
bonds payable, principal and interest, in gold.  If the policy provided for by this act had
been maintained, we would long since have been at specie payments, without any serious disturbance
of our monetary affairs.

* * * * *

"Now, Mr. president, I come to show the Senate how this provision, the convertible clause of
the act of February 25, 1862, was repealed. On the 3rd of March, 1863, Congress passed 'An
act to provide ways and means for the support of the government.'  This act was passed during
the dark hours of the war.  The currency of the country did not flow into the treasury rapidly
enough to pay our army.  I remember that at about the time this act was passed there were very
large unpaid requisitions.  The Secretary of the Treasury, instead of issuing any more six
per cent. bonds, desired to float a 10-40 five per cent. bond; in other words, to reduce the
burden of interest upon the public debt.  At this time there were three hundred millions of
circulation outstanding, and with all the rights, and all the privileges, conferred upon the
greenbacks, they did not flow into the treasury fast enough to furnish means to carry on the
operations of the war.

* * * * *

"In other words, the suspension of this convertibility clause was passed with a view to promote
conversion; to encourage conversion; to induce conversion; and, if possible, to induce a conversion
into a five per cent. gold bond instead of into a six per cent. bond. When the Secretary of
the Treasury presented this view to Congress he was at once met with the pledge of the public
faith; with the promise printed upon the back of the greenbacks that they could be converted
into six per cent. bonds at the pleasure of the holder; and that we could not take away that
right.  This difficulty was met by the ingenuity of the then Senator from Vermont (Mr. Collamer).
He said that no man ever exercised a right which could not properly be barred by a statute
of limitations; and if this right was injurious to the people of the United States, and prevented
the conversion of these notes into bonds, we might require the holder of these notes to convert
them within a given time; that we could give them a reasonable time within which they could
convert them into six per cent. bonds, and after that take away the right.

"The act of March 3, 1863, was amended by inserting this clause:

'And the holders of United States notes, issued under or by virtue of said acts, shall present
the same for the purpose of exchanging the same for bonds, as therein provided, on or before
the 1st day of July, 1863; and thereafter the right so to exchange the same shall cease and
determine.'

* * * * *

"Now, Mr. president, I have shown you that the greenbacks were based upon coin bonds; that
they had the right to be converted into coin bonds; that that right was taken away as to the
5-20 bonds; but that, in practice and in effect, the greenback was convertible into an interest-bearing
bond of the United States up to 1866, and until the passage of the law to which I will now refer.

* * * * *

"If this act had contained a simple provision restoring to the holder of the greenback the
right to convert his note into bonds there would have been no trouble.  Why should it not have
been done?  Simply because the then Secretary of the Treasury believed that the only way to
advance the greenbacks was by reducing the amount of them; that the only way to get back to
specie payments was by the system of contraction.  If the legal tender notes could have been
wedded to any form of gold bond by being made convertible into it, they would have been lifted,
by the gradual advance of our public credit, to par in gold, leaving the question of contraction
to depend upon the amount of notes needed for currency.  Sir, it was the separation of our
greenbacks from the funding system that created the difficulty we have upon our hands to-day;
and I say now that, in my judgment, the only true way to approach specie payments is to restore
this principle, and give to the holder of the greenback, who is your creditor, the same right
that you give to any other creditor.  If he has a note which you promised to pay and cannot,
and he desires interest on that note by surrendering it, why should you not give it to him?
No man can answer that. It is just as much a debt as any other portion of the debt of the United
States."

Finally, after more than three months study and debate, a majority of the committee agreed
upon a measure and directed me to report it to the Senate.  It fixed the maximum limit of the
United States notes at $382,000,000.  It provided for a gradual payment of these notes in coin
or in five per cent. bonds, at the option of the Secretary of the Treasury, from the 1st of
January, 1876.  It was entitled "An act to provide for the redemption and reissue of United
States notes and for free banking."

In obedience to the instructions of the committee, on the 23rd of March, 1874, I reported the
bill as an original measure, and said:

"It is due to the members of the committee on finance that I should say that the bill which
I have just reported, as it appears on its face, is in the nature of a compromise measure,
which is more or less acceptable all around, but at the same time there are certain features
of the bill which members of the committee on finance will feel at liberty to express their
opposition to, and also to propose amendments to.  It is due to them that I should make this
statement. The bill itself, as appears on its face, is the result of great labor, long consideration,
and the consequence of compromise.  In many cases we were not able, however, to reconcile conflicting
opinions; and on those points, of course, members of the committee will feel themselves at
liberty to oppose certain features of the bill."

Mr. Thurman said:

"I should like to inquire of my colleague whether he proposes to- day or to-morrow, when he
makes the motion that he indicated, to state what, in the opinion of the committee reporting
this bill, will be its practical effect, so that we may have the views of the committee as
to the workings of the bill should it become a law. I am sure I, for one, should like very
much to know what the committee, who have devoted so much time to this subject, think will
be the practical working of the measure, at any time that it suits the convenience of the chairman
of the committee to make such statement."

I replied:

"When the subject is introduced, if it be convenient, to-morrow, I propose to make a very brief
statement of the effect of each section, as we understand it; but I do not intend, by any long
speeches or any remarks, to prolong this matter unnecessarily.  I have expressed my own individual
views, and each member of the committee, I suppose, stands to the opinion expressed by him
in the speeches he has made in the Senate--speeches that were carefully considered, and by
which the position of each Senator was stated; but undoubtedly I shall feel it my duty, when
the bill is called up, to state what I regard as the actual practical effect of these different
propositions; and some of them, I will now say, I assented to with great reluctance."

On the next day the bill was taken up in the Senate, and I then stated the general provisions
of the bill.  I insert extracts from my speech, which indicate the difficulties we encountered:

"Mr. president, some complaint has been made in the Senate and in the country at the delay
in the presentation, by the committee on finance, of some bill covering the financial question;
but a moment's reflection will, I am sure, convince every Senator that there has been no fault
on the part of that committee.  From the beginning of the session to this hour that committee,
under the direction of the Senate, has been studying and discussing the various plans and propositions
which were referred to the committee; and I may say that over sixty different propositions,
either coming in the form of petitions or in the form of bills, have been sent to the committee,
all of these suggesting different plans and ideas.  It was impossible to consider all these
and to agree upon any comprehensive measures until within a day or two.

"There was another consideration.  The committee found itself divided in opinion, precisely
as the country is, and precisely as the Senate is, into as many as three different classes
of opinion. There were, first, those who desired to take a definite and positive step toward
the resumption of specie payments.  There were, second, those who desired an enlargement of
the currency, or what we commonly call an inflation of the currency.  There were, third, those
who, while willing to see the amount of bank notes increased and the question of the legal
tender settled in some form, were also desirous that some definite step should be taken toward
a specie standard. There were these differences of opinion.

"For the purpose of ascertaining the views of the Senate, and not involving ourselves in reporting
a bill that would be defeated as the bill of the last session was, we presented, early in the
session, resolutions of a general character which stated these three ideas: First, the resolution
of the majority of the committee that some definite step should be taken toward specie payments.
Then there was the amendment offered by the gentleman who now occupies the chair [Mr. Ferry,
of Michigan], that there ought to be an increase of the currency without reference to any plan
of redemption.  Third, there was the proposition made by the Senator from Delaware [Mr. Bayard],
that measures should be taken at once looking to the resumption of specie payments.

"These propositions were discussed, and the committee were enlightened by that discussion;
at least they obtained the opinions of Members of the Senate.  Subsequently, in the course
of our investigation, a question about the $25,000,000 section (section 6 of the act of July
12, 1870) came up, and the committee deemed it right, by a unanimous vote, to ascertain the
sense of the Senate as to whether they wished this section carried into execution.  As it stood
upon the statute book it was a law without force.  It was a law so expressed that the comptroller
said he could not execute it. Therefore the committee reported a bill which would have provided
the necessary details to carry into execution that section of the existing law.  But in the
present temper of the public mind, in the Senate and in the country, that bill was discussed,
and has been discussed day after day, without approaching the question at all.  During all
this time the committee have been pursuing their inquiries, and finally they have reported
the bill which is now before us.

"The measure that is reported is not a satisfactory one to any of us in all its details.  Probably
it is not such as the mind of any single Member of the Senate would propose.  It is in the
nature of a compromise bill, and therefore, while it has the strength of a compromise bill,
it has also the weakness of a compromise bill. There are ideas in it which, while meeting the
views of a majority, taken separately will be opposed by others.  I am quite sure I say nothing
new to the Senate when I say it does not in all respects meet my own views.  But there is a
necessity for us to yield some of our opinions.  We cannot reconcile or pass any measure that
will be satisfactory to the country unless we do so.  Any positive victory by either extreme
of this controversy will be an absolute injury to the business of the country.  Therefore,
any measure that is adopted ought to be so moderate, pursuing such a middle course, such a
middle ground, that it will give satisfaction to the country. It must be taken as a whole;
and therefore the effect of amending this proposition will be simply to destroy it.  If an
amendment in the direction of expansion is inserted, it will drive away some who would be willing
to support it as is.  If an amendment in the way of contraction is proposed and carried by
a majority of the Senate, it will drive away those who might be willing to take this measure
as a compromise.  The only question before the Senate now is, whether this is a fair compromise
between the ideas that have divided the people of this country and the Members of the Senate;
whether it will surely improve our currency while giving the relief that is hoped for by a
moderate increase of the currency.  Now I ask the secretary to read the first section of the bill."

I then continued:

"It is manifest to every Senator that the initial step in this controversy is to fix the aggregate
limit of United States notes. The United States notes, although they are very popular, and
justly so, in this country, are at this moment inconvertible; they are irredeemable, and they
are depreciated.  These are facts admitted on all hands.  In making that statement I do not
intend at all to deny that the United States notes have served a great and useful purpose;
and though I was here at the birth of them and advocated them in all stages of their history,
yet I am compelled to say at this moment, twelve years after their issue, that they are inconvertible;
they are irredeemable; and they are depreciated this day at the rate of twelve per cent.  They
have been legally inconvertible since July 1, 1863, and practically inconvertible since the
close of the war; that is, the government refuses to receive them, either in payment of customs
or in payment at par of any bond of the United States offered by it.  They are irredeemable
on their very face.  They have depreciated almost from the date of their issue, at one time
being worth only forty cents in gold, and to-day only worth ninety cents.  That is the condition
of the United States notes.

"Now, there is another thing admitted by all Senators.  I do not trespass on any disputed ground
when I say that every addition to the volume of these notes, while they thus stand depreciated,
irredeemable, and inconvertible, is as certain to further depreciate them, as it is that to
pour water into an overflowing bucket will cause it still more to overflow; as certain as the
law of gravitation; as certain as anything human or divine.  It is equally true that any contraction
of this currency, any withdrawal of the amount of it, is undoubtedly an appreciation of its
value, making it nearer and nearer to the standard of gold.

"This is so plain a proposition that it is not necessary to discuss it; and the whole people
of the country understand it; the plainest and simplest people understand it as well as the
wisest.  Those who desire to increase prices, to start and put in operation new enterprises,
desire an increase of the currency without any plan of redemption.  Those, on the other hand,
who want to get back to the specie standard, to appreciate the value of these notes, desire
to withdraw them, get them out of the way, or give new uses and new values to them so as to
advance them nearer and nearer the standard of gold.  Therefore it is that I say the very first
step at the outset of this controversy is to settle what is the legal limit of these notes;
how many are there now authorized by law; how many are there outstanding.  And here it is a
strange thing that on this very point, a purely legal question, the most important one in our
financial discussion, there is a great difference of opinion.  There ought not to be uncertainty
or room for a difference of opinion upon a question of this kind.  It ought to be settled.
On the one hand it is insisted by Senators who compose the majority of the committee on finance
that the legal limit of United States notes is $356,000,000; that the amount which has been
already issued, of what is known as the $44,000,000 reserve, was unlawfully issued, although
under great press of circumstances and without any intention on the part of the secretary to
do more than he thought he had a lawful right to do.  On the other hand it is insisted by other
Senators that the legal limit of United States notes is $400,000,000; and here is a margin
of $44,000,000 upon which there is a dispute of law as to the power of the secretary to issue
it.  That dispute ought to be settled at once.  It is a question that ought not to be in doubt
a moment, because the power to issue that $44,000,000 places it in the discretion of the Secretary
of the Treasury either to advance or to lower the value of all property in the United States,
of all debts in the United States, of everything that is measured by United States notes.

"Should we undertake to say that the secretary did wrong in exceeding the limit at $356,000,000?
A majority of the committee believe that that is now the legal limit, and believe it conscientiously.
But should be undertake to fix that as the legal limit?  Twenty- six million dollars of the
$44,000,000 are outstanding.  They are now issued; they are now a part of the currency of the
country. They are just as much the currency as that which was issued before. You cannot distinguish
between them.  You cannot say which of the $382,000,000 now outstanding is legal and which
is illegal.  So far as the United States are concerned, they are all debts of the United States
which we are bound to pay, whether they have been issued legally or illegally.  I do not understand
even my friend from Delaware to dispute the duty and obligation of the United States to pay
these notes, even if they have been illegally issued. There can be no question about it.  It
is impossible to distinguish between them.  The only question is whether our agent exceeded
his authority or not.  Therefore, without raising the question as to the legality of this issue,
reserving to each Senator his own opinion on the subject, we have adopted as the status quo
$382,000,000, the amount now outstanding; and we recognize that amount as the maximum legal
obligation of the United States in the form of notes, and we propose upon that basis to erect
our superstructure.  We therefore say that we will raise no question as to the mode of retiring
the $26,000,000; we will simply say that the amount now outstanding shall never be exceeded.
That is a recognition, at least, that they are outstanding lawfully and properly; at any rate,
so far as the obligation of the United States to pay them is concerned.

"Mr. president, a limit ought to be fixed.  But there is a difference of opinion as to what
should be the limit.  If I had the power to fix this limit I should say that the limit which
was fixed by the old law should remain at $356,000,000; and I would provide a mode and manner
of issuing United States bonds to retire the $26,000,000 slowly and gradually, without disturbing
the ordinary business of the country.  I would thereby seek to recover the ground we have lost
by what has occurred since the panic, and go back to the standard prior to that time.  But
I know that would be very difficult; that would involve an increase of the bonded debt.  Our
revenues are not sufficient to call in this $26,000,000.  We have no surplus revenue now as
we had a year or two ago.  We could only do it by the issue of bonds, and the process itself
would be a very hard one.  Besides, it is probable that public opinion and the judgment of
Congress would not sustain such a proposition; and therefore it is hardly worth while to recommend
it.  We assume, therefore, that the $382,000,000 is the present limit, and we say that shall
be the maximum limit.

* * * * *

"I said it was a compromise by the committee.  I speak of a majority of the committee.  As
a matter of course my friend is at liberty to dissent from any of its propositions.  On question
of this kind committees are very rarely unanimous; but I will say that on this point a very
decided majority of the committee concurred in the section.

"To the second section I wish to invite the careful and earnest attention of the Senate.  This
section is an honest effort to deal with the great problem of redemption.  Every Senator who
has spoken contemplates that a time must come when all the United States notes must be redeemed
in coin.  The public faith of the United States is so pledged.  The notes were issued with
the understanding that they should be paid in coin.  No man could survive politically in this
country who would declare that it was his purpose never to pay these notes in coin.  My friend
who now presides [Mr. Ferry, of Michigan], speaks always of his measure of inflation as a means
of bringing about at some time specie payments; and I will say that in the Senate I have not
heard any Senator deny that it is the duty of the United States at some time to pay these notes
in coin.  In all this discussion there is at least that one point agreed upon. If I state this
too strongly I hope I will be here corrected.

"Now, Mr. president, how shall it be done, and when shall it be done?  I say that now, nine
years after the close of our Civil War, twelve years after these notes have been authorized
and issued, five years after the dominant party has declared its purpose to pay them at the
earliest day practicable, there should be no longer delay.  The United States ought to do something
toward the fulfillment of that pledge and the performance of that duty.  There must be something
very peculiar in the condition of our country that will justify a longer delay; a longer procrastination
in the performance of this solemn pledge, this public policy--our own political obligation.

"Mr. president, this section is the result of the patient consideration of the committee on
finance as to how this result is to be brought about; and upon this very section there is most
likely to be a contrariety and difference of opinion among Senators, because the mode and manner
of redemption is the thing which has excited the public mind and upon which men all over the
country differ.  I wish, therefore, to deal with this question.  We have got to pay these notes
in coin.  The time when is not defined by the law. Are we prepared now to fix a day when we
will pay these notes in coin?  If the condition of our country was such as to justify it, I
would greatly prefer fixing the time when these notes should be paid in coin; but I am disposed
to agree with what has been stated by the Senator from Indiana, and by other Senators, that
in the present condition of our coinage, the present condition of our foreign trade, we are
not prepared to fix a definite day when we will pay in coin.  Why?  I find, by reference to
official documents, that we now have in gold and silver coin in this country about $140,000,000.
This statement of Dr. Linderman does not include the bullion on hand.  How much that is I am
not prepared to state. The whole amount of gold and silver coin in the country, however, is
about $140,000,000.  Some of that is in circulation in the Pacific states, but the bulk of
it is in the treasury of the United States, the property of individuals and the property of
the United States.  The total annual production of gold and silver in this country cannot be
estimated at over $70,000,000; and heretofore, at least $50,000,000 of this has been exported
over and above the amount that has been imported.  The balance of trade has been against us;
and although I do not regard that as entering much into the calculation, yet it is a fact that
until recently, perhaps, the balance of trade has been against us.  The annual coinage of the
United States for the last year or two has been largely increasing, and last year the coinage
of the United States was $38,689,183, besides stamping into fine bars, which operate as a kind
of coinage, of $27,517,000.  So that there has been in fact converted, of gold and silver,
into coin, or bars stamped by the United States, $66,000,000 during the last year, showing
a use and employment of gold in this country that is now rapidly increasing.

"But still this state of affairs would not justify us in saying that we are prepared to declare
a resumption of specie payments absolutely upon the basis of $800,000,000 of paper money, including
our fractional currency.  I am, therefore, not prepared to say that the United States can,
on a fixed day, within a reasonable time-- within such a time as would give confidence in our
ability to perform it--say that we will absolutely redeem our notes in coin.

"I know that Senators here, for whose opinion I have the highest respect, who are probably
more sanguine of our ability and capacity to do this than I am--many of those who have agreed
with me and co- operated with me--think we are able and strong enough to fix the time for the
absolute resumption of specie payments; but I have always doubted it.  Indeed I have thought
there was a better way to reach the great result.  But if we cannot fix the time when we will
redeem in coin, can we not give additional value to our United States noes, so as to gradually
appreciate them to the coin standard, and thus advance toward specie payments if we cannot
reach the goal?  Because we cannot accomplish all that we have agreed to do in a given time,
does that relieve us from the necessity of progressing in that direction?  When we have before
us a long journey that will take months to pass, perhaps years, shall we delay starting on
that journey because we cannot reach the end of it in a year or two?  Not at all.  I therefore
say that the time has arrived this moment when the United States ought to do something to advance
its notes to the specie standard.

"Now what is that something?  There are two propositions, and only two propositions, that have
been made, aside from absolute coin redemption, that have had any strength whatever.  One is
to allow the United States notes to be received in payment of customs duties, the other is
to allow United States notes to be converted into bonds.  In regard to the first, I agree entirely
that if the matter was open now to our choice and selection, one of the best methods we could
adopt to advance our notes to par in gold would be by repealing that restriction which prevents
the receiving of them for customs duties; but we are met there by the sacred pledge of the
United States; we are met there by the fact that customs duties are, by the law of 1862, agreed
to be collected in coin."

Mr. Bayard inquired:

"Does not the law provide that the customs duties shall be paid in coin or in notes of the
United States?  Is not the alternative given by the law?"

I replied:

"O, no.  If the Senator will look at section 5 of the act of February 25, 1862--my friend from
Vermont can turn to it in a moment--he will find that there is an express stipulation that
the customs duties shall be collected in coin, and that this coin shall be set aside as a pledge--legal
language is used--and shall only be applied, first, to the payment of the interest on the public
debt, and, secondly, to the establishment of a sinking fund of one per cent. That was the basis
of the obligation of the United States to pay in coin, and but for the fact that we collected
our customs duties in coin during the war we could not have paid the interest on our public
debt in coin, and therefore our bonds would have sunk out of sight.  That pledge we cannot
now violate; and I never have yet been able to bring my mind to the consideration of any proposition
whatever which would ever shock or excite the fear of the public creditors in that respect.
The safety of the public creditors consists in having a specific fund for the payment of their
interest; the principal will take care of itself; and that fund has always been maintained
in the darkest hours of the war.  Except the propositions that have been made here and there
to impair that fund by allowing a portion of the customs duties to be paid in currency, it
has never been either invaded or threatened; but all such propositions have been voted down.
I, therefore, while I see the policy and the expedience of allowing these notes to be used
in payment of customs duties, simply say we are precluded from that remedy because we have
mortgaged that fund, and we have no power to take them for any purpose except that which the
mortgage stipulates.

* * * * *

"We then come to the redemption in bonds.  There is the moral obligation, on the part of the
United States, which has issued its notes payable in coin, but for reasons of public policy
does not pay in coin, to give to its creditors its notes bearing interest in place of coin.
The United States cannot plead inability to pay interest on its notes if it will not or cannot
pay the principal. Why should not the United States give its obligation bearing interest just
as any individual would have to do?  There is a moral obligation which rests upon the United
States every day of the year to every holder of these notes, because, although the United States
has not said when it will redeem these notes in coin, yet it is bound to do what it can to
give them additional value.  Although it may not receive these notes for customs duties, why
can it not receive these notes in payment of bonds?  Why discriminate against these notes in
the sale of bonds?  The answer is, that during the war we were compelled to do it; and so we
were.  I very reluctantly yielded to that necessity.  We were compelled to do it; but, sir,
it was only expected that that would continue to the close of the war; and, practically, during
the whole of the war these notes were received at par for bonds at par.

"If, therefore, we are to take any step toward specie payments, why not give to the holder
of United States notes who demands it, a bond of the United States bearing a reasonable rate
of interest in exchange for his notes?  This should only be done after a reasonable time, so
as to prevent any injury to the private contracts between debtor and creditor.  When we cannot
pay the coin, we are honorably and sacredly bound to pay in a bond of the United States, which
in ordinary times would approximate to par in gold.  In other words, this is a qualified redemption.
The Senator from Indiana calls it a 'half-way measure.'  It is a half-way measure in the right
direction, and indeed it is practical specie payment."

The bill led to a long continuous debate which extended to the 6th of April, 1874.  Several
amendments were offered and adopted which enlarged the maximum of notes to $400,000,000, and
greatly weakened the bill as a measure of resumption of specie payments.  By reason of these
amendments many of those who would have supported the bill as introduced voted against it on
its passage, I among the number. The bill, however, passed the Senate by a vote of yeas 29
and nays 24.  This change of title indicates the radical change in the provisions of the bill.
Instead of a return to specie payments, it provided for an expansion of an irredeemable currency.

The bill, as it passed the Senate, was as follows:

"Be it enacted, etc.,, That the maximum amount of United States notes is hereby fixed at $400,000,000.

"Sec. 2.  That forty-six millions in notes for circulation, in addition to such circulation
now allowed by law, shall be issued to national banking associations now organized and which
may be organized hereafter, and such increased circulation shall be distributed among the several
states as provided in section 1 of the act entitled 'An act to provide for the redemption of
the three per cent. temporary loan certificates and for an increase of national bank notes,'
approved July 12, 1870.  And each national banking association, now organized or hereafter
to be organized, shall keep and maintain, as a part of its reserve required by law, one-fourth
part of the coin received by it as interest on bonds of the United States deposited as security
for circulating notes or government deposits; and that hereafter only one-fourth of the reserve
now prescribed by law for national banking associations shall consist of balances due to an
association available for the redemption of the circulating notes from associations in cities
of redemption, and upon which balances no interest shall be paid."

The bill was taken up in the House of Representatives on the 14th of April, 1874, and, without
any debate on its merits, was passed by the vote of 140 yeas and 102 nays.

On the 22nd of April, President Grant returned the bill to the Senate with his veto, and the
Senate, upon the question, "Shall the bill pass notwithstanding the objections of the President
of the United States," voted 34 yeas and 30 nays.  I voted nay.  The president of the Senate
declared "that two-thirds of the Senators present not having voted in the affirmative the Senate
refuses to pass the bill."

Thus, for that session, the struggle for resumption ended; but the debate in both Houses attracted
popular discussion, and tended in the right direction.  The evil effects of the stringency
in monetary affairs, the want of confidence, the reduction of the national revenue, the decline
of domestic productions, all these contributed to impress Congress with the imperative necessity
of providing some measure of relief.  Instead of inflation, of large issues of paper money
by the United States and the national banks, there grew up a conviction that the better policy
was to limit and reduce the volume of such money to an amount that could be maintained at par
with coin.

During the canvass that followed I spoke in many parts of Ohio, confining myself chiefly to
financial questions.  The stringency of the money market which occurred the preceding year
still continued, and great interest was manifested in the measures proposed during the preceding
session, especially in the defeat of the bill to prevent the contraction of the currency. 
At the request of General Garfield I spoke in Warren in his Congressional district, where he
met, for the first time, a decided opposition.  I insert his autograph letter, the original
being in his familiar hand writing:

  "Hiram, Ohio, September 25, 1874.
"Dear Senator:--In accordance with the arrangement which I made
with you and with the central committee, we have posted you for a
mass meeting at Warren, on Saturday afternoon, October 10.  I hope
I shall not embarrass you by suggesting that in your speech you
take occasion to say a few words in reference to my standing and
public service as a representative.  It will do much to counteract
the prejudice that a small knob of persistent assailants have
created against me.  I write also to inquire if you will be willing
to speak at another place the same evening.  If so, we are very
anxious to have you do so.  Please telegraph me to Garrettsville,
Ohio, and oblige,

  "Very truly yours,
  "J. A. Garfield."

When Congress met in December, 1874, the amount of United States notes outstanding was $382,000,000.
The fractional notes outstanding convertible into legal tenders amounted to $44,000,000, and
the amount of national bank notes redeemable in lawful money was $354,000,000, in all $780,000,000.
Each dollar was worth a fraction less than 89 cents in coin.  While these notes were at a discount
coin did not and could not circulate as money.  The government exacted coin for customs duties
and paid coin for interest on its bonds.  If there was an excess of coin received from customs
to pay interest then the excess was sold at a premium.  If the receipts from customs were insufficient
to pay the interest on bonds, the government had to buy the coin and pay the premium.  The
people who were demanding more money to relieve the stringency did not see that the best way
to get more money into circulation was to adopt measures that would make United States notes
and bank notes equal to coin, when all three forms of money would enter into circulation and
thus give them more money and all kinds of equal value.

While our paper money was depreciated the gold and silver bullion from our mines went abroad
and was converted into foreign coin, while a large portion and perhaps a majority of our people
demanded more paper money, which declined in value in exact proportion to its increase.  During
the war vast expenditures compelled us to use paper money; the return of peace and the excess
of revenue over expenditures should have been promptly followed by coin payments or notes payable
in coin.  We delayed this process so long that the popular mind rested content with depreciated
money, but the panic of 1873, and the feverish speculation which preceded it, convinced the
great body of our business men that there was no remedy for existing evils but a return to
specie payments.

Another bill concerning currency and free banking was reported by Horace Maynard, of Tennessee,
on the 29th of January, 1874, from the committee on banking and currency of the House of Representatives,
which provided for free banking and a gradual reduction and cancellation of United States notes
by the issue of notes payable in gold in two years from the passage of the bill.  This was
fully debated in the House of Representatives and amended and passed. In the Senate it was
reported by me from the committee on finance, with a substitute which provided for free banking
and that on and after the 1st of January, 1877, and holder of United States notes might present
them for payment either in coin or five per cent. bonds of the United States, at the suggestion
of the Secretary of the Treasury.  This substitute was amended in the Senate by striking out
all provisions for the redemption of United States notes, leaving the measure one for free
banking alone.  The House disagreed to the amendments and a committee of conference was appointed,
which resulted in a measure fixing the amount of United States notes outstanding at $382,000,000,
and making no provision for their redemption.  It was a crude and imperfect measure.  I voted
for it because it provided for a redistribution of national banks among the states.  I said:
"Because I cannot get a majority of both Houses of Congress to agree to specie resumption I
ought not therefore to refuse to vote for a bill on the subject of banking and currency." 
The bill was approved by the President on the 20th of June, 1874.  This long struggle prepared
the way for the result accomplished at the next session.

When Congress met in December, 1874, the feeling that the remedy for existing evils was the
return to specie payments, was general among Republican Senators and Members.  The abortive
efforts of the previous session and the veto of President Grant of one of the bills referred
to contributed to it.  At the first Republican conference I called attention to the necessity
of our uniting, if possible, on some measure that would advance United States notes to par
in coin and moved that a committee of eleven Senators be created to formulate a bill for that
purpose.  It was agreed to, and, as the names of the Senators composing the committee have
already been published, I feel justified in repeating them:  The committee consisted of Senators
John Sherman (chairman), William B. Allison, George S. Boutwell, Roscoe Conkling, George F.
Edmunds, Thomas W. Ferry, F. T. Freylinghuysen, Timothy O. Howe, John A. Logan, Oliver P. Morton,
and Aaron A. Sargent.

When the committee met it was agreed that each member should state how far he would go in the
direction of specie resumption.  When these statements were made it was manifest that the divergence
of opinion was so great that an agreement was almost impossible.  Yet, the necessity of an
agreement was so absolute that a failure to agree was a disruption of the Republican party.

The first section of the act to provide for the resumption of specie payments, which related
to the coinage and issue of fractional silver under the act of February 21, 1853, and the redemption
of an equal amount of fractional currency outstanding should be redeemed, and was readily agreed
to.  This fractional currency was so worn and filthy, and it cost so much to reissue, that
by general consent its destruction was agreed to, and its replacement by bright new silver
coin, which followed, was heartily welcomed.

The second section was an unjust concession to the miners of gold. It repealed the coinage
charge for converting standard gold bullion into coin.  This charge had been maintained, not
only to cover the cost of coining, but to prevent the exportation of American coins. If the
coins were of less value than the bullion of which they were made, however small the difference,
they would not be exported while bullion could be had for exportation.  The concession was
made and the charge for coinage of gold was prohibited.

The free banking provisions in the third section were not seriously contested.  The contraction
of the volume of United States notes as national bank notes increased, was one of the chief
subjects of disagreement.  It was finally agreed that this contraction should extend only to
the retirement of United States notes in excess of $300,000,000.

The most serious dispute was upon the question whether United States notes presented for redemption
and redeemed could be reissued.  On the one side it was urged that, being redeemed, they could
not be reissued without an express provision of law.  The inflationists, as all those who favored
United States notes as part of our permanent currency were called, refused to vote for the
bill if any such provision was inserted, while those who favored coin payments were equally
positive that they would vote for no bill that permitted notes once redeemed to be reissued.
This appeared to be the rock upon which the party in power was to split.  I had no doubt under
existing law, without any further provision, but that United States notes could be reissued.
It was finally agreed that no mention should be made by me for or against the reissue of notes,
and that I must not commit either side in presenting the bill.

The date for general resumption of specie payments on all United States notes was fixed on
the first of January, 1879, four years from the framing of this bill.  The important and closing
clause of the bill was referred to Mr. Edmunds and myself.  It provided the means to prepare
for and to maintain resumption.  It placed under the control of the Secretary of the Treasury
all the surplus revenue in the treasury, and gave him full power to issue, sell and dispose
of, at not less than par in coin, any of the bonds described in the refunding act.  We were
careful to select phraseology so comprehensive that all the resources and credit of the government
were pledged to redeem the notes of the United States, as fully and completely as our Revolutionary
fathers pledged to each other their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor, in support
of the declaration of American independence.

After every sentence and word of this bill had been carefully scrutinized, I was authorized
by every member of the committee to submit it to the committee on finance, and to report it
from that committee as the unanimous act of the Republican Senators.  We naturally expected
some support from Mr. Bayard and other Democratic Senators, who, no doubt, were in favor of
specie payments, but they perhaps thought it best not to share the risk of the measure.

I reported the bill from the committee on finance on the 21st of December, 1874, and gave notice
that on the next day I would call it up with a view to immediate action.  On the 22nd, after
the morning business, I moved to proceed to the consideration of the bill, and gave notice
that I intended to press it to its passage, from that hour forward, at the earliest moment
practicable.  It was well understood that the bill was the result of a Republican conference.
It was taken up by the decisive vote of 39 yeas to 18 nays.

It was not my purpose to do more than to present the provisions of the bill.  My brief statement
led to a desultory debate, participated in almost exclusively by Democratic Senators, the Republican
Senators remaining silent.  Several votes were taken, each showing a majority of more than
two-thirds in favor of the bill and against all amendments.  It passed the Senate without change
by the vote of 32 yeas to 14 nays.

I here insert the bill as introduced and passed, with my statement in support of its provisions:

  "AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE RESUMPTION OF SPECIE PAYMENTS.

"Sec. 2.

"Sec. 3.  That section five thousand one hundred and seventy-seven of the Revised Statutes,
limiting the aggregate amount of circulating notes of national banking associations, be, and
hereby is, repealed; and each existing banking association may increase its circulating notes
in accordance with existing law, without respect to said aggregate limit; and new banking associations
may be organized in accordance with existing law, without respect to said aggregate limit;
and the provisions of law for the withdrawal and redistribution of national bank currency among
the several states and territories are hereby repealed.  And whenever, and so often, as circulating
notes shall be issued to any such banking association, so increasing its capital or circulating
notes, or so newly organized as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury
to redeem the legal tender United States notes in excess only of three hundred millions of
dollars, to the amount of eighty per centum of the sum of national bank notes so issued to
any banking association as aforesaid, and to continue such redemption as such circulating notes
are issued until there shall be outstanding the sum of three hundred million dollars of such
legal tender United States notes, and no more.  And on and after the first day of January,
anno Domini eighteen hundred and seventy-nine, the Secretary of the Treasury shall redeem in
coin the United States legal tender notes then outstanding, on their presentation for redemption
at the office of the assistant treasurer of the United States in the city of New York, in sums
of not less than fifty dollars.  And to enable the Secretary of the Treasury to prepare and
provide for the redemption in this act authorized or required, he is authorized to use any
surplus revenues from time to time in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, and to issue,
sell, and dispose of, at not less than par in coin, either of the descriptions of bonds of
the United States described in the act of Congress approved July fourteenth, eighteen hundred
and seventy, entitled 'An act to authorize the refunding of the national debt,' with like qualities,
privileges, and exemptions, to the extent necessary to carry this act into full effect, and
to use the proceeds thereof for the purposes aforesaid. And all provisions of law inconsistent
with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed."

I said:

"Mr. president, I do not intend to reopen the debate on financial topics of last session. 
That debate was carried to such great length that it was not only exhaustive, but it was exhausting,
not only mentally but physically.  The Senate is composed of the same persons who shared in
that debate, and it is utterly idle for us, in this short session, to reopen it and to invite
the discussion of the various topics presented in that debate.  The Senate is now within less
than three months, a little more than two months, of its adjournment, and there is a general
feeling throughout the country, shared by all classes of people, that this Congress ought to
give some definite notice to the people of this country as to their purpose in the important
topics embraced in this bill; and I say to Senators on all sides of the House that this bill
contains enough to accomplish the important object declared by the title of the bill, and this
without reviving all the troublesome and difficult questions which were discussed at the last
session.  It contains a few simple propositions which may be separated from the mass of financial
topics discussed at the last session.  Its purpose is declared upon the title of the bill,
'An act to provide for the resumption of specie payments.'  Every word, every line, and every
provision, of this bill is in harmony with that title.  It will tend to promote the resumption
of specie payments.  It may fall short in many particulars of the desire of some Senators;
and it does go further in that direction than some Senators were willing to support at the
last session.  It is a bill which demands reasonable concession from every Member of the Senate.
If we undertake now to seek to carry out the individual views of any Senator, we cannot accomplish
the passage of any bill to promote this object, and therefore this bill has demanded of everyone
who has consented to it thus far a surrender of some portions of his opinions as to measures
and means to accomplish the great purpose.  I will consider my duty done, so far as this bill
is concerned, by simply stating its provisions and calling attention to the character of those
provisions, without entering into a single topic that gave rise to the long discussion at the
last session.

"The bill is intended to provide for the resumption of specie payments.  The first section
of the bill provides for the resumption of specie payments on the fractional currency.  It
is confined to that subject alone.  It so happens that at this particular period of time the
state of the money market, the state of the demand for silver bullion, and more especially
the recent action of the German Empire, which has demonetized silver and thus cheapened that
product, enables us now, without any loss of revenue, without any sacrifice, to enter the market
for the purchase of bullion and resume specie payments on our fractional currency.  The market
price of bullion to-day will justify the government of the United States, without any sacrifice,
at a price about equivalent to, or perhaps a trifle above, our fractional currency--scarcely
a shadow above our fractional currency--to purchase silver bullion in the money markets of
the world, mostly of our own production, perhaps entirely of our own production.  This bill
simply directs that the Secretary of the Treasury shall purchase this bullion and shall coin
silver coin and substitute that in the place of fractional currency.  This section is recommended
not only by the Secretary of the Treasury and the President of the United States, but I believe
will meet the general concurrence of every Member of the Senate, and we fortunately are enabled
to embrace the present time to commence this operations without any loss to the government,
except perhaps the cost of the coinage of this silver may have to be paid out of the treasury
of the United States.  That coinage may be done in the ordinary course of business without
any increase of expenditures. The mints of the United States are now prepared, immediately
upon the passage of this bill, to resume the coinage of silver coins of all the legal denominations.
Therefore the committee has provided that the Secretary of the Treasury shall proceed to coin
the silver coins, and in one of several ways to issue them in place of fractional currency.

"I need not dwell further upon this section, because I believe it will meet with the general
assent of the Senate.  It provides for the immediate resumption of specie payments upon the
fractional currency, or at least as immediate as possible; that is, as soon as the government
of the United States can, in the mints of the United States, coin the silver coin.  That process
may continue one, two, or three years, how long we cannot tell, depending entirely upon the
force that may be employed in that direction.  It takes a much longer time to coin these small
coins than gold coins, and the operation will probably take more time than it would to coin
any considerable amount of gold coin."

Mr. Hamilton, of Maryland, inquired:

"I would ask the Senator if there is authority to reissue that fractional currency?"

I said:

"I will come to that in a moment.  The second section of this bill simply removes an inducement
that now exists to export our gold bullion from the United States to Great Britain, where,
by the long established laws of that country, they coin money free of charge. This section
involves the surrender of about $85,000 a year of revenue; that is, the government of the United
States received last year for coining gold coins, $85,000, or one-fifth of one per cent. on
forty-five millions of gold coined.  The only sacrifice of revenue, therefore, by the second
section of the bill, is the sacrifice or surrender of $85,000, which heretofore has been levied
upon those who produce gold bullion in order to convert it into coin.  In the opinion of many
men, among them the Secretary of the Treasury, the director of the mint, and perhaps a large
number of Senators heretofore, this will tend, in a slight degree at any rate, to prevent the
exportation of the gold of our own country into foreign parts, because when the government
of the United States undertakes to put gold bullion in the form of gold coin without additional
charge the tendency will inevitably be for the gold bullion to flow into the mints for coinage,
and being put into the form of American coin, it is thought by a great many people that this
will tend to prevent its exportation.  To the extent it does so it prepares us for specie payments.
That is the whole of the second section.

"The third section of the bill contains only two or three affirmative propositions.  The first
is that after the passage of this act banking shall be free.  Perhaps there is no idea stronger
in the minds of the American people than a feeling of hostility against a monopoly--a privilege
that one man or set of men can enjoy which is denied to another man or set of men.  Under the
law as it now stands banking is substantially free in the southern and some of the western
states; but banking is not free in the great commercial states, in the older states, where
wealth has accumulated for ages. This may be a mere sentimental point, but it is well enough
to meet it; and by the operation of this bill banking is made free, so that there will be no
difficulty hereafter for any corporation organized as a national bank either to increase its
circulation or for banks, to be organized under the provisions of existing law, to issue circulating
notes to any extent within the limits and upon the terms and provisions of the banking law.
This section, therefore, by making banking free, provides for an enlargement of the currency
in case the business of the community demands it, and in case any bank in the United States
may think it advisable or profitable to issue circulating medium in the form of bank notes,
under the conditions and limitations of the banking law.  Coupled with that is a provision,
an undertaking, on the part of the United States, that as banks are organized or as circulating
notes are issued, either by old or new banks, the government of the United States undertakes
to retire eighty per cent. of that amount of United States notes.  In other words, it proposes
to redeem the United States notes to the extent of eighty per cent. of the amount of bank notes
that may be issued; and here is the first controversial question that arises on this bill and
the first that is settled.

"It may be asked if we provide for the issue of circulating notes to banks, why not provide
for the retirement of an equal amount of United States notes.  The answer is that under the
provisions of the banking act, by the law as it now stands, a bank cannot be organized and
maintained in existence unless the reserve which is in that bank, or required for that bank
in the ordinary course of business, either on its deposits or circulation, is at least equal
to twenty per cent. of the amount of its circulating notes, so that it was believed, according
to the judgment of the best business men of the country, and I may say with the comptroller
of the currency, that the retirement of eighty per cent. of the amount of bank notes is fully
equivalent to keeping the amount of circulating medium in actual circulation on the same footing,
so that this provision of the bill neither provides for a contraction nor expansion of the
currency, but leaves the amount to be regulated by the business wants of the community, so
that when notes are issued to a bank eighty per cent. of the amount in United States notes
is redeemed, and this process continued until United States notes are reduced to three hundred
millions."

Mr. Schurz asked:

"Will the Senator permit me to ask him a question in reference to this section?  When the eighty
per cent. of greenbacks are retired will they be destroyed and never used again?"

I replied:

"I will speak of that in a moment in connection with other sections. Now, Mr. president, that
is all there is in regard to banking in this bill and also in regard to the retirement of the
United States notes until the time for the resumption of specie payments comes, when this bill
provides for actual redemption in coin of all notes presented.  It has always been a question
in the minds of many people as to whether it is wise to fix a day for specie payments. That
matter was discussed at the last session of Congress by many Senators, and the general opinion
seemed to be that if we would provide the means by which specie payments would be resumed it
might not be necessary to fix the day; but, on the other hand, it is important to have our
laws in regard to the currency fix a probable time, or a certain time, when everybody may know
that his contracts will be measured by the coin standard.  We also know, by the example of
other nations which have found themselves in the condition in which we are now placed, and
by some of the states when specie payments were suspended, that they have adopted a specific
day for the resumption of specie payments.  In England, by the bank act of 1819, they provided
for the resumption of specie payments in 1823, making four years.  In our own states--in New
York, in Ohio, in nearly all the states--when there has been a temporary suspension of specie
payments a time has been fixed when the banks were compelled to resume, and this bill simply
follows the example that has been set by the states, by England, and by other nations, when
they have been involved in a like condition.

"This bill also provides ample means to prepare for and to maintain resumption.  I may say
the whole credit and money of the United States is placed by this bill under the direction
of the proper executive officers, not only to prepare for but to maintain resumption, and no
man can doubt that if this bill stands the law of the land from this time until the 1st day
of January, 1879, specie payments will be resumed, and that our United States notes will be
converted at the will of the holder into gold and silver coin.

"These are all the provisions contained in this bill.  They are simple and easily understood,
and every Senator can pass his judgment upon them readily.

"Now I desire to approach a class of questions that are not embraced in this bill.  Many such,
and I could name fifty, are not included in this bill, and I may say this:  That if there should
be a successful effort, by the Senate of the United States, to ingraft any of this multitude
of doubtful or contested questions upon the face of this bill it would inevitably tend to its
defeat.  I am free to say that if I were called upon to frame a bill to accomplish the purpose
declared in the title of this bill, I would have provided some means of gradual redemption
between this and the time fixed for final specie payments.  All these means are open to objection.

"There have been three different plans proposed to prepare for specie payments, and only three.
They are all grouped in three classes.  One is what is called the contraction plan.  The simplest
and most direct way to specie payments is, undoubtedly, the gradual withdrawal of United States
notes or the contraction of the currency. Now, we know very well the feeling with which that
idea is regarded, not only in this Senate, but all through the country.  It is believed to
operate as a disturbing element in all the business relations of life; to add to the burden
of the debtor by making scare that article in which he is bound to pay his debts; and there
has been an honest, sincere opposition to this theory of contraction. Therefore, although it
may be the simplest and the best way to reach specie payments, it is entirely omitted from
this bill.

"The second plan, that I have favored myself often, and would favor now, if I had my own way,
and had no opinion to consult but my own, is the plan of converting United States notes into
a bond that would gradually appreciate our notes to par in gold.  That has always been a favorite
idea of mine.  There is nothing of that kind in this bill, except those provisions which authorize
the Secretary of the Treasury to issue bonds to retire the greenbacks as bank notes are issued;
and it also authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to issue bonds to provide for and to maintain
resumption. I therefore have been compelled to surrender my ideas on this bill in order to
accomplish a good object without using these means that have been held objectionable by many
Senators.

"The third plan of resumption has been favored very extensively in this country, which is the
plan of a graduated scale for resumption in coin or bullion; what I call the English plan.
That is, that we provide now for the redemption, at a fixed rate or scale or rates, of so much
gold for a specific sum of United States notes. At present rates we would give about $90 of
gold for $100 of greenbacks, and then provide for a graduated scale by which we would approach
specie payments constantly, and reach it at a fixed day. This may be called a gradual redemption.
This, also, is objectionable to many persons, from the idea that it compels us to enter the
money markets of the world to discount our own paper.  It is an ideal objection, but a very
strong objection; an objection that has force with a great many people.  We have undertaken
to redeem these notes in coin, and it is at least a question of doubtful ethics whether we
ought to enter into the markets of the world and buy our own notes at a discount.  Although
that plan has been adopted in England and successfully carried into execution, yet there is
a strong objection to it in this country, and therefore that mode is abandoned.

"Either of these plans I could readily support; but they have met and will meet with such opposition
that we cannot hope to carry them or ingraft them in this bill without defeating it.  We have
then fallen back on these gradual steps:  First, to retire the fractional currency; second,
to reduce United States notes as bank notes are increased; and then to rest our plan of redemption
upon the declaration, made on the faith of the United States, that at the time fixed by the
bill we will resume the payment of the United States notes in coin at par.  That is the whole
of this bill."

On the 7th of January, 1875, the bill was considered in the House of Representatives and, after
a very brief conversational debate, passed by the vote of yeas 136, nays 98.

On the 14th day of January, 1875, the President sent a message to the Senate approving the
bill but also containing recommendations of further legislation upon matters that had been
carefully excluded from the bill.

Thus, after a memorable debate, extending through two sessions of Congress, a measure of vital
importance became a law, and when executed completely accomplished the great object proposed
by its authors.  The narrative of the steps leading to resumption under this act will be more
appropriate hereafter.

The resumption act was generally received with disfavor by those who wished the immediate resumption
of specie payments.  It was the subject of much criticism in the financial journals, among
others "The Financier," which described it as a political trick, an evasion of a public duty,
and as totally inadequate for the purpose sought to be accomplished.  I took occasion to reply
to this article in the following letter:

  "United States Senate Chamber,}
  "Washington, January 10, 1875.}
"Dear Sir:--As I am a subscriber to 'The Financier,' you will
probably allow me to express my surprise at the course you have
pursued in respect to the finance bill recently passed by Congress.
Claiming as you do to be a 'monetary and business' journal, you
might be expected to treat fairly a measure affecting so greatly
the interests you represent; but you have not done so.  You have
treated it as a political trick, an evasion, a disgrace to Congress.
You complained that it was passed without debate and that its
inception and passage were shameful.  But as you say in your last
number 'that it is well to examine it hopefully, to find what good
may have been done, if any, although from a bad motive,' I take
the liberty to correct errors even in your 'hopeful' view of the
law, so that you may be more hopeful still.  You assume that the
Secretary of the Treasury is not authorized to issue five per cent.
gold bonds to prepare for and to maintain resumption, because the
amount of five per cent. bonds authorized in the act of 1870 is
nearly exhausted.  This is an error.  The secretary can issue either
four and a half or five per cent. gold bonds to an amount sufficient
to execute the law.  The act of 1870 is only referred to for the
'description' of the bonds to be issued, and the only limit to
their amount is the sum necessary, and the only limit to their sale
is that they must not be sold at less than par in coin.

"You say that one trick of the bill is 'that there is no provision for carrying on the withdrawal
of legal tenders after their maximum reaches $300,000,000.'  Now this 'trick' was advocated
by you one year ago; it was voted for by every specie paying Member of Congress at the last
session, and nearly every writer on the subject has contended that if the legal tenders were
reduced to $300,000,000, and the treasury was supported by a reasonable reserve, specie payments
could be resumed and maintained.  Besides, no one believes that $100,000,000 of bank notes
will be issued under this act, and this provision only relieves some people from an idle fear
of an improbable event.  You must have noticed that when banks retire their notes, as they
have done and will do rapidly, this is a reduction of the currency, while every issue of notes
to new or old banks involves a retirement of a ratable amount of United States notes.  What
you say about playing with a movable 'reserve' is equally wrong.  Neither the fractional currency
nor the 'eighty- two million' redeemed can be reissued, and I stated so when the bill was pending
under debate, and no lawyer could put a different construction upon the bill.  As to United
States notes, a part of the $300,000,000 redeemed after resumption of specie payments, we did
refuse to provide whether they could be reissued or not, and we acted wisely.  When the question
is hereafter determined by Congress, the controversy will be whether the notes when reissued
shall have the legal tender quality, or be simple treasury notes receivable for public dues.

"Last session the public press scolded at our long and fruitless debate on finances, and I
agreed with the press.  This session the same Senators, enlightened by the long debate and
heeding the call of the press, gave to the subject the most careful and deliberate consideration,
and agreed upon this bill without much debate, and yet the press is not happy.  The act does
not go as far as I wished, but everything in it is right in itself, and is in the right direction.
Its chief merit is that it establishes a public policy which no political party or faction
will be strong enough to overthrow, and which if it had not been adopted now, the Democratic
party in the next Congress would have defeated.  The pretense that the Democratic party, as
represented in the next House, would have favored any bill for specie payments is utterly false.
Therefore the measure grants to the Secretary of the Treasury powers enough to execute it,
but if we can secure the aid of a Democratic House we can make it certain and effective.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Editor of 'Financier.'"

In the Ohio canvass of 1875 the resumption act became the chief subject of controversy.  R.
B. Hayes, after having previously served for four years as governor of the state, was against
nominated for that office.  William Allen, then governor, was renominated upon the Democratic
ticket, in opposition to the resumption act and in favor of fiat money, upon which issue the
election mainly turned.

The eighth resolution of the Democratic platform was as follows;

"That the contraction of the currency heretofore made by the Republican party, and the further
contraction proposed by it, with a view to the forced resumption of specie payment, have already
brought disaster to the business of the country, and threaten it with general bankruptcy and
ruin.  We demand that this policy be abandoned, and that the volume of currency be made and
kept equal to the wants of trade, leaving the restoration of legal tenders to par with gold,
to be brought about by promoting the industries of the people and not by destroying them."

The Republican convention in their second resolution declared:

"That a policy of finance be steadily pursued, which, without unnecessary shock to business
or trade, will ultimately equalize the purchasing capacity of the coin and paper dollar."

Ex-Governor Hayes and I opened the state canvass in the county of Lawrence on July 31, 1875,
and took strong ground in favor of the resumption act.  At the beginning it appeared that the
people were not quite prepared for any measure looking to resumption, but as the contest progressed
and the subject was fully and boldly presented by Mr. Hayes and myself, the tide of opinion
ran in our favor and Hayes was elected by a small majority.  The ex-governor did not evade
the issue, but in every speech supported and urged the policy of resumption as a matter of
the highest interest.

In the approaching nomination for President, Governor Hayes was frequently spoken of as a candidate
to succeed General Grant, and I also was mentioned in the same connection, but, feeling confident
that Mr. Hayes would be a stronger candidate than myself, and fully determined not to stand
in his way, on the 21st of January, 1876, I wrote a letter to a personal friends, and the Member
of the Senate from the district in which I live, in which I urged the nomination of Governor
Hayes as the most available candidate in the approaching presidential canvass.  This letter
no doubt contributed to his strength and prevented any possibility of the division of the vote
of Ohio in the convention.  The letter I give in full:

  "Washington, D. C., January 21, 1876.
"Dear Sir:--Your letters of the 2nd and 10th inst. were duly
received, and I delayed answering the first sooner partly from
personal reasons, but mainly that I might fully consider the
questions raised by you as to the approaching presidential contest,
the importance of which cannot be overstated.  The election of a
Democratic President means a restoration to full power in the
government of the worst elements of the rebel Confederacy.

"The southern states are to be organized, by violence and intimidation, into a compact political
power only needing a small fragment of the northern states to give it absolute control where,
by a majority rule of the party, it will govern the country as it did in the time of Pierce
and Buchanan.

"If it should elect a President and both Houses of Congress, the constitutional amendments
would be disregarded, the freedmen would be nominally citizens but really slaves; innumerable
claims, swollen by perjury, would be saddled upon the treasury, the power of the general government
would be crippled, and the honors won by our people in subduing rebellion would be a subject
of reproach rather than of pride.  The only safeguard from these evils is the election of a
Republican President, and the adoption of a liberal Republican policy which should be fair
and even generous in the south, but firm in the maintenance of all the rights won by the war.
Our election in Ohio last fall shows that even under the most adverse circumstances we can
win on this basis.

"Every movement made by this Democratic House of Representatives is an appeal to every man
who ever voted with the Republican party to rally to its support again, and to every man who
fought in the Union army to vote with us to preserve the results of his victory.

"All we need is such a presidential ticket as will give assurance that we mean to stand by
our principles, and that will administer the government honestly and economically.

"As to candidates, the drift of public opinion is rapidly reducing the list and has already
settled adversely the chances of many of them.  Above all, it has positively closed the question
of a third term.  The conviction that it is not safe to continue in one man for too long a
period the vast powers of a President, is based upon the strongest reasons, and this conviction
is supported by so many precedents set by the voluntary retirement at the end of a second term
of so many Presidents that it would be criminal folly to disregard it.  I do not believe General
Grant ever seriously entertained the thought of a third term, but even if he did, the established
usage against it would make his nomination an act of suicide.

"It would disrupt our party in every Republican state.

"Happily for us we do not need to look for the contingency of his nomination.

"Among the candidates now generally named, I have no such preference that I could not heartily
support either of them.  They are men of marked ability, who have rendered important public
services, but, considering all things, I believe the nomination of Governor Hayes would give
us the more strength, taking the whole country at large, than any other man.  He is better
known in Ohio than elsewhere, and is stronger there than elsewhere, but the qualities that
have made him strong in Ohio will, as the canvass progresses, make him stronger in every state.
He was a good soldier, and, though not greatly distinguished as such, he performed his full
duty, and I noticed, when traveling with him in Ohio, that the soldiers who served under him
loved and respected him.  As a Member of Congress he was not a leading debater, or manager
in party tactics, but he was always sensible, industrious, and true to his convictions and
the principles and tendencies of his party, and commanded the sincere respect of his colleagues.
As a governor, thrice elected, he has shown good executive abilities and gained great popularity,
not only with Republicans but with our adversaries.  On the currency question, which is likely
to enter largely into the canvass, he is thoroughly sound, but is not committed to any particular
measure, so as to be disabled from co-operating with any plan that may promise success.  On
the main questions, protection for all in equal rights, and the observance of the public faith,
he is as trustworthy as any one named.  He is fortunately free from the personal enmities and
antagonisms that would weaken some of his competitors, and he is unblemished in name, character
or conduct, and a native citizen of our state.

"I have thus, as you requested, given you my view of the presidential question, taken as dispassionately
as if I were examining a proposition in geometry, and the result drawn from these facts, not
too strongly stated, is that the Republican party in Ohio ought, in their state convention,
to give Governor Hayes a united delegation instructed to support him in the national convention,
not that we have any special claim to have the candidate taken from Ohio, but that in General
Hayes we honestly believe the Republican party of the United States will have a candidate for
President who can combine greater popular strength and a greater assurance of success than
other candidates, and with equal ability to discharge the duties of President of the United
States in case of election.  Let this nomination be thus presented, without any wire pulling
or depreciation of others and as a conviction upon established facts, and I believe Governor
Hayes can be and ought to be nominated. But if our state is divided or is not in earnest in
this matter it is far better for Governor Hayes and the state that his name be not presented
at all.  We have never sufficiently cultivated our state pride, with every reason for indulging
it, and thus our proper influence has been wasted and lost.  Now we have a good opportunity
to gratify it, and at the same time contribute to the common good. Remember me kindly to personal
friends in the Senate.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. A. M. Burns."

The election of Members of Congress in 1874 resulted in the choice of a large majority of Democrats
in the House of Representatives of the 44th Congress, the term of which commenced on the 4th
of March, 1875.  A majority of the Senate being still largely Republican, it became difficult
to pass any measure of a political character during that Congress.  President Grant, on the
17th of February, 1875, issued his proclamation convening the Senate at 12 o'clock on the 5th
of March following, to receive and act upon such communications as might be made to it on the
part of the Executive. The session continued until the 24th of March.  It was largely engaged
in questions affecting the State of Louisiana, which had been the scene of violent tumult and
almost civil war.  As these events are a part of the public history of the country I do not
deem it necessary to refer to them at length.  These disturbances continued during the whole
of that Congress, and, in 1876, approached the condition of civil war.

The regular meeting occurred on the 6th of December, 1875, when Thomas W. Ferry, of Michigan,
was elected president pro tempore of the Senate, and Michael C. Kerr, a Democratic Representative
from the State of Indiana, was elected by a large majority as speaker of the House.

This political revolution was no doubt caused largely by the financial panic of 1873, and by
the severe stringency in monetary affairs that followed and continued for several years.  Many
financial measures of the highest importance in respect to the public credit were acted upon,
but were generally lost by a disagreement between the two Houses.  I do not deem it necessary
to refer to the political questions that greatly excited the public mind during that session.
Congress was largely occupied in political debate on questions in respect to the reconstruction
of the states lately in rebellion, upon which the two Houses disagreed.  Among other measures
which failed was the act amendatory of the acts authorizing the refunding of the national debt,
which passed the Senate but was not considered by the House.

During this session of Congress all sorts of financial plans were presented in each House,
but all were aimed, directly or indirectly, at the resumption act, although that act itself
was adopted as a remedy for existing financial evils, and especially to deal with and prevent
the recurrence of such a panic as that of 1873.  I took occasion, on the presentation of the
resolution of the New York Chamber of Commerce in favor of the resumption of specie payments,
at the time provided by the resumption act, to discuss the policy of that measure more fully
than I thought it expedient to do so when, as a bill, it was pending in the previous Congress.
This speech was made in the Senate on the 6th of March, 1876.  It was the result of great labor
and care, and was intended by me to be, and I believe it is now, the best presentation I have
ever been able to offer in support of the financial policy of the government, and especially
in support of the resumption of specie payments. I said:

"Mr. president, I have taken the unusual course of arresting the reference to the committee
of finance of the memorial of the Chamber of Commerce of New York, in order to discuss, in
an impersonal and nonpartisan way, one of the questions presented by that memorial, and one
which now fills the public mind and must necessarily soon occupy our attention.  That question
is, 'Ought the resumption act of 1875 be repealed?'  The memorial strongly opposes such repeal,
while other memorials, and notably those from the boards of trade of New York and Toledo, advocate
it.  These opposing views are supported in each House of Congress, and will, when our time
is more occupied than now, demand our vote.

"And, sir, we are forced to consider this question when the law it is proposed to repeal is
only commencing to operate, now, three years before it can have full effect--during all which
time its operation will be under your eye and within your power--and while the passions of
men are heated by a presidential combat, when a grave questions, affecting the interests of
every citizen of the United States, will be influenced by motives entirely foreign to the merits
of the proposition.  And the question presented is not as to the best means of securing the
resumption of a specie standard, but solely whether the only measure that promises that result
shall be repealed.  We know there is a wide and honest diversity of opinion as to the agency
and means to secure a specie standard.

"When any practicable scheme to that end is proposed I am ready to examine it on its merits;
but we are not considering the best mode of doing the thing, but whether we will recede from
the promise made by the law as it stands, as well as refuse all means to execute that promise.
If the law is deficient in any respect it is open to amendment.  If the powers vested in the
secretary are not sufficient, or you wish to limit or enlarge them, he is your servant, and
you have but to speak and he obeys.  It is not whether we will accumulate gold or greenbacks
or convert our notes into bonds, nor whether the time to resume is too early or too late. 
All these are subjects of legislation.  But the question now is whether we will repudiate the
legislative declaration, made in the act of 1875, to redeem the promise made and printed on
the face of every United States note, a promise made in the midst of war, when our nation was
struggling for existence, a promise renewed in March, 1869, in the most unequivocal language,
and finally made specific as to time by the act of 1875.

"And let us not deceive ourselves by supposing that those who oppose this repeal are in favor
of a purely metallic currency, to the exclusion of paper currency, for all intelligent men
agree that every commercial nation must have both; the one as the standard of value by which
all things are measured, which daily measures your bonds and notes as it measures wheat, cotton,
and land; and also a paper or credit currency, which, from its convenience of handling or transfer,
must be the medium of exchanges in the great body of the business of life.  Statistics show
that in commercial countries a very large proportion of all transfers is by book accounts and
notes, and more than nine-tenths of all the residue of payments is by checks, drafts, and such
paper tools of exchange.

"Of the vast business done in New York and London not five per cent. is done with either paper
money or gold or silver, but by the mere balancing of accounts or the exchange of credits.
And this will be so whether your paper money is worth forty per cent. or one hundred per cent.
in gold.  The only question is whether, in using paper money, we will have that which is as
good as it promises, as good as that of Great Britain, France, or Germany; as good as the coin
issued from your mints; or whether we will content ourselves with depreciated paper money,
worth ten per cent. less than it promises, every dollar of which daily tells your constituents
that the United States in not rich enough to pay more than ninety per cent. on the dollar for
its three hundred and seventy millions of promises to pay, or that you have not courage enough
to stand by your promise to do it.

"Nor are we to decide whether our paper money shall be issued directly by the government or
by banks created by the government; nor whether at a future time the legal tender quality of
United States notes shall continue.  I am one of those who believe that a United States note
issued directly by the government, and convertible on demand into gold coin, or a government
bond equal in value to gold, is the best currency we can adopt; that it is to be the currency
of the future, not only in the United States, but in Great Britain as well; and that such a
currency might properly continue to be a legal tender, except when coin is specifically stipulated
for it.

"But these are not the questions we are to deal with.  It is whether the promise of the law
shall be fulfilled, that the United States shall pay such of its notes as are presented on
and after the 1st day of January, 1879, in coin; and whether the national banks will, at the
same time, redeem their notes either in coin or United States notes made equal to coin; or
whether the United States shall revoke its promise and continue, for an indefinite period,
to still longer force upon the people a depreciated currency, always below the legal standard
of gold, and fluctuating daily in its depreciation as Congress may threaten or promise, or
speculators may hoard, or corner, or throw out your broken promises.  It is the turning point
in our financial history, which will greatly affect the life of individuals and the fate of
parties, but, more than all, the honor and good faith of our country.

"At the beginning of our national existence, our ancestors boldly and hopefully assumed the
burden of a great national debt, formed of the debts of the old confederation and of the states
that composed it; and, with a scattered population and feeble resources, honestly met and paid,
in good solid coin, every obligation.  After the War of 1812, which exhausted our resources,
destroyed our commerce, and greatly increased our debt, a Republican administration boldly
funded our debt, placed its currency upon the coin basis, promptly paid its interest, and reduced
the principal; and within twenty years after that war was over, under the first Democratic
President, paid in coin the last dollar, both principal and interest, of the debt.  And now,
eleven years after a greater war, of grander proportions, in which, not merely foreign domination
threatened us, but the very existence of our nation was at stake, and after our cause has been
blessed with unexampled success, with a country teeming with wealth, with our credit equal
to that of any nation, we are debating whether we will redeem our promises, according to their
legal tenor and effect, or whether we will refuse to do so and repeal and cancel them.

"I would invoke, in the consideration of this question, the example of those who won our independence
and preserved it to us, to inspire us so to decide this question that those who come after
us may point to our example of standing by the public faith now solemnly pledged, even though
to do so may not run current with the temporary pressure of the hour, or may entail some sacrifice
and hardship.

"What then is the law it is proposed to repeal?  I will state its provisions fully in detail,
but the main proposition--the essential core of the whole--is the promise, to which the public
faith is pledged, that the United States will redeem in gold coin any of its notes that may
be presented to the treasury on and after the 1st day of January, 1879.  This is the vital
object of the law. It does not undertake to settle the nature of our paper money after than,
whether it shall be reissued again, whether it shall thereafter be a legal tender, nor whether
it shall or shall not supersede bank notes.  All this is purposely left to the future.  But
it does say that on and after that day the United States note promising to pay one dollar shall
be equal to the gold dollar of the mint.

"The questions then arise--

  "First.  Ought this promise be performed?
  "Second.  Can we perform it?
  "Third.  Are the agencies and measures prescribed in the law
sufficient for the purpose?
  "Fourth.  If not, what additional measures should be executed?

"Let us consider these questions in their order, with all the serious deliberation that their
conceded importance demands.

"And first, ought this promise be fulfilled?

"To answer this we must fully understand the legal and moral obligations contained in the notes
of the United States.  The purport of the note is as follows:

  'THE UNITED STATES PROMISES TO PAY THE BEARER ONE DOLLAR.'

"This note is a promise to pay one dollar.  The legal effect of this note has been announced
by the unanimous opinion of the Supreme Court of the United States, the highest and final judicial
authority in our government.

"The legal tender attribute given to the note has been the subject of conflicting decisions
in that court, but the nature and purport of it is not only plain on its face, but is concurred
in by every judge of that court and by every judicial tribunal before which that question has
been presented.

"In the case of Bank vs. Supervisors, 7 Wallace, 31, Chief Justice Chase says:

'But, on the other hand, it is equally clear that these notes are obligations of the United
States.  Their name imports obligation. Every one of them expresses upon its face an engagement
of the nation to pay to the bearer a certain sum.  The dollar note is an engagement to pay
a dollar, and the dollar intended is the coined dollar of the United States, a certain quantity
in weight and fineness of gold or silver, authenticated as such by the stamp of the government.
No other dollars had before been recognized by the legislation of the national government as
lawful money.'

"Again, in the case of Bronson vs. Rhodes, 7 Wallace, 251, Chief Justice Chase says:

'The note dollar was the promise to pay a coined dollar.'

"In the Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wallace, 560, Justice Bradley says:

'It is not an attempt to coin money out of a valueless material, like the coinage of leather,
or ivory, or cowrie shells.  It is a pledge of the national credit.  It is a promise by the
government to pay dollars; it is not an attempt to make dollars.  The standard of value is
not changed.  The government simply demands that its credit shall be accepted and received
by public and private creditors during the pending exigency. . . .

'No one supposes that these government certificates are never to be paid, that the day of specie
payments is never to return.  And it matters not in what form they are issued. . . . Through
whatever changes they pass, their ultimate destiny is to be paid.'

"In all these legal tender cases there is not a word in conflict with these opinions.

"Thus, then, it is settled that this note is not a dollar, but a debt due; a promise to pay
a dollar in gold coin.  Congress may define the weight and fineness of a dollar, and it has
been done so by providing a gold coin weighing twenty-five and eight-tenths grains of standard
gold nine-tenths fine.  The promise is specific and exact, and its nature is fixed by the law
and announced by the court.  Here I might rest as to the nature of the United States note;
but it is proper that I state the law under which it was issued and the subsequent laws relating
to it.

"The act of February 25, 1862, gave birth to this note as well as the whole financial policy
of the war.  The amount of these notes was subsequently increased during the war to the maximum
sum of $450,000,000, but the nature and character of the notes was the same as the first ones.
The enlargement of the issue did not in the least affect the obligation of the United States
to pay them in coin.  This obligation was recognized in every loan law passed during the war;
and to secure the note from depreciation the amount was carefully limited, and every quality
was given to it to maintain its value that was possible during the exigencies of the war. 
I might show you, from the contemporaneous debates in Congress, that at every step of the war
the notes were regarded as a temporary loan, in the nature of a forced loan, but a loan cheerfully
borne, and to be redeemed soon after the war was over.

"It was not until two years after the war, when the advancing value of the note created an
interest to depreciate it in order to advance prices for the purpose of speculation, that there
was any talk about putting off the payment of the note.  The policy of a gradual contraction
of the currency with a view to specie payments was, in December, 1865, concurred in by the
almost unanimous vote of the House of Representatives, and the act of April 12, 1866, authorized
$4,000,000 of notes a month to be retired and canceled.  No one then questioned either the
policy, the duty, or the obligation of the United States to redeem these notes in coin.

"Why has not this obligation been performed?  How comes it that fourteen years after these
notes were issued, and eleven years after the exigency was over, we are debating whether they
shall be paid, and when they shall be paid?  We may well pause to examine how this plain and
positive obligation has so long been deferred by a nation always sensitive to the public honor.
This act, though convenient in its temporary results, was a most fatal step, and for my part
in acquiescing in, and voting for it, I have felt more regret than for any act of my official
life.  But it must be remembered that the object of this provision was not to prevent the conversion
of notes into bonds, but to induce their conversion.  It was the policy and need of the government
to induce its citizens to exchange the notes freely for the bonds, so that the notes might
again be paid out to meet the pressing demands of the war.  It was believed that if this right
to convert them was limited, in time this would cause them to be more freely funded; and Mr.
Chase, then Secretary of the Treasury, anxious to prevent a too large increase of the interest
of the public debt, desired to place in the market a five per cent. bond instead of a six per
cent. bond.  The fatal error was in not changing the right to convert the note into a five
per cent. bond instead of a six per cent. bond.  This was, in fact, proposed in the committee
on finance, but it was said that a right to convert a note into a bond at any time, was not
so likely to be exercised as if it could only be exercised at the pleasure of the government.
And this plausible theory to induce the conversion of notes into bonds was made the basis,
after the war was over, for the refusal of the United States to allow the conversion of its
notes into bonds, and has been the fruitful cause of the continued depreciation and dishonor
of United States notes for the last five years, during which, our five per cent. bonds have
been at par with gold, while our notes rise and fall in the gamut of depreciation from six
to twenty per cent. below gold.

"Notwithstanding that the right to convert notes into bonds was taken away, yet, in fact, they
were, during the war, received par for par for bonds; and after the war was over all the interest-
bearing securities were converted into bonds; but the notes--the money of the people--the artificial
measure of value, the most sacred obligation, because it was past due, was refused either payment
or conversion, thus cutting it off from the full benefit of the advancing credit of the government,
and leaving to it only the forced quality of legal tender in payment of debts.

"Shortly after the war was over, and notably during the presidential campaign of 1868, the
question arose whether the bonds of the United States were payable in coin or United States
notes.  Both notes and bonds were then below par in coin, the notes ranging from sixty- seven
to seventy-five cents in coin; and five per cent. bonds from seventy-two to eighty cents in
coin.  Here again the opportunity was lost to secure the easy and natural appreciation of our
notes to the gold standard.  Had Congress then authorized the conversion of notes into bonds,
when both were depreciated, both would have advanced to par in gold; but, on the one hand,
it was urged that this would cause a rapid contraction, and, on the other, that the right to
convert the note into a bond was not specie payment; it was only the exchange of one promise
for another.  It was specie payment they very much favored, but did not have the wisdom then
to secure.  If the advocates for specie payment had then supported a restoration of the right
to convert notes into bonds, they would have secured their object with but little opposition.
Without adding one dollar to the public debt, or the burden of the debt, both bonds and notes
rose in value.  Within one year, the bonds rose to par in gold, making it practicable to commence
the refunding of six per cent. bonds into five per cent. bonds.  The notes rose under the stimulus
of this new promise, in one year, from seventy-six cents to eighty-nine cents in gold, but
no steps whatever were made to redeem them.

"The amount of bank notes authorized was increased fifty-four millions.  The executive department
pursued the policy of redeeming debts not due, and did, from an overflowing treasury, reduce
very largely the public debt, but no steps whatever were taken to advance the value of our
notes.  The effect of the act of 1869 was exhausted on the adjournment of Congress in March,
1870, when the United States notes were worth eighty-nine cents in gold; and thereabouts, up
and down, with many fluctuations, they have remained to this day.  The bondholder, secure in
the promise to him, is happy in receiving his interest in gold, with his bond above par in
gold. The note holder, the farmer, the artisan, the laborer, whose labor and production is
measured in greenbacks, still receives your depreciated notes, worth ten per cent. less than
gold you promised him 'at the earliest day practicable.'  The one has a promise performed and
the other a promise postponed.

"Thus we stood when the panic of 1873 came upon us; with more paper money afloat than ever
circulated before in any country of the world.  Even then, had we stood firmly, the hoarding
tendency of the panic would have advanced our notes toward the gold standard, and, in fact,
did so during the months of September and October, until the premium on gold had fallen to
eight per cent.  But, sir, at this critical moment, the Secretary of the Treasury, acting,
no doubt, in good faith, but I think without authority of law, issued twenty-six millions more
United States notes--part of the notes retired and canceled under previous acts.  And now,
notwithstanding all the talk about the contraction of the currency, we have not withdrawn one-half
of this illegal issue.  On the 1st of September, 1873, we had three hundred and fifty-six million
notes outstanding. Three months afterward, we had three hundred and eighty-two million; and
now we have three hundred and seventy-one million.

"Sir, it was under the light of these events, after the fullest discussion ever given in Congress,
of any question--after debate before the people during the recess of Congress, and full deliberation
last winter--this act was passed.  There was and is now great difference of opinion as to the
details, but the vital promise made to the note holder to make his note as good as gold in
January, 1879, was concurred in by a large majority of both Houses, and by many who opposed
the bill as too slow in its operation.  This act of honor and public faith was applauded by
the civilized world and concurred in by our constituents, the doubts only being as to the machinery
to carry it into effect.  The time was fixed by those who most feared resumption, and no one
proposed a longer time.  My honorable friend from Indiana [Mr. Morton] truly said (in the recent
campaign in Ohio) that he participated in framing it; and he and those who agreed with him
fixed the time so remote as to excite the unfounded charge that the bill was a sham, a mere
contrivance to bridge an election.

"And now, sir, to recapitulate this branch of the question, it is shown that the holder of
these notes has a promise of the United States, made in February, 1862, to pay him one dollar
in gold coin; that the legal purport of this promise has been declared by the Supreme Court;
that we have taken away from this note one of the legal attributes given it, which would long
since have secured its payment in coin--that when the note was authorized and issued, it was
understood as redeemable in coin when the war was over; that our promise to pay it was renewed
in 1869--'at as early a day as practicable;' that by reason of our failure to provide for its
payment, it is still depreciated below par more than one-tenth of its nominal value; that we
renewed this promise, and made it definite as to time, by act of 1875; that it is a debt due
from the United States, and in law and honor due now in coin.  Yet it is proposed to recall
our promise to redeem this note in coin three years hence. I say, sir, this would be national
dishonor.  It would destroy the confidence with which the public creditor rests upon the promises
contained in your bonds.  It would greatly tend to arrest the process by which the interest
on your bonds is reduced.  It would accustom our people to the substitution of a temporary
wave of popular opinion for its written contract or promise.  It would weaken in the public
mind that keen sense of honor and pride which has always distinguished the English-speaking
nations in dealing with public obligations.

"An old writer thus describes 'public credit:'

'Credit is a consequence, not a cause; the effect of a substance, not a substance; it is the
sunshine, not the sun; the quickening something, call it what you will, that gives life to
trade, gives being to the branches and moisture to the root; it is the oil of the wheel, the
marrow in the bones, the blood in the veins, and the spirits in the heart of all the negoce,
trade, cash, and commerce in the world.'

'It is produced, and grows insensibly from fair and upright dealing, punctual compliance, honorable
performance of contracts and covenants; in short, it is the offspring of universal probity.

'It is apparent even by its nature; it is no way dependent upon persons, parliament, or any
particular men or set of men, as such, in the world, but upon their conduct and just behavior.
Credit never was chained to men's names, but to their actions; not to families, clans, or collections
of men; no, not to nations.  It is the honor, the justice, the fair dealing, and the equal
conduct of men, bodies of men, nations, and people, that raise the thing called credit among
them.  Wheresoever this is found, credit will live and thrive, grow and increase; where this
is wanting, let all the power and wit of man join together, they can neither give her being
nor preserve her life.

'Arts have been tried on various occasions in the world to raise credit; art has been found
able with more ease to destroy credit than to raise it.  The force of art, assisted by the
punctual, fair, and just dealing abovesaid, may have done much to form a credit upon the face
of things, but we find still the honor would have done it without the art, but never the art
without the honor. Nor will money itself, which, Solomon says, answers all things, purchase
this thing called credit or restore it when lost. . . .

'Our credit in this case is a public thing.  It is rightly called by some of our writers national
credit.  The word denominates its original.  It is produced by the nation's probity, the honor
and exact performing national engagements.'

"And, sir, passing from considerations of public honor, there are many reasons of public policy
which forbid the repeal of the act of 1875.  That act was generally regarded as the settlement
of a financial policy by which at least the party in power is bound, and upon the faith of
which business men have conducted their affairs and made their contracts.  Debts have been
contracted and paid with the expectation that at the time fixed the gold standard would measure
all obligations, and a repeal of the act would now reopen all the wild and dangerous speculation
schemes that feed and fatter upon depreciated paper money.  The influence that secures this
repeal will not stop here.  If we can recall our promise to pay our notes outstanding why should
we not issue more?  If we can disregard our promise to pay them, why shall we regard our promise
not to issue more than $400,000,000, as stipulated for by the act of 1864?  If we can reopen
the question of the payment of our notes, why may we not reopen the question as to the payment
of our bonds? Is the act of 1869 any more sacred than the act of 1875?  And if we can reopen
these questions, why not reopen the laws requiring the payment of either interest or principal
of the public debt? They rest upon acts of Congress which we have the power to repeal. If the
public honor cannot protect our promise to the note holder, how shall it protect our promise
to the bondholder?  Already do we see advocated in high places, by numerous and formidable
organizations, all forms of repudiation, which, if adopted, would reduce our nation to the
credit of a robber chief--worse than the credit of an Algerine pirate, who at least would not
plunder his own countrymen.  And if the public creditor had no safety, what chance would the
national banks--creations of our own and subject to our will--have in Congress?  It has already
been proposed to confiscate their bonds, premium and all, as a mode of paying their notes with
greenbacks. What expedient so easy if we would make money cheap and abundant? Or, if so extreme
a measure could be arrested, what is to prevent the permanent dethronement of gold as a measure
of value, and the substitution of an interconvertible currency bond, bearing three and sixty-five
hundredths per cent. interest, as a standard of value; and when it become too expensive to
print the notes to pay the interest, reduce the rate.  Why not?  Why pay three and sixty- five
hundredths per cent., when it is easier to print three?  It is but an act of Congress.  And
when the process of repudiation goes so far that your notes will not buy bread, why then declare
against all interest, and then, after passing through the valley of humiliation, return again
to barter, and honor, and gold again.

"Sir, if you once commence this downward course of repudiation then there is but one ending.
You may, like Mirabeau and the Girondists, seek to stem the torrent, but you will be swept
away by the spirit you have evoked and the instrument you have created.  You complain now of
a want of confidence which makes men hoard their money. Will you, then, destroy all confidence?
No, sir, no; the way to restore confidence is to inspire it by fulfilling your obligations.
You cannot make men lend you; you cannot make men sell you anything --either bread, or meat,
or wool, or iron, or anything that is or that can be created--except for that which they choose
to take. You may depreciate the money which you offer, but it will only take more of it to
buy what you want.  It is true that the creditor may, by your laws, be compelled to take your
money however much you depreciate it, but he cannot buy back that which he sold, or its equivalent
in other necessaries of life, and thus he is cheated of part of what he sold.  During the war,
when money was depreciating, many a simple man gladly counted his gains as he sold his goods
or crops at advancing prices, but he found out his mistake when, with his swollen pile, he
tried to replace his stock in trade or laid in his supplies.  Sir, this policy exhausts itself
in cheating the man who buys or sells or loans on credit, who produces something to sell on
credit; whether that something be food or clothing; whether it be a necessity or a luxury of
life.  Productive labor, honest toil, whether of the farmer or the artisan, is deeply interested
in credit.  It is credit that gives life and competition to trade; and credit is destroyed
by every scheme that impairs, delays, or even clouds an obligation.

"Again, sir, an irredeemable and fluctuating currency always raises the rate of interest on
money, while a stable currency or an improving currency always reduces the rate of interest.
This is easily shown by statistics, but the reason is so obvious that proof is not needed.
If a man lends his money he wants it back again with its increase; but if the money, when it
is to be paid back, is like to be worth less than when he thinks of loaning it, he will not
loan it except at such rates as will cover the risk of depreciation.  He will prefer to buy
land or something of stable value.  If money is at the gold standard, or is advancing toward
that standard, he will loan it readily at a moderate interest, for he knows he will receive
back money of at least equal value to that he loaned.  Again, sir, with a depreciated currency
great domestic productions are cut off from the foreign market; for it is impossible that with
such a currency we can compete on equal terms with rival nations, whose industry rests upon
a specie standard.  As we approach such a standard, we are now able, as to a few articles,
to compete with foreign industry; but it is only as to articles in the manufacture of which
we have peculiar advantages.  Let us rest our industries on that standard, and soon we could
compete in the markets of the world in all the articles produced from iron, wood, leather,
and cotton, the raw basis of which are our national productions.  And it must be remembered
that all the countries with which we compete are specie-paying countries.

"A country that does not rest her industry upon specie is necessarily excluded from the great
manufacturing industries of modern civilization, and is self-condemned to produce only the
raw basis for advanced industry.  Cheap food, climate, soil, or natural advantages, such as
cheap land, vast plains for pasture, or rich mines, may give to a country wealth and prosperity
in spite of the evils of depreciated paper money; but when we come in competition with the
world in the advanced grades of production which give employment to the skilled mechanic, we
must rest such industry upon the gold basis, or we enter the lists like a knight with his armor
unbound.

"Again, sir, a depreciated and fluctuating currency is a premium and bounty to the broker and
money changer.  Under his manipulation our paper standard of value goes up and down, and he
gambles and speculates, with all the advantages in his favor.  Good people look on and think
that it is gold that is going up and down; that their money is a dollar still, and trade and
traffic in that belief. But the shrewd speculator calculates daily the depreciation of our
note, the shortening of the yard stick, the shrinkage of the acre, the lessening of the ton,
and thus it is that he daily adds to his gains from the indifference or delusion of our people.
Of all contrivances for cheating the laboring classes of mankind, none has been more effectual
than that which deluded them with paper money.  The only questions we should permit ourselves
to discuss are the means and measures of doing so.

"And now, sir, let us examine the reasons that have been given for the repeal of the resumption
act by those who, though favoring resumption, yet think the act should be repealed for one
or other of the following reasons:

  "First.  That it is not advisable to fix a day for resumption.
  "Second.  Or at least until the balance of trade is in our favor.
  "Third.  That it produces a contraction of the currency.
  "Fourth.  That it injuriously adds to the burden of existing
debts.

"Let us glance at these objections.

"First.  As to fixing a day for resumption.

"If it was possible to agree upon measures that would secure resumption without fixing a time,
I agree it would not be indispensable, though not unadvisable, to fix a time; but such agreement
is utterly impossible.  Of the multitude of schemes that have been presented to me by intelligent
men trying to solve this problem, many could have been selected that in my opinion would be
practicable; but of all of them not one ever has or is likely to secure the assent of a majority
of a body so numerous as Congress.  One difficulty we have encountered is that the Democratic
party, though in the minority, has never presented in any form, through any leading member,
a plan for resumption, but with widely differing opinions has joined in opposing any and every
measure from the other side. I understand from the papers that our Democratic friends, through
a caucus, and through a caucus committee of which my colleague is chairman, have been laboring
to agree upon a plan for specie payments.  After his frequent speeches to us about secret conclaves,
about shams and deceptions, and such like polite and friendly comments upon the work of the
Republican party, I might greet my colleague with such happy phrases about his caucus; but
I will not, but, on the contrary, I commend his labors, and sincerely hope that he and his
political friends may agree upon some plan to reach a specie standard, and not one to avoid
to, to prevent it, to defer it.  Under color of intending to prepare for it, I hope they will
not make their measure the pretext for repealing the law as it stands, which fixes a day for
resumption and will secure the end we both aim at.

"I frankly state for the Republican party that, while we could agree to fixing the time for
specie payments and upon conferring the ample and sufficient powers upon the Secretary of the
Treasury contained in the law, we could not agree in prescribing the precise mode in which
the process should be executed.  Nor, in my opinion, was it at all essential that we should.
Much must be left to the discretion of the officer charged with the execution of such a law.
The powers conferred, as I shall show hereafter, are ample; and the discretion given will be
executed under the eye of Congress.

"And, sir, there is a strong force in the fact that in every example we have of the successful
resumption of specie payments, in this and other countries, a fixed day has been named by legislative
authority, and the details and power of execution have been left to executive authority.  Thus,
in Great Britain, the act of parliament of July 2, 1819, fixed the time for full resumption
at the 1st day of May, 1823, and for a graduated resumption in gold at intermediate dates;
and for fractional sums under forty shillings to be paid in silver coin; and the governor and
directors of the Bank of England were charged with its execution, and authorized at their discretion
to resume payment in full on the 1st day of May, 1822.  France is now successfully passing
through the same process of resumption, the time being fixed (two years ago) for January 1,
1878, and now practically attained.

"In our own country many of the states have presented similar laws in case of suspended bank
payments, and in some cases the suspended banks have, by associated action, fixed a time for
general resumption, and each bank adopted its own expedient for it.  Sir, the light of experience
is the lamp of wisdom.  I can recall no case of successful resumption where a fixed future
time has not been presented beforehand, either by law or agreement; while the historical examples
of repudiation of currency have come by the drifting process, by a gradual decline of value,
by increased issues, and a refusal to provide measures of redemption, until the whole mass
disappeared, dishonored and repudiated.

"This concurrence in the mode of resumption by so many governments was the strongest possible
instruction to Congress when fixing a plan of resumption for the United States, and should
satisfy reasonable men of its wisdom.

"Besides, it would seem to be but fair that everyone should have plain notice of so important
a fact.  If the measures only were presented and no time fixed it would be a matter of speculation,
and the discretionary powers of the Secretary of the Treasury could be exercised with a view
to hasten or postpone the time to the injury of individuals.

"As to the date selected, I can only repeat it was placed as remote as any one suggested; far
more so than is necessary to secure the object, and so that the fluctuations of value will
scarcely exceed in four years what they have frequently been in a single year.  It allows ample
time to arrange all the relations of debtor and creditor, and to enable Congress to provide
any additional measure in aid of redemption, or, if events make it expedient, to postpone the
time."

It seemed to be the policy of a majority of the Democratic Members of both the Senate and the
House to exaggerate the evils and discouragements of the times, while in fact the people were
rapidly recovering from the results of the panic of 1873, and all branches of industry were,
to a greater or less extent, starting into life anew, and to prevent the resumption of specie
payments, and, if possible, to repeal the act providing for such resumption.  This policy undoubtedly
checked the process of refunding the public debt, which progressed slowly, and was confined
to an exchange of bonds bearing five per cent. interest for those bearing six per cent.

I took a much more hopeful view of the situation, and in the many speeches I made in that Congress,
I stated my confidence, not only in the process of resumption and refunding, but in the rapid
improvement of all branches of industry as we progressed towards specie payments.  In a speech
I made in the Senate on the 6th of January, 1876, on a bill "to further provide for the redemption
of legal tender United States notes in accordance with existing law," I said:

"Sir, we ought to take a hopeful view of things in this centennial year of our country.  Look
at the aggregate results.  A century ago we were three million people; now forty million; then
we had a little border on the Atlantic; we are now extended to the Pacific. See what has been
accomplished in a hundred years.  During that time there have been periods of darkness and
doubt.  Every seven or ten or twelve years, periodically, there have been times of financial
distress.  We have lived through them all.  I believe, and I trust in God, that this very year
is the beginning of another period of prosperity, and that all these dark clouds, which gentlemen
are trying to raise up from the memory of the past two or three years and from their own clouded
imaginations, will entirely disappear.  I believe that even now we are in the sunshine of increasing
prosperity, and that every day and every hour will add to our wealth and relieve us from our
distress.

"Sir, things are not so unhopeful as Senators seem to think.  We have made a promise to be
executed three years hence, and every step of our legislation, if any is had, should look in
that direction. We may not adopt any measure or may not deem that any is necessary; but, if
any be adopted, it ought to look to the execution of that promise, and we ought to enter on
the performance of this duty with hopeful trust in the continued prosperity of our country.
All this gloom and doubt, all this arraignment of official statements, this doubt of our sufficient
revenues, this doubt of our ability to meet and advance our destiny, always falls upon my ear
with painful surprise.  Senators, the task we have before us may be a difficult one, as it
has always proved to be difficult to resume the specie standard whenever, for any reason, a
nation has fallen from it, but it is a duty that must be executed, and it ought to be executed
without the spirit of party warfare, without these appeals, directly or indirectly, to party
tactics.  The pledges made one year ago, although not voted for by the Democratic party, are
pledges binding upon their honor and their faith as they are upon mine, and I trust in God
that we shall join together in all the proper steps to carry out those pledges."

This bill was referred to the committee on finance, but no action was taken upon it, as the
committee preferred to await the action of the House.

The resumption act provided for the payment and destruction of the fractional currency then
in circulation, to the amount of $40,000,000, and the substitution of silver coins in all respects,
such as were defined by the coinage act of 1853.  This was to be the first step in preparation
for the general resumption of coin payments in January, 1879.  It became necessary to provide
for the coinage of fractional silver coins, and a bill for this purpose, entitled "A bill to
provide for a deficiency in the Printing and Engraving Bureau, and for the issue of the silver
coin of the United States, in place of the fractional currency," was reported by Mr. Randall,
on the 2nd of March, 1876, from the committee on appropriations of the House.  It was subsequently
considered, amended and passed by the House, after a long debate, participated in by many of
the leading Members.  Much to my surprise, Mr. Hewitt and Mr. Ward, prominent Members from
New York, opposed the measure, denounced the resumption act, and prophesied its failure.  Mr.
Hewitt, in support of his position, quoted passages from the reports of Mr. Bristow, then Secretary
of the Treasury, and predicted the utter failure of resumption, unless the United States notes
were entirely withdrawn.  He insisted that if silver coin was issued to replace fractional
currency, the coin would disappear from circulation, leaving the people without any currency
for the smaller necessities of life.  In the progress of the debate, it became manifest that
the larger portion of the Democratic Members would vote against every measure proposed to aid
in the execution of the resumption act.

The bill passed the House on the 31st of March by the vote of 123 yeas and 100 nays.  In the
Senate it was referred to the committee on finance, and reported back with amendments.  The
third section of the bill, as it came from the House, provided for the coinage of the silver
dollar, of the weight of 412.8 grains troy, standard silver, and made that dollar a legal tender
at its nominal value, to an amount not exceeding twenty dollars in any one payment, except
for customs duties and interest on the public debt, and that the "trade dollar" should not,
thereafter, be a legal coin.  This section was stricken out.

In the remarks made by me, upon this bill, on the 10th day of April, 1876 , I gave, in detail,
the history of each of the coinage laws of Great Britain, France, Belgium, Germany, Switzerland
and Italy. I had taken great pains to collect this information and to procure translations
of the laws of the several countries named.  The then recent changes, made by Germany, and
their effect upon the coinage of other nations, were carefully stated.  The general conclusion
which I drew from a reference to these statutes of various countries, were:

"First.  It is impossible, in the nature of things, to fix the precise value of silver and
gold.  We have tried it three times and failed.

"Second.  Whenever either coin is worth more in the market than the rate fixed by the law,
it flees from the country.  That we have twice proved.  That is the admitted economic law.
It is the Gresham law; a law of currency named from the name of its discoverer.  He wrote a
book to show that always the poorer currency would drive out of circulation a superior currency;
and his book gave name to the theory that is called the law of Gresham.  It is the universal
law of political economy that, whenever two metals or two moneys are in circulation, the least
valuable will drive out the most valuable; the latter will be exported.

"The third proposition is that the example of several great European nations, as well as of
the United States, proves that to prevent the depreciation of silver the tendency of modern
nations is to issue it as a token coinage somewhat less in intrinsic value than gold, and maintain
its value by issuing it only as needed, at par with the prevailing currency, and to make it
a limited legal tender. I may say that has been acted upon by every great Christian nation.
Russia and Austria have not yet gold coinage at all, but still they have their values based
upon gold.

"Fourth.  That the demonetization of silver tends to add to the value of gold, and that though
the relative value ebbs and flows it is more stable compared to gold than any other metal,
grain, or production.  Its limit of variation for a century is between fifteen to seventeen
for one in gold.

"Fifth.  That both coins are indispensable, one for small and the other for large transactions.

"Sixth.  That the causes of the decline of silver are temporary. It is still used by a great
majority of mankind as the standard of value.  Its use in France and the United States will,
on resumption, more than counteract its decline in Germany.

"Seventh.  The general monetizing of silver now, when it is unnaturally depreciated, would
be to invite to our country, in exchange for gold or bonds, all the silver of Europe, and at
last it would leave us with a depreciated currency.

"Eighth.  The decline of silver enables us now to exchange silver coin of the old standard
for fractional currency, leaving the exchange optional with the holder, until we have the courage,
as we now have the ability, to redeem it in gold.

"Ninth.  More silver can be maintained at par than we have now of fractional currency.

"Tenth.  The redemption of a part of our currency would advance its purchasing power, while
the silver in circulation will counteract the contraction of the currency."

This bill became a law on the 17th of April, 1876.  The second section provided:

"That the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby directed to issue silver coins of the United
States of the denomination of ten, twenty, twenty-five and fifty cents of standard value, in
redemption of an equal amount of fractional currency, whether the same be now in the treasury
awaiting redemption, or whenever it may be presented for redemption; and the Secretary of the
Treasury may, under regulations of the treasury department, provide for such redemption and
issue by substitution, at the regular sub-treasuries and public depositaries of the United
States, until the whole amount of fractional currency outstanding shall be redeemed.  And the
fractional currency redeemed under this act shall be held to be a part of the sinking fund
provided for by existing law, the interest to be computed thereon as in the case of bonds redeemed
under the act relating to the sinking fund."

A joint resolution for the issue of silver coin was introduced in the House by Mr. Frost, of
Massachusetts, on the 1st of May, 1876. The object of this resolution was to expedite the issue
of minor coin and the retirement of fractional currency.  It was referred to the committee
on finance, reported favorably and passed with amendments June 21.  The House disagreed to
the amendments of the Senate, and a committee of conference was appointed composed of John
Sherman, George S. Boutwell, and Louis V. Bogy, managers on the part of the Senate, and H.
B. Payne, and Samuel J. Randall, managers on the part of the House.  The report of the conferees
was agreed to, and the bill having passed both Houses it was approved by the President on the
22nd of July.  It provided:

"That the Secretary of the Treasury, under such limits and regulations as will best secure
a just and fair distribution of the same through the country, may issue the silver coin at
any time in the treasury to an amount not exceeding ten million dollars, in exchange for an
equal amount of legal tender notes; and the notes so received in exchange shall be kept as
a special fund, separate and apart from all other money in the treasury, and be reissued only
upon the retirement and destruction of a like sum of fractional currency received at the treasury
in payment of dues to the United States; and said fractional currency, when so substituted,
shall be destroyed and held as part of the sinking fund, as provided in the act approved April
seventeen, eighteen hundred and seventy-six."

It also provided:  "That the trade dollar shall not hereafter be a legal tender, and the Secretary
of the Treasury is hereby authorized to limit, from time to time, the coinage thereof to such
an amount as he may deem sufficient to meet the export demand for the same."

It also provided that the amount of subsidiary silver coin authorized should not exceed $50,000,000.
The silver bullion was to be purchased from time to time at market price by the Secretary of
the Treasury from any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, and any gain or seigniorage
arising from the coinage was to be paid into the treasury.

These provisions in respect to subsidiary coin were in a large measure executed prior to the
4th of March, 1877, and tended, in my opinion, to facilitate the progress of the resumption
of specie payments on the 1st of January, 1879.  The debate on these measures occupied a large
portion of the time of both Houses of Congress, and presented in every possible aspect all
the financial questions involved in coinage, resumption and refunding.  Anyone desiring a full
knowledge of the view then taken of the act revising the laws in respect to coins and coinage,
approved February 12, 1873, will find in the debate a full history of that act, given at a
time when it was fresh in the memory of the great body of Senators and Members.

I supported the coinage of the old silver dollar in a speech in the Senate made on the 8th
of June, 1876, two years before the appearance of the "Bland bill," or the "Allison bill."
Silver bullion was then declining in market value.  The resumption act provided for the gradual
replacement of fractional currency by silver coins of the character and form provided for by
the coinage act of 1853.  When that act passed the old silver dollar was not coined or in circulation.
It was more valuable in the market than a dollar in gold, and, if coined, would have been exported
as bullion.  In the revision of the coinage laws of 1873, it was dropped from the list of coins,
and its further coinage was prohibited by a clause providing that no coins should be made at
the mint except those provided for in that act.  The history of this act and the reasons for
prohibiting the coinage of the old dollar have been fully stated in a previous chapter of this
work.  In place of the old dollar the trade dollar, containing 420 grains of silver, was provided
for.  This trade dollar, coined for, and at the expense of, the owner of the bullion deposited
at the mint, was, in the revision of the laws of the United States, unintentionally made a
legal tender for five dollars, the same as the minor coins issued by the mint on government
account.  As silver declined in value, the trade dollar became less valuable than a dollar
in gold, and the owners of bullion deposited it in the mint, and received in exchange trade
dollars costing less than a dollar in gold, but, being a legal tender for five dollars, it
could be forced upon the people of California, then upon the gold standard, at a profit to
the owner of the bullion.  Mr. Sargent, a Senator from California, early in the session introduced
a bill enlarging the limit of legal tender of minor coins, and repealing the legal tender quality
of the trade dollar.  This bill was referred to the committee on finance, and was reported
with an amendment to strike out all after the enacting clause, and insert:

"That section 3586 of the Revised Statutes of the United States be, and hereby is, amended
to read as follows:

"The silver coins of the United States, except the trade dollar, shall be a legal tender at
their nominal value for any amount not exceeding five dollars in any one payment."

This simple bill was made the text of a long debate in the Senate that continued during the
greater part of that session.  The provision that "the trade dollar shall not hereafter be
a legal tender" was transferred to the joint resolution already mentioned which became a law
on the 22nd of July.

In my speech on Mr. Sargent's bill I said:

"This bill proposes to restore the old silver dollar, and with it and the subsidiary coins
of the United States to redeem the United States notes and fractional currency.  The dollar
to be restored is the same dollar that had existed from 1792 to 1873; and the subsidiary coins
to be issued are the same in form and value as have been issued since 1853.  I have already
stated in my remarks, made on the 11th of April last, the history of these silver coins and
the relation of silver and gold to each other, not only in the United States, but in the countries
with which we have the most extensive commercial relations.

"The two main questions are:

* * * * *

"First.  Shall silver coin be exchanged for United States notes as well as for fractional currency?
And,

"Second.  Is it wise to recoin the old silver dollar with a view to exchange it for United
States notes?"

In this speech I favored the restoration of the silver dollar of the precise character and
description of the dollar that existed from 1792 to 1873, but, as the market value of the silver
in this dollar had greatly fallen, I insisted that the dollar should be coined from bullion
purchased by the government at market price, so that the people of the United States would
receive the difference between the cost of the bullion and the face value of the coin, the
same principle that was adopted in what is known as the Bland- Allison act of 1878.  I did
not, however, propose the full legal tender quality that was given to the dollar by the act
when adopted, but that it should be placed among the other silver coins, and be a legal tender
only for twenty dollars.

The plan proposed by me was to set aside a portion of the surplus revenue or sinking fund of
each year applicable to the payment of the public debt, for the purchase of silver bullion
to be coined into silver dollars of the old standard.  I said:

"The bill reported by the committee on finance thus provides for an immediate resumption of
specie payments in silver coin, and thus completes the first and most difficult step of the
problem.  It neither disturbs nor deranges business, nor stirs up the phantom of contraction.
It is in exact accordance with existing law, and leaves the silver coin, as now, a subsidiary
coin, a legal tender only for limited amounts.

"The next question presented by this bill is, shall we return to our silver coinage the old
silver dollar.  And here I am met by the objections of the Senator from Vermont, but his objections
are rather to the amendments proposed by the Senator from Missouri, than to the report of the
committee.  The committee propose the silver dollar, not as a legal tender for gold contracts,
but only as a tender for currency contracts not exceeding twenty dollars in any one payment.
I would prefer to leave the silver dollar and stand upon its intrinsic value as a legal tender
the same as the smaller coin; but there is no injustice in enlarging the limit to twenty dollars,
and but for the reasons I will state hereafter there is no injustice in making it a legal tender
for all currency contracts.  The silver dollar has that intrinsic value which in all periods
of our history has made it a favorite coin, not only for domestic uses but for exportation.
It furnishes silver bullion in a shape and form more convenient for handling than any other
form of coin.

* * * * *

"When the old silver dollars are issued at par with the United States notes, a large amount
of them will be taken as a reserve by the people to meet future needs, with or without a legal
tender quality.  As their issue is not peremptory, and the aggregate cannot exceed the surplus
revenue or sinking fund, there is no danger of an overissue, while their existence among the
people will be the best reserve when gold alone becomes the full standard of value.

"Every argument already mentioned in favor of subsidiary silver coins is equally potent in
favor of the silver dollar.  It will be eagerly taken in payment of United States notes.  It
is purely a voluntary exchange.  It is the cheapest mode in which we can redeem United States
notes.  It is specie resumption in the old time- honored standard of silver dollars of full
weight and fineness. It will accustom our people to distinguish between the real dollar that
pays where it goes and a paper dollar which only promises to pay.  It will prepare the way
for full resumption in gold.  To the extent proposed by the committee, and to be used as a
purely voluntary approach to a full specie standard, it is open to no objection or criticism,
and should be assented to by gentlemen who have differed with each other on the present resumption
law or on the merits and dangers of contraction and expansion."

The vital difference between the free coinage of silver, and the limited coinage of that metal
on government account, is that with free coinage the standard of value would be the cheaper
money. With silver at its present price in the market the dollar would be worth but a little
over fifty cents.  The coinage being free to the holders of silver bullion no other coins would
be made except the cheaper coins of least purchasing power.  On the other hand, the coinage
of silver on government account enables us to maintain the silver coins at par with gold, without
respect to the market value of the silver bullion.  Any nominal profit from this coinage inures
to the benefit of the whole people of the United States and not merely to the producers of
silver bullion.  This distinction has always appeared to me so marked and clear, and the argument
so strong in favor of limiting the coinage of silver to the amount demanded as a convenience
of the people for the smaller transactions of life, that I cannot sympathize with a policy
that aims merely to secure the cheapest money for the discharge of obligations contracted upon
more valuable money.

Among the measures that became a law at this session was a concurrent resolution, introduced
by me in the Senate on the 5th of July, 1876, to provide for the completion of the Washington
monument.

On the morning of the 4th of July, 1876, the 100th anniversary of American independence, I
was making some preparation for the celebration of that day in the vicinity of Washington.
Animated by the patriotic feeling inspired by the day, and sitting in view of the unfinished
monument of George Washington, I felt that the time had come when this monument should no longer
continue a standing reproach to a patriotic people.  Shortly after the death of Washington,
a resolution providing for the erection of a monument to his memory, was agreed to by both
Houses of Congress.  Subsequently, on January 1, 1801, a bill was passed by the House of Representatives
appropriating $200,000 for this purpose, but, in the political excitements of that day, the
Senate failed to concur.  In the absorbing public questions that ensued, resulting in the War
of 1812, the subject was dropped in Congress for the time.

In 1833 the "Washington Monument Society" was formed, with Chief Justice Marshall as its president.
This society proposed to raise the necessary sum to erect such a monument by voluntary subscriptions
of individuals, and in 1854 it had, by such means, constructed about one-third of the height
of the monument and then suspended work.  Thus it had remained for years for want of means
to complete it, a glaring evidence of failure.  The portion of the monument already reared
to the height of 156 feet stood in rude outline, an abandoned failure in the midst of a reservation
partly covered with water and broken stone.  The society was incorporated by Congress in 1859,
but no further progress was made.  It was manifest that the work could not be completed by
the existing organization, and doubts were expressed whether the foundation was sufficient
to bear the superstructure.  Under these conditions, on the 100th anniversary of the declaration
of American independence, it occurred to me the time had arrived when a great country like
ours should complete this unfinished monument to George Washington.

In submitting this resolution I said:

"I desire to offer at this time a concurrent resolution  I wish to say before it is read that
I believe if it were passed to-day it would be a matter of profound satisfaction to the great
body of the people of the United States.  I ask that it be read."

After the resolution was read, there was a pause, when Mr. Edmunds said:  "Let us consider
this resolution.  It will be agreed to unanimously, I am sure."

The resolution was therefore considered and agreed to unanimously. It was sent to the House
of Representatives the next morning, when Mr. Hopkins, of Pennsylvania, pending a motion to
adjourn, asked unanimous consent to take from the speaker's table the concurrent resolution
in reference to the Washington monument.  Upon the resolution being read, the House seemed
to be impressed, as was the Senate, with the fitness of the time, and the propriety of the
measure proposed, and it was unanimously adopted without debate.

Thus Congress undertook to execute the unfinished work of the Washington Monument Society.
The requisite appropriations were subsequently made, and the monument, as completed, is now
the most impressive token of the appreciation, by the American people, of the name and fame
of George Washington.  It is visited daily by nearly every American or stranger who enters
the city of Washington. Its dedication will be hereafter mentioned.

The Republican national convention of 1876 met at Cincinnati on the 14th of June of that year.
After the usual organization the following eight nominations for President were made:  Blaine,
Morton, Conkling, Bristow, Hayes, Hartranft, Wheeler and Jewell. The total number of delegates
was 754.  Blaine was greatly in the lead, receiving on the first ballot 285 votes, some from
nearly every state.  There were 7 ballots, in which Blaine steadily held his vote and slightly
gained, receiving on the final ballot 351 votes.  The vote for Hayes increased at each ballot
until on the seventh ballot he received 384 votes, a majority over all.

Undoubtedly Blaine was the favorite of the convention, but the antagonisms that existed between
him and Conkling probably defeated his nomination.  I still believe that the nomination of
Hayes was not only the safest, but the strongest, that could be made.  The long possession
of power by the Republicans naturally produced rivalries that greatly affected the election
of anyone who had been constantly prominent in public life, like Blaine, Conkling and Morton.
Hayes had growing qualities, and in every respect was worthy of the high position of President.
He had been a soldier, a Member of Congress, thrice elected as Governor of Ohio, an admirable
executive officer, and his public and private record was beyond question.  He was not an aggressive
man, although firm in his opinions and faithful in his friendships.  Among all the public men
with whom I have been brought in contact, I have known none who was freer from personal objection,
whose character was more stainless, who was better adapted for a high executive office, than
Rutherford B. Hayes.

Governor Hayes wrote me the following letter in recognition of my aid in his nomination.

  "Columbus, O., June 19, 1876.
"My Dear Sir:--I trust you will never regret the important action
you took in the inauguration and carrying out of the movement which
resulted in my nomination.  I write these few words to assure you
that I appreciate, and am gratified for, what you did.

"My kindest regards to Mrs. Sherman.

  "Sincerely,
  "R. B. Hayes.
"Hon. John Sherman."

His opponent, Samuel J. Tilden, was a man of singular political sagacity, of great shrewdness,
a money-making man, who professed to represent, and perhaps did represent, as fairly as anyone,
the ideas of the New York politicians of the school of Van Buren and Marcy.  I knew Mr. Tilden
personally and very favorably, as we were members of a board of railroad directors which frequently
met.  He seemed to take pleasure in talking with me about political events, and especially
of the famous New York politicians, of whom Silas Wright and Mr. Van Buren were his favorites.
He had acquired great wealth as the attorney of corporations, and was undoubtedly a man of
marked ability and sagacity.  He had taken an active part in defeating the corruption of Tweed
in New York politics.  He had been elected governor of the State of New York, as the candidate
of reform and honesty in politics.

The long and important session of Congress adjourned on the 15th of August.  It had been the
arena for long debates, mostly on political topics growing out of reconstruction, and financial
measures heretofore referred to.  The pending presidential contest also excited much debate
in both Houses.  The administration of General Grant had not been entirely satisfactory, and
the long continuance of the Republican party in power was an element of weakness.  The complaints,
unavoidable in the most honest administration, and the disappointments of office-seekers, placed
that party on the defensive.  The south had, by reconstruction, been practically restored to
political power, and the body of the negroes had been substantially disfranchised, though legally
entitled to the suffrage.  Riots and crimes of every degree were committed in the south, notably
in Louisiana, South Carolina and Florida. Organized mobs and violence had deterred many from
voting, and in some cases had prevented even the semblance of a free election.

I entered actively into this canvass, more so than in any previous one.  Three days before
the adjournment, I made my opening speech at Marietta, Ohio, in which I discussed fully the
dangers of the restoration of the Democratic party to power, the probability of their failure
to enforce the constitutional amendments, and the protection of the rights of the freedmen.
I claimed that the election of Mr. Tilden would result in the virtual nullification of the
constitutional amendments, and amount to a practical restoration to power of the old Democratic
party.  The revival of the rebel claims, the refunding of the cotton tax, and the damages done
to rebels, were fully commented upon, as were the outrages committed upon freedmen during the
second administration of General Grant, the organization of Ku-Klux Klans, and the White League,
and the boldness with which the laws were disregarded in the south. It is difficult now to
realize the condition of public affairs in all the states then lately in rebellion.  The people
of the south are certainly entitled to the highest credit for the great change that has recently
been made in the government of their states, but it cannot be denied that during the ten years
after the war their condition bordered on the despotism of mob rule and violence. Financial
questions, no doubt, entered into the canvass, but in this respect Governor Tilden and Governor
Hayes did not materially differ, while public opinion in the southern states was almost a unit
in favor of the larger use of paper money.  Their bankrupt condition made this policy almost
universal there.

I continued until the day of election to make speeches, not only in Ohio, but in several of
the states.  I engaged in a joint debate with Senator Voorhees, of Indiana, at Columbia City,
in that state, in September, which probably had more fun and humor in it than argument.  It
so happened that appointments were made for each of us at Columbia City, on the same day, and
the managers of the two parties concluded that they would have a joint debate, and arranged
for it, to which we both assented.  There was a great crowd, and besides Mr. Voorhees and myself,
"Blue Jeans" Williams, the candidate for governor, was to open the meeting in his peculiar
way, to which, as it would not at all interfere with our debate, I did not object. The debate
was fully reported in the Chicago "Inter-Ocean," and is a very graphic specimen of popular
debates in which each side claims to be the victor.  I think it would be safe to say that from
the close of Congress until the day of election I spoke on nearly every week day in some one
of the five or six states which I visited.

The result of the presidential election in November, 1876, was extremely doubtful.  It was
soon asserted that the majority either way would be very small, and that the probabilities
were that Mr. Tilden was elected.  Zachariah Chandler, chairman of the national Republican
committee, however, confidently telegraphed, on the morning after the election, that Hayes
was elected by a majority of one in the electoral college.  Further reports developed that
on account of intimidation, frauds and violence, committed in the election in Louisiana, South
Carolina, and Florida, the vote of each of those states was doubtful, and could only be ascertained
by the reports of the returning boards.  All of their electoral votes were needed to give Hayes
the majority of one.  Both parties claimed in each of the states a majority of the popular
vote.  In the heated state of political feeling in those states, it was a matter of grave doubt
whether the count of the vote might not result in violence, tumult or war.  On the evening
of November 11, I received from President Grant the following telegram:

  "Philadelphia, Pa., November 11, 1876.
  "Received at Mansfield, O., 8:35 p. m.
"Senator John Sherman.

"I would be much pleased if you would join other parties, who have already accepted same invitation,
to go to New Orleans to witness the canvassing of the vote of Louisiana.

  "U. S. Grant."

I replied that I would go as soon as practicable, and received the following answer:

  "Washington, D. C., November 12, 1876.
  "Received at Mansfield, O., 4 p. m.
"Hon. John Sherman.

"Unless you can reach there by Friday morning it will be too late.

  "U. S. Grant."

I at once started for New Orleans, stopping on the way at Columbus to confer with Governor
Hayes, who said he wished I would go to New Orleans, and witness the count, but expressed,
in the strongest possible language, his opposition to any movement on the part of anyone to
influence the action of the returning board in his favor. He said that if Mr. Tilden was elected
he desired him by all means to have the office.  I proceeded to Cincinnati, where I met some
of the gentlemen whom General Grant had requested to witness the count.  When we arrived in
New Orleans I found far less excitement in respect to the count than in Ohio.  I there met
the other gentlemen who had been, like myself, invited by General Grant. They were Messrs.
Stanley Matthews, Ohio; J. A. Garfield, Ohio; E. W. Stoughton, New York; J. H. Van Alen, New
York; Wm. D. Kelley, Pennsylvania; Job E. Stevenson, Ohio; Eugene Hale, Maine; J. M. Tuttle,
Iowa; J. W. Chapman, Iowa; W. R. Smith, Iowa; W. A. McGrew, Iowa; Sidney Clarke, Kansas; C.
B. Farwell, Illinois; Abner Taylor, Illinois; S. R. Haven, Illinois; J. M. Beardsley, Illinois;
John Coburn, Indiana; Will Cumback, Indiana; C. Irving Ditty, Maryland.

At New Orleans I was for the first time introduced to the members of the returning board, who,
under the laws of Louisiana, were required to verify the count and whose return was final.
We met also a large number of gentlemen who were there at the request of the national Democratic
committee to perform the same duty that had been imposed upon us by General Grant.  These gentlemen
were John M. Palmer, Illinois; Lyman Trumbull, Illinois; William R. Morrison, Illinois; Samuel
J. Randall, Pennsylvania; A. G. Curtin, Pennsylvania; William Bigler, Pennsylvania; J. R. Doolittle,
Wisconsin; George R. Smith, Wisconsin; J. E. McDonald, Indiana; George W. Julian, Indiana;
M. D. Manson, Indiana; John Love, Indiana; Henry Watterson, Kentucky; J. W. Stevenson, Kentucky;
Henry D. McHenry, Kentucky; Oswald Ottendorfer, New York; J. B. Stallo, Ohio; Lewis V. Bogy,
Missouri; James O. Brodhead, Missouri; C. Gibson, Missouri; John Lee Carroll, Maryland; William
T. Hamilton, Maryland; W. G. Sumner, Connecticut; P. H. Watson, Ohio; F. R. Coudert, New York.

Before my arrival a correspondence had occurred between what was called the Democratic visitors
and the Republican visitors in regard to our respective duties.  This correspondence, all of
which was reported to President Grant, resulted in the attendance of a certain number of each
of the bodies of visitors at each session of the returning board, and thus a constant surveillance
of the proceedings of the board was had.  At the same time we received from the returning board
the following letter:

  "State of Louisiana, Office Board of Returning-Officers,}
  "New Orleans, November 18, 1876.                        }
"Sir:--At a meeting of the board of returning-officers, held this
day, the following preamble and resolution, introduced by General
Thomas C. Anderson, was unanimously adopted, viz:

"Whereas, This board has learned with satisfaction that distinguished gentlemen of national
reputation from other States, some at the request of the President of the United States, and
some at the request of the national executive committee of the Democratic party are present
in this city with a view to witness the proceedings of this board in canvassing and compiling
the returns of the recent election in this state for presidential electors, in order that the
public opinion of the country may be satisfied as to the truth of the result and the fairness
of the means by which it may have been attained; and whereas, this board recognizes the importance
which may attach to the result of their proceedings, and that the public mind should be convinced
of its justice by a knowledge of the facts on which it may be based, therefore, be it

Resolved, That this board does hereby cordially invite and request five gentlemen from each
of the two bodies named, to be selected by themselves respectively, to attend and be present
at the meetings of the board while engaged in the discharge of its duties, under the law, in
canvassing and compiling the returns, and ascertaining and declaring the result of said election
for presidential electors, in their capacity as private citizens of eminent reputation and
high character, and as spectators and witnesses of the proceedings in that behalf of this board.

  "J. Madison Wells,
  "Chairman Board of Returning-Officers.
"Hon. John Sherman, St. Charles Hotel, New Orleans."

On the same day I answered in behalf of my associates as follows:

  "St. Charles Hotel,             }
  "New Orleans, November 18, 1876.}
"Sir:--I have received your note of to-day, with a copy of the
resolution of the board of returning-officers of the State of
Louisiana, and have communicated the invitation contained in it to
the gentlemen who are here at the request of the President of the
United States to witness the canvassing of the vote at the recent
election in this state for presidential electors, and am instructed
by them to inform you of their acceptance of the invitation, and
that they will designate a committee of five of their number to
attend the meetings of the board.  And I take this occasion to
express my thanks for the courteous terms of this invitation, my
deep sense of the importance of your proceedings, and my confident
hope that they will be so conducted as to convince the public mind
of the justice of your finding.

  "John Sherman.
"Hon. J. Madison Wells."

A similar invitation was extended to the Democratic visitors, and substantially the same reply
made.  The returning board then proceeded to perform its duty under the law.  At each session
the Republican and Democratic visitors were present, and I neither know of nor have ever heard
of any act being done or testimony taken by the board except in the presence of committees
of the two bodies of visitors.  The proceedings of the returning board were reported for each
body of visitors and for the returning board, and all the evidence taken was not only delivered
in the presence of the two visiting bodies, but was reported to the President and was published
by Congress.  Whatever opinions may be expressed as to the correctness of the findings of the
returning board, there can be no doubt that its proceedings were open, fair and impartial.
The board arrived at the conclusion that the Republican electors received a majority of the
votes cast in Louisiana at that election, and were entitled to cast the vote of the state for
President of the United States.

During the great excitement over this controversy, and also over that in South Carolina and
Florida, exaggerated statements, without the slightest foundation, of frauds and improper conduct
on the part of the returning officers were made and published.  As to the action of the returning
board of Louisiana, I feel bound now, after a long lapse of time, to repeat what was reported
to General Grant by the Republican visitors, that it made a fair, honest and impartial return
of the result of the election.  In concluding our report we said:

"The proof of violence and intimidation and armed disturbance in many other parishes, is of
the same general character, although more general and decisive, as to the five parishes particularly
referred to.  In the others, these causes prevailed at particular polling places, at many of
which the Republican vote was, to a considerable extent, prevented.

"We hope to be able to furnish full copies of all testimony taken by the board, that the justice
of its conclusions may be appreciated. It is a tribunal, from which there can be no appeal,
and, in view of the possible consequences of its adjudication, we have closely observed its
proceedings and have carefully weighed the force of a large mass of the testimony upon which
that adjudication has been reached.

"The members of the board, acting under oath, were bound by law, if convinced by the testimony
that riot, tumult, acts of violence, or armed disturbance did materially interfere with the
purity and freedom of election at any poll or voting place, or did materially change the result
of the election thereat, to reject the votes thus cast, and exclude them from their final return.
Of the effect of such testimony, the board was sole and final judge, and if, in reaching a
conclusion, it exercised good faith and was guided by an honest desire to do justice, its determination
should be respected, even if, upon like proof, a different conclusion might have been reached
by other tribunals or persons.

"To guard the purity of the ballot; to protect the citizen in the free and peaceful exercise
of his right to vote; to secure him against violence, intimidation, outrage, and especially
murder, when he attempts to perform his duty, should be the desire of all men, and the aim
of every representative government.  If political success shall be attained by such violent
and terrible means as were resorted to in many parishes in Louisiana, complaint should not
be made if the votes thus obtained are denounced by judicial tribunals and all honest men as
illegal and void."

Pending the action of the board I wrote to Governor Hayes the following letter, giving a general
view of the testimony:

  "State of Louisiana, Executive Department,}
  "New Orleans, November 23, 1876.          }
"My Dear Sir:--I have not written you sooner, for the progress of
our visitation will be known to you through the papers sooner than
from my letters, and the telegraph office here is more public than
a sheriff's sale.  We sometimes hear of private telegrams before
they are delivered.  The action of the returning board has thus
far been open and fair and only confirms the general result known
before.  We are now approaching the contested parishes.  To five
of them, viz:  Baton Rouge, East and West Feliciana, Morehouse and
Ouachita, the evidence of intimidation is so well made out on paper
that no man can doubt as to the just exclusion of their vote.  In
these parishes alone we ought to have a majority of 7,000, but
under the law the entire return must be excluded of all election
districts where intimidation has affected or changed the result.
If this is done the result will give the Hayes electors majorities
aggregating 24,111, and the Tilden electors 22,633, but in almost
every parish the official return varies somewhat from the stated
majorities, and thus far slightly reduces the Republican majority.

"The vote of each disputed parish has thus far been laid aside, and among them two parishes
where a most foolish blunder, or something worse, was made in omitting from the Republican
tickets the names of all the electors but the two Senatorial and one district elector.  The
Democrats claim this will lose over 2,000 votes, but our friends, whose information we have
generally found confirmed, say it will lose us at most 1,193 votes.  The law seems conclusive
that the defective ballots cannot be counted for any electors but those named on the ticket;
though it is conclusively shown that the remaining electors were omitted by reason of the mistaken
idea that the district could only vote for one elector.  The whole trouble has grown out of
the fact that in these two parishes a candidate for district judge was not named on the ticket
printed by the state committee.  We undertook to correct this by printing new tickets, which
were voted in those parishes.  The result of this blunder will leave the poll so close as to
render it probable that one or more of the Tilden electors would have a majority.

"There are other parishes where the organized intimidation was not so general as in the parishes
named, though in single election precincts it was effective.  These parishes, where formal
protests have been filed, are Bienville, Bossier, Caldwell, Franklin, Grant, Iberia, Lincoln,
Richland and Sabine.  How far the proof in these parishes will sustain the protests we cannot
judge till the evidence is heard before the returning board.

"We are now collecting the testimony as to the bulldozed parishes. It seems more like the history
of hell than of civilized and Christian communities.  The means adopted are almost incredible,
but were fearfully effective upon an ignorant and superstitious people.  That you would have
received at a fair election a large majority in Louisiana, no honest man can question; that
you did not receive a majority is equally clear.  But that intimidation of the very kind and
nature provided against by the Louisiana law did enter into and control the election, in more
election polls than would change the result and give you the vote, I believe as firmly as that
I write this.  The difficulty of gathering this testimony and putting it in the legal form
has been very great, but I believe has been fully met.

"The whole case rests upon the action of the returning board.  I have carefully observed them,
and have formed a high opinion of Governor Wells and Colonel Anderson.  They are firm, judicious,
and, as far as I can judge, thoroughly honest and conscientious. They are personally familiar
with the nature and degree of intimidation in Louisiana.  They can see that the intimidation,
as organized, was with a view of throwing out Republican parishes rather than endangering Democratic
parishes.  Our little party is now dividing out the disputed parishes, with the view of a careful
examination of every paper and detail.  Many are impatient of the delay, and some have gone
home.  We will probably be able to keep about ten here.  We have incurred some liabilities
for reporting, printing, etc., but hope the Republican national committee will make this good.
If not, we must provide for it ourselves.  We are in good hope and spirit.  Not wishing the
return in your favor, unless it is clear that it ought to be so, and not willing to be cheated
out of it, or to be 'bulldozed' or intimidated, the truth is palpable that you ought to have
the vote of Louisiana, and we believe that you will have ti, by an honest and fair return,
according to the letter and spirit of the law of Louisiana.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman."

To this General Hayes responded as follows:

  "Columbus, O., November 27, 1876.
"My Dear Sir:--I am greatly obliged to you for your letter of the
23rd.  You feel, I am sure, as I do about this whole business.  A
fair election would have given us about forty electoral votes at
the south--at least that many.  But we are not to allow our friends
to defeat one outrage and fraud by another.  There must be nothing
crooked on our part.  Let Mr. Tilden have the place by violence,
intimidation and fraud, rather than undertake to prevent it by
means that will not bear the severest scrutiny.

"I appreciate the work doing by the Republicans who have gone south, and am especially proud
of the acknowledged honorable conduct of those from Ohio.  The Democrats make a mistake in
sending so many ex-Republicans.  New converts are proverbially bitter and unfair towards those
they have recently left.

"I trust you will soon reach the end of the work, and be able to return in health and safety.

  "Sincerely,
  "R. B. Hayes."

I met Governor Hayes on my return and his conversation was to the same effect, that he wished
no doubtful votes and would greatly prefer to have Mr. Tilden serve as President if there was
any doubt about his (Hayes') election.  The Republican visitors did not return until after
the meeting of Congress at its regular session on the 4th of December, 1876.

This modest statement by General Grant was appreciated by Congress and by the country.  No
one doubted the sincerity and patriotism of the President.  His modest confession of errors
did not in the slightest degree impair the universal confidence in him.

On the 18th of January, 1877, Mr. Edmunds, of the select committee of the Senate on the counting
of electoral votes, submitted a report in writing with an accompanying bill.  It was, with
one exception, signed by the members of the committees of the two Houses without distinction
of party.  The bill provided in full detail a prescribed manner for counting the electoral
vote.  It was adopted by both Houses and voted for by a great majority, but, believing that
it was extra constitutional, I, with other Republicans, did not vote for it.  The history of
the electoral commission provided for in this bill is part of the history of the country, and
it is not necessary to here enter into it in detail.  It is sufficient to say that it resulted
in the counting of the votes of Louisiana, South Carolina and Florida for Mr. Hayes, electing
him President by a majority of one vote.  I took an active part in the debates on the questions
involved and gave in detail my view of the action of the returning board of Louisiana.

During this period I received a number of personal letters from Governor Hayes, some of which
may be of interest:

  "Columbus, O., December 25, 1876.
"My Dear Sir:--I have your esteemed favor, and have also met Judge
Taft and Governor Dennison.  There will not be the slightest
difficulty growing out of the matter you refer to.  You know my
general course of conduct.  It has always seemed to me wisest, in
case of decided antagonisms among friends, not to take sides--to
heal by compromise, not to aggravate, etc., etc.  I wish you to
feel authorized to speak in pretty decided terms for me whenever
it seems advisable--to do this not by reason of specific authority
to do it, but from your knowledge of my general methods of action.

  "Sincerely,
  "R. B. Hayes.
"Hon. John Sherman, etc., etc."

  "Columbus, O., January 5, 1877.
"My Dear Sir:--I have your note of the 3rd.  I do not wish to
influence the action of our friends, and do not volunteer opinions.
But you have a right to my opinion.  I believe the Vice President
alone has the constitutional power to count the votes and declare
the result.  Everything in the nature of a contest as to electoral
votes is an affair of the states.  The rest is a mere ministerial
duty.  Therefore it is not right, in my judgment, for Congress to
interfere.

  "Sincerely,
  "R. B. Hayes.
"Hon. John Sherman, U. S. S."

  "Columbus, O., February 15, 1877.
"My Dear Sir:--I have two letters from you since I last wrote.  It
if becomes my duty to make a cabinet I want your views fully and
specifically.  If possible a personal interview would be extremely
desirable.  Boynton writes to Smith that an assurance of my views
on the southern question, which are truly set forth in my letter,
with such additions as I could properly make, would be useful.  I
prefer to make no new declarations.  But you may say if you deem
it advisable that you know that I will stand by the friendly and
encouraging words of that letter and by all that they imply.  You
cannot express that too strongly.

  "Sincerely,
  "R. B. Hayes.
"Hon. John Sherman."

  "Columbus, O., February 16, 1877.
"My Dear Sir:--If the issue of the contest is in our favor I shall
want to see you at once if it is at all practicable.  Don't you
want to visit Mansfield?  I can meet you there or here--or possibly
at a point east of there.

  "Sincerely,
  "R. B. Hayes.
"Hon. John Sherman."

  "Columbus, O., February 19, 1877.
"My Dear Sir:--The more I think of it the more difficult it seems
for me to get ready to come to Washington before Wednesday or
Thursday of next week.  I must fix affairs at Fremont, and cannot
begin it until I know the result.  Why can't friends be sent or
come here?

"It seems to me proper now to say that I am extremely desirous that you should take the treasury
department.  Aside from my own personal preference, there are many and controlling reasons
why I should ask you to do this.  It will satisfy friends here in Ohio.  I understand Governor
Morton and our friends in Washington like it. The country will approve it.  You are by all
odds the best fitted for it of any man in the nation.  Your resignation from the Senate will
be a great loss to that body, but it will cause no serious dissensions or difficulty in Ohio.
Do not say no until I have had a full conference with you.  There is no reason why you should
not visit Ohio as soon as you can be spared from Washington.  Of course the public will know
of our meeting.  But they will be gratified to know it.  No possible harm can come of it. 
I should have said all this before, but I did not want to embarrass you in your action on the
presidential question.

  "Sincerely,
  "R. B. Hayes.
"Hon. John Sherman."

  (Telegram.)
  "Columbus, O., February 20, 1877.
"Hon. John Sherman.

"I will be greatly obliged if you can come to Columbus, but will meet you at Zanesville if
you think it important.

  "R. B. Hayes."

  "Columbus, O., February 28, 1877.
"Hon. John Sherman, Washington, D. C.

"Dear Sir:--Governor Hayes will be obliged to you if you will be kind enough to speak to Mr.
Evarts with respect to his acceptance of the place in the cabinet referred to in the interview
with you last week.  It was the governor's intention to make this request at that time, and
he may have done so, but not being quite sure of the fact, desires me to write you with reference
to it.

  "Yours very respectfully,
  "W. K. Rogers, Secretary."

President Hayes frequently, in personal conversation and in writing, had expressed a strong
desire that I should become the Secretary of the Treasury.  I was disinclined to accept this
position, as I was content to serve my constituents in the Senate.  It was not until after
his urgent request in his letter of February 19, 1877, that I seriously considered his desire
that I should accept that office.  I went to Columbus to ascertain the views of the legislature,
and whether there would be any difficulty in selecting a Republican to my place in the Senate.
Having found that there would not be, I, with reluctance, accepted his offer.  Stanley Matthews
was elected on the 21st of March to serve out my unexpired term, which ended on the 3rd of
March, 1879.

President Hayes arrived at Washington a few days before the 4th of March and was my guest until
he was inaugurated as President.  The 4th day of March was on Sunday, and to avoid any questions
about an interregnum, he was sworn into office on that day, but took the formal oath on the
next day, the 5th of March, and made his inaugural address.  He nominated the members of his
cabinet to the Senate and they were promptly confirmed.

I received many letters of congratulation and encouragement in assuming the duties of Secretary
of the Treasury, two of which I insert:

  "New York, March 6, 1877.
"My Dear Mr. Secretary:--Allow me to congratulate you on having
been selected by President Hayes to administer the financial affairs
of the nation.

"I deem it a happy augury that the President's choice of members of his cabinet has fallen
upon men who have made their mark as statesmen, and whose advent to power will, I feel convinced,
inaugurate an era of prosperity for our country.

"With yourself at the head of the treasury department, there is no fear of public credit being
shaken and commercial interests imperiled by crude and experimental legislation.

"With great respect, I remain, my dear Mr. Sherman,

  "Very truly your friend,
  "Cyrus W. Field.
"Hon. John Sherman, Washington."

"It may not be unsatisfactory to you to know that Americans--both those long domiciled here
and those in transit--applaud the appointment of the new Chief of the Treasury.

"I beg to offer my best wishes and belief that the reputation he has already achieved in the
Senate will be increased in the cabinet; and to say how glad I was that the unanimity of his
late compeers showed that they were of the same mind.

"With great respect, I am, my dear sir,

  "Very faithfully yours,
  "Adam Badeau."

When I assumed the office of Secretary of the Treasury I had the advantage of some of my predecessors
in that I was acquainted with the organization and duties of the treasury department.  Ever
since 1859 my connection with the committee of ways and means in the House and with the committee
on Finance in the Senate had brought me into official relations with the head of that department.
This legislative training gave me a full knowledge of the several laws that were to be executed
in relation to public revenue, to all forms of taxation, to coinage and currency, and to the
public debt. The entire system of national finance then existing grew out of the Civil War,
and I had participated in the passage of all the laws relating to this subject.  My intimate
association with Secretaries Chase, Fessenden and McCulloch, and my friendly relations with
Secretaries Boutwell and Richardson, led me, as chairman of the Senate committee on finance,
to have free and confidential intercourse with them as to legislation affecting the treasury.
Secretary Bristow had not had the benefit of experience either in Congress or the department.
He was a good lawyer and an able man. He doubted whether resumption would be effective without
a gradual retirement of United States notes, a measure that Congress would not agree to.  Congress
repealed even the limited retirement of such notes provided for by the resumption act.  Secretary
Morrill, of Maine, my immediate predecessor, was in hearty sympathy with the policy of Congress,
of which he had been a useful Senator, and but for his failing health would have been an efficient
secretary. Upon my assuming the duties of secretary, and for some time before, he had been
confined by illness to his lodgings in Washington. The treasury department was then well organized.
Most of the principal officers had been long in the service.  But few changes were made by
President Hayes or by myself, and only as vacancies occurred or as incompetency was demonstrated.
Of the said aggregate amount, not less than ten million dollars ($10,000,000) are hereby subscribed
for, the subscription to take effect on the 1st day of September, 1876, and the remaining amount,
namely, thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), may be divided at the pleasure of the parties
of the second part into several successive subscriptions of not less than five million dollars
($5,000,000) each, to be made prior to the 4th day of March, 1877.

"Second.  The parties of the second part shall have the exclusive right to subscribe, in the
same proportion to each of the subscribers, for the remainder, namely, two hundred and sixty
million dollars ($260,000,000), or any portion of said loan authorized to be issued by the
acts of Congress aforesaid, by giving notice thereof to the Secretary of the Treasury on or
before the 30th day of June, 1877; but the party of the first part reserves the right to terminate
this contract at any time after March 4, 1877, by giving ten days' notice thereof to the parties
of the second part.

"Third.  That the Secretary of the Treasury shall, when subscriptions are made by the said
parties of the second part, issue calls with even date with said subscriptions for the redemption
of an equivalent amount of six per cent. 5-20 bonds of the United States, as provided by said
act of July 14, 1870.

"Fourth.  The parties of the second part agree to pay for said four and a half per cent. bonds
par and interest accrued to the date of application for delivery of said bonds, in gold coin,
matured United States gold coin coupons, or any of the six per cent. 5-20 bonds called for
redemption, or in United States gold certificates of deposit issued under the act of March
3, 1863, with the understanding that payment to the extent of the amount of any call shall
be made within the time during which such call shall mature:  Provided, That, if the parties
of the second part shall elect so to do, they may have the privilege of making any of said
subscriptions payable specifically in uncalled six per cent 5-20 bonds of the United States,
in which case the Secretary of the Treasury may, to the extent of such payments, omit the calls
mentioned in condition No. 3.

"Fifth.  The parties of the second part shall receive in coin a commission of one-half of one
per cent. on all bonds taken by them, as allowed by the act of July 14, 1870, and shall assume
and defray all expenses which may be incurred in sending bonds to London upon their request,
or by transmitting bonds, coupons, or coin from there to the treasury department at Washington,
including all cost of making exchange of bonds, and shall also be charged with the preparation
and issuing of the bonds.

"Sixth.  No bonds shall be delivered to the parties of the second part, or either of them,
until payment shall have been made in full therefor in accordance with the terms of this contract.

"Seventh.  During the continuance of this contract any sales of bonds ordered by the Secretary
of the Treasury, by authority of law, except those that it may become necessary to sell to
pay judgments of the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims, shall be made through the parties
of the second part, who shall be allowed thereon a commission of one per cent. in gold coin.
And it is provided that the amount of bonds so ordered shall not exceed in the aggregate $25,000,000,
unless by mutual agreement of the parties.

  "Lot M. Morrill, Secretary of the Treasury.
  "Aug. Belmont & Co., On behalf of N. M. Rothschild & Sons, London.
  "J. & W. Seligman & Co., On behalf of Seligman Brothers.
  "Drexel, Morgan & Co., On behalf of J. S. Morgan & Co., of London.
  "Morton, Bliss & Co., For themselves and associates, as named
    above."

By its terms the contract provided for the sale of $40,000,000, four and a half per cent. bonds
of the United States at par in gold coin.  The contractors had the exclusive right to subscribe
for all or any portion of the remainder of the four and a half per cent. bonds, amounting to
$260,000,000.  The right to terminate this contract at any time after March 4, 1877, after
ten days' notice, was reserved by the United States.  The proceeds of the bonds sold were to
be applied solely to the payment of the six per cent. 5-20 bonds of the United States.  No
provision was made in this contract for the accumulation of coin for the redemption of United
States notes.  The process of refunding under it progressed slowly.

I felt it to be important that I should have some personal representative in London, to protect
the interests of the United States in the execution of this contract, and, therefore, on the
31st of March, 1877, I appointed Charles F. Conant, as the funding agent of the treasury department,
and directed him to assume the general management and supervision of all business in London,
arising from the funding of bonds.  A letter of instructions prescribing his duties was given
him.  He was directed to pursue the same general plan under which former negotiations had been
conducted, except as modified by these instructions, which were based upon the contract before
mentioned.  All bonds, money, or coupons received by him were to be securely kept in safes,
furnished by the department for that purpose, to be deposited in the vaults of the Messrs.
Rothschild.  Combination locks were provided for each safe, and no safe could be unlocked except
by three persons on distinct combinations, each person using a combination unknown to the others.
He was to keep me fully advised as to the course of the market, of the price not only of American
securities, but of foreign securities, and was to receive the new bonds and deliver them to
the Rothschilds in exchange for the bonds redeemed.  He proved to be a very competent and faithful
agent, and furnished me important financial information, which aided me greatly in refunding
operations.  His compensation and allowances, as well as those of all persons sent to London
in connection with the refunding of the public debt, were paid by the syndicate, so that no
expense whatever was incurred by the treasury on this account.

I gave the following notice to the parties to this contract that I would, on the part of the
United States, terminate it.

  "Treasury Department,             }
  "Washington, D. C., April 6, 1877.}
"Gentlemen:--I received your friendly cable message of the 10th
ultimo, and return my thanks and hearty good wishes.

"I am very solicitous to promote the funding of our six per cent. bonds as rapidly as practicable,
and feel indebted to you for the aid you have given in placing the four and a half per cent. bonds.

"I propose no change at present; but it is my desire, if practicable, to withdraw the four
and a half per cent. bonds from the market and substitute in their place the four per cent.
bonds authorized by the funding act.

"These bonds, as you know, are a very desirable investment, running thirty years from the date
of issue, with every guard and security that has been given to any bond of the United States,
and we think as safe and desirable as the securities of any other nation.  It is probably the
bond into which all the debt of the United States will in time be converted.  I hope you and
your associates will be able to engage with me to place this bond on the market when $200,000,000
of the four and a half per cent. bonds have been sold.

"The public policy of the United States to resume specie payments on or before the 1st of January,
1879, is fully established by the law and by public opinion.  It may be that the surplus revenue
will be sufficient to enable me to carry out this policy without the sale of bonds.  I am authorized
by the resumption act to sell five, four and a half, or four per cent. bonds to prepare for
resumption, and it may be desirable to sell through the syndicate, under that act, a limited
amount of bonds, not exceeding, I hope, $30,000,000 a year.  I do not wish in the execution
of this duty to disturb the exchanges between Europe and this country.  For this purpose I
desire to sell only the four per cent. bonds and must sell at par in coin, but could receive
in payment coin coupons maturing within a limited time.  I invite from you and your associates
such suggestions and offers as you may think proper to make for the purchase of such bonds.

"The operations of the syndicate have become so important that I have deemed it proper to ask
Mr. Charles F. Conant, late Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, to take charge of the business
in London in connection with the gentlemen already there.  He is well informed as to our laws,
and I trust his services may be of advantage to the government and agreeable to you.

"I will give my personal attention to this business, and will receive with pleasure any suggestions
from you that will promote our common object.

  "Very truly,
  "John Sherman, Secretary.
"Messrs. N. M. Rothschild & Sons, London, England."

I received the following letter:

  "New York, April 12, 1877.
"Hon. John Sherman, Secretary of the Treasury, Washington.

"My Dear Sir:--I had an interview with Messrs. Drexel, Morgan & Co., and conveyed to them your
wishes respecting limiting the sale of the four and a half and taking the four per cent. bond
in hand with the co-operation of the Messrs. Rothschild.

"I told Mr. Drexel that you would be happy to see him and Mr. L. P. Morton in Washington, whenever
convenient for them to go, and that on receipt by you of favorable advices from Mr. Conant
after his arrival in London, you desired that Drexel, Morton and I should repair to Washington,
in company with other leading members of the syndicate, with a view of entering into a contract
with the government, in conformity with your views as expressed to me, or perhaps with some
slight modifications, which, if suggested by the London people, through Mr. Conant, you may
deem proper to adopt.

"I shall see Mr. Morton in the course of this day, and have no doubt but that he, as well as
Drexel and myself, will be happy to aid you in raising the credit of our common country, and
assist the President and you in this patriotic work.  I remain, dear Mr. secretary, yours,
very faithfully.

  "Jos. Seligman."

A month later I wrote to Mr. Conant as follows:

  "Treasury Department,     }
  "Washington, May 14, 1877.}
"Dear Mr. Conant:-- . . . On Friday last I concluded a modification
of the present syndicate contract, which provides for the sale of
five million four and a half per cent. bonds at par in coin for
resumption purposes.  A further negotiation is pending as to the
renewal and modification of the contract, of which I will give you
due notice when completed.  In the meantime I wish to keep steadily
in view the sale of the balance of two hundred million four and a
half per cent. bonds, and, if possible, I wish to make the necessary
calls during this month and next.

"You can assure Messrs. Rothschild of every disposition on the part of the government to meet
their views, and to extend the contract with the necessary modifications.  Their efforts in
maintaining the credit of the bonds and securing this result will be highly appreciated.

"I would like to have you write me at least twice a week as fully as practicable.

  "Very truly,
  "John Sherman.
"Mr. C. F. Conant, London."

As the process of redeeming called bonds required a notice of ninety days, I postponed the
termination of the existing contract until after that period.  My purpose in terminating the
contract was to substitute for sale the four per cent. bonds of the United States instead of
the four and a half per cent. bonds.  I believed that the advancing credit of the United States
would justify this reduction of the rate of interest.  Another reason for this step was that,
in addition to refunding at a lower rate of interest, I wished to commence preparation for
the resumption of specie payments on January 1, 1879, according to law.  This could only be
done by the sale of bonds for gold coin.  I reserved the remainder of the four and a half bonds,
amounting to $100,000,000, authorized by the refunding act, for resumption purposes in case
the four per cent. bonds could not be sold at par in coin.

Another reason for a change in the existing contract was that it gave to the syndicate a monopoly
in the sale of bonds while I wished to sell the bonds directly to the people.

"Fourth.

"Eighth.  It is also agreed that the parties of the second part shall offer to the people of
the United States, at par and accrued interest in coin, the four per cent. registered consols
and four per cent. coupon consols of the denominations of fifty dollars and one hundred dollars,
embraced in this contract, for a period of thirty days from the public notice of such subscriptions,
and in such cities and upon such notice as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe prior
to the opening of the lists, and further, to offer to the subscribers the option of paying
in installments, extending through three months.

  "John Sherman, Secretary of the Treasury.
  "August Belmont & Co., On behalf of N. M. Rothschild & Sons, of
    London, And associates and themselves.
  "Drexel, Morgan & Co., On behalf of J. S. Morgan & Co., of London,
    And themselves.
  "J. & W. Seligman & Co., On behalf of Seligman Brothers and
    themselves.
  "Morton, Bliss & Co., On behalf of Morton, Rose & Co., of London,
    And themselves.
  "The First National Bank of the city of New York, by H. C.
    Fahnestock.
"Witnesses as to all:

  "R. C. McCormick.
  "E. J. Babcock."

By this contract the syndicate was to take $25,000,000 of the four per cent. bonds at par,
or in exchange of six per cent 5-20 bonds. Of this sum $5,000,000 in gold coin was to be paid
to the treasury for resumption purposes.

The result of this contract was not only to save one-half of one per cent. on the annual interest
of the bonds redeemed, but to so popularize the loan that within a brief period I was able
to terminate the contract according to its terms, and to sell the four per cent. bonds directly
to the people at par, without a commission, or the aid of a syndicate.

I wrote to Mr. Conant as follows:

  "Treasury Department,     }
  "Washington, May 31, 1877.}
"Dear Mr. Conant:--Your letter of the 19th is received.  Since its
date matters here have changed greatly for the better, and I have
made two calls for ten millions each.

"There is a strong, steady demand for our bonds, and I have now no fear but the two hundred
millions four and a halfs will be exhausted before the 1st of July, when they will be withdrawn.
The prospect of placing the four per cent. bonds, commencing July 1, is very good.  I have
submitted to the syndicate a proposition in substance requiring them to take twenty-five millions
four per cents., during July and August, of which five millions will be for resumption purposes,
with a stipulation that if they take fifty millions additional in September and October the
contract will be extended to January 1, 1878, five millions a month to be applied for resumption
purposes.  I do not propose to vary essentially from the proposition. I have another offer
almost as good from other parties, but I hope to combine these two offers into a modified syndicate,
and, if possible, reserve the right to sell bonds at par, in coin or 5-20 bonds, to persons
who apply directly to me for exchange, giving, however, the syndicate the half per cent. commission.
We will considerably reduce the cost of the bonds, I think, to one-tenth of one per cent.,
so that the contracting parties will have a reasonably fair commission.  I am already assured
of many sales of the bonds whenever offered, without the aid of the syndicate, so that I consider
myself strong enough to undertake the placing the bonds even without their aid, if they will
not agree to reasonable terms.  If I can secure the active, hearty co-operation of all the
parties who wish to engage in selling the bonds, and they will be content with a reasonable
profit, the operation of funding can go on so rapidly that they ought to be satisfied with
the profit they will make.

"I have not overlooked the possibility that some movement of coin will be made to meet called
bonds in Europe in excess of bonds sold there, but hope to perfect arrangements by which I
will secure American bullion to meet this demand, without stopping accumulations of coin in
the treasury.

"The prospects here are favorable for a good crop in all the states of the Mississippi valley,
but there will probably be a bad crop in California.

"What we must do is push the loan so that it will be an established success before the meeting
of Congress.  If you can succeed in inspiring the Rothschilds to aid this purpose I am sure
of success. My proposition has been sent to them, and I was advised would be answered by telegram
about this time; but by the 15th I hope to have the arrangements completed.

"If upon receipt of this letter there is anything of striking interest affecting the loan you
may cable me.

"All well in the department.  Matters are going along quietly and steadily.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. Chas. F. Conant, London."

This letter he received about the time the new contract was executed. I subsequently sent him
the following cable telegram:

  "Washington, June 9, 1877.
"Conant, London:

"Contract of August 24, 1876, closed new four and a half per cent. bonds of $200,000,000. 
New contract twenty-five millions four per cent. bonds taken firm.  Particulars by mail.

  "Sherman."

Two days later I received a reply, as follows:

  "London, June 11, 1877.
"Sherman, Washington:

"Congratulations.  Rothschilds request me to say that it is important for this market that
the public subscriptions in America for four per cents. should be a success, and this will
make the market for London.  N. M. Rothschild & Sons hope Secretary of the Treasury will advise
that banks subscribe immediately.  J. S. Morgan & Co., N. M. Rothschild & Sons, think subscription
should be opened soon, in view of preparing London market.

  "Conant."

This new agreement gave at once a great impetus to the new loan in all parts of the United
States, as well as in London.  The following letters received indicate this:

  "Merchants' National Bank,    }
  "Cleveland, O., June 11, 1877.}
"Hon. John Sherman, Secretary Treasury United States.

"Dear Sir:--We learn that you propose to offer the public a certain portion of the new four
per cent. loan for a limited time, the amount subscribed to be paid in gold at the par value
of the bonds.

"This bank, being a public depositary of the government of the United States, shall be glad
to further your plans, and act as agent for the sale of such portion of the loan as you may
suggest, and endeavor to give it such publicity as would secure the sale of a portion of these
bonds in this part of Ohio.

"Wishing you success in the effort, I remain, very respectfully and truly,

  "T. P. Handy, President.

  "Treasury Department, June 12, 1877.
"John P. Hunt, Esq., Philadelphia, Pa.

"Sir:--Your note is received.  The department will be happy to receive your subscription in
a short time.  The bonds are not prepared, and the treasury regulations for the popular subscription
cannot be issued for a few days, when a copy will be sent you.

"It is the purpose to give you, and all other citizens of the United States, an opportunity
to subscribe at some convenient place in the city of your residence, to be designated in due
time, requiring only a small deposit at the time of subscription, and allowing the privilege
of paying at any time within ninety days thereafter.

"The bonds will bear date the 1st of July, and will be sold at par in coin and accruing interest
to date of payment.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

Contemporaneous with this contract for selling the four per cent. bonds for gold coin, there
appeared in the New York "Times" a suggestion that these bonds could be paid in silver.  Henry
F. French, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, in a published letter of the date of June 11,
asserted his opinion that the bonds issued under the act of July 14, 1870, for refunding, were
redeemable in coin of the standard value at that date, and that "as it cannot be known what
bonds have been transferred since the act of 1873, all bonds under the act of 1870 must be
paid in gold coin of the standard value named in the act of 1873." Intelligent people know
that you, sir, as well as President Hayes, are sound on the silver question, and yet it may
appear to you proper, and highly advantageous to the prompt marketing of the four per cent.
bonds, to disabuse those who have been led to believe that the President and you favor the
remonetizing of silver, with a view of paying our national debt in a metal so fluctuating as
silver has become since the principal nations of Europe have demonetized it.  We remain, dear
Mr. secretary, your obedient servants,

  "J. & W. Seligman & Co."

The article in the New York "Times," of June 12, 1877, said:

"In a dispatch received by the Secretary of the Treasury yesterday from Mr. Conant, the syndicate
agent in London, it was stated that the contract touching the four per cent. bonds is well
received in London, and the new bond bids fair to be the most popular of American securities.
There is no doubt that the bond has many advantages both for home and foreign investors.  It
has only one point of weakness, and that is, if the silver ring should succeed in getting an
unlimited issue of legal tender silver dollars, this bond would be payable, principal and interest,
in that coin.  Shrewd men, who know what silver has done and is liable to do in the way of
ups and downs, will take this fact into consideration, and the government will ultimately be
compelled to do the same.  At present the strength of the silver movement is estimated to be
small, but if this estimate should prove to be mistaken, the new four per cents. would suffer."

Mr. August Belmont wrote me a letter upon this subject of the date of June 14th, in which he said:

"Permit me to add a few words to the letter of my house of this day, in order to urge upon
you the vital importance of an official expression of yours over you own signature, in the
sense of the letter of Assistant Secretary French, published in this morning's papers.

* * * * *

"You are placed at this moment, by a large portion of your political friends, in a somewhat
similar position as the late Mr. Chase was by the attempt of Thad. Stevens to have Congress
pass a law to declare the principal of the 5-20 bonds payable in currency.

"Mr. Chase took the bull by the horns by declaring, over his own signature, that the principal
as well as the interest of the 5-20 bonds were payable in gold, the faith of the United States
being pledged to this by the tacit understanding of the government and its creditors.

"Nothing has reflected more credit and renown upon that great statesman--then as prominent
and favored a son of the noble State of Ohio as you are to-day--and nothing more effectually
paved the way to the great work of reducing the burden of our people by lowering our interest
one-third than that expression, sanctioned and confirmed by subsequent enactment of Congress
in 1869.

* * * * *

"You will, in my opinion, insure the success of your financial measures, and add greatly to
your high and prominent political position, if you will unequivocally declare that the funded
debt of the government can only be redeemed, principal and interest, in gold coin, and that
until otherwise agreed upon by the mutual consent of the great commercial nations of the United
States, England, France, and Germany, the silver dollar can only be accepted as an auxiliary
standard for the payment of fractional indebtedness."

To this I replied as follows:

  "Treasury Department,      }
  "Washington, June 16, 1877.}
"Dear Sir:--Your private note, the letter of your firm, and one
from Messrs. Seligman & Co., asking me to make a public statement
over my own signature, similar to that of Mr. French, are received.
I have given to this important suggestion the most serious
consideration, and have come to the firm conclusion that such an
act on my part would be inexpedient, and defeat the very object
you have in view.  As a purely executive officer, I have no power
to pass upon the question mooted.  My attempt to do so would at
once unite all those who are seized with this mania, and those who
oppose executive encroachment upon legislative power.  It would
create excitement, personal and political animosities would mingle
with it, and it would tend more than anything else to defeat the
success of the law.  I am quite sure this would be the result.

"As to whether Congress or the people would ever undertake to pay either principal or interest
of the bonded debt, and especially the bonds sold since 1873, in silver, I have a firm conviction
that the question will never seriously be raised.  These bonds will be paid, principal and
interest, in gold coin.  The people of the United States have always been extremely sensitive
as to the public credit.  They never have, for the sake of an apparent profit, yielded any
question involving the public honor.

"The great satisfaction that will arise from the funding of the loan at a low rate of interest,
together with their strong sense of public honor and public faith, will always secure the payment
of these bonds, principal and interest, in coin.

"Parties or factions may, for a time, raise and contest questions, but they are but bubbles,
and will pass away, and, like all other questions involving the public credit, will be rightfully
settled, in due time, by Congress and the people.

"Nothing would so tend to disturb this result as unauthorized 'theses,' or dogmas, by an executive
officer, upon a question purely legislative or judicial.  Indeed, it may be that too much has
already been said about this matter by both the President and myself, and I assure you that
you will have no occasion to be disturbed by anything truthfully reported of either of us hereafter.
The better way is to move right along, making your own statements, and if, at any time, I see
a proper occasion for a strong expression of my opinion, I will give it.

"Please show this to Mr. Seligman, and such of your associates as you deem proper, as an answer
to all.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. August Belmont, New York."

The new loan was promptly placed on the market on the 14th of June by the following circular
letter signed by the members of the syndicate:

"Under the authority of a contract with the Secretary of the Treasury, the undersigned hereby
give notice that from this date until July 16, at 3 p. m., they will receive subscriptions
for the four per cent. funded loan of the United States in denominations as stated below, at
par and accrued interest in gold coin.

"The bonds are redeemable after thirty years from July 1, 1877, and carry interest from that
date, payable quarterly, and are exempt from the payment of taxes or duties to the United States,
as well as from taxation in any form, by or under state, municipal, or local authority.

"The interest on the registered stock will be paid by check, issued by the treasurer of the
United States to the order of the holder, and mailed to his address.  The check is payable
on presentation, properly indorsed, at the offices of the treasurer and assistant treasurers
of the United States.

"The subscriptions will be for coupon bonds of $50 and $100, and registered stock in denominations
of $50, $100, $500, $1,000, $5,000, and $10,000.

"The bonds, both coupon and registered, will be ready for delivery July 2, 1877.

"Forms of application will be furnished by the treasurer at Washington, the assistant treasurers
at Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Cincinnati, New Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis,
and San Francisco, and by the national banks and bankers generally. The applications must specify
the amount and denominations required, and for registered stock the full name and post office
address of the person to whom the bonds shall be made payable.

"Two per cent. of the purchase money must accompany the subscription. The remainder may be
paid, at the pleasure of the purchaser, either at the time of the subscription or at any time
prior to October 16, 1877, with interest added at four per cent. to date of payment.

"To promote the convenience of subscribers, the undersigned will also receive, in lieu of coin,
United States notes or drafts on New York, at their coin value on the day of receipt in the
city of New York.

  "August Belmont & Co., New York.
  "Drexel, Morgan & Co., New York.
  "J. & W. Seligman & Co., New York.
  "Morton, Bliss & Co., New York.
  "First National Bank, New York.
  "Drexel & Co., Philadelphia.
"June 16, 1877."

A few days later I wrote the following letter:

  "Treasury Department,             }
  "Washington, D. C., June 19, 1877.}
"Sir:--Your letter of the 18th instant, in which you inquire whether
the four per cent. bonds now being sold by the government are
payable, principal and interest, in gold coin, is received.  The
subject, from its great importance, has demanded and received
careful consideration.

"Under laws now in force, there is no coin issued or issuable in which the principal of the
four per cent. bonds is redeemable, or the interest payable, except the gold coins of the United
States of the standard value fixed by laws in force on the 14th of July, 1870, when the bonds
were authorized.

"The essential element of good faith, in preserving the equality in value between the coinage
in which the government receives and that in which it pays these bonds, will be sacredly observed
by the government and the people of the United States, whatever may be the system of coinage
which the general policy of the nation may at any time adopt.

"This principle is impressed upon the text of the law of July 14, 1870, under which the four
per cent. bonds are issued, and requires, in the opinion of the executive department of the
government, the redemption of these bonds and the payment of their interest in coin of equal
value with that which the government receives from its issue.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary.
"Francis O. French, Esq., 94 Broadway, New York."

The subscriptions were taken in every part of the United States, and within thirty days $67,600,000
were taken in this country and $10,200,000 in Europe, making $77,800,000 sold.  This sum, when
applied to the payment of the six per cent. bonds, made an annual saving to the people of the
United States of $1,556,000.  Since the 1st of March, 1877, there had been sold under the refunding
act $135,000,000 four and a half per cent. bonds and that amount of six per cent. bonds was
paid off and canceled, thus saving to the people of the United States $2,025,000 in coin each
year.  The aggregate reduction of interest by both classes of bonds from the 1st of March to
the close of the popular loan, was $3,581,000 a year in coin.  This was regarded as a great
success.

Early in July I set out on the revenue cutter "U. S. Grant" on a visit of inspection along
the north Atlantic coast, accompanied by the chief of the coast survey, the secretary of the
lighthouse board, the superintendent of the life-saving service, and the chief of the revenue
marine service, and also by Webb Hayes, the son of the President.  We visited the life-saving
stations along the New Jersey coast.  I was deeply interested in this service, which I regard
as the most deserving humanitarian branch of the public service.  We also visited some of the
leading lighthouses along the coast and the principal customhouses between the Chesapeake Bay
and Eastport, Maine.  We were everywhere received with great kindness and many social courtesies
were extended to us, especially in New York, Boston and Portland.  This outing was a great
relief from the close confinement I had undergone since the 4th of March. The information I
gathered as to these branches of the service, with which I had not previously had much acquaintance,
was of great value to me.  Such trips are sometimes treated by the press as "junketing" at
the public expense.  This is a great error.  Each of us paid his share of the expenses and
the vessel only pursued its usual course of duty.  I was brought into close association with
these subordinate officers of the department and became informed of their duties, and their
fitness for them, and was enabled to act with intelligence on their recommendations.

The only unpleasant incident that occurred on the trip was the running of the cutter upon a
rock upon the coast of Maine.  This happened in the afternoon of a beautiful day.  All the
gentlemen with me and the officers of the vessel were on deck.  The various buoys were being
pointed out and a map of the channel was lying before us.  Some mention was made of a buoy
that ought to be near the place where we were to mark the location of a rock, but none was
found, and suddenly we heard the scraping of the vessel upon the rock.  The cutter trembled
and careened over.  The captain was somewhat alarmed and turned the vessel toward the beach,
where it was speedily examined and found to be somewhat injured.  We ascertained afterwards
that the buoy had been displaced by a storm and that a vessel was then on its way to replace
it.  The sinking of the revenue cutter "U. S. Grant" was reported in the morning dispatches
and created some excitement; but the vessel did not sustain any substantial injury.  We thought
it best to leave it for a time to be thoroughly examined and repaired and took another vessel
to complete our journey to Eastport, the northeastern port of the United States.  From thence
Webb Hayes and myself returned to Portland and crossed over the Burlington, Vermont, on Lake
Champlain, and from thence went to Saratoga, where we remained a few days, and then returned
to Washington on the 22nd of July.  We passed through Baltimore on the day the riots occurred
in that city, and soon after heard of the much more dangerous outbreak in Pittsburg.

On the 6th of August I wrote to Mr. Conant as follows:

"Your letter of the 26th ultimo is received.  You can safely say to the Messrs. Rothschild
that the strikes have been totally disconnected with the government, but grow purely out of
a contract between the managers of the leading lines of railway and their employees as to rates
of pay.

"The railroad companies have, for several years, competed with each other in a very improvident
and reckless way, and are now, and have been for some time, carrying freight for less than
cost.  This has caused a large reduction of the net income of roads, has led to the loss of
dividends, and now to the reduction of wages of employees to rates scarcely sufficient to support
life.  Hence the strikes.

"The government has been appealed to by both railroads and strikers, by states and by cities,
for relief, and has promptly extended it in every proper case, and, without shedding blood,
has, in every case, suppressed the riot, and maintained the peace, so that the government is
really stronger by reason of these unfortunate events than before.  I do not observe that any
change has been made by them, either in the price of bonds or in the price of gold, nor in
the payment of subscriptions to four per cent. bonds.

"No effort is made to sell the bonds now, nor do I care to press the home market, until enough
bonds are sold abroad to provide for called bonds abroad.

"The month of August must necessarily be a languid one, and I do not advise any unusual efforts
to force sales.

"Your supplemental cipher was received after your telegram, but was soon found and dispatch
made out."

I no doubt was mistaken in the effect of the strikes upon our public credit.  From that time
forward for many months there was scarcely any sale of government bonds at any price.  The
contracting parties informed me that no bonds were then selling in the market and that in New
York they were a trifle below par.  Practically, for the remainder of the year, government
securities were greatly affected in price and value.

About the 10th of August I made my usual visit to my home at Mansfield.  Soon after my arrival
I received the following invitation, signed by a great number of my neighbors and friends,
without respect to party, expressing a desire to tender me a reception:

"Hon. John Sherman.

"Dear Sir:--The undersigned, your townsmen, and fellow-citizens of Richland county, desire
to give you some manifestation of the very high regard in which we hold your public services.
We are glad to know that you are permitted to again be at your own home, and for a week or
two mingle with us in all the unrestrained freedom of friends and townsmen.

"Financial and other public questions are, however, of importance to us always, and especially
now.  We recognize your great ability and long experience, and cannot but think that an expression
of your views on these questions will be very highly prized by the people of Ohio, irrespective
of party.  We therefore desire, with your sanction, on some day during the next week, to give
you a hearty welcome to your old home, and shall be glad to have you, on the occasion, give
your views on the public questions, now of such vast importance to all.  With our kindest regards,
we are,

  "Your friends, etc., etc."

I replied as follows:

  "Mansfield, O., August 13, 1877.
"Gentlemen:--I received with much pleasure your kindly letter of
the 10th inst., signed by so many of my old friends and neighbors
of Mansfield, and assure you of my high appreciation of your generous
words of courtesy and regard.

"I always return with satisfaction to my home on the western slope of our little city, and
always enjoy the fresh air and picturesque country around us, but, more than all, the cordial
greetings of old friends, with whom I have been acquainted since boyhood.  It will give me
much pleasure, at any time or place, to meet you, and to speak to you on current public questions,
and I venture to name next Friday evening.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman."

The gathering was one of the largest that had come together in Mansfield for years.  The evening
was delightful, cool and balmy, a bright moonlight adding attraction to the scene.  A stand
decorated with flags had been erected near the center of the park, with seats in front, and
lights gleamed on either hand.  I was introduced to the audience by my old friend and partner,
Henry C. Hedges, whose remarks were too flattering for me to insert.  In closing he said:

"Regarding you as our friend, our neighbor, our townsman, we are glad and rejoice.  We welcome
you home, though your stay may be only a few days, and we sincerely trust that, rested by your
stay, you may go back to your work reinvigorated, and that frequently we may have the pleasure
of your temporary visits, and in the future, when your labors are finished, among us you may
spend your old age, honored and happy."

As my speech expressed my views upon important questions of that time, I think it well to embody
extracts from it as part of the history of the then recent events, and my anticipations for
the future:

"The kindly words of welcome uttered by my friend and associate of many years move me beyond
expression.  They recall to me the scene of the early time when I came to Mansfield, then a
scattered hamlet of about 1,100 inhabitants, without pavements and without any of the modern
conveniences of cities and towns.  As Mr. Hedges has told you, very many of those I then met
here are dead and gone. I was a boy then.  A generation has passed away, and the sons of those
I met then as citizens of Richland county now fill places of trust and responsibility.  I have
every reason in the world for being strongly attached to this town of Mansfield.  You have
always been kind to me.  Here I studied law, here I practiced my profession for several years,
here I married my wife, a native of your town, here I have lived ever since, and when this
mortal coil shall be shuffled off, here, probably, will my body rest with your fathers. But
pardon me, fellow-citizens, if, under the kinds words of welcome of your spokesman, my old
and honored friends, Mr. Hedges, I had forgotten that we are not here merely to exchange courtesies,
but to discuss grave matters of far more importance than the life or memories of an individual.

"In doing so I wish it distinctly understood that I speak for myself alone, as a citizen of
Ohio, to you my fellow-citizens and my neighbors, to whom I am under the highest obligations
of gratitude and duty.

"The President authorized me to say one thing, and one thing only, for him, and in his name,
and that is that all reports that impute to him any participation whatever in the nomination
of candidates on your state ticket, or any desire or purpose to influence in any way the senatorial
contest in Ohio, are utterly groundless.

"These are your matters, and I can assure you for him, that he does not and will not, interpose
in any such contest between political friends.

"You all know that I am now, and have been, warmly attached to the Republican party.  I believe
in its principles and honor its work. With my strong convictions I could not conceal my partisan
bias, or my earnest hope for the success of the Republican party, but the subjects of which
I intend to speak to you to-night will not lead me to say much of former political struggles,
or to fight our old battles over again, but chiefly to discuss the actual administrative questions
of the day as they have arisen since the 4th of March last, and in all of which you are alike
interested, whether you may call yourselves Republicans or Democrats.  As to those questions
I wish fairly to appeal to the candor and good judgment of honest men of both parties, only
asking for the administration of President Hayes that considerate charity of judgment which
must be extended to all human agents.

"When Mr. Hayes was inaugurated as President he found thirty-six states in the full and uncontested
exercise of all the powers of states in the Union.  In two states only there were contests
as to who was governor.  Both contests had existed from January to March, 1877, while General
Grant was President.

"In South Carolina Governor Chamberlain claimed to have been elected on the Republican ticket,
and General Hampton on the Democratic ticket.  The President is not made the judge of who is
elected governor of a state, and an attempt to exercise such a power would be a plain act of
usurpation.  The constitution of South Carolina is much like that of Ohio.  The count of the
vote was to be made by the general assembly of the state.  Unfortunately for Chamberlain a
controlling question in the contest had been decided against him by a Republican court, and
he was only kept in possession of the state house by the actual presence of United States troops
in the building.  He had appealed again and again to President Grant to recognize him as governor
and give him the aid of Federal troops in the enforcement of his claim, which General Grant
had refused, seeking only to preserve the public peace.

"When President Hayes was inaugurated both contestants were called to Washington and both were
patiently heard and the questions presented were patiently and carefully examined.  The President
held that a case was not presented in which, under the constitution and the laws, he was justified
in using the army of the United States in deciding a purely local election contest.  The soldiers
and bayonets of the United States were then withdrawn from the state house--not from the state,
nor the capital of the state--but from the building in which the legislature, that alone could
lawfully decide this contest, must meet.  This was all that was done by the President, and
Governor Chamberlain, without further contesting his claim, abandoned it and left the state.

"I say to you now that, strongly as I desired the success of Governor Chamberlain and the Republican
party in South Carolina, the President had not a shadow of right to interpose the power of
the army in this contest, and his attempt to do so would have been rash and abortive as well
as without legal right.

"The case of Louisiana was far more difficult.  The local returning officers of that state
had, after a full examination, certified to the election of the legislature, showing a Republican
majority in both houses.  This had been done by excluding from their return the votes of certain
parishes and counties wherein intimidation, violence and fraud had prevailed to an extent sufficient
to change the result of the election.  I was present, at the request of General Grant, to witness
the count, and I assure you, as I have said officially, that the proof of this intimidation,
violence and fraud, extending to murder, cruelty, and outrage in every form, was absolutely
conclusive, showing a degree of violence in some of those parishes that was more revolting
and barbarous than anything I could conceive of.  It was plain that the returning officers
had the legal right to pass upon and certify, in the first instance, who were elected members
of the legislature, and that they were justified by the evidence in excluding bulldozed parishes,
but it was equally clear that their return was not conclusive upon the members elected, and
that each house had the constitutional right to pass upon the returns and elections of its
members, and to set aside the action of the returning board.  The two houses, when organized,
had also the power to pass upon the returns of the election of governor, and they alone and
no one else.  Neither the President of the United States nor the returning board has any power
or right to pass upon the election of governor.  And here the difficulty in the Louisiana case
commences.

"Governor Packard contends that a majority of the two houses, as duly returned, did pass upon
the election of the governor, and did return that he was duly elected, but this was stoutly
denied by Governor Nichols.  This vital point was strongly asserted and denied by the adverse
parties, and the legislature of Louisiana divided into two hostile bodies, holding separate
session, each asserting its legal power, and denouncing the other as rebels and traitors. Governor
Packard and his legislature called upon President Grant for the aid of the army to put down
insurrection and domestic violence; and here I confess that if I had been President, instead
of General Grant, I would have recognized Packard and sustained him with the full power of
the general government.  My intense feeling, caused by the atrocities in Louisiana, may have
unduly influenced me.  But General Grant did not think this was his duty. I do not criticise
his action, but only state the facts,  He would only maintain the peace.  He would not recognize
Packard as governor, but I know, what is now an open secret, the strong bent of his mind, and
at one time his decision was to withdraw the troops, to recognize Nichols and thus end this
dangerous contest.  He did not do this, but kept the peace.

"But during these two months the whole condition of affairs had slowly changed in Louisiana.
The government of Packard had dwindled away until it had scarcely a shadow of strength or authority,
except at the state house, where it was upheld by federal bayonets.  The government of Nichols
had extended its authority over the state and was in full existence as the de facto government
of Louisiana, supported by the great body of the white men and nearly all the wealth and intelligence
of the state, and by the tired acquiescence of a large portion of the colored people, some
of whom deserted Packard's legislature and entered that of Governor Nichols.  The delay and
hesitation of General Grant had been fatal to Packard, and when Hayes became President the
practical question was greatly changed.  One thing was clear, that a legislature had been duly
elected in November previous, and was then in existence, though separated into two parts. 
If the members lawfully elected could be convened, they alone could decide the question of
who was governor, without the intervention of troops, and their decision could be supported,
if necessary, by the general government.

"The most anxious consideration was given to this question.  Days and weeks of anxious deliberation
were given to it by the President and his cabinet.  But one way seemed open for a peaceful
solution, and that was to gather, if possible, a single legislature that could be recognized
as the depositary of the representative will of the people of Louisiana.  If this could be
done it had the unquestioned right to decide who had been elected governor, and all other questions
would settle themselves.  To aid in this object, a commission of the most eminent men, high
in position, from different states, and distinguished for judicial impartiality, was selected
and the result is known to all.  They went to Louisiana, and, with great difficulty, brought
together these hostile legislatures which met, organized, promptly settled the question in
dispute in favor of the government of Nichols, and thus ended this most dangerous controversy.
No other change was made, no other act done except, when the solution was almost accomplished,
the few troops which had then occupied that state house were withdrawn a few squares away,
to their barracks.  Thus, in this peaceful appeal to the legislature of Louisiana, this controversy,
which not only endangered the peace and safety of this state, but the peace and safety of the
whole people of the United States, was settled.  This is the sum and substance of all that
was done in the southern policy, as it is called, of the President.

"Perhaps I ought to state that his policy has a broader motive than a mere settlement of a
local election contest.  It seeks to bring the north and south again into conditions of harmony
and fraternity, and, by a frank appeal to the generous impulses and patriotic feeling of all
classes of people in the south, to secure, not only peace among themselves, but the equal protection
of the laws to all, and security in the enjoyment of political and civil rights.

"No doubt the result in Louisiana caused some disappointment to many Republicans throughout
the United States, who deeply sympathized with their Republican brethren in that state.  In
that feeling I did, and do, share, and yet I feel and know that every step taken by President
Hayes was right, in strict accordance with his constitutional duty, and from the highest motives
of patriotism. Some are foolish enough to talk of his abandoning the colored people and their
constitutional rights.  President Hayes, from his early manhood, has been an anti-slavery man;
his life was imperiled on many battlefields in the great cause of liberty, he sympathizes more
and will do more for the equal rights of the colored people than those who falsely accuse him,
and I believe this day, that the policy he has adopted will do more to secure the full practical
enforcement of those rights than the employment of an army tenfold greater than the army of
the United States."

In this speech I stated the action I proposed to take to secure the resumption of specie payments.
The plan was executed in all its parts by me, and my remarks may, in one sense, be said to
be a history of resumption.  Continuing I said:

"And now, fellow-citizens, this brings me to the question upon which there is so much diversity
of opinion, so many strange delusions, and that is the question of specie payments.  What do
we mean by this phrase?  Is it, that we are to have no paper money in circulation?  If so,
I am as much opposed to it as any of you. Is it that we are to retire our greenback circulation?
If so, I am opposed to it and have often so said.  What I mean by specie payments is simply
that paper money ought to be made equal to coin, so that when you receive it, it will buy as
much beef, corn or clothing as coin.

"Now the importance of this cannot be overestimated.  A depreciated paper money cheats and
robs every man who receives it, of a portion of the reward of his labor or production, and,
in all times, it has been treated by statesmen as one of the greatest evils that can befall
a people.  There are times when such money is unavoidable, as during war or great public calamity,
but it has always been the anxious care of statesmen to return again to the solid standard
of coin.  Therefore it is that specie payments, or a specie standard, is pressed by the great
body of intelligent men who study these questions, as an indispensable prerequisite for steady
business and good times.

"Now, most of you will agree to all this, and will only differ as to the mode, or time, and
manner; but there is a large class of people who believe that paper can be, and ought to be,
made into money without any promise or hope of redemption; that a note should be printed: 
'This is a dollar,' and be made a legal tender.

"I regard this as a mild form of lunacy, and have no disposition to debate with men who indulge
in such delusions, which have prevailed to some extent, at different times, in all countries,
but whose life has been brief, and which have ever shared the fate of other popular delusions.
Congress will never entertain such a proposition, and, if it should, we know that the scheme
would not stand a moment before the Supreme Court.  That court only maintained the constitutionality
of the legal tender promise to pay a dollar by a divided court, and on the ground that it was
issued during the war, as in the nature of a forced loan, to be redeemed upon the payment of
a real dollar; that is, so many grains of silver or gold.

"I therefore dismiss such wild theories, and speak only to those who are willing to assume,
as an axiom, that gold and silver, or coined money, have been proven by all human experience
to be the best possible standards of value, and that paper money is simply a promise to pay
such coined money, and should be made and kept equal to coined money, by being convertible
on demand.

"Now, the question is as to the time and mode by which this may be brought about, and on this
subject no man should be dogmatic, or stand, without yielding, upon a plan of his own, but
should be willing to give and take, securing the best expedient that public opinion will allow
to be adopted.  The purpose and obligation to bring our paper money to the standard of coin
have been over and over again announced by acts of Congress, and by the platforms of the great
political parties of the country.  If resolutions and promises would bring about specie payments,
we would have been there long ago; but the diversity of opinion as to the mode now-- twelve
years after the close of the war--still leaves our paper money at a discount of five per cent.
Until this is removed, there will be no new enterprises involving great sums, no active industries,
but money will lie idle, and watch and wait the changes that may be made before we reach the
specie standard.

"In 1869, Congress pledged the public faith that the United States would pay coin for United
States notes.  Again, in January, 1875, after more than a year's debate, Congress declared
that on and after the 1st of January, 1879, the United States would pay its notes in coin.

"The Secretary of the Treasury is expressly required to prepare for, and maintain, the redemption
of all United States notes presented at the treasury on and after that date, and for that purpose
he is authorized to use all the surplus revenues, and to sell bonds of the United States bearing
four, four and a half, and five per cent. interest, at par in coin.  It is this law, called
the resumption act, now so much discussed in the papers, that imposes upon the office I hold
most difficult and important duties, and without replying to any attacks made upon me, I am
anxious to convey to you personally, what I have done, and what I must do, in obedience to
the provisions of this act.  It is said that the law is defective, but, if the great object
and policy of the law is right, the machinery of the law could easily be changed by Congress.
That resumption can be secured, and ought to be secured, under this law, it will be my purpose
to show you, and I shall not hesitate to point out such defects in the law as have occurred
to me in its execution.

"There are two modes of resumption; one is to diminish the amount of notes to be redeemed,
which mode is commonly called a contraction of the currency; the other is to accumulate coin
in the treasury, to enable the secretary to maintain the notes at par."

Objection had been made that under the first mode resumption would be a process of converting
a non-interest bearing note into an interest bearing note, and that was true, but what right
had we, as a nation, or had any bank, or individual, to force in to circulation, as money,
its note upon which it paid no interest? Why ought not anyone who issued a promise to pay on
demand be made to pay it when demanded, or pay interest thereafter?  What right had he, in
law or justice, to insist upon maintaining in circulation his note, which he refused to pay
according to his promise, and which he refused to receive in payment of a note bearing interest?
A certain amount of United States notes could be, and ought to be, maintained at par in coin,
with the aid of a moderate coin reserve held in the treasury, and to the extent that this could
be done they formed the best possible paper money, a debt of the people without interest, of
equal value with coin, and more convenient to carry and handle.  Beyond this the issue of paper
money, either by the government or by banks, was a dangerous exercise of power, injurious to
all citizens, and should not continue a single day beyond the necessities that gave it birth.
I added:

"The one practical defect in the law is, that the secretary is not a liberty to sell bonds
of the United States for United States notes, but must sell them for coin.  As coin is not
in circulation among the people, he is practically prohibited from selling bonds to the people,
except by an evasion of the law, or through private parties.  Bonds are in demand and can readily
be sold at par in coin, and still easier at par, or at a premium, in United States notes. 
The process of selling for United States notes need not go far before the mere fact that they
are receivable for bonds would bring them up to par in coin, and that is specie payments.

"But the reason of the refusal of Congress to grant this authority, often asked of it, was
that it would contract the currency, and this fear of contraction has thus far prevented Congress
from granting the easiest, plainest, and surest mode of resumption.  To avoid contraction,
it provided that national bank notes may be issued without limit as to amount and that, when
issued, United States notes might be retired to the extent of four-fifths of the bank notes
issued.  This was the only provision for redeeming United States notes that Congress made or
would make, and this, it was supposed, would reduce the United States notes to $300,000,000
before January 1, 1879.  The actual experiment only proves the folly of the cry we had for
more money, more money."

The second mode of resuming was by accumulating coin gradually, so that when the time fixed
for resumption should arrive, the treasury might be able to redeem such notes as should be
presented.  In this respect the resumption act was as full and liberal as human language could
frame it.  The secretary was authorized to prepare for resumption, and for that purpose to
use the surplus revenue and sell either of the three classes of bonds, all of which in 1877
were at or above par in coin.  I said:  "The power can be, ought to be, and will be, executed
if not repealed."

This speech was printed in the leading papers in the United States and in England, and was
regarded by the public at large as a declaration of the policy of the administration, to enforce
the resumption law, whatever might be the current of opinion developed at the approaching elections,
which, as they occurred, were generally against the Republican party.  The Democratic party
had taken position against the resumption act, in favor of the enlarged issue of United States
notes and the free coinage of silver.  The strikes led to the organization of labor unions,
which, though independent of political parties, chiefly affected the Republican party then
in power.

Among many letters received by me, after this speech, I insert one from Mr. Evarts:

  "Windsor, Vt., Aug. 30, 1877.
"The Hon. John Sherman, Secretary of the Treasury.

"Dear Mr. Sherman:--I congratulate you upon the excellence and success of your speech in Ohio.
The difficulty of the undertaking justly enhances the credit of its prosperous treatment.

"I inclose a remonstrance from an 'Injustice' on the subject of a new arrangement in the weighing
at the customhouse.  It was sent to me at Washington and forwarded from there here.  I know
nothing of its source and have no opinion on the subject of the supposed project.

"The President's visit has pleased the people in New England amazingly.  I hope to see you
all in Washington early next week.

  "I am very truly yours,
  "Wm. M. Evarts."

On the 14th of September, 1877, I sent to Hon. Stanley Matthews the following letter, giving
my view of the position taken by General Ewing and Mr. Pendleton:

"At the request of General Robinson I have directed to you, in the care of Bickham, a number
of documents for reference in your debate with Ewing, and as Robinson says you wish me to make
suggestions, I venture to do so, but without any confidence that they can be of assistance,
though they can do no harm.

"The most beneficial financial act of the administration is the reduction of the interest on
the public debt.  The amount already accomplished is stated in my printed speech.  The rapidity
of this process depends entirely upon the credit of the government.  Ewing's policy would destroy
our credit and stop the process.  The very doubts created by him and Pendleton have already
damaged the government very largely.  Confidence is so sensitive that when prominent men like
Ewing and Pendleton talk as they do, the injury is immediate.

"The whole difference between the amount of silver and gold at this moment is eight per cent.,
so that the payment of the debt in silver would lessen the burden of the debt eight per cent.,
but under the funding operations, which would be entirely destroyed by anything that alarmed
the market, we are enabled to save thirty-three per cent.  Whatever may be our right to pay
our bonds, either in greenbacks or in silver, this question of expediency, as you very properly
said in one of your speeches, is to be considered apart from the question of legal power.

"Refunding would go on with greatly accelerated speed if we could sell bonds for greenbacks.
We make discrimination against the greenbacks by refusing to take them in payment of bonds.
If I had the power to sell bonds for greenbacks I could make greenbacks equal to coin with
scarcely a perceptible change.  That is the advice of the most sagacious men in the country.
I know it.  There is talk about the bondholder being a privileged person.  He ought to be so
no longer, and the moment that a bond could be bought with currency at par in gold, all discrimination
in favor of the bondholder would disappear.

"The differences among Republicans about silver will be settled by the use of the silver dollar
to the extent that it can be kept in circulation at par with greenbacks, and is a pure question
of detail.  The difference in the Democratic party about interconvertible currency is vital,
and Ewing's doctrine overthrows the whole Democratic theory of finance before the war.

"The existence of the national banks is a question simply of policy and not a question of principle.
The right conferred upon banks to issue circulation is not conferred for their profit, but
for the public convenience, and all Republicans can agree that that right should never be permitted
to exist except when it is for the public convenience.  The office of bank notes is simply
to supply the ebb and flow of currency made necessary by the wants of business. The United
States cannot lend United States notes, and therefore cannot meet this want.  Ewing proposes
to destroy the whole national bank system, interwoven with all the business of the country.
I send you the last statement of the national banks.  You can very easily show the effect upon
the reviving industry of the country of the withdrawal of these loans and disturbing all this
business. As at present organized the circulation is the vital thing, and if the bonds held
by the banks to secure circulation were thrown upon the market, it would stop funding and compel
also the withdrawal of loans, and create distress compared with which our present troubles
are mere moonshine.

"I am afraid you will think I am going on to make a speech for you, so I will stop abruptly,
with the promise that if I can furnish you any documents or information that may be of service
to you I will do so with pleasure.

* * * * *

"I inclose the last statement of the national banks containing many points that may be of use.

"Upon the question of resumption I believe we are all agreed that it must come, and that the
only standard of value is gold or silver coin.  The time and manner are the points of disagreement.
Ewing is opposed to all resumption, but believes in printing a dollar and saying it is a dollar,
while all the world would know that the declaration is a lie.  The fact that we have advanced
the greenbacks six per cent. in one year, by the movements made under the resumption act, shows
that it is working pretty well.  I send you a statement showing the changed condition in a
year of our finances.

"While the people differ about the resumption act there is time to change it if it needs change,
but Ewing would go back and commence the process over again.  I am disposed to be tolerant
about differences on the resumption act, for I think it will demonstrate its success or failure
before Congress is likely to tamper with it."

On the 21st of September I wrote to General J. S. Robinson the following letter, evincing my
anxiety as to the result of the canvass in Ohio, as it was then conducted:

"I am so deeply impressed with the importance of the campaign in Ohio that it makes me uneasy
and restless that I cannot participate in it.

"What a magnificent chance the Republican party in Ohio now has, not only to place itself in
the vanguard in the United States, but to do this country a service as great as any victory
won by the Union army during the war.  Here it is demonstrated by the cordial reception of
the President in the south, by his hearty indorsement in Massachusetts, and by a public sentiment
now growing and spreading with amazing rapidity, that in his southern policy he has opened
the means of order, safety, peace and security in all the southern states.

"Now, when it is demonstrated that the difficulties in the way of resumption were myths conjured
up by the fantasies of demagogues, when our notes are worth within three per cent. of gold,
when Providence has favored us with boundless crops, and prosperity is again coming upon us
after a dreary time of distress and trial caused by inflated paper money, why is it that we
cannot see all these things and avail ourselves of the advantage they give us in our political
contest?  It seems to me that we ought to carry the state by an overwhelming majority, and
if we do so we will establish the beneficial principles of our party beyond danger of overthrow
by reaction, and we will secure the peaceful and orderly development of industry without a
parallel in our previous history.

"I wish it were in my power to impress every Republican in Ohio with my earnest conviction
about this matter, but here, constantly occupied by official duties, I can only remain watching
and waiting in anxious suspense lest the great advantages we possess shall be frittered away
or lost by inaction or mistakes.

"I know you will do your utmost for success, and only write you this to show you how earnestly
I sympathize with you in your efforts."

The election in Ohio, in October, resulted in the defeat of William H. West, Republican, for
governor, mainly on account of his position as to labor unions, but no doubt also because of
a feeling of opposition against the resumption of specie payments.  Richard M. Bishop, Democrat,
was elected governor, with a Democratic legislature in both branches, which subsequently elected
George H. Pendleton as United States Senator.

The following letter expresses my view of the election, and the causes which led to our defeat:

  "Washington, October 17, 1877.
"Dear Sir:--Your letter of the 13th inst. is received.

"Your statement of the causes of our defeat in Ohio seems to me reasonable, though probably
I would not agree with you in many points stated.

"It is not worth while now to bother ourselves about what we cannot help.  All we can do is
to inquire how far we have been right, and to that extent pursue the right, whether victory
or defeat is the result.  No party can administer a government, that will not take the risk
of temporary defeat when it is pursuing what, in the opinion of the great masses of it, is
a beneficial policy for the country.

"So far as the southern question is concerned, I feel that the President did right.  The wisdom
of his executive order as to office holders depends upon the construction given to it, and
he is not responsible for a perverted construction not authorized by its words or terms.  As
to the resumption policy, the law is plain and mandatory, and, more than all, the law is right,
and the Republican party might as well understand first as last, that the question of resumption
is one higher than any party obligations and will be pursued by our adversaries if we do not.
We can gain the credit of success, but we can gain no credit by retreating on this vital question.
While the law stands nothing is left but to execute it, and for one I never would aid to alter
the law, except to make it more effective, and would be very willing to retire on this question
rather than to surrender.

"The only way is for us to go steadily forward, with a certainty that public opinion in the
end will sustain us if we do what is substantially right.  The Republican party has been in
this position many times and has never won success by retreat and cannot do so now.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"A. P. Miller, Esq., Toledo, Ohio."

It became necessary for the President to call an extra session of Congress, on account of the
failure of the passage of the army bill at the previous session.  Though the proclamation was
issued on the 5th of May, 1877, Congress was not convened until the 15th of October following.
Both Houses met on the day appointed.  The Senate was organized by the election of Thomas W.
Ferry, of Michigan, as president pro tempore, and Samuel J. Randall, a Democratic Member from
Pennsylvania, was elected speaker of the House by a majority of seventeen over James A. Garfield,
the Republican candidate.

The message of the President was confined mainly to the circumstances connected with the failure
of the previous Congress to provide for the support of the army, and to certain deficiencies
in appropriations required for the government, the President stating that as certain acts of
Congress, providing for reports of the government officials, required their submission at the
regular annual session, he deferred until that time any further reference to subjects of popular
interest.

Congress, however, not being confined in its powers, and having full jurisdiction of all legislative
questions, proceeded at once to discuss financial questions and especially the measures taken
for the resumption of specie payments.  No less than four bills were introduced in the Senate
and fourteen in the House, providing for the repeal, in whole or in part, of the act for the
resumption of specie payments.  One of these bills was reported from the committee on banking
and currency, by Mr. Ewing, on the 31st of October.  It was the subject of debate during the
remaining period of the session, and finally passed the House on the 23rd of November, by the
vote of 133 yeas and 120 nays.  It repealed all that part of the resumption act which authorized
the Secretary of the Treasury to dispose of United States bonds, and to redeem and cancel the
greenback currency, or practically all the resumption act except the clauses for the substitution
of silver coin for fractional currency.  It was sent to the Senate on the 26th of November,
and referred to the committee on finance.  No action was taken upon it during that session,
which adjourned on the 3rd of December.  The regular session convened on the same day, with
this bill still pending in the committee on finance.  On the 17th of April, 1878, Mr. Ferry,
from that committee, reported back the bill with an amendment to strike out all after the enacting
clause, and insert new matter.  After a long debate ending on the 13th of June, the following
amendment was adopted as a substitute for Mr. Ferry's amendment, by a vote of yeas 30, nays 29:

"That from and after the passage of this act United States notes shall be receivable the same
as coin in payment for the four per cent. bonds now authorized by law to be issued; and on
and after October 1, 1878, said notes shall be receivable for duties on imports."

The bill, as amended, passed the Senate by a large majority.  In this form it had no proper
relevancy to the bill as it passed the House, and the action of the Senate was regarded as
a practical defeat of the bill.  It was taken up in the House on the 14th of June, and the
question being taken on concurring in the amendment of the Senate, the vote was yeas 112, nays
122, so the motion was disagreed to.  On the 17th of June, a motion was made to suspend the
rules and proceed to the consideration of the bill, but as two- thirds did not vote in favor
of the motion it was not adopted, and the bill was not called up for action until the next
session of Congress, when Mr. Ewing, on February 22, 1879, reported it from the committee on
banking and currency, and moved to concur in the Senate amendments, with amendments changing
the date on which the act should take effect, and also adding, "that the money hereafter received
from any sale of bonds of the United States shall be applied only to the redemption of other
bonds bearing a higher rate of interest, and subject to call."

This motion came too late, as the whole subject-matter had been disposed of by the resumption
of specie payments on the 1st of January previous.  It led, however, to a considerable debate
in which Mr. Garfield participated.  He made a humorous allusion to the revival of controversies
that were past and gone since the 1st of January, and moved to lay the bill and the amendments
upon the table.  That was adopted by a vote of yeas 141, nays 118.

I have given the official history of the efforts to repeal the resumption act, but it would
be beyond the limits of this book to quote, or even state, the copious speeches for and against
resumption. I felt secure, for if such a bill should pass, the executive veto would prevent
any action by Congress that would interfere with the execution of the law.  My principal effort
was to convince Congress that it ought not to interfere with what the House called a destructive
experiment, but what I regarded as an easy and beneficial execution of existing law.  A large
part of the opposition was purely political.  The resumption act was a Republican measure,
voted for only by Republicans.  The Democratic party had, by the elections just previous to
its taking effect, secured a majority in the House, and, with the aid of a few Republican Senators,
with strong "greenback" proclivities, had the control of the Senate on the financial question.

This political condition in the fall of 1877 tended to prevent the sale of four per cent. bonds
after the close of the popular loan. My official correspondence with members of the syndicate,
and with Mr. Conant, published by order of the House of Representatives in the volume "Specie
Resumption and Refunding of the National Debt," shows fully the earnest effort made by me to
sell the four per cent. bonds.  This was successful to a slight degree in August and September,
but sales were substantially suspended after that date, until it became manifest that the two
Houses could not agree upon the repeal of the resumption act, or the remonetization of silver.
The threatened measure for the free coinage of silver, and the fear that the bonds would be
paid in silver coin less valuable than the gold coin paid for them, tended, more than the efforts
to repeal the resumption, to prevent the sale of bonds.

  "Mansfield, Ohio, August 18, 1877.
"Dear Mr. Conant:--Your letter of the 4th was forwarded to me here.
I notice what you say about the calls, but you must remember that
out of the sales of four per cent. bonds we must provide five
millions gold for each of the months of September and October, so
that for ten millions of bonds there must be no calls.  I should
have informed you of this sooner, but neglected to do so before
leaving.  The parties in New York, and no doubt the Rothschilds,
have been advised of it and agree to it.  Until the popular
subscription is paid for it will be difficult to press the sale of
the four per cents., but I hope in September the sales will commence
and be pushed rapidly.  The movement of the crop has already
commenced.  The strike seems to be ended, with a better feeling
among laborers, and some advance in freight.  The necessity of the
trunk lines combining on freight is so clear that it is likely to
result in some agreement that will stand.

"I made a speech here yesterday, which no doubt will be received by you in the New York papers
in due time, and which contains some matters affecting your operations.  It is substantially
in conformity with the general wish of the administration as to financial affairs, and it might
be well for you to call the attention of the Rothschilds to that part of it relating to our
loans and the basis of our credit.

"I return next week to Washington, where I will again be happy to hear from you.

  "Very truly,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

Mr. Conant answered as follows:

  "New Court, St. Swithin's Lane,          }
  "London, E. C., England, August 23, 1877.}
"Dear Mr. Secretary:--I was very glad indeed to receive your letter
of the 6th instant.  I at once informed the contracting parties of
what you had written in reference to the strikes and riots at home.
The sale of our bonds has not been directly interfered with on
account of the riots.  In fact, the occurrence of the riots has
almost been forgotten.  The London 'Times,' of this morning, has,
however, revived the subject by printing a letter from its Philadelphia
correspondent, in which he says that the strikers, it is evident,
are to get into politics through the organization of a party, to
be called the 'Workingmen's party;' and he predicts that mischief
will come out of it through the control of state governments which
the mob element may gain; and the consequent enactment of bad laws,
etc., especially against capital.  Another letter is also printed
(written by a Mr. Connolly), by which it is made to appear that
American is in a terrible financial condition.  These two letters
are made the subject of an editorial which, on the whole, is not
very complimentary to us, nor calculated to improve our credit.
The 'Times' of last Monday's date had an editorial on the speech
which you made in Ohio on Friday last.  I send you a copy, and
think, if you can find time, you will rather enjoy reading the
article.  Nearly all of the English people, as you are aware,
believe in the principle of 'free trade,' and it is but natural
that they should, for the reason that England depends upon her
great commerce and her markets in every part of the globe for the
employment and maintenance of her people.  People here think that
our protectionist tariffs are not only detrimental to the commercial
interest of our own country, but that they are of a suicidal
character so far as our fiscal policy is concerned.  They think,
in other words, that it would be vastly better for the real interest
of the people of the United States if they would trade more
extensively with the people of England.  What the 'Times' editor
has to say about the balance of trade will amuse you, and yet people
talk about the advantages of a balance of trade as being an exploded
idea.  English interests are laboring to effect a new treaty with
France, under which large reductions in duties are proposed.

"I note what you are pleased to say in regard to sales of bonds during the present month. 
With the price of bonds at the present moment they cannot of course be sold.  The parties will
find it necessary to use great caution as well as care in managing the market, so as to get
control of it.  Any attempt to force the sale of the bonds during this, and, I think, next
month will only operate to keep the price so low that they cannot be sold at all.  I am firm
in the belief that the premium on gold will go gradually lower, and that the balance of trade
in our favor will keep forcing it down.

  "I remain your obedient servant,
  "Chas. F. Conant.
"Hon. John Sherman."

He again wrote on the 30th of August:

"On Tuesday last a further amount of gold (£130,000) was withdrawn from the Bank of England
for shipment to the United States, and for the purpose of protecting its stock of bullion the
bank immediately advanced its rate to three per cent., and also increased the price of American
eagles.

"Great Britain must obtain from us this season a large supply of breadstuffs and grain, larger
than has been required in any one year during several years past, and at higher prices than
those heretofore paid, and, in the present condition of trade between the two countries, gold,
to quite an extent, will have to be sent over in payment for these articles.  Therefore, advancing
the rate of interest may check for a time, but will not stop altogether, the shipment of bullion,
but it may attract here some of the gold held by the Bank of France.  The bank rate does not
govern the street rate, and a further advance by the bank, which it is very likely may be made,
is not to be considered as indicating that we are to have a dearer money market.  I inquired
to-day of Mr. Morgan and the Messrs. Rothschild what they thought of the prospects of making
any sales during next month, and their answer was:  'Wait patiently for the market to recuperate.'
I am satisfied that good investment securities are scarce here; that they have been cleared
from the market, and that as soon as the question of cheap or dear money is settled, sales
of the four per cent. consols will be resumed.  The amount of the sales will of course depend
upon which way the question is settled.  There were times during the placing of the five per
cent. and four and a half per cent. bonds when, as you are aware, operations were suspended
for quite a time, the condition of the market being such as to prevent anything being done.
From semi-official accounts it appears that the famine in India is a very serious affair, and
it is quite possible that large sums of money will be required from here with which to purchase
supplies."

My experience thus far convinced me that it was bad public policy to continue the sale of bonds
for refunding purposes through a syndicate of bankers, the chief of whom resided in London.
I could see no reason why this function could not be performed by national banks, better than
by bankers at home or abroad.  A question arose whether the Secretary of the Treasury had the
power to designate national banks as public depositaries of the proceeds of bonds sold under
the resumption and refunding acts.  The object to be gained by this designation was to prevent
the withdrawal of coin from circulation, and the undue accumulation of coin in the treasury
of the United States.  If the exchange of one bond by another could be directly effected through
the banks without the payment of coin, it would facilitate the process of refunding.  I submitted
this inquiry to Attorney General Devens, and on the 30th of August he stated his opinion and
closed as follows:

"In answer to your inquiry, I have, therefore, the honor to say that the Secretary of the Treasury,
if he deems it expedient as a matter of administrative policy, may sell bonds under the act
known as the 'refunding' and 'resumption' acts, depositing the amounts received therefrom with
such public depositaries as he may select under the national bank act, taking such security
as is required by the statutes."

The last of the popular subscriptions for the four per cent. bonds became due on the 16th of
October, and all were paid for but three subscriptions aggregating $1,600, and these were assumed
by the syndicate.  The bonds had been paid for by the syndicate either by called six per cent.
bonds, which were canceled, or in gold coin deposited in the treasury, without the loss of
a dollar.  The called session of Congress, which met on the 15th of October, and the agitation
of the repeal of the resumption act and the remonetization of silver, prevented for the time
any further sales of the four per cent. bonds by the government.

Mr. Sherman in His Library at Washington, D. C., 1895.  Frontispiece Rutherford B. Hayes President
Hayes and Cabinet John Sherman (Chamber of Commerce Portrait.) Inauguration of President Garfield
Thurman, Sumner, Wade, Chase (Group.) James A. Garfield Chester A. Arthur Invitation to Blaine's
Eulogy of Garfield United States Senate Chamber Invitation to Washington Monument Dedication
Meeting of the Surviving Members of the Sherman Family John A. Logan James G. Blaine Surviving
Members of the 34th Congress (Taken in 1888.) Representative Ohio Men--Schenck, Cox, Pendleton
Court House at Mansfield, Ohio.  1895 Mr. Sherman's Washington Residence, "K" Street Hallway
in Mr. Sherman's Washington Residence Dining Room in Mr. Sherman's Washington Residence

AUTOGRAPH LETTERS VOLUME II.

J. M. Rusk, April 14, 1878 Jay Gould, October 17, 1878 Whitelaw Reid, March 29, 1878 John Jay,
February 3, 1879 John W. Foster, December 15, 1878 James G. Blaine, July 3, 1879 George Bancroft,
February 22, 1881 John G. Whittier, February 8, 1885 U. S. Grant, January 27, 1885 S. S. Cox,
January 23, 1886 W. T. Sherman, February 3, 1891

TABLE OF CONTENTS. VOLUME II.

CHAPTER XXXI. EFFECT OF THE BLAND BILL ON THE COUNTRY. An Act Passed by the House Providing
for the Free Coinage of the Silver Dollar--Mr. Ewing Makes an Attack on Resumption--Fear of
Capitalists Regarding Our National Credit--Four Per Cents. Sell Below Par--Suspense and Anxiety
Continued Throughout the Year--My First Report as Secretary of the Treasury--Recommendations
of a Policy to be Pursued "To Strengthen the Public Credit"--Substitution of $50,000,000 in
Silver Coin for Fractional Currency--Silver as a Medium of Circulation--Its Fluctuation in
Value--Importance of Gold as a Standard of Value--Changes in the Market Value of Silver Since 1873.

CHAPTER XXXII. ENACTMENT OF THE BLAND-ALLISON SILVER LAW. Amendments to the Act Reported by
the Committee on Finance--Revival of a Letter Written by Me in 1868--Explained in Letter to
Justin S. Morrill Ten Years Later--Text of the Bland Silver Bill as Amended by the Senate and
Agreed to by the House--Vetoed by President Hayes --Becomes a Law Notwithstanding His Objections--I
Decide to Terminate the Existing Contract with the Syndicate--Subscriptions Invited for Four
per Cent. Bonds--Preparations for Resumption--Interviews with Committees of Both Houses--Condition
of the Bank of England as Compared with the United States Treasury--Mr. Buckner Changes His
Views Somewhat.

CHAPTER XXXIII. SALE OF BONDS FOR RESUMPTION PURPOSES. Arrangements Begun for the Disposal
of $50,000,000 for Gold or Bullion--Interviews with Prominent Bankers in New York--Proposition
in Behalf of the National Banks--Terms of the Contract Made with the Syndicate--Public Comment
at the Close of the Negotiations-- "Gath's" Interview with Me at the Completion of the Sale--Eastern
Press Approves the Contract, While the West Was Either Indifferent or Opposed to it--Senate
Still Discussing the Expediency of Repealing the Resumption Act--Letter to Senator Ferry--Violent
and Bitter Animosity Aroused Against Me--I Am Charged with Corruption--Interview with and Reply
to Letter of Peter Cooper--Clarkson N. Potter's Charges.

CHAPTER XXXIV. A SHORT RESPITE FROM OFFICIAL DUTIES. Visit to Mansfield and Other Points in
Ohio--Difficulty of Making a Speech at Toledo--An Attempt to Break up a Meeting that Did Not
Succeed--Various Reports of the Gathering--Good Work of the Cincinnati "Enquirer"--Toledo People
Wanted "More Money"--Remarks Addressed to the Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce--Visit to Lancaster,
the Place of My Birth--My Return to Washington--I Begin to Exchange Silver Dollars for United
States Notes--My Authority to Do So Before January 1 Questioned--The Order is Withdrawn and
Some Criticism Follows--Instructions to the United States Treasurer and Others-- Arrangements
with New York Clearing House.

CHAPTER XXXV. INVESTIGATION OF THE NEW YORK CUSTOMHOUSE. A General Examination of Several Ports
Ordered--No Difficulty Except at New York--First Report of the Commission--President Hayes'
Recommendations--Letter of Instructions to Collector C. A. Arthur --Second Report of the Commission--Losses
to the Government by Reason of Inefficiency of Employees--Various Measures of Reform Recommended--Four
Other Reports Made--The President Decides on the Removal of Arthur, Cornell and Sharpe--Two
Letters to R. C. McCormick on the Subject--Arthur et al. Refuse to Resign--The Senate Twice
Refuses to Confirm the Men Appointed by the President to Succeed Them--Conkling's Contest Against
Civil Service Reform--My Letter to Senator Allison--Final Victory of the President.

CHAPTER XXXVI. PREPARATIONS FOR RESUMPTION OF SPECIE PAYMENTS. Annual Report to Congress on
Dec. 2, 1878--Preparations for Resumption Accompanied with Increased Business and Confidence--Full
Explanation of the Powers of the Treasurer Under the Act--How Resumption Was to Be Accomplished--Laws
Effecting the Coinage of Gold and Silver --Recommendation to Congress That the Coinage of the
Silver Dollar Be Discontinued When the Amount Outstanding Should Exceed $50,000,000 --Funding
the Public Debt--United States Notes at Par with Gold-- Instructions to the Assistant Treasurer
at New York--Political Situation in Ohio.

CHAPTER XXXVII. REFUNDING THE NATIONAL DEBT. Over $140,000,000 of Gold Coin and Bullion in
the Treasury January 1, 1879--Diversity of Opinion as to the Meaning of Resumption-- Effect
of the Act to Advance Public Credit--Funding Redeemable Bonds Into Four per Cents.--Letters
to Levi P. Morton and Others-- Six per Cent. Bonds Aggregating $120,000,000 Called During January,
1879--The Sale in London--Charges of Favoritism--Further Enactments to Facilitate the Funding--Difficulty
of Making Sales of Four per Cent. Bonds to English Bankers--Large Amounts Taken in the United
States--One Subscription of $190,000,000--Rothschild's Odd Claim-- Complimentary Resolution
of the New York Chamber of Commerce.

CHAPTER XXXVIII. GENERAL DESIRE TO NOMINATE ME FOR GOVERNOR OF OHIO. Death of My Brother Charles--The
46th Congress Convened in Special Session--"Mending Fences" at My Home in Mansfield--Efforts
to Put Me Forward as a Candidate for the Governorship of Ohio--Letter to Murat Halstead on
the Question of the Presidency, etc.--Result of My Letter to John B. Haskin--Reasons of My
Refusal of the Nomination for Governor--Invitation from James G. Blaine to Speak in Maine--
My Speech at Portland--Victory of the Republican Party--My Speech at Steubenville, Ohio--Evidences
of Prosperity on Every Hand--Visit to Cincinnati and Return to Washington--Results in Ohio.

CHAPTER XXXIX. LAST DAYS OF THE HAYES ADMINISTRATION. Invitation From General Arthur to Speak
in New York--Letter to Hon. John Jay on the Subject--Mr. Evarts' Refined Specimen of Egotism--
An Anecdote of the Hayes Cabinet--Duty of the Government to Protect the Election of All Federal
Officers--My Speech in Cooper Institute --Offers of Support to Elect Me as a Successor of Senator
Thurman --My Replies--Republican Victory in New York--President Hayes' Message to Congress--My
Report as Secretary of the Treasury-- Modification of My Financial Views Since that Time--Bank
Notes as Currency--Necessity for Paper Money--Mr. Bayard's Resolution Concerning the Legal
Tender Quality of United States Notes--Questions Asked Me by the Finance Committee of the Senate.

CHAPTER XL. THE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION IN 1880. Talk of Grant for President for a Third Term--His
Triumphal Return from a Trip Around the World--The Candidacy of Mr. Blaine and Myself --Many
of My Opponents Those Who Disagreed with Me on Financial Questions--Accused of Being a Catholic
and of Using Patronage to Aid in My Nomination--My Replies--Delay in Holding the Ohio State
Convention--My Interview with Garfield--Resolution of the State Convention in My Favor--National
Convention at Chicago, on June 2, 1880--Fatal Move of Nine Ohio Delegates for Blaine--Final
Nomination of Garfield--Congratulations--Letter to Governor Foster and to Garfield--Wade Hampton
and the "Ku-Klux Klan."

CHAPTER XLI. MY LAST YEAR IN THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT. Opening of the 1880 Campaign in Cincinnati--My
First Speech Arraigned as "Bitterly Partisan"--Letter from Garfield Regarding the Maine Election--Ohio
Thought to Be in Doubt--Many Requests for Speeches --Republican Ticket Elected in Ohio and
Indiana--A Strange Warning from Detroit Threatening Garfield with Assassination--The Latter's
Reply--My Doubts About Remaining in the Treasury Department or Making an Effort for the Senate--Letter
to Dalzell--Last Annual Report to Congress in December, 1880--Recommendations Regarding Surplus
Revenue, Compulsory Coinage of the Silver Dollar, the Tariff, etc.--Bills Acted Upon by Congress.

CHAPTER XLII. ELECTED TO THE SENATE FOR THE FOURTH TIME. Blaine Appointed Secretary of State--Withdrawal
of Governor Foster as a Senatorial Candidate--I Am Again Elected to My Old Position to Succeed
Allen G. Thurman--My Visit to Columbus to Return Thanks to the Legislature--Address to Boston
Merchants on Finances--Windom Recommended to Succeed Me as Secretary of the Treasury--Personal
Characteristics of Garfield--How He Differed from President Hayes --The Latter's Successful
Administration--My One Day out of Office in Over Forty Years--Long Animosity of Don Piatt and
His Change of Opinion in 1881--Mahone's Power in the Senate--Windom's Success in the Treasury--The
Conkling-Platt Controversy with the President Over New York Appointments.

CHAPTER XLIII. ASSASSINATION OF GARFIELD AND EVENTS FOLLOWING. I Return to Mansfield for a
Brief Period of Rest--Selected as Presiding Officer of the Ohio State Convention--My Address
to the Delegates Indorsing Garfield and Governor Foster--Kenyon College Confers on Me the Degree
of Doctor of Laws--News of the Assassination of the President--How He Differed from Blaine--Visit
of General Sherman--Reception by Old Soldiers--My Trip to Yellowstone Park-- Speechmaking at
Salt Lake City--Visit to Virginia City--Placer Mining in Montana--The Western Hunter Who Was
Lost in a "St. Louis Cañon"--Sunday in Yellowstone Park--Geysers in the Upper Basin-- Rolling
Stones Down the Valley--Return Home--Opening of the Ohio Campaign--Death of Garfield.

CHAPTER XLIV. BEGINNING OF ARTHUR'S ADMINISTRATION. Special Session of the Senate Convened
by the President--Abuse of Me by Newspapers and Discharged Employees--Charges Concerning Disbursement
of the Contingent Fund--My Resolution in the Senate-- Secretary Windom's Letter Accompanying
the Meline Report--Investigation and Complete Exoneration--Arthur's Message to Congress in
December --Joint Resolutions on the Death of Garfield--Blaine's Tribute to His Former Chief--Credit
of the United States at "High Water Mark" --Bill Introduced Providing for the Issuing of Three
per Cent. Bonds--Corporate Existence of National Banks Extended--Bill to Reduce Internal Revenue
Taxes--Tax on Playing Cards--Democratic Victory in Ohio.

CHAPTER XLV. STEPS TOWARDS MUCH NEEDED TARIFF LEGISLATION. Necessity of Relief from Unnecessary
Taxation--Views of the President as Presented to Congress in December, 1882--Views of the Tariff
Commission Appointed by the President--Great Changes Made by the Senate--Regret That I Did
Not Defeat the Bill--Wherein Many Sections Were Defective or Unjust--Bill to Regulate and Improve
the Civil Service--A Mandatory Provision That Should be Added to the Existing Law--Further
Talk of Nominating Me for Governor of Ohio--Reasons Why I Could Not Accept--Selected as Chairman
of the State Convention --Refusal to Be Nominated--J. B. Foraker Nominated by Acclamation --His
Career--Issues of the Campaign--My Trip to Montana--Resuming the Canvass--Hoadley Elected Governor--Retirement
of Gen. Sherman.

CHAPTER XLVI. EFFECT OF THE MARINE NATIONAL BANK AND OTHER FAILURES. Continued Prosperity of
the Nation--Arthur's Report to Congress-- Resolution to Inquire into Election Outrages in Virginia
and Mississippi--Reports of the Investigating Committee--Financial Questions Discussed During
the Session--Duties and Privileges of Senators--Failure of the Marine National Bank and of
Grant and Ward in New York--Followed By a Panic in Which Other Institutions Are Wrecked--Timely
Assistance from the New York Clearing House--Debate in the Senate on the National Bank System--Dedication
of the John Marshall Statue at Washington--Defeat of Ingalls' Arrears of Pensions Amendment
to Bill to Grant Pensions to Soldiers and Sailors of the Mexican War--The Senate Listens to
the Reading of the Declaration of Independence on July 4.

CHAPTER XLVII. MY PARTICIPATION IN THE CAMPAIGN OF 1884. Again Talked of as a Republican Candidate
for the Presidency--I Have No Desire for the Nomination--Blaine the Natural Candidate of the
Party--My Belief that Arthur Would be Defeated if Nominated-- Speech at Washington, D. C.,
for Blaine and Logan--Opening of the Ohio Campaign at Ashland--Success of the Republican State
Ticket in October--Speeches in Boston, Springfield, Mass., New York and Brooklyn--Address to
Business Men in Faneuil Hall--Success of the National Democratic Ticket--Arthur's Annual Message
to Congress-- Secretary McCulloch's Recommendations Concerning the Further Coinage of Silver
Dollars--Statement of My Views at This Time--Statue to the Memory of General Lafayette--Controversy
Between General Sherman and Jefferson Davis.

CHAPTER XLVIII. DEDICATION OF THE WASHINGTON MONUMENT. Resolution of Senator Morrill Providing
for Appropriate Dedicatory Ceremonies--I Am Made Chairman of the Commission--Robert C. Winthrop's
Letter Stating His Inability to Attend the Exercises--Letters of Regret from General Grant
and John G. Whittier--Unfavorable Weather for the Dedication--My Address as Presiding Officer--The
President's Acceptance of the Monument for the Nation--Mr. Winthrop's Address Read in the House
by John D. Long--Inauguration of the First Democratic President Since Buchanan's Time--Visit
to Cincinnati and Address on the Election Frauds--Respects to the Ohio Legislature --A Trip
to the West and Southwest--Address on American Independence.

CHAPTER XLIX. REUNION OF THE "SHERMAN BRIGADE." Patriotic Address Delivered at Woodstock, Conn.,
On My Return from the Pacific Coast--Meeting of the Surviving Members of the Sherman Family
at Mansfield--We Attend the Reunion of the "Sherman Brigade" at Odell's Lake--Addresses of
General Sherman and Myself to the Old Soldiers and Others Present--Apathy of the Republican
Party During the Summer of 1885--Contest Between Foraker and Hoadley for the Governorship--My
Speech at Mt. Gilead Denounced as "Bitterly Partisan"--Governor Hoadley Accuses Me of "Waving
the Bloody Shirt" --My Reply at Lebanon--Election of Foraker--Frauds in Cincinnati and Columbus--Speeches
Made in Virginia.

CHAPTER L. ELECTED PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE OF THE SENATE. Death of Vice President Hendricks--I
Am Chosen to Preside Over the United States Senate--Letter of Congratulation from S. S. Cox--
Cleveland's First Annual Message to Congress--His Views on the Tariff and Condition of Our
Currency--Secretary Manning's Report-- Garfield's Statue Presented to the Nation by the State
of Ohio--I Am Elected a Senator from Ohio for the Fifth Time--I Go to Columbus to Return Thanks
to the Legislature for the Honor--Business of this Session of Congress--Attempt to Inquire
Into the Methods of Electing Mr. Payne to the Senate from Ohio--My Address on "Grant and the
New South"--Address Before the Ohio Society of New York.

CHAPTER LI. A PERIOD OF POLITICAL SPEECH MAKING. Organization of the "Sherman Club" at Mansfield,
Ohio--My Experiences with Newspaper Reporters--Address at the State Fair in Columbus on Agricultural
Implements--Other Speeches Made in the Campaign of that Year--Address at Louisville, Ky.--Courteous
Treatment by Henry Watterson, of the "Courier Journal"--Hon. John Q. Smith's Change of Heart--Answering
Questions Propounded by Him at a Gathering in Wilmington, Ohio--Success of the Republican Party--Second
Session of the 49th Congress--But Little Legislation Accomplished--Death of Senator John A.
Logan--Tributes to His Memory--His Strong Characteristics--My Reason for Resigning the Presidency
of the Senate--Succeeded by John J. Ingalls.

CHAPTER LII. VISIT TO CUBA AND THE SOUTHERN STATES. Departure for Florida and Havana--A Walk
Through Jacksonville-- Impressions of the Country--Visit to Cigar Factories and Other Places
of Interest--Impressions of Cuba--Experience with Colored Men at a Birmingham Hotel--The Proprietor
Refuses to Allow a Delegation to Visit Me in My Rooms--Sudden Change of Quarters-- Journey
to Nashville and the Hearty Reception Which Followed--Visit to the Widow of President Polk--My
Address to Nashville Citizens-- Comment from the Press That Followed It--An Audience of Workingmen
at Cincinnati--Return Home--Trip to Woodbury, Conn., the Home of My Ancestors--Invitation to
Speak in the Hall of the House of Representatives at Springfield, Ill.--Again Charged with
"Waving the Bloody Shirt."

CHAPTER LIII. INDORSED FOR PRESIDENT BY THE OHIO STATE CONVENTION. I Am Talked of as a Presidential
Possibility--Public Statement of My Position--Unanimous Resolution Adopted by the State Convention
at Toledo on July 28, 1887--Text of the Indorsement--Trip Across the Country with a Party of
Friends--Visit to the Copper and Nickel Mining Regions--Stop at Winnipeg--A Day at Banff--Vast
Snowsheds Along the Canadian Pacific Railroad--Meeting with Carter H. Harrison on Puget Sound--Rivalry
Between Seattle and Tacoma--Trying to Locate "Mount Tacoma"--Return Home After a Month's Absence--Letter
to General Sherman--Visit to the State Fair--I Attend a Soldiers' Meeting at Bellville--Opening
Campaign Speech at Wilmington--Talk to Farmers in New York State--Success of the Republican
Ticket in Ohio--Blaine Declines to Be a Candidate.

CHAPTER LIV. CLEVELAND'S EXTRAORDINARY MESSAGE TO CONGRESS. First Session of the 50th Congress--The
President's "Cry of Alarm" --Troubled by the Excess of Revenues over Expenditures--My Answer
to His Doctrines--His Refusal to Apply the Surplus to the Reduction of the Public Debt--The
Object in Doing So--My Views Concerning Protection and the Tariff--In Favor of a Tariff Commission--"Mills
Bill" the Outcome of the President's Message--Failure of the Bill During the Second Session--My
Debates with Senator Beck on the Coinage Act of 1873, etc.--Omission of the Old Silver Dollar--Death
of Chief Justice Waite--Immigration of Chinese Laborers--Controversy with Senator Vest--Speech
on the Fisheries Question--Difficulties of Annexation with Canada.

CHAPTER LV. REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTION OF 1888. Majority of the Ohio Delegates Agree to
Support Me for President-- Cleveland and Thurman Nominated by the Democrats--I Am Indorsed
by the State Convention Held at Dayton, April 18-19--My Response to a Toast at the Americus
Club, Pittsburg, on Grant--Meeting with Prominent Men in New York--Foraker's Reply to Judge
West's Declaration Concerning Blaine--Blaine's Florence Letter to Chairman Jones--His Opinion
of My Qualifications for the Honorable Position--Meeting of the Convention in Chicago in June--I
Am Nominated by General D. H. Hastings and Seconded by Governor Foraker--Jealousy Between the
Ohio Delegates--Predictions of My Nomination on Monday, June 25-- Defeated by a Corrupt New
York Bargain--General Harrison is Nominated --Letters from the President Elect--My Replies--First
Speeches of the Campaign--Harrison's Victory--Second Session of the 50th Congress --The President's
Cabinet.

CHAPTER LVI. FOUR AND A HALF MONTHS IN EUROPE. Our Party Takes Its Departure on the "City of
New York" on May 1-- Personnel of the Party--Short Stop in London--Various Cities in Italy
Visited--Sight-Seeing in Rome--Journey to Pompeii and Naples --Impressions of the Inhabitants
of Southern Italy--An Amusing Incident Growing Out of the Ignorance of Our Courier--Meeting
with Mr. Porter, Minister to Rome--Four Days in Florence--Venice Wholly Unlike Any Other City
in the World--Favorable Impression of Vienna --Arrival at Paris--Reception by the President
of the Republic of France--Return Home--My Opinion Concerning England and Englishmen --Reception
at Washington--Campaigning Again for Foraker--Ohio Ballot Box Forgery and Its Outcome--Address
at Cleveland on "The Congress of American States"--Defeat of Foraker for Governor.

CHAPTER LVII. HISTORY OF THE "SHERMAN SILVER LAW." President Harrison's First Annual Message--His
Recommendations Regarding the Coinage of Silver and Tariff Revisions--Bill Authorizing the
Purchase of $4,500,000 Worth of Silver Bullion Each Month-- Senator Plumb's "Free Silver" Amendment
to the House Bill--Substitute Finally Agreed Upon in Conference--Since Known as the "Sherman
Silver Law"--How It Came to Be so Called--Chief Merit of the Law-- Steady Decline of Silver
After the Passage of the Act--Bill Against Trusts and Combinations--Amendments in Committee--The
Bill as Passed --Evils of Unlawful Combinations--Death of Representative Wm. D. Kelley and
Ex-Member S. S. Cox--Sketch of the Latter--My Views Regarding Immigration and Alien Contract
Labor--McKinley Tariff Law--What a Tariff Is--Death of George H. Pendleton--Republican Success
in Ohio--Second Session of the 51st Congress--Failure of Senator Stewart's "Free Coinage Bill."

CHAPTER LVIII. EFFORTS TO CONSTRUCT THE NICARAGUAN CANAL. Early Recognition of the Need of
a Canal Across the Isthmus Connecting North and South America--M. de Lesseps Attempts to Build
a Water Way at Panama--Feasability of a Route by Lake Nicaragua-- First Attempts in 1825 to
Secure Aid from Congress--The Clayton- Bulwer Convention of 1850--Hindrance to the Work Caused
by This Treaty--Report of the Committee on Foreign Relations in 1891-- Failure to Secure a
Treaty Between the United States and Nicaragua in 1884--Cleveland's Reasons for Withdrawing
This Treaty--Incorporation of the Maritime Canal Company of Nicaragua--Inevitable Failure of
Their Attempts Unless Aided by the Government--Why We Should Purchase Outright the Concessions
of the Maritime Company--Brief Description of the Proposed Canal--My Last Letter from General
Sherman--His Death from Pneumonia After a Few Days' Illness--Messages of President Harrison--Resolution--My
Commemorative Address Delivered Before the Loyal Legion.

CHAPTER LIX. THE CAMPAIGN OF 1890-91 IN OHIO. Public Discussion of My Probable Re-election
to the Senate--My Visit to the Ohio Legislature in April, 1891--Reception at the Lincoln League
Club--Address to the Members--Appointed by the Republicans as a Delegate to the State Convention
at Columbus--Why My Prepared Speech Was Not Delivered--Attack on Me by the Cincinnati "Enquirer"--Text
of the Address Printed in the "State Journal"-- Beginning of a Canvass with Governor Foraker
as a Competitor for the Senatorship--Attitude of George Cox, a Cincinnati Politician, Towards
Me--Attempt to Form a "Farmers' Alliance" or People's Party in Ohio--"Seven Financial Conspiracies"--Mrs.
Emery's Pamphlet and My Reply to It.

CHAPTER LX. FREE SILVER AND PROTECTION TO AMERICAN INDUSTRIES. My Views in 1891 on the Free
Coinage of Silver--Letter to an Ohio Newspaper on the Subject--A Problem for the Next Congress
to Solve --Views Regarding Protection to American Industries by Tariff Laws --My Deep Interest
in This Campaign--Its Importance to the Country at Large--Ohio the Battle Ground of These Financial
Questions-- Opening the Campaign in Paulding Late in August--Extracts from My Speech There--Appeal
to the Conservative Men of Ohio of Both Parties --Address at the State Fair at Columbus--Review
of the History of Tariff Legislation in the United States--Five Republican Principles Pertaining
to the Reduction of Taxes--Speeches at Cleveland, Toledo, Cincinnati and Elsewhere--McKinley's
Election by Over 21,000 Plurality.

CHAPTER LXI. ELECTED TO THE UNITED STATES SENATE FOR THE SIXTH TIME. I Secure the Caucus Nomination
for Senator on the First Ballot-- Foraker and Myself Introduced to the Legislature--My Address
of Thanks to the Members--Speech of Governor Foraker--My Colleague Given His Seat in the Senate
Without Opposition--Message of President Harrison to the 52nd Congress--Morgan's Resolutions
and Speech for the Free Coinage of Silver--Opening of the Silver Debate by Mr. Teller--My Speech
on the Question--Defeat of the Bill in the House --Discussion of the Chinese Question--My Opposition
to the Conference Report on Mr. Geary's Amended Bill--Adopted by the Senate After a Lengthy
Debate--Effect of the Tariff Laws Upon Wages and Prices-- Senator Hale's Resolution--Carlisle's
Speech in Opposition to High Prices--My Reply--Résumé of My Opinions on the Policy of Protection
--Reception by the Ohio Republican Association--Refutation of a Newspaper Slander Upon H. M.
Daugherty--Newspaper Writers and Correspondents--"Bossism" in Hamilton County.

CHAPTER LXII. SECOND ELECTION OF GROVER CLEVELAND. Opposition to General Harrison for the Presidential
Nomination--My Belief That He Could Not Be Elected--Preference for McKinley-- Meeting of the
National Republican Convention at Minneapolis-- Meeting of Republicans at Washington to Ratify
the Ticket--Newspaper Comment on My Two Days' Speech in the Senate on the Silver Question --A
Claim That I Was Not in Harmony with My Party on the Tariff-- My Reply--Opening Speeches for
Harrison and Reid--Publication of My "History of the Republican Party"--First Encounter with
a "Kodak" --Political Addresses in Philadelphia, New York, Cincinnati, Chicago and Milwaukee--Return
to Ohio--Defeat of Harrison.

CHAPTER LXIII. ATTEMPTS TO STOP THE PURCHASE OF SILVER BULLION. My Determination to Press the
Repeal of the Silver Purchasing Clause of the "Sherman Act"--Reply to Criticisms of the Philadelphia
"Ledger"--Announcement of the Death of Ex-President Hayes--Tribute to His Memory--Efforts to
Secure Authority to the Secretary of the Treasury to Sell Bonds to Maintain the Resumption
of United States Notes--The Senate Finally Recedes from the Amendment in Order to Save the
Appropriation Bill--Loss of Millions of Dollars to the Government--Cleveland Again Inducted
Into Office--His Inaugural Address--Efforts to Secure an Appropriation for the "World's Fair"
--Chicago Raises $1,000,000--Congress Finally Decides to Pay the Exposition $2,500,000 in Silver
Coin--I Attend the Dedication of the Ohio Building at the Fair--Address to the Officers and
Crew of the Spanish Caravels.

CHAPTER LXIV. REPEAL OF PART OF THE "SHERMAN ACT" OF 1890. Congress Convened in Extraordinary
Session on August 7, 1893--The President's Apprehension Concerning the Financial Situation--Message
from the Executive Shows an Alarming Condition of the National Finances--Attributed to the
Purchase and Coinage of Silver--Letter to Joseph H. Walker, a Member of the Conference Committee
on the "Sherman Act"--A Bill I Have Never Regretted--Brief History of the Passage of the Law
of 1893--My Speech in the Senate Well Received --Attacked by the "Silver Senators"--General
Debate on the Financial Legislation of the United States--Views of the "Washington Post" on
My Speech of October 17--Repeal Accomplished by the Republicans Supporting a Democratic Administration--The
Law as Enacted--Those Who Uphold the Free Coinage of Silver--Awkward Position of the Democratic
Members--My Efforts in Behalf of McKinley in Ohio--His Election by 81,000 Plurality--Causes
of Republican Victories Throughout the Country.

CHAPTER LXV. PASSAGE OF THE WILSON TARIFF BILL. Second Session of the 53rd Congress--Recommendations
of the President Concerning a Revision of the Tariff Laws--Bill Reported to the House by the
Committee of Ways and Means--Supported by Chairman Wilson and Passed--Received in the Senate--Report
of the Senate Committee on Finance--Passes the Senate with Radical Amendments-- These are Finally
Agreed to by the House--The President Refuses to Approve the Bill--Becomes a Law After Ten
Days--Defects in the Bill --Not Satisfactory to Either House, the President or the People--
Mistakes of the Secretary of the Treasury--No Power to Sell Bonds or to Borrow Money to Meet
Current Deficiencies--Insufficient Revenue to Support the Government--A Remedy That Was Not
Adopted-- Gross Injustice of Putting Wool on the Free List--McKinley Law Compared with the
Wilson Bill--Sufficient Revenue Furnished by the Former--I Am Criticized for Supporting the
President and Secretary.

CHAPTER LXVI. SENIORITY OF SERVICE IN THE SENATE. Notified That My Years of Service Exceed
Those of Thomas Benton-- Celebration of the Sons of the American Revolution at the Washington
Monument--My Address to Those Present--Departure for the West with General Miles--Our Arrival
at Woodlake, Nebraska--Neither "Wood" nor "Lake"--Enjoying the Pleasures of Camp Life--Bound
for Big Spring, South Dakota--Return via Sioux City, St. Paul and Minneapolis --Marvelous Growth
of the "Twin Cities"--Publication of the "Sherman Letters" by General Sherman's Daughter Rachel--First
Political Speech of the Campaign at Akron--Republican Victory in the State of Ohio--Return
to Washington for the Winter of 1894-95--Marriage of Our Adopted Daughter Mary with James Iver
McCallum--A Short Session of Congress Devoted Mainly to Appropriations--Conclusion.

The silver question was suddenly thrust upon the House of Representatives on the 5th of November,
1877, by a motion, submitted by Mr. Bland, of Missouri, that the rules be suspended so as to
enable him to introduce, and the House to pass, a bill to authorize the free coinage of the
standard silver dollar of 412½ grains, and to restore its legal tender character.  The motion
to suspend the rules cut off all amendments and all debate.  Several members demanded a hearing.
Efforts were made to adjourn, but this was refused.  The previous question being ordered and
the rules suspended, a single vote would introduce the bill without a reference to a committee,
and would pass it without any power of amendment, without the usual reading at three separate
times.  The motion was agreed to by a vote of yeas 163, nays 34.  So, two-thirds voting in
favor thereof, the rules were suspended and the bill was passed.

The first section of this bill provided that there shall be coined, at the several mints of
the United States, the silver dollar of the weight of 412½ grains, troy, of standard silver,
as provided in the act of January 18, 1837, on which shall be the devices and superscriptions
provided by said act; which coins, together with all silver dollars heretofore coined by the
United States, of like weight and fineness, shall be a legal tender at their nominal value
for all debts and dues, public and private, except where otherwise provided by contract; and
any owner of silver bullion may deposit the same in any United States coinage mint or assay
office, to be coined into such dollars for his benefit, upon the same terms and conditions
as gold bullion is deposited for coinage under existing law.  Section 2 provided for repealing
all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with provisions of the act.

Thus this bill, of wide-reaching importance, was introduced and passed by the House under the
previous question, and a suspension of the rules without debate on the same day of its introduction
by a vote of yeas 163, nays 34.  It was sent to the Senate and referred to the committee on
finance.

On the same day Mr. Ewing moved in the House of Representatives to suspend the rules and adopt
the following resolution:

"Resolved, That the bill to repeal the third section of the resumption law be made the special
order, not to interfere with any appropriation bills, for to-morrow at the expiration of the
morning hour, and from day to day thereafter until the following Tuesday at three o'clock,
when the previous question shall be ordered on it and on any amendments then pending, all amendments
meanwhile to be in order, provided the time shall be extended, if necessary, so as to allow
five days after the morning hour for the consideration of said bill and amendments."

This resolution passed by a vote of yeas 143, nays 47.

In consequence of this action of the House, the syndicate declined to offer the bonds, and
no further calls for six per cent. bonds were therefore made.

On the 7th of November August Belmont wrote me from New York as follows;

"I fear that the threatening position of the silver question will check completely any demand
for the four per cent. bonds here and in Europe.  The damage which the passage of this measure
will do to our public credit abroad cannot be over estimated.  To remonetize silver upon the
old standard, and make it a legal tender for all private and public debts, will be considered
by the whole civilized world as an act of repudiation on the part of the federal government,
and cast a stain upon our national credit, which has hitherto stood as high and bright as that
of any government in the world.

"It is just as much repudiation for the federal government to compel its bondholders to accept
the payment of their interest in silver, which is at a discount of ten per cent., against the
gold which the government received for the bonds, as it would be if Congress decreed that all
the bonds of the United States should not bear a higher interest than two per cent. per annum.
To do such a thing now as is contemplated by the Bland silver bill, when the federal finances
are in a flourishing condition, when the premium of gold has been reduced two and a half to
three per cent., and when our funded debt sells equal to that of any other public security
in the world, is actually as if a man of wealth and position, who had by a life-long course
of strict honesty acquired the well-earned confidence and respect of his fellow-citizens and
of the outer world, should in the midst of his affluence, and without the palliating excuse
of any temptation of want or necessity, commit open theft.

"I am sure I do not over estimate the damaging effect which the passage of the bill must have
upon American credit.  All my letters from abroad, and conversations with people familiar with
the English and continental money markets, confirm my convictions on that point. When you look
back and find in the archives of your department the proud records of a nation's faith kept
inviolate with a most punctilious and chivalrous spirit during a century, amidst all the trials
of foreign and civil war which strained the resources of our country to the very verge of ruin,
the task before you is certainly a difficult and harassing one; but while the path of duty
is often narrow and difficult, it is always straight and so well defined that it can never
be mistaken.

"Sound financial policy and love of our country's fair name alike demand from those to whom
the administration of its affairs have been intrusted the most uncompromising hostility to
the blind and dishonest frenzy which has taken hold of Congress, and I sincerely hope that
you will be seconded in the task before you by the hearty support of the President and your
colleagues."

On the 9th of November I was advised that the four per cent. bonds were selling at 99 and interest,
in a small way only.  The syndicate had bought in the market about $750,000 of these bonds
at less than par in order to prevent a further depreciation.  On the same day I was informed
by August Belmont & Co., as follows:

"After conference and careful consideration of the whole subject, it is the conclusion of all
the associates, in Europe and here, that it is injudicious to undertake further negotiations
of the fours, during the pendency of the legislation proposing to make silver a full legal
tender, as the discussion has checked dealings in the bonds by the public.  To make a call
in the face of a market quotation (to-day 98¾ and interest) below the price fixed by law would
not convince the public that new business had been undertaken at a loss, but that the call
was connected with business previously done.

* * * * *

"Further than this, we are satisfied that, holding the views expressed in your letters mentioned,
the President and all his cabinet will agree with us that it would be wrong for us to ask for
another call at this juncture, as such action would be held by those advocating the legislation
in favor of silver as proving that such legislation in our opinion was not prejudicial to the
national credit and the refunding of our national debt."

On the 10th of November Mr. Conant wrote me that our bonds had been depressed by the rumors
which had been circulated respecting probable legislation which would depreciate their value,
and that four and a half per cent. bonds had fallen off three-fourths per cent.  He said: 
"If, in any legislation which may be enacted regarding silver, provision could be made not
only exempting the debt and interest thereon from payment in silver, but declaring that payment
of the same shall be made in gold coin, it would aid us immeasurably in placing our bonds."

Two days later I received a letter from F. O. French, of New York, as follows:

"Our business people are very much alarmed at the rumored strength of the silver people, and,
as they apprehend the gravest disasters from the success of the Bland bill, a committee of
gentlemen connected with insurance and trust companies, as well as with the banks, go to Washington
to-morrow to present their views to the finance committee.

"Once dispatch this silver business--and I have faith that it cannot live in the light of full
discussion by the Senate--and we shall renew funding, and by attaining resumption put an end
to financial discussions as we did to slavery."

And on the following day I wrote to August Belmont & Co.:

"Your letter of the 9th instant was received, and also a personal letter from Mr. Belmont.

"I am watchful of the course of legislation in Congress and of the current of public sentiment,
both in our own and foreign countries, on the silver question.  I am not prepared at present
to give any assurance as to what will be done in Congress, nor of the action of the executive
department.  It is better to let the matter stand as it is, awaiting events without any committals
whatever.  I have faith to believe that all will come our right so far as the public credit
is affected, and will write you again when anything definite can be said."

On the 29th of November Belmont wrote me a long letter containing the following statements:

"I need hardly assure you, at this late day, of my earnest solicitude for the success of the
funding and resumption operations, and of my personal deep regret, apart from all pecuniary
considerations, as a member of the syndicate, to see this unfortunate situation of the silver
question put a complete stop to all further sales of the four per cent. bonds at present, here
and in England.  The capitalists and banks on both sides of the Atlantic will not buy a bond
at par in gold, when it is almost certain, from the overwhelming vote in the House, and the
known attitude of the Senate, that a silver bill, making the old silver dollar a legal tender
for all private and public obligations, will pass both Houses this winter. . . .

"The bonds are selling at ninety-nine and one-fourth in gold in open market, and it seems to
me very doubtful policy to offer bonds, by us, to the public at this moment, and thus assist
the advocates of the old silver dollar by our apparent indifference to the injustice and dishonesty
of the Bland bill."

This condition of suspense and anxiety continued during the remainder of the year.

My first annual report, as Secretary of the Treasury, was made to Congress on the 3rd of December,
1877.  The statement made of our financial condition was a very favorable one, showing a surplus
revenue of $30,340,577.69.  The receipts from different sources of revenue were largely diminished,
but the expenditures for the year were reduced by an equal amount.  The surplus revenue was
applied to the redemption of United States notes and of fractional currency, and to the payment
of six per cent. bonds for the sinking fund. The report dealt with the usual topics of such
reports, embracing a great variety of subjects.  What attracted the most attention was, naturally,
what was said about refunding the public debt and the resumption of specie payments.  The results
of refunding during the previous year have already been sufficiently stated.  The plans for
the resumption of specie payments were fully explained.  The mode and manner of bringing this
about was not specified in the law, but the time for resumption was fixed and the means provided
for accumulating coin for that purpose were ample.

In obedience to this provision I had sold at par, for coin, $15,000,000 four and a half per
cent. bonds, or $5,000,000 during each of the months of May, June and July, and $25,000,000
at par, in coin, of four per cent. bonds, or $5,000,000 for each of the months of August, September,
October, November and December.  Of the coin thus received $4,000,000 had been sold for the
redemption of United States notes, and the residue was in the treasury.  The surplus revenue
had also, under the same authority, been applied to the redemption of the residue of United
States notes, not redeemed by the sale of coin, and the balance was held in the treasury in
preparation for resumption.

These operations, aided greatly, no doubt, by the favorable condition of our foreign commerce,
had advanced the market value of United States notes to ninety-seven and three-eighths per
cent., or within nearly two and a half per cent. of coin.  They had also conclusively demonstrated
the practicability of restoring United States notes to par, in coin, by the time fixed by law,
and that without disturbing either domestic or foreign trade or commerce.  Every step had been
accompanied with growing business, with the advance of public credit, and the steady appreciation
of United States notes.  The export of bullion had been arrested, and our domestic supply had
accumulated in the treasury.  The exportation of other domestic products had been largely increased,
with great advantage to all industries.  I said the course adopted under the resumption act,
if pursued, would probably be followed with like favorable results, and a sufficient fund for
the maintenance of resumption would doubtless accumulate in the treasury at or before the date
fixed by law.

The first section of the resumption act plainly provided for the permanent substitution of
silver coin for the whole amount of fractional currency outstanding.  Section 3 directed the
permanent reduction of United States notes to an amount not exceeding $300,000,000.

I expressed in my report the opinion that, under this section, notes, when redeemed after the
1st of January, 1879, if the amount outstanding was not in excess of $300,000,000, might be
reissued as the exigencies of the public service required.  A note redeemed with coin was in
the treasury and subject to the same law as if received for taxes, or as a bank note, when
redeemed by the corporation issuing it.  The authority to reissue it did not depend upon the
mode in which it was returned to the treasury.  But this construction was controverted, and
I thought should be settled by distinct provisions of law.  It should not be open to doubt
or dispute.  The decision of this question by Congress would involve not merely the construction
of existing law, but the public policy of maintaining in circulation United States notes, either
with or without the legal tender clause.  These notes were of great public convenience--they
circulated readily; were of universal credit; were a debt of the people without interest; were
protected by every possible safeguard against counterfeiting; and, when redeemable in coin
at the demand of the holder, formed a paper currency as good as had yet been devised.

It was conceded, I said, that a certain amount could, with the aid of an ample reserve in coin,
be always maintained in circulation. Should not the benefit of this circulation inure to the
people, rather than to corporations, either state or national?  The government had ample facility
for the collection, custody, and care of the coin reserves of the country.  It was a safer
custodian of such reserves than a multitude of scattered banks would be.  The authority to
issue circulating notes by banks was not given to the banks for their benefit, but for the
public convenience, and to enable them to meet the ebb and flow of currency caused by varying
crops, productions, and seasons.  It was indispensable that a power should exist somewhere
to issue and loan credit money at certain times, and to redeem it at others.  This function
could be performed better by corporations than by the government.  The government could not
loan money, deal in bills of exchange, or make advances on property.

I expressed the opinion, that the best currency for the people of the United States would be
a carefully-limited amount of United States notes, promptly redeemable on presentation in coin,
supported by ample reserves of coin, and supplemented by a system of national banks, organized
under general laws, free and open to all, with power to issue circulating notes secured by
United States bonds, deposited with the government and redeemable on demand in United States
notes or coin.  Such a system would secure to the people a safe currency of equal value in
all parts of the country, receivable for all dues, and easily convertible into coin.  Interest
could thus be saved on so much of the public debt as could be conveniently maintained in permanent
circulation, leaving to national banks the proper business of such corporations, of providing
currency for the varying changes, the ebb and flow of trade.

I said that the legal tender quality given to United States notes was intended to maintain
them in forced circulation at a time when their depreciation was inevitable.  When they were
redeemable in coin this quality might either be withdrawn or retained, without affecting their
use as currency in ordinary times.  But all experience had shown that there were periods when,
under any system of paper money, however carefully guarded, it was impracticable to maintain
actual coin redemption.  Usually contracts would be based upon current paper money, and it
was just that, during a sudden panic, or an unreasonable demand for coin, the creditor should
not be allowed to demand payment in other than the currency upon which the debt was contracted.
To meet this contingency, it would seem to be right to maintain the legal tender quality of
the United States notes.  If they were not at par with coin it was the fault of the government
and not of the debtor, or, rather, it was the result of unforseen stringency not contemplated
by the contracting parties.

In establishing a system of paper money, designed to be permanent, I said it should be remembered
that theretofore no expedient had been devised, either in this or other countries, that in
times of panic or adverse trade had prevented the drain and exhaustion of coin reserves, however
large or carefully guarded.  Every such system must provide for a suspension of specie payment.
Laws might forbid or ignore such a contingency, but it would come; and when it came it could
not be resisted, but had to be acknowledged and declared, to prevent unnecessary sacrifice
and ruin.  In our free government the power to make this declaration would not be willingly
intrusted to individuals, but should be determined by events and conditions known to all. 
It would be far better to fix the maximum of legal tender notes at $300,000,000, supported
by a minimum reserve of $100,000,000, of coin, only to be used for the redemption of notes,
not to be reissued until the reserve was restored.  A demand of coin to exhaust such a reserve
might not occur, but, if events should force it, the fact would be known and could be declared,
and would justify a temporary suspension of specie payments.  Some such expedient could, no
doubt, be provided by Congress for an exceptional emergency.  In other times the general confidence
in these notes would maintain them at par in coin, and justify their use as reserves of banks
and for the redemption of bank notes.

As to the fractional currency I said the resumption act provided for the exchange and substitution
of silver coins for such currency. To facilitate this exchange, the joint resolution, approved
July 22, 1876, provided that such coin should be issued to an amount not exceeding $10,000,000,
for an equal amount of legal tender notes.  It also provided that the aggregate amount of such
coin and fractional currency outstanding should not exceed, at any time, $50,000,000.  That
limit would have been reached if the whole amount of fractional currency issued and not redeemed,
had been held to be "outstanding."  It was well known, however, that a very large amount of
fractional currency issued had been destroyed, and could not be presented for redemption, and
could hardly be held to be "outstanding."  The Treasurer of the United States, the Comptroller
of the Currency, and the Director of the Mint concurred in estimating the amount, so lost and
destroyed, to be not less than $8,083,513.

As it was evident that Congress intended to provide an aggregate issue of $50,000,000 of such
coin and currency in circulation, I directed the further issue of silver coin, equal in amount
to the currency estimated to have been lost and destroyed.

I recommended that the limitation upon the amount of such fractional coin, to be issued in
exchange for United States notes, be repealed. The coin was readily taken, was in great favor
with the people, its issue was profitable to the government, and experience had shown that
there was no difficulty in maintaining it at par with United States notes.  The estimated amount
of such coin in circulation in the United States in 1860, at par with gold, was $43,000,000.
Great Britain, with a population of 32,000,000, maintained an inferior fractional coin to the
amount of $92,463,500, at par with gold, and other nations maintained a much larger per capita
amount.  The true limit of such coin was the demand that might be made for its issue, and if
only issued in exchange for United States notes there was no danger of an excess being issued.

By the coinage act of 1873, any person might deposit silver bullion at the mint to be coined
into trade dollars of the weight of 420 grains, troy, upon the payment of the cost of coinage.
This provision had been made at a time when such a dollar, worth in the market $1.02-13/100
in gold, was designed for the use of trade in China, where silver was the only standard.  Under
these laws the amount of trade dollars issued, mainly for exportation, was $30,710,400.

In October, 1877, it became apparent that there was no further export demand for trade dollars,
but deposits of silver bullion were made, and such dollars were demanded of the mint for circulation
in the United States, that the owner might secure the difference between the value of such
bullion in the market and United States notes.  At the time the mints were fully occupied by
the issue of fractional, and other coins, on account of the government.  Therefore, under the
authority of the law of 1876 referred to, I directed that no further issues of trade dollars
be made until necessary again to meet an export demand.  In case another silver dollar was
authorized, I recommended that the trade dollar be discontinued.

The question of the issue of a silver dollar for circulation as money had, previous to my report,
been discussed and carefully examined by a commission organized by Congress, which had recommended
the coinage of the old silver dollar.  With such legislative provisions as would maintain its
current value at par with gold, its issue was recommended by me.  I thought a gold coin of
the denomination of one dollar was too small for convenient circulation, while such a coin
in silver would be convenient for a multitude of daily transactions, and in a form to satisfy
the natural instinct of hoarding.

I discussed the silver question to some length and said that of the metals, silver was of the
most general use for coinage.  It was a part of every system of coinage, even in countries
where gold was the sole legal standard.  It best measured the common wants of life, but, from
its weight and bulk, was not a convenient medium in the larger exchanges of commerce.  Its
production was reasonably steady in amount.  The relative market value of silver and gold was
far more stable than that of any other two commodities--still, it did vary.  It was not in
the power of human law to prevent the variation.  This inherent difficulty had compelled all
nations to adopt one or the other as the sole standard of value, or to authorize an alternative
standard of the cheaper coin, or to coin both metals at an arbitrary standard, and to maintain
one a par with the other by limiting the amount and legal tender quality of the cheaper coin,
and receiving or redeeming it at par with the other.

It had been the careful study of statesmen for many years to secure a bimetallic currency not
subject to the changes of market value, and so adjusted that both kinds could be kept in circulation
together, not alternating with each other.  The growing tendency had been to adopt, for coins,
the principle of "redeemability" applied to different forms of paper money.  By limiting tokens,
silver, and paper money, to the amount needed for business, and promptly receiving or redeeming
all that might at any time be in excess, all these forms of money could be kept in circulation,
in large amounts, at par with gold.  In this way, tokens of inferior intrinsic value were readily
circulated, and did not depreciate below the paper money into which they were convertible.
The fractional coin then in circulation, though the silver of which it was composed was of
less market value than the paper money, passed readily among all classes of people and answered
all the purposes for which it was designed.  And so the silver dollar, if restored to our coinage,
would greatly add to the convenience of the people. But this coin should be subject to the
same rule, as to issue and convertibility, as other forms of money.  If the market value of
the silver in it was less than that of gold coin of the same denomination, and it was issued
in unlimited qualities, and made a legal tender for all debts, it would demonetize gold and
depreciate our paper money.

The importance of gold as the standard of value was conceded by all.  Since 1834, it had been
practically the sole coin standard of the United States, and, since 1815, been the sole standard
of Great Britain.  Germany had recently adopted the same standard. France, and other Latin
nations, had suspended the coinage of silver, and, it was supposed, would gradually either
adopt the sole standard of gold, or provide for the convertibility of silver coin, on the demand
of the holder, into gold coin.

In the United States, several experiments had been made with the view of retaining both gold
and silver in circulation.  The 2nd Congress undertook to establish the ratio of fifteen of
silver to one of gold, with free coinage of both metals.  By this ratio gold was under-valued,
as one ounce of gold was worth more in the markets of the world than fifteen ounces of silver,
and gold, therefore, was exported.  To correct this, in 1837, the ratio was fixed at sixteen
to one, but sixteen ounces of silver were worth, in the market, more than one ounce of gold,
so that silver was demonetized.

These difficulties in the adjustment of gold and silver coinage had been fully considered by
Congress, prior to the passage of the act approved February 21, 1853.  By that act a new, and
it was believed a permanent, policy was adopted to secure the simultaneous circulation of both
silver and gold coins in the United States. Silver fractional coins were provided for at a
ratio of 14.88 in silver to one in gold, and were only issued in exchange for gold coin.  The
right of private parties to deposit silver bullion for such coinage was repealed, and these
coins were issued from bullion purchased by the Treasurer of the Mint, and only upon the account,
and for the profit, of the United States.  If the slight error in the ratio of 1792 prevented
gold from entering into circulation for forty-five years, and the slight error in 1837 brought
gold into circulation and banished silver until 1853, how much more certainly would an error
then of nine per cent. cause gold to be exported and silver to become the sole standard of
value? Was it worth while to travel again the round of errors, when experience had demonstrated
that both metals could only be maintained in circulation together by adhering to the policy
of 1853?

The silver dollar was not mentioned in the act of 1853, but from 1792 until 1874 it was worth
more in the market than the gold dollar provided for in the act of 1837.  It was not a current
coin contemplated as being in circulation at the passage of the act of February 12, 1873. 
The whole amount of such dollars, issued prior to 1853, was $2,553,000.  Subsequent to 1853,
and until it was dropped from our coinage in 1873, the total amount issued was $5,492,838,
and this was almost exclusively for exportation.

By the coinage act approved February 12, 1873, fractional silver coins were authorized, similar
in general character to the coins of 1853, but with a slight increase in silver in them, to
make them conform exactly to the French coinage, and the old dollar was replaced by the trade
dollar of 420 grains of standard silver.

Much complaint had been made that this was done with the design of depriving the people of
the privilege of paying their debts in a cheaper money than gold, but it was manifest that
this was an error. No one then did or could foresee the subsequent fall in the market value
of silver.  The silver dollar was an unknown coin to the people, and was not in circulation
even on the Pacific slope, where coin was in common use.  The trade dollar of 420 grains was
substituted for the silver dollar of 412½ grains because it was believed that it was better
adapted to supersede the Mexican dollar in the Chinese trade, and experiment proved this to
be true.  Since the trade dollar was authorized $30,710,400 had been issued, or nearly four
times the entire issue of old silver dollars since the foundation of the government.  Had not
the coinage act of 1873 passed, the United States would have been compelled to suspend the
free coinage of silver dollars, as the Latin nations were, or to accept silver as the sole
coin standard of value.

Since February, 1873, great changes had occurred in the market value of silver.  Prior to that
time the silver in the old dollar was worth more than a gold dollar, while it was worth then,
in 1877, about 92 cents.  If by law any holder of silver bullion might deposit in the mint
and demand a full legal tender dollar for every 412½ grains of standard silver deposited, the
result would be inevitable that as soon as the mints could supply the demand the silver dollar
would, by a financial law as fixed and invariable as the law of gravitation, become the only
standard of value.  All forms of paper money would fall to that standard or below it, and gold
would be demonetized and quoted at a premium equal to its value in the markets of the world.
For a time the run to deposit bullion at the mint would give to silver an artificial value,
of which the holders and producers of silver bullion would have the sole benefit.  The utmost
capacity of the mints would be employed for years to supply this demand at the cost of, and
without profit to, the people.  The silver dollar would take the place of gold as rapidly as
coined, and be used in the payment of customs duties, causing an accumulation of such coins
in the treasury.  If used in paying the interest on the public debt, the grave questions then
presented would arise with public creditors, seriously affecting the public credit.

It had been urged that the free coinage of silver in the United States would restore its market
value to that of gold.  Market value was fixed by the world, and not by the United States alone,
and was affected by the whole mass of silver in the world.  As the enormous and continuous
demand for silver in Asia had not prevented the fall of silver, it was not likely that the
limited demand for silver coin in this country, where paper money then was, and would be, the
chief medium of exchange, would cause any considerable advance in its value.  This advance,
if any, would be secured by the demand for silver bullion for coin, to be issued by and for
the United States, as well as if it were issued for the benefit of the holder of the bullion.
If the financial condition of our country was so grievous that we must at every hazard have
a cheaper dollar, in order to lessen the burden of debts already contracted, it would be far
better, rather than to adopt the single standard of silver, to boldly reduce the number of
grains in the gold dollar, or to abandon and retrace all efforts to make United States notes
equal to coin.  Either expedient would do greater harm to the public at large than any possible
benefit to debtors.

The free coinage of silver would also impair the pledge made of the customs duties, by the
act of February, 1862, for payment of the interest of the public debt.  The policy adhered
to of collecting these duties in gold coin, had been the chief cause of upholding and advancing
the public credit, and making it possible to lessen the burden of interest by the process of
refunding.

In view of these considerations, I felt it to be my duty to earnestly urge upon Congress the
serious objections to the free coinage of silver on such conditions as would demonetize gold,
greatly disturb all the financial operations of the government, suddenly revolutionize the
basis of our currency, throw upon the government the increased cost of coinage, arrest the
refunding of the public debt, and impair the public credit, with no apparent advantage to the
people at large.

I believed that all the beneficial results hoped for from a liberal issue of silver coin could
be secured by issuing this coin, in pursuance of the general policy of the act of 1853, in
exchange for United States notes, coined from bullion purchased in the open market, by the
United States, and by maintaining it by redemption, or otherwise, at par with gold coin.  It
could be made a legal tender for such sums and on such contracts as would secure to it the
most general circulation.  It could be easily redeemed in United States notes and gold coin,
and only reissued when demanded for public convenience.  If the essential quality of redeemability
given to the United States notes, bank bills, tokens, fractional coins and currency, maintained
them at par, how much easier it would be to maintain the silver dollar, of intrinsic market
value nearly equal to gold, at par with gold coin, by giving to it the like quality of redeemability.
To still further secure a fixed relative value of silver and gold, the United States might
invite an international convention of commercial nations.  Even such a convention, while it
might check the fall of silver, could not prevent the operation of that higher law which places
the market value of silver above human control.  Issued upon the conditions stated, I was of
opinion that the silver dollar would be a great public advantage, but that if issued without
limit, upon the demand of the owners of silver bullion, it would be a great public injury.

The President's message supported and strengthened the position taken by me both in favor of
the policy of resumption and against the free coinage of silver provided for in the Bland bill.
The comments in the public press, both in the United States and in Europe, generally sustained
the position taken by the President and myself.  I soon had assurances that the Bland bill
would not pass the Senate without radical changes.  Even the House of Representatives, so recently
eager to repeal the resumption act, and so hasty and united for the free coinage of silver,
had become more conservative and would not have favored either measure without material changes.
I conversed with Mr. Allison and wrote him the following letter:

  "Washington, D. C., December 10, 1877.
"Hon. W. B. Allison, U. S. Senate.

"Dear Sir:--Permit me to make an earnest appeal to you to so amend the silver bill that it
will not arrest the refunding of our debt or prevent the sale of our four per cent. bonds.
I know that upon you must mainly rest the responsibility of this measure, and I believe that
you would not do anything that you did not think would advance the public service, whatever
pressure might be brought to bear upon you.

"It is now perfectly certain that unless the customs duties and the public debt--as least so
much of it as was issued since February, 1873--are excepted, we cannot sell the bonds.  The
shock to our credit will bring back from abroad United States bonds, and our people will then
have a chance to buy the existing bonds and we cannot sell the four per cent. bonds.  This
will be a grievous loss and damage to the administration and to our party, for which we must
be held responsible.  You know I have been as much in favor of the silver dollar as anyone,
but if it is to be used to raise these difficult questions with public creditors, it will be
an unmixed evil.

"I wish I could impress you as I feel about this matter, and I know you would then share in
the responsibility, if there is any, in so amending this bill that we can have all that is
good out of it without the sure evil that may come from it if it arrests our funding and resumption
operations.

  "With much respect, yours, etc.
  "John Sherman.

The amendments to the Bland bill proposed by Mr. Allison from the committee on finance, completely
revolutionized the measure.

And to insert the following:

"And the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed, out of any money in the treasury
not otherwise appropriated, to purchase, from time to time, at the market price thereof, not
less than $2,000,000 per month, nor more than $4,000,000 per month, and cause the same to be
coined into such dollars.  And any gain or seigniorage arising from this coinage shall be accounted
for and paid into the treasury, as provided under existing laws relative to the subsidiary
coinage:  Provided, that the amount of money at any one time invested in such silver bullion,
exclusive of such resulting coin, shall not exceed $5,000,000."

These amendments were agreed to.

Sections two and three of the bill were added by the Senate.  The bill, as amended, was sent
to the House of Representatives, and the Senate amendments were agreed to.  And the Secretary
of the Treasury is authorized and directed to purchase, from time to time, silver bullion,
at the market price thereof, not less than two million dollars worth per month, nor more than
four million dollars worth per month, and cause the same to be coined monthly, as fast as so
purchased, into such dollars; and a sum sufficient to carry out the foregoing provision of
this act is hereby appropriated out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.

"Sec. 2.

"The President shall, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, appoint three commissioners,
who shall attend such conference on behalf of the United States, and shall report the doings
thereof to the President, who shall transmit the same to Congress.

"Said commissioners shall each receive the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars and their
reasonable expenses, to be approved by the Secretary of State; and the amount necessary to
pay such compensation and expenses is hereby appropriated out of any money in the treasury
not otherwise appropriated.

"Sec. 3.  That any holder of the coin authorized by this act may deposit the same with the
treasurer or any assistant treasurer of the United States in sums not less than ten dollars,
and receive therefor certificates of not less than ten dollars each, corresponding with the
denominations of the United States notes.  The coin deposited for or representing the certificates
shall be retained in the treasury for the payment of same upon demand.  Said certificates shall
be receivable for customs, taxes, and all public dues, and, when so received, may be reissued.

"Sec. 4.  All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act are hereby
repealed."

It was sent to the President, and was disapproved by him.  His veto message was read in the
House on the 28th of February, and upon the question whether the bill should pass, the objections
of the President notwithstanding, it was adopted by a vote of yeas 196, nays 73.  It passed
the Senate on the same day, by a vote of yeas 46, nays 19, and thus became a law.

I did not agree with the President in his veto of the bill, for the radical changes made in
its terms in the Senate had greatly changed its effect and tenor.  The provisions authorizing
the Secretary of the Treasury to purchase not less than $2,000,000 worth of silver bullion
per month, at market price, and to coin it into dollars, placed the silver dollars upon the
same basis as the subsidiary coins, except that the dollar contained a greater number of grains
of silver than a dollar of subsidiary coins, and was a legal tender for all debts without limit
as to amount.  The provision that the gain or seigniorage arising from the coinage should be
accounted for and paid into the treasury, as under the existing laws relative to subsidiary
coinage, seemed to remove all serious objections to the measure.  In view of the strong public
sentiment in favor of the free coinage of the silver dollar, I thought it better to make no
objections to the passage of the bill, but I did not care to antagonize the wishes of the President.
He honestly believed that it would greatly disturb the public credit to make a legal tender
for all amounts, of a dollar, the bullion of which was not of equal commercial value to the
gold dollar.

The provision made directing the President to invite the governments of the countries composing
the Latin Union, and of such other European countries as he deemed advisable, to unite with
the United States in adopting a common ratio between gold and silver, has been made the basis
of several conferences which have ended without any practical result, and the question of a
single or double standard still stands open as the great disturbing question of public policy,
affecting alike all commercial countries.

While this measure was pending in the Senate, a casual letter written by me ten years previously
was frequently quoted, as evidence that I was then in favor of paying the bonds of the United
States with United States notes, at that date at a large discount in coin. The letter is as
follows:

  "United States Senate Chamber,}
  "Washington, March 20, 1868.  }
"Dear Sir:--I was pleased to receive your letter.  My personal
interests are the same as yours, but, like you, I do not intend to
be influenced by them.  My construction of the law is the result
of a careful examination, and I feel quite sure an impartial court
would confirm it, if the case could be tried before a court.  I
send you my views, as fully stated in a speech.  Your idea is that
we propose to repudiate or violate a promise when we offer to redeem
the 'principal' in 'legal tender.'  I think the bondholder violates
his promise when he refuses to take the same kind of money he paid
for the bonds.  If the coin is to be tested by the law, I am right;
if it is to be tested by Jay Cooke's advertisements, I am wrong.
I hate repudiation, or anything like it, but we ought not to be
deterred from doing what is right by fear of undeserved epithets.
If, under the law as it now stands, the holder of the 5-20's can
only be paid in gold, then we are repudiators if we propose to pay
otherwise.  If, on the other hand, the bondholder can legally demand
only the kind of money he paid, he is a repudiator and an extortioner
to demand money more valuable than he gave.

  "Your truly,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. A. Mann, Jr., Brooklyn Heights."

On the 26th of March, 1878, I wrote the following letter to Senator Justin S. Morrill, which
was read by him in the debate, and, I think, was a conclusive answer to the erroneous construction
put upon my letter to Mann:

"My Dear Sir:--Your letter of the 24th inst. is received.  I have noticed that my casual letter
to Dr. Mann, of the date of March 20, 1868, inclosing a speech made by me, has been frequently
used to prove that I have changed my opinion since that time as to the right of the United
States to pay the principal of the 5-20 bonds in legal tenders.  This would not be very important,
if true, but it is not true, as I never have changed my opinion as to the technical legal right
to redeem the principal of the 5-20 bonds in legal tenders, but, as you know and correctly
state, have always insisted that we could not avail ourselves of this legal right until we
complied, in all respects, with the legal and moral obligations imposed by the legal tender
note, to redeem it in coin on demand or to restore the right to convert it into an interest-
bearing government bond.  The grounds of this opinion are very fully stated in the speech made
February 27, 1868, referred to in the letter to Dr. Mann, and in a report on the funding bill
made by me from the committee on finance, December 7, 1867.

"If my letter is taken in connection with the speech which it inclosed and to which it expressly
referred, it will be perceived that my position there is entirely consistent with what it is
now, and time has proven that, if the report of the committee on finance had been adopted,
we would long since have reached the coin standard, with an enormous saving of interest, and
without impairing the public credit.  My position was, that while the legal tender act made
United States notes a legal tender for all debts, private and public, except for customs duties
and interest of the public debt, yet we could not honestly compel the public creditors to receive
United States notes in the payment of bonds until we made good the pledge of the public faith
to pay the notes in coin.  That promise was printed on the face of the notes when issued, was
repeated in several acts of Congress, and was declared valid and obligatory by the Supreme Court.

"From the first issue of the legal tender note, which I heartily supported and voted for, I
have sought to make it good, to support, maintain and advance its value.  It was in the earnest
effort to restore to the greenback the right to be converted, on the demand of the holder,
into a five per cent. bond and, as soon as practicable, into coin, that I made the speech referred
to, resisting alike the demand of those who wished to exclude United States notes from the
operation of funding and the large class of persons who wished to cheapen, degrade and ultimately
repudiate them.  In all my official connection with legislation as to legal tender notes, I
have but one act to regret and to apologize for, and that is my acquiescence in the act of
March 3, 1863, which, under the pressure of war and to promote the sale of bonds, took away
from the holders of these notes the right to convert them into interest-bearing securities.
This right might properly have been suspended during the war, but its repeal was a fatal act,
the source and cause of all the financial evils we have suffered and from which we cannot recover
until we restore that right or redeem on demand our notes in coin.

"The speech referred to, and which I have recently read by reasons of the reference to it in
the letter to Dr. Mann, will clearly show that I have not been guilty of inconsistency or a
change of opinion --the most pardonable of all offenses--but then insisted, as I now insist,
that no discrimination should be made against the note holder, but that until we are ready
to pay him in coin he should be allowed, at his option, to convert his money into a bond at
par. Until then our notes are depreciated by our wrongful act, and we have no right to take
advantage of our own wrong by forcing upon the bondholders the notes we refuse to receive.
This act is the settled law, and whatever any man's opinions were before it passed, he would
assume a grave responsibility who would seek to evade its terms, weaken its authority or change
its provisions.  It has entered into every contract made since that time.  It has passed the
ordeal of four Congresses and two elections for Presidents.  It cannot be revoked without public
dishonor.  So far as the bondholder is concerned, it is an executed law.  Over $700,000,000
of bonds have been redeemed in coin under it, and the civilized world regards all the remainder
as covered by its sanction, and in their faith in it our securities have become the second
only in the markets of the world.  This law is not yet quite executed so far as the note holder
is concerned. His note is not yet quite as good as coin.  Congress has debated ever since its
passage the best mode to make it good.  The Senate in 1870 provided, in the third section of
the refunding act, as it passed that body, that these notes might be converted into four per
cent. bonds, but the House would not concur.  Everybody can now see that if this had been done
these notes would now be at par in coin.  Other expedients were proposed, and finally the resumption
act was passed, and, if undisturbed, is now on the eve of execution.

"The promise made in 1862, and so often repeated, is about to be fulfilled.  Agitation on collateral
questions may delay it, but the obligation of public faith, written on the face of every United
States note and sacredly pledged by the act to strengthen the public credit, will give us neither
peace nor assured prosperity until it is fulfilled.  Public opinion may vibrate, and men and
parties may array themselves against the fulfillment of these public promises, but in time
they will be fulfilled, and I think the sooner the better.  Pardon me for this long answer
to your note, but I have no time to condense it.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman."

Relief from the fear of the enactment of the Bland bill, and the limitation of the amount of
silver dollars to be coined, removed the great impediment to the sale of four per cent. bonds,
for refunding purposes, and the progress toward specie payments.

As already indicated, I had concluded to terminate the existing contract with the syndicate,
and to make the sales directly through national bank depositaries, and the treasury and sub-treasuries
of the United States.  I therefore gave August Belmont & Co. the following notice:

  "Treasury Department, January 14, 1878.
"Messrs. August Belmont & Co., New York.

"Gentlemen:--In compliance with the second clause of the contract between the Secretary of
the Treasury and yourselves and associates, of the date of June 9, 1877, for the sale of four
per cent. bonds, I give you notice that from and after the 26th day of January instant that
contract is terminated.  It is the desire of the President, in which I concur, to open subscriptions
in the United States to the four per cent. bonds in a different way from that provided in our
contract, and therefore this notice is given.  I sincerely hope to have your active co-operation
in the new plan, and am disposed, if you are willing, to continue in substance, by a new contract
with you, the sale of these bonds in European markets, and invite your suggestions to that end.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

I received from them the following answer:

  "New York, January 15, 1878.

"We have also communicated to our friends in London your willingness to continue the contract
for the sale of the four per cent. bonds in Europe, with such modifications as may become necessary,
and as soon as we have received their views we shall take pleasure in writing to you again
for the purpose of appointing a conference on the subject.

"In the meantime, we remain, very respectfully,

  "Aug. Belmont & Co."

Notice was given to Mr. Conant of the termination of the contract, but he was advised by me
that we would probably agree to the continuance of the syndicate in the European markets. 
He had expressed to me a fear that a panic would occur about our bonds in Europe, on account
of the anticipated passage of the Bland bill, but I was able to assure him that it would not
become a law in the form originally proposed.

"The subscriptions may be made for coupon bonds of $50, $100, $500, and $1,000, and for registered
bonds of $50, $100, $500, $1,000, $5,000, and $10,000.

"Upon the receipt of full payment, the bonds will be transmitted, free of charge, to the subscribers,
and a commission of one-fourth of one per cent. will be allowed upon the amount of subscriptions,
but no commission will be paid upon any single subscription less than $1,000.

"To promote the convenience of subscribers, the department will also receive, in lieu of coin,
called bonds of the United States, coupons past due or maturing within thirty days, or gold
certificates issued under the act of March 3, 1863, and national banks will be designated as
depositaries under the provisions of section 5153, Revised Statutes of the United States, to
receive deposits on account of this loan, under regulations to be hereafter prescribed.

  "John Sherman, Secretary of the Treasury."

After the publication of this notice inviting subscriptions to the four per cent. bonds, I
found that the chief impediment in my way was the apparent disposition of both Houses of Congress
to require the called bonds to be paid in United States notes.  This was not confined to any
party, for, while the majority of the Democrats of each House were in favor of such payment,
many of the prominent Republicans were fully committed to the same policy.  I was requested
by committees of the two Houses, from time to time, to appear before them, which, in compliance
with the law, I cheerfully did, and found that a free and unrestricted statement of what I
proposed to do was not only beneficial to the public service, but soon induced Congress not
to interfere with my plans for resumption.  My first interview was on the 11th of March, 1878,
with the committee on coinage of the House, of which Alexander H. Stephens, of Georgia, was
chairman.  I was accompanied by H. R. Linderman, Director of the Mint.  The notes of the conference
were ordered by the House of Representatives to be printed, and the committee was convinced
of the correctness of the statements in regard to the amount of actual coin and bullion on
hand, and where it was situated, which had been previously doubted.

On the 19th of March, I had an interview with the Senate committee on finance, of which Mr.
Morrill, of Vermont, was chairman.  I was examined at great length and detail as to the preparations
for resumption, and the actual state of the treasury at that time. The principal topic discussed
was whether the four per cent. bonds could be sold, Mr. Bayard being evidently in favor of
the substitution of the four and a half per cents. for the four per cent. bonds I had placed
on the market.  The question of how to obtain gold coin and bullion was fully considered in
this interview, and here I was able to convince the committee that a purchase of domestic gold
coin and bullion would meet all the requirements of the treasury, and that no necessity existed
for the purchase of gold abroad. This interview, which covers over twenty printed pages, I
believe entirely satisfied the committee of the expediency of the steps taken by me and their
probable success.  After this interview I had the assistance of the committee of finance, without
regard to party, in the measures adopted by me.  Mr. Bayard and Mr. Kernan gave me their hearty
support, and Mr. Voorhees made no unfriendly opposition.  The report of this interview was
subsequently published, and had a good effect upon the popular mind.

By far the most important interview was one with the committee on banking and currency, of
the House of Representatives, of which A. H. Buckner, of Missouri, was chairman.  A large majority
of this committee had reported a bill to repeal the resumption act, and the members of the
committee of each party were among the most pronounced greenbackers in the House of Representatives.
Perhaps the most aggressive was Thomas Ewing, a friend, and by marriage a relative of mine,
a Member of ability and influence, and thoroughly sincere in his convictions against the policy
of resumption.  I was summoned before this committee to answer a series of interrogatories
furnished me a few days previously, calling for statements as to the actual amount of gold
and silver belonging to, and in the custody of, the treasury department on the 28th of March,
where located and what deductions were to be made from it, on account of actual existing demands
against it.  This interview, extending through several days, and covering seventy-three printed
pages, embraced every phase of the financial condition of the United States, and the policy
of the treasury department in the past and in the future.  At the end of the first day the
principal question seemed to be whether it was possible that the United States could resume
specie payments and maintain them.  This led to a careful scrutiny of the amount of gold in
the treasury, Mr. Ewing assuming that a portion of the amount stated was "phantom" gold, and
was really not available for the purposes of resumption.  I said that the United States would
be, on the 1st of January, in a better condition to resume specie payments than the Bank of
England was to maintain them, and gave my reasons for that opinion.  I saw that Mr. Ewing regarded
this statement as an exaggeration.

After the adjournment I understood that Mr. Ewing said that I was grossly in error, and that
he would be able to show it by authentic documents as to the condition of the Bank of England.
He said that I was laboring under delusions, which he would be able to expose at the next meeting.
When we again met with the full committee present, Mr. Ewing said:

"I ask your attention to a comparison of the condition of the treasury for resumption with
the condition of the Bank of England in 1819 and now, with the Bank of France this year, and
with the banks of the United States in 1857 and 1861."

To this I replied:

"When I said the other day that I thought the condition of the treasury, on the 1st of January
next, would be as good as the Bank of England, I had not then before the actual figures or
tables, but only spoke from a general knowledge of the facts.  Since then I have given the
matter a good deal of attention, and now have some carefully prepared tables, founded upon
late information, giving the exact comparison of the condition of the Bank of England, the
Bank of France, the Bank of Germany, the Bank of Belgium, the national banks, and the treasury.
These tables will show that pretty accurately."

I handed the tables to the committee, and they are printed with the report.  I then proceeded
to show in detail that while the Bank of England had notes outstanding to the amount of £38,698,020,
it had on hand as assets:  Government debt, £11,015,100; other securities, £3,984,900; gold
coin and bullion, £23,698,020; that upon this it was apparent that in the issue department
the Bank of England was stronger than the United States; but in the banking department, the
bank was liable for deposits, the most dangerous form of liability, and various other forms
of liability, to the amount of £46,277,277.  To pay these it had government securities, notes
and other securities and £1,032,773 gold and silver coin, in all amounting to £46,277,277.
Combining these accounts it was shown that the demand liabilities on the bank were £54,639,171,
while the gold and bullion on hand was only £24,730,793.  Then I said:

"Now, in regard to the United States, I have a statement here showing the apparent and probable
condition of the United States treasury on April 1, 1878, and on the 1st of January next. 
The only difference in these statements is that I add to the present condition of the treasury
the proposed accumulation of fifty millions of coin and a substantial payment before that of
the fractional currency.  I think it will be practically redeemed before that time.  The actual
results show the amount of demand liabilities on April 1, 1878, against the United States,
as $460,527,374, and they show the demand resources, including coin and currency, at $174,324,459,
making the percentage of resources to liabilities thirty-seven.  To show the probable condition
of the treasury on the 1st of January, 1879, I add the fifty millions of coin and I take off
the fractional currency, and deducted estimated United States notes lost and destroyed, leaving
the other items about the same.  That would show an aggregate of probable liabilities of $35,098,400
and probable cash resources of $224,324,459, making fifty-one per cent. of the demand liabilities.
The ratio of the Bank of England, at this time, is forty-five per cent.; the ratio of the Bank
of France, is sixty-five per cent.; the ratio of the Bank of Germany, is fifty-eight per cent.;
and the ratio of the Bank of Belgium, is twenty-five per cent., all based upon the same figures."

I gave the statistics as to the condition of the national banks, showing their assets and liabilities,
that they were not bound to redeem their notes in gold or silver, but could redeem them in
United States notes, of which they had on hand $97,083,248, and besides they had deposited
in the treasury, as security for their notes, an amount of United States bonds ten per cent.
greater than the entire amount of their circulating notes, and that these bonds were worth
in the market a large premium in currency.  In addition to the legal tenders on hand, they
had five per cent. of their circulation in legal tender notes deposited in the treasury as
a redemption fund, amounting to $15,028,340.  They had also on hand gold and silver coin and
gold certificates amounting to $32,907,750, making a total cash reserve of $145,019,338.  The
ratio of their legal tender funds to circulation was 48.4; ratio of legal tenders to circulation
and deposits, 15.1.

In this interview I explicitly stated to the committee my purpose to sell bonds, under the
resumption act, at the rate of $5,000,000 a month, to the aggregate amount of $50,000,000;
that I was satisfied I could make this sale upon favorable terms, and could add to the coin
then in the treasury the sum of $50,000,000 gold coin, which I thought sufficient to secure
and maintain the parity of our notes with coin.  Mr. Ewing inquired:

"Where do you expect to get the additional fifty millions of gold by January 1, 1879?"

My answer was as follows:

"You must see that for me to state too closely what I propose to do might prevent me from doing
what I expect to do, and therefore I will answer your question just as far as I think you will
say I ought to go.  I answer, mainly from the sale of bonds.  Indeed, in the present condition
of the revenue, we cannot expect much help from surplus revenue, except so far as that surplus
revenue may be applied to the payment of greenbacks and to the redemption of fractional currency
in aid of the sinking fund.  To that extent I think we can rely upon revenue enough to retire
the United States notes redeemed under the resumption act; so that I would say that we can
get the $50,000,000 of gold additional by the sale of bonds. As to the kind of bonds that I
would sell, and as to how I would sell them, etc., I ought not to say anything on that subject
at present, because you ought to allow me, as an executive officer, in the exercise of a very
delicate discretion, free power to act as I think right at the moment, holding me responsible
for my action afterward.  As to what bonds I will sell, or where I will sell them, or how I
will sell them, as that is a discretionary power left with the secretary, I ought not to decide
that now, but to decide it as the case arises."

Some question was made by Mr. Ewing as to the ability to sell bonds, and he asked:

"I understood you to say in your interview with the Senate committee that you would have to
rely upon the natural currents of trade to bring gold from aborad; that is, that there cannot
be a large sale of bonds for coin abroad.  Is it on a foreign sale that you are relying?"

I replied:

"Not at all, but on a sale at home.  Perhaps I might as well say that if I can get two-thirds
of this year's supply of gold and silver from our own mines, it will amount to a good deal
more that $50,000,000, so that I do not have to go abroad for gold.  If we can keep our own
gold and silver from going abroad, it is more than I want."

Mr. Buckner inquired:

"For this $50,000,000 additional I suppose you rely, to some extent, on the coinage of silver?"

I said:

"To some extent; silver and gold we consider the same under the law."

Mr. Ewing asked:

"Do you expect to pay out the silver dollar coined by you for current expenses, or only for
coin liabilities, or to hoard it for resumption?"

I said:

"I expect to pay it out now only in exchange for gold coin or for silver bullion.  I am perfectly
free and answer the question fully, because on that point, after consulting with many Members
of both Houses, I have made up my mind what the law requires me to do.  I propose to issue
all the silver dollars that are demanded in exchange for gold coin.  That has been going on
to some extent; how far I cannot tell.  Then I propose to use the silver in payment for silver
bullion, which I can do at par in gold.  I then propose to buy all the rest of the silver bullion
which I need, under the law, with silver coin.  As a matter of course, in the current course
of business, some of that silver coin will go into circulation; how much, I do not know.  The
more, the better for us.  But most of it, I take it, will be transferred to the treasury for
silver certificates (that seems to be the idea of the bill), and those silver certificates
will come into the treasury in payment of duties, and in that way, practically, the silver
will belong to the government again."

Some question arose as to the reissue of treasury notes under the resumption act.  I expressed
my opinion that all notes not in excess of $300,000,000 could be reissued under existing laws,
but as to whether notes in excess of $300,000,000 could be reissued was a question which I
hoped Congress would settle, that I considered the law as doubtful.  Congress did subsequently
suspend the retirement of United States notes at $346,000,000.

The sinking fund and many other subjects were embraced in this interview, the importance of
which would justify a fuller statement than I have given, but, as the interview has been published
as a public document, I do not give further details.  I stated frankly and explicitly what
I intended to do if not interrupted by Congress. I felt assured, not only from the Senate,
but from what I could learn from Members of the House, that no material change of existing
law would be made to prevent the proposed operations of the treasury department.  From that
time forward I had not the least doubt of success in preparing for and maintaining resumption,
and refunding, at a lower rate of interest, all the public debt then subject to redemption.

I think I entirely satisfied the committee that the government was not dealing with shadows,
but had undertaken a task which it could easily accomplish, if not prevented by our common
masters, the Congress of the United States.  It was said of Mr. Buckner that before I appeared
before the committee, he regarded me as a visionary enthusiast, who had undertaken to do what
was impossible to be done, that after the first day of the examination he came to the conclusion
that I was honest in my belief that resumption was possible, but he did not believe in my ability
to do what was proposed; at the end of the second day he expressed some doubts of the ability
to resume, but said that the object aimed at was a good one, and he was not disposed to interfere
with the experiment; and on the third day he said he believed I had faith in the success of
resumption, and would not interfere with it, but if I failed I would be the "deadest man politically"
that ever lived.

The general results of these interviews, which had a wide circulation at the time, I believe
were beneficial, and at least assured the public that a hopeful and determined effort was being
made to advance United States notes and national bank notes to par with coin.

Before I had these interviews I had determined to sell $50,000,000 bonds at the rate of $5,000,000
a month for gold coin or bullion for resumption purposes, and also to press the refunding operations
as rapidly as possible.  I had at my disposal an unlimited amount of five, four and a half
and four per cent. bonds, with authority to sell either kind to accumulate coin for the maintenance
of resumption, or for the payment of bonds that were at the time redeemable, bearing a higher
rate of interest.  My printed correspondence with banks and bankers shows the advancing value
of the four and four and a half per cent. bonds.  The most active agent for the sale of these
bonds was the First National Bank of New York, which had been the agent of the syndicate, and,
though having no privilege or facility that was not extended to all banks and bankers alike,
it evinced the utmost activity, intelligence and success, and took the lead in the sale of
bonds.  The advancing quotations furnished by it and other banks and bankers satisfied me that
the policy of an open loan, such as was provided for by the notice of January 18, 1878, would
be successful, if only we could have the certainty of coin payments by the 1st of January,
1879.  I knew of the sensitive jealousy between the banks and bankers and between the old syndicate
and prominent and wealthy firms who wished to participate in any new syndicate, and were jealous
and suspicious of each other.

Offers were made to me by banks and bankers for special arrangements for the purchase of bonds,
but I put them all aside until after I had written to all the parties a notice substantially
similar to the following, sent to Belmont & Co.:

  "Treasury Department, April 5, 1878.
"Gentlemen:--It is my purpose to be in New York at four o'clock on
Monday afternoon, and I would like, if practicable, to meet the
members of the old syndicate at the Fifth Avenue Hotel that evening
at any hour convenient to them, to confer as to the best mode of
obtaining $50,000,000 gold coin or bullion prior to January 1,
1879, for resumption purposes, and to receive from the associates,
or any of them, or from new parties, offers for any of the description
of bonds I am authorized to sell for that purpose.

"I propose to accumulate this coin in either the treasury, the assay offices, or the public
depositaries throughout the United States that will comply with the conditions of section 5153
Revised Statutes.

"I will send a similar letter to this to the First National Bank, and have to request that
you will give notice to the other members of the old syndicate, and, with their consent, to
any others you desire to participate in the interview.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary.
"Messrs. August Belmont & Co., New York."

I sent General Hillhouse the following notice:

  "Treasury Department, April 5, 1878.
"Sir:--You will please inform Messrs. H. F. Vail, president National
Bank of Commerce; J. D. Vermilye, president Merchants' National
Bank; George S. Coe, president American Exchange National Bank; B.
B. Sherman, Mechanics' National Bank, and James Buell, president
Importers and Traders' National Bank, that I desire an interview
with them at any hour on Tuesday next, at your office, or at such
other places as they may prefer, in respect to the purchase for
the Treasury for resumption of, say, $50,000,000 gold coin or
bullion, to be delivered monthly and before the 1st of January
next, either at your office or at the designated depositaries of
the United States, under section 5153 Revised Statutes, and also,
if practicable, to secure from them a bid for either of three
classes of bonds described in the refunding act to an amount
sufficient to purchase the coin stated.  These gentlemen are
respectfully requested to select such others connected with national
banks as they may agree upon to join in the interview.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary.
"General Thomas Hillhouse,
  "Assistant Treasurer United States, New York."

Regarding the negotiation as one of great importance, I was accompanied to New York by Hon.
Charles Devens, Attorney General; John Jay Knox, Comptroller of the Currency; Charles F. Conant,
Assistant Secretary; Daniel Baker, Chief of the Loan Division, and E. J. Babcock, my Secretary.

On the 8th of April I, with the gentlemen named, had an interview with the members of the old
syndicate, Messrs. Belmont, Seligman, Bliss, Fabri and Fahnestock.

I stated that the object of my visit to New York, and of my request for an interview with the
associates, was to obtain $50,000,000 coin for resumption purposes, and I would like to sell
four per cent. bonds to that amount.

Mr. Belmont did not think the four per cent. bonds could be sold then, and the associates all
concurred in the opinion that they would prefer making a proposition for the four and a halfs,
although they were not prepared to make any definite offer.  I said I would like to get 103
for the four and a halfs, but the associates said they would not consider that at all; they
would communicate with the Rothschilds and others, and might possibly be able to offer 101;
they would come to some conclusion by next day.

On the following day, at the National Bank of Commerce, I met the presidents of the national
banks:  Mr. Vail, Commerce; Mr. Vermilye, Merchants'; Mr. Coe, Merchants' Exchange; Mr. Sherman,
Mechanics'; Mr. Buell, Importers and Traders'; Mr. Moses Taylor, City; Mr. F. D. Tappan, Gallatin;
Mr. G. G. Williams, Chemical; Mr. F. A. Palmer, Broadway; Mr. George I. Seney, Metropolitan;
Mr. P. C. Calhoun, Fourth National.

Mr. Vail said that this meeting was called at my request, that the gentlemen present had no
information as to the object of the meeting, and had had no opportunity for consultation; that
I would explain more fully what I desired.

I said that I proposed to resume specie payments on the 1st of January, in accordance with
law, and that for this purpose I wished to get $50,000,000 of gold, and, to accumulate this
amount, would if possible, sell four per cent. bonds.

Mr. Vermilye and Mr. Coe spoke at some length to the effect that they were in full accord with
me on the subject of resuming specie payments, and they were willing to co-operate in any way
to bring it about.  They said that although they had not consulted with the other gentlemen
present, they had no doubt they were all agreed upon this subject.  They thought, however,
it would be utterly useless to attempt to sell four per cent. bonds, and that as far as such
bonds were concerned there need be no more said.

I said this being so, I would like to have some propositions for four and a halfs.

Mr. Coe said that no definite proposition could be made without further consultation among
themselves; that they were willing to assist to the extent of their power to obtain resumption;
that they would place themselves at my service in any way I might wish without compensation.
He said that he thought an arrangement could be made by which the national banks could be made
my agents in the sale of bonds.  He thought the banks might take the $50,000,000 of four and
a half per cent. bonds, to be paid for by the 1st of January, the government to receive whatever
the banks could get for the bonds.

I invited the gentlemen to confer among themselves, and, if practicable, make me some definite
proposition in the morning.

In the afternoon of the same day we met the members of the old syndicate.  Mr. Belmont read
a cable from the Rothschilds offering 101 for $100,000,000 four and a half per cent. bonds,
$50,000,000 for resumption and $50,000,000 for refunding purposes.

I said I was not prepared to accept, but would give a definite answer next day.

On the following morning I met Mr. Vail, of the National Bank of Commerce, and Mr. Vermilye,
of the Merchants' National Bank, at the sub-treasury.

Mr. Vail and Mr. Vermilye submitted a memorandum that if I would indicate my willingness to
receive a proposition for the negotiation of $50,000,000 four and a half per cent. bonds at
par in gold they would recommend the national banks to unite in making it.

I then asked Mr. Vail and Mr. Vermilye whether, if a proposition was made to me by bankers
of acknowledged credit and responsibility of 101 for four and a half per cent. bonds, payable
in installments and with the usual option, in their opinion, it was my duty to accept it.

They both said decidedly, yes; that such an arrangement would be far more advantageous than
the acceptance of their proposition, and besides, if they took the bonds, it might impair to
some extent their power to render the usual facilities to their commercial customers.

The proposition submitted by Messrs. Vail and Vermilye, in behalf of the national banks, was
as follows:

"If the secretary will intimate his willingness to receive a proposition from the national
banks in New York, Boston, Philadelphia and Baltimore for the negotiation of fifty millions
four and a half per cent. bonds at par in gold, for resumption purposes, we will recommend
our associates to unite in making it, with the belief on our part that it can be accomplished
as suggested.  This special loan to be the only bonds of this character offered, unless the
same parties have the option on any further sums required."

Afterwards, on the same day, I again met the members of the syndicate at the sub-treasury,
and said that I would sell only $50,000,000 four and a half per cent. bonds; that these must
be paid for in gold coin, for resumption purposes; that I would sell them for 101½, allowing
one-half of one per cent. commission, the syndicate to pay all expenses; but before signing
the contract wished to communicate with the President.

These terms were accepted by the syndicate upon condition that their associates in London would
consent, they reserving the right to cable to London for such consent; and the meeting adjourned
until 1:30 o'clock, when, I having received a telegram from the President, the details of the
contract were then discussed, and signature was delayed for an answer to the cable of the syndicate.

On the following day we again met at the sub-treasury, and Mr. Lucke, of Belmont & Co., informed
me that the English parties had authorized them to close the contract, and it was therefore
signed.  The bonds covered by this contract shall be sold for resumption purposes.

"Second.  The parties of the second part shall have the exclusive right to subscribe in the
same proportion of each of the subscribers for the remainder of the $50,000,000 of the four
and a half per cent. bonds of the United States authorized to be issued by the acts of Congress
aforesaid; but the amount to be so subscribed shall not be less than $5,000,000 for each and
every month after the present month of April.

"Third.  That the Secretary of the Treasury shall not sell, during the continuance of this
contract, any bonds other than such as by act of Congress may be provided to be sold for the
payment of the Halifax or Geneva award, and the four per cent. consols of the United States,
and those only for refunding purposes, except by mutual agreement of the parties hereto.

"Fifth.

"Signed by John Sherman, Secretary of the Treasury, J. & W. Seligman & Co., Morton, Bliss &
Co., August Belmont & Co., the First National Bank of New York, Drexel, Morgan & Co.; and by
Assistant United States Treasurer Thomas Hillhouse and E. J. Babcock, as witnesses."

The importance of this contract and the open publicity of the negotiation, created quite a
sensation in the newspaper press, which presented a medley of praise and censure.  All varieties
of opinion from extravagant flattery to extreme denunciation were visited upon me by the editors
of papers according to their preconceived opinions.  I made no effort at secrecy, and no answer
to either praise or blame, but freely contributed any information in respect to the matter
to anyone, whether friendly or otherwise, who applied to me.  Perhaps as accurate a statement
as any, of my opinions, was made by George Alfred Townsend, over his nom de plume of "Gath,"
in the New York "Graphic" of April 12, 1878.  He said:

"At four o'clock yesterday afternoon John Sherman, the Secretary of the Treasury, was sitting
in Parlor No. 1, the ante-room of the late Republican national committee, when I followed my
card into his presence.  'Ah!' he said, rising from an easy chair where he was resting, like
one recently wearied but now relieved.  'Come in; it's all over now, and I don't mind telling
you about it.'

'Yes, it's all over Wall street, and I think opinion was more favorable to the syndicate getting
the bonds than the bank presidents.'

'The representatives of the banks were very polite and well-meaning,' said the secretary. 
'I sent word that I was coming to the city and asked the national banks, as intimately related
to the treasury department, to select persons to meet me.  I also notified the members of the
old syndicate that I had some propositions to suggest to them.'

'This is your third visit on the general object of resumption?  A very eventful visit, isn't
it, in the story of our finances?'

'Well, both my previous visits were important--in May, 1877, when $200,000,000 of four and
a half per cent. bonds were disposed of, and again last June, when $75,000,000 of the four
per cent. bonds were subscribed for.  The present visit is probably the last with such an object.
I feel glad and relieved.'

'You failed to get the bank philosophers to get you the $50,000,000 of gold?'

'I thought I could see that they did not mean to enter into the subscription.  They all said
they wanted to see resumption achieved, and would like to aid it, but spoke of their obligations
to their commercial customers.  They said too, that they would have to rely on brokers to get
the gold and pay commissions for it, and were afraid it might be run up on them.  One or two,
perhaps, expected a more advantageous offer as to rates--indeed, wanted me to pay them a commission
for selling our bonds at par.  I can excuse them, because they will have to be looking after
the redemption of their own circulation.'

"I suggested to the secretary that some of the bank presidents had discouraged resumption or
treated it as a figment.

'When the congressional committee was over here,' he answered, 'there was something said about
the advantage of getting priority in the line on resumption day; but that is nothing.  They
were very civil, but didn't see the proposition favorably.'

'Is there any disadvantage in negotiating through the syndicate?'

'No, there is an advantage in this respect; they sold the higher bonds abroad, and taking these
will also place a part of them there, facilitating exchange in commercial settlements and interestedly
maintaining prices.  A portion of these low bonds ought to locate in Europe.'

'Speaking of exchange, Mr. secretary, the idea has been put forward here, in the fiscal form,
I believe, that a large, round balance of trade in our favor indicates poverty and collapse.
Is that good political economy?'

'There are nations,' said the secretary, 'like England, which have steady apparent balances
of trade against them, yet show a great prosperity.  But that is only the product of English
money invested in foreign places and colonies; it is an apparent purchase, but really their
own harvest.  No nation that is greatly in debt, as we are, can observe real balances of trade
overwhelmingly against us and not feel alarmed.'

'Do you expect any opposition from Congress as the reply to this negotiation and the near probability
of specie payments?'

'No, I do not think Congress will interfere.  The conservative element of the inflation party
was appeased by the reissue of $300,000,000, and the candid way in which their silver legislation
was carried out.  I do not anticipate that Congress can affect this action.'

'May not the surprise of the news that you so readily negotiated these bonds and secured your
gold, enrage those who have cast their political hopes upon preventing resumption?'

'I do not see why.  General Ewing and the finance committee were clearly apprised by me two
weeks ago of the exact plan I have followed out.  They questioned me directly, and I told them.
As no attack has been made upon that programme, I look for no successful resistance to its
performance.'

'Do you consider the price paid by the syndicate for these bonds as good?'

'It was the best that could at present be had.  I wanted them, first, to take $50,000,00 to
$100,000,000 of the four per cent. bonds at 103--bonds that I think preferable in some respects,
particularly for durable investment.  These gentlemen, however, thought those bonds not convenient
for them for ready sale, and they urged that I ought to let them have the four and a half per
cents. at par, as some had been put to the people at that.  I desired a premium of three per
cent.  They finally met me half way, and gave one and a half premium.  In short, we get a very
little scant of 103 currency for those bonds, for the syndicate pays over to us the accrued
interest.'

'You do not anticipate that they will take the $10,000,000 and decline the other $40,000,000?'

'No; I think our economy, industry, exports, production, ready resources and general physical
and political superiority will expand right onward, and protect everybody who puts faith in
our national securities.'

'How much gold have you absolutely got for resumption to-day?'

'Seventy-two millions clear net of our own.  I have nearly $140,000,000 present due, or coming,
not counting any liabilities on it.  The $50,000,000 I have secured to-day will give me, clear
of everything, $120,000,000 of gold, and that is plenty.'

'Have you read the views of Mr. Musgrave and other bankers, in "The Graphic," on the theory
that you have enough gold now and would not have to redeem much with your gold?  I heard a
merchant say this afternoon that you might not have $5,000,000 put at you!'

'That is more likely to be the case now,' said Mr. Sherman 'when I am so well protected.  There
might be a dash made at my $72,000,000 --not at my $120,000,000.'"

As a flattering background to his interview Mr. Townsend gave the following description of
myself, which I hope it will not be egotism to publish.  There were so many descriptions of
me of a different character that I feel at liberty to quote one that was quite friendly:

"John Sherman, as he sat before me, young looking, his air and beard in perfect color, his
manners gracious and indicating an easy spirit not above enjoyment, and manners not abraded
by application, seemed to be a very excellent example to young public men.  His nature had
not been worn out in personal contests, nor his courage abated by the exercise of discretion
and civility.  He was the earliest and best champion of the Republican party--its first candidate
for speaker of Congress, its last Secretary of the Treasury.  For twenty years he has been
in the national center of observation.  He owes to temperance and study, exercise and natural
sense, his present proud position as the principal exponent of the Republican party.  Not in
the Senate is that party seen at its best, but in the executive, where the President's original
discrimination is approved by time and events; he chose John Sherman first of the cabinet,
and within thirteen months he has concluded the last great treaty of the war--peace with the
public creditor. In our arising commerce and huge balances of trade, we observe again 'Sherman's
march to the sea.'"

The following statement in regard to the new loan and the national banks appeared in the "Financial
Chronicle" of April 13:

"Mr. Sherman has shown, in his interviews with the committees of the House and Senate, not
only his faith in the possibility of executing the resumption act, but also his determination
to do it; and the disclosures of the past few days are the signs of the progress he is making.
In fact, the events of the week, culminating in the successful negotiation with the syndicate
bankers of a sale of four and a half per cent. bonds, practically put at rest all doubts with
regard to the fact that on or before the 1st day of January, 1879, anyone can, on application
to the office of the assistant treasurer in New York, obtain gold or silver for greenbacks,
in sums of not less than fifty dollars.  The terms of the loan are substantially set out in
the following, which was posted, shortly after one o'clock on Thursday, on the bulletin boards
of the sub- treasury, the parties composing the syndicate being Drexel, Morgan & Co., and J.
S. Morgan & Co., of London; August Belmont & Co., and through them the Rothschilds, of London;
Morton, Bliss & Co.; J. & W. Seligman, and Seligman Brothers, of London; and the First National
Bank:

'The Secretary of the Treasury and the members of the last syndicate have entered into an agreement
for the sale, for resumption purposes, of $50,000,000 United States four and a half per centum
15-year bonds at par and accrued interest, and one and a half per centum premium in gold coin,
$10,000,000 to be subscribed immediately, and $5,000,000 per month during the balance of the
year.  The sale of four per centum bonds will be continued by the treasury department as heretofore,
upon the terms and conditions of the last circular, and the proceeds will be applied to the
redemption of six per centum 5-20 bonds.'

"This certainly will be considered a very favorable negotiation for the government."

Among the numerous letters received at this time, I insert the following:

  "Viroqua, Wis.,, April 14, 1878.
"Hon. John Sherman, Secretary of the Treasury.

"Dear Sir:--We have a Honest Money League started in Chicago, of which you are probably aware.
The secretary is the Hon. Thos. M. Nichol, who aided us so materially in carrying the state
last fall. He is one of the ablest defenders of honest money that we have in the northwest.
Any information you can furnish him will reach the people of the northwest.  I see by the dispatches
you have completed arrangements whereby you will be able to resume by January 1, 1879. I hope
Congress will have the good sense not to throw any obstacles in your way.  I used to, when
in the army, tell the boys to trust in General Sherman and keep their powder dry, and now I
feel like trusting in Secretary Sherman to keep our money honest.  I have no fears of the result
if Congress will let you alone.

  "Yours truly,
  "J. M. Rush."

The eastern press, almost without exception, gave its hearty approval of the contract made,
and the mode and manner of the negotiation. The leading papers in New York, including the "Herald,"
"Tribune," and "Times," gave full accounts.  In the west, however, where the greenback craze
or "heresy," as it was commonly called, prevailed, the press was either indifferent or opposed
to the contract and to the object sought.  It is singular how strong the feeling in favor of
an irredeemable paper currency was in many of the western towns and among the farming people.
United States notes, universally called greenbacks, were so much better as money than the bank
notes were before the war, that the people were entirely content with them, even if they were
quoted at a discount in coin.  They were good enough for them.  Any movement tending to reduce
their number was eagerly denounced.

At the very time when the negotiation was being made, the Senate finance committee was discussing
the expediency of agreeing to the bill repealing the resumption act which had passed the House.
The indications were that the committee had agreed upon a time when a final vote should be
taken upon this bill and that it would be favorably reported by a majority of one.  It depended
upon the vote of Mr. Ferry, who was strongly in sympathy with the sentiment in the House. 
It appeared quite certain that with a favorable report the bill would pass.  If passed it would
no doubt have been vetoed, but the moral effect of its passage would have been to greatly weaken
all measures for redemption.  I had frequent conversations with Mr. Ferry and appealed to him
as strongly as I could to stand by his political friends, and for the success of the negotiation.
He voted against reporting the bill.  I wrote him the following letter while the matter was
still pending:

  "Washington, D. C., May 1, 1878.
"Dear Sir:--The deep interest I feel in the pending legislation in
Congress, endangering as it does my hope of success in the great
object of resumption, will be my excuse for appealing to you again,
in the strongest manner, against the mandatory provision that,
under all circumstances, United States notes shall be receivable
in payment of customs duties.

"This provision may defeat the whole of our policy for which we have been struggling so long
and to which our party is so firmly committed.  Resumption on United States notes can be easily
maintained with a reasonable reserve and with a certainty that any considerable run will be
stopped by increased demand for United States notes, but there is one essential prerequisite
to our ability to resume, and that is that we must have coin income enough to pay the interest
of the public debt and other current coin demands.  To throw upon the treasury the possibility
of the necessity of buying coin to pay the interest of the public debt, in addition to buying
that which is necessary to maintain resumption on United States notes, is simply to overload
the wagon and break it down at the very start. Ordinarily the secretary would receive greenbacks
for duties (and, therefore, I have no objection to the discretionary authority being conferred
upon him), if he can use them also in payment of interest, but as we must pay the interest
in coin, and the slightest difference in favor of coin making it certain that demand would
be made for it for interest, we cannot undertake to buy sufficient coin to pay the interest
in addition to what we would naturally, under like circumstances, be required to pay such notes
as are presented.

"I have thought so much about this, and am so much troubled about it, that I would feel almost
like giving up the ship rather than to undertake the additional task which the bill as now
reported would impose upon me.  Surely we are so near the end of our long struggle that we
ought not to assume a fresh load, and I assure you that a mandatory provision requiring the
secretary to receive United States notes in payment of customs duties, without regard to the
time and circumstances, is simply a repeal of the resumption act, and it had better be done
openly and directly.  Because we have been so fortunate this far in the progress towards resumption
is no reason why we should assume an additional burden.

"Please state this to any others who you think would have any respect for my opinions, as I
do not wish to thrust them upon those who would like to thwart them; and, if overruled in this,
I trust you will make this letter public, for I will not be responsible for so serious a change
in the whole plan of resumption.  I said to the committee on finance that if the discretion
was conferred upon me to receive United States notes for duties, I had no doubt that I could
do so on the 1st of October, but it was not then supposed by anyone that such a provision would
be mandatory.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. T. W. Ferry, U. S. Senate."

While I was congratulating myself upon accomplishing an important work for the people, I had
aroused an animosity more bitter and violent than any I ever encountered before or since. 
I was charged, directly, by a correspondent of the "National Republican," published in Washington,
with corruption, and that I was interested in and would make money through the syndicate. 
It was said that I "came to the United States Senate several years ago a poor and perhaps a
honest man.  To-day he pays taxes on a computed property of over half a million, all made during
his senatorial term, on a salary of $6,000 a year and perquisites."  My property at home and
in Washington was discussed by this letter, and the inference was drawn that in some way, by
corrupt methods, I had made what I possessed.  It is true that I found many ready defenders,
but I took no notice of these imputations, knowing that they were entirely unfounded, for I
never, directly or indirectly, derived any advantage or profit from my public life, except
the salary.

At one time it was alleged that a sub-committee, consisting of Messrs. Ewing, Hartzell and
Crittenden, had been in correspondence with leading bankers, financiers and capitalists, and
that information had been obtained which led to the conclusion that I had derived profit from
the negotiation.  It was said that the committee proposed to interview me upon the subject
of my recent syndicate operations, that the syndicate would get about a $750,000 commission,
which could have been saved had outsiders been permitted to buy the bonds, that the committee
had summoned members of the syndicate and bankers who were not admitted into the syndicate,
but who wanted to be allowed to buy bonds without any commission, that the allegation was so
well supported that a resolution was prepared authorizing the committee to investigate, but
that this was unnecessary, as the resolution authorizing the banking and currency committee
to make inquiries concerning resumption conferred authority to inquire into this matter.  The
only sign of the alleged investigation was an inquiry from Mr. Ewing, which was answered by
me as follows:

  "Treasury Department, April 19, 1878.
"Hon. Thomas Ewing, Acting Chairman Committee on Banking and
  Currency, House of Representatives.

"Sir:--In compliance with your request of the 18th instant, I inclose herewith a copy of the
contract recently made with a syndicate of New York bankers for the sale of four and a half
per cent. bonds.  The only previous correspondence on this subject was a letter sent to said
bankers and one to the presidents of certain national banks, copies of which are inclosed.

"In response to your question as to the amount of accrued interest that will be allowed to
the syndicate at each payment on account of such sales, I have to reply that no accrued interest
is paid to them, but, as you will see by the fourth paragraph of said contract, they are to
pay the United States the amount of interest accrued on the bond up to the time of payment
for it, in addition to the premium of one and a half per cent.  The interest on the four and
a half per cent. bonds accrued on the 1st of March, and therefore, the interest is added from
that date to the date of payment for the bonds.

"The amount of commission to be paid is fixed by law at one-half of one per cent., but out
of this the associates are to pay all expenses incurred by them in the sale, and reimburse
the United States all expenses incurred by it as stated by said contract in paragraph 5.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

No further action was taken by the committee on banking and currency. Subsequently I wrote
Mr. Ewing the following letter:

  "May 21, 1878.
"Dear Sir:--I notice the crazy barkings of Buell in the 'Post'
about the syndicate, and favors granted to it by me.

"I wish to say to you that nothing would please me better than to have the banking and currency
committee examine into this matter, and I am quite sure you will be gratified that the result
will be to my credit.

"I have no desire to dignify this by asking an investigation, but only to say to you privately,
as a personal friend, that I court, rather than fear, such an inquiry.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. Thomas Ewing, House of Representatives."

It was at this time that it was alleged that Mr. Tappan, a New York bank president, said that
he would pay $50,000 to stand at the head of the line when the government began to pay out
gold; that he could put in $29,000,000 United States notes held by the New York banks and break
the government and take out all the gold.  It was said that Mr. Coe, a prominent banker in
New York, was asked his opinion whether I could resume, and that he said:  "Well, yes, I would
let the government resume, but it must sell a certain number of bonds to the banks at such
a figure."  Sensational reports were sent out from Washington to discredit the contract lately
made with the syndicate.  It was reported that the terms were concealed, that only ten millions
were contracted for, part of which it might be necessary to take back, and that the banking
and currency committee had summoned me to explain the contract.  So far from being true the
contract itself was printed in all the papers and the utmost publicity was given to every step
taken.

I had a very friendly acquaintance with Peter Cooper, for whom I had the highest respect, but
he had fallen into the general ideas of the greenbackers.  When in New York, early in April,
I called upon him and had a pleasant interview.

"But we had not the time to discuss fully some of those practical questions that involve this
financial policy, and I therefore now take the liberty, in a more deliberate manner, to ask
of you an answer to questions, which might throw light upon the public mind on these great
interests, and allay the anxiety which pervades the hearts of our people in reference to their
future prospects of business and employment, and show more clearly how the present policy of
the government in enforcing 'specie payments' by law and carrying out the 'resumption act,'
could be attended with any wholesome results to the financial interests of this country both
in the present and in the future.

"First.  Can you resume in the presence of $645,000,000 of legal tender and bank notes with
what gold and silver you may have at your command, without an actual shrinkage of this currency,
either on the part of the government or of the banks?

"Second.  Can 'resumption' be maintained after the law has placed a premium on coin, and virtually
demonetized the paper, by rendering its convertibility compulsory?  In other words, can the
present 'par value' of paper and coin be taken as an index that after the law has thrown its
whole weight in favor of coin, by making the paper 'convertible,' the present equilibrium between
the two can still be maintained?

"Third.  In connection with the fact that by purely commercial laws, we have already arrived
at specie payments, or the par between coin and paper money, what good will it do to thrust
the further power of the law on the side of coin?  How can we avoid placing the paper at the
mercy of those who will have control of the coin --especially the paper of the national banks,
whose chief credit will consist in maintaining 'specie payments?'

"Fourth.  After 'resumption,' how much money will the people have with which to transact business,
employ labor, enter into new enterprises, and use 'cash payments' instead of 'inflating credit'
to a ruinous degree, as in times past, under the system of specie payments, and convertibility
by law?

"Fifth.  It being the duty of Congress to make the necessary and proper laws for carrying into
execution a system of money, weights and measures as the only means to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the several states, to provide as far as possible an 'unfluctuating
currency,' a steady measure of prices, how can you prevent great and disastrous fluctuations
in our 'convertible money' and coin, arising out of the great demands for gold and silver that
may, at any time, be made upon us from the commercial relations of this country with Europe
over which the government can have no direct control?  With great respect I remain,

  "Your obedient servant,
  "Peter Cooper."

I made the following reply:

"Dear Sir:--Your letter of the 18th inst. is received.  The questions you ask me have been,
in the main, answered to the committees of the two Houses, and I might, perhaps, best reply
to your letter by sending these documents, printed by the order of the respective Houses; but
my sincere respect for you, and desire to allay any doubts you may entertain of the success
of the present plan of resumption, induce me to answer your letter as fully as my time will
allow.  But, assuming that the aggregate should be about the present amount, and remembering
always that the bank notes can be redeemed in legal tender notes, and are not required to be
redeemed in coin, I do express the opinion that resumption in a country like ours can be maintained
in the presence of the existing volume of circulation; but if this should prove to be too great,
the reduction will be gradually of the bank notes, or, if Congress so direct, of the legal
tender notes.  One- half of this circulation is not redeemable in coin at all, but in legal
tenders; nor does the law fix a premium on coin as against legal tenders, but simply requires
an equality.  Its convertibility is not compulsory.  It is upon the demand of the holder. 
The holder is as likely to deposit the coin, if he has it, as to deposit the notes for coin.
The currency would rest upon the presumption that all paper money rests upon, that its use
and convenience and convertibility will always keep it at par with coin.  If resumption is
desirable, it cannot be maintained by a repeal of the law, which requires resumption and grants
the necessary powers to prepare for it and to maintain it.  We will have the United States
notes, the bank notes, and coin certificates, both gold and silver, together with the gold
and silver itself, all in circulation.  The actual amount of currency in circulation, I think,
will be as large in specie times as now, and its equality and convertibility will rather increase
than prevent the circulation of either.  The depreciation of paper money is not necessarily
caused solely by its excess, but by the uncertainty of its value and confidence in its redemption.
When the treasury is actually unable to redeem its notes in coin, suspension comes necessarily,
but resumption would come again from the absolute necessity of currency for our daily wants,
and Congress could provide better in view of the actual facts than anticipated facts.

"I think the real difficulty that has stood in the way of resumption is the nightmare of things
that have existence only in the brain, and not in fact.  We can only deal with the current
course of events based upon probabilities, and cannot provide for unforeseen contingencies.

"It is my earnest hope that you and gentlemen like you, who I know are sincere in your convictions,
may see your way to trust to the policy that is now entered upon, which seeks to provide as
much paper currency as can be maintained at par in coin, and to secure its active circulation
in aid of industry and enterprise.

  "I am, with great respect,
  "John Sherman."

On the 13th of May, 1878, the charges against me assumed a different form, by the adoption,
in the House of Representatives, of a preamble and resolutions offered by Clarkson N. Potter,
of New York.  Among the recitals of this resolution was a charge that James E. Anderson and
D. A. Weber, supervisors of registration of the parishes of East and West Feliciana, falsely
protested that the election in such precincts had not been fair and free, and that the returning
board thereupon falsely and fraudulently excluded the vote of said precincts, and the choice
of the people was annulled and reversed, and that such action of said Weber and Anderson was
induced or encouraged by assurances from me.  The charge was based upon the following letter,
alleged to have been written by me:

  "New Orleans, November 20, 1876.
"Messrs. D. A. Weber and James E. Anderson.

"Gentlemen:--Your note of even date has just been received.  Neither Mr. Hayes, myself, the
gentlemen who accompany me, or the country at large, can ever forget the obligations under
which you will have placed us should you stand firm in the position you have taken. From a
long and intimate acquaintance with Governor Hayes, I am justified in assuming the responsibility
for promises made, and will guarantee that you will be provided for as soon after the 4th of
March as may be practicable, and in such manner as will enable you both to leave Louisiana,
should you deem it necessary.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman."

The charge was without any foundation whatever, and excited my resentment.  On the 20th of
May I wrote Mr. Potter the following letter:

  "May 20, 1878.
"Hon. Clarkson N. Potter, House of Representatives.

"First.  That there was a conspiracy among the voters to withhold and not cast the votes, with
a view to make a false charge on the election.

"Second.  That in point of fact there was a free and fair election in East and West Feliciana,
which was falsely protested and returned by said Anderson and Weber, by which the votes of
those parishes were falsely and fraudulently excluded by the returning board.

"Third.  That the offense of Anderson and Weber was encouraged by assurances by me.

"With the view, therefore, to meet this accusation, which, so far as it affects me, I declare
and know to be absolutely destitute of even the shadow of truth, I respectfully ask, and now
make formal application, for leave to be represented before your committee in the investigations
of all charges affecting me personally.  I tender and offer to prove that, in point of fact,
the election in East and West Feliciana parishes was governed and controlled by force, violence
and intimidation so revolting as to excite the common indignation of all who became conversant
with it, and proof was submitted to that effect, not only before the returning board in evidence
contained in ex. doc. No. 2, second session 44th Congress, but also in the testimony taken
by the committee of the Senate on privileges and elections, report No. 701, second session
44th Congress.

"I will, if allowed, furnish the names of witnesses whom I desire to examine before you to
prove the truth of this statement as to said parishes, and that the protests referred to were
true, supported by the testimony and properly acted upon and sustained by the returning board.
To my personal conduct during this examination I invite your fair and candid scrutiny, with
entire confidence that not only myself, but my associates of both political parties, acted
honestly and properly, from a sense of public duty.  I have requested Hon. Samuel Shellabarger
to deliver this to you, and I respectfully designate him as the gentleman I would desire, on
my part, to be present to cross-examine witnesses testifying in relation to charges against
me, and who will, as my counsel, tender evidence in proof of this statement.  The favor of
an early answer is requested.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman."

It is not necessary to detail the history of this investigation, of which so much was said
or printed at the time.  It was a partisan committee organized to stir up the controversy that
had been settled by the decision of the electoral commission.  The committee conducted a long
and expensive investigation.  The result was that the pretended letter was proven to be a forgery,
and that my conduct during the sittings of the returning board was shown to have been that
of a spectator, precisely like that of a score of other so- called visitors, of both political
parties.  The investigation proved to be a radical failure.  The report was not made until
March 3, 1879, the last day of the 45th Congress.  No action was taken upon it.

During the investigation I specifically denied, under oath, that I had ever written or signed
such a letter.  There was not the slightest proof, direct or indirect, that I did so.  The
majority, with great unfairness, instead of frankly stating that they were deceived by a forgery,
treated it as a matter in doubt.  In their report they do not allege or pretend that I wrote
or signed such a letter.  The evidence of their own witnesses was conclusive that it was written
by a Mrs. Jenks.

The report of the minority of the committee commented with severity upon the unfairness of
the majority, in the following language:

"The majority seem to us to have come short of what we had a right to expect from their candor,
when they fail to report explicitly whether the testimony on this subject sustains the charge
that such a letter as Anderson and Weber testified to was ever written by the Hon. John Sherman.
For our part, we report distinctly and emphatically that it does not, and that the palpable
perjuries of both the witnesses named justify a feeling of deep disgust that they should be
treated as capable of creating a serious attack upon the character of a man who has borne a
high character in the most responsible service of the country for five-and-twenty years.

"The charge, if it meant anything, was that of corruptly bribing Anderson and D. A. Weber to
perpetrate a fraud in the election returns of the Feliciana parishes.

"We find nothing in the testimony to show that Mr. Sherman either knew or believed that any
such fraud was committed.  We find abundant evidence that he believed that the protests against
the fairness of the election were honestly and rightly made.

"We cannot follow the majority in their yielding to what we must believe to be a prejudice
of party spirit, which has carried then even to the extent of intimating that the Secretary
of the Treasury was party to the pranks of an eccentric woman who dropped a parcel of letters
to set the local politicians of New Orleans agog--a woman who was called before the committee
a long time as a witness, but who was neither called, examined, nor cross-examined by the minority,
who, however they might share the public amusement at the performance, entirely declined to
take part in it.

"A considerable number of gentlemen who visited New Orleans, either at the request of President
Grant or of the national or local campaign committee, were called, and testified as to the
purpose of their visit and their procedure during it.

"Adhering to our purpose of leaving the majority to frame issues on which they were willing
to proceed in investigating, we did not seek to examine into the particulars of the conduct
of the Democratic visitors in Louisiana.  To let the testimony show the original resolutions
of inquiry to be both useless and mischievous, serving no purpose but the spread of unjust
scandal, seemed to us, in view of all former inquiries in the same direction, the proper course
to pursue.

"Messrs. Sherman, Garfield, Hale, Kelley, and others were examined, and their testimony was
compared with that by which it was attempted to impeach their motives and their conduct.  Their
account of their action is consistent and frank.  They believed that their party had rightfully
a good claim to the fruits of the election in that state.  They also believed that the notorious
violence and intimidation which had in former years disgraced that state had been again practiced
in the campaign of 1876.  They approved the action of the returning board in deciding, under
the powers given them by law, to declare null the pretended elections at precincts and polls
where evidence of such interference with the freedom of election had occurred.  We do not find
that they attempted to control the board or to dictate their action.  We do not find that they
attempted to dictate to witnesses or to procure false testimony to place before the board.
We do not find that they were in any way more partisan or less scrupulous than the similar
party of gentlemen who then represented the Democratic party.  The attempt to single out Mr.
Sherman for special attack seems to us to have had no original foundation but the testimony
of James E. Anderson, and the terms in which the majority, in their report, have characterized
that person, warrant us in declaring our opinion that when the character of that witness and
his testimony were discovered, it was the duty of the majority of the committee frankly to
abandon their effort to discriminate between Mr. Sherman and the other gentlemen who were associated
with him."

Shortly afterward I wrote the following letter to E. F. Noyes, then United States minister
at Paris, whose name was mentioned in the resolution of investigation:

  "Washington, D. C., April 1, 1879.
"My Dear Sir:--Your letter of the 18th ult. is received.

"The report of the Potter committee, which you correctly pronounce to be infamous, was received
in silence and was scarcely printed or noticed in the newspapers of the United States two days
after its presentation to the House.  It was then severely handled by the Republican press
and treated with silence by the Democratic press, and now it is not mentioned.  I think that
neither of us should complain of any injurious result from the Potter investigation; although
it was annoying, it was fair and creditable both to the committee and many of the witnesses.
But for the expense and trouble of the investigation, I am rather gratified that it occurred,
for the feeling of the Democratic party, over what they supposed was a fraudulent return, would
have deepened into conviction, while the investigation tended on the while to repel this suspicion.

* * * * *

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. E. F. Noyes."

Another investigation into the conduct of the department was inaugurated by J. M. Glover, of
Missouri, who, on November 6, 1877, introduced into the House of Representatives a resolution
directing the several committees of the House to inquire into the conduct of the different
branches of the public service coming under their charge, and the committees on expenditures
in the several departments to examine into the state of the accounts and expenditures of the
respective departments submitted to them.  This resolution in substance was adopted January
11, 1878, and Mr. Glover was chairman of the sub-committee to examine into the conduct of the
treasury department.  He came to the department and every facility was given him for examination.
He was allowed experts to aid him in the work, and continued the investigation for two years
until the close of the Congress.  His committee incurred much expense, but was unable to find
that any of the public money had been wasted or lost.  His report, submitted in the closing
days of Congress, was not ordered to be printed.  Subsequently, on the 15th of April, 1879,
after Mr. Glover had ceased to be a Member of the House, a petition from him was presented
asking that his report be printed, which was referred to a committee, but they did not seem
to think the report of much consequence, as they did not recommend it be printed.

The only financial bill that became a law during that session was the following, approved May
31, 1878:

"AN ACT TO FORBID THE FURTHER RETIREMENT OF UNITED STATES LEGAL TENDER NOTES.  And when any
of said notes may be redeemed or be received into the treasury under any law, from any source
whatever, and shall belong to the United States, they shall not be retired, canceled, or destroyed,
but they shall be reissued and paid out again and kept in circulation:  Provided, That nothing
herein shall prohibit the cancellation and destruction of mutilated notes and the issue of
other notes of like denomination in their stead, as now provided by law.

"All acts and parts of acts in conflict herewith are hereby repealed."

I recommended the passage of this law, as I believed that the retirement of the greenbacks
pending the preparation for resumption, by reducing the volume of the currency, really increased
the difficulties of resumption.

The session of Congress closed on the 26th of June, 1878.  During the recess the business of
the department proceeded in the ordinary way, without any event to attract attention, but all
that happened tended in the right direction.  The crops were good, confidence became assurance,
and all business was substantially based upon coin.

In consequence of the sale of four and a half per cent. bonds for resumption purposes the return
of Mr. Conant to London became necessary.  His numerous letters advised the department of the
current of financial operations in Europe.  There was some fluctuation in the relative price
of United States notes and coin, chiefly caused by our demand for gold and the appearance in
the market of bonds of other countries.  At one period the sale of four and a half per cent.
bonds became more rapid than the contract provided for, and this rapid accumulation of coin
tended to advance its price, which I desired to avoid, and, therefore, strictly limited the
sale of the four and a half per cent. bonds to $5,000,000 a month, thus preventing an unusual
demand for coin.  During this period there was a constant effort of banks and bankers, chiefly
in New York, to have some exceptional privilege in the purchase of four per cent. bonds.  This
was in every case denied.  The published offer of the sale of these bonds was repeated during
every month, and the terms prescribed were enforced in every instance without favor or partiality.

On the 12th of July W. S. Groesbeck, one of the members of the monetary commission about to
assemble in Europe, applied to the department for information that would enable the American
conferees to assure the conference that the United States would resume by the time fixed, and
should therefore be regarded by the conference as not in a state of suspicion.  I responded
to his letter as follows:

  "Treasury Department,             }
  "Washington, D. C., July 15, 1878.}
"William S. Groesbeck, Esq., Cincinnati, Ohio.

"Dear Sir:--Your letter of the 12th instant was received during my temporary absence, and I
comply with your request with pleasure.

"Accompanying this I send you sundry documents, duly scheduled, which contain in detail the
law and my views on the resumption question.

"Among these papers is a letter from the treasurer of the United States, of date July 6, showing
the exact coin on hand for all purposes, a careful examination of which will prove to you our
ability to resume at the time fixed by law.

"It will be perceived that we have on hand in the treasury coin enough to cover all our coin
liabilities of every name and nature, and also thirty five per cent. of the aggregate amount
of United States notes outstanding, with an excess of $2,474,822.  We have also $7,139,529
of fractional silver coin, which will be used for current expenses.

"Of the United States notes outstanding, at least sixty millions are held in the treasury,
either as the property of the United States or as special funds for purposes prescribed by
law, which cannot readily be diminished.

"In addition, the secretary is authorized to sell bonds for the purchase of coin or bullion,
and he may use United States notes for the same purpose.  Our revenue, both in coin and currency,
is more than sufficient to pay all current expenses covered by the appropriations of Congress.

"Considering that the United States notes are scattered over a vast country, are in great favor
and demand, and extremely popular, I feel entire confidence in the ability of the treasury
to resume on the 1st of January next, and the leading bankers and brokers of New York are of
the same opinion.

"I know of nothing that can prevent the United States from taking its place among the specie-paying
nations at this time, except the possible repeal by Congress of the resumption act, and this
I do not anticipate.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

In the latter part of August, 1878, I made a visit to Ohio, first going to Mansfield where
I was cordially received.  In the evening I was serenaded, and after the band had played several
times I went to the steps of the hotel and made a few impromptu remarks, reported as follows
by the local paper:

"Fellow Citizens:--I thank you heartily for the courtesy of this serenade, and especially the
members of the band who have favored us with their excellent music.  I will be here with you
but for a few days, and welcome with joy the sight of home, and the familiar faces and scenes
around me.  I do not desire to say anything of politics, or of matters upon which we do not
agree, but prefer to meet you all as old acquaintances and townsmen, having common interests
and sympathies as to many things as to which we do agree. And I especially congratulate you
upon the bountiful harvests, fruitful orchards and reviving prosperity with which you are blessed.
I will be glad to shake hands with any of you, and to talk with you free from all artificial
restraints."

I went from Mansfield to Toledo, where I had agreed with the state central committee to make
a speech, and where the opposition to resumption was stronger than in any other city in the
state.  Here the so-called National party had its origin.  I knew a great many of the citizens
of Toledo and the prevailing feeling on financial topics.  I, therefore, carefully prepared
a speech, covering all the leading questions involved in the campaign, especially all that
related to our currency.  The meeting was held August 26, in a large opera house, which would
seat 2,500 people.  I found it full to overflowing.  Every particle of space in the aisles
was occupied and it was estimated that 3,000 people were gathered within its walls.  I will
give the narrative of a correspondent of the St. Paul "Pioneer Press," who was an eyewitness
of the scenes that followed:

"Secretary Sherman was not received with that hearty greeting common to a man of such prominence
at first, while the organization that had been picketed in different parts of the hall at once
commenced hissing at the first sight of the tall, slender form of the speaker. Until his introduction
the emotion was the same, and as soon as he commenced to speak he was interrupted with jeers
and insults from what Nasby, in his paper, called the 'hoodlums of the city,' who came organized
and determined to break up the meeting without giving the speaker a chance to be heard, by
shouting at the top of their voices such insults as 'You are responsible for all the failures
in the country;' 'You work to the interest of the capitalist;' 'Capitalists own you, John Sherman,
and you rob the poor widows and orphans to make them rich;' 'How about stealing a President;'
'Why don't you redeem the trade dollar?'

"These, with many other like flaunting sneers, were constantly indulged in by the disorderly
element, which had been distributed with care throughout the hall.  So boisterous and moblike
was their behavior that it was apparent several times that it would be impossible to maintain
order, and notwithstanding the speaker stated that if any gentlemen wished to ask any question,
upon any point that he might discuss, in their order, he would be glad to answer them, and
invited criticisms, but one such question was asked by Mr. F. J. Scott, one of the leading
lights of the Nationals, who wished to know the difference between 'fiat' money and greenbacks;
the speaker replied:  'Fiat money is redeemable nowhere, payable nowhere, for no amount without
security, at no time, and without a fixed value; while greenbacks are redeemable in specie
at par, at a fixed time, and secured by the pledge of the government.'

"By this ready, pointed and satisfactory answer the speaker turned the tide, and the applause
was hearty in his favor.  When answering Judge Thurman the speaker alluded to the charge made
by him that the 'Republican party was the enemy of the country.'  Then, after calling attention
to the war record of the Democratic party, the speaker said:  'Who is the enemy of the country?'
[A voice from a 'hoodlum,' 'John Sherman.']  'Why,' says the speaker; 'because he has brought
greenbacks up to par value, and is in favor of honest money?'  This was another cause for an
outburst of applause and approval to the speaker, although it was very doubtful, in the beginning
of the speech, whether he could carry enough of the vast audience, with the large disturbing
element opposing intermingled among them, with him.  But long before the closing of his discourse
it became apparent that John Sherman is able to defend his position, even in the camp of the
enemy, while the ungentlemanly acts of the disorganizing element were disgusting to the better
element of their party.  It also effectively revived the lukewarm Republicans in this community,
and it may be well said that John Sherman did what no other man could have done, that is, to
go to a place like Toledo, stand before an organized party which was determined to prevent
his speaking, while his own party was lukewarm toward him --it was frequently asserted here
'John Sherman had not a single friend in the city'--and during his speech of two hours turn
the popular tide in his favor, as was evident he did from the hearty applause he received as
he proceeded in his remarks; and it is safe to say that no man in these United States could
have done the Republican cause, in this place, the good that Secretary Sherman did by his speech,
and the 'Toledo National hoodlums,' in their efforts to break up the meeting, 'gave the old
man a reception,' as was remarked on the streets; but throughout his speech he kept his temper,
kept cool and considerate, made remarks of cheer by saying, 'This is only a love feast,' and
'We will feel better natured after a while, as we become better acquainted,' etc., etc."

The narrative given by the correspondent is perhaps a little exaggerated, but the general outlines
are correct, as I very distinctly remember.  The result was that my carefully prepared speech
was knocked into "pi," and I had to depend upon the resources of the moment to make a speech
suitable to the occasion and the crowd.  The Cincinnati "Enquirer," to which, as to other papers,
a copy of the prepared address had been sent, had two stenographers in Toledo to report the
speech as made and telegraph it to the paper.  They did so and the speech as reported and published
in the "Enquirer" was so much more sensational and better than the prepared speech that it
was selected by the Republican state committee for publication as a campaign document.  This
enterprise of an unfriendly newspaper resulted to my advantage rather than my detriment, for
on account of the interruptions the speech reported was much more readable than the other.

No doubt the feeling in Toledo grew out of the long depression that followed the panic of 1873,
that for a time arrested the growth and progress of that thriving and prosperous city.  The
people wanted more money, and I was doing all I could, not only to increase the volume of money
by adding coin to our circulation, but to give it value and stability.  I have spoken in Toledo
nearly every year since, and have always been treated with courtesy and kindness, and many
of my best friends now in Toledo are among those who joined in interrupting me, and especially
their leader, Mr. Scott.

From Toledo I went to Cincinnati.  I have been for many years an honorary member of the Chamber
of Commerce of Cincinnati, a body of business men as intelligent and enterprising as can be
found anywhere.  It has been my habit to meet them once a year and to make a short speech.
This I did on August 28.  The "Gazette" reported my visit as follows:

"Secretary Sherman was on 'change yesterday, and, at the close of the business hour, he was
introduced by President Hartwell, and was greeted with applause, after which he spoke as follows:

'Gentlemen:--It gives me pleasure to meet so many of the active business men of Cincinnati,
even for a brief period.  In the office which I hold I have a great deal to do with merchants,
like these engaged in the exchange of the products of our industries, and I congratulate you,
first of all, that this fall, by the bounty of Divine Providence, you will have to market the
largest crop we have ever gathered in this country since the world was born.

'In every part of our country, with but few exceptions, and only as to certain crops, are crops
greater than ever before, and you will have to buy and sell them.

'The only point of an unpleasant nature, that occurs to me, affecting the industrial interests
which you so largely represent, is the misfortune which has befallen large portions of the
south, where yellow fever, one of the worst enemies of human life, now has spread a pall of
distress among our southern brethren.  I am glad, fellow- citizens, that you are doing something
to contribute to the relief of their sufferings, because business men, above all others, are
to be humane and generous to those who are in distress.

'That this will, to some extent, affect the business of gathering cotton, I have no doubt will
occur to you all, but you can only hope that it will be but a brief season until the frost
will dissipate the distress of the south and the cotton crop may be safely gathered.

'There is another thing I can congratulate you upon as business men, that is--our currency
is soon to be based upon the solid money of the world.  I do not want to talk politics to you,
and I do not intend to do so, but I suppose it is the common desire of all men engaged in business
to have a stable, certain standard of value, and although you and I may differ as to the best
means of obtaining it, and as to whether the means that have been adopted have been the proper
means, yet I believe the merchants of Cincinnati desire that their money shall be as good as
the money of any country with which we trade.  And that, I think, will soon be accomplished.

'Now, gentlemen, I do not know that there is any other topic on which you desire to hear from
me.  I take a hopeful view of our business affairs.  I think all the signs of the times are
hopeful. I think it a hopeful fact that, after this week, there will be an end of bankruptcies,
that all men who believe that they are not in a condition to pay their debts will have taken
the benefit of the law provided for their relief, and, after Saturday next, we will all stand
upon a better basis--on the basis of our property and our deserved credit.

'It has been the habit, you know, of one of your able and influential journals to charge me
with all the bankruptcies of the country. If a grocer could not sell goods enough to pay expenses,
and a saloon keeper could not sell beer enough to get rich, and took the short way of paying
his debts, this paper would announce the fact that he had "Shermanized."  [Laughter.]  And
if a bank was robbed, or the cashier gobbled the money in the safe and left for parts unknown,
this able editor announced that the bank had "Shermanized." And thus this paper contributed
largely to the very result it denounced.  You understand how this thing works.

'But we have passed through this severe crisis.  It has been common in all countries and all
states that carry on extensive commercial transactions with each other.  I believe that we
are through with this one; a ray of hope has dawned on us, and we are certainly entering upon
a career of prosperity.  Every sign of business is hopeful.  We have paid off immense amount
of our debts.  We do not owe Europe anything of consequence.  We have gone through the debt
paying process.  A few years ago we were running in debt at the rate of $100,000,000 a year,
but lately we have been paying off our debt at the rate of $100,000,000 a year.  From this
time on we will be more prosperous.  Take heart, you men of Cincinnati; you men who represent
the great interests in this great city; you who live in the heart of the great west, take heart
in the transaction of your business, because I believe you have reached a solid basis upon
which to conduct your business profitably, the basis of solid coin.'"

From Cincinnati I went to Lancaster, the place of my birth, and where my eldest sister, Mrs.
Reese, resides.  I need not say that the visit was a pleasant one, for it was necessarily so.
A great many among those whom I saw had been my associates in boyhood, and, as a matter of
course, the topics of conversation were mainly of the past.  A dispatch to the Cincinnati "Gazette"
of the date of August 30, briefly describes my visit and gives the substance of a few remarks
I was called upon to make by an impromptu gathering in the evening at the residence of my sister:

"The Lancaster band serenaded Secretary John Sherman this evening, at the residence of his
sister, Mrs. General Reese.  A very large crowd assembled on the occasion, and, in response,
Senator Sherman made one of the neatest, pleasantest, and most satisfactory little talks heard
here for many a day.  Of course he began by touching upon his early boyhood, and some of the
incidents of the same spent here in old Lancaster, the place of his nativity; told of his incipient
struggles in life with the rod and chain on an engineer corps in the Muskingum valley; how
he was ushered into the sterner vicissitudes of life, and how he drifted into politics; and
then, without using the occasion for party purposes, without making a political speech, he
explained in well selected language his position as an officer of the government; what was
the course prescribed for him to do, how he was doing it, and concluding with a most clear
and intelligible exegesis of the resumption act; what it was, its intent, purpose and meaning;
and with convincing nicety and clearness, and evident satisfactoriness, was his explanation
given, that he was frequently interrupted by spontaneous applause from the crowd.  He told
how the credit of the country was advancing as we near the solid foundation of hard money;
how the American people were the most favored, the greatest blest, the freest and most prosperous
people on the earth; how the signs of the times in busy shops and abounding field told of the
disappearing hard times, and the dawning of an era of greater peace and prosperity."

I returned to Washington, and at once proceeded to arrange with the treasurer and assistant
treasurers of the United States to make the change from currency to coin easy.  I conferred
with General Hillhouse, assistant treasurer at New York, upon the subject and had his opinions
verbally and in writing.  I conferred freely with James Gilfillan, treasurer of the United
States, and, as a result of these conferences, on the 3rd of September, I directed the treasurer
of the United States, upon the receipt by him, from any person, of a certificate, issued by
any assistant treasurer, designed depositary, or national bank designated as a public depositary
of the United States, stating that a deposit of currency had been made to his credit in general
account of the sum of one thousand dollars, and any multiple thereof, not exceeding ten thousand
dollars, to cause a shipment to be made, from some mint of the United States to the person
in whose name the certificate was issued, of a like amount of standard silver dollars, the
expense of transportation to be paid by the mint.

The sole purpose of this order was to facilitate the circulation of standard silver dollars
for all purposes as currency, but not to issue them so as to be used directly in making those
payments to the government which were required to be made in coin.  I wished to avoid their
deposit for silver certificates.  Officers receiving deposits of currency were expected, as
far as practicable, to see that the silver dollars were put in circulation.  Shipments, however,
were to be made only to points in the United States reached through the established express
lines by continuous railway or steamboat communication.

I regarded this as practically the resumption of specie payments in silver dollars, but the
chief object aimed at was to secure a general distribution of these dollars throughout the
United States, to the extent of the demand for them, without forcing them into circulation.

General Hillhouse recommended the payment of silver for all purposes, not only for circulation,
but for the payment of bonds and customs duties.  This I fully considered, but thought it best
for the present to get into ordinary circulation among the people, in points remote from the
ports of entry, as much silver coin as practicable, before offering it freely in cities where
it would be immediately used for customs duties.  I said:  "If, within a month or so, we are
able to reduce our stock of silver to five or six millions, I should not hesitate a moment
to offer it then freely in New York and elsewhere, and run the risk of doing without gold revenue
for awhile."

On September 7 I issued the following order:

  "Treasury Department, September 7, 1878.
"Hon. James Gilfillan, Treasurer of the United States.

"Sir:--On and after the 16th day of this month you are authorized, at the treasury in Washington,
and at the several sub-treasuries in the United States, to exchange standard silver dollars
for United States notes.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

The question was raised in the public prints, and in the department, whether I had legal authority,
under the existing laws, to pay silver dollars in exchange for United States notes before the
1st of January.  It was plausibly urged that the payment of this coin in advance of the time
fixed for resumption was the exercise of authority not authorized by law.

"Silver dollars will be issued as heretofore, in the purchase of silver bullion, in payment
of coin liabilities, and in the mode pointed out in your order of July 19, as modified.

"With a view to their payment on current liabilities, you will request that each disbursing
officer estimate the amount he can conveniently disburse.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

This change of my opinion was the subject of much criticism in the public prints.  Some complained
that I was unfriendly to the silver dollar and sought to prevent its use, and others complained
that its use before the 1st of January as a substitute for gold coin was a violation of the
law.  My only purpose was to accustom the people to the use of the silver dollar in the interior
of the country at places where it could not be used in the payment of customs duties.  These
could only be paid in coin, and, in view of resumption, I desired to strengthen the treasury
as much as possible by the receipt of gold coin.  The charge that I was guilty of changing
my mind did not disturb me when I was convinced that I had exceeded my authority in the issue
of the first order.

At that time there was an evident reluctance to pay coin into the treasury for four per cent.
bonds sold, when, within a brief period, United States notes could be paid for such bonds.
I therefore directed the treasurer of the United States:  "Where deposits with national banks
on account of subscriptions to the four per cent. loan have not been paid into the treasury
within ninety days after the deposit was made, you will at once draw for the amount of such
deposits, to be forthwith paid into the treasury, and as such deposits accrue under this rule,
you will make such withdrawals until the whole is paid."

I also directed the chief of the loan division as follows:

"No doubt most of the depositaries will place coin to their credit within the period of the
call outstanding after subscriptions are made, according to the circular of the 1st ultimo,
but if this is not done, the deposit must be withdrawn at the expiration of ninety days from
the date of subscription."

I also advised August Belmont & Co., that the department expected that by the 1st of October
the remainder of the coin then due upon the four and a half per cent. bonds, both from the
American sales and those made in London, would be paid into the treasury; that it was deemed
best that this should be done, so that the account of this loan might be closed as soon thereafter
as the books could be made up.  This request was promptly complied with.

Early in October there were many rumors in circulation charging that prominent capitalists
and speculators were combining to defeat resumption.  Among them Jay Gould was mentioned as
being actively engaged in "bearing" the market.  About this period I received from him the
following letter:

  "578 Fifth Avenue, Oct. 17, 1878.
"Hon. John Sherman.

"Dear Sir:--Referring to recent newspaper statements that I have been interested in movements
either to tighten money or create a scarcity of gold and thus interfere with natural and early
resumption, I beg to say that they are without the slightest foundation.  On the contrary I
feel a very deep interest in your efforts, so far eminently successful in carrying the country
to a successful resumption.

"If resumption is made a real success it will be accompanied with substantial business prosperity
and do more to strengthen and retain the ascendency of the Republican party than any and all
other reasons.

"The real causes of the recent disturbances in the money market are the following:

"First.  Government bonds have come back from Europe faster than investment orders would absorb
them--the surplus are carried on call loans and have absorbed several millions of dollars.

"Second.  The financial troubles in England are retarding the rapid movement of western produce.
The elevators at Chicago and Milwaukee are full of grain; at Chicago alone about 7,000,000
bushels.  The currency sent west to pay for this grain will not be released until the grain
is marketed.

"Third.  A large amount of foreign capital usually lent on call in Wall street has been transferred
to London and Liverpool as money commands (or has until recently) better rates there than in
New York.

  "I remain, yours very truly,
  "Jay Gould."

The purchase of four per cent. bonds sensibly increased in October. As the six per cent. bonds
could not be paid within ninety days after the call, the purchasers of the four per cent. bonds
claimed the right to pay for such bonds in United States notes, which on the 1st of January
would be redeemable in coin.  To this I replied that as the sale of four per cent. bonds was
solely for the purpose of refunding the six per cent. bonds, the proceeds of the sale must
be such as could be lawfully paid for called bonds.  "Under existing law the treasury is required
to and will redeem in coin, on and after January 1, 1879, United States legal tender notes,
on presentation at the sub-treasury in New York, and will then receive such notes in payment
for four per cent. bonds.  The department does not anticipate any change in the law that would
operate to prevent this, but cannot stipulate against any act which Congress in its judgment
may pass."

Every facility which the law allowed to promote the easy change in the basis of our currency
was carefully considered and adopted. The chief measure adopted was to promote exchanges in
the clearing house in New York, so that only the balance of debits or credits would actually
be paid.  I requested Assistant Secretary French to examine whether, under existing law, such
an arrangement was in the power of the department, and called his attention to previous correspondence
in 1875 in the department on this subject.  He came to the conclusion that the existing law
would not justify such an arrangement.  John Jay Knox, comptroller of the currency, however,
favored the admission of the assistant treasurer of the United States at New York as a member
of the clearing house.  He said:

"The proposition is favored by the banks generally, and it is believed that the representation
of the treasury department in the clearing house will facilitate the transaction of business
between the department and the banks, and I therefore respectfully suggest that application
be made for the admission of the assistant treasurer in New York to the Clearing House Association,
provided it shall be found that there is no legal objection thereto."

General Hillhouse also was strongly in favor of the plan proposed. He said:

"The plan of going into the clearing house was proposed in correspondence with the department
several years ago, as a remedy for the risk incurred in the collection of checks, and if there
are no legal impediments in the way, it would very much simplify the business of the office
if it could be adopted.  The effect in connection with resumption would also, I think, be good,
as it would place the banks and the treasury on the same footing with respect to the use of
United States notes in settlements, and thus aid in maintaining them at par with gold in all
the vast transactions connected with our internal trade and commerce.  I have not given the
question sufficient thought to speak with confidence, but it seems to me a very important one,
and well worthy of careful consideration."

A committee of the clearing house called upon me and the subject was thoroughly considered.
Mr. Gilfillan wrote to General Hillhouse as follows:

  "Treasury of the United States.}
  "Washington, November 9, 1878. }
"Sir:--By direction of the secretary, I have the honor to request
that you will submit to the Clearing House Association of the banks
of your city the following propositions, and, upon obtaining the
assent of the association to them and communicating that fact to
the department, you are expected to act in conformity with them.

"First.  Hereafter, drafts drawn upon any bank represented in the Clearing House Association
in the city of New York, received by the assistant treasurer in that city, may be presented
to such bank at the clearing house for payment.

"Second.  Hereafter, drafts drawn on the assistant treasurer at New York may be adjusted by
him at the clearing house, and the balances due from the United States may be paid at his office
in United States notes or clearing house certificates.

"Third.  After the 1st of January next, payment of checks presented to the assistant treasurer
by any bank connected with the clearing house may be made by him in United States notes.

  "Very respectfully,
  "James Gilfillan, Treasurer United States.
"Hon. Thomas Hillhouse, Assistant Treasurer United States, New
  York."

General Hillhouse, on the 12th of November, advised me of the receipt of this letter, and that
the propositions of the treasurer were referred to the Clearing House Association, that a meeting
would be held and there was little doubt but that they would be accepted.

On the same day the Clearing House Association, fifty out of fifty- eight banks, members of
the associations, being present, unanimously adopted the following resolutions:

"Resolved, That in order to facilitate the payment of drafts and checks, between the treasurer
of the United States and the associated banks, the manager of the New York clearing house is
authorized to make such an arrangement with the assistant treasurer as will accomplish that
purpose through the medium of the clearing house.

"Resolved, That the reported interview between the members of the clearing house committee
and the Secretary of the Treasury, with the views expressed by them to him in the paper presented
to this meeting upon the subject of the restoration of specie payments, meets the cordial approbation
of this association, and that the practical measures recommended for the adoption of the banks
in respect to their treatment of coin in their business in the public, and with each other,
be accepted and carried into practical operation; and, in pursuance thereof, it is hereby further

"Resolved, That the associated banks of this city, after the 1st of January, 1879, will, first,
decline receiving gold coins as 'special deposits,' but accept and treat them as lawful money;
second, abolish special exchanges of gold checks at the clearing house; third, pay and receive
balances between banks at the clearing house, either in gold or United States legal tender
notes; fourth, receive silver dollars upon deposit only, under special contract to withdraw
the same in kind; fifth, prohibit payments of balances at the clearing house in silver certificates,
or in silver dollars, excepting as subsidiary coin, in small sums (say under $10); sixth, discontinue
gold special accounts, by notice to dealers, on 1st of January next, to terminate them.

"Resolved, That the manager of the clearing house be requested to send copies of the proceedings
of this meeting to clearing houses in other cities, with an expression of the hope that they
will unite in similar measures for promoting the resumption of coin payments."

I accepted in the following note:

  "Treasury Department,                 }
  "Washington, D. C., November 13, 1878.}
"George S. Cox, President American Exchange National Bank, New York.

"Sir:--Your letter of yesterday, advising me of the adoption by the Clearing House Association
of the result of our recent interview, is received with much pleasure.

"The end we all aim at, a specie standard and a redeemable currency, is greatly promoted by
the judicious action of the banks, and I will, with greater confidence, do my part officially
in securing the maintenance of resumption.

  "John Sherman, Secretary."

This arrangement, entered into with care, proved to be a measure of very great advantage to
the government as well as to all business men engaged in the great commercial operations of
New York.  The necessary details to carry this agreement into effect were arranged between
General Hillhouse, for the United States, and W. A. Camp, manager of the New York clearing house.

CHAPTER XXV.

At the beginning of the administration of President Hayes, and for months previous, there had
been complaints as to the conduct of business in the principal customhouses of the United States.
This was especially called to my attention, and at my suggestion the President directed an
examination into the conduct of the customhouses at New York, Philadelphia, New Orleans, San
Francisco and perhaps other ports.  Examinations were made by intelligent business men selected
in the various ports, and full reports were made by them, and printed as public documents.
Many changes were made, and reforms adopted, founded upon these reports, and there was no difficulty
except only at the port of New York, where more than two-thirds of all the customs revenue
was collected.  Chester A. Arthur was then collector of the port, A. B. Cornell was naval officer,
and George H. Sharpe was appraiser.

On the 23rd of April, 1877, I designated John Jay, Lawrence Turnure, of New York, and J. H.
Robinson, Assistant Solicitor of the Treasury, as a commission on the New York customhouse.
They were requested to make a thorough examination into the conduct of business in that customhouse.
Full instructions were given and many specifications were made in detail of all the points
embraced in their examination.

On the 24th of May they made their first report, preferring to treat the general subject-matter
separately.  This report related chiefly to appointments upon political influence without due
regard to efficiency. "Hon. John Sherman, etc."

My answer to the commission was as follows:

  "Treasury Department, May 26, 1877.
"Gentlemen:--Your first report on the customhouse in New York, of
date the 24th instant, has been received, and the reduction proposed
by you of twenty per cent. of the number of persons employed therein
is approved.

"So far as these offices are created by law, vacancies will be made and left for the action
of Congress.  The reduction of the other employees, the number of whom and whose compensation
are not fixed by law, will be made as soon as practicable.

"I am much gratified that the collector, the naval officer, and the surveyor of the port, concur
with you in the proposed reduction.

"The hours of employment, after the 31st of this month, will be from 9 o'clock a. m. till 4
o'clock p. m., excepting where a longer time is prescribed by law.  This corresponds to the
hours of clerical service in this department.  This rule will be strictly enforced, and absence
will be the cause of reduction of pay or removal. Strict attention to duty will be required,
and other business will not be allowed to interfere with the full discharge of the duty attached
to the office.

"I notice that you do not suggest a mode of carrying into effect the reduction of the force
recommended, and I cannot, with due regard to the remaining subjects of your inquiry, ask you
to extend your investigation into the personnel of each employee, his character, efficiency,
and merits.  This must be mainly left to the collector, who, by law, is authorized to employ,
with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, proper persons as deputy collectors, weighers,
gaugers, and measurers, in the several ports within his district.  Thus, nearly all the officers
of the customhouse are appointed by the collector, and, with the approval of the Secretary
of the Treasury, may be removed at pleasure.  He will be promptly called upon, under special
orders, to perform this delicate and onerous duty.  It is very important that it should be
executed with due regard to the efficiency and merit of the employees, and so as best to promote
the public service.

"In order that a rule might be furnished him, I called upon the President for instructions
to govern alike the collector and myself in the execution of this duty.  A copy of his answer
is hereto annexed.

"I believe the opinions expressed by the President will meet with your hearty approval, and
they are in harmony with your report.

"Permit me to add the thanks of this department for your care, ability and industry in conducting
this inquiry.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary.
"Messrs. John Jay, L. Turnure, and J. H. Robinson,
  "Commission on Custom House, New York."

I inclosed a copy of the report of the commission to Collector Arthur, with the following letter
of instruction:

  "Treasury Department, May 28, 1877.
"Sir:--Inclosed I send you a copy of the first report of the
commission on the New York customhouse, recommending a large
reduction of the employees in the various offices in your collection
district, and the approval and adoption of that report.

"It only remains now to execute this order, upon the principles and in the spirit stated by
the President.  This task, always an unpleasant one, when it requires the removal of employees,
falls mainly upon you, subject to my approval.  It may not be amiss now for me to state, in
advance, somewhat in more detail, my views as to the mode of reduction.  The extent of the
reduction is fully stated in the report, and we are thus relieved from that portion of the task.

"I notice by the report that you have an exceptionally large proportion of experienced officers
still in the service.  You will have no difficulty in selecting, from these, the more efficient
and trustworthy to fill the more important positions, and when these are carefully selected,
you will have secured for the duties of greatest trust, active, efficient, and experienced
officers. It must happen that among those longest in service some are disabled by age and infirmity.
It is often the most painful, but necessary, duty, to dismiss there, or reduce them to positions
which they are still able to fill.  The government is fairly entitled to the services of those
who are fully able to discharge personally the duties of their office, and who are willing
to give their entire attention to their official duty.  If they cannot, or do not, do this,
it is no injustice to remove them.

"In the selection of inferior officers, the only rule should be the one daily acted upon by
merchants--to employ only those who are competent for the special work assigned them, whose
industry, integrity, and good habits give guarantees for faithful services, honestly rendered.
This reduction will enable you to transfer those now employed on work for which they are not
fitted, to other work for which they are competent, and to reward exceptional merit and ability
by promotion.

"It is impossible, in a force so large as yours, that you should know the peculiar qualities
and merits of each employee, and it is important, in making selections, that you secure this
information through committees of trusted officers, and in proper cases to test the intelligence,
ability, and qualifications of an officer or applicant for office by written questions or an
oral examination. In many cases the partiality and influence of relations secure several persons
of the same family in office, thus causing complaints and favoritism.  As a rule, it is best
in all cases to have but one of the same family under your jurisdiction, and no just complaint
can be made if this rule is impartially enforced.

"The President properly lays great stress on excluding from a purely business office active
participation in party politics.  Naturally, in a government like ours, other things being
equal, those will be preferred who sympathize with the party in power; but persons in office
ought not to be expected to serve their party to the neglect of official duty, or to promote
the interests of particular candidates, or to interfere with the free course of popular opinion,
or to run caucuses or conventions.  Such activity of office-holders is offensive to the great
mass of the people who hold no office, and gives rise to complaints and irritation.  If any
have been appointed for purely political reasons, without regard to their efficiency, now is
a good time to get rid of them.

"Where actual misconduct is proven, such as receiving gratuities or bribes, or oppression or
insolence in office, or even the want of common courtesy, or drunkenness or other bad habits
tending to degrade the officer, or absence from or neglect of duty--in all such cases I know
it will be your pleasure to dismiss the employee.

"The payment of taxes is not pleasant at best, but if rudely enforced by oppression or discreditable
officers, it renders the tax as well as the tax-collector odious.

"I do not fix any time within which this reduction must be made, but shall expect it to be
completed by the 30th day of June proximo. So far as the reduction is specifically made by
the adoption of the report, it should be made by the 1st day of June, and it should be made
as to each particular division or department of the customhouse as early as practicable.

"After all, the success of this movement for reform of old abuses, which existed for many years
before you became collector, will depend mainly upon your good sense and discretion.  I assure
you I will heartily sustain and approve any recommendation you may make that appears to me
to tend to make the New York customhouse--not only what it now is, the most important, but
what it ought to be-- the best managed business agency of the government.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary.
"C. A. Arthur, Esq., Collector of Customs, New York."

When the inquiry commenced there was no purpose or desire on the part of the President or anyone
to make a change in the officers of the New York customhouse.  This is apparent from my letter
to Collector Arthur.  The commission proceeded with their examination, and on the 2nd of July
made their second report.  This contained specific charges, but of a general character, against
persons employed in the customhouse.  They found that for many years past, the view had obtained
with some political leaders that the friends of the administration in power had a right to
control the customs appointments; and this view, which seemed to have been acquiesced in by
successive administrations, had of late been recognized to what the commission deemed an undue
extent by the chief officers of the service.  These gentlemen, on the ground that they were
compelled to surrender to personal and partisan dictation, appeared to have assumed that they
were relieved, in part, at least, from the responsibilities that belonged to the appointing power.

The collector of the port, in speaking of the "ten thousand applications," and remarking that
the urgency for appointments came from men all over the country, added, "the persons for whom
it is made bear their proportion of the responsibility for the character of the whole force."

The surveyor had said:

"I had, within the last two weeks, a letter, from a gentleman holding a high official position,
in regard to the appointment of an officer whom he knows had been dropped three times from
the service for cause.  He has also been to see me about him, and the last time he came he
admitted to me that he had been engaged in defrauding the revenue; and yet he writes me calling
my attention to the case, and requesting his appointment."

The collector, in his testimony before the commission, said that "the larger number of complaints
probably come from the surveyor of the port," and, on being asked their character, said:

"Some are for inefficiency, some are for neglect of duty, some for inebriety, and some for
improper conduct in various ways; some for want of integrity, and some for accepting bribes."

The commission further stated:

"The investigation showed that ignorance and incapacity on the part of the employees were not
confined to the surveyor's department, but were found in other branches of the service--creating
delays and mistakes, imperiling the safety of the revenues and the interests of importers,
and bringing the service into reproach.  It was intimated by chiefs of departments that men
were sent to them without brains enough to do the work, and that some of those appointed to
perform the delicate duties of the appraiser's office, requiring the special qualities of an
expert, were better fitted to hoe and to plow.  Some employees were incapacitated by age, some
by ignorance, some by carelessness and indifference; and parties thus unfitted have been appointed,
not to perform routine duties distinctly marked, but to exercise a discretion in questions
demanding intelligence and integrity, and involving a large amount of revenue.

"The evidence shows a degree and extent of carelessness which we think should not be permitted
to continue.  This point was illustrated to some degree by the testimony of the chiefs of the
appraiser's department, the important duties of which would certainly justify a reasonable
exactness.  The invoices, which are recorded in that office, and which are sent out to the
different divisions to be passed upon and then returned to the chief clerk, are found to exhibit,
on their return, errors on the part of the several divisions --according to one witness, nearly
eight hundred errors a month-- although the number by the appraiser was estimated at a lesser
figure.  A part of these errors may be assigned to a difference of opinion as to the classification
of the goods; but fully one-half are attributed to carelessness.  At the naval office it was
stated that the balance in favor of the government, of the many and large errors which they
discover in the customhouse accounts of the liquidation of vessels and statements of refund,
amounts to about a million and a half of dollars per annum."

The commission entered into a full statement and details as to irregularities, inefficiency
and neglect of duties in different departments of the customhouse, and recommended various
measures of reform, both in the laws regulating the customs service and its actual administration.
A copy of this report was immediately sent to Collector Arthur and Naval Officer Cornell, with
instructions to recommend to me the number of each grade for each branch of his office, with
various details designated by me, and to carry into execution the general recommendations of
the commission.  I added:

"You will please take your own way, by committee of your officers or otherwise, to fix the
number of each grade requisite to conduct the business of your office, and make report as early
as practicable."

The third report was made on the 21st of July, and related to the management of the department
of weighers and gaugers.

The fourth report, made on the 31st of August, related to the appraiser's office.  In acknowledging
the receipt of this report on the 12th of September, I stated:

"The recommendations made by you will be fully examined in detail, and be acted upon cotemporaneously
with the proposed change in the leading officers of that customhouse."

Two other reports were made, dated October 31 and November 1, 1877, the latter containing suggestions
as to the recommendations of legislative amendments to various existing laws and usages.

After the receipt of the report of August 31 the President, who had carefully read the several
reports, announced his desire to make a change in the three leading officers of the New York
customhouse.  He wished to place it upon the ground that he thought the public service would
be best promoted by a general change, that new officers would be more likely to make the radical
reforms required that those then in the customhouse.  The matter was submitted to the cabinet,
and I was requested to communicate with these officers, in the hope that they would resign
and relive the President from the unpleasant embarrassment of removing them.  On the 6th of
September I wrote to Richard C. McCormick, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, who was then
at his home near New York on account of illness, the following letter.  I knew that Mr. McCormick
was on friendly terms with Collector Arthur, and that he might better than I inform him of
the wish of the President to receive the resignations of himself, and Messrs. Cornell and Sharpe:

  "Treasury Department,                 }
  "Washington, D. C., September 6, 1877.}
"Dear Governor:--After a very full consideration, and a very kindly
one, the President, with the cordial assent of his cabinet, came
to the conclusion that the public interests demanded a change in
the three leading offices in New York, and a public announcement
of that character was authorized.  I am quite sure that this will,
on the whole, be considered to be a wise result.  The manner of
making the changes and the persons to be appointed will be a subject
of careful and full consideration, but it is better to know that
it is determined upon and ended.  This made it unnecessary to
consider the telegrams in regard to Mr. Cornell.  It is probable
that no special point would have been made upon his holding his
position as chairman of the state committee for a limited time,
but even that was not the thing, the real question being that,
whether he resigned or not, it was better that he and Arthur and
Sharpe should all give way to new men, to try definitely a new
policy in the conduct of the New York customhouse.

"I have no doubt, unless these gentlemen should make it impossible by their conduct hereafter,
that they will be treated with the utmost consideration, and, for one, I have no hesitation
in saying that I hope General Arthur will be recognized in a most complimentary way.

"Things are going on quietly here, but we miss you very much.  Hope you will have a pleasant
time and return to us in fresh health and vigor.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. R. C. McCormick."

On the next day I wrote him a supplementary letter:

  "Treasury Department,                 }
  "Washington, D. C., September 7, 1877.}
"Dear Governor:--Your note of yesterday is received.

"The action of the President on the New York customhouse cases turned upon the general question
of change there, and not upon Cornell's case.  It happened in this way:  General Sharpe, in
a very manly letter, withdrew his application for reappointment as surveyor of the port.  In
considering the question of successor the main point, as to whether the changes in the New
York customhouse rendered necessary a general change of the heads of the departments, was very
fully and very kindly considered, and, without any reference to Cornell's matter, until it
was thought, as a matter of public policy, it was best to make change in these heads, with
some details about it which I will communicate to you when you return.  When that was seen
to be the unanimous opinion, it was thought hardly worth while to single out Mr. Cornell's
case, and act upon it on the question that affected him alone.  If he was allowed to resign
from the committee, it would undoubtedly be upon an implied supposition that he would be continued
as naval officer.  I think even yet he ought to do as he proposed to Orton, but we could not
afford to have him do it with any such implied assent, and, therefore, it was deemed better
to make the formal announcement agreed upon. You know how carefully such things are considered,
and, after a night's reflection, I am satisfied of the wisdom of the conclusion.

"I want to see Arthur, and have requested him to come here.  You can say to him that, with
the kindest feelings, and, as he will understand when he sees me, with a proper appreciation
of his conduct during the examination by the commission, there should be no feeling about this
in New York.  At all events, what has been done is beyond recall.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. R. C. McCormick."

Mr. McCormick complied with my request, and orally reported his interview on his return to
Washington.  We were given to understand that these officers did not wish to be removed pending
the investigation, as it would seem that they were charged with the acknowledged defects and
irregularities which they themselves had pointed out.  The President was quite willing to base
his request for their resignation, not upon the ground that they were guilty of the offenses
charged, but that new officers could probably deal with the reorganization of the customhouse
with more freedom and success than the incumbents.  I also saw General Arthur, and explained
to him the view taken by the President and his desire not in any way to reflect upon the collector
and his associates, Cornell and Sharpe.  I believed that at the close of the investigation
by the commission these gentlemen would resign, and that their character and merits would be
recognized possibly by appointments to other offices.

Acting on this idea, on the 15th of October, I wrote the following letter to Arthur:

  "Washington, D. C., October 15, 1877.
"Dear Sir:--I regret to hear from Mr. Evarts that you decline the
consulship at Paris which I supposed would be very agreeable to you.

"As the time has arrived when your successor must be appointed, I submit to you whether, though
your resignation might be inferred from your letters on file, it would not be better for you
to tender it formally before your successor is appointed.

"The President desires to make this change in a way most agreeable to you, and it would be
most convenient to have it announced to- morrow.

"An early answer is requested.

  "Very truly, etc.,
  "John Sherman.
"General C. A. Arthur, Collector Customs, New York."

It soon became manifest that these gentlemen had no purpose to resign, and that Senator Conkling
intended to make a political contest against the policy of civil service reform inaugurated
by President Hayes.  On the 24th of October, 1877, the President sent to the Senate the nominations
of Theodore Roosevelt to succeed Arthur as collector, Edwin A. Merritt to succeed George H.
Sharpe as surveyor, and L. B. Prince to succeed A. B. Cornell as naval officer.  All of them
were rejected by the Senate on the 29th of October.  On the 6th day of December, during the
following session, Roosevelt, Prince and Merritt were again nominated, and the two former were
again rejected.  Merritt was confirmed as surveyor on the 16th of December.

This action of the Senate was indefensible.  There was not the slightest objection to Roosevelt
or Prince, and none was made. The reasons for a change were given in the report of the Jay
commission.  Even without this report the right of the President to appoint these officers
was given by the constitution.  To compel the President to retain anyone in such an office,
charged with the collection of the great body of the revenue from customs, in the face of such
reasons as were given for removal, was a gross breach of public duty.  No doubt the Democratic
majority in the Senate might defend themselves with political reasons, but the motive of Mr.
Conkling was hostility to President Hayes and his inborn desire to domineer.  The chief embarrassment
fell upon me.  I wished to execute the reforms needed in the collector's office, but could
only do it with his consent.  The co-operation required was not given, and the office was held
in profound contempt of the President. If the rejection of these nominations had been placed
upon the ground of unfitness, other names could have been sent to the Senate, but there was
no charge of that kind, while specific and definite charges were made against the incumbents.
Other names were mentioned to the President, and suggestions were made, among others by Whitelaw
Reid, whose letter I insert:

  "New York, March 29, 1878.
"My Dear Mr. Sherman:--Leaving Washington unexpectedly this morning,
I was unable to call again at the treasury department in accordance
with your polite invitation of last night.  I have, however, been
thinking over the customhouse problem of which you asked my opinion.
It seems to me, more and more clear, that, if a new appointment is
to be made, it should be controlled by two considerations:  First,
the appointee should be a man who can be confirmed; and, second,
he should be a man equal to all the practical duties of the place,
which are necessarily and essentially political as well as
mercantile.

"To nominate another man only to have him rejected would do great harm, and the confirmation
cannot, by any means, be taken for granted.  I believe it is possible to select some well-known
man, who has carefully studied the subject of revenue collection, and could bring to the task
executive skill, experience, and sound business and political sagacity, and that such a nomination
could be confirmed.  I assume, of course, that any movement of this sort would be based upon
the previous removal of the present incumbent, for good cause--of which I have been hearing
rumors for some time.

"Pray let me renew more formally the invitation to dine with me, on the evening of the 10th
of April, at seven o'clock, at the Union League Club, to meet Mr. Bayard Taylor just before
his departure for Berlin.  I sincerely hope you can arrange your movements after the Chester
visit so as to make it possible.

  "Very truly yours,
  "Whitelaw Reid.
"Hon. John Sherman, Secretary of the Treasury, Washington, D. C."

The President would not make other appointments during the session of the Senate, as the implication
would arise that the rejections were based upon opposition to the persons named, and he, therefore,
postponed any action until the close of the session.

After the close of the session, on the 11th of July, 1878, the President gave temporary commissions
to Edwin A. Merritt as collector to succeed C. A. Arthur, and Silas W. Burt to succeed Cornell
as naval officer, and these gentlemen entered upon the duties of their respective offices.

On the following December it became necessary to send their nominations to the Senate.  I had
definitely made up my mind that if the Senate again rejected them I would resign.  I would
not hold an office when my political friends forced me to act through unfriendly subordinates.
I wrote a letter to Senator Allison as follows:

  "Washington, D. C., January 31, 1879.
"My Dear Sir:--I would not bother you with this personal matter,
but that I feel the deepest interest in the confirmation of General
Merritt, which I know will be beneficial to us as a party, and
still more so to the public service.  Personally I have the deepest
interest in it because I have been unjustly assailed in regard to
it in the most offensive manner.  I feel free to appeal to you and
Windom, representing as you do western states, and being old friends
and acquaintances, to take into consideration this personal aspect
of the case.  If the restoration of Arthur is insisted upon, the
whole liberal element will be against us and it will lose us tens
of thousands of votes without doing a particle of good.  No man
could be a more earnest Republican than I, and I feel this political
loss as much as anyone can.  It will be a personal reproach to me,
and merely to gratify the insane hate of Conkling, who in this
respect disregards the express wishes of the Republican Members
from New York, of the great body of Republicans, and, as I personally
know, runs in antagonism to his nearest and best friends in the
Senate.

"Surely men like you and Windom, who have the courage of your convictions, should put a stop
to this foolish and unnecessary warfare.  Three or four men who will tell Conkling squarely
that, while you are his friends, you will not injure our party and our cause, would put a stop
to this business.  Arthur will not go back into the office.  This contest will be continued,
and the only result of all this foolish madness will be to compel a Republican administration
to appeal to a Democratic Senate for confirmation of a collector at New York.  It is a most
fatal mistake.

"I intended to call upon some of the Senators this morning, but I am very much pressed, and
will ask you to show this in confidence to Senator Windom, as I have not time to write him.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. W. B. Allison, U. S. Senate."

I wrote to Senator Justin S. Morrill a much longer letter, giving reasons in detail in favor
of confirmation and containing specific charges of neglect of duty on the part of Arthur and
Cornell, but I do not care to revive them.

Conkling was confident of defeating the confirmations, and thus restoring Arthur and Cornell.
The matter was decided, after a struggle of seven hours in the Senate, by the decisive vote
in favor of confirmation of Merritt 33, and against him 24, in favor of Burt 31, against 19.
From this time forward there was but slight opposition to the confirmation of Hayes' appointments.
The reforms proposed in the customhouse at New York were carried out.

This termination of the controversy with Arthur and Cornell was supported by public opinion
generally throughout the United States. I insert a letter from John Jay upon the subject.

  "N. Y. C. H., 24 Washington Square,}
  "New York, February 3, 1879.       }
"The Honorable John Sherman.

"My Dear Sir:--Allow me to thank you for the two papers you have kindly sent me, in reference
to the customhouse, the last of which, the firm message of the President with your second conclusive
letter, reached me to-day.

"Whatever may be the result in the Senate, and I can scarcely believe that, after so full an
exposure, the nomination will be rejected, the plain-thinking people of this country will appreciate
the attitude taken by the government as the only one consistent with the duty of the executive
and the general welfare.

"It will give new hope and confidence to the great body of Republicans, and to many who can
hardly be called Republicans, who look to the administration for an unflinching adherence--no
matter what the opposition--to the pledge of reform on which the party was successful in the
last election, and on fidelity to which depends its safety in the next.

"The country is infinitely indebted to you for redeeming its faith by a return to honest money.
A new debt will be incurred of yet wider scope if you succeed in liberating the custom service
from the vicious grip of the immoral factions of office holders and their retainers, who have
made it a scandal to the nation with such gigantic loss to the treasury and immeasurable damage
to our commerce, industry and morals.

"I hope that the President will feel that all good citizens who are not blinded by prejudice
or interest are thoroughly with him in the policy and resolve of his message that the customhouse
shall no longer be 'a center of partisan political management.'

"With great regard I have the honor to be, dear Mr. Sherman,

  "Faithfully yours,
  "John Jay."

The annual report made by me to Congress on the 2nd of December, 1878, contained the usual
formal information as to the condition of the treasury, and the various bureaus and divisions
of that department.  It was regarded as a fair statement of public affairs at a time of unusual
prosperity.  The revenue in excess of expenditures during the year amounted to $20,799,551.90.

The statement made by me in this report, in respect to the resumption of specie payments on
the 1st day of January, 1879, is so closely a narrative of what did happen before and after
that date that I deem it best to quote the language of the report.  I then said:

"The important duty imposed on this department by the resumption act, approved January 14,
1875, has been steadily pursued during the past year.  The plain purpose of the act is to secure
to all interests and all classes the benefits of a sound currency, redeemable in coin, with
the least possible disturbance of existing rights and contracts.  Three of its provisions have
been substantially carried into execution by the gradual substitution of fractional coin for
fractional currency, by the free coinage of gold, and by free banking.  There remains only
the completion of preparations for resumption in coin on the 1st day of January, 1879, and
its maintenance thereafter upon the basis of existing law.

"At the date of my annual report to Congress in December, 1877, it was deemed necessary, as
a preparation for resumption, to accumulate in the treasury a coin reserve of at least forty
per cent. of the amount of United States notes then outstanding.  At that time it was anticipated
that under the provisions of the resumption act the volume of United States notes would be
reduced to $300,000,000 by the 1st day of January, 1879, or soon thereafter, and that a reserve
in coin of $120,000,000 would then be sufficient.  Congress, however, in view of the strong
popular feeling against a contraction of the currency, by the act approved May 31, 1878, forbade
the retirement of any United States notes after that date, leaving the amount in circulation
$346,681,016.  Upon the principle of safety upon which the department was acting, that forty
per cent. of coin was the smallest reserve upon which resumption could prudently be commenced,
it became necessary to increase the coin reserve to $138,000,000.

"At the close of the year 1877 this coin reserve, in excess of coin liability, amounted to
$63,016,050.96, of which $15,000,000 were obtained by the sale of four and a half per cent.,
and $25,000,000 by the sale of four per cent. bonds, the residue being surplus revenue.  Subsequently,
on the 11th day of April, 1878, the secretary entered into a contract with certain bankers
in New York and London --the parties to the previous contract of June 9, 1877, already communicated
to Congress--for the sale of $50,000,000 four and a half per cent. bonds for resumption purposes.
The bonds were sold at a premium of one and a half per cent. and accrued interest, less a commission
of one-half of one per cent.  The contract has been fulfilled, and the net proceeds, $50,500,000,
have been paid into the treasury in gold coin.  The $5,500,000 coin paid on the Halifax award
have been replaced by the sale of that amount of four per cent. bonds sold for resumption purposes,
making the aggregate amount of bonds sold for these purposes, $95,500,000, of which $65,000,000
were four and a half per cent. bonds, and $30,500,000 four per cent. bonds.  To this has been
added the surplus revenue from time to time.  The amount of coin held in the treasury on the
23rd day of November last, in excess of coin sufficient to pay all accrued coin liabilities,
was $141,888,100, and constitutes the coin reserve prepared for resumption purposes.  This
sum will be diminished somewhat on the 1st of January next, by reason of the large amount of
interest accruing on that day in excess of the coin revenue received meanwhile.

"In anticipation of resumption, and in view of the fact that the redemption of United States
notes is mandatory only at the office of the assistant treasurer in the city of New York, it
was deemed important to secure the co-operation of the associated banks of that city in the
ready collection of drafts on those banks and in the payment of treasury drafts held by them.
A satisfactory arrangement has been made by which all drafts on the banks held by the treasury
are to be paid at the clearing house, and all drafts on the treasury held by them are to be
paid to the clearing house at the office of the assistant treasurer, in United States notes;
and, after the 1st of January, United States notes are to be received by them as coin.  This
will greatly lessen the risk and labor of collections both to the treasury and the banks.

"Every step in these preparations for resumption has been accompanied with increased business
and confidence.  The accumulation of coin, instead of increasing its price, as was feared by
many, has steadily reduced its premium on the market.  The depressing and ruinous losses that
followed the panic of 1873 had not diminished in 1875, when the resumption act passed; but
every measure taken in the execution or enforcement of this act has tended to lighten these
losses and to reduce the premium on coin, so that now it is merely nominal.  The present condition
of our trade, industry, and commerce, hereafter more fully stated, our ample reserves, and
the general confidence inspired in our financial condition, seem to justify the opinion that
we are prepared to commence and maintain resumption from and after the 1st day of January,
A. D. 1879.

"The means and manner of doing this are left largely to the discretion of the secretary, but,
from the nature of the duty imposed, he must restore coin and bullion, when withdrawn in the
process of redemption, either by the sale of bonds, or the use of the surplus revenue, or of
the notes redeemed from time to time.

"The power to sell any of the bonds described in the refunding act continues after as well
as before resumption.  Thought it may not be often used, it is essential to enable this department
to meet emergencies.  By its exercise it is anticipated that the treasury at any time can readily
obtain coin to reinforce the reserve already accumulated.  United States notes must, however,
be the chief means under existing law with which the department must restore coin and bullion
when withdrawn in process of redemption.  The notes, when redeemed, must necessarily accumulate
in the treasury until their superior use and convenience for circulation enables the department
to exchange them at par for coin or bullion.

"The power to reissue United States notes was conferred by section 3579, Revised Statutes,
and was not limited by the resumption act. As this, however, was questioned, Congress wisely
removed the doubt.

"Notes redeemed are like other notes received into the treasury. Payments of them can be made
only in consequence of appropriations made by law, or for the purchase of bullion, or for the
refunding of the public debt.

"The current receipts from revenue are sufficient to meet the current expenditures as well
as the accruing interest on the public debt.  Authority is conferred by the refunding act to
redeem six per cent. bonds as they become redeemable, by the proceeds of the sale of bonds
bearing a lower rate of interest.  The United States notes redeemed under the resumption act
are, therefore, the principal means provided for the purchase of bullion or coin with which
to maintain resumption, but should only be paid out when they can be used to replace an equal
amount of coin withdrawn from the resumption fund.  They may, it is true, be used for current
purposes like other money, but when so used their place is filled by money received from taxes
or other sources of income.

"In daily business no distinction need be made between moneys, from whatever source received,
but they may properly be applied to any of the purposes authorized by law.  No doubt coin liabilities,
such as interest or principal of the public debt, will be ordinarily paid and willingly received
in United States notes, but, when demanded, such payments will be made in coin; and United
States notes and coin will be used in the purchase of bullion.  This method has already been
adopted in Colorado and North Carolina, and arrangements are being perfected to purchase bullion
in this way in all the mining regions of the United States.

"By the act approved June 8, 1878, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to constitute
any superintendent of a mint, or assayer of any assay office, an assistant treasurer of the
United States, to receive gold coin or bullion on deposit.  By the legislative appropriation
bill, approved June 19, 1878, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to issue coin certificates
in payment to depositors of bullion at the several mints and assay offices of the United States.
These provisions, intended to secure to the producers of bullion more speedy payment, will
necessarily bring into the mints and treasury the great body of the precious metals mined in
the United States, and will tend greatly to the easy and steady supply of bullion for coinage.
United States notes, at par with coin, will be readily received for bullion instead of coin
certificates, and with great advantage and convenience to the producers.

"Deposits of coin in the treasury will, no doubt, continue to be made after the 1st of January,
as heretofore.  Both gold and silver coin, from its weight and bulk, will naturally seek a
safe deposit, while notes redeemable in coin, from their superior convenience, will be circulated
instead.  After resumption the distinction between coin and United States notes should be,
as far as practicable, abandoned in the current affairs of the government; and therefore no
coin certificates should be issued except where expressly required by the provisions of law,
as in the case of silver certificates. The gold certificates hitherto issued by virtue of the
discretion conferred upon the secretary will not be issued after the 1st of January next. 
The necessity for them during a suspension of specie payments is obvious, but no longer exists
when by law every United States note is, in effect, a coin certificate.  The only purpose that
could be subserved by their issue hereafter would be to enable persons to convert their notes
into coin certificates, and thus contract the currency and hoard gold in the vaults of the
treasury without the inconvenience or risk of its custody.  For convenience, United States
notes of the same denomination as the larger coin certificates will be issued.

"By existing law, customs duties and the interest of the public debt are payable in coin, and
a portion of the duties was specifically pledged as a special fund for the payment of the interest,
thus making one provision dependent upon the other.  As we cannot, with due regard to the public
honor, repeal the obligation to pay in coin, we ought not to impair or repeal the means provided
to procure coin.  When, happily, our notes are equal to coin, they will be accepted as coin,
both by the public creditor and by the government; but this acceptance should be left to the
option of the respective parties, and the legal right on both sides to demand coin should be
preserved inviolate.

"The secretary is of the opinion that a change of the law is not necessary to authorize this
department to receive United States notes for customs duties on and after the 1st day of January,
1879, while they are redeemable and are redeemed on demand in coin. After resumption it would
seem a useless inconvenience to require payment of such duties in coin rather than in United
States notes. The resumption act, by clear implication, so far modifies previous laws as to
permit payments in United States notes as well as in coin.  The provision for coin payments
was made in the midst of war, when the notes were depreciated and the public necessities required
an assured revenue in coin to support the public credit. This alone justified the refusal by
the government to take its own notes for the taxes levied by it.  It has now definitely assumed
to pay these notes in coin, and this necessarily implies the receipt of these notes as coin.
To refuse them is only to invite their presentation for coin.  Any other construction would
require the notes to be presented to the assistant treasurer in New York for coin, and, if
used in the purchase of bonds, to be returned to the same officer, or, if used for the payment
of customs duties, to be carried to the collector of customs, who must daily deposit in the
treasury all money received by him.  It is not to be assumed that the law requires this indirect
and inconvenient process after the notes are redeemable in coin on demand of the holder.  They
are then at a parity with coin, and both should be received indiscriminately.

"If United States notes are received for duties at the port of New York, they should be received
for the same purpose in all other ports of the United States, or an unconstitutional preference
would be given to that port over other ports.  If this privilege is denied to the citizens
of other ports, they could make such use of these notes only by transporting them to New York
and transporting the coin to their homes for payment; and all this not only without benefit
to the government, but with a loss in returning the coin again to New York, where it is required
for redemption purposes.

"The provision in the law for redemption in New York was believed to be practical redemption
in all parts of the United States. Actual redemption was confined to a single place from the
necessity of maintaining only one coin reserve and where the coin could be easily accumulated
and kept.

"With this view of the resumption act, the secretary will feel it to be his duty, unless Congress
otherwise provides, to direct that after the 1st day of January next, and while United States
notes are redeemed at the treasury, they be received the same as coin by the officers of this
department, in all payments in all parts of the United States.

"If any further provision of law is deemed necessary by Congress to authorize the receipt of
United States notes for customs dues or for bonds, the secretary respectfully submits that
this authority should continue only while the notes are redeemed in coin.  However desirable
continuous resumption may be, and however confident we may feel in its maintenance, yet the
experience of many nations has proven that it may be impossible in periods of great emergency.
In such events the public faith demands that the customs duties shall be collected in coin
and paid to the public creditors, and this pledge should never be violated or our ability to
perform it endangered.

"Heretofore, the treasury, in the disbursement of currency, has paid out bills of any denomination
desired.  In this way the number of bills of a less denomination than five dollars is determined
by the demand for them.  Such would appear to be the true policy after the 1st of January.
It has been urged that, with a view to place in circulation silver coins, no bills of less
than five dollars should be issued.  It would seem to be more just and expedient not to force
any form of money upon a public creditor, but to give him the option of the kind and denomination.
The convenience of the public, in this respect, should be consulted.  The only way by which
moneys of different kinds and intrinsic values can be maintained in circulation at par with
each other is by the ability, when one kind is in excess, to readily exchange it for the other.
This principle is applicable to coin as well as to paper money.  In this way the largest amount
of money of different kinds can be maintained at par, the different purposes for which each
is issued making a demand for it.  The refusal or neglect to maintain this species of redemption
inevitably effects the exclusion from circulation of the most valuable, which, thereafter,
becomes a commodity, bought and sold at a premium. . . .

"When the resumption act passed, gold was the only coin which by law was a legal tender in
payment of all debts.  That act contemplated resumption in gold coin only.  No silver coin
of full legal tender could then be lawfully issued.  The only silver coin provided was fractional
coin, which was a legal tender for five dollars only. The act approved February 28, 1878, made
a very important change in our coinage system.  The silver dollar provided for was made a legal
tender for all debts, public and private, except where otherwise expressly stipulated in the
contract.

"The law itself clearly shows that the silver dollar was not to supersede the gold dollar;
nor did Congress propose to adopt the single standard of silver, but only to create a bimetallic
standard of silver and gold, of equal value and equal purchasing power. Congress, therefore,
limited the amount of silver dollars to be coined to not less than two millions nor more than
four millions per month, but did not limit the aggregate amount nor the period of time during
which this coinage should continue.  The market value of the silver in the dollar, at the date
of the passage of the act, was 93¼ cents in gold coin.  Now it is about 86 cents in gold coin.
If it was intended by Congress to adopt the silver instead of the gold standard, the amount
provided for is totally inadequate for the purpose.  Experience not only in this country, but
in European countries, has established that a certain amount of silver coin may be maintained
in circulation at par with gold, though of less intrinsic bullion value.  It was, no doubt,
the intention of Congress to provide a coin in silver which would answer a multitude of the
purposes of business life, without banishing from circulation the established gold coin of
the country.  To accomplish this it is indispensable either that the silver coin be limited
in amount, or that its bullion value be equal to that of the gold dollar.  If not, it use will
be limited to domestic purposes.  It cannot be exported except at its commercial value as bullion.
If issued in excess of demands for domestic purposes, it will necessarily fall in market value,
and, by a well-known principle of finance, will become the sole coin standard of value.  Gold
will be either hoarded or exported.  When two currencies, both legal, are authorized without
limit, the cheaper alone will circulate. If, however, the issue of the silver dollars is limited
to an amount demanded for circulation, there will be no depreciation, and their convenient
use will keep them at par with gold, as fractional silver coin, issued under the act approved
February 21, 1853, was kept at par with gold.

"The amount of such coin that can thus be maintained at par with gold cannot be fairly tested
until resumption is accomplished.  As yet paper money has been depreciated, and silver dollars,
being receivable for customs dues, have naturally not entered into general circulation, but
have returned to the treasury in payment of such dues, and thus the only effect of the attempt
of the department to circulate them has been to diminish the gold revenue.  After resumption
these coins will circulate in considerable sums for small payments.  To the extent that such
demand will give employment to silver dollars their use will be an aid to resumption rather
than a hindrance, but, if issued in excess of such demand, they will at once tend to displace
gold and become the sole standard, and gradually, as they increase in number, will fall to
their value as bullion.  Even the fear or suspicion of such an excess tends to banish gold,
and, if well established, will cause a continuous drain of gold until imperative necessity
will compel resumption in silver alone.  The serious effect of such a radical change in our
standards of value cannot be exaggerated; and its possibility will greatly disturb confidence
in resumption, and may make necessary large reserves and further sales of bonds.

"The secretary, therefore, earnestly invokes the attention of Congress to this subject, with
a view that either during the present or the next session the amount of silver dollars to be
issued be limited, or their ratio to gold for coining purposes be changed.

"Gold and silver have varied in value from time to time in the history of nations, and laws
have been passed to meet this changing value.  In our country, by the act of April 2, 1792,
the ratio between them was fixed at one of gold to fifteen of silver.  By the act of June 28,
1834, the ratio was changed to one of gold to sixteen of silver.  For more than a century the
market value of the two metals had varied between these two ratios, mainly resting at that
fixed by the Latin nations of one to fifteen and a half.

"But we cannot overlook the fact that within a few years, from causes frequently discussed
in Congress, a great change has occurred in the relative value of the two metals.  It would
seem to be expedient to recognize this controlling fact--one that no nation alone can change--by
a careful readjustment of the legal ratio for coinage of one to sixteen, so as to conform to
the relative market values of the two metals.  The ratios heretofore fixed were always made
with that view, and, when made, did conform as near as might be.  Now, that the production
and use of the two metals have greatly changed in relative value, a corresponding change must
be made in the coinage ratio.  There is no peculiar force or sanction in the present ratio
that should make us hesitate to adopt another, when, in the markets of the world, it is proven
that such ratio is not now the true one.  The addition of one-tenth or one-eighth to the thickness
of the silver dollar would scarcely be perceived as an inconvenience by the holder, but would
inspire confidence, and add greatly to its circulation.  As prices are now based on United
States notes at par with gold, no disturbance of values would result from the change.

"It appears, from the recent conference at Paris, invited by us, that other nations will not
join with us in fixing an international ratio, and that each county must adapt its laws to
its own policy. The tendency of late among commercial nations is to the adoption of a single
standard of gold and the issue of silver for fractional coin.  We may, by ignoring this tendency,
give temporarily increased value to the stores of silver held in Germany and France, until
our market absorbs them, but, by adopting a silver standard as nearly equal to gold as practicable,
we make a market for our large production of silver, and furnish a full, honest dollar that
will be hoarded, transported, or circulated, without disparagement or reproach.

"It is respectfully submitted that the United States, already so largely interested in trade
with all parts of the world, and becoming, by its population, wealth, commerce, and productions,
a leading member of the family of nations, should not adopt a standard of less intrinsic value
than other commercial nations.  Alike interested in silver and gold, as the great producing
country of both, it should coin them at such a ratio and on such conditions as will secure
the largest use and circulation of both metals without displacing either.  Gold must necessarily
be the standard of value in great transactions, from its greater relative value, but it is
not capable of the division required for small transactions; while silver is indispensable
for a multitude of daily wants, and is too bulky for use in the larger transactions of business,
and the cost of its transportation for long distances would greatly increase the present rates
of exchange.  It would, therefore, seem to be the best policy for the present to limit the
aggregate issue of our silver dollars, based on the ratio of sixteen to one, to such sums as
can clearly be maintained at par with gold, until the price of silver in the market shall assume
a definite ratio to gold, when that ratio should be adopted, and our coins made to conform
to it; and the secretary respectfully recommends that he be authorized to discontinue the coinage
of the silver dollar when the amount outstanding shall exceed fifty million dollars.

"It is his duty, as an executive officer, to frankly state his opinions, so that if he is in
error Congress may prescribe such a policy as is best for the public interests.  Six per cent.
bonds, commonly known as 5-20's, to an equal amount, have been redeemed, or will be redeemed
as calls mature.  This beneficial process was greatly retarded by the requirement of the law
that subscriptions must be paid in coin, the inconvenience of obtaining which, to the great
body of people outside of the large cities, deterred many sales.  This will not affect sales
after resumption, when bonds can be paid for with United States notes.  The large absorption
of United States securities in the American market, by reason of their return from Europe,
together with the sale of four and a half per cent. bonds for resumption purposes, tended to
retard the sale of four per cent. bonds.  As, from the best advices, not more than $200,000,000
of United States bonds are now held out of the country, it may be fairly anticipated that the
sale of four per cent. bonds, hereafter, will largely increase.

"Prior to May, 1877, United States bonds were mainly sold through an association of bankers.
Experience proves that under the present plan of selling to all subscribers on terms fixed
by public advertisement, though the aggregate of sales may be less, their distribution is more
satisfactory.  Under a popular loan the interest is paid at home, and the investment is available
at all times, without loss, to meet the needs of the holder.  This policy has been carefully
fostered by other nations, and should be specially so in ours, where every citizen equally
participates in the government of his country.  The holding of these bonds at home, in small
sums well distributed, is of great importance in enlisting popular interest in our national
credit and in encouraging habits of thrift, and such holding in the country is far more stable
and less likely to disturb the market than it would be in cities or by corporations, where
the bonds can be promptly sold in quantities.

"The three months' public notes required by the fourth section of the refunding act, to be
given to holders of the 5-20 bonds to be redeemed, necessarily involve a loss to the government
by the payment of double interest during that time.  The notice should not be given until subscriptions
are made or are reasonably certain to be made.  When they are made and the money is paid into
the treasury, whether it is kept there idle during the three months or deposited with national
banks under existing law, the government not only pays interest on both classes of bonds during
the ninety days, but, if the sales are large, the hoarding of large sums may disturb the market.
Under existing law this is unavoidable; and, to mitigate it, the secretary deemed it expedient
during the last summer to make calls in anticipation of subscriptions, but this, though legal,
might, in case of failure of subscriptions, embarrass the government in paying called bonds.
The long notice required by law is not necessary in the interest of the holder of the bonds,
for, as the calls are made by public notice and the bonds are indicated and specified by class,
date, and number, in the order of their numbers and issue, he, by ordinary diligence, can know
beforehand when his bonds in due course will probably be called, and will not be taken by surprise.

"The secretary therefore recommends that the notice to be given for called bonds be, at his
discretion, not less than ten days nor more than three months.  In this way he will be able
largely to avoid the payment of double interest, as well as the temporary contraction of the
currency, and may fix the maturity of the call at a time when the interest of the called bonds
becomes due and payable."

Soon after the passage of the act authorizing the coinage of the standard silver dollar, and
an attempt being made to procure the requisite bullion for its coinage to some extent at the
mints on the Pacific coast, it was found that the producers and dealers there would not sell
silver to the government at the equivalent of the London rate, but demanded in addition thereto
an amount equal to the cost of bringing it from London and laying it down in San Francisco.
These terms, being deemed exorbitant, were rejected, and arrangements were immediately made
to bring the capacity of the mint at Philadelphia to its maximum, with a view to meet the provisions
of law, which required two millions of silver dollars to be coined in each month, and the available
supplies of silver from domestic sources being entirely insufficient for the coinage of this
amount, the foreign market was indirectly resorted to and an amount sufficient to meet the
requirements of law secured.

In July, 1878, the principal holders of bullion on the Pacific coast receded from their position
and accepted the equivalent of the London rate, at which price sufficient bullion was purchased
to employ the mints of San Francisco and Carson on the coinage of the dollar.

At the date of my report, United States notes were practically at par with gold.  The public
mind had settled into a conviction that the parity of coin and currency was assured, and our
people, accustomed to the convenience of paper money, would not willingly have received coin
to any considerable amount in any business transactions.  The minor coins of silver, were received
and paid out without question at parity with gold coin, because the amount was limited and
they were coined by the government only as demanded for the public convenience.  The silver
dollar was too weighty and cumbersome and when offered in considerable sums was objected to,
though a legal tender for any sum, and coined only in limited amounts for government account.
Every effort was made by the treasury department to give it the largest circulation, but the
highest amount that could be circulated was from fifty to sixty millions, and much of this
was in the southern states.  All sums in excess of that were returned to the treasury for silver
certificates.  These were circulated as money, like United States notes and bank bills.  This
was only possible by the guarantee of the government that all forms of money would be maintained
at parity with each other.  If this guarantee had been doubted, or if the holder of silver
bullion could have had it coined at his pleasure and for his benefit at the ratio of sixteen
to one, the silver dollar would, as the cheaper coin, have excluded all other forms of money,
and the purchasing power of silver coin would have been reduced to the market value of silver
bullion.

On the 3rd of December, 1878, I wrote the following letter:

"Hon. Thomas Hillhouse,

  "United States Assistant Treasurer, New York.
"Sir:--I have this day telegraphed you as follows:

'After receipt of this you will please issue no more gold certificates.'

"In compliance with the above instructions you will not, until further advised, issue gold
certificates either in payment of interest on the public debt or for gold coin deposited.

"It is desired that you issue currency in payment of coin obligations to such an amount as
will be accepted by public creditors.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

After resumption, United States notes were in fact gold certificates, being redeemable in coin.
On the 4th, I again wrote to General Hillhouse as follows:

"Your letter of yesterday is received.  The necessity of the recent order about coin certificates
became apparent to the department, and the only doubt was as to the date of issuing it.  After
full consideration, it was deemed best to make it immediate, so that no more certificates could
be asked for.  By the 21st of this month the large denominations of greenbacks will be ready
for issue to you, and after the 1st of January they will be received for customs duties and
paid out for gold coin deposited with you.  I am led to suppose that considerable sums of gold
coin will be deposited with you soon after that date.  It is important that the business men
of New York should see the propriety of such a course, with a view to aid in popular opinion
the process of resumption.

"I would be pleased to hear from you as to whether any additional force in your office will
be necessary in view of resumption. Every reasonable facility should be given to persons who
apply for coin, and we should be prepared for a considerable demand during the first month.

"I will be in New York some time this month, and will confer with you as to any matters of detail."

I received the following reply:

  "Office of United States Assistant Treasurer,}
  "New York, December 5, 1878.                 }
"Sir:--I have received your letter of the 4th instant.  The issue
of gold certificates, however convenient to the public, had long
ceased to be of any advantage to the government, and in view of
resumption it had become a positive injury, by enabling speculators
to carry on their operations without the risk and expense of handling
the actual coin.  So far as I have discovered, the banks and the
business community generally regard the withdrawal of the certificates
as a wise measure.  They may be put to some temporary inconvenience
thereby, but they cannot fail to see that, in the use of this and
all other legitimate means of making the great scheme of resumption
a success, the secretary is really promoting their interests, and
that in the end they will be greatly benefitted by the establishing
of a sound and stable currency, which is the object in view.

* * * * *

  "Very respectfully,
  "Thomas Hillhouse,
  "Assistant Treasurer United States."

On the 5th I wrote him as follows:

"In reply to your letter of the 4th instant, inquiring whether you are at liberty to pay out
the standard silver dollars in exchange for gold coin, you are authorized to pay out the standard
silver dollars to any amount which may be desired in exchange for gold coin.

* * * * *

"In reply to your letter of yesterday, I have to advise you that it was the purpose of the
order referred to to prohibit the issue of gold coin certificates for any purpose, including
the redemption of called bonds.  It is believed that the reasons for issuing such certificates
have ceased to exist, and that those outstanding should be redeemed and not reissued.

"No public end is subserved by receiving coin deposits for private parties to be held for their
benefit, but gold will be received in exchange for United States notes of any denomination
desired, and such exchange is invited."

On the 18th I wrote him:

"I have concluded to direct the prepayment of the coupons maturing January 1, in coin or United
States notes, as desired by the holder, and interest on registered stock, as soon as you can
receive the schedules, which will be about the 28th.  While I wish no hesitation about paying
gold to anyone desiring it, it is better to get people in the habit of receiving currency rather
than coin."

On the 18th General Hillhouse wrote me:

"Since my letter of yesterday gold has sold at par, the prevailing rate being one sixty-fourth
to three sixty-fourth premium.  The indications now are that the combinations which were presumed
to be operating to keep up the premium have failed so far in their object, and that, unless
unlooked for circumstances should intervene, the premium will be more likely to fall below
the present rate than to advance."

"Similar instructions have this day been sent to the several independent treasury officers.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

On the 28th I wrote the First National Bank of New York:

"Your letter of yesterday is received.  I do not see my way clear to issue another call until
the one now outstanding is covered by subscription.  There is still a deficit of about $4,000,000
on the 71st call.  There is not, however, the slightest objection to your stating authoritatively,
or, if desired, I will do so in response to a direct inquiry, that every dollar of the proceeds
of four per cent. bonds sold during the present year had been applied on calls for refunding,
and it is my purpose to continue this unless I give public notice to the contrary.

"I feel the more inclined to refuse to make a call by reason of the probable requisition that
may be made for the Halifax award, and I do not wish by any chance to impair the resumption fund."

During the latter part of December the air was full of rumors of a combination in New York
for a run upon the sub-treasury on the opening of the new year.  The alarm was so great that
the president of the National Bank of Commerce in that city, who was also chairman of the clearing
house committee, at three o'clock p. m. on the 30th, with the advice of other bankers, sent
me, by special messenger, an urgent request for the transfer to his bank, on the following
day, from the sub-treasury, of $5,000,000 in gold, in exchange for a like amount in United
States notes, to enable the banks, he said, to meet a "corner" in gold.  To this there could
be but one reply. The treasury had no power to make the transfer, even if it desired to do
so.  I therefore declined the proposition, and did not believe in a "corner."

During the exciting events connected with resumption and refunding I did not overlook the political
condition in Ohio, and wrote a letter in regard to it, which I think proper here to insert,
as it presents my view at its date:

  "December 26, 1878.
"My Dear Sir:--Much obliged for your kind letter of the 21st.

"My official duties engross my time so much that I scarcely catch a glimpse of home affairs
by reading the newspapers, and your intelligent view is therefore the more interesting.  It
seems to me that the nomination of General Garfield for governor and Foster for lieutenant
governor would be a very excellent arrangement, but I understand that it is not agreeable to
them.  Garfield has no desire for the position, while Foster feels that he ought to head the
ticket.  An understanding that Garfield is to be Senator might embarrass us in certain doubtful
districts, where the chief contest would be upon that office.  Still such a ticket would be
universally conceded to be very strong and would inspire confidence, and would be entirely
satisfactory to me.  Indeed, I wish to be in a condition to support our political friends in
anything they may do in the convention, without taking an active part in it.

"The contingency that you refer to with which my name is connected is still to remote to talk
about.  I never supposed that a person occupying my office, open to attack and compelled to
say no to so many persons, could be sufficiently popular to justify any party in running him
for the presidency, and, therefore, I have always dismissed such suggestions as the kindly
compliments of the hour. Certainly it has not gained my mental consent, nor is it considered
by me as one of the probabilities of the future.  If I should get the maggot in my brain it
would no doubt be more likely to hurt than help.

"The tendency of public opinion is evidently towards General Grant, whose absence and good
conduct are in his favor, while the involuntary feeling of Republicans would be in favor of
nominating him as a remonstrance against the violence in the south, and notice that it must end.

"However, a year hence will be time enough to settle this matter.

"I send my hearty greetings for the holiday season, and remain,

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. Richard Smith, Cincinnati, O."

About this time I received the following letter:

  "United States Legation,   }
  "Mexico, December 15, 1878.}
"Hon. John Sherman, Washington, D. C.

"My Dear Sir:--Allow me to send you, as a New Years' greeting, my hearty congratulations on
your successful management of our national finances and on the resumption of specie payments,
which I have no doubt will be an accomplished fact when this letter reaches you.

"The nation owes you a great debt for your courage, persistence and wisdom in adhering to your
policy for re-establishing and maintaining our government credit.  To your conduct I attribute
the present honorable position of the Republican party, more than to any other one influence.
I believe that neither the country nor the party will forget your services.

  "Very truly,
  "John W. Foster."

On the 1st of January, 1879, when the resumption act went into effect, the aggregate amount
of gold coin and bullion in the treasury exceeded $140,000,000.  United States notes, when
presented, were redeemed with gold coin, but instead of the notes being presented for redemption,
gold coin in exchange for them was deposited, thus increasing the gold in the treasury.

The resumption of specie payments was generally accepted as a fortunate event by the great
body of people of the United States, but there was a great diversity of opinion as to what
was meant by resumption.  The commercial and banking classes generally treated resumption as
if it involved the payment and cancellation of United States notes and all forms of government
money except coin and bank notes.  Another class was opposed to resumption, and favored a large
issue of paper money without any promise or expectation of redemption in coin.  The body of
the people, I believe, agreed with me in opinion that resumption meant, not the cancellation
and withdrawal of greenbacks, but the bringing them up to par and maintaining them as the equivalent
of coin by the payment of them in coin on demand by the holder.  This was my definition of
resumption.  I do not believe that any commercial nation can conduct modern operations of business
upon the basis of coin alone.  Prior to our Civil War the United States undertook to collect
its taxes in specie and to pay specie for its obligations; this was the bullion theory.  This
narrow view of money compelled the states to supply paper currency, and this led to a great
diversity of money, depending upon the credit, the habits and the wants of the people of the
different states.  The United States notes, commonly called greenbacks, were the creature of
necessity, but proved a great blessing, and only needed one attribute to make them the best
substitute for coin money that has ever been devised.  That quality was supplied by their redemption
in coin, when demanded by the holder.

The feeling in the treasury department on the day of resumption is thus described by J. K.
Upton, assistant secretary, in an article written at the close of 1892:

"The year, however, closed with no unpleasant excitement, but with unpleasant forebodings.
The 1st day of January was Sunday and no business was transacted.  On Monday anxiety reigned
in the office of the secretary.  Hour after hour passed; no news came from New York.  Inquiry
by wire showed all was quiet.  At the close of business came this message:  '$135,000 of notes
presented for coin --$400,000 of gold for notes.'  That was all.  Resumption was accomplished
with no disturbance.  By five o'clock the news was all over the land, and the New York bankers
were sipping their tea in absolute safety.

"Thirteen years have since passed, and the redemption fund still remains intact in the sub-treasury
vaults.  The prediction of the secretary has become history.  When gold could with certainty
be obtained for notes, nobody wanted it.  The experiment of maintaining a limited amount of
United States notes in circulation, based upon a reasonable reserve in the treasury pledged
for that purpose, and supported also by the credit of the government, has proved generally
satisfactory, and the exclusive use of these notes for circulation may become, in time, the
fixed financial policy of the government."

The immediate effect of resumption of specie payments was to advance the public credit, which
made it possible to rapidly fund all the bonds of the United States then redeemable into bonds
bearing four per cent. interest.  Early in January, 1879, I issued a circular offering the
four per cent. funded loan of the United States at par and accrued interest to date of subscription
in coin.  It was substantially similar to the one issued on the 16th of January, 1878, but
graded the commission, allowing from one-eighth of one per cent. to one-fourth of one per cent.,
according to the amount subscribed.

Several letters written about this date will show my view better than anything I can say now:

  "Washington, D. C., January 6, 1879.
"Dear Sir:--Your note of the 2nd was received upon my return from
the west.

"Much obliged for subscription, and hope that you will soon get above the ten millions and
thus be entitled to the additional one- tenth.  I cannot, however, allow it on the first ten
millions without adopting it as a rule, which would be impossible, by reason of the limitation
of the entire cost to one-half of one per cent. I may be compelled to allow the one-eighth
commission down to $1,000, but perhaps not, as I have to carefully husband the limited fund
out of which all expenses must be paid.  With the energy and hopefulness now exhibited, we
can easily refund the 5-20's within this year and, perhaps, within six months.  The more rapid
the process the less disturbance it will create.  I am hopeful and sanguine of improving business,
not that greenbacks will be so abundant, but that employment will be ready for everyone willing
to work.

"Thanks for your congratulations, which I heartily reciprocate, for the syndicate are entitled
to a large portion of the merit now given to me.  As I got more than my share of the abuse,
it is probably thought that I should get more than my share of the credit.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. L. P. Morton, New York."

  "Washington, D. C., January 8, 1879.
"R. C. Stone, Esq., Secretary Bullion Club, New York.

"Dear Sir:--Your letter of the 5th inst., inclosing a card of invitation from the Bullion Club,
to attend a dinner at their club house on Thursday evening, the 16th inst., is received.

"I regret that my official duties will not permit me, in person, to respond to the toast you
send me, and I cannot do so, by letter, in words more expressive than the toast itself, 'To
Resumption-- may it be forever.'

"Irredeemable money is always the result of war, pestilence, or some great misfortune.  A nation
would not, except in dire necessity, issue its promises to pay money when it is unable to redeem
those promises.  I know that when the legal tenders were first issued, in February, 1862, we
were under a dire necessity.  The doubt that prevented several influential Senators, like Fessenden
and Collamer, from voting for the legal tender clause, was that they were not convinced that
our necessities were so extreme as to demand the issue of irredeemable paper money.  Most of
those who voted for it justified their vote upon the ground that the very existence of the
country depended upon its ability to coin into money its promises to pay. THat was the position
taken by me.  We were assured by Secretary Chase that nearly one hundred millions of unpaid
requisitions were lying upon his table, for money due to soldiers in the presence of the enemy,
and for food and clothing to maintain them at the front.  We then provided for the issue of
legal tender United States notes, as an extreme remedy in the nation's peril.  It has always
seemed strange that so large and respectable a body of our fellow- citizens should regard the
continuance of irredeemable money as the permanent policy of a nation so strong and rich as
ours, able to pay every dollar of its debts on demand, after the causes of its issue had disappeared.
To resume is to recover from illness, to escape danger, to stand sound and healthy in the financial
world, with our currency based upon the intrinsic value of solid coin.

"Therefore I say, may resumption be perpetual.  To wish otherwise is to hope for war, danger,
and national peril, calamities to which our nation, like others, may be subject, but against
which the earnest aspiration of every patriot will be uttered.

  "Very respectfully yours,
  "John Sherman."

  "January 10, 1879.
"H. C. Fahnestock, Esq.,
  "Vice President First National Bank, New York.
"Sir:--Your unofficial letter of the 9th inst., suggesting the
danger that may arise from the very large and rapid subscriptions
to the four per cent. bonds, is received.

"The danger is apparent enough to all, and certainly to those who purchase without ability
to pay at the time stipulated, but it is not one that the government can guard against, except
only by taking care to have ample security for each subscription.

"In the face of the advertisement now outstanding, I could not withdraw the money from deposit
with subscribing banks, until at or near the time of the maturity of the call, when they must
be prepared to pay.  It is not the interest of the government to force subscriptions beyond
the ability of investors, but we cannot check subscriptions by any violation of the public
advertisement or any public caution against the danger that is open to everyone.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman."

  "Washington, D. C., January 13, 1879.
"George Kerr, Esq., Janesville, Bremer Co., Iowa.

"Sir:--I have received your letter of the 6th instant inclosing a slip cut from the Bremer
County 'Independent,' a weekly paper published in Waverly, containing a statement to the effect
that the First National of New York is enjoying, from the department, special privileges in
the matter of holding public money on account of subscriptions to the four per cent. consols
of 1907, and receiving from the government unusual commissions on subscription.

"It is needless to say to you that the statement is entirely erroneous from beginning to end.

"In the department's circular of the first instant, a copy of which is hereby inclosed for
your information, all national banks are invited to become financial agents, and depositaries
of public moneys received on account of the sale of these bonds, and the commissions allowed
on subscriptions are plainly stated therein. Over one hundred (100) national banks have been
thus designated as depositaries for the purpose mentioned, and all are treated precisely alike,
both as to commissions allowed and balances held.

"The First National Bank of New York enjoys, as a United States depositary, no special privileges
whatever from the department. It has, however, thus far, subscribed for a larger amount of
four per cent. bonds than any other bank, and has, consequently, received a larger amount for
commissions.  But any other bank subscribing for the same amount of bonds would, of course,
receive the same amount for commissions.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

  "Treasury Department,                }
  "Washington, D. C., January 14, 1879.}
"H. C. Fahnestock, Esq., New York.

"Dear Sir:--Your note of the 13th instant is received.

"In buying the fours thrown upon the market, you are rendering as much service to the government
as if you bought directly.  Indeed, I am glad you are buying from the market rather than from
the department.  I do not wish to force this refunding operation too much, lest it may embarrass
resumption.  I only fear that some eager parties may subscribe for more than they can sell
and pay for by called bonds or coin within the running of the call.  This is the only contingency
that disturbs me.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman."

My published correspondence shows that with all the efforts and strength of the department
it was impossible to keep up with the subscriptions for bonds pouring in from all parts of
the United States and from Europe.  Over sixty millions were subscribed for in the first two
weeks of January.  Offers made by me in December, though not accepted at the time, were made
the grounds of demands in January, when conditions had greatly changed.  As the money received
for four per cent. bonds could not be applied to the payment of six per cent. called bonds
until interest on such bonds ceased, ninety days after the call, I feared that the enormous
deposits would create a serious stringency in the money market, and perhaps cause a panic after
the first of April.  The banks and bankers in New York, as well as in other large cities of
the United States, were actively competing to swell these subscriptions, so as to get the larger
commission offered for the greater amount of bonds sold.  Such a contest occurred between the
First National Bank of New York, and Seligman & Co., and their associates.  In ended in a contract
made on the 21st of January, between the Secretary of the Treasury and the former syndicate,
by which the latter subscribed for $10,000,000 of four per cent. bonds, on the terms stated
in my circular of January 1, and $5,000,000 a month thereafter, the secretary reserving the
power to terminate the contract.

On the same day a call was made for $20,000,000 of six per cent. bonds.  Another call for a
like amount was made on the 28th.  The aggregate call for six per cent. bonds in January was
$120,000,000.  He was instructed to advise me frequently as to the condition of the business
intrusted to him.

The object of this sale of bonds in London was stated in the public prints, and also in the
following letter:

  "Treasury Department, January 22, 1879.
"Charles M. Fry, Esq.,
  "President Bank of New York, National Banking Association, New
    York.
"Sir:--Your telegram was received yesterday.

"The syndicate arrangement was confined to the sale of bonds in Europe, where it is deemed
important to sell bonds partly to cover called bonds held abroad; and a contract has been made
with bankers having houses in London, on precisely the same terms as were extended to all in
this country.  It was thought that this would be best for the domestic loan.  No contract of
arrangement will be made to interfere in any way with the free, open, popular subscriptions
in the United States.

"I am glad to notice your success and will give you every facility that is extended to anyone else.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

The sale in London was fully justified when the called bonds matured, and those held abroad
were paid for without the exportation of coin.  It was my desire to secure the exchange of
four per cent. bonds directly with the holders of the six per cents.  For this purpose I invited,
by a department order widely circulated, such an exchange, allowing to the holder of any six
per cent. bond, whether called or uncalled, the same commission and allowance for interest
granted to banks and bankers.  By these expedients I hoped for, and succeeded in conducting,
the change of bonds without disturbing the ordinary current of business.

The process of refunding the 5-20 six per cent. bonds, by the sale of four per cent. bonds,
went on with some fluctuations until the 4th of April, 1879, when all the six per cent. bonds
then redeemable were called for payment.  This period in the magnitude of business done was
far the most active and important while I was Secretary of the Treasury.  The struggle between
banks and bankers, not only in the United States but in London also, gave rise to many questions
which had to be promptly acted upon, chiefly by cable or telegram. The amount involved were
so large as to induce caution and care. The principal difficulty in refunding arose out of
the provision in the act of Congress that ninety days' notice should be given, to the holder
of bonds, by the government, when it exercised its option to pay, after five years, any portion
of the bonds known as the 5-20 bonds, payable in twenty years but redeemable after five years.
Prudence required the actual sale of four per cent. bonds before a call could be made or notice
given to the holders of the 5-20 bonds, designated by description and numbers, of the intention
of the government to pay them.  When sales were made the money received was deposited in the
treasury of the United States, or with national banks acting as public depositaries, which
were required to give security for such deposits.

The necessary effort of the deposit of large amount involved in refunding operations was to
create a stringency in the money market. I early called the attention of Congress to this difficulty,
but had doubts whether the government would be justified in repealing the law requiring ninety
days' notice.  This provision was a part of the contract between the government and the bondholder,
and could only be changed by the consent of both parties.  Congress failed to act upon my suggestion.
The interest accruing for ninety days at six per cent., or one and a half per cent. on the
great sums involved, was a loss to the government but a gain to the banks or bankers that sold
the bonds.  The syndicate of bankers engaged in the sale of bonds chose the First National
Bank of New York as their depositary.  The department was indifferent where the deposits were
made so that they were amply secured.  Other banks and bankers engaged in the sale of bonds
chose their own depositaries, and thus an active competition was created in which the department
took no part or interest.

This struggle led to charges of favoritism on the part of the department, but they were without
the slightest foundation.  Every order, ruling and letter was fully discussed and considered
by the Secretary and other chief officers of the treasury, and also by General Hillhouse, assistant
treasurer at New York, and is in the printed report of the letters, contracts, circulars and
accounts relating to resumption and refunding made to Congress on the 2nd of December, 1879.

The charge was especially made that favor was shown the First National Bank of New York, of
which George F. Baker was president and H. C. Fahnestock was vice president.  It was said that
I was a stockholder in that bank, and that I was interested in the syndicate.  It is scarcely
necessary for me to say, as I do, that these charges and imputations were absolutely false.
This bank and the associated bankers sold larger amounts of four per cent. bonds than any others
and received a corresponding commission, but, instead of being favored, they were constantly
complaining of the severity of the treasury restrictions.  Rothschild, the head of the great
banking house in London and the chief of the syndicate, especially complained of what he called
the "stinginess" of the treasury department.  I can say for all the officers of the treasury
that not one of them was interested in transactions growing out of resumption or refunding,
or did or could derive any benefit therefrom.

The rapid payment of the 5-20 bonds had a more serious effect upon the English market than
upon our own.  Here the four per cent. bonds were received in place of the six per cent. bonds,
no doubt with regret by the holders of the latter for the loss of one-third of their interest,
but accompanied by a sense of national pride that our credit was so good.  In London the process
of refunding was regarded with disfavor and in some cases by denunciation.  On the 4th of March
Secretary Evarts wrote me the following letter:

  "Department of State,      }
  "Washington, March 4, 1870.}
"Hon. John Sherman, Secretary of the Treasury.

"Sir:--I have the honor to transmit herewith, for your information, a copy of a dispatch No.
928, dated February 12, from the consul general at London, in which the department is advised
that there exists dissatisfaction, among certain holders of the 5-20 bonds of the issue of
1867, with the rapidity with which the government is refunding its debt at a lower rate of
interest, and that it is the purpose of such holders to demand payment of their called bonds
in coin.  I have to honor to be, sir, your obedient servant.

  "Wm. M. Evarts."

This demand was easily met by the sale of four per cent. bonds in London, and the balance of
trade in our favor was increasing.  The anticipated movement of gold did not occur.

Congress, by the act approved January 25, 1879, extended the process of refunding to the 10-40
bonds bearing interest at the rate of five per cent., amounting to $195,000,000 as follows:

"AN ACT TO FACILITATE THE REFUNDING THE NATIONAL DEBT.  In any exchange made under the provisions
of this section interest may be allowed, on the bonds redeemed, for a period of three months."

On the 26th of February the following act was passed:

"AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE THE ISSUE OF CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT IN AID
  OF THE REFUNDING OF THE PUBLIC DEBT.

On the 4th of March, 1879, the amount of uncalled 5-20 six per cent. bonds outstanding was
$88,079,800.  Anticipating that sales of four per cent. bonds would continue, I gave the following
notice:

"Notice is given that when the 5-20 six per cent. bonds of the United States are covered by
subscriptions to the four per cent. consols, the latter will be withdrawn from sale upon the
terms proposed by department circular of January 1, 1879, and upon the terms stated in the
contract with the Messrs. Rothschild and others, of the date of January 21, 1879.  The amount
of 5-20 six per cent. bonds outstanding and embraced in calls to this date is $88,079,800.
When this sum is covered by subscriptions under the existing circular and contract, all further
sales of four per cent. consols, to provide for the refunding of the 10-40 five per cent. bonds,
will be made upon terms which will probably be less favorable to the purchaser, and in accordance
with new proposals and contracts. This notice is given so that all parties wishing to subscribe
for consols upon the terms stated in the circular and contract may have an opportunity to do
so until the 5-20 bonds are called."

In giving this notice I had in view a change in the mode of refunding which would save to the
government the whole or large part of the three months' interest pending the call.  This notice
gave an additional spur to the market for four per cent. bonds.  Copies of it were sent to
Mr. Conant and to all parties interested in pending operations, and due notice was given to
all persons and corporations engaged in the sale of bonds that all existing contracts would
terminate when the 5-20 bonds were covered by subscriptions.

At this time there was a good deal of anxiety as to the effect of the large sale of four per
cent. bonds.  If these could be exchanged, par for par for six per cent. bonds, the operation
would be easy, but many holders of called bonds would not accept the lower rate of interest
and invested the principal of their bonds in other securities.  General Hillhouse, on the 8th
of March, expressed the common feeling as follows:

"There is a good deal of speculation in the papers, as well as in business circles, as to the
probable effect on the money market of the settlements to be made in April, during which month,
if I am not mistaken, about $150,000,000 of calls will mature.  It is now seen, however, that
investment demand for the fours is much larger than was anticipated by many; and the subscribing
banks will be, therefore, likely to find themselves loaded with large amounts which they cannot
dispose of.  It would not be strange, in the closing of such vast transactions, if there should
be some stringency, but with the favorable indications, that the public are taking the bonds
freely, and with the power of the secretary in various ways to facilitate the settlements,
it can hardly be more than temporary."

Mr. Conant wrote me, on March 8, from London:

"I have called on all the members of the syndicate several times within the past few days,
and have urged them very strongly to push the sales of the bonds here.  I have persistently
tried to persuade them that they ought to conduct the business with far more energy, and I
have said to them that, at the time the contract was entered into, representations were made
to you that $50,000,000 of the four per cent. consols could be disposed of on this side of
the Atlantic, and that as they had undertaken the business they should not disappoint you.
I have represented to them the importance of preventing the shipments of gold from New York,
and that you supposed that the sales of bonds which you expected they would make would prevent
such shipments. . . .

"The feeling which I alluded to in my last letter, that when the time arrives for the settlement
of the large subscriptions made in New York and elsewhere at home the market will be found
overloaded, and that a fall in price will take place, still exists here, and has the effect
of causing certain classes of investors to delay making purchases, which they will ultimately
make.  I have not hesitated to say to the associates here that when refunding operations shall
have been completed the four per cent. consols will soon thereafter go to a premium, and good
reasons can be given why such should be the case."

Soon after I commenced receiving prophecies of stringency and disaster.  A long letter from
Fisk & Hatch, of New York, said that general apprehension had been growing up in financial
circles, and was rapidly gaining ground, that the settlements by the national banks with the
treasury department, in April and May, for the large subscriptions of four per cent. bonds
made in January and February, would occasion serious disturbance and embarrassment in the money
market.  They advised me to pursue a course that, whether proper or not, was not in accordance
with law.  Mr. L. P. Morton., on the same date, took a milder view of it, but still suggested
a remedy not within my power.

On the 13th, General Hillhouse, in referring to the apprehensions of my correspondents in regard
to the settlements in connection with refunding, said that they might be caused in some instances
by the suspicion, if not by the conviction, that their subscriptions had been carried beyond
the point of absolute safety, "and now that settlement day is approaching they are naturally
desirous of ascertaining how far they can count on the forbearance of the government."

This was the same view I had taken of the matter.  I did not feel myself officially bound to
do anything but to require prompt payment for the bonds subscribed.  The treasury, however,
was well prepared for any probable stringency, and I was convinced that the settlements would
not cause any serious disturbance.  The advices from London continued to be unfavorable.  The
bonds were offered in the market in some cases at a less price than the syndicate were to pay
for them.

In the process of selling the four per cent. bonds I had frequently been written to by persons
of limited means, who wished to invest their savings in government bonds of small denominations
bearing four per cent. interest.  I called the attention of the proper committee of each House
to the expediency of issuing notes or certificates of that description, and the act of February
26, 1879, already quoted, was passed.

On the 26th of March I issued a circular relative to these certificates, prescribing the manner
in which they should be sold, and stated the purpose and probable effect of their issue, as
follows:

"The primary purpose of these certificates is to enable persons of limited means to husband
small savings as they accrue, and place them where they will draw interest and become the nest
egg for future accumulation.  The form of certificate seems better adapted for the purpose
than the French ventes or the English savings bank system.  The objection to a national savings
bank is that, in a country so extensive as ours, the agencies would necessarily be scattered,
and the cost and delay of correspondence and transferring money to Washington would be considerable;
but, more than all, the United States cannot undertake the risk of repaying deposits at any
time when called for.  The necessary reserve for that purpose would make the system burdensome.
The certificate, as issued, may, at the expense of the subscriber, be either to bearer, or,
by being registered, only transferable by assignment on the books of the treasury.  It combines,
in the cheapest form, all the benefits of any system of savings banks that has been devised.
No doubt these certificates, when first issued, will, by voluntary consent of parties, be used
as currency; but, after they shall have run a short time, the accruing interest on them will
induce their sorting and holding, and thus, like the compound-interest notes, they will cease
to be a currency and become an investment.  Their possible use as currency is certainly no
objection to them; for, though I adhere as strictly as anyone to a specie standard of value,
I think that, it being constantly maintained by ample reserves and prompt redemption, current
money in different forms should be provided for daily use.  Diversity of the currency, if it
is always redeemable, is no objection.  These certificates will always be redeemable in the
bonds stipulated for, and can, with profit, be issued, while the money received for them can
be used in redeeming bonds bearing a higher rate of interest.  They are of as low a denomination
as can be conveniently issued and bear interest.  The issue of this certificate is a safe experiment.
I have confidence that it will be beneficial to the holder, in begetting habits of saving,
and to the treasury, in aiding refunding; but its great benefit will be that the people themselves
will in this way have a direct interest in preserving and maintaining the public faith."

On the same date I wrote a note for publication to the treasurer of the United States, to facilitate
the payment of called bonds, as follows:

"As it is desirable to make payment of called bonds in the mode that will least disturb the
market, you will draw from the depositary banks the proceeds of four per cent. bonds only when
required to make payment of called bonds, and in proportion from the several depositaries to
the amounts held by them, as near as may be, in sums of $1,000.  Money in the treasury received
from four per cent. bonds should be applied to the payment of called bonds before such drafts
are made.

"When practicable, drafts upon depositary banks, for transfers of deposits on account of proceeds
of four per cent. bonds, may be so drawn as to be payable at the option of the bank, through
the New York clearing house.

"Drafts on depositary banks in cities other than New York should be drawn a sufficient time
in advance to meet payments there.

"Payment by called bonds should be treated as payment in money as of the date when it would,
under this order, be required."

On the 27th I received from Conant the following cablegram:

"Would be pleased to know if subscriptions to be settled during April can be expected without
disturbing market in New York."

I answered on the same day as follows:

"Entirely confident subscriptions during next month will be settled without disturbing market.
Order of the treasury department yesterday will facilitate greatly."

The following correspondence with Conant, the syndicate and myself then took place:

  "London, March 28, 1879.
"Sherman, Washington.

"Rothschild & Sons request me to say they do not consider contract of January 21, 1879, requires
subscription two million to be made April 1.  On account of market price below par at present
time they desire delay subscription few days.  Hope you will consent.

  "Conant."

  "Treasury Department, March 28, 1879.
"Conant, London.

"I think contract of January 21, 1879, very plain, subscription should be made April 1, but,
if they desire, time will be extended to April 8.

  "Sherman."

  "Treasury Department, March 28, 1879.
"August Belmont & Co., New York.

"Gentlemen:--In confirmation of my two telegrams of to-day to you, copies of which are inclosed,
I have to inform you that the proper legal officers of the department, as well as myself, consider
it very clear that, under the contract of January 21, your option to make the second subscription
expires on the 1st of April, but I am not at all desirous of raising the question, and therefore
am willing to extend the time a week, within which I am quite confident the anxiety about the
April payments will begin to subside.  Thus far this week, over $17,000,000 called bonds have
been redeemed by credit on subscriptions, and $450,000 only paid by draft.  Called bonds are
rapidly coming in for credit.  The subscriptions in excess of bonds called now amount to $6,600,000.
With an assurance of a subscription of $2,000,000 from you, by the 1st, or even the 8th, of
April, I would immediately issue a call for $10,000,000, and may do so without waiting for
your subscription.

"I would prefer that the parties to the contract should not avail themselves of the extension
offered, but leave that entirely to your good judgment.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

"The contract is very plain that the first subscription should be made by April 1.  The stipulation
for five million each month would have made the second subscription in February or March, but,
by the agreement, it need not be made before April 1.

  "John Sherman, Secretary."

  "New York, March 28, 1879.

  "Yours, very respectfully,
  "Pro August Belmont & Co.
  "W. Suttgen.
  "W. Beuter."

The explanation of these cablegrams is given in the following letter:

  "New Court, St. Swithin's Lane,         }
  "London, E. C., England, March 29, 1879.}
"Dear Mr. Secretary:--On the 27th instant I had the honor to make
an inquiry of you by cable dispatch, as follows:  'Would be pleased
to know if subscriptions to be settled during April can be effected
without disturbing market in New York.'  The constant decline in
the price of all descriptions of our bonds in New York, the strenuous
efforts being made by certain parties to sell American bonds here
at low rates on home account, particularly the four and four and
a half per cent. stock, the advancing rates of interest, and the
condition of the exchanges, together with the rumors concerning
scarcity of money in New Orleans and elsewhere, gave rise to
apprehension, in the minds of many, that refunding operations had
been carried to too great an extent; that too many bonds had been
subscribed for on speculative account, and that any forced settlement
of the subscriptions falling due in April would produce a panic.
Private telegrams sent here conveyed information to the effect that
arrangements would be made between yourself and the banks, by which
the deposits in them would not be drawn upon until absolutely
necessary.  The answer, however, which I received from you a few
hours later was highly gratifying and reassuring, and I gave it as
much publicity as possible without, of course, publishing it.
The associates claim that they are only required to take five
millions of the bonds during the month of April, and that having
already taken three-fifths of the amount in advance, they should,
in view of the impossibility of disposing of the stock at present
prices, be allowed the balance of the month in which to subscribe
for the remaining two millions.  They argue that it cannot be
expected that they can afford to take the bonds and pay the government
one and a half per cent. above the market prices, and they add that
they do not think you would wish to have them do so.  They also
say that if they wanted the bonds for speculative purposes only
they should give up the contract and purchase in the open market;
but their policy is to keep the price at par and not to buy or sell
when it is below par.  Bonds will sell more rapidly when they are
at par than when below it.  It is the speculators and not the
investors, as a rule, who deal in stocks when they are cheap.  If
the price of the bonds had remained at par, I have no doubt but
that all the bonds I have here would already have been disposed
of, and that the parties would have been ready and willing to make
the subscription for five millions on April 1.

"The Messrs. Rothschild say that, owing to the high price which they were compelled to pay
for called bonds, and the reduced price at which they were compelled to part with a portion
of the four per cent. bonds, they have made a slight loss on their transactions so far.  They
like to have business relations and connections with governments, and I think that that disposition
on their part is paramount to the question of profits.  They take the place of actual gold
in settling exchanges, and thereby prevent the disturbances in the money market which always
result from the moving of bullion.  I have no doubt but that the use of these bonds in this
manner has stimulated purchases of grain and produce from us which would never have left our
shores if payment for the same could only have been made in bullion.  I received this morning
your cable message in answer to the one I sent yesterday, as follows:

'I think contract of January 21, 1879, very plain. F. Conant. "Hon. John Sherman."

I have set out in full this correspondence with Rothschild and his associates and with Conant,
to show that on the eve of complete success they were discouraged and asked for a postponement
of, to them, the small subscription of $1,000,000, and did not even think of taking the option
of $10,000,000 of bonds subsequently claimed.

With the 1st of April all stringency disappeared.  Accounts were settled without difficulty.
The amount of four per cent. consols sold to March 31, inclusive, was $473,443,400.

On the 4th of April, while attending a meeting of the cabinet, I was handed the following telegram:

  "New York, April 4, 1879.
"Hon. John Sherman, Secretary of the Treasury, Washington, D. C.

"National Bank of Commerce in New York subscribes for forty million dollars four per cent.
bonds.  Particulars and certificates by mail.

  "Henry F. Vail, President."

I thought the amount was a mistake, that four instead of forty was meant.  I replied as follows:

"Henry F. Vail, President National Bank of Commerce, New York.
 "Before making call I prefer you repeat your subscription."

A few moments after sending this telegram I received the following from Mr. Vail:

"I sent you telegram to-day, which from its importance I beg you will telegraph me acknowledgment
of its receipt."

I replied:

"Your telegram is received, and I have asked repetition of it before making call."

The following telegraphic correspondence then occurred:

"Hon. John Sherman.

"Please enter to-day for us a subscription for ten million dollars four per cents. making,
however, no announcement until we see you to-morrow.

  "G. F. Baker, President First National Bank, New York.

"Hon. John Sherman.

"We have taken two million subscriptions to-day thus far, and more to follow.

  "E. D. Randolph,
  "President Continental National Bank, New York."

  "New York, April 4, 1879.
"Hon. John Sherman.

"Your two telegrams received.  I hereby confirm my telegram of to- day, subscribing, in name
of National Bank of Commerce in New York, for forty million dollars four per cent. bonds.

  "Henry F. Vail, President."

"Henry F. Vail, President National Bank of Commerce, New York.

"Your subscription for forty million four per cent. bonds, having been repeated by telegram,
is accepted.  A call will issue to-day for the balance of the sixty-sevens and to-morrow a
call will issue for the whole of the sixty-eights.

  "John Sherman, Secretary."

"E. D. Randolph, President, etc., New York.

"Your two million subscription received and accepted, but can accept no more.  All 5-20's are
covered.

  "John Sherman, Secretary."

  "New York, April 4, 18979.
"Hon. John Sherman.

"We subscribe for three millions more, making five in all.

  "F. Taylor, Cashier Continental National Bank."

  "Treasury Department, April 4, 1879.
"F. Taylor, Cashier Continental National Bank, New York.

"Your subscription for three millions arrived too late; all the 5- 20's have been covered by
previous subscriptions.

  "John Sherman, Secretary."

A similar telegram was sent to the Continental National Bank of New York, which subscribed
$25,000,000 additional, the Hanover National Bank of New York, $25,000,000, and the New York
National Banking Association, $2,000,000.

I then telegraphed to Mr. Conant as follows:

"Subscriptions have been made covering all 5-20 bonds (consols of 1867 and consols of 1868)
outstanding, reserving for contracting parties the one million not subscribed for.

"Inform the contracting parties and accept no new subscriptions."

On the 4th of April, 1879, I had the satisfaction of issuing the 95th and 96th calls for 5-20
bonds, covering all the bonds outstanding issued under the act of March 3, 1865, and the last
of the United States 5-20 bonds.  The early twenty year bonds, issued during the first two
years of the Civil War, were not yet due or redeemable, and, therefore, could not be called
for payment.  This was a practical illustration of the importance, in issuing government securities,
of reserving the right to redeem them before maturity.

The rapid and irregular subscriptions made on the 4th of April involved the department in serious
difficulty in determining who of the many subscribers were entitled to the bonds.  The aggregate
of subscriptions was more than double the amount of 5-20 bonds outstanding.  By adopting a
rule of accepting bids made before a fixed hour of that day, and by voluntary arrangements
among the bidders, a distribution was made.

The only serious controversy in respect to this distribution was upon the claim of the Rothschilds
that they had option extending to the 30th of June for ten millions of bonds, and for one million
extended from April 1 to April 8.  The latter was allowed, but the department held that the
option for ten millions June 30 was dependent upon whether the bonds were previously sold,
and this occurred on the 4th of April.  This gave rise to a controversy which was settled by
the voluntary transfer, by the National Bank of Commerce, of ten millions of the forty millions
bonds subscribed for by it.  Rothschild, the head of the house, would not accept this offer,
but, with some show of resentment, declined to receive his share of the bonds, but they were
eagerly taken by his associates.

On the 16th of April I published the offer of $150,000,000 four per cent. bonds at one-half
of one per cent. above par and accrued interest, and reserved $44,566,300 of these bonds for
the conversion of ten dollar refunding certificates.

The following telegrams, addressed to the Secretary of the Treasury on the 17th of April, tell
the result:

From the Bank of New York National Banking Association, New York:

"Send two millions four per cent. bonds under terms of to-day's dispatch."

From Chase National Bank, New York:

"We have subscribed for half million dollars four per cent. bonds on terms just issued.  Can
we deposit our securities at the treasury here, as heretofore?"

From First National Bank, New York:

"Please enter subscription this date for ten million dollars, and reserve further amount of
fifteen millions, awaiting our letter. Please make no announcement of either to-day, for reasons
will explain."

From Bank of New York National Banking Association, New York:

"Send seventy-five certificates ten thousand each, fifty of five thousand each, four per cents.,
in name of I. & S. Wormser.  Also four hundred bonds five hundred each, three hundred of one
thousand each; in all, one million five hundred thousand.  Certificate deposit by mail."

From Baltzer and Lichtenstein, New York:

"We subscribe to-day through the National Bank of the state for one million fours."

From National Bank of the State of New York:

"We confirm dispatch of Baltzer and Lichtenstein order one million four per cent. consols,
and order, in addition to that and our previous dispatch, one million more, half each coupon
and registered."

Bank of New York National Banking Association, New York:

"We take two million more fours; particulars later."

From National Bank of the State of New York:

"Please forward immediately four million United States four per cent. consols."

* * * * *

"Please forward three hundred thousand registered and two hundred thousand coupons four per
cent. consols.  Particulars by mail."

* * * * *

"Please forward one million four per cent. consols coupons."

* * * * *

"Please forward immediately fifteen hundred thousand United States four per cent. consols additional
to all former subscriptions."

From Bank of New York National Banking Association:

"Send one hundred and twenty certificates, ten thousand each, in name of I. & S. Wormser; also
eight hundred coupon bonds, one thousand each, in all, two million fours.  Certificate by mail."

* * * * *

"We subscribe for four millions fours; this is in addition to all other telegrams.  Certificates
by mail."

From Continental National Bank, New York:

"We subscribe to-day two million four per cents., name Hatch & Foote.  Particulars by mail."

From First National Bank, New York:

"Please enter our subscription under this date for one hundred and fifty million dollars four
per cent. bonds and forty million dollars refunding certificates, in all, one hundred and ninety
million dollars, under terms of your circulars of April 16 and March 7. These subscriptions
are for this bank and its associates.  Will see you to-morrow morning.  This is repetition
of dispatch sent to the department."

From National Bank, State of New York:

"Confirming previous dispatches covering subscriptions of seven million five hundred thousand
dollars to four per cent. loan, please forward additional two millions coupon bonds."

From Bank of New York National Banking Association:

"We subscribe for one million four per cents.  Certificates of deposit by mail to-morrow."

I sent the following telegram to the First National Bank of New York:

"Your telegram covering one hundred and ninety million consols staggers me.  Your telegram
for twenty-five million received, and entered at two o'clock.  About thirty million from other
parties were received and entered before your last telegram.  Will wait till letters received.
What is the matter?  Are you all crazy?"

On the 18th the bids were carefully analyzed and accepted in the order in which they were received.
The bid of the First National Bank was made on the behalf of an association of banks and bankers.
I declined their offer for refunding certificates and accepted their offer for $111,000,000.

I wrote to Conant, April 18, as follows:

"Since I wrote you the letters yesterday respecting the recent circular of April 16, I have
sold the whole of the $150,000,000 of bonds offered therein; $39,000,000 were sold to sundry
banks in the city of New York, and the residue, $111,000,000, were sold to an association of
banks and bankers through First National Bank. This unexpected and agreeable denouement of
our refunding operations will supersede much that I have written you.  I received and answered
your telegram of to-day.  Arrangements will be made with the new associates for delivery of
four per cent. consols and the receipt of called bonds in London.

"Although I have given notice that I will feel at liberty to do so after the 4th of May, I
prefer that you will postpone any new arrangement for delivery to other parties until the 10th;
hoping that before that time Messrs. J. S. Morgan & Co. will be able to close out the balance
of their last subscription."

On the same day I made a call for $160,000,000 10-40 bonds, being all of such bonds outstanding,
except an amount that would be covered by the proceeds of ten dollar refunding certificates.
The sale of these certificates gave the department a great deal of trouble.  The object and
purpose of the law was to secure to persons of limited means an opportunity to purchase, at
par, certificates of indebtedness bearing four per cent. interest.  As they could be converted
at pleasure into 10-40 bonds of small denominations, it was thought they would be promptly
taken by the persons for whom they were designed.  They were sold in limited amounts to individuals
at post offices, but as they were, when converted into bonds, worth a premium, bankers and
others hired men to stand in line and purchase certificates.  This was a practical fraud on
the law, and was mainly conducted in the cities, and where done the sale was discontinued.
The great body of the certificates were taken by the class of persons for whom they were designed.
In a brief period they were sold, and the proceeds were in the treasury.

On the 21st of April I made the final call for all outstanding 10- 40 bonds.  With this call
the refunding operations were practically at an end for the time.  A good deal of correspondence
was had as to priority of bids and sales of refunding certificates, but this was closed, at
the end of ninety days, by the full payment of the called bonds, and the substitution of bonds
bearing a lower rate of interest.  This was accomplished without the loss of a dollar, or,
so far as I can recall, without a lawsuit.

The aggregate amount of bonds refunded from March 4, 1877, to July 21, 1879, was $845,345,950.

The annual interest saved by this operation was $14,290,416.50.

The general approval and appreciation of these results was manifested by the public press,
and especially in Europe.  Mr. Conant, in a letter dated April 19, said:

"On yesterday morning, at the stock exchange, just after the opening hour, a McLean's cable
dispatch was posted up, stating that you had entered into a contract with a syndicate for the
sale of $150,000,000 of four per cent. bonds, against the outstanding 10- 40 five per cent.
bonds.  People were astounded at the information, and they were all the more astonished because
the operation followed so closely upon the transaction of the 4th instant.  The effect of this
has been to send the price of the bonds up by three-fourths per cent., and to create a demand
for them."

From the date of these transactions the bonds of the United States rapidly advanced in value.
Many similar transactions of my successors in office have been made at a still lower rate of
interest.

Among the agreeable incidents connected with the resumption of specie payments was the adoption
of resolutions by the Chamber of Commerce of New York, on the 2nd of July, 1879.  The second
resolution was as follows:

"Resolved, That this Chamber tenders its congratulations to the Honorable the Secretary of
the Treasury, at once the framer and executor of the law of 1875, upon the success which has
attended his administration of the national finances; as well in the funding of the public
debt, as in the measures he has pursued to restore a sound currency."

I subsequently received, by the hands of William E. Dodge, late president of the Chamber of
Commerce of New York, a letter from that body asking me to sit for my portrait to be placed
on the walls of their Chamber.  On the 24th of February I sent the following reply:

"Gentlemen:--I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt, by the hands of Wm. E. Dodge, late
president of the Chamber of Commerce of New York, of your letter of the 17th instant, covering
a resolution of your body, asking me to sit for my portrait to be placed upon the walls of
your Chamber.

"The kinds words of Mr. Dodge in delivering the resolution add greatly to the compliment contained
therein.  I assure you that I deeply appreciate the honor of being designated in this manner,
by a body so distinguished as the one you represent, composed of members having so large an
influence in the commercial transactions, not only of our country, but of other nations, whose
familiarity with financial and commercial subjects gives to its opinions great respect and
authority.

"The resumption of specie payments has been brought about by the co-operation, not only of
many Senators and Members of Congress, but of the leading merchants, bankers and other business
men of the country.  It was my good fortune to be selected, by my colleagues in the Senate,
to present the resumption act, which was framed with their aid and in their councils, and to
hold my present office at the time when, by its terms, the law was to be enforced.  The only
merit I can claim is the honest and earnest effort, with others, to secure the adoption of
the policy of resumption, and to have executed the law according to its letter and spirit.
I feel that I cannot accept this high compliment, without acknowledging that I am but one of
the many who have contributed to the accomplishment of this beneficent object.

"I will, with great pleasure, give every facility to any artist whom you may select to carry
your resolution into effect.

"Expressing to you, and the gentlemen you represent, my appreciation of a compliment so highly
prized, I have the honor to be,

  "Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
  "John Sherman.
"Messrs. A. A. Lone, James M. Brown, Sam'l D. Babcock, Wm. E. Dodge,
  Henry F. Spaulding, Committee of the Chamber of Commerce, New
  York."

Subsequently, in compliance with this request, I gave to Mr. Huntington, an eminent artist
selected by that body, a number of sittings, and the result was a portrait of great merit,
which was placed in the Chamber of Commerce with that of Alexander Hamilton. I regarded this
as a high compliment from so distinguished a body of merchants, but I do not indulge in the
vanity of a comparison with Hamilton.

On the morning of January 1, 1879, I received intelligence of the sudden death of my eldest
brother, Charles T. Sherman, at his residence in Cleveland.  In company with General Miles
and Senator Cameron, his sons-in-law, and General Sherman, I went to Cleveland to attend the
funeral.  My respect and affection for him has already been stated.  As the eldest member of
our family he contributed more than any other to the happiness of his mother and the success
of his brothers and sisters.  He aided and assisted me in every period of my life, and with
uniform kindness did all he could to advance my interests and add to my comfort and happiness.
As district judge of the United States, for the northern district of Ohio, he was faithful
and just.  When, after twelve years service, he was reproached for aiding in securing the reversal
of an order of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in collecting an unlawful and unjust tax
in the city of New York, as he had a perfect right to do, he resigned his position rather than
engage in a controversy. He was unduly sensitive of all accusations or innuendoes touching
his honor.  He was honest and faithful to every engagement, and had a larger personal following
of intimate friends and associates than either of his brothers.

On the 4th of March, 1879, President Hayes convened the 46th Congress in special session to
meet on the 18th of that month, to provide necessary appropriations for the legislative, executive
and judicial expenses of the government, and also for the support of the army, the 45th Congress
having failed to pass bills for these objects on account of a disagreement of the two Houses
as to certain provisions relating to the election laws.  This session continued until July
1, and was chiefly occupied in political topics, such as reconstruction and elections.  The
Democratic party, for the first time in twenty years, had control of both Houses, but it neither
adopted nor proposed any important financial legislation at that session, the only law passed
in respect to coin, currency or bonds which I recall being one to provide for the exchange
of subsidiary coins for lawful money, and making such coins a legal tender in all sums not
exceeding ten dollars.  Congress seemed to be content with the operations of the treasury department
at that time, and certainly made no obstacle to their success.

About the 1st of May, Mrs. Sherman, accompanied by our adopted daughter, Mary Sherman, then
a young schoolgirl twelve years old, and Miss Florence Hoyt, of New York, Miss Jennie Dennison,
of Columbus, and Miss Julia Parsons, of Cleveland, three bright and accomplished young ladies,
embarked on the steamer Adriatic for a visit to Europe.  Mrs. Sherman placed Mary in a very
good school at Neuchâtel, Switzerland, and then with her companions visited the leading cities
of Europe.

After accompanying the party to New York I went to Mansfield, and as my family was absent and
the homestead occupied by comparative strangers, I stopped at the St. James hotel where, as
was natural, I met a great many of my old neighbors and friends, both Democrats and Republicans,
who welcomed me home.

Among my visitors were several reporters from different parts of the country who wanted to
interview me and especially to learn if I was a candidate for governor, and why I came home.
In the afternoon I visited my farm near by and my homestead of about twenty acres adjoining
the city.  I found them in the usual neglected condition of the property of a non-resident
proprietor, with many of the fences down.  In the evening I was serenaded at the hotel and
made a brief speech to a large audience, commencing as follows:

"I am very happy to be again in your midst, to see your faces and to greet you as friends.
The shaking of your hands is more grateful to me than the music of bands or any parade.  I
never felt like making an explanation in coming before you until now.  I found when I arrived
in my old home that the papers said I came west seeking the nomination for governor.  I came
purely on private business-- to repair my fences and look after neglected property."

The reporters seized upon the reference to my fences, and construed it as having a political
significance.  The phrase "mending fences" became a byword, and every politician engaged in
strengthening his position is still said to be "mending his fences."

Previous to that time mention had been made of me in different parts of the country, not only
for the nomination of Governor of Ohio, but for President of the United States.  Charles Foster
and Alphonso Taft were then spoken of as the leading candidates for nomination as governor.
Both were my personal friends and eminently qualified to perform the duties of the office.
Although I regarded the position of governor as dignified and important, well worthy the ambition
of any citizen, still there were reasons which would prevent my accepting the nomination if
it should be tendered me. I felt that to abandon my duties in the treasury department might
be fairly construed as an evasion of a grave responsibility and an important public duty. 
I knew that President Hayes was very anxious that I should remain in the office of secretary
until the close of his term.  I did not desire to compete with the gentlemen already named,
and did all I could to discourage the movement short of absolute refusal to accept the nomination.
The newspapers of the day, not only in Ohio but in other states, were full of favorable comments
upon my probable nomination for governor, and my correspondence upon the subject was very large.
I have no doubt that had I consented to be a candidate both Foster and Taft would have acquiesced
in my nomination and I, in all human probability, would have been duly elected as Foster was.

As for the nomination for the presidency I made no movement or effort to bring it about, but
then believed that General Grant would, upon his return from his tour around the world, be
nominated and elected.  The following letter will explain fully my position in regard to the
office of both governor and president:

  "Washington, D. C., May 15, 1879.
"My Dear Sir:--I notice, with heartfelt thanks for your personal
kindness in the matter, the course of the 'Commercial' in regard
to my proposed candidacy for Governor of Ohio, and this induces me
to state to you frankly and fully, in confidence, the reasons why
I could not accept the nomination if tendered, and why I hope you
will give such a turn to the matter as will save me the embarrassment
of declining.

"In ordinary circumstance an election as Governor of Ohio, after my life in the Senate, would
be extremely flattering and agreeable; but at present, for several reasons, the least of which
are personal, I could not accept it.

"My wife has gone to Europe on a visit of recreation greatly needed by her, my house in Mansfield
is rented, and all my arrangements are made to be here during the summer.  The nomination would
require me to recall her, to resume my house, and to break up my plans for the summer.  If
this alone stood in the way, I could easily overcome it, but I know from letters received that
my resignation as secretary would be regarded as a desertion of a public trust important to
the whole country, with the selfish view of promoting my personal ambition, not for the governorship
merely but for the presidency, which would impair rather than improve any chance I may have
in that direction.

"The President would regard this change as a great inconvenience and as defeating a desire
he has frequently expressed to maintain his cabinet intact during his term, so that my obligations
to him forbid this.

* * * * *

"All these objections might be met except the one which I think is unanswerable, that my presence
here in the completion of a public duty is far more important to the whole country and the
cause we advocate than if I were to run as a candidate for Governor of Ohio and even succeed
with a large majority.

"All things now tend to our success in Ohio and that is likely to be as complete with any other
candidate for governor as myself, while if left here I will be able to so finish my business
that no one can say it is incomplete.

"As for the mention of my name for the presidency, I am not so blind as not to perceive some
favorable signs for me, but I have thus far observed and intend strictly to adhere to the policy
of taking no step in that direction, doing no act to promote that object, and using none of
the influence of my office towards it, except so far as a strict and close attention to duty
here may help.  I am not now, and do not intend to get, infected with the presidential fever.

  "With high regard, I am, very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"M. Halstead, Esq., Cincinnati, Ohio."

During 1879 and the following year I received a multitude of letters and newspaper paragraphs
advocating my nomination for President. Among the first of such letters was one from an old
friend, John B. Haskin, formerly a Member of Congress from New York.  On the 10th of May, 1879,
I wrote him in answer a letter, not intended for publication, but expressing what I would do
in the contingency mentioned by him, as follows:

"What I would aspire to, in case public opinion should decide to make me a candidate for President,
would be to unite in co-operation with the Republican party all the national elements of the
country that contributed to or aided in any way in the successful vindication of national authority
during the war.  I would do this, not for the purpose of irritating the south or oppressing
them in any way, but to assert and maintain the supremacy of national authority to the full
extent of all the powers conferred by the constitution. This, as I understand it, is the Jacksonian
as well as the Republican view of national powers.

* * * * *

"You see my general ideas would lead me to lean greatly upon the war Democrats and soldiers
in the service, who have been influenced by political events since the war to withhold support
from the Republican party.

"The true issue for 1880 is national supremacy in national matters, honest money and an honest
dollar."

Mr. Haskin gave, or showed, this letter to a New York paper, and it was published.  I expressed
my opinion, but it was not one that should have been made public without authority.  The letter
was the subject of comment and criticism, and was treated as an open declaration of my candidacy
for the office of President.  It was not written with this purpose, as the context clearly
shows.  This incident was a caution to me not to answer such letters, unless I was assured
that my replies would be treated as confidential.  Yet I do not see how a man in public life
can refuse to answer a friendly letter, even if his meaning can be perverted.

During the months of May and June I had a correspondence with John B. Henderson, of St. Louis,
in which he expressed his great interest in my nomination.  This resulted in a conference,
which he advised, with President Hayes.  My reply was as follows:

  "Treasury Department, June 23, 1879.
"My Dear Sir:--In compliance with your suggestion, I yesterday
mentioned to the President my embarrassment from the general
discussion of my name as a possible candidate for the Republican
nomination.  The points I mentioned were how far I should commit
myself to a candidacy and what I should do to promote it, and second
whether, under certain circumstances, he would not, in spite of
his declination, become a candidate for re-election.  He was very
explicit on both points--first that I ought at once to let it be
understood that I was a candidate in the sense stated in the Haskin
letter, and no more--that great care should be taken that while a
candidate, I ought not to take part in any movement of opposition
to others named--especially General Grant.  The feeling is growing
daily that General Grant will not allow his name to be used and
that, while his eminent services should be fully recognized and
rewarded, it is neither right nor politic to elect him to the
presidency for the third term.  The President very truly said that
any appearance of a personal hostility or opposition to General
Grant, would be inconsistent with my constant support of his
administration during eight years, and would induce a concentration
that would surely defeat me.  Upon the second point he was very
explicit--that he would not be a candidate under any circumstances,
and as far as he could properly, without any unseemly interference,
he would favor my election.  This was the general tenor of his
conversation, which he said he would repeat to General Schurz.
This relieves me from some embarrassment, but I still think it is
better for us to remain absolutely quiet, awaiting the development
of public opinion or the voluntary action of personal and political
friends.  Unless there is a clear preponderance of opinion in
preference for my nomination against all others, I do not want to
enter upon the scramble.  As yet I do not see any concentration.
Hoping to see you soon, I remain,

  "Very sincerely yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. John B. Henderson."

After a brief visit to Mansfield I went to Columbus, where I met with a hearty reception from
men of both political parties.  The legislature was in session, and the senators and members,
judges of the courts, and executive officers of the state, called upon me and gave me cordial
greetings.  I attended a reception at the house of Governor Dennison, where I met the leading
citizens of Columbus. On my return to the hotel I was serenaded by a band, and being introduced
by Governor Dennison made a brief speech of a non-partisan character, and in closing said:

"I want to make one personal remark about myself.  Some of my newspaper friends here have tried
to make me a candidate for Governor of Ohio, but I hope none of you will vote for me in convention
or before the people.  I propose to stick to my present place until the question of resumption
is settled beyond a doubt.  I want to convince everybody that the experiment of resumption
is a success; that we can resume; that the United States is not bound to have its notes hawked
about at a discount, but that a note of the United States may travel about the world, everywhere
received as equal to gold coin, and as good as any note ever issued by any nation, either in
ancient or modern times.  I want to see that our debt shall be reduced, which will be done
through four per cent. bonds.  If the present policy prevails, we shall be able to borrow all
the money needed for national uses for less than four per cent., perhaps as low as three."

I returned directly to Washington.  Finding that a determined effort would be made to force
my nomination as governor, I wrote the following letter to prevent it:

  "Treasury Department,     }
  "Washington, May 15, 1879.}
"My Dear Sir:--In view of the kindly interest manifested by political
friends during my recent visit home, that I should be nominated as
the Republican candidate for Governor of Ohio, I have given the
subject the most careful consideration, and have come to the
conclusion that I cannot, in my present situation, accept such a
nomination if tendered.

"I am now engaged in a public duty which demands my constant attention and which can clearly
better be completed by me than by anyone coming freshly into the office.  To now accept the
nomination for governor, though it is an honor I would otherwise highly prize and feel deeply
grateful for, would be justly regarded as a abandonment of a trust important to the whole country,
to promote my personal advancement.  I earnestly hope, therefore, that the convention will
not embarrass me by a tender of a nomination which I would be obliged to decline.

"It may be that no such purpose will be manifested, but I write you so that if the convention
should so incline, you may at once state why I cannot accept.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"General J. S. Robinson, Chairman Republican State Committee,
  Columbus, Ohio."

Charles Foster was nominated by the Republican convention in the latter part of May, and Thomas
Ewing by the Democratic convention. These nominations necessarily made prominent the financial
questions of the time.  After the close of the funding operations, I received from Mr. Blaine,
as chairman of the Republican committee of Maine, the following invitation, which I accepted:

  "Augusta, Me., July 3, 1879.
"Hon. John Sherman, Secy. of Treas.

"My Dear Sir:--Could you speak at Portland, Tuesday, July 23, and then during the same week
at Augusta and Bangor--say 25th-27th? Your Portland speech we should expect to have printed
the next day, accurately from your own slips.

"Your two other speeches, hardly less important to us, might be made with less care and accuracy,
that is, more on the order of the general stump speech.

"In your Portland speech I hope, however, you will talk on something more than the finance,
making it, however, the leading and prominent topic--but giving a heavy hit at the conduct
of the Democrats during the extra session.

  "Sincerely,
  "James G. Blaine."

The election in the State of Maine preceding those of other states, great interest was taken
in it, as the result there would have much influence in other parts of the country.  That state
in the previous year had faltered in support of the Republican party.  In that year there were
three candidates in the field for governor, the Republican, whose name I do not recall, the
Democratic, Garcelon, for hard money, and the Greenback, Smith, under the lead of Solon Chase,
an alleged lunatic in favor of fiat money, the repeal of the resumption law, and the enactment
of an eight-hour law.  Smith received about 40,000 votes, Garcelon about 28,000, and the Republican
candidate about 54,000.  Many Republicans either did not vote or voted the Democratic or Greenback
ticket.  By the constitution of that state a majority of all the votes cast is required to
elect a governor, and in case of failure the house of representatives of the state proceeds
to ballot for choice.  The names are then sent to the senate for the action of that body. 
The result was the election of Garcelon, the Democratic candidate.

This was due to a strong feeling then prevailing in favor of irredeemable or fiat money, and
to some discontent among Republicans with the liberal measures adopted by President Hayes to
secure peace and quiet in the south, especially the recognition of Hampton as Governor of South
Carolina and of Nichols as Governor of Louisiana.

I thought it important to turn the issues of the campaign to the financial measures accomplished
by the Republican party, and therefore prepared with some care a speech to be delivered at
Portland, and confined mainly to this subject.  This speech was made on the 23rd of July, 1879.
I regard it as the best statement of the financial question made by me in that canvass.  In
it I stated fully the action of the administration in respect to the resumption of specie payments,
and the refunding of the public debt.  The people of Maine had been greatly divided upon these
measures.  The Greenback party was opposed to the effort to advance the United States note
to the value of coin which it represented, but wished to make it depend upon some imaginary
value given to it by law.  I said the people of Maine would have to choose between those who
strictly sought to preserve the national faith, and to maintain the greenback at par with coin,
and those who, with utter disregard of the public faith, wished to restore the old state of
affairs, when the greenback could only be passed at a discount, and could neither be received
for customs duties, nor be paid upon the public debt.

The Greenback party had embodied in their platform the following dogmas:

"The general government should issue an ample volume of full legal tender currency to meet
the business needs of the country, and to promptly pay all of its debts."

"The national banking system should be immediately abolished."

"We demand the immediate calling-in and payment of all United States bonds in full legal tender
money."

One of the Members of Congress from the State of Maine, Hon. G. W. Ladd, was reported to have
paid his attention to me, in a speech in Portland, in the following language:

"Mr. Sherman has sold one hundred and ninety millions of four per cent. bonds in one day to
bloodsuckers who were choking the country, and he should be impeached."

In closing my speech I said:

"It is to support such dogmas, my Republican friends, that we are invited to desert the great
party to which we belong.  It may be that the Republican party has made in the last twenty
years some mistakes.  It may not always have come up to your aspirations. Sometimes power may
have been abused.  To err is human; but where it has erred it has always been on the side of
liberty and justice. It led our country in the great struggle for union and nationality, which
more than all else tended to make it great and powerful.  It has always taken side with the
poor and the feeble.  It emancipated a whole race, and has invested them with liberty and all
the rights of citizenship.  It never robbed the ballot box.  It has never deprived any class
of people, for any cause, of the elective franchise.  It maintains the supremacy of the national
government on all national affairs, while observing and protecting the rights of the states.
It has tried to secure the equality of all citizens before the law.  It opposes all distinctions
among men, whether white or black, native or naturalized.  It invites them all to partake of
equal privileges, and secures them an equal chance in life.  It has secured, for the first
time in our history, the rights of a naturalized citizen to protection against claims of military
duty in his native country.  It prescribes no religious test. While it respects religion for
its beneficial influence upon civil society, it recognizes the right of each individual to
worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience, without prejudice or interference.
It supports free common schools as the basis of republican institutions.  It has done more
than any party that ever existed to provide lands for the landless.  It devised and enacted
the homestead law, and has constantly extended this policy, so that all citizens, native and
naturalized, may enjoy, without cost, limited portions of this public land.  It protects American
labor. It is in favor of American industry.  It seeks to diversity productions.  It has steadily
pursued, as an object of national importance, the development of our commerce on inland waters
and on the high seas.  It has protected our flag on every sea; not the stars and bars, not
the flag of a state, but the stars and stripes of the Union.  It seeks to establish in this
republic of ours a great, strong, free government of free men.  It would, with frankness and
sincerity, without malice or hate, extend the right hand of fellowship and fraternity to those
who lately were at war with us, aid them in making fruitful their waste places and in developing
their immense resources, if only they would allow the poor and ignorant men among them the
benefits conferred by the constitution and the laws.  No hand of oppression rests upon them.
No bayonet points to them except in their political imaginings.

"We would gladly fraternize with them if they would allow us, and have but one creed--the constitution
and laws of our country, to be executed and enforced by our country, and for the equal benefit
of all our countrymen.  If they will not accept this, but will keep up sectionalism, maintain
the solid south upon the basis of the principles of the Confederate states, we must prepare
to stand together as the loyal north, true to the Union, true to liberty, and faithful to every
national obligation.  I appeal to every man who ever, at any time, belonged to the Republican
party, to every man who supported his country in its time of danger, to every lover of liberty
regulated by law, and every intelligent Democrat who can see with us the evil tendencies of
the dogmas I have commented upon, to join us in reforming all that is evil, all the abuses
of the past, and in developing the principles and policies which in twenty years have done
so much to strengthen our government, to consolidate our institutions, and to excite the respect
and admiration of mankind."

I made similar speeches at Lewiston, Augusta, Waterville and Bangor. General Sherman's estimate
of my speech at Portland, in reply to an inquiry, is characteristic of him, viz:

"General, your brother, Secretary Sherman, seems to be doing some telling work just now in
the State of Maine; in fact, it is conceded that his recent financial triumphs have made him
a power."

"Well, yes, I think John's doing right well.  He made a good speech at Portland, one that seemed
to me carefully prepared.  I think he answered his critics quite conclusively, but if I were
in John's place I would now save my breath and make no more speeches, but simply say in reply
to other invitations, 'Read my Portland speech,' because whatever other efforts he may make
during the campaign must be more or less a rehash of that."

In the canvass that followed in Maine but little attention was paid to the sectional question,
and the Republican party gained a complete victory.

About the middle of August the business of the treasury department, being confined to routine
duties, was left under the management of Assistant Secretary John B. Hawley.  I determined
to spend the remainder of the month in the campaign in Ohio, then actively progressing, but
confined mainly to the issue between the inflation of paper money and the solid rock of specie
payments.  I made my first speech in that canvass at Steubenville on the 21st of August. The
meeting was a very large one.  Every available seat was occupied by an intelligent audience,
and the aisles and corridors were filled with people sitting or standing.  I opened my speech
as follows:

"I am happy to be again among the people of Ohio, to whom I am under the highest obligations
of duty and gratitude, and especially to be here in this good county of Jefferson, whose representatives
have thrice honored me by their vote when a candidate for the Senate of the United States.
I cheerfully come to speak on matters in which you, as well as the whole people of the United
States, have a common interest; and I will best meet your wishes by stating, in a plain, frank
way, such facts and reasons as appear to me to justify the support you have uniformly given
to the Republican party since its organization in 1854, and to present adequate grounds for
supporting it now.

"Three parties present candidates to the people of Ohio for the highest offices of the state.
It will not be necessary or just for me to arraign the personal character, standing, or services
of either of the candidates on either of these tickets.  They are all respected citizens, and
each would, no doubt, if elected, satisfactorily perform the duties of the office for which
he is nominated.

"But the issues involved are far more important than the candidates. I assure you that upon
the election in Ohio depend questions of public policy which touch upon the framework of our
government and affect the interests of every citizen of the United States.  The same old questions
about which we disputed before the war, and during the war, and since the war, are as clearly
involved in this campaign as they were when Lincoln was elected, or when Grant was fighting
the battles of his country in the Wilderness.

"There are also financial questions involved in this contest.  The Republican party proposed,
maintained, and executed the resumption act as the best remedy for the evils that followed
the panic of 1873.  Under that act it has brought about the resumption of specie payments.
By its policy all forms of money are equal to and redeemable in coin.  It has reduced the interest
on all the public debt that is now redeemable.  It has maintained and advanced the public credit.
It now declares its purpose to hold fast to what it has done, to keep and maintain every dollar
of paper money in circulation as of equal value to the best coin issued from the mint, and
as soon as possible to complete the work of reducing interest on all the public debt to four
per cent. or less.

"The Greenback party not only denounces all we have done, but proposes to reverse it by the
issue of an almost unlimited amount of irredeemable paper money, to destroy the system of free
national banks, and to call in and pay off all the United States bonds with irredeemable money.

"The Democratic party of Ohio, both in its platform and by its candidates, supports more or
less all of these dogmas; but it does so not as a matter of principle, but for political power.
Its main object is, by any sort of alliance on any real or pretended popular issue, to gain
strength enough to unite with the solid south, so that it may restore to power, in all departments
of the national government, the very same doctrines that led to the Civil War, and the very
men who waged it against the Union.  To obtain political power, the democracy seek, by party
discipline, to compel their members to abandon the old and cherished principles of their party
of having a sound currency redeemable in coin.  For this, they overthrew Governor Bishop; for
this, they propose to reopen all the wild and visionary schemes of inflation which have been
twice rejected by the people of Ohio.  Our contest with them is not only on financial questions,
but upon the old and broad question of the power and duty of the national government to enforce
the constitution and laws of the United States in every state and territory, whether in favor
of or against any citizen of the United States.

"Let us first take up these financial questions, and in charity and kindness, and with due
deference to opposing opinions, endeavor to get at the right, if we can.

"The great body of all parties are interested in and desirous of promoting the public good.
If they could only hear both sides fairly stated, there would be less heat and bitterness in
political contests, and more independent voting."

I then proceeded with a full discussion of the financial questions, referring especially to
the speeches made by General Ewing, with whose opinions I was conversant.  I closed with a
brief discussion of the southern question, and especially the nullification of the election
laws in the southern states.  This speech was the best of many made by me in different parts
of the state.  I was engaged in the canvass in Ohio for two weeks afterward, during which I
visited my home at Mansfield.

In traversing the state I was surprised at the remarkable change in the condition of business
and the feelings of the people, and at the evidences of prosperity not only in the workshops
but on the farms.  It was jokingly said that the revival of industries and peace and happiness
was a shrewd political trick of the Republicans to carry the state.  As I rode through the
country I saw for miles and miles luxuriant crops of thousands of acres of wheat, corn, oats
and barley.  It was said that this was merely a part of the campaign strategy of the Republicans,
that really the people were very poor and miserable and on the verge of starvation. This was
the burden of the speeches of General Ewing, who attributed the miseries of the people to my
"wicked financial policy," and said that I was given over to the clutches of the money power
and stripped and robbed the people of Ohio for the benefit of the "bloated bondholders."

While General Ewing was fighting in the shadows of the past, caused by the panic of 1873, a
revolution had taken place, and he who entered into the canvass with the hope that the cry
of distress would aid him in his ambition to be governor, must have been greatly discouraged
by the evidences of prosperity all around him.  I found in my home at Mansfield that business
was prosperous, the workshops were in full blast, and smoke was issuing from the chimney of
every establishment in the place.

My coming to Ohio naturally excited a good deal of comment and of opposition from Democratic
speakers and papers.  I was charged with nepotism in appointing my relatives to office, but
upon examination it was found that I had appointed none, though several, mostly remote, were
holding office under appointments of General Grant. On the 25th of August I left Mansfield
for Columbus and Cincinnati, and on the train met Charles Foster and others on their way to
Mount Vernon.  On their arrival they were met by flags and music, and in response to the calls
I made a brief speech.

On the 27th of August I made my usual annual visit to Cincinnati and the Chamber of Commerce
of that city.  That body is composed in almost equal numbers of members of the two great parties,
and therefore, in addressing it, I carefully refrain from discussing political topics.  At
that time there was a good deal of discussion of the order made by me on the 13th of August,
addressed to the treasurer of the United States, directing him not to withdraw from bank depositaries
the money deposited for the payment of called bonds, until it was required for that purpose.
At the date of that order over $70,000,000 of called bonds were still outstanding, but only
$52,000,000 remained on deposit with national bank depositaries to pay them, thus showing that
$18,000,000 United States notes had been withdrawn from the depositaries into the treasury
in advance of their need for such payment.  These sums were fully secured by the deposit with
the government of bonds to the amount of such deposits and a further sum of bonds to the amount
of five per cent. of the deposit.

I felt that the withdrawal of this great sum in advance of the presentation of the called bonds
would necessarily create an injurious contraction of the currency.  To meet this condition
of affairs, upon the advice of the treasurer at Washington and the assistant treasurer at New
York, and the pressing complaints of business men not interested in depositary banks, I issued
this order:

  "Treasury Department, August 13, 1879.
"Hon. James Gilfillan, Treasurer United States.

"Sir:--With a view to closing as soon as practicable the accounts of the department with depositary
banks on loan account, without unnecessary disturbance of the money market or the withdrawal
of legal tenders from current business, you will please receive from such depositaries in payment
called bonds to be credited when passed through the loan division.  You will require from such
depositaries sufficient money in addition to the called bonds, to insure the withdrawal of
all deposits on loan account on or before the 1st of October next.  The letter of the department
of March 26 is modified accordingly.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman, Secretary."

It was said that this was done to relieve the banks, and especially the First National and
the National Bank of Commerce, of New York, which in closing out the refunding operations had,
as already stated, made large subscriptions for themselves and others, and it was intimated
that I was interested in these banks.  This innuendo was without foundation or excuse, and
was made merely to create a political sensation.  This order was made, not at the request of
the banks, for they were entirely prepared to pay the money, but at the urgent demand of business
men, that the currency should not be withdrawn from the banks where it was employed in active
business, and be deposited in the treasury where it would lay idle.

I thus explained the matter to the Chamber of Commerce, and to the public at large.  I felt
that it would not be advisable for me to drain the money market of legal tenders, and to hoard
them in the treasury to await the presentation of called bonds.  If such a course had been
adopted, the clamor would have been louder and more just.  The order, no doubt, had a happy
effect, as the running accounts were rapidly and quietly closed, by the payment of the called
bonds, without any disturbance in the money market.  The clamor made was beneficial because
it induced the holders of the called bonds to send them in for payment, in which I greatly
rejoiced.

In the evening of that day a reception was given to me at the Lincoln club.  While it was going
on a large crowd, headed by a band, approached the clubhouse, and loudly insisted that I should
speak to them.  As this was a political club, I felt at liberty, on being introduced by Warner
M. Bateman, to make a political speech, mainly devoted to my early friend, General Ewing, and
his peculiar notions of finance.  This was reported in the papers at the time.  If there was
too much political feeling manifested in my speeches at this period, it may be partly excused
by the extreme violence of denunciation of me by Democratic speakers and newspapers.

Later in the evening I visited Wielert's pavilion, on Vine Street, where the usual evening
concert was being given.  The visitors were mainly German citizens, and, as such, were known
to be in favor of a sound currency based upon gold and silver.  The orchestra at once stopped
the piece they were playing, and played the "Star Spangled Banner," amid the cheering of the
assemblage.  They insisted upon a speech, and I said:

"When I came here to-night I did not expect to make a speech, as I have made one already. 
I only came to see the people enjoy themselves, to drink a glass of that good old German beverage,
beer, and to listen to the music.  I am very happy to meet you, and shall carry away with me
a kindly remembrance of your greeting. All I want, and that is what we all want, is honest
money.  A dollar in paper is now worth a dollar in gold or silver anywhere in this country,
and we want affairs so shaped that the paper money issued may be exchanged anywhere or under
any circumstances for gold or silver.  That is my idea of honest money.  [Cries, 'That is so.'
'That is ours, too,' etc.]  We may be assured that such shall be the character of the money
in our country if the people will sustain the party which has equalized the values of the paper
and metal moneys.  Again I thank you for your kind reception."

I returned to Washington and remained there during the month of September, actively employed
in the duties of the department. During this month nearly all the outstanding called bonds
were presented and paid, and all sums deposited with national banks during the operation of
refunding were paid into the treasury and these accounts closed.

Fruitful crops in the United States, and a large demand for them in Europe, caused an accumulation
of coin in this country.  Much of it came through the customhouse in New York, but most of
it was in payment for cotton and provisions.  It was readily exchanged for United States notes
and silver certificates.  As all forms of money were of equal purchasing power and paper money
was much more convenient to handle than coin, the exchange of coin, by the holders of it, for
notes or certificates, was a substantial benefit to them and strengthened the treasury.  I
promoted these exchanges as far as the law allowed.  I deemed it wise to distribute this coin
among the several sub-treasuries of the United States, maintaining always the reserve for the
redemption of United States notes in the sub- treasury in New York as the law required.  For
this purpose I issued the following order:

  "Treasury Department,           }
  "Washington, September 19, 1879.}
"Gold coin beyond the needs of the government having accumulated
in the treasury of the United States, by the deposit in the several
public assay offices of fine bars and foreign coin, for which the
depositors have been paid, at their option, in United States notes,
the treasurer of the United States, and the several assistant
treasurers at Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Cincinnati,
Chicago, St. Louis, New Orleans and San Francisco, are hereby
authorized to pay out gold coin as well as silver coin and notes
upon the current obligations of the government, and upon advances
to disbursing officers, as may be convenient and practicable.
Transfers of coin for this purpose will be made to any assistant
treasurer, when necessary, by the treasurer of the United States,
upon application to him.  The treasurer of the United States in
this city, upon the receipt by him of a certificate of deposit
issued by the United States assistant treasurer at New York, stating
that there has been deposited with him legal tender notes in the
sum of $100 or multiples thereof, will also cause to be shipped
from the mint to the depositor, at his risk and expense, a like
amount of gold coin.  Standard silver dollars may also be obtained
as heretofore.

* * * * *

  "John Sherman, Secretary."

The result of this policy was beneficial, though the demand for coin rarely existed except
for foreign exchange, and this was generally in New York, and largely depended upon the balance
of trade.  Our people had been so accustomed to the use of paper money that they received and
paid United States notes in preference to coin, and this more readily since these notes were
equal in purchasing power to coin.

Senator Thurman, my colleague and personal friend, was active in the canvass in Ohio.  His
term expired on the 4th of March, 1881, and he was a candidate for re-election by the legislature
about to be chosen.  I heard of his speeches, especially those in respect to resumption.  He
commented upon the fact that United States notes were only redeemed in the city of New York,
and claimed that we had not actually resumed, for gold was not in circulation.  He appealed
to his audiences to say whether they had any gold and whether they were not compelled to receive
the same greenbacks then as they had since the period of the war, and said if they wanted gold
they had to go to New York for it.  I regarded this as a piece of demagogism, for he knew the
difference between the greenbacks then and the greenbacks before resumption.  Hearing that
he was to speak in Bellaire shortly I arranged to have certain disbursements for wages in that
neighborhood made in gold coin.  When he made his speech in Bellaire, soon afterwards, he repeated
the same statements that he had previously made, and appealed to the audience to know whether
they had seen any of the gold coin they had heard so much about.  Much to his surprise and
embarrassment quite a number of persons held up and shook gold coin.  This put a stop to his
inquiries.  The people appreciated the advance in the purchasing power of their money, and
neither demanded coin nor cared for it.

Early in October I yielded to the urgent request of Mr. Foster to help in the closing days
of the canvass, and, on the evening of the 8th, addressed a meeting at the west front of the
capitol in Columbus, far exceeding in numbers any political gathering during the campaign.
My opening will indicate the general trend of my remarks:

"It is not within my power to reach with my voice all who have assembled on this occasion,
and besides, for some time I have not been much in the habit of speaking in the open air, and
don't know how long my voice will hold out, but I think I will be able to say all that you
will desire to hear from me, as I will be followed by a gentleman distinguished in war and
able to supply any imperfections in my address.

"When I was here in August last it appeared that the great point in the political contest in
which we were about to engage was whether the people of Ohio would stand fast to the resumption
of specie payments, which the Republicans, by a steady and patient courage and unswerving conviction,
had finally brought to a successful consummation on the 1st day of January last, or whether
the people of Ohio would yield to the wild and fanciful ideas of inflation, and desert the
great good that had been accomplished after so long a trial.

"The Democratic party, which had been holding the honored principles of that party, seemed
to be willing to go after strange gods, and to form new alliances, to do anything to gain success,
and that old party sought to form at least temporary alliances, so that the people would forget
the great issue, and follow after these strange and delusive ideas of which I will speak. 
Therefore it was that my friend General Ewing was nominated for Governor of Ohio, with the
expectation that as he had advanced some such ideas in times past, a coalition would be made
between the parties naturally hostile, and that the State of Ohio would be thus gained for
the Democratic ticket."

In the course of my remarks I read an extract from General Ewing's speech of the year before,
in which he stated that if we were out of debt to foreign countries, and if our foreign commerce
floated under our own flag, resumption in gold and silver would be impossible on the then volume
of paper money; that if it were attempted the desperadoes of Wall street and the money kings
of England would present greenbacks, and take the gold as fast as it could be paid over the
counter of the treasury.  I said in reply:

"Not a year rolled around until this resumption came, and these Wall street desperadoes and
these money kings of Europe, instead of coming and demanding our gold in exchange for greenbacks,
now bring their gold to us and want greenbacks for it.

"The money kings of Europe have brought us gold--$36,900,000 in gold coin from France--and
the English have brought their gold and exchanged it for United States notes.  And these Wall
street desperadoes are as eager to get our greenbacks as you are.  They don't want the gold
at all and we cannot put it on them.  Why, my countrymen, United States notes may now travel
the circuit of the world with undiminished honor, and be everywhere redeemed at par in coin.
They are made redeemable everywhere, and at this moment the greenback is worth a premium on
the Pacific coast and in the Hawaiian Islands, and in China and Japan it is worth par; and
in every capital of Europe, in Berlin, in Paris, in London, an American traveling may go anywhere
in the circuit of the civilized world, and take no money with him except United States notes.

"Well, now, General Ewing was mistaken.  Well, why don't General Ewing come down and say 'I
was mistaken?'  [A voice, 'He will come down.']  Yes, after next Tuesday he will."

On the next day I spoke at Springfield to an audience nearly as large, following the general
lines of my Columbus speech.  On the following day I spoke at Lancaster from a stand in front
of the town hall, in plain sight of the house in which General Ewing and I were born.  I spoke
of General Ewing in very complimentary terms, said we had been intimate friends from boyhood,
that our fathers had been friends and neighbors, but that he and I then found ourselves on
opposite sides of a very important question.  I expressed my respect for the sincerity of General
Ewing's motives, but believed that he was thoroughly and radically wrong.  I said I wished
to state frankly how he was wrong, and to what dangerous consequences the fruit of his errors
would lead, and I wanted the people of Lancaster to judge between us.

On the Saturday before the election I spoke in Massillon.  By some misunderstanding I was advertised
to speak on that afternoon at both Massillon and Mansfield, but, by an arrangement subsequently
made, I spoke at Massillon to one of the largest meetings of the campaign, and then was taken
by special train to Mansfield in time to make my closing speech in the canvass.  It was late
in the afternoon, but the crowd that met to hear me remained until my arrival, of which the
following account was given by the local paper:

"But the grand ovation was reserved for our distinguished townsman, Secretary Sherman.  There
were acres of men, women, and children and vehicles at the depot to meet him, and as he stepped
from the cars he was greeted with the booming of cannon, the music of half a dozen bands, and
the loud and long acclaim that came from the throats of the immense concourse of friends. 
A thousand hands of old neighbors were stretched out to grasp his as he moved along with great
difficulty, piloted by the reception committee, through the vast and surging crowd.  Cheer
after cheer went up on every imaginable pretext, and many times calls for 'Three cheers for
John Sherman, our next President,' were honored with a power and enthusiasm that left no room
for doubt as to the intensity of the devotion felt for him at his old home."

In this connection I wish to say once for all that I have been under the highest obligations
to the people of Mansfield during my entire life, from boyhood to old age.  I have, with rare
exceptions, and without distinction of party, received every kindness and favor which anyone
could receive from his fellow-citizens, and if I have not been demonstrative in exhibiting
my appreciation and gratitude, it has nevertheless been entertained, and I wish in this way
to acknowledge it.

In opening my address in the evening I said:

"My fellow-townsmen, I regret your disappointment of to-day, that, by some misunderstanding
as to the hour of your meeting, I felt it my duty, in obedience to the request of the state
committee, to attend the great mass meeting as Massillon this afternoon, and now come before
you wearied and hoarse, to speak of the political questions of the day.

"When I was in Ohio in August last, the chief question in the pending political canvass was,
whether the resumption of specie payments, so long and steadily struggled for, and happily
accomplished by the Republican party, should be maintained, or whether it should give way to
certain wild and erratic notions in favor of irredeemable paper money.  Upon this issue General
Ewing was nominated by the Democratic party, in the hope that he would gain support from a
third party committed to inflation.  Since then it would appear that the Democratic leaders
seek to change the issue.  The same old questions about the rights of states to nullify the
laws of the United States--the same old policy to belittle and degrade our national government
into a mere confederacy of states--are now thrust forward into prominence."

On the following Tuesday I voted, and immediately started for Washington.  The news of the
triumphant election of Foster and Hickenlooper, by over 30,000 majority, and a Republican majority
of twenty-five in the legislature, reached me while on the train.

The management by Governor Foster of his canvass, and his work in it, was as laborious and
effective as any ever conducted in Ohio. He visited every county in the state, often made four
or five speeches in a day, and kept special railroad trains in motion all the while, carrying
him from place to place.  He is not, in the usual sense, an orator, but in his numerous campaigns
he has always made clear and effective statements which the people could understand. His manner
is pleasing, without pretension or gush.  He had been elected to Congress several times in
a district strongly Democratic. In the campaign of 1879 he adopted the same plan that had been
so successful when he was a candidate for Congress.  He was an experienced and efficient hand-shaker.

In the latter part of September I was invited by General Arthur, as chairman of the Republican
state committee of New York, to speak to the Republicans of that state during the pending canvass,
in aid of election of Mr. Cornell as governor.  The circumstances of the removal of Arthur
and Cornell caused some doubt whether I should accept the invitation, as it seemed that the
nomination of Cornell and the management of the canvass by Arthur was an expression of triumph,
and my acceptance would be regarded as a humiliation of the President.  I did not think so
and in this opinion the President concurred.  I, therefore, accepted the invitation by the
following letter:

  "Treasury Department,           }
  "Washington, September 29, 1879.}
"Dear Sir:--I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 25th inst., inviting me to speak to the Republicans in New York
some time during the pending campaign.  It will give me great
pleasure to do my utmost in aid of the election of Mr. Cornell and
the Republican ticket at the coming election, and I wish I could
accept your invitation without reserve; but in view of engagements
made in Ohio, and the official duties incumbent upon me, I cannot
make any more definite reply than to say that by the middle of
October I hope to be able to set aside two or three days to be
spent in your canvass at such places as you may think I can render
the most satisfactory service.  I have also received an invitation
from Mr. Johnson, secretary of your committee.  Please consider
this an answer.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman.
"To General C. A. Arthur,
  "Chairman Republican State Committee, New York."

Shortly afterward I received a letter from Hon. John Jay, expressing regret at my acceptance,
for the reasons I have stated.  To this I replied as follows:

  "October 4, 1879.
"My Dear Sir:--Your note of the 2nd is received.

"I feel as you do that the nomination of Mr. Cornell, and the appointment of Mr. Arthur to
conduct the canvass, has the look of a reproach to the President for their removal.  If only
their personal interests were involved, I should feel great indifference to their success,
but it so happens that Republican success in New York is of such vital importance to the people
of the United States, that their personal interest in the matter, and even the motive of the
nomination and appointment, should be overlooked, with a view to secure the country against
the return to power of the Democratic party.

"We must carry New York next year, or see all the results of the war overthrown and the constitutional
amendments absolutely nullified. We cannot do this if our friends defeat a Republican candidate
for governor fairly nominated, and against whom, there are no substantial charges affecting
his integrity.  Besides, the nomination of Mr. Cornell could easily have been prevented if
the friends of the President and the administration had aided to defeat it.  He was nominated
by our acquiescence, and we should not now complain of it.  The expediency of holding the meeting
you propose, depends entirely upon the question whether or not it would aid the Republican
cause this fall.  I am inclined to think it would not, that such a meeting would deter Republicans
from supporting the regular ticket and, therefore, is ill advised.  I thus frankly state my
opinion as you ask it, but without any desire in any way to influence that of others.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. John Jay, Katonah, N. Y."

After the election in Ohio I received from General Arthur a list of appointments for me in
New York, which if I had attempted to fill would have overtaxed my strength.  Mr. Evarts had
also been invited, but limited his acceptance to one speech to be made in Cooper Institute.
I complained to him that it was not fair to request of me so many speeches where he, a citizen
of that state, agreed to make but one.  His answer was characteristic.  He said: "Well, Mr.
Sherman, when the people of New York wish my views upon public questions they arrange for a
meeting in Cooper Institute, or some such place.  I make the speech and it is printed and is
read."  I thought this, under the circumstances, a refined specimen of egotism, meaning that
he had only to pronounce his opinion to attract universal attention and he need not therefore
repeat his speech at any other place.

This incident recalls to my mind a specimen of his keen wit.  Among the early meetings of the
cabinet President Hayes announced three or four personal appointments that he intended to make,
mainly in the foreign service, in the department of which Mr. Evarts was the head.  Evarts
seemed to be surprised at these appointments, and after some pause he said:  "Mr. President,
I have never had the good fortune to see the 'great western reserve' of Ohio, of which we have
heard so much."  For a moment Hayes did not perceive the quiet sarcasm of Mr. Evarts, which
was a polite expression of his feeling that he should have been consulted about these nominations
before they were announced.  We all caught the idea and the President joined heartily in the
laughter.  Mr. Evarts is not only a man of keen wit, but is a great lawyer and able advocate.
I learned, from my intimate association with him in the cabinet, and subsequently in the Senate
as a member of the committee on foreign relations, to respect and love him.

On the 25th of October, when on my way to New York, at the request of General Kilpatrick I
made a speech at Paterson, New Jersey, on the occasion of the ratification of the Republican
nominations. In this speech I expressed my opinions upon the subject of fraudulent elections,
especially in the south, and, while the government has not been able at any time to completely
protect the ballot box in several states, the opinions I then expressed are still entertained.
I believe the right of each lawful voter to vote in national elections should be enforced by
the power of the national government in every state and territory of the Union.  I said at
this time:

"Now I want to serve notice on the Democratic party, that the Republican party has resolved
upon two things, and it never makes up its mind upon anything until it is determined to put
it through. We are going to see that every lawful voter in this country has a right to vote
one honest ballot at every national election, and no more.  If the Democratic party stands
in the way, so much the worse for the Democratic party.  If the south, rebellious as it is,
stands in the way again, we will protect every voter in his right to vote wherever the constitution
gives the right to vote. Local elections must be regulated by state laws.  Southern voters
may cheat each other as they please in local elections.  The Republican party never trenched
on the rights of states, and does not intend to.

"Whenever national officers or Congressmen are elected, those are national elections, and,
under the plain provisions of the constitution, the nation has the right to protect them. 
The Republican party intends, if the present law is not strong enough, to make it stronger.
In the south 1,000,000 Republicans are disfranchised.  With the help of Almighty God, we intend
to right that wrong.  Congress has a right to regulate congressional elections. The Tweed frauds,
reversing the vote of New York state in 1868, led to the passage of the first federal election
law, breaking up false counts.  Then the Mississippi plan was introduced in the south.

"If Congress was purged to-day of men elected by fraud and bloodshed in the south, the Democrats
would be in a pitiful minority in the capital.  At the last session the Democrats tried to
repeal the election laws, and were met by veto after veto from the stanch Republican President.
Then they tried to nullify existing laws. We must as firmly resist nullification now as when
Jackson threatened 'by the eternal God' to hang the original nullifier, Calhoun.  We must have
free elections.  We are determined to assert the supremacy of the United States in all matters
pertaining to the United States, and to enforce the laws of the United States, come what will."

This declaration of mine at the time created a good deal of criticism, especially in the New
York papers, but, in spite of this, my convictions have grown stronger with time that it is
the imperative duty of the national government to protect the election of all federal officers,
including Members of Congress, by wise conservative laws.

On the 27th of October I spoke in Cooper Institute, confining myself mainly to an exposition
and defense of the financial policy of the administration.  This was hardly needed in the city
of New York though, as Evarts said of his speech, I knew what I said would be printed, and
people who were not familiar with financial topics could read it.  The commercial papers, while
approving the general tenor of the speech, complained that I did not advocate the retirement
of the legal tender notes of the government.  They seemed then, as they do now, to favor a
policy that would withdraw the government from all participation in furnishing a currency.
I have always honestly entertained the opinion that the United States should furnish the body
of circulating notes required for the convenience of the people, and I do yet entertain it,
but the notes should always be maintained at parity with coin.  In the cities generally, where
banks have great influence and where circulating notes are superseded in a great measure by
checks, drafts and clearing house certificates, the wants of the people for paper money secured
by the highest sanction of law and by the promise and credit of the government are not appreciated.
In this speech I referred to the banks as follows:

"They [the banks] are interwoven with all the commercial business of the country, and their
loans and discounts form our most active and useful capital. . . . The abolition of the national
banks would inevitably lead to the incorporation of state banks, especially in bankrupt states,
where any expedient to make paper money cheap will be quickly resorted to. . . . It will open
the question of the repeal of the provisions of the loan laws fixing a limit to the amount
of United States notes, and thus will shock the public credit and raise new questions of authority
which the Supreme Court would probably declare to be unconstitutional.  Free banking open to
all, with prompt and easy redemption, supplies a currency to meet the varying wants of different
periods and seasons.  Who would risk such a question to the changing votes of Congress?"

I must add, however, that I do not believe the banking system would be sustained by popular
opinion unless the great body of our currency was in the form of United States notes or certificates
based upon coin.  If there is any profit in the circulation of such notes, it ought to inure
to the government.  The circulation of banks should only be equal to the local demands for
currency and should always be amply secured, as now, by the deposit of United States bonds,
or some substitute for these bonds equally valuable, when the national bonds shall be redeemed.
This security ought not to extend beyond the amount of bank notes actually outstanding, leaving
the security of deposits by individuals to depend upon the assets of each bank.  The duty of
the government is performed when it guards with undoubted security the payment of the circulating
notes issued by the banks.  In this speech I spoke of the resumption act and the history of
resumption as follows:

"The resumption act was a Republican measure, supported, advocated and voted for by Republican
Senators and Members, and without the aid of a single Democrat in either House of Congress.
It has been adhered to and successfully executed by that party.  The Republican party has won
no victory more complete than the passage, execution and success of the resumption act.  This
measure was adopted in January, 1875, in the midst of the panic, when our paper money was worth
only 85 cents on the dollar.  It was a period of wild speculation and inflation.  The rate
of interest was higher than before or since--the government paying six per cent. in gold, corporations
in fair credit from eight to ten per cent., and individuals from ten to twelve per cent.  Recklessness
in contracting debts was universal.  Railroads were built where they were not needed; furnaces
were put up in excess of all possible demands; and over-production and over-trading occurred
in all branches of business.  The balance of trade for ten years had been steadily against
us, with an aggregate excess of imports over exports of over $1,000,000,000.

"The panic of 1873 put an end to all these wild, visionary schemes, and left the country prostrate
and in ruin.  All business enterprises were paralyzed.  Congress, in a hopeless quandary, looked
in vain for some way of escape from the bankruptcy which threatened every interest and every
individual.  Then it was the Republican party devised and placed upon the statute book the
resumption act, and, against noisy opposition and continual speaking, steadily persevered in
its execution.

* * * * * *

"Now that resumption is a success, Democrats say the Republican party did not bring it about,
but that Providence has done it; that bountiful crops here and bad crops in Europe have been
the cause of all the prosperity that has come since resumption.  We gratefully acknowledge
that Providence has been on the side of the Republican party, or rather, that, having sought
to do right, we find ourselves supported by Divine Providence, and we are grateful to the Almighty
for the plentiful showers and favorable seasons that brought us good crops; but we also remember
that it was the passage of the resumption act, the steady steps toward resumption, the accumulation
of the coin reserve, the economy of the people, and their adjustment of business affairs to
the time fixed for resumption, that, with the blessings of Divine Providence, brought us resumption.

"We should be, and are, thankful to the Almighty, but we are under no thanks whatever to the
Democratic party.  It has not, for twenty- five years, had Providence on its side, but we may
fairly infer that, as it has steadily resisted Providence and patriotic duty for more than
twenty years, it must have had the devil on its side. Democrats can claim no credit, but stand
convicted of a blundering mistake in abandoning the old and tried principles of their party,
and following after strange gods with the hope of a brief and partial success.  They have failed,
and that dogma for hard money, which they abandoned, has been adopted by the Republican party,
as the corner stone of its greatest success."

I spoke at Albany, Rochester, and Syracuse, and, on my way to Washington, at New Brunswick,
New Jersey.

After the election in Ohio, I received several letters from members of the legislature, offering
their support to me as a candidate for United States Senator, to be elected in January to succeed
Mr. Thurman, for the term commencing on the 4th of March, 1881.  Among them was a letter from
L. M. Dayton, a member of the general assembly from Hamilton county, to which I replied as follows:

  "Washington, D. C., November 2, 1879.
"My Dear Sir:--Your note of the 30th ult., in which you inquire
whether I will be a candidate for election as Senator of the United
States in place of Senator Thurman, is received.

"Early last summer, when this subject was first mentioned to me by personal friends, I freely
expressed my conviction that as the general assembly of Ohio had three times conferred upon
me this high and much coveted honor, I ought not to stand in the way of others who might fairly
aspire to that position.  I am of the same opinion now.  During the recent canvass I stated
to several gentlemen who had been named in the public press as probable candidates, that I
would not be a candidate, and I could not now recede from that position without just reproach.

"Please say so to your fellow members, and accept my hearty thanks for your partiality.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. L. M. Dayton, Cincinnati, Ohio."

I also wrote the following letter to Senator A. B. Cole, of Portsmouth, in reply to a similar
offer:

  "Washington, D. C., November 11, 1879.
"My Dear Sir:--Your very kind letter of the 10th inst. is received.
I thank you again for your offer to support me for the Senate, but
you will have seen from the letter I wrote to Colonel Dayton, that
I have determined, under the circumstances stated therein, not to
be a candidate, so that members may feel entirely free to follow
their judgment in the selection of the Senator.  I must be impartial
between the several candidates.

"I thank you also for what you say about the nomination for the presidency.  Such a nomination
would be a very exalted honor, so much so that I ought not to do anything to promote or to
defeat it.  I would be very glad to get the hearty cordial support of the Ohio delegation,
and that being granted I am perfectly willing to abide the decision of the national convention,
and will be ready to support anyone who is nominated.

"I should be glad to see your son, and hope you will give him a letter of introduction to me.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. A. B. Cole, Portsmouth, Ohio."

Cornell was elected Governor of New York, and with him a Republican legislature.  The elections
generally that fall were in favor of the Republican party, but, as both Houses of the 46th
Congress were Democratic, President Hayes had to conduct executive business with a Congress
not in political harmony with him until the 4th of March, 1881, when the term of Congress and
of the President expired.  I feel bound to say that no merely obstructive financial measures
were adopted during that Congress.

The message of the President, communicated to Congress on the 1st of December, 1879, dealt
with the usual topics of such a document; but, instead of commencing with our foreign relations
as usual, he began by congratulating Congress on the successful execution of the resumption
act and the funding of all the public debt redeemable, into bonds bearing a lower rate of interest.
He held that the issue of such notes during the Civil War was not authorized except as a means
of rescuing the country from imminent peril, and the protracted use of them as money was not
contemplated by the framers of the law.  While I did not concur in all the views stated by
the President, especially as to the policy of retiring United States notes then in circulation,
yet his general conclusions in favor of the coin standard were, in my view, sound and just.
I was very willing to hold on to the progress made in making United States notes equivalent
to coin rather than to attempt to secure their retirement from circulation.

In the report made by me as Secretary of the Treasury I stated my opinion that the existing
law was ample to enable the department to maintain resumption upon the volume of United States
notes then outstanding; but added, that in view of the large inflow of gold into the country,
and the high price of public securities, it would seem to be a favorable time to invest a portion
of the sinking fund in United States notes to be retired and canceled, and in this way gradually
to reduce the maximum of such notes to the sum of $300,000,000, the amount named in the resumption
act.

I would not make such a recommendation now, as I am convinced that United States notes based
on coin in the treasury are the best form of currency yet devised, and that the volume might
be gradually increased as the volume of business increases.  Since resumption such notes have
been maintained at par with coin by holding in the treasury coin to the amount of thirty per
cent. of the notes outstanding.  This coin, lying idle and yielding no interest, costs the
government the interest on an equal amount of bonds, or a fraction over one per cent. on the
sum of United States notes in circulation.  These notes are a part of the debt of the United
States, and if redeemed, must be paid by the issue of $346,000,000 of bonds.  I see no reason
why the people of the United States should not have the benefit of this cheap loan rather than
the national banks, and there are many reasons why the issue of a like amount of notes by national
banks cannot fill the place or perform the functions of United States notes.  The issue of
bank notes would be governed by the opinions and interest of the banks, and the amount could
be increased or diminished according to their interests and without regard to the public good.
As an auxiliary and supplement to United States notes, bank notes may be issued as now when
amply secured by United States bonds, but it would be a dangerous experiment to confine our
paper money to bank notes alone, the amount of which would depend upon the interest, hopes
and fears of corporations which would be guided alone by the supposed interests of their stockholders.

There is another objection to a sole dependence on bank notes as currency:  They cannot be
made a legal tender either by the states or the United States, while it is settled by the Supreme
Court that notes of the United States may be made a legal tender, a function that ought to
belong to money.

I know that my views on this subject are not entertained by the influential class of our citizens
who manage our banks, but in this I prefer the opinion and interest of the great body of our
people, who instinctively prefer the notes of the United States, supported by coin reserves,
to any form of bank paper that has yet been devised.  The only danger in our present currency
is that the amount may be increased to a sum that cannot be maintained at par with coin, but
the same or a greater danger would exist if the volume of paper money should be left to the
interested opinion of bankers alone.

It is sometimes claimed that neither the government nor banks should issue paper money, that
coin only is money.  It is sufficient to say that all commercial nations have been constrained
by necessity to provide some form of paper money as a substitute for coin.  The experience
of the United States has proven this necessity and for many years our people were compelled
to rely upon state bank notes as a medium of exchange, with resulting loss and bankruptcy.
For the want of paper money at the commencement of the Civil War, the United States was compelled
to issue its notes and to make them a legal tender.  Without this the effort to preserve the
Union would have utterly failed.  With such a lesson before us it is futile to attempt to conduct
the business of a great country like ours with coin alone.  Gold can only be a measure or standard
of value, but cannot be the current money of the country.  Silver also can only be used as
money for the small transactions of life, its weight and bulk forbidding its use in commerce
or trade.  The fluctuations in market value of these metals make it impossible to permit the
free coinage of both at any ratio with each other without demonetizing one of them.  The cheaper
money will always be the money in circulation.  Wherever free coinage now exists silver is
the only money, while where gold is the standard, silver is employed as a subsidiary coin,
maintained at par in gold by the mandate of the government and its receipt for or redemption
in gold.  The only proposed remedy for this fluctuation is an agreement by commercial nations
upon a common ratio, but thus far all efforts for such an agreement have failed.  If successful
the result might not be as satisfactory as anticipated.

I urged, in my report, the importance of adjusting the coinage ratio of the two metals by treaties
with commercial nations, and, until this could be done, of limiting the coinage of the silver
dollar to such sum as, in the opinion of Congress, would enable the department to readily maintain
the standard dollars of gold and silver at par with each other.

In this report I stated the refunding transactions already described, and recommended the refunding
of all bonds of the United States in the same manner as they became redeemable.  This was successfully
executed by my successors in office.  I was able to say truly of the treasury department, in
conclusion:

"The organization of the several bureaus is such, and the system of accounting so perfect,
that the financial transactions of the government during the past two years, aggregating $3,354,345,040.53,
have been adjusted without question, with the exception of a few small balances now in the
process of collection, of which it is believed the government will eventually lose less than
$13,000, or less than four mills on each $1,000 of the amount involved."

The question of the legal tender quality of United States notes, discussed in my report, was
followed, on the 3rd of December, by the introduction in the Senate of a resolution by Mr.
Bayard as follows:

"Resolved, etc., That from and after the passage of this resolution the treasury notes of the
United States shall be receivable for all dues to the United States excepting duties on imports,
and shall not otherwise be a legal tender; and any of said notes hereafter reissued shall bear
this inscription."

This resolution, while pending in the committee, was debated at some length, and reported back
adversely on the 15th of January, 1880, by Mr. Allison, from a majority of the committee. 
Mr. Bayard presented the views of the minority in favor of the resolution. It was subsequently
discussed at considerable length by Mr. Coke, of Texas, and Mr. Bayard, on opposite sides.
No definite action was taken and the matter rested, and I do not recall that it was ever again
brought before the Senate.  I felt satisfied with the majority report, as I doubted the expediency
or power of Congress to deny to these notes any of the qualities conferred upon them by the
law authorizing their issue, as was the legal tender clause. The beneficial result of resumption
was appreciated by both parties and there was no disposition of Congress to pass any legislation
on the subject.  The speech of Mr. Bayard, made on the 27th of January, 1880, was a careful
and able review of the whole subject of legal tender, but it was evident that neither House
of Congress agreed with him in opinion.

A bill in regard to refunding the debt maturing after the 1st of March, 1881, was introduced
in Congress on the 27th of December, 1879, by Fernando Wood, chairman of the committee of ways
and means of the House.  It provided for a change of existing laws so as to limit the rate
of interest upon the bonds to be issued in such refunding to not to exceed three and a half
per cent. per annum. This bill, if it had been passed, would have prohibited the sale of all
bonds for resumption, as well as for refunding, at a greater rate of interest than three and
a half per cent.  I opposed this proposition, as it would impair the power of maintaining resumption
in case such bonds could not be sold at par, and the existing law did not prevent the secretary
from selling those already authorized at a premium.  No action was taken upon the bill by that
Congress, and Mr. Windom, my successor, found no difficulty in refunding these bonds on more
favorable terms without any change of existing law.

On the 30th of January, 1880, I appeared before the finance committee of the Senate in response
to their invitation.  The committee was composed of Senators Bayard (chairman), Kernan, Wallace,
Beck, Morrill, Allison and Ferry, all of whom were present.  Mr. Bayard stated that a number
of propositions, upon which it was desired to obtain my views, had been submitted by Senator
Beck, and then read them as follows:

"1.  What reason, if any, there is for refusing to pass a bill authorizing the receipt of legal
tenders for customs dues.

"2.  Why the trade dollar should not be converted into a standard dollar.

"3.  What has been the cost of converting the interest-bearing debt, as it stood July 14, 1870,
to what it is now, including double interest, commissions, traveling expenses of agents, etc.,
and the use of public money by banks, and the value of its use, so as to determine whether
the system should be continued or changed.

"4.  The effect of the abolition of the legal tender quality of greenbacks upon the paper currency.

"5.  The necessity for a sinking fund and how it is managed.

"6.  Whether silver coin received in payment of customs duties has been paid out for interest
on the public debt; and if not, why not."

Senator Allison desired to know if this interview was to be stenographically reported, and
the committee decided that it should be.

My answers to these questions and the colloquy with the committee in respect to details cover
fifty-four printed pages, and give by far the most comprehensive statement of treasury operations
during the two or three years before that meeting, and suggestions for future legislation,
that has been written or published.  The length of the interview prevents its introduction
in full, but a statement of some portions of it may be interesting.  In answer to the first
question I said:

"The act of February 25, 1862 (section 3694, R. S.), provides that all the duties on imported
goods shall be paid in coin; and the coin so paid shall be set apart as a special fund to be
applied to two purposes, one of which is the payment in coin of interest on the bonds of the
United States, and the balance to the sinking fund.

"This is an obligation of the government that its coin revenue should be applied to the payment
of interest on the public debt. So long as legal tender notes are maintained at par and parties
are willing to receive them in payment of coin interest, there is no objection to receiving
legal tender notes for customs dues.

"Since resumption it has been the practice of the department to thus receive them, but this
practice can be kept up only as long as parties holding interest obligations are willing to
accept the same notes in payment thereof.  If, by any unforseen and untoward event, the notes
should again depreciate in value below coin, the obligations of the government would still
require that interest on the public debt be paid in coin; and if customs dues were payable
in legal tender notes, the department would have no source from which to obtain the coin necessary
to the payment of interest, for of course holders of interest obligations would not accept
a depreciated currency when they were entitled by law to coin."

I reminded the committee that in my report of December, 1878, I stated that on the 1st of January
following I would receive United States notes for customs duties.  As these notes were redeemable
in coin, it was unreasonable to require the holder of notes to go to one government officer
to get coin for his notes to pay customs duties to another government officer.  I held that
the United States notes had become coin certificates by resumption, and should be treated as
such.  I informed them that I issued the order with some reluctance, and only after full examination
and upon the statement of the Attorney General, who thought technically I could treat the note
as a coin certificate.  I called their attention to the fact that I had informed Congress of
my purpose to receive United States notes for customs duties and had asked specific authority
to do so, but no action was taken, and I was assured that none was needed. The conversation
that followed showed that they all agreed that what I did was right.  It was evidently better
not to provide by specific law that the United States notes should be receivable for customs
dues, for in case of an emergency the law would be imperative, while, if the matter was left
to the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, he could refuse to receive notes for customs
dues and compel their payment in coin.

This led to a long colloquy as to whether the time might come when the United States notes
could not be redeemed in coin.  I entered into a full explanation of the strength of the government,
the amount of reserve on hand, the nature of our ability, and said: "Still we know that wars
may come, pestilence may come, an adverse balance of trade, or some contingency of a kind which
we cannot know of in advance may arise.  I therefore think it is wise to save the right of
the United States to demand coin for customs duties if it should be driven to that exigency."

The question then arose as to the propriety of confining redemption of notes to one place.
Mr. Wallace inquired whether the government notes should not be receivable and interchangeable
at every government depositary.  I answered that the notes should be received everywhere at
par with coin, but I doubted the propriety of paying coin for United States notes except at
one place and that in New York, the natural center for financial operations, where most of
the customs dues were paid and where coin could be most safely hoarded.

Mr. Beck examined me at considerable length, and, with his usual Scotch tenacity, insisted,
in spite of the attorney general, that I was not authorized to receive legal tender notes for
customs dues.  He asked me by what authority I claimed this power.  I quoted the third section
of the resumption act, and gave him a copy of my circular letter to officers of customs, dated
on the 21st of December, 1878, in which, after calling attention to that section, I said:

"By reason of this act, you are authorized to receive United State notes, as well as gold coin
and standard silver dollars, in payment of duties on imports, on and after the first day of
January, 1879.

"Notes thus received will in every instance be deposited with the treasurer, or some assistant
treasurer of the United States, as are other collections of such duties, to be redeemed, from
time to time, in coin, on government account, as the convenience of the service may demand."

Mr. Beck then said:

"I desire to know, Mr. Secretary, whether it is not better, in your opinion, that the Congress
of the United States should prescribe the duties of executive officers, so that they can act
in pursuance of law, rather than the executive officer should be acting on his own notions
of what is best?"

I replied:

"I say yes, decidedly."

Mr. Beck inquired:

"Is not that what we are proposing to do now, by the passage of this law which I seek to have
enacted, and are you not opposing that condition of things?"

I replied:

"An executive officer, when there is a doubt about the law, must give his own construction
of it, but should, of course, readily conform to the action of Congress as soon as it is declared.
The objection I make is not to the passage of a law, but that the bill as proposed applies
it to a possible future state of affairs such as did not exist when this order was made and
does not now."

The subject then turned to the exchange of trade dollars for standard dollars.  Mr. Beck said:
"I have introduced several bills to facilitate the exchange of trade for standard dollars."
I said:

"The bill which I have here is a House bill.  There is no objection in my mind to the object
of this bill; that is, to provide for the exchange of the trade dollar for the standard silver
dollar; the only point is whether the trade dollar shall be treated as bullion, or as a coined
dollar of the United States.  Now, I am clearly of the opinion that it ought to be treated
as so much bullion, issued at the expense of merchants, for their convenience and benefit,
and without profit to the United States, and therefore not entitled to any preference over
other bullion, and we might say not to so much, because it was issued to private parties for
their benefit and at their cost, but stamped by us merely to enable the coins to be used to
better advantage in a foreign market.  I have not, therefore, any objection to the bill if
you allow us to pay the same for these trade dollars as for other bullion."

This reply led to a long examination about silver at home and in foreign markets, and the objections
made to having two silver dollars, one coined for private persons, from bullion furnished by
them, and the other coined for the United States from bullion purchased by it.  This led to
a long colloquy between him and myself, in which all the laws relating to the subject and the
practice of the government, from its organization to that time, were discussed.

On the question whether United States notes ought still to be a legal tender, I referred him
to my report, in which I said:  "The power of Congress to make them such was asserted by Congress
during the war, and was upheld by the Supreme Court.  The power to reissue them in time of
peace, after they are once redeemed, is still contested in that court."

I soon found that Mr. Bayard and Mr. Beck were quite opposed to each other on this topic, and
I suggested that I thought that the argument upon it should be between them.  My own opinions
were sufficiently stated in the report in which I submitted to Congress whether the legal tender
should not be repealed as to all future contracts, and parties be left to stipulate the mode
of payment. I said that United States notes should still be receivable for all dues to the
government, and ample provision should be made to secure their redemption on demand.

The examination, or, rather, conference, took a wide range between the members of the committee
and myself.  Mr. Beck pressed me to express my opinion of the legal tender which was contained
in the bill introduced by him, providing for a mandatory legal tender of all forms of money.
I answered:

"I do not think, Mr. Senator, you ought to ask me that question, because that is a matter you
are called upon to decide and pass upon in your sphere as a Senator.  I would say, on the other
hand, that I do not think it ought to have any such effect.  I suppose, however, Mr. Bayard
would very frankly tell you what the intention of the resolution is."

Mr. Bayard then said:

"I know one thing:  That banks cannot compel me to receive their notes for debts due me, nor
can any man compel me to receive them. If the government owes me my salary, I think they could,
perhaps, pay me in the national bank notes, under the existing law, but you cannot compel the
payment of a debt between private parties with it."

I said:

"If you will allow me, I should like to amplify a little on one point:  I think if Congress
would take up this question of the modification of the legal tender note and make certain rules
of evidence (which would be clearly constitutional), which good lawyers undoubtedly approve,
declaring that where a contract is made between parties upon the basis of United States notes,
it shall be presumed by courts, in the affirmance of contracts, that the payment in United
States notes shall be a sufficient compliance therewith, and that, in the absence of any absolute
provision to the contrary, paper money, or promises to pay money, shall be a legal tender in
discharge of any obligation."

In respect to the cost of refunding, the next subject of inquiry, I was able to give them full
details, with all the orders of the treasury department from the 16th of January, 1878, until
the close of these operations in the summer of 1879.  Many of these details had not then been
published, but I furnished the fullest information available.  In response to an inquiry as
to the amount of commissions paid to the national banks on account of the sale of the four
per cent. bonds, a full table was exhibited of the subscriptions of, and commissions paid to,
the twenty-six national banks chiefly engaged in this business, in which the total amount of
sales made by them was shown to be $552,929,100, and the amount of commissions paid was $1,363,070.34.
In exhibiting these tables I said:

"Here is a table showing the sales and commissions of certain banks. I have taken all banks
who sold over $1,000,000.  There were twenty- six of them.  The First National Bank, having
been always connected with the national securities and having been the agent of the syndicate,
continued to be the agent of the foreign syndicate, and continued to have altogether the largest
business.  They sold of the four per cent. bonds $262,625,000.  The sales of the other banks
are kept here in the same way.  The Bank of New York (National Banking Association), I think,
was the next.  It sold $57,259,500. The National Bank of Commerce sold $51,684,000; the National
Bank of the State of New York sold $46,915,000, and so on down."

I called attention to the fact that in the last sale of about $200,000,000 four per cent. bonds,
we received one-half of one per cent. premium, or a million dollars, which nearly covered the
entire commissions paid to the twenty-six banks named.  Full details were given of the various
loans, and it was shown that the cost of selling the last loan was less expensive to the government,
in proportion to the amount sold, than any previous loan.

In reference to the sinking fund, about which I was asked my opinion, I said it was the same
old question that had been so often debated. I explained that a sinking fund is nothing but
an obligation or promise, on the part of the government or an individual, to pay a certain
amount annually of the principal of the debt in addition to the interest.  In this way the
debt is gradually liquidated and the annual interest lessened.  A sinking fund promised by
a government is nothing more or less than a name for the surplus revenue of the government.
A government without a surplus revenue cannot possibly have a sinking fund.  There is no way
to pay a debt except by having an income above your expenditures, and you can call your surplus
revenue a sinking fund if you choose.  I said that under existing law the department was required
to purchase one per cent. of the entire debt of the United States each fiscal year, and to
set the amount apart as a sinking fund, and to compute interest thereon to be added with the
amount to be subsequently purchased each year. This act can only be construed as an authority
to purchase the debt in case of surplus revenue for the purpose.

In practice, while keeping a book account with the sinking fund, we have reduced the debt by
the application of surplus revenue more rapidly than if the requirements of the sinking fund
had been literally complied with.  At several periods we, in fact, did not reduce the debt,
but actually increased it, and especially within the last two years, but in other years of
prosperity, when the revenues exceeded our expenditures, we were able to pay a much larger
amount of the debt than the sinking fund required by law.

Mr. Beck said:  "I propose to inquire pretty carefully, before we get through with this interview,
concerning the immense reduction of the public debt which has been made, of over $700,000,000,
from the highest point down to the present, so that we may be governed in the future taxation
by actual requirements of the public service." He expressed his wish, after he had carefully
examined the interview thus far, to continue it at a future day, but I was not again called upon.

During the entire period of this session of Congress the nomination for President by the Republican
national convention was naturally the chief subject of interest in political circles.  General
Grant returned from his voyage around the world arriving in San Francisco in December, 1879,
and from that time until he reached Washington his progress was a grand popular ovation.  He
had been received in every country through which he passed, especially in China and Japan,
with all the honors that could be conferred upon a monarch. He made no open declaration of
his candidacy, but it was understood that he was very willing to again accept the office of
President. His friends openly avowed their intention to support him, and answered the popular
objection against a third term by the fact that a term had intervened since he last held the
office.  Mr. Blaine was also an avowed candidate and had strong supporters in every part of
the Union.  My name was mentioned as a candidate, and it was generally supposed that one of
the three would be the nominee of the Republican convention.  I soon found that the fact that
I held an office which compelled me to express my opinions was a drawback rather than a benefit,
and, while I had the natural ambition to attain such a distinction, I was handicapped by my
official position.

The friends of General Grant succeeded in getting control of the national committee and could
dictate the time and place for holding the convention.  Senator Cameron was chosen chairman
of that committee.  He openly avowed his preference for the nomination of General Grant, and
exercised all his influence and power to promote it.  It was decided to hold the convention
on the 2nd of June, 1880, at Chicago.

The chief topic of all the newspapers and politicians was the merits and demerits of the three
candidates then recognized as the persons from whom the choice was to be made.  Every charge
against either the personal character or conduct of each was canvassed with the broadest license,
and often with great injustice.  The life and conduct of General Grant were analyzed, and praised
or blamed according to the bias of the speaker or writer.  Mr. Blaine always had a warm and
ardent support by the younger Republicans in every part of the United States.  His brilliant
and dashing manner and oratory made him a favorite with all the young and active politicians,
but, as he was a bold and active fighter, he had enemies as well as friends.  My strength and
weakness grew out of my long service in the House, Senate and cabinet, but, as my chief active
work was connected with the financial questions, upon which men of all parties differed widely,
I had to encounter the objections of all who were opposed to my views on these questions. 
The idea was that in the certain contest between Grant and Blaine I might be nominated, in
case either of them should fail to receive a majority of the votes cast in the convention.

It is scarcely worth while to point out the changes of opinion during the popular discussion
that preceded the meeting of the convention of which every newspaper was full, the discussion
being universal.  Votes were taken and expression of opinion sought in every community in the
United States.

My letter book at this time became a curious mixture of business and politics, so that I was
early compelled to ask two of my personal friends to take an office, which I furnished them
in the Corcoran building in Washington, to answer such letters as grew out of the contest,
and as a place where conferences could be held by persons interested in my nomination.  In
this way I severed all connection between my duties in the treasury and the necessary correspondence
caused by my being named as a candidate for President.  I was at once charged in the newspaper
and even by personal letters, with all sorts of misdemeanors, of which I was not guilty, but
which I felt it a humiliation to reply to or even to notice.  Among the first was a statement
that in some way or other I was under the influence of the Catholic church, and was giving
Catholics an undue share of appointments.  My answer is here inserted, not as important, but
as a specimen of many such communications upon various subjects:

  "March 1, 1880.
"My Dear Sir:--Your note of the 20th is received.

"I appreciate your kindness and frankness and will be equally frank with you.

"There is not one shadow of ground for the suspicion stated by you. I was born, bred, educated
and ingrained as a Protestant and never had any affinity, directly or indirectly, with the
Catholic church, but share the common feelings and prejudices of Protestants against the special
dogmas and rites of that church.  Still I believe the Catholics have as good a right to their
opinions, their mode of worship, and religious belief as we have, and I would not weaken or
impair the full freedom of religious belief, or make any contest against them on account of
it for all the offices in Christendom. I have no sympathy whatever with the narrow dogmatic
hate and prejudice of Mr. Cowles on this subject, though no doubt much of this is caused by
the unfortunate fact that his daughter has become a Catholic, and I am charitable enough to
take this into consideration when thinking of him.  Mrs. General Sherman, it is true, is a
Catholic.  She was born so and will remain so.  She is a good Catholic, however, in good wishes
and good works, but has also too much of the dogmatism and intolerance of a sectarian for my
ideas. She neither claims to have nor has any sort of influence over me.

"It is a mean business to get up such a prejudice against me when men are so ashamed of it
that they are afraid to avow it.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. Geo. H. Foster, Cleveland, Ohio."

Another allegation made was that I was using the patronage of my office to aid in my nomination.
In regard to this I wrote as follows to a friend:

"I think the impression has been made upon the public mind that the patronage of this department
has been used in my favor.  This ought to be met.  Of the two men who parcel out the patronage
of this department, one, General Raum, commissioner of internal revenue, is a known personal
friend of General Grant, appointed by him, and the great majority of the officers under that
bureau are believed to be for General Grant.  I have not sought to control any of them. McCormick,
my first assistant secretary, was a known Blaine man. The second, Hawley, was a known personal
friend of General Grant, and recently resigned to run for nomination as Governor of Illinois.
McPherson, a known Blaine man, was chief of the bureau of engraving and printing, which employs
some seven hundred people.  The officers named have practically made all the appointments in
the treasury other than the presidential ones.  Probably no one who ever held my position has
ever been so utterly indifferent to the distribution of patronage, except that I always insisted
that good Republicans should be appointed to every position, small or great.  I never inquired
who they were for for President.  In official letters, a copy of one of which I could furnish
you if desired, I gave distinct instructions that I would not permit anyone to remain in the
service who was making himself obnoxious to citizens generally, by pressing my claims or advocating
my nomination for President by the next national convention, or by opposing me."

I also soon learned that nearly every applicant whose appointment I could not give or secure
harbored this as a reason why I should not be nominated for President, and in three or four
cases where the applicants were men of influence they opposed the selection of delegates friendly
to me.  I do not mention any names, for most of these gentlemen, years afterwards, became my
warm friends.

I early announced that unless the State of Ohio would give me a substantial indorsement, my
name would not be presented to the convention.  James S. Robinson was the chairman of the state
committee and A. L. Conger was a prominent member.  They disagreed as to the time of holding
the state convention for the appointment of delegates to the national convention, which my
friends were anxious to have at as early a period as possible, so that the position of Ohio
might be known to, and possibly influence the action of, other states.  The disagreement between
these two gentlemen resulted in a postponement of the convention until a period so late that
before it met most of the delegations were selected by the other states.  That was thought
to be inimical to my success, and led to ill-will and contention.  Governor Dennison and Governor
Foster had frankly and openly avowed their purpose to support my nomination, and actively did
so.  They advised me of the condition of opinion from time to time, and early represented that
I might reasonably expect the support of all the districts, except perhaps those represented
by Garfield and McKinley, and the Toledo district.

I went to Mansfield on private business about the latter part of March, and as usual was called
upon to make a speech, which I did, at Miller's Hall, on the 31st of March, and which was reported
in full at the time.  I stated my position in regard to the nomination, as follows:

"By the course of recent events, and not by my own seeking, my name is mentioned among those
from whom the Republican party will select one to carry its banner in the approaching presidential
contest. It is not egotistic to state this fact, and it would not be manly to shrink from the
criticism and scrutiny which such a choice necessarily invites and provokes.

"I accepted the position without a pretense of mock modesty, because I do not think it right
to allow friends to put themselves to trouble on my account without a frank avowal that I was
willing to accept, and without delaying until certain of success; but with a firm determination
not to detract from the merits or services of others, nor to seek this lofty elevation by dishonorable
means or lying evasions or pretense.  In this way, and in this way only, am I a candidate;
but with great doubt whether, if nominated, I would meet the expectation of friends, and resolved
in case of failure that I will abide, cheerfully and kindly, by the choice of the convention.

"There is one condition, scarcely necessary to state, upon which my candidacy depends, and
that is, if the Republicans of Ohio do not fairly and fully, in their convention, express a
preference for me, and support me with substantial unanimity in the national convention, my
name will not be presented to that convention with my consent.

"This, fellow-citizens, is about all, and is perhaps more than I ought to say about personal
matters, for in the great contest in which we are about to engage, the hopes, ambitions, and
even the lives, of men, are of but little account compared with the issues involved."

I proceeded, then, to discuss the political questions of the day.

During the month of April delegates were selected from the different congressional districts
of the state to attend the state convention, to meet on the 28th of that month.  Prior to the
convention the question of the nomination was the subject of discussion in every district.
The sentiment in my favor was clearly expressed in nearly every county or district of the state.
On the 8th of April I wrote the following letter to a friend:

"McKinley is still in Ohio, and I presume will be there for some days.  I have to-day written
to him at Canton covering the points you name.  You had better write to him yourself giving
the list of appointments desired.

"There is a strong feeling that Garfield, in order to save his district, should go to the Chicago
convention as a delegate.  He is placed in a very awkward attitude now.  If this district should
be against my nomination it would be attributed to either want of influence on his part, or,
what is worse, a want of sincerity in my support.  In view of the past this would be a very
unfortunate thing for him.  This is a delicate matter for me to take any part in, and I leave
it entirely to your good judgment and kind friendship."

While in Ohio I had a consultation, at Columbus, with Governor Foster, ex-Governor Dennison,
and a number of other personal friends, all of whom expressed great confidence that by the
time the state convention met, the friendly feeling in favor of Blaine, in some of the districts
of Ohio, would be waived in deference to the apparent wishes of the great majority.  In that
event, in case my nomination should prove impracticable, the whole delegation could be very
easily changed to Mr. Blaine.  As to General Grant, though he had many warm personal friends
in Ohio, yet, on account of objections to a third term, very few desired his nomination.

Prior to the state convention I had an interview with General Garfield which he sought at my
office in the department, and he there expressed his earnest desire to secure my nomination
and his wish to be a delegate at large, so that he might aid me effectively. He had been chosen,
with little or no opposition, United States Senator, to fill the place of Thurman, whose term
expired March 4, 1881.  I had not a doubt of the support of Governor Foster, with whom I had
been in close correspondence, and who expressed a strong desire for my nomination.  I was permitted
practically to name the four delegates at large, and had implicit confidence that these delegates
would take the lead in my behalf.

The state convention, which met on the 28th of April, was exceptionally large, and was composed
of the leading Republicans of Ohio, who proceeded at once to the business before them.  The
persons named by the convention as delegates at large to the national convention, to assemble
in Chicago on June 2, were William Dennison, James A. Garfield, Charles Foster and Warner M.
Bateman, who were instructed for me.  The following resolution of the convention expressed
the preference of the Republicans of Ohio in favor of my nomination, and recommended that the
vote of the state be cast for me:

"Resolved, That the great ability, invaluable services, long experience, full and exalted character,
and unwavering fidelity to Republican principles of our distinguished fellow-citizen, John
Sherman, entitle him to the honors and confidence of the Republican party of Ohio, and of the
country.  His matchless skill and courage as a financier have mainly contributed to accomplish
the invaluable and difficult work of resumption and refunding the public debt, and made him
the trusted representative, in public life, of the business interests of all classes of the
American people.  He has been trained from the beginning of his public life in advocacy of
the rights of man, and no man has been more unfaltering in his demand that the whole power
of the government should be used to protect the colored people of the south from unlawful violence
and unfriendly local legislation.  And in view of his services to his country, and his eminent
ability as a statesman, we, the Republican party of Ohio, present him to the Republican party
of the country, as a fit candidate for president, and respectfully urge upon the Republican
convention at Chicago, his nomination, and the district delegates are respectfully requested
to vote for his nomination."

The trend of public sentiment, as shown by the newspaper, indicated that Grant and Blaine would
each have a very strong following in the national convention, but that the contest between
them might lead to my nomination.  After the state convention, it was generally assumed that
I would receive the united vote of the delegation in conformity with the expression of opinion
by the convention.  During this period a few leading men, whose names I do not care to mention,
made a combination of those unfriendly to me, and agreed to disregard the preference declared
by the state convention.

During the month of May the feeling in my favor increased, and many of the leading papers in
New York and in the eastern states advocated my nomination as a compromise candidate.

At this time I was in constant communication with General Garfield, by letters and also by
interviews, as we were both in Washington. On the 10th of May he wrote me:

"I think it will be a mistake for us to assume a division in the Ohio delegation.  We should
meet and act as though we were of one mind, until those delegates who are hostile to you refuse
to act with us, and if we fail to win them over, the separation will be their act, not ours."

The national convention met June 2, 1880.  It was called to order in the Exposition Hall, Chicago,
by Senator J. Donald Cameron, and a temporary organization, with Senator George F. Hoar as
president, was soon perfected.  An effort was made by the friends of General Grant to adopt
the unit rule, which would allow a majority of each state to determine the vote of the entire
delegation.  This was rejected.

Four days were occupied in perfecting the permanent organization, and the nomination of candidates
for President.  During this time a minority of nine of the delegation of Ohio announced their
determination to vote for Blaine.  This was a fatal move for Blaine, and undoubtedly led to
his defeat.  Nearly four-fifths of the delegation were in favor of my nomination, in pursuance
of the express wishes of the Ohio convention, but they were all friendly to Blaine, and whenever
it should have become apparent that my nomination was impracticable, the whole delegation could
easily have been carried for him without a division, and thus have secured his nomination.
The action of those nine delegates, who refused to carry out the wishes of the state convention,
prevented the possibility of the vote of Ohio being cast for Mr. Blaine.

Long before the convention I had declared, in a published interview, that "Blaine is a splendid
man, able and eminently fit for President. If nominated he will find no one giving him a heartier
support than myself."  We were connected by early ties of association and kinship, and had
been and were then warm friends.  Blaine, when confident of the nomination, said of me:  "To
no living man does the American people owe a deeper debt of gratitude than to John Sherman,
for giving them resumption with all its blessings.  As Secretary of the Treasury he has been
the success of the age.  He is as eminently fit for President as any man in America, and should
he be nominated all I am capable of doing will be done to aid in his election. Should it be
my fortune to become President, or should it fall to the lot of any Republican, no one elected
could afford to do less than invite Secretary Sherman to remain where he is."  The folly of
a few men made co-operation impracticable.  I received opposition in Ohio from his pretended
friends, and he therefore lost the Ohio delegation, which, but for this defection, would have
made his nomination sure had I failed to receive it.

The speech of General Garfield nominating me has always been regarded as a specimen of brilliant
eloquence rarely surpassed, the close of which I insert:

"You ask for his monuments. The great fiscal affairs of the nation, and the great business
interests of our country, he has preserved, while executing the law of resumption and effecting
its object, without a jar, and against the false prophecies of one-half the press and all the
Democracy of this continent.

On the first ballot 9 of the Ohio delegation voted for Mr. Blaine, 34 for me, and 1 for Edmunds.
The general result was 304 for Grant, 284 for Blaine, 93 for Sherman, 34 for Edmunds, 30 for
Washburne, 10 for Windom.  The vote of my friends would have nominated Blaine at any period
of the convention, but under the conditions then existing it was impossible to secure this
vote to either Blaine or Grant.

The final result was the selection of a new candidate and the nomination of Garfield.

It is probable that if I had received the united vote of the Ohio delegation I would have been
nominated, as my relations with both General Grant and Mr. Blaine were of a friendly character,
but it is hardly worth while to comment on what might have been.  The course of the Ohio delegation
was the object of severe comment, and perhaps of unfounded suspicions of perfidy on the part
of some of the delegates.

As soon as I heard of the movement to nominate Garfield I sent the following telegram to Mr.
Dennison:

  "Washington, June 8, 1880.
"Hon. William Dennison, Convention, Chicago, Ill.

"Whenever the vote of Ohio will be likely to assure the nomination of Garfield, I appeal to
every delegate to vote for him.  Let Ohio be solid.  Make the same appeal in my name to North
Carolina and every delegate who has voted for me.

  "John Sherman."

The moment the nomination was made I sent the following dispatch to Garfield at Chicago:

  "Washington, June 8, 1880.
"Hon. James A. Garfield, Chicago, Ill.

"I congratulate you with all my heart upon your nomination as President of the United States.
You have saved the Republican party and the country from a great peril, and assured the continued
success of Republican principles.

  "John Sherman."

I understood that the health of Governor Dennison, who had faithfully represented me in the
national convention, was somewhat impaired by his confinement there, and invited him to join
me in a sail on the Chesapeake Bay, spending a few days at different points.  He accepted and
we had a very enjoyable trip for about ten days.

During this trip I wrote, for the 4th of July issue of the New York "Independent," an article
on Virginia and state rights.  I had promised to do this some time before but could not find
an opportunity, and availed myself of the quiet of the cruise to fulfill my promise. The history
of Virginia has always had for me a peculiar interest, mainly because of the leading part taken
by that state in the American Revolution.  The great natural resources of the state had been
neglected, the fertility of the soil on the eastern shore had been exhausted, and no efforts
had been made to develop the vast mineral wealth in the mountains along its western border.
The destruction of slavery and the breaking up of the large farms and plantations had discouraged
its people, and I thought, by an impartial statement of its undeveloped resources, I might
excite their attention and that of citizens of other states to the wealth under its soil. 
This article, written in a friendly spirit, excited the attention and approval of many citizens
of the state, and brought me many letters of thanks.

In time I became thoroughly advised of what occurred at the Chicago convention and had become
entirely reconciled to the result, though frequently afterwards I heard incidents and details
which occasioned me great pain and which seemed to establish the want of sincerity on the part
of some of the delegates, and tended to show that for some time before the meeting of the convention
the nomination of General Garfield had been agreed upon.  After its close I had numerous letters
from delegates of other states, complaining bitterly of the conduct of the Ohio delegation
and giving this as a reason why they had not voted for me.  I was assured that large portions
of the Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, and other delegations, had notified General
Foster that they were ready to vote for me whenever their vote was required, but no such request
came from him.  The matter had been made the subject of public discussion in the newspapers.
I was content with the result, but was deeply wounded by what I could not but regard as a breach
of faith on the part of some of the Ohio delegation, and especially of Governor Foster, who
had been fully advised of my feelings in regard to his course.  I received a letter from him,
on the 23rd of June, answering the allegations that had been publicly made in regard to him,
and explaining his action.  In reply I wrote him the following letter:

  "Washington, D. C., June 30, 1880.
"Dear Sir:--Your letter of the 23rd came while I was still absent
on the Chesapeake Bay.  I regret that I did not see you, for a free
conversation would be far more satisfactory than letter writing.

"I wish to be perfectly frank with you, as since I first became acquainted with you I have
felt for you warm friendship, and have always had entire confidence in you.  I confess, however,
that the information I received in regard to your operations at Chicago had greatly weakened
this feeling and left a painful impression upon my mind that you had not done by me as I would
have done by you under like circumstances.  Your letter chased away much of this impression,
and, perhaps, the better way would be for me to write no more, but to treat your letter as
entirely satisfactory and conclusive.  Still I think it right for me to give you the general
basis of the impressions I had formed.

"My first impulse was to send you at once a mass of letters from delegates and others attending
the convention, but this would only create a controversy, and, perhaps, betray confidence,
which I could not do.  The general purport of these letters is that, while you spoke freely
and kindly of me, yet there was always a kind of reserve in favor of Blaine and a hesitation
in pressing me that indicated a divided opinion, that partly by the divisions in the Ohio delegation
and partly by the halfway support of yourself, and, perhaps others, the Ohio delegation lost
its moral strength and, practically, defeated me before any ballot was had.

"This general impression I could have passed by, but it was distinctly stated to me, by delegates
and friends of delegates present at the convention, that they proffered the votes of large
portions of their respective delegations to you with the understanding that they were to be
cast for me whenever you indicated the proper moment.  This was specifically said as to Indiana,
Massachusetts, Connecticut and the Blaine portion of the Pennsylvania delegation. It was said
that you prevented Massachusetts from voting for me from about the tenth to the fifteenth ballot
on Monday, that nine of the Connecticut delegates held themselves ready to vote for me on your
call, but that you put it off, and Harrison is quoted as saying that twenty-six votes from
Indiana were ready to be cast for me on Monday, at any time after a few ballots, but they were
withheld on account of representations from the Ohio delegation. Mr. Billings, of Vermont,
is quoted as saying that the Vermont delegation, with two or three exceptions, were ready to
vote for me, but were discontented with the position taken by you, and doubted whether you
desired their vote for me.

"These and many other allegations of similar import, coming one after the other, led me to
believe that you had changed the position you took in the early part of the canvass, and had
come to the conclusion that it was not wise to nominate me, and that other arrangements for
your future influenced you in changing your opinion. This impression caused me more pain than
anything that has transpired since the beginning of the contest.

"I assure you I have no regrets over the results of the convention. Indeed, the moment it was
over, I felt a sense of relief that I had not had for six months.

"The nomination of Garfield is entirely satisfactory to me.  The only shade that rests on this
feeling is the fact that Garfield went there by my selection to represent me and comes from
the convention with the honor that I sought.  I will do him the justice to say that I have
seen no evidence that he has contributed to this result except by his good conduct in the presence
of the convention. I had always looked with great favor upon the contingency that if I was
not nominated after a fair and full trial and Blaine was, you would be the candidate for the
Vice Presidency, and had frequently said to mutual friends that this was my desire.  The contingency
of Garfield's nomination I did not consider, for I supposed that as he was secure in the Senate
for six years, he would not desire the presidential nomination, but as it has come to him without
his self-seeking it is honorable and right and I have no cause of complaint.  If I believed
that he had used the position I gave him to supplant me, I would consider it dishonorable and
would not support him; but, while such statements have been made to me, I feel bound to say
that I have never seen nor heard from credible sources any ground for such an imputation, and,
therefore, he shall have my earnest and hearty support.

"There are one or two features of this canvass that leave a painful impression upon me.  The
first is that the opposition to me in Ohio was unreasonable, without cause, either springing
from corrupt or bad motives, or from such trivial causes as would scarcely justify the pouting
of a schoolboy.

"I receive your frank statement with confidence and act upon it, will treat you, as of old,
with hearty good will and respect, and will give no further credence to the stories I hear.
You can have no knowledge of the extent of the accusations that have been made against you.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. Charles Foster, Columbus, Ohio."

With this letter I sought to divest myself of all feeling or prejudice growing out of the recent
canvass.

At the close of the fiscal year and the preparation of the usual statements made at that time,
there was a period of rest, of which I availed myself by taking an excursion along our northeastern
coast.  The quiet of the voyage, the salt air, and the agreeable companions, were a great relief
from the confinement and anxiety of the previous months.  Upon my return to New York from this
outing, on the 19th of July, I found two letters from General Garfield, both relating to the
progress of the canvass, and asking my opinion of his letter of acceptance.  In reply I wrote him:

  "New York, July 19, 1880.
"My Dear Sir:--Your letter of the 16th was received by me this
morning.  When I left Washington, about the 1st of July, I felt
very much debilitated by the heat and by the long mental struggle
through which I had passed.  I have had the benefit now of three
weeks quiet and rest, mostly on the ocean, avoiding, whenever
possible, all political talk, and feel, in consequence, greatly
refreshed and invigorated.  I take the outward voyage via Fortress
Monroe to Washington, arriving there on Thursday.

"I received the telegraphic invitation to speak at Chicago but could not accept, as I must
give some relief to French and Upton upon my return.

"I have received letters and telegrams from Nash about his proposed canvass, and highly approve
it.  I do not see, however, how it is possible for me to prepare a speech during the present
month.  I now propose to write a political letter in response to one from Chicago, which I
believe will have a wider circulation than a campaign speech.  During the latter part of August
or the first of September, which is as early as the active campaign ought really to commence,
I will be prepared to make several speeches in Ohio, and, perhaps, in other states.  This is
my present plan.  I regard Indiana and New York as the pivotal states, and there the struggle
should be.

"Your letter of acceptance I approve heartily, although I thought you yielded a little too
much in one or two sentences on the civil service question.  Although politicians have undertaken
to ridicule and belittle the efforts of President Hayes to bring about some sort of civil service
reform, yet the necessity of such a reform is so ingrafted in the minds of the leading sensible
people of the northern states that anything like an abandonment of that idea will not meet
favor.  I agree with you that it can only be done by the co-operation of Congress, and it would
be a great stroke of public policy if Congress could be prevailed upon to pass a law prescribing
a reasonable tenure for civil office, with such guards against arbitrary removals as would
make the incumbents somewhat independent in their opinions and actions.  I had a conversation
with Fletcher Harper, at Long Beach, on Saturday, which leads me to think that he is anxious
upon this subject and also upon the financial question.

"The silver law threatens to produce within a year or so a single silver standard, and already
there is a feeling of uneasiness in New York as to whether we can maintain resumption upon
the gold standard while the silver law remains.  I could at any moment, by issuing silver freely,
bring a crisis upon this question, but while I hold my present office I certainly will not
do so, until the gold reserve is practically converted into silver, a process that is going
on now at the rate of nearly two millions a month.  I have no fear, however, of being forced
to this issue during my term, and I hope Congress will come together next winter in such temper
that it may arrest the coinage of the silver dollar, if it will not change the ratio.  This
question, however, is a very delicate one to discuss in popular assemblages, and I propose,
therefore, in my speeches, to make only the faintest allusions to it, not surrendering, however,
our views upon the subject, for upon this, I take it, we are entirely agreed.

"I feel very hopeful of success.  In this state business men are generally satisfied, and your
support is so strong that, even if inclined, the Conkling Republicans will not dare oppose
or shirk the contest.  I hear different stories about Conkling, but believe that in due time
he will do what he can, though his influence is greatly overrated.  A too active support by
him would excite the prejudices of hosts of people here who are determined not to follow where
he leads.

  "Very sincerely yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. James A. Garfield, Mentor, O."

After the 19th of July I was at my desk, busily engaged in the routine duties of my office,
until, in accordance with the following request of General Garfield, I visited New York to
attend a conference of Republicans, as to the conduct of the pending canvass:

  "Mentor, O., July 31, 1880.
"Dear Mr. Sherman:--I understand that the national Republican
committee have asked you to meet with them for consultation, in
New York, on the 5th prox.

"At their unanimous and urgent request, I have reluctantly consented to attend, but I shall
esteem it a great favor if you will also go.

  "Very truly yours,
  "J. A. Garfield.
"Hon. John Sherman, Washington, D. C."

More than two hundred prominent Republicans from all parts of the country met on the 5th of
August, among whom were Senators Blaine and Logan, Marshall Jewell, Thurlow Weed, and Edwards
Pierrepont. I was called upon to make an address.  The only passage I wish to quote is this:

"The Republican party comes before the business men of this country --with all its evidences
of reviving prosperity everywhere--and asks whether they will resign all these great affairs
to the solid south, headed by Wade Hampton and the Ku-Klux Klan, and a little segment of these
northern states, calling themselves the Democratic party."

More than a month afterwards, Governor Hampton wrote me a letter complaining of my connecting
him with the "Ku-Klux Klan," and the following correspondence ensued:

  "Doggers' Springs, September 17, 1880.
"To Hon. John Sherman, Secretary of the Treasury.

"Sir:--Some days ago I saw a report of your speech at a conference held by the national Republican
committee, at the Fifth Avenue Hotel, New York, and you were quoted as having used the following
language:  'And now you are asked to surrender all you have done into the hands of Wade Hampton
and the Ku-Klux, and the little segment in the north that is called the Democratic party.'
May I ask if you used these words, and, if you did so, did you mean to connect me, directly
or indirectly, with what was known as the Ku- Klux Klan?

"Requesting an early reply, addressed to me, care of Augustus Schell, Esq., New York, I am,
very respectfully, your obedient servant,

  "Wade Hampton."

  "Washington, D. C., September 21, 1880.
"Hon. Wade Hampton, care of Augustus Schell, Esq., New York.  I no doubt spoke of you
as the leading representative of the Democratic party in the south,
and referred to the Ku-Klux Klan as the representative of the
barbarous agencies by which the Democrats have subverted the civil
and political rights of the Republicans of the south.

"I did not connect you personally with the Ku-Klux Klan.  Indeed, I knew that you had, in one
or two important instances, resisted and defeated its worst impulses.  I appreciate the sense
of honor which makes you shrink from being named in connection with it. Still, you and your
associates, leading men in the south, now enjoy benefits of political power derived from the
atrocities of the Ku- Klux Klan, in which phrase I include all the numerous aliases by which
it has, from time to time, been known in the south.  Your power in the southern states rests
upon the actual crimes of every grade in the code of crimes--from murder to the meanest form
of ballot-box stuffing committed by the Ku-Klux Klan and its kindred associates, and, as you
know, some of the worst of them were committed since 1877, when you and your associates gave
the most solemn assurance of protection to the freedmen of the south.

"These crimes are all aimed at the civil political rights of Republicans in the south, and,
as I believe, but for these agencies, the very state that you represent, as well as many other
states in the south, would be represented, both in the Senate and House, by Republicans.  But
for these crimes the boast attributed to you, that one hundred and thirty-eight solid southern
votes would be cast for the Democratic ticket, would be but idle vaporing; but now we feel
that it is a sober truth.

"While I have no reason to believe that you or your northern associates personally participated
in the offenses I have named, yet, while you and they enjoy the fruits of these crimes, you
may, in logic and morals be classed as I classed you, as joint copartners with the Ku-Klux
Klan in the policy which thus far has been successful in seizing political power in the south,
and which it is hoped, by the aid of the small segment of the Democratic party in the north,
may be extended to all the departments of the government.  It is in this sense that I spoke
of you, the Ku-Klux Klan and the northern Democratic party.

"Permit me, in conclusion, while frankly answering your question, to say the most fatal policy
for the south would be by such agencies as I have mentioned to secure again political ascendency
in this country, for I assure you that the manhood and independence of the north will certainly
continue the struggle until every Republican in the south shall have free and unrestricted
enjoyment of equal civil and political privileges, including a fair vote, a fair count, free
speech and free press, and agitation made necessary to secure such results may greatly affect
injuriously the interests of the people of the south.

  "Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
  "John Sherman."

  "Charlottesville, Va., October 1, 1880.
"To Hon. John Sherman.

"Sir:--Your letter has been received.  As you do not disclaim the language to which I called
your attention, I have only to say that in using it you uttered what was absolutely false,
and what you knew to be false.  My address will be Columbia, S. C.

  "I am your obedient servant,
  "Wade Hampton."

  "Treasury Department,                }
  "Washington, D. C., October 18, 1880.}
"To Hon. Wade Hampton, Columbia, S. C.

"I have to acknowledge the receipt of your note of the 1st inst., handed me unopened by Mr.
C. McKinley, a few moments ago, after my return from the west.  I had this morning read what
purported to be an extract of a speech made by you, published in the Charleston 'News and Courier,'
and upon your general reputation as a gentleman had denied that you had made such a speech
or written such a letter as is attributed to you in that paper.  What I stated to you in my
letter of September 21, I believe to be true, notwithstanding your denial, and it can be shown
to be true by public records and as a matter of history.  As you had, long before your letter
was delivered to me, seen proper to make a public statement of your views of the correspondence,
I will give it to the press without note or comment, and let the public decide between us.

  "Very respectfully,
  "John Sherman."

This correspondence excited a good deal of attention, and broke off all social relations between
us.  We afterwards served for many years in the Senate together, but had no intercourse with
each other except formal recognition while I was president of the Senate. I always regretted
this, for I did not feel the slightest enmity to General Hampton, and recognized the fact that
while enjoying the office he held as the result of the crimes of the Klan, yet he and his colleague,
M. C. Butler, were among the most conservative and agreeable gentlemen in the Senate, and the
offenses with which I connected his name were committed by his constituents and not by himself.

During July and August I received many invitations to speak on political topics, but declined
all until about the 1st of September. In anticipation of the election of Garfield, and his
resignation as Senator, I was, as early as July, tendered the support of several members of
the legislature who had voted for him for Senator, and who wished to vote for me in case he
resigned.  I replied that I would prefer the position of Senator to any other, that I resigned
my seat in the Senate to accept the office of Secretary of the Treasury, and would be gratified
by a return to my old position, but only in case it came to me as the hearty choice of the
general assembly.  During the month of August the two assistant secretaries, who had been for
a year confined to the department and upon whom the duties of secretary had devolved during
my recent absence, went on their usual vacation, so that I was fully occupied during office
hours with the routine business of the department.

My first speech of the campaign was made on Monday, the 30th of August, in Cincinnati.  It
was carefully prepared, and delivered in substance as printed.  My habit has been for many
years, at the beginning of a political canvass, to write or dictate a speech and hand it to
the press associations, to be printed in the newspapers only after the speech is made.  This
is done for the convenience of the press and to secure an accurate report.  The speech at Cincinnati,
thus prepared, was not read by me, but I spoke from briefs which enabled me to substantially
follow it.  Subsequent speeches had to vary according to the nature and mood of the audience,
or the political subject exciting local interest and attention.  At Cincinnati I gave a comparison
of the principles, tendency, and achievements of the two great parties, and the reasons why
the Democratic party wanted a change in the executive branch of the government.  I contrasted
the aims and policy of that party, at each presidential election from 1860 to 1880, with those
of the Republican party, and expressed my opinion of the effects that would have followed their
success at each of those elections.  I stated in detail the results secured during the last
four years by the election of a Republican President.  These included the resumption of specie
payments, the refunding and the steady reduction of the public debt, the faithful collection
of the revenue, economy of public expenditures, and business prosperity for which I gave the
causes, all of which were opposed or denied by the Democratic party. I entered into detail
on the measures proposed by the then Democratic Congress, the motive of them, and the ruinous
effects they would produce, and alleged that the changes proposed were dictated by the same
policy that was adopted by Buchanan and the active leaders of the War of the Rebellion and
by the corrupt power that controlled the city of New York.  I replied to the charges of fraud
made as to the election of President Hayes, that the alleged fraud consisted in the judgment
of the electoral commission created by the Democrats that Hayes was duly elected.  I narrated
the gross crimes of the Ku-Klux Klan and kindred associations to control the elections in the
south, and the attempted bribery of an elector in Oregon.

This speech was arraigned as bitterly partisan, but it was justified by facts proven by the
strongest evidence.  I have recently carefully read it, and, while I confess that its tone
was bitter and partisan, yet the allegations were clearly justified.  At this time such fraud
and violence could not be practiced in the south, for the tendency of events has quieted public
sentiment.  The lapse of time has had a healing effect upon both sections, and it is to be
hoped that hereafter parties will not be divided on sectional lines.

The Cincinnati speech had one merit, in that it furnished speakers and the public the exact
statistics of our financial condition in advance of my annual report to Congress in December.
I made speeches each week day in Ohio and Indiana until the 11th of September, when I returned
to Washington.

The election in Maine, which occurred early in September, was unfavorable to the Republican
party, and caused General Garfield some uneasiness.  He wrote me the following letter:

  "Mentor, Ohio, September 17, 1880.
"Hon. John Sherman, Washington, D. C.

"My Dear Sir:--Yours of the 15th inst. is received.  I hear in many ways the same account which
you give of the cause of our falling off in Maine.  The latest news indicates that we have
carried the election after all, but our people claimed too much, and the moral effect of it
may be bad in some of the doubtful states.  Still, so far as I can see, every Republican is
more aroused and determined than ever.

"I think we should now throw all our force into Indiana and Ohio until the October election.
Indiana is now more thoroughly organized by our people than it has been for many years, and
I believe that nothing can defeat us, except importations and purchases by the Democracy. 
I have not known the Republicans of that state so confident in six years as they now are, and
every available help should be given them to win the fight.  I have learned certainly that
the Democrats intend to make a powerful raid upon Ohio, for the double purpose of beating us
if they can, and specially in hopes that they may draw off our forces in Indiana.

"I know you can accomplish a great deal, even while you are in Washington, but I hope you will
give as much time as possible to the canvass here and in Indiana--especially give us the last
ten days.

  "Very truly yours,
  "J. A. Garfield."

I replied on the 22nd of September that the assured election of Plaisted, the fusion electoral
ticket in Maine, and many things in my correspondence, made me feel exceedingly anxious about
the result of the election, that my advices from Ohio were not satisfactory, and I felt that
we must exert ourselves to the utmost to insure victory at our October election.  "I think
from my standpoint here," I said, "I can get more certain indications of public opinion than
anyone can while canvassing.  I therefore have determined to go to Ohio the latter part of
this week, and to devote the balance of the time, until the election, to the campaign."  I
also advised him that I had arranged to have several other speakers go to Ohio.

To this he replied:

  "Mentor, Ohio, September 25, 1880.
"My Dear Sir:--Yours of the 22nd inst. is received.  I am glad that
you are coming back to take part in the canvass.  Within the last
ten days it has become evident that money is being used in large
amounts in various parts of this state.  Reports of this come to
me in so many independent ways that I cannot doubt it.  I was in
Toledo on the 22nd to attend the reunion of the 'Army of the
Cumberland,' and my friends there were thoroughly alarmed.  They
said the Democrats had an abundance of money, and that those in
Toledo were contributing more than they had done for many years.

"I think our friends should push the business aspect of the campaign with greater vigor than
they are doing, especially the tariff question which so deeply affects the interests of manufacturers
and laborers.  The argument of the 'solid south' is well enough in its way, and ought not to
be overlooked, but we should also press those questions which lie close to the homes and interests
of our own people.

  "Very truly yours,
  "J. A. Garfield.
"Hon. John Sherman, Washington, D. C."

About this period I received an invitation to speak in New York, but doubted the policy of
accepting, and answered as follows:

  "Washington, D. C., September 20, 1880.
"My Dear Sir:--Your note of the 17th, inviting me to address the
citizens of New York, under the auspices of your club, during the
campaign, is received.  Please accept my thanks for the courteous
manner in which your invitation is expressed.

"I will be compelled to remain here until the 4th of October and then go to Ohio and Indiana
to engage in the canvass, which will carry me to the 15th or 16th of October.  I have been
urged also to go to Chicago and Milwaukee, and have made promises in several cities in the
eastern states, especially in Brooklyn; so that I do not see how it is possible for me to accept
your kind invitation. I have also some doubt whether it would be politic to do so.  It seems
to be the determination of a certain class of Republicans in New York to ignore or treat with
dislike President Hayes and his administration, and to keep alive the division of opinion as
to the removal of Arthur.  From my view of the canvass the strength of our position now is
in the honesty and success of the administration. While I have no desire to contrast it with
General Grant's, yet the contrast would be greatly in favor of President Hayes.  The true policy
is to rise above these narrow family divisions, and, without disparagement of any Republican,
unite in the most active and zealous efforts against the common enemy.  Senator Conkling does
not seem to have the capacity to do this, and the body of his following seems to sympathize
with him.  I doubt, therefore, whether my appearance in New York would not tend to make divisions
rather than to heal them, to do harm rather than good.  I am so earnestly desirous to succeed
in the election that I would even forgo a self- defense to advance the cause.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. B. F. Manierre, Ch. Rep. Central Campaign Club, New York."

On the first of October I left Washington for Mansfield and spoke at a mass meeting there on
Saturday evening, the 2nd.  The canvass on both sides was very active and meetings were being
held in all parts of the state.  The meeting at Mansfield held in the open square both in the
afternoon and evening, was very large.  I spoke each day except Sunday during the following
week, at different places in Ohio and Indiana.  Confidence in Republican success grew stronger
as the October election approached.  After the vote was cast it was found that the Republican
state ticket was elected by a large majority in both these states.  In pursuance of previous
engagements, I spoke at Chicago, Racine, and Milwaukee, after the October election.  The speeches
at Chicago and Milwaukee were reported in full and were circulated as campaign documents. 
During the latter part of the month of October I spoke at the city of Washington and in Bridgeport,
Norwalk and New Haven, Connecticut, and at Cooper Institute in the city of New York, and then
returned home to vote at the November election.

The result was the election of a large majority of Republican electors and the certainty of
their voting for Garfield and Arthur as President and Vice President of the United States.
I had done all that it was possible for me to do to bring about that result and rejoiced as
heartily as anyone, for I thoroughly believed in the necessity of maintaining Republican ascendency
in the United States, at least until a time when the success of the opposite party would not
endanger any of the national results of the war or the financial policy of President Hayes'
administration.

On the day after the election General Garfield wrote me the following letter:

  "Mentor, Ohio, November 4, 1880.
"My Dear Sir:--Yours of the 1st inst. came duly to hand, and was
read with much interest.  The success of the election is very
gratifying.  The distrust of the solid south, and of adverse
financial legislation, have been the chief factors in the contest.
I think also that the country wanted to rebuke the attempt of the
Democrats to narrow the issue to the low level of personal abuse.
I am sure that all our friends agree with me that you have done
very important and efficient work in the campaign.

"I may go to Washington before long to look after my personal affairs.  If I do not, I hope
to have some other opportunity of seeing you.

  "Very truly yours,
  "J. A. Garfield.
"Hon. John Sherman, Washington, D. C."

I received a letter from a Mr. Hudson, of Detroit, which expressed a fear that General Garfield
was in serious danger of assassination, giving particulars.  I sent it at once to Garfield,
and received from him the following answer, very significant in view of the tragedy that occurred
the following summer:

  "Mentor, O., November 16, 1880.
"My Dear Sir:--The letter of Mr. Hudson, of Detroit, with your
indorsement, came duly to hand.  I do not think there is any serious
danger in the direction to which he refers, though I am receiving
what I suppose to be the usual number of threatening letters on
that subject.  Assassination can no more be guarded against than
death by lightning; and it is not best to worry about either.  I
expect to go to Washington before long to close up some household
affairs, and I shall hope to see you.

  "With kind regard, I am, very truly yours,
  "J. A. Garfield.
"Hon. John Sherman, Washington, D. C."

Immediately after the election of General Garfield, and until the 18th of December, there was
a continuous discussion as to who should be the successor to Senator Thurman.  This was the
senatorship to which Garfield had been elected and now declined to fill.  I received many letters
from members of the legislature expressing their wish that I should be restored to the Senate,
and offering to vote for me.  They generally assumed that I would have the choice between remaining
in the treasury department under President Garfield and becoming a candidate for the Senate.
Among the letters received by me was one from Mr. Thorpe, a member from Ashtabula county, Ohio,
and a personal friend.  I thought it right to tell him frankly the dilemma in which I was placed
by the discussion in the papers. This letter expressed my feelings in regard to the matter
and I therefore insert it:

  "Washington, D. C., November 15, 1880.
"My Dear Sir:--Your letter of the 11th relieves me from some
embarrassment.  I am very thankful to you for the tender of your
services and continued hearty friendship.  I will avail myself of
it to tell you confidentially the difficulty under which I labor.

"The letter to Dalzell was not intended for publication, but was simply a hurried reply to
one of two or three long letters received from him.  Still the letter stated in substance my
feeling, and he probably intended no wrong but rather thought he would benefit me. Both before
and since, I have been overwhelmed with letters remonstrating against my leaving my present
position, as if I had any choice.

"As a matter of course, General Garfield must decide this without haste and free from all embarrassment,
but in the meantime I am at a loss what to do.  I cannot properly say to my correspondents
that I would stay in the treasury if invited to do so, nor can I ask gentlemen to commit themselves
until they know definitely what I wish.  I cannot afford to be a candidate unless I expect
to succeed. I believe, from information already received, that I can succeed, but only after
a struggle that is distasteful to me, and which I cannot well afford.  I can only act upon
the assumption that General Garfield will desire to make an entire change in his cabinet, and
upon that basis I would gladly return to the Senate as the only position I could hold, or,
if there was any doubt about election, I would cheerfully and without discontent retire from
public life. I have now at least a dozen unanswered letters on my table from members of the
legislature, tendering their services, and stating that I ought to explicitly inform them my
wishes, most of them assuming that I have a choice.  I intend to answer them generally that,
if elected, I would consider it the highest honor and I would then accept and serve.  So I
say to you:  If I enter the canvass I must depend upon my friends without being able to aid
them actively, and with every advantage in the possession of Foster. Such a contest, I see,
will open up trouble enough in the politics of Ohio, whatever may be the result.  With this
explicit statement you will understand best how to proceed.  I would regard the support of
Senator Perkins as of the utmost importance.  After awhile I can give you the names of a score
at least of others who avow their preference for me.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman.
"Hon. F. Thorpe, Geneva, O."

The letter to Dalzell referred to was hastily and carelessly written, without any expectation
of its publication.  It was as follows:

"To Hon. J. M. Dalzell, Caldwell, Ohio.

"My Dear Sir:--Your kind note of the 4th is received, for which please accept my thanks.  I
prefer to do precisely what you recommend, await the judgment of the general assembly of Ohio,
unbiased by any expression of my wish in the matter referred to.  I do not know what is the
desire of General Garfield, but I can see that my election might relieve him from embarrassment
and free to do as he thinks best in the formation of his cabinet.  Again thanking you for your
kind offer, I am very truly yours,

  "John Sherman."

The papers, while taking sides between Foster and myself, exaggerated the danger and importance
of the contest and thus unduly excited the public mind, for either of us would have cheerfully
acquiesced in the decision of the general assembly.  Strong appeals were made to Foster to
withdraw, especially after it was known that I would not be Secretary of the Treasury in the
incoming administration. No such appeals came to me, nor did I take any part in the controversy,
but maintained throughout the position taken in my letter to Mr. Thorpe.

In November, 1880, I was engaged in the preparation of my annual report sent to Congress December
6.  The ordinary receipts for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1880, were $333,526,610.98. 
The sinking fund for this year was $37,931,643.55, which, deducted from the amount applied
to the redemption of bonds, left an excess of $35,972,973.86 over the amount actually required
for the year. Compared with the previous fiscal year, the receipts for 1880 increased $62,629,438.23.
The increase of expenditures over the previous year was $25,190,360.48.  I estimated that the
receipts over expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1881, would be $50,198,115.52.

During the period from 1874 to 1879 the United States had failed to pay on the public debt
$87,317,569.21, that being the deficiency of the sum fixed by law to be paid during those years
for sinking fund.  Deducting from this sum the amount paid in excess for the fiscal year 1880,
there was a balance still due on account of the sinking fund of about $50,000,000.  This would
be met by the estimated surplus of receipts over expenditures during the fiscal year, 1881,
thus making good the whole amount of the sinking fund as required by law.

The estimated revenue over expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1862, including
the sinking fund, was $48,000,000.

Upon this favorable statement I recommended to Congress that instead of applying this surplus
revenue, accruing after the current fiscal year, to the extinction of the debt, taxes be repealed
or modified to the extent of such surplus.  A large portion of the surplus of revenue over
expenditures was caused by the reduction of the rate of interest and the payment on the principal
of the public debt. The reduction of annual interest caused by the refunding since March 1,
1877, was $14,290,453.50, and the saving of annual interest resulting from the payment of the
principal of the public debt since that date was $6,144,737.50.  The interest was likely to
be still further reduced during the following year, to an amount estimated at $12,000,000,
by the funding of the bonds.  To the extent of this annual saving, amounting to $32,000,000,
the public expenditures would be permanently diminished.

In view of this statement, I recommended that all taxes imposed by the internal revenue laws,
other than those on bank circulation and on spirits, tobacco and beer, be repealed.  I urged
that the tax on state banks should be maintained, not for purposes of revenue, but as a check
upon the renewal of a system of local state paper money, which, as it would be issued under
varying state laws, would necessarily differ as to conditions, terms and security, and could
not, from its diversity, be guarded against counterfeiting, and would, at best, have but a
limited circulation.

The public debt which became redeemable on and after the 1st of July, 1881, amounted to $687,350,000.
I recommended that to redeem these bonds there should be issued treasury notes running from
one to ten years, which could be paid off by the application of the sinking fund as they matured.
Such treasury notes would have formed a popular security always available to the holder as
they could have been readily converted into money when needed for other investment or business.
They would have been in such form and denominations as to furnish a convenient investment for
the small savings of the people, and fill the place designed by the ten dollar refunding certificates
authorized by the act of February 26, 1879. I stated my belief that with the then state of
the money market a sufficient amount of treasury notes, bearing an annual interest of three
per cent., could be sold to meet a considerable portion of the maturing bonds.

Congress did not pass such a law as I recommended, but the plan adopted and executed by my
successor, Mr. Windom, was the best that could have been devised under existing law, resulting
in a very large reduction of the amount paid for interest yearly.  He allowed the holders of
the maturing bonds to retain them at the pleasure of the government, with interest at the rate
of three and a half per cent.

I recited the action of the department under the resumption act, but this has already been
fully described by me.  In respect to the United States notes I said:

"United States notes are now, in form, security, and convenience, the best circulating medium
known.  The objection is made that they are issued by the government, and that it is not the
business of the government to furnish paper money, but only to coin money. The answer is, that
the government had to borrow money, and is still in debt.  The United States note, to the extent
that it is willingly taken by the people, and can, beyond question, be maintained at par in
coin, is the least burdensome form of debt.  The loss of interest in maintaining the resumption
fund, and the cost of printing and engraving the present amount of United States notes, is
less than one-half the interest on an equal sum of four per cent. bonds. The public thus saves
over seven million dollars of annual interest, and secures a safe and convenient medium of
exchange, and has the assurance that a sufficient reserve in coin will be retained in the treasury
beyond the temptation of diminution, such as always attends reserves held by banks."

I expressed the opinion that the existing system of currency, the substantial features of which
were a limited amount of United States notes (with or without the legal tender quality), promptly
redeemable in coin, with ample reserves in coin and power if necessary to purchase coin with
bonds, supplemented by the circulating notes of national banks issued upon conditions that
would guarantee their absolute security and prompt redemption, all based on coin of equal value,
and generally distributed throughout the country, was the best system ever devised, and more
free from objection than any other, combining the only safe standard with convenience for circulation
and security and equality of value.

After a statement of the amount of standard silver dollars issued under existing law, I described
the measures adopted to facilitate the general distribution and circulation of those coins,
and the great expense incurred by the United States in transporting them. With all these efforts
it was found difficult to maintain in circulation more than thirty-five per cent. of the amount
then coined.  While, at special seasons of the year and for special purposes, this coin was
in demand, mainly in the south, it returned to the treasury, and its reissue involved an expense
for transportation at an average rate of one-third of one per cent. each time.  Unlike gold
coin or United States notes, it did not, to the same extent, form a part of the permanent circulation,
everywhere acceptable, and, when flowing into the treasury, easily paid out with little or
no cost of transportation.  At a later period, when the amount of silver dollars had largely
increased, the department was never able to maintain in circulation more then $60,000,000.

For the reasons stated I earnestly recommended that the further compulsory coinage of the silver
dollar be suspended, or, as an alternative, that the number of grains of silver in the dollar
be increased so as to make it equal in market value to the gold dollar, and that its coinage
be left as other coinage to the Secretary of the Treasury, or the Director of the Mint, to
depend upon the demand for it by the public for convenient circulation.  After a statement
of the great cost of the coinage of these dollars, I recommended that Congress confine its
action to the suspension of the coinage of the silver dollar, and await negotiations with foreign
powers for the adoption of an international ratio.  I expressed the conviction that it was
for the interest of the United States, as the chief producer of silver, to recognize the great
change that had occurred in the relative market value of silver and gold in the chief marts
of the world, to adopt a ratio for coinage based upon market value, and to conform all existing
coinage to that ratio, while maintaining the gold eagle of our coinage at its present weight
and fineness.

I called attention, also, to the tariff as it then existed.  It was a compilation of laws passed
during many succeeding years, and to meet the necessities of the government from time to time.
These laws furnished the greater part of our revenue, and incidentally protected and diversified
home manufactures.  The general principle upon which they were founded was believed to be salutary.
No marked or sudden change, which would tend to destroy or injure domestic industries built
up upon faith in the stability of existing laws, should be made in them.  I recommended that
ad valorem duties should be converted into specific duties as far as practicable, and that
articles which did not compete with domestic industries, and yielded but a small amount of
revenue, should be added to the free list.  I urged the importance of stability in the rates
imposed on spirits, tobacco and fermented liquors.  These articles were regarded by all governments
as proper subjects of taxation.  Any reduction in the rates imposed a heavy loss to the owner
of the stock on hand, while an increase operated as a bounty to such owner.

During that year, the excess of exports over imports amounted to $167,683,912.  The aggregate
exports amounted to $835,638,658, an increase over the previous year of $125,199,217.

The usual statement of the operations of the different bureaus of the department was made,
and, in closing my last annual report as Secretary of the Treasury, I said:

"The secretary takes pleasure in bearing testimony to the general fidelity and ability of the
officers and employees of this department. As a rule they have, by experience and attention
to duty, become almost indispensable to the public service.  The larger portion of them have
been in the department more than ten years, and several have risen by their efficiency from
the lowest-grade clerks to high positions.  In some cases their duties are technical and difficult,
requiring the utmost accuracy; in others, they must be trusted with great sums, where the slightest
ground for suspicion would involve their ruin; in others, they must act judicially upon legal
questions affecting large private and public interests, as to which their decisions are practically
final.  It is a just subject of congratulation that, during the last year, there has been among
these officers no instance of fraud, defalcation, or gross neglect of duty.  The department
is a well organized and well conducted business office, depending mainly for its success upon
the integrity and fidelity of the heads of bureaus and chiefs of division.  The secretary has,
therefore, deemed it both wise and just to retain and reward the services of tried and faithful
officers and clerks.

"During the last twenty years the business of this department has been greatly increased, and
its efficiency and stability greatly improved.  This improvement is due to the continuance
during that period of the same general policy and the consequent absence of sweeping changes
in the public service; to the fostering of merit by the retention and promotion of trained
and capable men; and to the growth of the wholesome conviction in all quarters that training,
no less than intelligence, is indispensable to good service.  Great harm would come to the
public interests should the fruits of this experience be lost, by whatever means the loss occurred.
To protect not only the public service, but the people, from such a disaster, the secretary
renews the recommendation made in a former report, that provision be made for a tenure of office
for a fixed period, for removal only for cause, and for some increase of pay for long and faithful
service."

The chief measure of importance, aside from the current appropriation bills, acted upon during
that session of Congress was a bill to facilitate the refunding of the national debt.  It was
pending without action during the two preceding sessions, but was taken up in the early part
of the third session.  As the bill was originally reported, by Mr. Fernando Wood, from the
committee of ways and means of the House of Representatives, it provided that in lieu of the
bonds authorized by the refunding act of July 14, 1870, bearing five, four and a half, and
four per cent. interest, bonds bearing interest at the rate of three and a half per cent. to
the amount of $500,000,000, redeemable at the pleasure of the United States, and also notes
to the amount of $200,000,000, bearing interest at the rate of three and a half per cent.,
redeemable at the pleasure of the United States after two years and payable in ten years, be
issued.

The Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to issue any of these bonds or notes for any of
the bonds of the United States, as they became redeemable, par for par.  The bill further provided
that the three and a half per cents. should be the only bonds receivable as security for national
bank circulation.

Had this bill passed, as introduced, any time before the 4th of March, 1881, it would have
saved the United States enormous sums of money and would have greatly strengthened the public
credit.  It was in harmony with the recommendations made by the President and myself in our
annual reports.  It was called up in the House of Representatives for definite action on the
14th of December, 1880, when those reports were before them.  Instead of this action amendments
of the wildest character were offered, and the committee which reported the bill acquiesced
in radical changes, which made the execution of the law, if passed, practically impossible.
The rate of interest was reduced to three per cent., and a provision made that no bonds should
be taken as security for bank circulation except the three per cent. bonds provided for by
that bill. Discussion was continued in the House and radical amendments were made until the
19th of January, 1881, when the bill, greatly changed, passed the House of Representatives.
It was taken up in the Senate on the 15th of February.  Mr. Bayard made a very fair statement
of the terms and objects of the bill in an elaborate speech, from which I quote the following
paragraphs:

"In little more than sixty days from this date a loan of the United States, bearing five per
cent. interest, and amounting to $469,651,050, will, at the option of the government, become
payable.  On the 30th day of June next, two other loans, each bearing six per cent., the first
for $145,786,500, and the other $57,787,250, will also mature at the option of the government.
These facts are stated in the last report of the Secretary of the Treasury, and will be found
on page ten of his report of last December.  He has informed us that the surplus revenue accruing
prior to the 1st of July, 1881, will amount to about fifty million dollars, and can and will
be applied in part to the extinguishment of that debt.  Bonds maturing on the 31st of December
last were paid out of the accruing revenues. So that there will remain the sum of $637,350,000,
to be provided for and funded at the option of the government, at such rate of interest as
may be deemed advisable by Congress and can practicably be obtained.

"The sums that we are dealing with are enormous, affecting the welfare of every branch of our
country's industry and of our entire people.  The opportunity for reducing the rate of interest
upon this enormous sum, and, not only that, but of placing the national debt more under the
control of the government in regard to future payments, is now before us.  The opportunity
for doing this upon favorable terms should not be lost, and the only question before us, as
legislators, is how we can best and most practically take advantage of the hour."

The bill as modified by the committee of the Senate would have enabled the treasury department
to enter at once on the refunding of the public debt, and, in the then state of the money market,
there would have been no doubt of the ready sale of the bonds and notes provided for and the
redemption of the five and six per cent. bonds outstanding.  The Senate, however, after long
debates, disagreed to the amendments of the committee, and in substance passed the bill as
it came from the House.  The few amendments made were agreed to by the House, and the bill
passed and was sent to the President on the 1st of March.  On the 3rd of March it was returned
by the President with a statement of his objections to its passage.  These were based chiefly
on the provision which required the banks to deposit in the treasury, as security for their
circulating notes, bonds bearing three per cent. interest, which, in his judgment, was an insufficient
security. "Executive mansion, March 3, 1881."

Preceding this message, during the last week in February, there was a serious disturbance in
the money market, especially in connection with the national banks, caused by a fear that the
bill would become a law.  Appeals were made to me to furnish relief. All I could do was to
purchase $10,000,000 of bonds to be paid from an overflowing treasury, but the veto of the
President settled the fate of the bill.

In the latter part of November, 1880, General Garfield came to Washington and called upon Mr.
Blaine, who, it was understood, was to be Secretary of State.  Garfield came to my house directly
from Blaine's and informed me that he had tendered that office to Blaine and that it was accepted.
He said that Blaine thought it would not be politic to continue me as Secretary of the Treasury,
as it would be regarded as an unfriendly discrimination by other members of Hayes' cabinet.
I promptly replied that I agreed with the opinion of Blaine, and was a candidate for the Senate.
It was then understood that Garfield was committed to Foster for the vacancy in the Senate,
but this he denied, and, whatever might have been his preference, I am convinced he took no
part in the subsequent contest.

On the 16th of December, Thomas A. Cowgill, speaker of the House of Representatives, of Ohio,
wrote a note to Governor Foster advising his withdrawal "for harmony in our counsels and unity
in our action." On the next day, after advising with leading Republicans, Foster, in a manly
letter, declined further to be a candidate for Senator.

Prior to the withdrawal of Foster I received a note from General Garfield from Mentor, Ohio,
under date of December 15, 1880, in which he said:  "I am glad to see that the unpleasant matters
between yourself and Governor Foster have been so happily adjusted, and I am quite sure that
a little further understanding will remove all dangers of a personal contest, which might disturb
the harmony of the party in Ohio."

I subsequently received the following note from Garfield:

  "Mentor, O., December 22, 1880.
"My Dear Sir:--Yours of the 20th inst. came duly to hand.  I
appreciate what you say in reference to personal and Ohio appointments.
The case of Swaim is so exceptional that I hope it will not be
taken as a precedent for what is to come.  I am greatly gratified
at the happy turn which the relations between Foster and yourself
have taken.

"I will forward my declination of the senatorship in time to reach the general assembly on
the first day of its session.

"I hope you will not fail to visit me on your trip to Ohio.  Mrs. Garfield joins me in the
hope that Mrs. Sherman will accompany you.

  "Very truly yours,
  "J. A. Garfield.
"Hon. John Sherman, Washington, D. C."

In response to this and former requests I visited General Garfield at his residence at Mentor,
and discussed with him a multitude of subjects that he suggested, among them the selection
of his cabinet, and the public questions pending in Congress.

The proceedings in the Republican caucus, on the 11th of January, 1881, soon after the Ohio
legislature met, as narrated in the public press at the time, were exceedingly flattering.
General Jones, of Delaware, made the nominating speech, reciting at considerable length, and
with high praise, my previous public service.  Peter Hitchcock, a distinguished member, seconded
the nomination with another complimentary speech.  It was supposed that Judge W. H. West, a
leading lawyer and citizen, would be placed in nomination, but his spokesman, Judge Walker,
no doubt with the approval of Judge West, moved that my nomination be made unanimous, which
was done.  Upon being notified of this I sent the following telegram:

  "Washington, D. C., January 11, 1881.
"Hon. J. Scott, Chairman.

"Please convey to the Republican members of the two houses of the general assembly my heartfelt
thanks for their unanimous nomination for the position of United States Senator.  No words
can express my sense of grateful obligation to the people of Ohio for their long continued
partiality.  I can assure you that, if elected, I will, with diligence and fidelity, do my
utmost to discharge the duties assigned me.

  "John Sherman."

On the 18th of January I was duly elected Senator as successor of Allen G. Thurman, who received
the Democratic vote.

In accordance with an old custom in Ohio I went to Columbus on the 20th of January to return
my thanks to the legislature, and was received in the senate chamber by the two houses.  I
was escorted to a chair with Governor Foster on my right and Governor Dennison on my left,
Governor Foster presiding.  I was introduced by Governor Foster in a generous and eloquent
speech, closing as follows:

"Now, gentlemen, a year ago at this time we were here present to meet General Garfield, to
greet him as United States Senator, and to listen to his words of thanks for the great honor
conferred upon him.  We are met to-night for the purpose of greeting the Senator elected to-day,
and to listen to his words of thanks for the great honor conferred upon him.  This gentleman
has been in public life twenty-six years.  For six years he served as a Member of Congress
from the Mansfield district, with credit and with distinction. Thrice elected a United States
Senator before, for sixteen years he occupied the position of United States Senator, ever in
the front rank of the intellectual giants composing that body.  Called hence to be Secretary
of the Treasury, this distinguished gentleman has filled that place with honor.  He has been
at all times the friend of resumption and of the prosperity of the people.  To him, perhaps,
more than to any other one man, is due the resumption of specie payments and the prosperity
of this people to-day.  As a great financier he stands as a peer with Hamilton, with Chase.
Gentlemen, you have selected wisely and well.  I now have the pleasure of presenting John Sherman,
Senator-elect from the State of Ohio."

To this I responded, in part, as follows:

"Gentlemen, Senators, Members of the General Assembly:--My first duty is to return to you my
grateful thanks for the high honor you have conferred upon me in selecting me for the fourth
time a Member of the Senate of the United States.  Four years ago I assumed a somewhat different
office.  And now, having been honored by you by being transferred to the position formerly
occupied by me, I feel very much like a traveler who has made a long journey into a far distant
country and who is returning home in safety and honor. The place I now occupy has been one
of great embarrassment and difficulty.  I have been away from the people of my native state,
with but scarce a few fleeting, short visits, and have lost the acquaintances I have had with
so many of you, and have not been able to form new acquaintances among you.  I find among the
members of the general assembly but comparatively few of those whom I knew in the olden times.

"I assumed the duties of the office of which I speak under circumstances of great embarrassment.
I was held up before the public for a long time as one who was pursuing a policy that brought
woes unnumbered--greater than befell the Greeks between Achilles and Agamemnon.  All the evils
that fell upon society in the United States during the period, all the grave distress, was
simply attributed to me as a fault.  I was compelled to say 'No' a thousand times where I would
gladly have said 'Yes.'  I was compelled to decline the advice of men honestly given for a
good purpose, because in my judgment that advice would not promote the public good.  And now,
having been elected by you under those adverse circumstances, I feel my heart overflowing with
gratitude, and have no words with which to utter my thanks.  I am glad, however, of the assurance
you have given me by the unanimous nomination of my Republican friends, and by the courtesy,
kindness and forbearance of my adversaries.

"I am glad to know and feel the assurance that you now believe that, under the trying circumstances,
I did the best I could to advance the common interest of our common country.

"And I am glad to approve the votes that were given by my Democratic fellow-citizens here in
the contest yesterday and to-day.  If any man could be chosen from the State of Ohio to advocate
in the American Senate the principles of the Democratic party, there is no man in Ohio, or
in the United States, more deserving of that honor than Allen G. Thurman.  For many years he
and I served together as representatives of opposing parties.  We, each with the vigor and
power we could, endeavored to impress our views upon the public, to carry out the line of policy
to which our political friends were devoted.  And in all that time no words of unkindness,
no words of asperity, have passed between us.  We never brought Ohio quarrels before the Senate
of the United States, and always found that honesty and ability were entirely consistent with
gentlemanly courtesy between political opponents.

"And I wish also to return my grateful acknowledgments to Governor Foster for the kindly language
with which he has introduced me to you, and to many distinguished citizens of Ohio who, by
their kind and generous forbearance, have enabled you, without division, to send a Senator
to the Congress of the United States without a quarrel, a contest or a struggle, and I feel
under obligations to the gentleman who has introduced me largely for this distinguished honor
and courtesy.

"I can only say then, in conclusion, fellow-citizens, that I am glad that the opportunity of
the office you have given me will enable me to come back here home to Ohio to cultivate again
the relations I had of old.  It is one of the happiest thoughts that comes to me in consequence
of your election that I will be able to live again among you and to be one of you, and I trust
in time to overcome the notion that has sprung up within two or three years that I am a human
iceberg, dead to all human sympathies.  I hope you will enable me to overcome that difficulty.
That you will receive me kindly, and I think I will show you, if you doubt it, that I have
a heart to acknowledge gratitude--a heart that feels for others, and willing to alleviate where
I can all the evils to which men and women are subject.  I again thank you from the bottom
of my heart."

Among the many incidents in my life I recall this as one of the happiest, when the bitterness
and strife of political contests were laid aside and kindness and charity took their place.
I am glad to say that the same friendly relations that existed between Senator Thurman and
myself have always been maintained with each of my colleagues, without distinction of party.

Early in January I had accepted an invitation of the merchants of Boston to attend the annual
dinner of their association on the 31st of that month.  While the dinner was the stated object,
yet I knew that the speeches to be made were the real cause of the meeting. These were to be
made by Governor Long, Stewart L. Woodford and others, real orators, while I was expected to
talk to them about money, debt and taxes.  I met their wishes by a careful statement of the
mode of refunding, or, to define the word, the process of reducing the burden of the public
debt by reducing the rate of interest.  I stated at length the measures executed by Hamilton,
Gallatin and others, in paying in full the Revolutionary debt and that created by the War of
1812, and those adopted in recent times. The mode at each period was similar, but the amount
of recent refundings was twenty times greater than the national debt at the beginning of the
government, and our surplus revenue for that one year just past would have paid the debt of
the United States at the close of the Revolutionary War.  In all stages of our history we have
preserved the public faith by the honest discharge of every obligation.  Long, Woodford and
others made eloquent speeches, and, on the whole, the "dinner" was a pronounced success.

After my return to Washington, Garfield continued to write me freely, especially about the
selection of the Secretary of the Treasury.  In a note dated February 14 he gave me the names
of a number of prominent men and his impressions about them, but I do not feel at liberty to
insert it.  In my answer of the date of February 16, after expressing my opinion of those named,
I said:

"Since our last conversation in Mentor I have turned this important matter over and over again
in my mind, and I drift back pretty nearly to the opinion I then expressed, that, assuming
that a western man is to be appointed, my judgment would lead me to select, first, Windom.
. . . He is certainly a man of high character, of pleasant manners, free from any political
affiliations that would be offensive to you, on good terms with all, yet a man of decision."

I knew Garfield well.  From his early advent in 1861 in the legislature of Ohio, when I was
a candidate for the Senate, to the date of his death, I had every opportunity to study his
character. He was a large, well developed, handsome man, with a pleasing address and a natural
gift for oratory.  Many of his speeches were models of eloquence.  These qualities naturally
made him popular. But his will power was not equal to his personal magnetism.  He easily changed
his mind, and honestly veered from one impulse to another.  This, I think, will be admitted
by his warmest friends. During the trying period between his election and inauguration his
opinions wavered, but Blaine, having similar personal qualities, but a stronger will, gained
a powerful influence with him.  When I proposed to him to be a delegate at large to the Chicago
convention, he no doubt meant in good faith to support my nomination.  When his own nomination
seemed probable he acquiesced in, and perhaps contributed to it, but after his election he
was chiefly guided by his brilliant Secretary of State.

There was a striking contrast between the personal qualities of Garfield and Hayes.  Hayes
was a modest man, but a very able one. He had none of the brilliant qualities of his successor,
but his judgment was always sound, and his opinion, when once formed, was stable and consistent.
He was a graduate of Kenyon college and the law school at Cambridge.  He had held several local
offices in Cincinnati, had served with high credit in the Union army, and had attained the
rank of major general by conspicuous heroism in battle. He had been twice elected a Member
of Congress from Cincinnati and three times as Governor of Ohio, and in 1876 was elected President
of the United States.  The contest which was ended by his inauguration has already been referred
to.  During his entire term, our official and personal relations were not only cordial, but
as close and intimate as that of brothers could be.  I never took an important step in the
process of resumption and refunding, though the law vested the execution of these measures
in my office, without consulting him.  Yet, while expressing his opinion, he said this business
must be conducted by me, and that I was responsible.

Early in his administration we formed the habit of taking long drives on each Sunday afternoon,
in the environs of Washington. He was a regular attendant with Mrs. Hayes, every Sunday morning,
at the Methodist Episcopal church, of which she was a member.  This duty being done we felt
justified in seeking the seclusion of the country for long talks about current measures and
policy.  Each of us was prepared with a memorandum of queries.  My coachman, who has been with
me for twenty years, could neither heed nor hear. We did not invade any of the departments
of the government outside of the treasury and his official functions as President.  This exchange
of opinion was of service to the public, and gave to each of us the benefit of an impartial
opinion from the other.

Among the multitude of public men I have met I have known no one who held a higher sense of
his duty to his country, and more faithfully discharged that duty, than President Hayes.  He
came into his great office with the prejudice of a powerful party against him, caused by a
close and disputed election.  This was unjust to him, for the decision was made by a tribunal
created mainly by its representatives.  He went out of office at the close of his term with
the hearty respect of the American people, and his administration may be placed as among the
most beneficial and satisfactory in the history of the republic.

When near the close of his term, he gave the usual dinner to the members of the outgoing and
the incoming cabinets.  It was purely an official dinner, but Hayes said that there were two
gentlemen present who were not in office.  We looked around to see who the unhappy two were,
and found they were Garfield and myself.  Garfield had not yet become President and I had resigned
as secretary the day before.  This happened to be the only day that I was not in public office
since March 4, 1855.

On the 3rd of March I delivered to the President my resignation, as follows:

  'Washington, March 3.
"Hon. R. B. Hayes, President United States.

"My Dear Sir:--Having been elected a Member of the Senate of the United States, I have the
honor to resign the office of Secretary of the Treasury, to take effect this day.  In thus
severing our official relations, I avail myself of the opportunity to express my grateful appreciation
and heartfelt thanks for the support and assistance you have uniformly given me in the discharge
of the duties of that office.  I shall ever cherish with pleasant memories my friendly association
with you as a member of your cabinet, and shall follow you in your retirement from your great
office with my best wishes and highest regards.

  "Very truly your friend,
  "John Sherman."

During my service as Secretary of the Treasury I had been arraigned in every issue of the Sunday
"Capital," a newspaper published in Washington, in the severest terms of denunciation, by Don
Piatt, the owner of the paper.  He was a brilliant but erratic writer, formerly a member of
the Ohio legislature and a native of that state.  I believed that his animosity to me grew
out of my re- election to the Senate in 1865, when General Schenck, who was warmly supported
by Piatt, was my competitor.  Schenck and I always maintained friendly relations.  He served
his district long and faithfully in the House of Representatives, was a brilliant debater,
had the power of condensing a statement or argument in the fewest possible words, and uttering
them with effective force.  Next to Mr. Corwin, and in some respects superior to him, Schenck
was ranked as the ablest Member of the House of Representatives from Ohio during his period
of active life, from 1840 to his death, at Washington, D. C., March 23, 1890.  Schenck freely
forgave me for his defeat, but Piatt never did.

At the close of my term as secretary, much to my surprise, Piatt wrote and published in his
paper an article, a portion of which I trust I will be pardoned for inserting here:

"When John Sherman took the treasury, in March, 1877, it was plain that the piece de resistance
of his administration would be the experiment of the resumption act, which John, as chairman
of the Senate finance committee, had elaborated two years before, and which was then just coming
upon the threshold of practical test. The question at issue was whether resumption of specie
payments, after eighteen years of suspension, could be accomplished through the operation of
laws of Congress, which, if not absolutely in conflict with the laws of political economy,
were, to every visible appearance, several years in advance of them.  Of course, the primary
effect of the appreciation of our paper towards par with the standard of coin was the enhancement
of the purchasing power of the circulating medium.  That made it hard to pay debts which had
been contracted on low scales of purchasing power.  That which had been bought for a dollar
worth sixty cents, must be paid for with a dollar worth eighty, ninety, or a hundred cents,
according to the date on which the contract matured.  Of course, such a proceedings created
an awful squeeze.  Many men, struggling under loads of debt, found the weight of their obligations
growing upon them faster than their power to meet, and they succumbed.

"For all this John Sherman was blamed.  He was named 'The Wrecker,' and the maledictions poured
upon his head during the years 1877 and 1878 could not be measured.  Every day the columns
of the press recorded new failures, and every failure added to the directory of John Sherman's
maledictors.  But the man persevered.  And now, looking back over the record of those two years,
with all their stifled ambitions and ruined hopes, the grim resolution with which John, deafening
his ears to the cry of distress from every quarter, kept his eye fixed upon the single object
of his endeavor, seems hardly human--certainly not humane.  And yet there are few reasoning
men to be found now ready to deny that it was for the best, and, taken all in all, a benefaction
to the country; one of those sad cases, in fact, where it is necessary to be cruel in order
to be kind.

"We were not a supporter of John Sherman's policy at any period of its crucial test.  We did
not believe that his gigantic experiment could be brought to a successful conclusion.  The
absurd currency theories which were from time to time set up in antagonism to his policy never
impressed us; our disbelief was based upon our fear that the commercial and industrial wreckage,
consequent upon an increase of forty per cent. in the purchasing power of money within three
years, would be infinitely greater than it turned out to be, and, so being, would overwhelm
the country in one common ruin. But we were mistaken.  John Sherman was right.  And it is but
common frankness to say of him, even as one would give the devil his due, that he builded wiser
than we knew--possibly wiser than he knew himself.  At all events, John builded wisely.

"He took the treasury at a period when it was little more than a great national bank of discount,
with rates varying from day to day; the coin standard a commodity of speculation on Wall street;
the credit of the government a football in the markets of the world; and our bonds begging
favor of European capitalists.  He leaves it what it ought to be--a treasury pure and simple,
making no discounts, offering no concessions, asking no favors; the board that once speculated
in coin as a commodity abolished, doors closed by reason of occupation gone; the credit of
our government at the head of the list of Christendom; since we are launching at par a three
per cent. consol, which even England, banking house of the universe, has never yet been able
to maintain steadily above 97.

"This is no small achievement to stand as the record of four years. It is an achievement that
entitles the man who accomplished it to rank as one of the four great American financiers who
really deserve the title--Robert Morris, Albert Gallatin, Salmon P. Chase, and John Sherman.

"We take off our hat to John; not because we like him personally, but because we admire the
force of character, the power of intellect and the courage of conviction that enabled him to
face his difficulties, surmount his obstacles and overcome the resistance he met.

"The treasury he took up in 1877 was a battle ground.  The treasury he resigns to his successor
in 1881 is a well-ordered machine of red tape and routine, requiring for its future successful
administration little else than mediocrity, method and laissez faire.  As we said before, we
take off our hat to John.  He is not a magnetic man like Blaine, not a lovable man like our
poor, dear friend Matt. Carpenter, not a brilliant man like our Lamar; not like any of these--warm
of temperament, captivating of presence or dazzling of intellectual luminosity; but he is a
great man, strong in the cold, steadfast nerve that he inherits from his ancestor, and respectable
in the symmetry of an intellect which, like a marble masterpiece, leaves nothing to regret
except the thought that its perfection excludes the blemish of a soul.  John Sherman will figure
creditably in history.  Mankind soon forgets the sentimental acrimony of the moment, provoked
by the suffering of harsh processes, and remembers only the grand results.  Thus John Sherman
will figure in history as the man who resumed specie payments; and in that the visiting statesman
of 1876 and the wrecker of 1877-78 will be forgotten. We congratulate John upon his translation
into the history of success as heartily as if we had been his supporter in the midst of all
his tribulations.  Bully for John."

George Bancroft, the eminent historian, lived in Washington for many years during the latter
part of his life.  His house was always an attractive and hospitable one.  I had many interesting
conversations with him, mainly on historical subjects.  Both of us carefully eschewed politics,
for to the end of his life, I think, he always regarded himself as a Democrat.  I insert an
autograph letter from him, written at the age of eighty-one.

  "1623 H Street,                       }
  "Washington, D. C., February 22, 1881.}
"My Dear Mr. Sherman:--I thank you very much for the complete
statement, you were very good to send me, of the time and amounts
of payments made to Washington as President.  Congratulating you
on the high state of the credit of the United States, I remain,
ever, dear Mr. Secretary,

  "Very truly yours,
  "Geo. Bancroft."

Before closing my recollections of the administration of President Hayes I ought to express
my high appreciation of my colleagues in his cabinet.  It was throughout his term a happy family.
I do not recall a single incident that disturbed the sincere friendship of its members, nor
any clashing of opinions that produced discord or contention.  Neither interfered with the
duties of the other.  The true rule was acted upon that the head of each department should
submit to the President his view of any important question that arose in his department.  If
the President wished the opinion of his cabinet on any question, he submitted it to the cabinet
but took the responsibility of deciding it after hearing their opinions. It was the habit of
each head of a department to present any questions of general interest in his department, but
as a rule he decided it with the approbation of the President.  Evarts was always genial and
witty, McCrary was an excellent Secretary of War.  He was sensible, industrious and prudent.
Thompson was a charming old gentleman of pleasing manners and address, a good advocate and
an eloquent orator, who had filled many positions of honor and trust.  The President regretted
his resignation, to engage in the abortive scheme of De Lesseps to construct the Panama Canal.
Attorney General Devens was a good lawyer and judge and an accomplished gentleman.  He frequently
assisted me in my resumption and refunding operations, and, fortunately for me, he agreed with
me in my opinions as to the legality and expedience of the measures adopted.  General Carl
Schurz was a brilliant and able man and discharged the duties of Secretary of the Interior
with ability.  I had known him in the Senate as an admirable and eloquent debater, but in the
cabinet he was industrious and practical and heartily supported the policy of the President
and was highly esteemed by him.  Key, of Tennessee, was selected as a moderate Democrat to
represent the south.  This was an experiment in cabinet making, cabinets being usually composed
of members of the same party as the President, but Key proved to be a good and popular officer.
The two vacancies that occurred by the resignations of McCrary and Thompson were acceptably
filled by Governor Ramsey, of Minnesota, and Goff, of West Virginia.  Each of these gentlemen
contributed to the success of Hayes' administration, and each of the heartily sympathized with,
and supported the measures of, the treasury department.

On the 4th day of March, 1881, I attended the special session of the Senate, called by President
Hayes, and took the oath prescribed by law.  In conformity with the usages of the Senate, I
lost my priority on the committee on finance by the interregnum in my service, but was made
chairman of the committee on the library, and a member of the committees on finance, rules,
and privileges and elections.  Mr. Morrill, of Vermont, became chairman of the committee on
finance, and, by the courtesy of the other members, I was placed next to him on that committee.
Our relations since our entrance together, in 1854, into the House of Representatives had been
so intimate and cordial that it made no practical difference which of us sat at the head of
the table.  When I recalled the facts that in both the Senate and House of Representatives
I had been chairman of the financial committee, and Mr. Morrill a member, that my service in
the treasury department did not impair my fitness as chairman, but rather improved it, and
that under precisely the same conditions I had restored to Mr. Fessenden his former position,
I felt piqued, but my feelings did not extend to Mr. Morrill, for whom I had the highest respect
and confidence, and with whom I rarely differed on any public question.  He is now the Nestor
of the Senate, wonderfully vigorous in mind and body.

The chief subject of political interest in this session was the attitude of William Mahone,
a Senator from Virginia.  He had been a distinguished officer in the Confederate army, was
a small man physically, but of wonderful vitality, of undoubted courage and tenacity.  He had
broken from the Democratic party, of which he had been a member, and had been elected a Senator
on local issues in Virginia, arising chiefly out of the debt of that state.  When he entered
the Senate, that body was so equally divided that his vote would determine which party should
have the control of its organization.  He quickly made his choice.  He was viciously assailed
by Senator Hill, of Georgia, who, not by name but by plain inference, charged Mahone with disgracing
the commission he held.  The reply of Mahone was dramatic and magnetic.  His long hair, his
peculiar dress and person, and his bold and aggressive language, attracted the attention and
sympathy of the Senate and the galleries.  He opened his brief speech as follows:

"Mr. president, the Senator has assumed not only to be the custodian here of the Democratic
party of this nation; but he has dared to assert his right to speak for a constituency that
I have the privilege, the proud and honorable privilege on this floor, of representing without
his assent, without the assent of such Democracy as he speaks for.  I owe them, sir, I owe
you [addressing Mr. Hill], and those for whom you undertake to speak, nothing in this chamber.
I came here, sir, as a Virginian, to represent my people, not to represent the Democracy for
which you stand.  I come with as proud a claim to represent that people as you to represent
the people of Georgia, won on field where I have vied with Georgians whom I commanded and others
in the cause of my people and of their section in the late unhappy contest, but, thank God,
for the peace and good of the country that contest is over, and as one of those who engaged
in it, and who has neither here nor elsewhere any apology to make for the part taken, I am
here by my humble efforts to bring peace to this whole country, peace and good will between
the sections, not here as a partisan, not here to represent the Bourbonism which has done so
much injury to my section of the country."

The debate that followed soon settled the position of General Mahone.  He acted with the Republican
party.  During the whole of this session, which extended to May 20, little was done except
to debate Virginia politics, of which Mahone was the center.  His vote was decisive of nearly
every question presented.  I took part in the long debate on the election of officers of the
Senate, mainly with Senator Bayard.  My sympathy was with Mahone, as I felt that, whatever
his view of the debt question in Virginia was, he was right on the reconstruction of the south
and in opposition to the bitter sectionalism of the Democratic party in that state.  In replying
to Mr. Bayard I said I agreed with him in the principle that the majority must rule.  I claimed,
however, that when the action of a minority went beyond a reasonable delay it became revolution
and, in a word, was worse than revolution, it was treason; that under the senate rules, and
in conformity with them, this government might be as absolutely destroyed as the southern Confederates
would have destroyed it if they had succeeded; that the rules were intended to be construed
with reason and judgment; that the minority had certain rights to interpose dilatory motions
in order to delay and weary out the will of the majority, but when it went beyond that limit
it entered upon dangerous ground; that the simple question was whether the Senate should elect
its officers by a majority vote or whether the minority should force the retention of those
then in office.  The session closed without electing officers of the Senate, and was in substance
a debating society doing nothing but talk and acting upon presidential appointments.

The cabinet of President Garfield, as finally selected, was a good one and was promptly confirmed.
Mr. Blaine, for the head of it, was determined upon early after the election, but the other
members were not decided upon until near the inauguration.  Mr. Windom certainly proved himself
a very able and accomplished Secretary of the Treasury during the short period of his tenure.
As I held myself in a large measure responsible for his appointment, I took a great interest
in his success.  He conferred with me freely about the best mode of refunding the large amount
of bonds that became due on or before the 1st of July.  Congress having failed to pass any
law to provide for the refunding of this debt, he resorted to an ingenious expedient, which
answered the purpose of refunding. Under a plan which was his own device there were called
in, for absolute payment on July 1, 1881, about $200,000,000 of bonds, mainly the six per cent.
bonds of 1861, but permission was given to the holders of the bonds to have them continued
at the pleasure of the government, with interest at the rate of three and a half per cent.
per annum, provided the holder should so request, and the bonds should be received at the treasury
for that purpose on or before the 10th of May, 1881.  The plan proved entirely satisfactory.
There were presented in due time, for continuance at three and a half per cent., the amount
of $178,055,150 of bonds, leaving to be paid off from surplus revenue $24,211,400, for which
the treasury had ample resources.  Having succeeded in disposing of the six per cent. bonds,
he gave notice that the coupon five per cent. bonds of the loans of July 14, 1870, and January
20, 1871, would be paid on August 12, 1881, with a like privilege of continuing the bonds at
three and a half per cent. to such of the holders who might present them for that purpose on
or before July 1, 1881.  At the same time the treasurer offered to receive for continuance
any of the uncalled registered bonds of that loan to an amount not exceeding $250,000,000,
the remainder of the loan being reserved with a view to its payment from the surplus revenues.

The annual saving in interest by the continuance of these bonds amounted to $10,473,952.25.
I heartily approved this plan.  In a reported interview of the 14th of April I said:

"I see no difficulty in fully carrying out Secretary Windom's policy, as far as developed.
He has ample means for reducing the interest on the five and six per cent. bonds.  He can pay
off all those who wish to be paid in money, in strict accordance with the terms of these bonds,
leaving the mass of them at three and a half per cent. interest, payable at the pleasure of
Congress.  This is not only for the public interest, but is on the clear line of his power
and duty.  Indeed, I think it is better for the country than any refunding plan that would
be carried out under a new law.  The old securities remain as redeemable bonds, bearing as
low a rate of interest as any new bonds would bear, which could be now sold at par, and they
are more readily payable with surplus revenue than any new bonds could be.  If it should appear
next session that a three per cent. bond would sell at par, that can be authorized. Secretary
Windom is cautious and careful, and has done the very best for the public that is possible."

"Do you think the public will be likely to respond largely to his efforts?"

"Yes, I have no doubt about it, unless an unforseen or sudden revulsion occurs."

Mr. Windom demonstrated his ability, not only in the plan of refunding the debt, but in the
general conduct and management of his department.

The administration of Garfield encountered the same difficulty as that of Hayes in the selection
of officers in the State of New York.  The question was whether appointments in New York should
be made by the President or by a Senator from that state.  E. A. Merritt, collector of the
port of New York, having been nominated for consul general at London, William H. Robertson
was nominated to the Senate in his place.  When the Senate considered this nomination Senator
Conkling and his colleague, Senator Platt, opposed it, not for unfitness, but for the reason
that they had not been consulted in this matter, and that the selection was an insult and in
violation of pledges given Conkling by the President. When this opposition was known, the President
withdrew previous appointments from that state, in order that the Senate might act upon the
nomination of collector and definitely determine whether he or the Senators should appoint
United States officers in New York.  Finding the nomination of Robertson would be confirmed,
both Senators resigned on the 16th of May, and made their appeal to the legislature of New
York for re-election.  If they had been returned to the Senate, the President would have been
powerless to appoint anyone in New York without consulting the Senators, practically transferring
to them his constitutional power.  Fortunately for the country the legislature of New York
elected E. C. Lapham and Warner Miller in the places of Conkling and Platt.

How far, if at all, the excitement of this contest led to the assassination of Garfield by
Guiteau cannot be known; yet, this tragedy occurring soon after the contest, the popular mind
connected the two events, and the horror and detestation of the murder emphasized the rejection
of Conkling and Platt.

The action of the President and of the New York legislature contributed to check the interference
of Senators in appointments to office, which had grown up, under what is called "the courtesy
of the Senate," to be a serious abuse.  The nomination of Stanley Matthews, eminently fitted
for the office of justice of the Supreme Court, was confirmed by a majority of only one vote,
the objections to him being chiefly as did not relate to his fitness or qualifications for
that great office, but grew out of his intimate relations with Hayes.

After the adjournment of the Senate I went to Mansfield, and enjoyed the comfort and quiet
of home life after the turbulence and anxiety of four years of severe labor as Secretary of
the Treasury.  The state convention was to be held at Cleveland on the 18th of June. There
were signs of disaffection growing out of the events of the past year, which threatened to
disturb the harmony of the Republican party.  I determined to do all I could to allay this,
and for that purpose to attend the convention as a delegate and promote, as far as I could,
the renomination of Governor Foster.  When the convention met I was selected as its president,
and in my speech I took care to express my support of Governor Foster and the administration
of Garfield.

I said that Governor Foster was entitled to renomination, and I believed would receive it at
the hands of the convention, that his able and earnest canvass two years before had laid the
foundation for a great victory, culminating in the election of Garfield as President.  I called
attention to the achievements of the Republican party during the past twenty-five years in
war and in peace.  I warned the convention that there was no room in Ohio, or in this country,
for a "boss," or a leader who commands and dictates, and said:  "The man who aspires to it
had better make his will beforehand." I congratulated the convention upon the auspicious opening
of the administration of President Garfield and said:

"We know office-seeking is undoubtedly the proper pursuit of mankind. There may be some disappointments,
because there are fewer places to fill than men willing to fill them.  But, in the main, the
general principles and policy of this administration are in harmony with the aspirations of
the Republican party.  The financial policy of the last administration has been supplemented
by the reduction of the rate of interest on $500,000,000 of the public securities from five
and six per cent. to three and a half per cent.  This wise measure has been carefully and most
skillfully managed by Secretary Windom, an Ohio boy. . . . They are saving $15,000,000 a year,
and now the debt which frightened brave men fifteen years ago has melted away like snow before
a summer sun, no longer frightening the timid.  And now the tax on whisky will pay the interest
on the public debt.

"The people of Ohio are satisfied with the administration, I believe, as it now stands.  I
believe I can say, in advance of the resolution that has been, or that will be, offered, that
President Garfield has the emphatic approval of the Republicans of Ohio in the course he has
pursued thus far.  Let him further advance the public credit; let him punish all who do wrong;
let him give us an administration pure, simple and republican, worthy of a nation like ours,
and we will send him our approval twice over again.  But, we have something to do in this task.
We have got to emphasize our approval by indorsing this administration in the election of the
Republican ticket this fall.  This is no child's play.  We know of the good work of the Republican
party, that it has a powerful constituency behind it, we dare not do anything wrong, or they
will push us from our positions, if we do not behave ourselves.  Let us, then, do our part;
work as Republicans of Ohio know how to work, and victory will perch upon our banners."

The proceedings of the convention, from beginning to end, were conducted without any serious
division or excitement.  The threatened outbreak against Foster did not occur.  Upon the close
of my speech I announced that the first business in order was the nomination of a candidate
for governor.  Foster was nominated by acclamation, without a dissenting voice.  The rest of
the ticket was composed of popular candidates, and an exceptionally good platform was adopted.

In the latter part of June, I attended alumni day of Kenyon college, in company with ex-President
Hayes and many leading men of Ohio. Delano Hall, the gift of Columbus Delano, and Hubbard Hall
were dedicated with appropriate services, conducted by Bishop Bedell and President Bodine.
On this occasion the degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred upon me, and I told the faculty
how earnestly I had wished to graduate in their college, and why I could not do so.  Frank
Hurd and Mr. Hayes, both graduates, made interesting addresses.  This college was founded mainly
upon liberal contributions to Bishop Chase, by Lord Kenyon and other Englishmen.  Its governing
power was the Episcopal church.  It has had many vicissitudes of prosperity and depression,
but has never realized the hopes of its founders.  It is one of the colleges of Ohio, excellent
in their way, but if their limited resources had been combined in one great university, free
from sectarian influence, the result would, in my opinion, have been much better for the youth
of Ohio.

During this period I was busy putting my country house in order. I was literally "repairing
the fences."  The absence, during four years, of Mrs. Sherman and myself made a great change
in the condition of my house, grounds and farm.  The work of restoration was a pleasant one,
and I was relieved from appeals for appointments, from the infinite details of an exacting
office, and still more from the grave responsibility of dealing with vast sums, in which, however
careful I might be, and free from fault, I was subject to imputations and innuendoes by every
writer who disapproved of my policy.

I was arranging for a trip to Yellowstone Park, was receiving visitors from abroad daily, and
mixing with my neighbors and fellow- townsmen, congratulating myself upon a period of rest
and recreation, when, on the 2nd of July, I received from General Sherman the announcement,
by telegram, that Garfield had been shot by Guiteau, and that the wound was dangerous, and
perhaps fatal.  The full details of this crime were soon given.  I started to go to Washington,
but returned when advised that I could be of no service, but continued to receive from General
Sherman frequent bulletins.  The position of the fatal bullet could not be ascertained, and
Garfield lingered in suffering until the 19th of September, when he died.

The death of Garfield, by the hand of a half crazy crank, created a profound impression throughout
the civilized world.  To rise to such a height as he had attained, and then to become the victim
of such a wretch, was a calamity that excited profound sympathy for the President, and unusual
detestation for the murderer.  The personal qualities of Garfield have been already mentioned.
After his untimely death his enemies became silent.  At this distance of time we can properly
fix his place in the calendar of those who have gone before.  In many respects, Garfield was
like Blaine, but in his personal intercourse with men, and in the power of will, he was not
the equal of Blaine, while, in style of oratory, in imagery and expression, he was superior
to him.  Both were eminent in their day and generation.  They were my juniors about eight years,
yet they lived long enough to permanently stamp their names upon the history of the country.

On the 20th of July General Sherman arrived at Mansfield as my visitor.  There was much curiosity
to see him, especially by soldiers who had served under his command.  I invited them to call
at my house.  On the evening of the 21st a large procession of soldiers and citizens, headed
by the American band, marched to my grounds. The general and I met them at the portico, when
Colonel Fink stepped forward and made a brief speech, saying:

"General Sherman:--We, the old soldiers of the war for the Union, of Richland county and its
surroundings, together with our citizens, have come to-day to pay our respects to you.

"We come, with feelings of profound regard, to see and welcome you, our great strategic war
chief, and the hero fo the glorious 'March to the sea.'

"We greet you as the general and leader of all the armies of our country; we greet you as the
gallant defender of the flag; we greet you as the brother of our beloved Senator; we greet
you as an Ohio man, but, above all, we have come to greet and honor you for your worth; the
man that you are."

General Sherman replied briefly, and as this is the first speech I ever heard him make I insert
it here.  He said:

"Fellow-Soldiers of the late war and Fellow-Citizens:--It gives me pleasure to meet you here
to-night, in this beautiful grove; in this inclosure, at my own brother's home.  I am glad
to meet you, his neighbors and his friends.  The situation is a novel one to me, and I am deeply
moved by it.  As I look over you I do not recognize the faces that I used to know, and when
riding about your city to-day, I only found some of the names I then knew--your Hedges, your
Parkers, and your Purdys; for the rest I had to go to your cemetery, over yonder, and read
their names on the tombstones. But you have them still among you in their children and their
grandchildren.

"I cannot distinguish to-night who are and who are not soldiers, but let me say to you, soldiers,
I am very glad to meet you again, after so many years, in this time of peace, when yet the
recollection of the hardships of war is a bond of comradeship among us.  We fought, not for
ourselves alone, but for those who are to come after us.  The dear old flag we carried through
the storms of many battles, ready to die, if need be, that it might still wave over the government
of our fathers.

"But this is not the time nor place to recount the events of the past.  I could not now do
the subject justice if I should try.  I am not accustomed to addressing mixed audiences.  My
brother here knows how to do that better than I, and he understands you better. But I want
to say to you:  Teach your children to honor the flag, to respect the laws, and love and understand
our institutions, and our glorious country will be safe with them.

"My friends, I heartily appreciate this splendid tribute of your friendship and respect.  I
thank you.  Good night."

At the conclusion of General Sherman's speech he was cheered vociferously, after which calls
were made for me.  I made a few remarks and announced that the general would be glad to take
them all by the hand, and as he did so they passed into the dining-room, where refreshments
awaited them.  The greetings and hand-shaking lasted over an hour.  In the meantime the "soldier
boys" and others were enjoying the good cheer within.

On the 22nd of July General Sherman, with Colonel Bacon, left for Clyde, Ohio, and I at the
same time started for Chicago, there to be joined by Justice Strong, late of the Supreme Court,
who had recently retired at the age of 70, the artist Bierstadt, and Alfred M. Hoyt, of New
York, for a trip to Yellowstone Park.  We had arranged for this trip months before.  Our plan
was a simple one, to go at our convenience by the Union Pacific, the only railroad route then
open, to Salt Lake City, and thence to Virginia City, thence through the Yellowstone Park,
and by another route to return to Virginia City, and thence home.  We were to take the usual
route and means of conveyance until we arrived at Virginia City.  From there we were to have
an escort, to and through the park, of ten United States soldiers from Fort Ellis.

The party met at Chicago and proceeded to Ogden and Salt Lake City. At the latter place we
casually met several gentlemen of our acquaintance, especially General Harrison, Eli Murray,
Governor of the Territory of Utah, and General McCook, who commanded the post in Salt Lake
City.  We spent a day or two in visiting the post and city, and found a great improvement since
my former visit.  In the evening we were serenaded by a band from the post, and several gentlemen
were called out for speeches by the gathering crowd.  I had been met during my stay there by
many people who claimed to hail from Ohio, so that I began to think it was quite an Ohio settlement.
In the few remarks I made at the serenade I eulogized Ohio and spoke of the number of Ohio
people I had met in that city. General McCook was called out, and as he was from Ohio he had
something to say for that state.  General Harrison was called upon, and he said that while
he lived in Indiana he was born in Ohio and was proud of it.  General Murray was next called
for and he said that while he was born in Kentucky he lived so close to Ohio that he could
throw a stone into the state.  So much had been said about Ohio that Judge Strong took offense.
They called upon him to address the crowd from the balcony, but he would not.  Finally, upon
my urging him to speak, he rushed forward and said:  "I want you to understand distinctly that
I am not from Ohio, I was not born in Ohio, I never lived in Ohio, and don't want to hear anything
more about Ohio!"  This was vociferously cheered, and the old gentleman closed with very proper
remarks about love for the Union instead of for the state.

Since that time I have visited Salt Lake City and have always been impressed with the great
value of that region, not only for its mineral wealth, but for the possibility of great agricultural
development with proper irrigation.

During our stay we bathed in Salt Lake.  The water was so impregnated with salt that our bodies
floated upon the surface and there was no danger of drowning.  The history of Salt Lake City,
which owes its existence and wonderful development and prosperity to Brigham young, is like
an improbable romance.  I have already mentioned Young, having met him on my former visit with
Thomas A. Scott.  In the nine years that had elapsed the city had nearly doubled its population.
Pure water was flowing in all the streets and the city looked fresh and clean.  The air, at
an elevation of 4,000 feet above the sea, was exhilarating.  From Salt Lake City we returned
to Ogden, and on, or about, the 1st of August took passage on the Utah Northern railroad. 
Our route lay along the Beaver River, passing Eagle Rock, thence through Beaver Cañon into
Idaho, thence through a mountainous range, at about an elevation of 6,800 feet, into Montana
as far as the frontier town of Dillon.  There we left the cars and took wagons to Virginia
City, Montana, where we were to meet our military escort and arrange for horses and mules to
carry us and our camp outfit into the park.

Our drive from Dillon to Virginia City was very picturesque, skirting the Ruby mountains and
crossing the Stinking Water River.  Virginia City was at one time the center and thriving business
place of the large population that was drawn to that valley by the very rich placer gold mines
there, discovered between 1865 and 1870.  It is estimated that $90,000,000 of gold was taken
from that stream that runs through a valley about eighteen miles long.  The city had many substantial
buildings, a large brick courthouse, five churches, many large business stores, dwellings and
hotels.  At the time we were there the placer mining had been abandoned, except by some Chinamen
who were washing over the tailings and making good wages at it; and the population had been
reduced from 20,000 people to 1,400.  Here we spent Sunday.  It was a gala day for the saloons,
ranchmen and cowboys, typical of how Sunday is observed in all these mining and ranch towns.
We met here, as everywhere in Montana, wandering gold-seekers who explored from mountain to
valley in search of the precious metal, often making exaggerated statements in regard to the
undeveloped wealth not yet discovered, with stories about gold which were never realized. 
It was the common belief that the gold found in the placer mines must have been washed from
the mountains near by, and seekers for gold were looking for the source of the gold field in
such mountains, but it was never discovered.  Mines were discovered in other parts of Montana,
but none about Virginia City.

On Monday we met Lieutenant Swigert with a dozen troopers from Fort Ellis, who, by orders from
the war department, were to escort us through Yellowstone Park.  Here we obtained horses and
mules for our own use and for carrying our packs, camp traps, etc.  When all was ready we started
for our camping in the wilderness.  Our first day's march was about twenty miles, when we went
into camp.  We proceeded each day about this same rate, following along the valley of the Madison
River until we reached the park.  When we were there the park was truly a wilderness, with
no evidences of civilization. Game was very abundant.  Elk, deer, antelope and bear were plentiful,
and we had no difficulty in getting all the fresh meat we wanted.

Among our employees was a man by the name of Beam, a typical hunter. He had spent most of his
life in the mountains.  He started out every morning in advance of us and was always sure to
be at the agreed camping ground when he arrived.  I asked him at one time if he was not afraid
of being lost.  He said no, he could not be lost for he could go to the top of any hill or
mountain and determine his course.  He said he had never been lost but once, and that was in
St. Louis; when he went out from the hotel he was in a "cañon" and he could not tell which
way to go.

We arrived in the lower geyser basin on Saturday.  The next day (Sunday) was bright and beautiful.
We knew that our revered companion, Justice Strong, was a religious man and we felt that he
would have scruples about traveling on Sunday.  Still, we wished to move on that afternoon
to the upper geyser basin, but were at a loss how to approach him with the Sunday question.
It was left to me to confer with him.  Before doing so I arranged to have everything in order
for a proper observance of the Sabbath day. I found after inquiry that there was no Bible in
the large party, but that the officer in command of the troops had an Episcopal prayer book.
I went with that to Justice Strong and suggested that we should have religious services, to
which he readily assented. I gave him the prayer book and he carefully marked out a selection
of scripture and prayers, saying that he was not familiar with the book, but it contained ample
material for a proper religious service. We gathered all the soldiers, wagoners and cowboys,
including the hunter, belonging to our party.  Justice Strong was furnished a box to sit on
in front of his tent, and the rest of us stood or lay in scattered groups on the ground around
him.  He read from the prayer book the passages he had selected, making together a most impressive
and interesting service.  Many of those who gathered around him had not shared in religious
services for years, and were duly impressed with them.  After this was over and we had taken
dinner, I suggested to him that there were so many horses that the teamsters complained that
the grass was not sufficient for them to remain there all day, and that I thought it would
be well for us to move to the upper geyser basin a few miles away, to which he at once assented.
I throughly sympathized with his feelings in this matter, but thought that under the circumstances
our action was excusable and he doubtless saw through the scheme.

During our visit to the geysers in the upper basin, we encamped near "Old Faithful."  From
this camp we could reach, by an easy walk, nearly all the grand geysers of this wonderful basin.
I have sometimes undertaken to describe these geysers, but never could convey my idea of their
grandeur.  Bierstadt made a sketch of "Old Faithful," showing Mr. Hoyt and myself in the foreground,
with the geyser in full action.  He subsequently expanded this picture into a painting, which
I now own and greatly prize.

We resumed our march, passing by Sulphur Mountain, the Devil's Caldron, mud geysers, the "paint
pots," and through this marvelous land, to the shores of Yellowstone Lake.  We were amazed
at the beautiful scenery that stretched before us.  This large lake is in the midst of snow-clad
mountains; its only supply of water is from the melting snows and ice that feed the upper Yellowstone
River. Its elevation is 7,741 feet above the sea.  The ranges and peaks of snow-clad mountains
surrounding the lake, the silence and majesty of the scene, were awe-inspiring--the only life
apparent being the flocks of pelicans.  We fished successfully in this mountain lake, but of
the fishes caught many were spoiled by worms that had eaten into and remained in them.

We visited the great falls of the Yellowstone, the immense and wonderful cañon so often described
and illustrated.  We remained encamped near this cañon a whole day, and amused ourselves chiefly
in exploring its wonderful depths and in rolling stones from projecting points down into the
valley.  They generally bounded from point to point until we could hear them dashing into the
waters far below.

Our march down the valley of the Yellowstone was very interesting. The military escort and
Justice Strong did not pass over Mount Washburn, but went by a nearer and easier route along
the valley to the next camping ground.  Bierstadt, Hoyt and I, with a guide, rode on horseback
to the top of Mount Washburn, a long, difficult and somewhat dangerous feat, but we were amply
repaid by the splendid view before us.  We crossed the mountain at an elevation of 12,000 feet,
in the region of perpetual snow.  From its summit one of the grandest and most extensive views
of mountain scenery lay before and around us, range after range of snowpeaks stretching away
for one hundred miles.  To the south was the valley of Wind River and Stinking Water, and encircling
these, the Shoshone and Wind River ranges with their lines of perpetual snow, the Bear Tooth
Mountain and Pilot Knob and Index Peak, the great landmarks of the Rockies. The ascent was
fatiguing and almost exhausting.  We remained on the mountain two or three hours for needed
rest.  When we arrived in the camp about sundown I was so fatigued that I was utterly unable
to dismount from my horse, and was lifted bodily from it by the soldiers.

We continued our journey through grassy parks until we reached Lower Falls.  From there we
continued until we arrived at Mammoth Hot Springs, where there was a house, the first sign
of civilization we had seen since we began our journeyings in the park.  From here we took
our way to Fort Ellis and Bozeman, where we left our escort and horses and mules.  We returned
from here to Virginia City, and at Dillon took cars for Ogden and thence for home, where I
arrived about the 25th of August.

During my absence in the Yellowstone Park we had frequent bulletins in respect to President
Garfield, sometimes hopeful but generally despondent.  When I returned it was generally supposed
that he could not recover, but might linger for weeks or months.  The public sympathy excited
for him suspended by common consent all political meetings.  As the Ohio election was to occur
on the second Tuesday of October, George K. Nash, chairman of the Republican state committee,
having charge of the canvass, made a number of appointments for several gentlemen during September.
Among them was one for me to speak in Mansfield, on the 17th of that month, in aid of the election
of Foster and the Republican ticket.  Preparations were made and the meeting was actually convened
on the afternoon of that day, but, as the bulletins from Elberton indicated that Garfield might
die at any moment, I declined to speak.  More favorable advices coming, however, I was urged
by the committee to speak to Wooster on Monday evening, September 19, and consented with some
hesitation.  In opening my speech I referred to the condition of the President and my reluctance
to speak; I said:

"Fellow-Citizens:--I am requested by the Republican state committee to make a political speech
to you to-night, in opening here the usual discussion that precedes the election of a governor
and other state officers.  If I felt at liberty to be guided by my own feelings, I would, in
view of the present condition of the President of the United States, forego all political discussion
at this time.

"The President is the victim of a crime committed without excuse or palliation, in a time of
profound peace and prosperity, not aimed at him as an individual, but at him as the President
of the United States.  It was a political crime, made with the view of changing, by assassination,
the President chosen by you.  It has excited, throughout the civilized world, the most profound
horror. The President has suffered for more than two months, and is still suffering, from wounds
inflicted by an assassin.  His life still hangs by a thread.  The anxious inquiry comes up
morning, noon and night, from a whole people, with fervid, earnest prayers for his recovery.

"Under the shadow of this misfortune, I do not feel like speaking, and I know you do not feel
like hearing a political wrangle.  It is but just to say that the members of all parties, with
scarce an exception, Democrats as well as Republicans, share in sympathy with the President
and his family, and in detestation of the crime and the criminal, and the evidence of this
sympathy tends to make political dispute irksome and out of place."

I then entered into a general discussion of the issues of the campaign.  Soon after the close
of my speech I received intelligence of the death of Garfield, and at once revoked all my appointments,
and by common consent both parties withdrew their meetings.  Thus mine was the only speech
made in the campaign.  I immediately went to Washington with ex-President Hayes to attend the
funeral, and accompanied the committee to the burial at Cleveland.  The sympathy for Garfield
in his sad fate was universal and sincere.  The inauguration of President Arthur immediately
followed, and with it an entire change of the cabinet.

On the 23rd of September, 1881, President Arthur convened the Senate to meet in special session
on the 10th of October.  Mr. Bayard was elected its president pro tempore.  On the 13th of
October, when the Senate was full, David Davis, of Illinois, was elected president pro tempore,
and the usual thanks were given to Mr. Bayard, as the retiring president pro tempore, for the
dignity and impartiality with which he had discharged the duties of his office.

At this period of my life I was the object of more abuse and vituperation than ever before
or since.  The fact that the new administration of Arthur was not friendly to me was no doubt
the partial cause of this abuse.  The intense bitterness manifested by certain papers, and
by discharged employees, indicated the origin of most of the petty charges against me.  One
of these employees stated that he had been detailed for work on a house built by me in 1880.
This was easily answered by the fact that the house was built under contract with a leading
builder and the cost was paid to him.  I neither knew the man nor ever heard of him since.

I was blamed for certain irregularities in the disbursement of the contingent fund of the treasury,
although the accounts of that fund were by law approved by the chief clerk of the department
and were settled by the accounting officers without ever coming under my supervision, and the
disbursement had been made by a custodian who was in the department before I entered it.  My
wife was more annoyed than I with the petty charges which she knew were false, but which I
did not dignify by denying.

Mr. Windom, soon after his appointment as secretary, directed an inquiry to be made by officers
of the treasury department into these abuses and it was charged that he, at my request, had
suppressed this inquiry.  The "Commercial Advertiser," on the 11th of October, alleged that
I was as much shocked by the disclosures as my successor, Mr. Windom; that I did not want any
further publicity given to them, and was desirous that Mr. Windom should not allow the report
to get into the public prints.  I, therefore, on the 14th of October, offered in the Senate
this resolution:

"Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby directed to transmit to the Senate
a copy of the report of James F. Meline and others, made to the treasury department during
the recess of the Senate, and of any papers received by him based upon such report."

In offering the resolution, after reading the article in the "Commercial Advertiser," I said:

"The writer of this paragraph is very much mistaken in supposing that I have in any way sought
or wished to withhold from the public the report referred to.  I neither have nor will I oppose
or delay any investigation of the treasury department while I was its chief officer.  The only
wish I have is to see that every officer accused of improper conduct shall have a fair chance
to defend himself, and then he must stand or fall according to the rectitude or wrong of his
conduct.

"The only doubt I have in calling for this report now is the fact that Mr. Windom did not order
its publication lest injustice might be done to worthy and faithful officers who had no opportunity
to cross-examine witnesses or answer charges made against them.  I have no doubt that he either
has given or will give them this opportunity.  At all events the Senate can do so.  I, therefore,
offer this resolution and hope the Senate will promptly pass it."

Mr. Edmunds objected to the resolution as being unnecessary, and under the rules of the Senate
it went over.  I called it up on the 18th of October, when Mr. Farley, of California, asked
that it be postponed a few days.  On the 22nd I again called it up, when Mr. Farley stated
that he could not see what Congress had to do with the report of such a commission appointed
by the Secretary of the Treasury, and asked me for an explanation.  In reply I said:

"I stated, on introducing this resolution, that the investigation was one of a character not
usually communicated to Congress, but that certain public prints had contained unfounded imputations
against several officers of the government, and that there was something in the report which
reflected on a Member of this body formerly a cabinet officer.  Under the circumstances, as
I was plainly the person referred to, having been Secretary of the Treasury at the time stated,
I deemed it my right, as well as my duty to my fellow-Senators, to call out this information.
If the statements contained in the papers be true, they are proper matters for the Senate to
examine in every sense.

"Mr. president, I have been accustomed to newspaper abuse all my life and very rarely notice
it.  This is probably the first time in my political life that I have ever read to this body
a newspaper attack upon me or upon anyone else; but when any paper or any man impugns in the
slightest degree my official integrity I intend to have it investigated, and I wish it tested
not only by the law but by the strictest rules of personal honor.

"For this reason, when this imputation is made by a leading and prominent paper, that there
is on the files of the treasury department a document which reflects upon me, I think it right
that it should be published to the world, and then the Senate can investigate it with the power
to send for persons and papers.  That is the only reason why I offered the resolution, and
not so much in my own defense as in defense of those accused in this document.  If the accusation
is true it is the duty of the Senate to examine into the matter."

After some further discussion the resolution was adopted, and on the same day Mr. Windom transmitted
the report of James F. Meline, and other officers of the treasury department, made to the department
during the recess of the Senate.

"Soon after assuming the duties of Secretary of the Treasury my attention was called to alleged
abuses in the disbursement of the contingent fund of the department, which was under the immediate
charge of a custodian, and the general supervision of the chief clerk of the department, and
I appointed a committee to look into the matter, as has been the custom of the department in
such cases. The law, somewhat conflicting in its terms in relation to the relative duties of
these two officers, will be found fully set forth in the report.  On considering this report
I am convinced that certain irregularities and abuses existed in this branch of the service,
and as I had some doubts as to the legality of the appointment of a custodian I abolished that
office June 18, 1881, and by general order of July 1, 1881, reorganized the office.

"A copy of this order is herewith transmitted, from which it will appear that all the changes
necessary to a complete and thorough correction of the irregularities and abuses referred to
have been adopted.

"It was my intention, as my more pressing public duties would permit, to have pursued this
general policy in other branches of the treasury, by the appointment of competent committees
to collect the necessary data on which to base proper action to secure economy and promote
the best interests of the public service, but the assassination of the President suspended
further action in this direction.

  "Very respectfully,
  "William Windom, Secretary.
"Hon. David Davis, President of the Senate."

On the 26th I offered a resolution as follows:

"Resolved, That the committee on appropriations of the Senate be, and they are hereby, authorized
and directed to investigate the accounts for the expenditure of the appropriations for contingent
or other expenses of the several executive departments, including the methods of making such
disbursements, the character and disposition of the purchases made, and the employment of labor
paid from such appropriations, and to report on the subject at as early a day as practicable,
and whether any further legislation is necessary to secure the proper disbursement of such
appropriations; and that the committee have leave to send for persons and papers, and have
leave to sit during the recess of the Senate."

This led to a thorough investigation into the disbursement of the contingent fund of the treasury
department, the report of which, accompanied by the testimony, covering over 1,200 printed
pages, was submitted to the Senate on the 15th of March, 1882.  This examination was chiefly
conducted by Francis M. Cockrell, of Missouri, a Senator distinguished for his fairness and
thoroughness. The report was concurred in unanimously by the committee on appropriations. 
It showed that certain irregularities had entered into the management of the fund and that
certain improper entries had been made in the account, but that only a trifling loss had resulted
to the government therefrom.

I was before the committee and stated that I never had any knowledge of any wrongdoing in the
matter until it had been brought out by the investigation.  The report fairly and fully relieved
me from the false accusations made against me.  It said:  "Touching the statements of Senator
Sherman, that he had no knowledge of its irregularities, etc., established by the evidence,
no witness states that Mr. Sherman knew that any funds of the treasury department were ever
used for his individual benefit or otherwise misapplied."

I could not have asked for a more favorable ending of the matter.

At the close of the examination the committee addressed to the head of each department of Arthur's
administration an inquiry whether the laws then in force provided ample safeguards for the
faithful expenditure of its contingent appropriation, and each of them replied that no change
in existing law was necessary.  The committee concurred in the views of the heads of the departments,
and suggested that they keep a constant supervision over the acts of their subordinates; that
the storekeeper of the treasury department should be required to give a bond, and that careful
inventories of the property of each department should be made, and that annual reports of the
expenditures from the contingent fund should be made by each department at the commencement
of each regular session.  While this investigation imposed a severe labor upon the committee
on appropriations, it had a beneficial effect in securing a more careful control over the contingent
expenses of the departments, and it silenced the imputations and innuendoes aimed at me.

In regard to these accusations, I no doubt exhibited more resentment and gave them more importance
than they deserved.  I felt that, as Secretary of the Treasury, I had rendered the country
valuable service, that I had dealt with vast sums without receiving the slightest benefit,
and at the close was humiliated by charges of petty larceny.  If I had recalled the experience
of Washington, Hamilton, Jefferson, Jackson and Blaine, and many others, under like accusations,
I would have been content with answering as Washington and Jackson did, or by silent indifference,
but my temperament led me to defy and combat with my accusers, however formidable or insignificant
they might be.

The annual message of President Arthur, submitted to Congress on the 6th of December, was a
creditable, businesslike statement of the condition of the government.  It commenced with a
very proper announcement of the appalling calamity which had fallen upon the American people
by the untimely death of President Garfield.

Our friendly relations with foreign nations were fully described, and the operations of the
different departments of the government during the past year were clearly and emphatically stated.

These and other questions connected with the subject were not acted upon by Congress, as it
could not foresee the conditions of the inabilities in advance of their occurrence.

At the regular meeting of the House of Representatives, on the 5th of December, 1881, J. Warren
Keifer was elected speaker by a small majority.  Both Houses were almost equally divided on
partisan lines.

On the same day, on my motion, a similar resolution, limiting the committee to eight, passed
the Senate.  The committees were duly appointed.

On the 27th of February, 1882, Mr. Blaine, in response to the resolution of the two Houses,
delivered an address, in the hall of House of Representatives, on the life and character of
President Garfield, worthy of the occasion, of the distinguished audience before him, and of
his reputation as an orator.  From the beginning to the end it was elevated in tone, eloquent
in the highest sense of that word, and warm in expression of his affection for the friend he
eulogized.  His delineation of Garfield as a soldier, an orator, and a man, in all the relations
of life, was without exaggeration, but was tinged with his personal friendship and love.  He
described him on the 2nd of July, the morning of his wounding, as a contented and happy man,
not in an ordinary degree, but joyfully, almost boyishly, happy.  "Great in life, he was surpassingly
great in death."  He pictured the long lingering illness that followed that fatal wound, the
patience of the sufferer, the unfaltering front with which he faced death, and his simple resignation
to the divine decree.  His peroration rose to the full measure of highest oratory.

Blaine died January 27, 1893.  Who now living could pronounce such a eulogy?

The following resolutions were adopted by both Houses of Congress:

"Resolved (the Senate concurring), That the thanks of Congress be presented to the Hon. James
G. Blaine, for the appropriate memorial address delivered by him on the life and services of
James Abram Garfield, late President of the United States, in the Representatives' Hall, before
both Houses of Congress and their invited guests, on the 27th day of February, 1882; and that
he be requested to furnish a copy for publication.

"Resolved, That the chairman of the joint committee appointed to make the necessary arrangements
to carry into effect the resolutions of this Congress, in relation to the memorial exercises
in honor of James Abram Garfield, be requested to communicate to Mr. Blaine the foregoing resolution,
receive his answer thereto, and present the same to both Houses of Congress."

At the time of the commencement of this session the credit of the United States had reached
high-water mark.  It was apparent that, with judicious management, a three per cent. bond of
the United States could be sold at par.  On the first day of the session, December 5, 1881,
I introduced a bill to provide for the issue of three per cent. bonds.  It was referred to
the committee on finance, and on the 15th of December, by direction of that committee, I reported
the bill with certain amendments, and gave notice that I was directed to seek the action of
the Senate upon it immediately after the holidays.  It was taken up for consideration on the
11th of January, and, much to my surprise, met with opposition from those who a year before
had favored a similar bill.  They said it was a mere expedient on my part, that President Hayes
had, at my request, vetoed a similar bill; but I was able to truly answer that the veto of
President Hayes was not against the three per cent. bond, but against the compulsory provision
that no other than three per cent. bonds should be deposited in the treasury as security for
the circulating notes of, and deposits with, national banks; that President Hayes, in fact,
approved of the three per cent. bond.

I made a speech in support of this measure on the 26th of January, reviewing our financial
condition, with many details in respect to our different loans, and closed as follows:

"I say now, as I said at the commencement, that the passage of this bill seems to me a matter
of public duty.  I care nothing for it personally.  I have been taunted with my inconsistency.
I feel like the Senator from Kentucky about an argument of that kind.  If I did not sometimes
change my mind I should consider myself a blockhead or a fool.  But in this matter, fortunately,
I have not changed my mind.  In 1866 I anticipated the time when we could sell three per cent.
bonds and said that was a part of the funding scheme, and so continued, year in and year out,
as I could show Senators, that that was the ultima thule, the highest point of credit to which
I looked in these refunding operations.  I believed last year it could not be done, because
I did not believe the state of the money market would justify the attempt, and, besides that,
the great mass of the indebtedness was so large that it might prevent the sale of three per
cent. bonds at par.  Therefore, I wanted a three and a half per cent. bill then.  But then
we secured the three and a half in spite of Congress, by the operations of the treasury department
and the consent of the bondholders, now we ought to do a little better.

"Let Congress do now what it proposed to do last year, offer to the people a three per cent.
bond.  If they do not take it no harm is done, no expense is incurred, no commissions are paid,
no advantage is taken.  If they do take it, they enable you to pay off more rapidly still your
three and a half per cent. bonds. There was no express and no implied obligation made by the
Senator from Minnesota, as he will himself say, that the people of the United States have the
right to pay every dollar of these three and a half per cent. bonds.  He had no power to make
such an intimation even, nor has he made it, as he states himself.  We are not restrained by
any sense of duty, we have the right to take advantage of our improved credit, of our advanced
credit, and make the best bargain we can for the people of the United States, and the doctrine
is not 'let well enough alone,' but always to advance.

"We are advancing in credit, in population, in strength, in power, in reason.  The work of
to-day is not the work of to-morrow; it is but the preparation for the future.  And, sir, if
I had my way in regard to these matters I certainly would repeal taxes; I would fortify ourselves
in Congress by reducing this large surplus revenue; I would regulate, by wise and separate
laws, fully and fairly considered, all the subjects embraced in these amendments as separate
and distinct measures, pass this bill which, to the extent it goes and to the extent it is
successful, will be beneficial to the people."

The debate upon the bill and upon amendments to it continued until the 3rd of February, when
it passed the Senate by the decided vote of 38 yeas, 18 nays.

Mr. Folger, Secretary of the Treasury, in his annual report of December 4, 1882, stated that
on July 1, 1882, the amount of three and a half per cent. bonds outstanding was $449,324,000,
and that under the section referred to he had exchanged to the date of his report $280,394,750
of three per cent. bonds for a like amount of three and a half per cent. bonds, thus reducing
the annual interest charge by reason of these exchanges $1,401,973.75.

By his report of 1883, it was shown that the total amount of such exchanges was $305,581,250,
making an annual saving of interest, effected by these exchanges, of $1,527,906.25.  These
bonds were subsequently paid from time to time by surplus revenue.

The whole process of refunding was perhaps as favorable a financial transaction as has ever
been executed in any country in the world.

A revision of the tariff was greatly needed, but the only measure adopted at that session was
an act to provide for the appointment of a commission to investigate the question of the tariff.
I made a speech on this bill in which I advocated the appointment of a commission.  I said:

"Mr. president, I have called attention to these defects in the present tariff, nearly all
of which have grown out of amendments that have been ingrafted on the Morrill tariff, by the
confusion caused by the difference between ad valorem and specific duties, by the great fall
in prices, by important changes in the mode of manufacturing, by, you may say, the revolution
in trade and prices that has occurred in the last twenty years, during which these laws have
existed.  Therefore, coming back to the first question stated by me, how best to get at a revision
of the tariff, I say the quickest way is the best way.

* * * * *

"Now, it does seem to me, with due deference to the opinion of the Senator from Kentucky, that
the quickest mode of revision is by a commission.  At the beginning of this session I believed
it was better to do it through the committees of the two Houses; but the committee on ways
and means of the House of Representatives alone has the power to report a bill, and until then
we in the Senate are as helpless as children in this matter.  The committee on ways and means
have declared in favor of a commission, and have reported a bill to that effect; and they are
the only power in this government that can report a tariff bill under the rules of the House.
The House is the only body that can originate it under the constitution. As they have decided
in favor of a commission, why should we insist upon it that they shall do the work themselves?

"Besides, half the session has passed away, and the committee on ways and means is burdened
with other duties.  We know that as the session approaches an end, they probably cannot devote
time to the general tariff question.

* * * * *

"If they will give us a bill about sugar and these other items, it is all we can reasonably
ask them to do.  When Congress adjourns, you cannot expect the committee on ways and means,
or any other committee of Congress, to devote all their recess to public business. Elections
are coming off for Members of Congress, and they will look after the elections.  They must
have a little rest.  Therefore, the idea of waiting for the committees of Congress to act,
is preposterous in my judgment.  It is too late.  If the committee had commenced on the first
Monday of December, they might by this time probably had prepared a bill.  They have made no
such preparation, and, therefore, it is utterly idle to wait.

"I think, then, and I submit it to the good, cool sense and judgment of my friend from Kentucky,
that the better way is as early as possible to organize a commission; let it be constituted,
as I have no doubt the President will take care to constitute it, of fair and impartial men.
They will be fresh at least.  Let them frame a bill with the aid of officers of the treasury
department, so that by the next session we may have a general revision of the tariff.

"Upon the main question there appears to be no substantial difference of opinion.  We agree
that the tariff should be revised and the taxes be reduced.  The only pertinent question involved
in this bill is whether it is best to organize a commission of experts, not Members of Congress,
to examine the whole subject and to report such facts and information to Congress as the commission
can gather, or whether the proposed revision should be made directly, without the delay of
a commission, by the aid of committees of Congress and the officers of the government familiar
with the workings of the customs laws.  It does seem to me that to decide this question we
need no long arguments about protection or free trade, watchwords of opposing schools of political
economy, nor does it seem to me that the political bearings of the tariff question are involved
when we all agree that the tariff ought to be revised, and are now only finding out the best
way to get at it.

"Whenever a tariff bill is reported to us we will have full time to discuss the theoretical
and political aspects of the subject, and no doubt the arguments already made will be repeated
and amplified.  I prophesy that then we will have a strange mingling of political elements,
and a striking evidence of the changes of interest and principle on this subject in different
parts of the country, caused by the revolution of the industry of our people by the abolition
of slavery during the Civil War.  The only mitigation of my desire for a prompt revision of
the tariff is the confidence I have that delay and discussion will make the sectional revolution
more thorough and universal, and leave the tariff question a purely business and not a political
or sectional issue."

The nine commissioners appointed by President Arthur were well selected, and they were, under
the law, required to report on that subject to the following session of Congress.

It became necessary at this session to extend the corporate existence of national banks.  By
the terms of the original national banking act, banks organized under it continued for but
twenty years, which would expire within two years.  A bill for the extension of the time was
introduced and a long discussion followed about silver, certificates of deposit, clearing house
certificates and other financial matters.  There was but little if any opposition to the extension
of national banks and the bill passed.  It was approved July 12, 1882.

The most important financial measure passed by this Congress was the bill to reduce internal
revenue taxes, reported March 29, 1882, by William D. Kelley, of Pennsylvania, from the committee
of ways and means.  After a debate extending to June 27, a motion to recommit was rejected
and the bill passed the House.  It was sent to the Senate and reported with amendments by Mr.
Morrill, from the committee on finance, July 6.  On July 11 it was recommitted to the committee
on finance and immediately reported back with amendments, which consisted of a change in the
tariff duties on sugar and an increase of the duties on cotton, ties and a few other things.
It was not a general revision of the tariff.  Mr. Beck antagonized the amendments proposed
by the committee and sought to delay the passage of the bill.  I replied to him as follows:

"If this Congress shall adjourn, whether the weather be hot or cold, without a reduction of
the taxes now imposed upon the people, it will have been derelict in its highest duty.  There
is no sentiment in this country stronger now than that Congress has neglected its duty thus
far in not repealing taxes that are obnoxious to the people and unnecessary for the public
uses; and if we should still neglect that duty we should be properly held responsible by our
constituents."

In the course of the long debate Mr. Vance, of North Carolina, who was the acknowledged wit
of the Senate, moved to except playing cards from the general repeal of stamp taxes.  I objected
to keeping up the system of stamp taxes and said:

"If Senators want to insist on a piece of what I call demagogism, by keeping a small stamp
tax on playing cards, I am perfectly willing that they should do so.  If it is desired now
to show our virtuous indignation against card-playing, to single out this tax, which probably
yields but three or four thousand dollars a year-- to show our virtuous indignation against
people who play cards and against card-playing, let it be done in the name of Heaven.  Let
us keep this as a monument of our virtue and intelligence and the horror of the Senate of the
United States against playing whist and euchre.  I hope that no such vote will be given."

Mr. Vance replied in his peculiarly humorous way, and concluded by saying:  "I have no doubt
that not a men in the United States, but who, when he 'stands pat' with three jacks, or draws
to two aces, will glorify the name of the Senator from Ohio; and if there is gratitude in human
nature, I expect the see the next edition of playing cards bearing a fullsized portrait of
the Senator from Ohio as the distinguishing mark of the 'yerker.'"

The Senate was equally divided on this question of retaining the tax on playing cards, the
vote being 28 for and 28 against.  As there was not a majority in favor of the amendment of
Mr. Vance it was rejected and the tax was repealed.

Mr. Beck undertook to amend the bill by a general revision and reduction of the tariff duties
in long schedules introduced by him. I took an active part in the discussion of this bill in
the hope that by it we might secure a logical and desirable revenue law. No final action was
taken on it before the adjournment of Congress on the 8th of August, after an eight months'
session, and it went over to the next session.

After the long and wearisome session I returned to Mansfield.  The congressional canvass in
Ohio was then in full operation.  The failure of Congress to pass the bill relieving the people
from the burden of internal taxes no longer required, the shadow of the murder of Garfield,
the dislike and prejudice against Arthur's administration, the temporary stringency in money
matters, the liquor or license question, the Sunday observance, and the discontent of German
Republicans, greatly weakened the Republican party in the state and foreboded defeat.  R. A.
Horr was the Republican candidate for Congress in the district in which I reside, and on the
17th of August he spoke at Mansfield.  I also made a brief speech covering the chief subjects
under discussion.  I explained the causes of the failure to pass the revenue reduction bill,
blaming it, as a matter of course, on the Democratic party, but assured my hearers that it
would pass at the next session, and that the surplus revenue would not be wasted, but would
be applied to the reduction of the public debt, and to increase pensions to Union soldiers,
their widows and orphans.  The opposition to the immigration of Chinese into this country was
then strong.  I could only promise that Congress would do all it could to exclude them consistently
with treaty stipulations.  I favored the proper observance of the Sabbath day, claiming that
it was a day of rest and should not be desecrated, but each congregation and each citizen should
be at liberty to observe it in any way, consistent with good order and noninterference with
others.  Touching on the liquor question, I said that many of our young men were brought to
disgrace and crime by indulgence in intoxicating liquors, and I therefore believed in regulating
the evil.  Why should all other business be suspended, and saloons only be open?  I was in
favor of a law imposing a large tax on all dealers in liquor, which would tend to prevent its
use.  I believed in a policy that would protect our own laborers from undue competition with
foreign labor, and would increase and develop our home industries.  This position was chiefly
a defensive one, and experience has proven that it is not a safe one.  The Republican party
is stronger when it is aggressive.

On the 31st of August I attended the state fair as usual, and on the morning of that day made
a full and formal political address covering both state and national interests.  I quote a
few passages on the liquor question, then the leading subject of state policy. I said:

"All laws are a restraint upon liberty.  We surrender some of our natural rights for the security
of the rest.  The only question is, where is the boundary between rights reserved and those
given up?  And the only answer is, wherever the general good will be promoted by the surrender.
In a republic the personal liberty of the citizen to do what he wishes should not be restricted,
except when it is clear that it is for the interest of the public at large. There are three
forms of legislative restriction:  Prohibition, regulation and taxation, of which taxation
is the mildest.  We prohibit crime, we regulate and restrain houses of bad fame.  We tax whisky
and beer.  I see no hardship in such restraints upon liberty.  They are all not only for the
public good, but for the good of those affected.  If certain social enjoyments are prolific
of vice and crime they must give way, or submit to restraints or taxation.

"I know it is extremely difficult to define the line between social habits and enjoyments perfectly
innocent and proper and those that are injurious to all concerned.  It is in this that the
danger lies, for the law ought never to interfere with social happiness and innocent enjoyments.
The fault of Americans is that they are not social enough.  I have seen on the banks of the
Rhine, and in Berlin, old and young men, women, children of all conditions of social life,
listening to music, playing their games and drinking their beer, doing no wrong and meaning
none.  I have seen in the villages of France the young people dancing gayly, with all the animation
of youth and innocence, while the old people, looking on, were chatting and joking and drinking
their native wines, and I could see no wrong in all this.

"But there were other scenes in these and other countries:  Ginshops and haunts of vice where
the hand of authority was seen and felt. What I contend for is that the lawmaking power shall
be authorized to make the distinction between innocent and harmful amusements and the places
and habits of life which eventually lead to intemperance, vice and crime.  Surely we can leave
to our general assembly, chosen by the people and constantly responsible to them, the framing
of such wise regulations, distinction and taxes as will discriminate between enjoyment and
vicious places of resort.

"It is a reproach to our legislative capacity to allow free whisky to be sold, untaxed and
without regulation, at tens of thousands of groggeries and saloons, lest some law should be
passed to restrain the liberty of the citizen.  What we want is a wise, discriminating tax
law on the traffic in intoxicating liquors, and judicious legislation to restrain, as far as
practicable, the acknowledged evils that flow from this unlimited traffic."

This speech expressed my convictions in respect to temperance, and how far this and kindred
subjects should be regulated by legislative authority.  This was a delicate subject, but I
believe the opinions expressed by me were generally entertained by the people of Ohio and would
have been fully acted upon by the legislature but for revenue restrictions in the constitution
of Ohio.

After I closed Governor Foster and Speaker Keifer spoke briefly. The general canvass then continued
over the state until the election. As the only state officers to be elected were the secretary
of state, a supreme judge and a member of the board of public works, the chief interest centered
in the liquor question and in the election of Members of Congress in doubtful districts.  I
spoke in several districts, especially in Elyria, Warren, Wauseon, Tiffin and Zanesville. 
I spent several days in Cincinnati, socially, and in speaking in different parts of the city.
The result of the election was that James W. Newman, the Democratic candidate for secretary
of state, received a majority of 19,000 over Charles Townsend, the Republican candidate.  This
was heralded as a Democratic victory.  In one sense this was true, but it was properly attributed
by the Republicans to the opposition to prohibition.  It grew out of the demand of a portion
of our people for free whisky and no Sunday. THey were opposed to the liquor law, and believed
it went too far, and voted the Democratic ticket.

A few days after the election I went with two friends to Lawrence, Kansas, arriving about the
15th of October.  I have always retained a kindly feeling for the people of that state since
I shared in the events of its early history.  With each visit I have marked the rapid growth
of the state and the intense politics that divided its people into several parties.  This was
the natural outgrowth of conditions and events before the Civil War.  As usual I was called
upon to make a speech in Lawrence, which, in view of our recent defeat in Ohio, was not a pleasant
task.  However, I accepted, and spoke at the opera house, chiefly on the early history of Kansas
and the struggle in that territory and state, which resulted in transforming the United States
from a confederacy of hostile states into a powerful republic founded upon the principles of
universal liberty and perpetual union.

From Lawrence we went into Texas, and for the first time traversed that magnificent state,
going from Denison to Laredo on the Rio Grande, stopping on the way at Austin and San Antonio.
On the route I met Senator Richard Coke and his former colleague, Samuel B. Maxey.  I have
studied the history of Texas and its vast undeveloped resources, and anticipated its growth
in wealth and population.  It is destined to be, if not the first, among the first, of the
great states of the Union.  We returned via Texarkana to St. Louis and thence home.

The President was able to present, in his annual message to Congress on the 4th of December,
1882, a very favorable statement of the condition of the United States during the preceding
year.  The surplus revenue for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1881, amounted to $100,000,000,
and for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1882, it amounted to more than $145,000,000.  This
was applied to the payment of the public debt.  He therefore urged upon Congress the policy
of diminishing the revenue by reducing taxation.  He then stated at length his opinion of the
reductions that ought to be made.  He felt justified in recommending the abolition of all internal
taxes except those upon tobacco in its various forms, and upon distilled spirits and fermented
liquors.  The message was a clear and comprehensive statement of the existing tariff system,
and the unequal distribution of both its burdens and its benefits. The subsequent action of
Congress did not, in my opinion, conform to this, in some respects, wise recommendation of
the President.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury emphasized and elaborated the recommendations of
the President.

The real cause of the delay of the Senate at the previous session, in acting upon the internal
revenue bill, was the desire to await the action of the tariff commission appointed under the
act approved May 15, 1882.  To secure a comprehensive scheme of taxation it was necessary to
include in a revenue bill duties on imported goods as well as taxes on internal productions.
The members of the tariff commission appointed by the President, and who signed the report,
were John L. Hayes, Henry W. Oliver, A. M. Garland, J. A. Ambler, Robert P. Porter, J. W. H.
Underwood, Alexander R. Boteler, and Duncan F. Kenner.  These gentlemen were of high standing,
representing different parts of the country, of both political parties, and notably familiar
with our internal and external commerce and productions.  In their report they said:

"In performance of the duty devolved upon them, all the members of the commission have aimed,
and, as they believe, with success, to divest themselves of political bias, sectional prejudice,
or considerations of personal interest.  It is their desire that their recommendations shall
serve no particular party, class, section, or school of political economy."

They transmitted their report to the speaker of the House of Representatives on the 4th of
December, 1882.  It was a clear and business-like statement of their action, accompanied with
schedules of duties on imported goods recommended by them, with suggested amendments to existing
customs laws, with testimony taken by them, and with tables and reports covering, in all, over
2,500 printed pages.  It was by far the most comprehensive exposition of our customs laws and
rates of duty that, so far as I know, had been published.  It was quickly printed for the use
of the finance committee of the Senate, before whom the bill to reduce internal revenue taxation
was pending.  If the committee had embodied, in this bill, the recommendations of the tariff
commission, including the schedules without amendment or change, the tariff would have been
settled for many years.  Unfortunately this was not done, but the schedules prescribing the
rates of duty and their classification were so radically changed by the committee that the
scheme of the tariff commission was practically defeated.  Many persons wishing to advance
their particular industries appeared before the committee and succeeded in having their views
adopted.  The Democratic members seemed to take little interest in the proceedings, as they
were opposed to the adoption of the tariff as a part of the bill.  I did all I could to prevent
these changes, was very much discouraged by the action of the committee, and doubted the propriety
of voting for the bill with the tariff provisions as proposed by the committee and adopted
by the Senate.  I have always regretted that I did not defeat the bill, which I could readily
have done by voting with the Democrats against the adoption of the conference report, which
passed the Senate by the vote of yeas 32, nays 30.  However, the propriety and necessity of
a reduction of internal taxes proposed by the bill were so urgent that I did not feel justified
in denying relief from burdensome and unnecessary taxes on account of provisions in the bill
that I did not approve.  With great reluctance I voted for it.

One reduction made by the committee against my most strenuous efforts was by a change in the
classification and rates of the duty on wool.  When I returned to Ohio I was violently assailed
by the Democratic newspapers for voting for a bill that reduced the existing duty on wool about
twenty per cent., and I had much difficulty in explaining to my constituents that I opposed
the reduction, but, when the Senate refused to adopt by view, did not feel justified, on account
of my opposition to this one item, in voting against the bill as a whole.  The conference report
was agreed to by the House of Representatives on the 2nd of March, and the bill was approved
by the President on the 3rd.

I did not conceal my opposition to the tariff sections of the revenue bill.  I expressed it
in debate, in interviews and in letters.  When the bill was reported to the Senate it was met
by two kinds of opposition, one the blind party opposition of free traders, led by Senators
Beck and Vance, the other (much more dangerous), the conflict of selfish and local interests,
mainly on the part of manufacturers, who regarded all articles which they purchased as raw
material, on which they wished the lowest possible rate of duty, or none at all, and their
work, as the finished article, on which they wished the highest rate of duty.  In other words,
what they had to buy they called raw material to be admitted without protection, and what they
had to sell they wanted protection. It was a combination of the two kinds of opposition that
made the trouble.

The Democratic Senators, with a few exceptions, voted steadily and blindly for any reduction
of duty proposed; but they alone could not carry their amendments, and only did so when re-enforced
by Republican Senators, who, influenced by local interest, could reduce any duty at their pleasure.
In this way, often by a majority of one, amendments were adopted that destroyed the harmony
of the bill.  In this way iron ore, pig iron, scrap iron and wool were sacrificed in the Senate.
They were classed as raw materials for manufactures and not as manufactures.  For selfish and
local reasons tin plates, cotton, ties and iron and steel rods for wire were put at exceptionally
low rates, and thus were stricken from the list of articles that could be manufactured in this
country.  This local and selfish appeal was the great defect of the tariff bill.  I do not
hesitate to say that the iron and wool sections of the bill, as it passed the Senate, were
unjust, incongruous and absurd.  They would have reduced the iron and steel industries of the
United States to their condition before the war, and have closed up two- thirds of the furnaces
and rolling mills in this country.  They were somewhat changed in the committee of conference,
but if they had not been, the only alternative to the manufacturers would have been to close
up or largely reduce the wages of labor.

Another mistake made in the Senate was to strike out all the carefully prepared legislative
provisions simplifying the mode of collecting customs duties, and the provisions for the trial
of customs cases.  The tariff commission proposed to repeal the ad valorem duty on wool, and
leave on it only the specific duty of ten and twelve cents a pound.  The chairman of the tariff
commission was himself the president or agent of the woolen manufacturers and made the report.
The manufacturers of woolens, however, were dissatisfied, and demanded an entire change in
the classification of woolens, and, on some important grades, a large increase of rates, but
insisted upon a reduction of the duty on wool.

I hoped when the bill passed the Senate that a conference committee would amend it, but, unfortunately
Senators Bayard and Beck withdrew from the conference and the Senate was represented by Senators
Morrill, Aldrich and Sherman.  My colleagues on the conference were part of the majority in
the Senate, and favored the bill, and the House conferees seemed concerned chiefly in getting
some bill of relief, some reduction of taxes, before the close of the session.

On the 13th of March, 1883, in reply to a question of a correspondent whether I had any objection
to having my views reported, I said:

"No, sir; the contest is now over, and I see no reason why the merits and demerits of the law
should not be stated.  I worked at it with the finance committee for three months, to the exclusion
of other business.  Taken as a whole, I think the law will do a great deal of good and some
harm.  The great body of it is wise and just, but it contains some serious defects.  The metallic
and wool schedules are unequal and unjust.  The great merit of the bill is that it reduces
taxes.  I would not have voted for it, if any other way had been open to reduce taxes.

"Was there any urgent necessity for reducing taxes?"

"Yes.  The demand for a reduction of taxes was general, and, in respect to some taxes, pressing
and imperative.  The failure of Congress to reduce taxes was one of the chief causes of the
defeat of the Republican party last fall, though it was not really the fault of our party.
The bill was talked to death by Democratic Senators.  The taxes levied by the United States
are not oppressive, but they are excessive.  They tempt extravagance.  We could not go home
without reducing the internal taxes.  What I want you to emphasize is, that the tariff sections
could not have passed in their present shape but for their connection with the internal revenue
sections.  We could not separate them; therefore, though I voted against the tariff sections
of the Senate bill, I felt constrained to vote for the bill as a whole."

"Is not the bill, as it passed, substantially the bill of the tariff commission?"

"No, sir; the tariff commission had nothing to do with internal taxes.  The internal revenue
sections were in the House bill of last session, and were then amended by the Senate.  That
bill gave the Senate jurisdiction of the subject.  It was only under cover of amendment to
that bill that the Senate could pass a tariff.  At the beginning of this session, the finance
committee of the Senate had before it the tariff commission report, which was an admirable
and harmonious plan for a complete law fixing the rates of duty on all kinds of imported merchandise,
and, what was better, an admirable revision of the laws for the collection of duties and for
the trial of customs cases.  If the committee had adopted this report, and even had reduced
the rates of duty proposed by the commission, but preserved the harmony and symmetry of the
plan, we would have had a better tariff law than has existed in this country.  But, instead
of this, the committee unduly reduced the duties on iron and steel, and raised the duties on
cotton and woolen manufactures, in some cases higher than the old tariff.  The committee restored
nearly all the inequalities and incongruities of the old tariff, and yielded to local demands
and local interests to an extent that destroyed all symmetry or harmony.  But still the bill
reported to the Senate was a passable tariff except as to iron and wool; but it was not in
any respect an improvement on the tariff commission report."

Senator Morrill, in a long letter to the New York "Tribune" of the date of April 28, 1883,
made a reply to my objections to the tariff amendment, but it did not change my opinion, and
now, after the lapse of many years, I am still of the same opinion.  The tariff act of 1883
laid the foundation for all the tariff complications since that time.

During this session a bill to regulate and improve the civil service of the United States was
reported by my colleague, Mr. Pendleton, and was made the subject of an interesting debate
in the Senate, which continued most of the month of December, 1882.  It was referred to the
committee on reform in the civil service in the House of Representatives, was promptly reported,
and, after a brief debate, passed that body and was approved by the President.  This important
measure provided for a nonpartisan civil service commission composed of three persons, and
defined their duties.  It withdrew from party politics the great body of the employees of the
government.  Though not always wisely executed it has been the basis of reforms in the civil
service, and, with some amendments to promote its efficiency, is now in successful operation.

The tendency of all parties is to include under civil service rules all employments in the
executive branch of the government, except those that, by the constitution, are appointed by
the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.  If to this should be added
an imperative provision of law forbidding any Member of Congress from applying for the appointment
of any person to an executive office, the abuses of the old system would be corrected and the
separate departments of the government would be independent of each other.  My experience as
an executive officer convinced me that such a mandatory provision would not only break up the
"spoils system," but would relieve the President and heads of departments, as well as Members
of Congress, from much of the friction that often disturbs them in the discharge of their separate
duties.

Before I returned home in the spring of 1883, the nomination of a candidate for governor was
being canvassed in the press and among the people of Ohio.  My name, among others, was mentioned,
but I did not take any interest in the suggestion of my nomination, supposing it was a passing
thought that, upon reflection, would be abandoned.  No one could then foresee how the legislature
to be elected in the fall would stand politically, and my friends would hardly risk the loss
of a Republican Senator, through my resignation, to compliment me with an election as governor.

I returned to Ohio early in April, and, as usual, paid my respects to the general assembly,
then in session at Columbus.  I was kindly received and expressed my thanks as follows:

"Gentlemen of the general assembly, I thank you for this hearty reception.  In this house of
speechmakers I will be pardoned for not making an address.  You are the representatives of
the people, and to you I owe my first allegiance, doing as best I can the will of the people
of Ohio and of the United States, without respect to party, creed or condition.  In the closing
hours of your session you are too much engaged for me to indulge in any remarks, and so I bid
you good-bye.  Again, gentlemen, I return my warmest thanks."

I was received in the same manner in the senate.  I found a much stronger feeling in favor
of my nomination for governor than I expected.  I therefore stated definitely that I could
not be a candidate, and a few days afterwards, in reply to an editor who was entitled to a
frank answer, as to whether my name was to be at the head of the state ticket, I said:

"I am not a candidate, never have been, and could not accept the gubernatorial nomination under
any circumstances.  It is out of the question.  There was a manifest disposition at one time
to run me nolens volens, but my friends now understand my position fully, and will not press
the point.  It is as though the possibility had never been suggested, and the less said about
it the better."

This declaration was variously regarded by the newspapers; by one as a proclamation of a panic,
by another as a doubt of success, by another as a selfish desire to hold on to a better office,
neither of which was true.  While I did not wish the nomination, I would have felt it my duty
to accept it if the convention had determined that my acceptance was necessary for success.
Upon my return to Mansfield in May, in an interview with a reporter, I mentioned several able
men in the state who were well qualified for that office.  I spoke of Judge Foraker as one
who would make an acceptable candidate.  I did not then know him personally, but from what
I had heard of him I preferred him to any other person named.  He was young, active, eloquent
and would make a good canvass.  At that time there was a movement to push the nomination of
Thurman and Sherman as competing candidates.  The state convention was approaching and I had
been invited to attend.  I went to Columbus on the 5th of June.  All sorts of rumors were being
circulated.  The general trend of them was thus stated by a leading Republican journal:

"The question is being quietly discussed by a number of prominent Republicans, and the movement
promises to assume such proportions before the day of the convention, that it will result in
the nomination of Senator Sherman for governor.  It has been stated that Mr. Sherman would
not accept, yet one of the most prominent of Ohio Republicans says, with emphasis:  'Mr. John
Sherman has been honored for the last thirty years by the Republican party, and he could not
afford to decline the nomination, and he would not.'  The great interest manifested throughout
the country in Ohio, is such that it is deemed wise, owing to existing circumstances, to insist
on the nomination of Mr. Sherman, thereby avoiding all contest in the convention, and giving
a national prominence to the campaign.  Should this be done, as it is now believed that it
will be, the nomination of ex-Senator Thurman, by the Democrats, would be a foregone conclusion."

As the delegates arrived it was apparent that there was a general desire that I should be nominated,
and several delegations came to my room to urge me to accept.  Among others who came to me
were Messrs. Jones, Johnson and Fassett, of the Mahoning county delegation. After some general
conversation they said that in order that they might act with a full knowledge of the situation,
and with reference to the best interests of the party, they desired to ask me if I was or would
be a candidate for the nomination of governor.  I answered directly, and plainly, that I was
not a candidate; would not and could not become one.  I said I was sorry that matters had shaped
themselves as they had, as I was put in the position of refusing to obey the call of my party,
that I believed it was the place of every man to take any responsibility that could be put
upon him, but that, in my case, my duty was in another direction, that I thought my place then
was in the Senate, and that the possible danger of a Democratic successor there ought to be
avoided.

The convention met on the morning after my arrival, and I was selected as chairman.  I was
not aware until I arrived in Columbus that I was to preside over the convention, but, as customary
on taking the chair, I made an address thanking the convention for the honor conferred upon
me, briefly reviewed the history of the Republican party, spoke of the tariff, the liquor and
other questions which would have to be met in the canvass, and appealed to all present to unite
and use their utmost endeavors for success.

Notwithstanding my repeated statements that I could not accept the nomination, J. M. Dalzell
arose from the ranks of the delegation from his district, in the rear part of the hall, and,
mounting his seat, made an enthusiastic speech nominating me for governor.  I declined in the
following words:

"Gentlemen of the Convention:--I have not been insensible to the desire of many gentlemen and
personal friends to put my name in nomination for governor.  But let me say frankly but firmly
that I cannot be your candidate.  In order that I may not be misunderstood, I desire your attention
for a few moments, to state my reasons for declining the nomination.  I have been under so
many obligations to the Republican party of Ohio, that, if this was merely a matter of personal
interest or feeling, I would say 'yes!'  But, I cannot accept this nomination.  First, because
you have charged me with the duty of a Member of the Senate of the United States; and I could
not surrender that, with my sense of what is just, not only to the people of Ohio, but to the
people of the United States. And I will say that that view is shared by many of my associates
in the Senate.  They deprecate any movement of this kind on account of the condition of affairs
there.  But, aside from that, there is one consideration that would prevent me from becoming
a candidate now.  When early applied to on this subject, I stated to the gentlemen whose names
were mentioned to come before this convention, that I was not a candidate and would not be
a candidate.  I could not accept your nomination without a feeling of personal dishonor, and
that you certainly do not wish to bring upon me.  Although all of you, my Republican friends,
would know I was sincere in that declaration, yet the censorious world at large would say that
I had not acted a manly part; I could not bear an imputation of that kind.  So that, even if
the nomination were presented to me with a unanimous feeling in this convention, yet I would
feel bound, by a feeling of personal honor, which is the higher law, especially among Republicans,
to decline."

The convention then nominated Joseph R. Foraker for governor by acclamation.  He was introduced
to the convention and made a long and pleasant address.  His speech was well received and he
was often interrupted with cheers.  He was then about thirty-seven years old, and was but little
known throughout the state, but his appearance, manner, and address satisfied the convention
and he was at once recognized as a man of ability, who would take and hold a prominent place
in the political history of the state.  He had enlisted as a boy at Camp Dennison at the early
age of sixteen, and rapidly rose through the military grades until, at Mission Ridge, he commanded
two companies and led them over the ridge into the enemy's works, being the first man of his
regiment over the ridge.  He was with Sherman on his celebrated march to the sea. My brother
spoke of him in the highest terms of praise.  After the war he entered college at Delaware,
rapidly advanced through college and completed his study of law, and at an early age was elected
to a five years' term as a judge of the superior court of Cincinnati. He is now in the meridian
of his intellectual strength, and will, in all human probability, attain higher distinction.

The rest of the ticket was soon completed by the nomination of strong candidates for each of
the offices to be filled at that election.

From the beginning of this canvass it was known that the result was doubtful, not only on national
issues, but, on the recent legislation in Ohio, on the much mooted liquor question.

The "Scott" law imposed a tax on dealers in liquors and beer, and also proposed two temperance
amendments which were submitted to the people.  The constitution of Ohio declares that "no
license to traffic in intoxicating liquors shall hereafter be grated in this state, but the
general assembly may, by law, provide against evils resulting therefrom."

As to the status of the legislation in Ohio in 1883, I said during this canvass that, under
this provision, the legislature of Ohio for thirty years had, from time to time, passed laws
to prevent the evils that arose from the sale of intoxicating liquors, but without effect.
The constitution so limited the powers of the general assembly that it could only pass prohibitory
and punitive laws.  It could not regulate by money license the sale of liquors. Both parties
joined in this kind of legislation, but it was safe to say that all the laws on the subject
were substantially nullified by popular opinion, or by inability in cities and large towns
to enforce them.  Thus, in Ohio, we had, for more than thirty years, free whisky, without restraint,
without taxation, to a degree that probably did not exist in any other state of the Union,
or any other Christian or civilized country.  Two years before, the Republican party, in convention
at Cleveland, declared itself in favor of an amendment to the constitution which would give
the general assembly full legislative power over the traffic, free from the restraint of the
old constitution.  The legislature, instead of acting upon this proposition, postponed it,
and passed what was known as the Pond bill.  The supreme court declared that law unconstitutional,
as being within the meaning of the inhibition of the constitution.  Thus, at the previous election,
the Republican party appeared before the people of the state when they were discontented alike
with the action of the general assembly and of Congress for its failure to reduce taxes, and
so we were badly beaten by the staying from the polls of 70,000 Republican voters.

The causes of this defeat were apparent to every intelligent man. The general assembly, however,
at the next session, met the temperance question in a different spirit.  It submitted to the
people two proposed amendments to the constitution, one providing for full legislative control
over the traffic in spirits, and the other providing for the absolute prohibition of the traffic.
Pending the action of the people on these two amendments, the legislature provided by a law,
called the Scott law, for a tax of $200 annually on the sale of spirituous liquors and $100
on the sale of beer. This law was held to be constitutional by the supreme court of Ohio. 
This action of the legislature had been approved by the Republican state convention.

Upon the question thus presented there was a division of opinion in the Republican party. 
On the one hand, a large body of Republicans, mostly Germans in the large cities, regarded
this legislation as an attempt to interfere with their habit of drinking beer, which they regarded
as a harmless beverage.  On the other hand, the disciples of total abstinence were opposed
to the "Scott" law as a license to sell and drink intoxicating liquors, which license, they
alleged, was wrong and against public policy.  They were for prohibition outright; they regarded
the tax law as a covenant with hell, and nominated a ticket to represent their principles.
The Democratic party occupied a position of opposition to every proposition about the liquor
laws.  They placed in nomination, as their candidate for governor, George H. Hoadley, an eminent
lawyer, and able speaker and a man of good character and standing.  He had been an earnest
Republican during and since the war, but had followed the wake of Chase, and joined the Democratic
party.

The tariff issue also entered into this canvass.  The farmers of Ohio complained that the duty
on wool had been reduced, while the duties on woolen goods were increased; that protection
was given to the manufacturer and denied to the farmer.  A great outcry was made by Democratic
orators and newspapers in farming communities against this injustice, and I was selected as
the leader and author of it.  Handbills were freely demonstrated by the Democratic committee
in public places, denouncing me as the wicked destroyer of the sheep industry of Ohio farmers.
I replied that it was true that in the recent tariff act there was a reduction of the duty
on wool of about two cents a pound, but that I had opposed it, and did all I could to prevent
it, but it was carried by the united vote of the Democratic party in both Houses, aided by
a few Republican Senators and Members from New England.  I denounced the hypocrisy of those
who assailed me, whose representatives voted for even a greater reduction, and some of them
for free wool.  To all this they answered:  "Did you not vote for the bill on its passage?"
I had to say yes, but gave the reasons why, as already stated.  No doubt, in spite of the unfairness
of this accusation, it had some adverse influence on the election.

This canvass was in many respects a peculiar one.  Foraker was active and spoke in nearly every
county in the state, and gave general satisfaction, but Hoadley was equally able and, having
been until recently a Republican, could not be held responsible for the course of the Democratic
party during and since the war.  Both the candidates for governor being from Cincinnati, the
struggle there was more intense than usual, and was made to turn on the liquor question more
than on general politics.  When I was asked about the German vote, I said:

"The Germans are, generally speaking, good Republicans, and are really a temperate people.
They have always claimed to be willing to pay a tax on the sale of beer and other kinds of
liquor.  The Scott bill is very moderate--more so than the bills that are being passed in other
states.  If they mean what they say, I don't think there will be any trouble about electing
our ticket."

Immediately after the convention, in company with my townsmen, George F. Carpenter, Henry C.
Hedges and M. Hammond, I started on a trip to Helena, Montana.  The object was simply recreation
and sight-seeing.  We stopped on the way at Chicago, St. Paul and other points.  Everywhere
we went we met interviewers who wanted to know about the Ohio convention and politics in general,
but I preferred to talk about the great northwest.  Interviews were sought by reporters and
were fully given and printed in local papers.  Hedges and Carpenter were intelligent gentlemen
interested, like myself, in Chicago and St. Paul, and more familiar than I was with the local
geography of Wisconsin and Minnesota.  With their assistance I became conversant with the topography
and productions of these states.  I was especially impressed with the growth of St. Paul and
Minneapolis.  I had purchased, in connection with Mr. Cullen, some years before, forty acres
of land adjoining St. Paul.  Upon my arrival on this trip he showed me the land, worth then
more thousands than the hundreds we paid for it.  This was but a specimen of the abnormal growth
of these sister cities, destined, in some not far distant day, to be a single city.  From St.
Paul, we went to Helena, then the terminus of the Northern Pacific railroad, and the newly
made capital of Montana.  This was the second time I had visited this territory, now a state.
I studied, as well as I could, its wonderful resources, both mineral and agricultural.  It
is properly named Montana.  Its mountains are not only filled with minerals of every grade
from gold to iron, but they contain, more than any other part of the country, the freaks of
nature and in bolder form, such as geysers, sink pots, mountain lakes, deep ravines, and they
are surrounded by vast valleys and plains, the native home of the buffalo, now the feeding
ground of vast droves of horses, herds of cattle, and flocks of sheep.

The strangely varied surface of the different states of the Union would, in case of war with
any power, enable us, from our own soil and from the riches buried under it, to support and
maintain our population.  Already more than nine-tenths of the articles needed for life and
luxury in the United States are the product of the industry of our countrymen.  The remaining
tenth consists mainly of tea, coffee and other tropical or semi-tropical productions, the products
of nations with whom we can have no occasion for war. Articles of luxury and virtu are mainly
the production of European nations.

Our partial state of isolation is our greatest strength, our varied resources and productions
are our greatest wealth, and unity in national matters, independence in local matters, are
the central ideas of our system of government.

On our return we stopped for a day at Bismarck, Dakota, then a scattered village, but already
putting on airs as the prospective capital.  We passed through St. Paul, Milwaukee, Grand Rapids
and Detroit on our way to Mansfield.  This trip, leisurely taken, occupied about one month.

During the remainder of the summer, until the canvass commenced, I had a period of rest and
recuperation.  It was interrupted only by the necessity of making some preparation for the
canvass, which it was understood was to commence on the 25th of August.  I carefully dictated
my opening speech, which was delivered at Findlay on that day to a large audience.  It was
printed and circulated, but most of the points discussed have been settled by the march of
time. Some of them it may be of interest to recall.  I contrasted the condition of Findlay
then to Findlay when I first saw it, but if the contrast was to be made now it would be more
striking.  I described the formation and history of parties as they then existed, and assumed
that as Hoadley, who had been an Abolitionist or Republican and a supporter of the war, was
then the Democratic candidate for governor, and that as Ewing and Bookwalter, the latest Democratic
candidates for governor, had also been Republicans, we could assume this as a confession that
the measures of the Republican party were right.  I said:  "All these distinguished and able
gentlemen have been Republican partisans, as I have; and Judge Hoadley has, I think, been rather
more free in his denunciation of the Democratic party than I have.  To the extent, therefore,
of acquiescence in the great issues that have divided us in the past, the Democratic party
concedes that we were right."

I then presented the liquor question and the Scott law.  I defended the tax imposed by this
law as a wise tax, the principle of which had been adopted in most of the states and in the
chief countries of Europe.  Hoadley, instead of meeting this argument fairly, attacked the
proposed amendments to the constitution prohibiting the sale of spirits and beer as a part
of the creed of the Republican party, instead of a mere reference to the people of a disputed
policy.  This was the display of the skill of the trained lawyer to evade the real issue of
the "Scott" bill.  He treated the reduction of the duty on wool with the same dexterity, charging
it upon the Republican party, when he knew that every Democratic vote had been cast for it,
and for even a greater reduction, and that nearly every Republican vote had been cast against
it.  The entire canvass of Hoadley was an ingenious evasion of the real issues, and in its
want of frankness and fairness was in marked contrast with the speeches of Foraker.

After the Findlay meeting I went to Cincinnati and attended the harvest home festival in Green
township, and read an address on the life and work of A. J. Downing, a noted horticulturalist
and writer on rural architecture.  I have always been interested in such subjects and was conversant
with Downing's writings and works, especially with his improvement of the public parks in and
about Washington.  He was employed by the President of the United States in 1851, to lay out
and superintend the improvement of the extensive public grounds between the capitol and the
executive mansion at Washington, commonly known as the "Mall."  This important work was entered
upon by him, with the utmost enthusiasm.  Elaborate plans of the Mall and other public squares
were made by him, walks and drives laid out; the place for each tree, with its kind and variety
determined, and the work of planning mainly executed.  He, with an artist's eye, saw the then
unadorned beauties of the location of the capital; the broad sweep of the Potomac, the valley
and the plain environed by its rim of varied hills, broken here and there by glens and ravines.
He spoke of it with enthusiasm, and no doubt, above other hopes, wished, by his skill, to aid
in making the city of Washington as magnificent in its views and surroundings as any city in
Europe.  But man proposes and God disposes.  It was not to be the good fortune of Mr. Downing
to complete his magnificent plans for converting the filthy, waste commons of the capital into
gardens of delight; but they have been executed by others, and have contributed largely to
making Washington what he wished it to be, a beautiful city, parked and planted with specimens
of every American tree worthy of propagation, and becoming adorned with the best models of
architecture, not only of public edifices, fitted for the great offices of the nation, but
of many elegant private houses.

I had been invited by the Lincoln club, of Cincinnati, to attend a reception at their clubhouse
on the evening of the 1st of September. It is a political as well as a social club, and I was
expected to make a political speech.  I did so, and was followed by Foraker and H. L. Morey.
The usual "refreshments" were not forgotten.  I take this occasion to express my hearty approval
of the organization and maintenance of political clubs in every city containing 10,000 or more
inhabitants.  The Republicans of Cincinnati have for many years maintained two notable organizations,
the Lincoln and the Blaine clubs, which have been places of social intercourse, as well as
centers for political discussion.  Both have had a beneficial influence, not only in instructing
their members on political topics, but in disseminating sound opinion throughout the state.

During this visit I was elected a member of the Chamber of Commerce in Cincinnati.  I regarded
this as an honor, and returned to its members my sincere thanks.  Although I have not been
engaged in commercial pursuits, yet in my public duties I have often been called upon to act
upon commercial questions and interests.  I have habitually, in my annual visits to that city,
visited the chamber of commerce, and said a few words on the topic of the times in which its
members were interested, but never on politics.  Every diversity of opinion was there represented.

Cincinnati, situated on the north bank of the Ohio River, with Kentucky on the other side,
and Indiana near by, with a large part of its population of German birth or descent, with every
variety of race, creed and color, is thoroughly a cosmopolitan city, subject to sudden outbreaks
and notable changes.  At the time of my visit it was especially disturbed by the agitation
of the temperance question.  In discussing this, I took the same position as at Findlay, and
found but little objection to it, but the opinions expressed by speakers in other parts of
the state in favor of prohibition had, as the election proved, a very bad effect upon the Republican
ticket.

On the 6th of September I attended the state fair at Columbus.  It was estimated that there
were at least 40,000 people on the ground that day.  It has been the habit to gather around
the headquarters and press any public man who appeared to make a speech.  Governor Foster and
I were together.  Mr. Cowden, the president of the fair, introduced Foster and he made a brief
address.  I was then introduced and said:

"Ladies and Gentlemen:--It has been my good fortune to be able to visit the state fair for
many years in succession, but, from the great multitude of people, and the vast concourse before
me, I should say that Ohio is rapidly pressing onward in the march of progress.  The gray beards
I see before me, and I am among them now, remind me of the time when we were boys together;
when, after a season's weary labor, we were compelled to utilize our surplus crops to pay our
taxes."

I contrasted the early days of Ohio with its condition then, and closed as follows:

"But this is no time for speechmaking, nor the occasion for further remarks.  We have come
out to show ourselves, and you do not desire speeches, but you do most want to see the horses,
cattle, sheep, hogs, and the implements that make the life of a farmer easier. This is a progress
that I love to see.  My countrymen, you are crowned with blessings.  Enjoy them freely and
gratefully, returning thanks to the Giver of all good gifts.  This is a free land, and the
agricultural masses are the freest, the noblest, and the best of all our race.  Enjoy your
privileges to the highest point, and be worthy followers of the great race of pioneers who
came before you."

During the remainder of this canvass I spoke nearly every week day until the election, and
in most of the congressional districts of the state.  Some of these speeches were reported
and circulated as campaign documents.  As the election day approached the interest increased,
and the meetings grew to be immense gatherings.  This was notably so at Toledo, Dayton, Portsmouth,
Cleveland, Circleville and Zanesville.  I believed the Republican state ticket would be elected,
but feared that the prohibition amendment would prevent the election of a Republican legislature.
The result of the election for governor was Hoadley 359,693, Foraker 347,164, and the general
assembly elected contained a majority of Democrats in each branch. Henry B. Payne was, on the
meeting of the legislature, elected Senator in the place then held by Geo. H. Pendleton.

After the election I went to New York and was met everywhere with inquiries as to the causes
of Republican defeat in Ohio.  I said the Republicans were defeated because of the prohibition
question and the law reducing the tariff on wool; that many Germans feared an invasion of their
rights and an interference with their habits, and the farmers objected to the discrimination
made by our tariff against their industries.

On the 1st of November, 1883, General Sherman relinquished command of the army, with the same
simplicity and lack of display which had characterized his official life at army headquarters.
He wrote the following brief order:

  "Headquarters of the Army,    }
  "Washington, November 1, 1883.}
"General Orders No. 77.

"By and with the consent of the President, as contained in General Orders No. 71, of October
16, 1883, the undersigned relinquishes command of the army of the United States.

"In thus severing relations which have hitherto existed between us, he thanks all officers
and men for their fidelity to the high trust imposed on them during his official life, and
will, in his retirement, watch with parental solicitude their progress upward in the noble
profession to which they have devoted their lives.

  "W. T. Sherman, General.
  "Official:  R. C. Drum, Adjutant General."

He then rose from his desk, gave his seat to Sheridan, who at once issued his orders assuming
his new duties, and the transfer was completed.  I know that when the bill for the retirement
of officers at a specified age was pending, there was a strong desire in the Senate to except
General Sherman from the operation of the law, but the general, who was absent on the plains,
telegraphed me not to allow an exception to be made in his favor, insisting that it would be
a discrimination against other officers of high merit. Thereupon the Senate reluctantly yielded,
but with a provision that he should retain his salary as general, notwithstanding his retirement.

At this period mention was again made in the newspapers of my name as the nominee of the Republican
party for President in the next year.  I promptly declared that I was not a candidate and had
no purpose or desire to enter into the contest.  This discussion of my name continued until
the decision of the national convention, but I took no part or lot in it, made no requests
of anyone to support my nomination, and took no steps, directly or indirectly, to promote it.

The message of President Arthur, submitted to Congress on the 4th of December, 1883, presented
a condition of remarkable prosperity in the United States.  We were at peace and harmony with
all nations. The surplus revenue for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1883, amounted to $134,178,756.96,
all of which was applied to the reduction of the public debt.  It was estimated that the surplus
revenue for the then fiscal year would be $85,000,000, and for the next fiscal year $60,000,000.
The President called the attention of Congress to the revenue act of July, 1883, which had
reduced the receipts of the government fifty or sixty million dollars. While he had no doubt
that still further reductions might be wisely made, he did not advise at that session a large
diminution of the national revenues.  The whole tenor of the message was conservative and hopeful.

During this session, upon representations made to me and after full reflection, I felt compelled,
by a sense of public duty, to institute an inquiry into events connected with recent elections
held in the States of Virginia and Mississippi.  I did so with extreme reluctance, for I did
not care to assume the labor of such an investigation. On the 23rd of January, 1884, I introduced
a preamble setting out in detail the general charges made as to events currently reported in
the public press prior to the election in November, 1883, in Danville, Virginia, and Copiah
county, Mississippi, with the following resolution:

"Resolved, That the committee on privileges and elections be, and is hereby, instructed to
inquire into all the circumstances of, and connected with, the said alleged events, and into
the condition of the constitutional rights and securities before named of the people of Virginia
and Mississippi, and that it report, by bill or otherwise, as soon as may be; and that it have
the power to send for persons and papers, and to sit during the sittings of the Senate, and
that it may employ a stenographer or stenographers."

On the 29th of January I called up the resolution, and made the following remarks explaining
why I introduced the resolution and requested an investigation:

"Since the beginning of the present session, I have felt that the recent events in the States
of Virginia and Mississippi were of such importance as to demand a full and impartial investigation
of the causes which led to them, of the real facts involved, and of the proper constitutional
remedy to prevent their recurrence, and, if necessary, to further secure to all American citizens
freedom of speech in the open assertion of their political opinions and in the peaceful exercise
of their right to vote.

"Now that sufficient time has elapsed to allay to some extent the excitement caused by these
events, I hope the Senate will make this investigation, so that our citizens in every state
may understand how far the national government will protect them in the enjoyment of their
rights, or, if it is helpless or listless, that, no longer relying upon the barren declarations
of the constitution, each man for himself may appeal to the right of self-defense, or to the
boasted American right of migration to more friendly regions.

"The allegations in this resolution as to the Danville riot, or massacre, are founded upon
statements in the public prints, supported by the oaths of witnesses, and their substantial
truth is also verified by the published statement of a Member of this body, a Senator from
the State of Virginia.

"The allegations as to Mississippi are founded upon copious narratives in the public prints,
the proceedings of public meetings, and the actions and failure to act of officers of the state
government, including governors, judges, courts, and juries.

"I have not deemed it proper, at this stage of the investigation, if it is to be made, to enter
into the details of the facts, although I have before me a voluminous collection of all these
various statements published in the papers of different political parties and from different
persons.

"If these statements are true, then in both these states there have been organized conspiracies
to subvert the freedom of elections, accompanied by murder and violence in many forms.  The
crimes depicted are not ordinary crimes, common in all societies where the criminal falls under
the ban of public justice, and is pursued by the officers of the law, tried, convicted, or
acquitted; but the crimes here alleged are that a prevailing majority subverts by violence
the highest constitutional rights and privileges of citizens, and cannot, from their nature,
be inquired of or punished by ordinary tribunals.  If they are true, then in those communities
the members of our party and one race have no rights which the prevailing party is bound to
respect.

"It is not well to assume these allegations to be true without the fullest investigation and
inquiry by the legislative power, for, if true, the gravest questions of public policy arise
that we have been called upon to consider since the close of the Civil War.  I have no desire
to open up sectional questions or renew old strifes, but would be glad to turn my back upon
the past and devote myself to questions of peace, development, and progress.  Still, if these
allegations are true, it would be a cowardly shrinking from the gravest public duty to allow
such events to deepen into precedents which would subvert the foundation of republican institutions
and convert our elections into organized crimes.  I do not say these allegations are true,
but they come to us with such apparent seeming of truth that we are bound to ascertain their
truth or falsehood by the most careful and impartial inquiry.

"If the events at Danville were the results of a chance outbreak or riot between opposing parties
or different races of men, they may properly be left to be dealt with by the local authorities;
but if the riot and massacre were part of machinery, devised by a party to deter another party,
or a race, from the freedom of elections, or the free and open expression of political opinions,
then they constitute a crime against the national government, the highest duty of which is
to maintain, at every hazard, the equal rights and privileges of citizens.

"If the events in Copiah county, Mississippi (which is a large and populous county containing
twenty-seven thousand inhabitants, and evidently a very productive county), were merely lawless
invasions of individual rights, then, though they involved murder as well as other crimes,
they should be left to local authority, and if justice cannot be administered by the courts,
and the citizen is without remedy from lawless violence, then he must fall back upon his right
of self-defense, or, failing in that, he must seek a home where his rights will be respected
and observed.  But if these individual crimes involve the greater one of an organized conspiracy
of a party, or a race, to deprive another party or race of citizens of the enjoyment of their
unquestioned rights, accompanied with overt acts, with physical power sufficient to accomplish
their purpose, then it becomes a national question which must be dealt with by the national
government.

"The war emancipated and made citizens of five million people who had been slaves.  This was
a national act, and whether wisely or imprudently done it must be respected by the people of
all the states.  If sought to be reversed in any degree by the people of any locality it is
the duty of the national government to make their act respected by all its citizens.  It is
not now a question as to the right to stop at an inn, or to ride in a car, or to cross a bridge,
but it is whether the people of any community can, by organized fraud, terror, or violence,
prevent a party or a race of citizens from voting at an election, or the expression of opinions,
or deny to them the equal protection of the law.  No court has ever denied the power of the
national government to protect its citizens in their essential rights as freemen.  No man should
be allowed to hold a seat in either House of Congress whose election was secured by crimes
such as are depicted here.

"Nor is it sufficient to say that the elections referred to were not national elections in
the sense that they did not involve the election of a President or a Member of Congress.

"If the essential rights of citizenship are overthrown by a state or by the people of a state,
with the sanction of the local authorities within the limits of a state, then Congress, as
the legislative power of the United States, is bound to provide additional safeguards, and
should exhaust all the powers of the United States government to maintain these essential rights
of citizenship within the limits of all the states, in as full and complete a manner as it
will guard and protect the unquestioned rights of citizens of the United States within the
domains of the most powerful nations of the world.  Surely a citizen of the United States has
as much right in any one of the states as he would have in a foreign land, however remote or
however powerful its government may be.  Protection at home in the secure enjoyment of the
rights of person and property is the foundation of all human government, without which its
forms are a mockery and with which mere forms of government become a matter of indifference.
Protection goes with allegiance, and allegiance ceases to be a duty when protection is denied.

"I can appreciate the great change that has occurred in the southern states, the natural antagonisms
which would raise by the emancipated slaves mingling in the same community with their former
masters, with equal civil and political rights with those who had held them as slaves; I can
pardon the prejudices of race, of caste, and even of local ties; and the American people have,
I think, waited with great forbearance, waited patiently for the time when constitutional rights
would be respected without regard to race, or color, or creed, or party.  If the time has come,
as alleged in the papers before me, when members of the Republican party, through whose agency
largely the existence of the government has been maintained intact over the broad extent of
our country, cannot express their free opinions, cannot enjoy their constitutional rights,
are murdered at the ballot box without fear on the part of their murderers of punishment, and
driven from their homes by outrage and terror, and that white and black alike are subject to
ostracism and injustice, and as a party are disfranchised in large portions of the regions
where in war they asserted and maintained the powers of the national government, then indeed
is patient inquiry demanded, and a full, open, and manly assertion that the rights and equalities
of citizens shall be maintained and enforced at every hazard.

"If the Copiah resolutions are the creed of the Democratic party in the south, then indeed
the war is a failure, and we must expect again the fierce sectional excitement, deepened by
injury and disappointment.  Written in the light of the events alleged to have transpired in
the presence of the men who wrote and adopted these resolutions, they seem to me the very germ
of despotism and barbarity, and yet I am assured by a gentleman friendly to them that they
are the creed of nine-tenths of the party in power in Mississippi.  I should like to know--it
is right that we should learn--the groundwork of opinions so utterly repugnant to republican
institutions.

"In this investigation I would seek every palliation or excuse for the conduct of the people
complained of.  I would give to their motives and to the natural feelings of mankind in their
situation the most charitable construction.  I would give to them all political power they
ever enjoyed, and, without unkindness, or pains, or penalties, or even reproaches, I would
extend to them every right, favor, or facility, that is enjoyed by any citizen in any part
of our country; but when this concession is made to them I would demand that in the states
under their control the freedom and equality of rights and privileges guaranteed by the constitution
and the laws to all citizens, white or black, native or naturalized, poor or rich, ignorant
or learned, Republican or Democrat, shall be secured by the state government, or, if not, that
their rights and privileges shall be asserted and maintained by the national government.  Upon
this issue I would appeal to every generous-minded man, to every lover of his country, to everyone
who wishes to enjoy his own rights by his own fireside, free from embarrassment, to stand by
those who, yielding to others the protection of the laws in the enjoyment of equal rights,
will demand the same for themselves and for their associates."

General Mahone made a long and interesting speech in respect to the Danville election.

The resolution was adopted by a party vote, yeas 33, nays 29.  As the investigation ordered
embraced two distinct series of events, they were separately considered and reported upon by
the committee on privileges and elections.  Mr. Hoar was chairman of the committee. I was a
member of the committee and assumed the chief work in the examination of witnesses as to the
events in Danville.  Mr. Lapham prepared the majority report, and Mr. Vance the report of the
minority.  These reports, with the testimony taken, were printed in a document containing 1,300
pages.  The Copiah county matter was referred to another sub-committee.  As no affirmative
action was taken on these reports, I do not care to recite at any length either the report
or the evidence, but it is sufficient to say that the allegations made in the preamble of the
resolution were substantially sustained by the testimony.  There was a deliberate effort on
the part of the Democrats at Danville, and in other parts of Virginia, to prevent the negroes
from voting, and preceding the November election this movement was organized by the formation
of clubs, and every means were adopted to intimidate and suppress the Republican vote.  A letter,
called the Danville circular, was prepared and issued to the southwest valley of Virginia,
containing the most inflammatory language, evidently intended to deter the negroes from voting.

The incidents connected with the Danville massacre preceding the election were very fully stated
in the report, and established clearly that the massacre was planned at a Democratic meeting
at the opera house, at which five hundred or more had assembled.  A scuffle grew out of a pretended
quarrel between Noel and Lawson, two white men, and revolvers were drawn and warning given
to the colored men to stand back or they would every one of them be killed. A colored policeman
endeavored to separate the two men who were fighting, and soon after there was a general firing
from pistols and guns by white men at the negroes, the number of shots being variously estimated
at from 75 to 250.  The negroes fled.  There was no evidence that the negroes fired a shot
until after the whites fired a general volley at them, and the weight of the evidence was that
very few had any weapons, that they had gathered there in their working clothes as they had
come out of the factories, of all ages and both sexes, unquestionably from curiosity and not
with any view of violence or preparation for it.  The whites, on the contrary, were generally
armed, were expecting an outbreak and obviously seeking a pretext for resorting to violence.
Many of the whites emptied their revolvers and the evidence showed that Captain Graves reloaded
his.  There was conflicting evidence as to the negroes having arms.  Only one was shown to
have exhibited any before the firing, and the colored witnesses and many of the whites, including
some of the policemen, said they saw no arms in the hands of the colored men except the one
named, and there was no reliable evidence that he fired.  There was no evidence to be relied
upon that any of the colored men fired, except some witnesses stated that the colored men,
as they were running, fired over their shoulders.  The evidence tended to show that the violence
was premeditated, with the avowed purpose of intimidation.

I do not follow this investigation further, as no doubt the condition of affairs which led
to it is now changed.  The result was the murder of four unoffending colored men and the wounding
of many others.  The evidence seemed entirely clear that it was the consummation of a deliberate
purpose, for which the Democratic clubs had fully prepared.

I believe that the investigation, while it led to no important measure, had a good effect,
not only in Danville, but throughout the south.  The problem of the two races living together
in the same community with equal political rights is a difficult one, and has come to be regarded
by men of all parties as one that can only be settled by each state or community for itself.
It is impossible for a government like ours, with limited powers, to undertake the protection
of life and property in any of the states except where resistance is made to national authority.
All the signs indicate that a better feeling now exists between the two races, and their common
interests will lead both to divide on questions of public policy, without regard to race or color.

Among the bills passed on this Congress was one introduced by Mr. Blair, of New Hampshire,
and chiefly advocated by him, to aid in the establishment and temporary support of common schools.
It provided for the appropriation of $120,000,000 to be distributed among the states upon the
basis of illiteracy, $15,000,000 for the current fiscal year, and a smaller sum each year for
fifteen years, until the total sum was exhausted.  The apportionment proposed would have given
to the southern states $11,318,394 out of the $15,000,000.  The money was not to be disbursed
by the United States, but was to be placed in the hands of state authorities. The object designed
of diminishing illiteracy in the south, especially among the freedmen, was no doubt a laudable
one, but the measure proposed was so radical and burdensome, and so unequal in its apportionment
among the states, that I assumed it would be defeated, but it passed the Senate by a large
majority.  The advocates of a strict construction of the constitution voted for it in spite
of their theories.  The bill, however, was defeated in the House of Representatives.

An interesting debate arose between Mr. Beck and myself, during this session, upon the question
of the sinking fund, which he seemed to regard as a part of the public debt.  It is, in fact,
only a treasury statement of the debt to be paid each year, and the amount actually paid. 
In 1862, when the war was flagrant, Congress provided that one per cent. of the principal of
the public debt should be paid each year as a "sinking fund."  While the United States was
borrowing large sums and issuing its bonds, it was folly to pay outstanding bonds, and this
was not done until 1868, when the treasury was receiving more money than it disbursed.  In
the meantime, the treasury charged to the "sinking fund," annually, the sum of one per cent.
of the amount of outstanding securities of the United States.  When the receipts exceeded expenditures,
so much of the balance on hand as was not needed was applied to the purchase of bonds, and
such bonds were canceled and the amount paid was placed to the credit of this fund.  In the
general prosperity that followed, and until 1873, the sums thus credited increased so that
the amount of bonds paid was equal to, if not in excess of, the annual charge against that
fund, and the amount charged against it prior to 1868.  When the financial panic of 1873 occurred,
the revenues fell off so that they were insufficient to meet current expenditures.  This prevented
any credits to the sinking fund until 1878, when the pendulum swung the other way, and the
fund was rapidly diminished by the bonds purchased from the surplus revenue, and credited to
the fund, so that when Mr. Beck interrogated me I was able to say that the sinking fund had
to its credit a considerable sum; in other words, the United States had paid its debt more
rapidly than it had agreed to pay it.  The term "sinking fund," as applied to the national
accounts, is a misleading phrase.  It is a mere statement whether we have or have not paid
one per centum of the public debt each year.  There is no actual fund of the kind in existence
for national purposes.

Another financial question was presented at this session and before and since.  The national
banking act, when it passed in 1863, provided that the circulating notes of national banks
should be issued for only ninety per cent. of the amount of United States bonds deposited in
the treasury for their security.  At that time bonds were worth in the market about fifty per
cent. in coin, or par in United States notes.  Soon after the war, bonds advanced far above
par in coin and have been worth thirty per cent. premium. Yet, in spite of this, Congress has
repeatedly refused to allow notes to be issued by national banks, to the par value of bonds
deposited on security, thus limiting the amount of bank notes unreasonably.  I introduced a
bill early at this session to correct this.  It passed the Senate, but was ignored in the House.
The same result has happened at nearly every Congress since, even when the bonds were so high
as to deter the issue of bank notes when they were greatly needed.

During this session a delicate question arose whether a Senator could refuse to vote when his
name was called, and he was present in the Senate.  The Senate being so closely divided a few
Senators might, by refusing to answer to their names, suspend the business of the Senate when
a quorum was present.  Mr. Bayard and myself agreed that such a practice would be a breach
of public duty, which the Senate might punish.  Senators may retire from the Chamber, but the
Senate can compel their attendance.  If a case should arise where a Senator, being present,
and not paired, should, without good reason, refuse to vote, he should be censured.  The increase
in the number of Senators makes this question one of importance, but I hope the time will never
come when it practically shall arise.

The Senate is properly a very conservative body, and never yields a custom until it is demonstrated
to be an abuse.  The committee on appropriations is a very important one.  It is always composed
of experienced Senators, who are careful in making appropriations, but there are appropriations
which ought not to be referred to them.  Their chief duty is performed in the closing days
of the session, when all business is hurried, and they have little time to enter into details.
They are entirely familiar with the great appropriations for the support of the government,
and can best judge in respect to them, but there are other appropriations which ought to be
passed upon by committees specially appointed for specific duties, like that of the District
of Columbia.  No reason can be given why these appropriations should not be acted upon by such
committees.  It is true that the appropriation committee ought to simply report such sums as
are necessary to carry into execution existing laws.  That is their function, according to
the rules, and that function they can perform very well in regard to such expenditures; but
the expenditures of the government for the District, rivers and harbors, fortifications, pensions,
and certain other objects, are not defined or regulated by law.  In the case of the District
of Columbia, a few officers named in the appropriation bill are provided for by law, but the
great body of the expenditures is for streets, alleys and public improvement, nine-tenths of
all the appropriations made for the District being, in their nature, new items not fixed by
existing law.

On the 6th of May, 1884, the country was startled by the failure of the Marine National Bank
of New York, an institution that had been in high credit and standing.  The circumstances connected
with the failure excited a great deal of interest and profound surprise. Immediately in connection
with the failure of this bank the banking firm of Grant & Ward, in the city of New York, failed
for a large amount.  Their business was complicated with that of the Marine National Bank,
and disclosures were made which not only aroused indignation but almost created a panic in
the city of New York.

Almost contemporaneous with this the insolvency of the Second National Bank of New York, for
a very large sum, became public, and the alleged gross misconduct of the president of that
bank, John C. Eno, became a matter of public notoriety.  Steps were taken by the officers and
stockholders of the bank, including the father of the president, to relieve it from bankruptcy.

Also, and in connection with the failure of the Marine National Bank, there were disclosed
financial operations of a strange and extraordinary character of the president of that bank,
James D. Fish.  All these events coming together caused much excitement and disturbance in
New York.  They led to a great fall of securities, to a want of confidence, and to a general
run, as it is called, upon banks and banking institutions, including the savings banks. It
appeared as if there were to be a general panic, a financial revulsion, and wide-reaching distress.

At that time also, and in connection with the other events, came the temporary suspension of
the Metropolitan National Bank, one of the oldest, largest, and in former times considered
among the best, of all the banks in the city of New York.  This was partly caused by rumors
and stories of large railroad operations and indebtedness of Mr. Seney, the president of the
bank, which resulted in a gradual drawing upon the bank.

At once the Secretary of the Treasury did what he could to relieve the money market, by prepaying
bonds which had been called in the process of the payment of the public debt; but the principal
relief given to the market at that time was the action of the Clearing House Association of
New York, by the issue of over $24,000,000 of clearing house certificates.  This was purely
a defensive operation adopted by the associated banks of New York, fifteen of which are state
institutions and the balance national banks.

All that was done in New York to prevent a panic was done by the banks themselves.  The government
of the United States had no lot or parcel in it except so far as the Secretary of the Treasury
prepaid bonds that had already been called, a transaction which has been done a hundred times.
So far as the government was concerned it had nothing to do with these banks; the measures
of relief were furnished by the banks themselves.

This condition of financial affairs led to a long debate in the Senate, commencing on the 17th
of June, on the merits and demerits of the system of national banks, and especially of the
clearing house of the city of New York.  The comptroller of the currency had taken active and
efficient measures to protect the interests of the United States.  He was called before the
committee on finance and gave a full statement of these measures.  It was apparent that the
temporary panic grew out of the reckless and criminal conduct of a few men and not from defects
in the national bank system or the clearing house.  The debate that followed, in the Senate,
was mainly between Morgan, Beck and myself.  I stated fully the methods of conducting the business
of the clearing house, a corporation of the State of New York, and closed as follows:

"As the prosecution against John C. Eno is now pending in Canada, a foreign country, as a matter
of course no one can state what will be the result of it.  We only know that proper legal proceedings
are now being urged to have an extradition, and if he is brought within the jurisdiction of
the courts as a matter of course the prosecution can then be pushed.  So with James D. Fish.
Indictments have been had and are now pending against him for a violation, not only of the
national banking act, but I believe also for a violation of the state law; and the same is
to be said of Ferdinand Ward. These three persons are the only ones who have been charged with
fraudulent and illegal transactions leading to these financial disasters.  The Metropolitan
bank, thanks to the agency and the aid that was given in a trying time, in now going on and
doing business as of old, no doubt having met with large losses.

"It is a matter of satisfaction that with the single exception of the Marine Bank, of New York,
no national bank has been overwhelmed by this disaster.  It is true that the Second National
Bank was bankrupted by the crimes and wrongs of John C. Eno, but his father, with a sensitive
pride not to allow innocent persons to suffer from the misconduct of his son, with a spirit
really worthy of commendation, here or anywhere else, threw a large sum of money into the maelstrom
and saved not only the credit of the bank and advanced his own credit, but to some extent,
as far as he could at least, expiated the fault, the folly, and the crime of his son.  The
Metropolitan Bank is relieved from its embarrassments by its associate banks. The losses caused
by the speculations of its president did not entirely fall upon the bank.  That bank, now relived
from the pressure of unexpected demands, is pursuing its even tenor.  It seems to me that all
these facts taken together show the strength and confidence that may well be reposed in the
national banking system.  The law cannot entirely prevent fraud and crime, but it has guarded
the public from the results of such offense far better than any previous system."

On the 10th of May, 1884, which happened to be my birthday, the statue of John Marshall, formerly
Chief Justice of the United States, was dedicated.  This is a bronze statue in a sitting posture,
erected by the bar of Philadelphia and the Congress of the United States.  A fund had been
collected shortly after the death of Marshall, but it was insufficient to erect a suitable
monument, and it was placed in the hands of trustees and invested as "The Marshall Memorial
Fund."  On the death of the last of the trustees, Peter McCall, it was found that the fund
had, by honest stewardship, increased sevenfold its original amount.  This sum, with an equal
amount appropriated by Congress, was applied to the erection of a statue to the memory of Chief
Justice Marshall, to be placed in a suitable reservation in the city of Washington.  The artist
who executed this work was W. W. Story, a son of the late Justice Story of the Supreme Court.
I was chairman of the joint committee on the library and presided on the occasion.  Chief Justice
Waite delivered an appropriate address.  He was followed by William Henry Rawle, of Philadelphia,
in an eloquent oration, closing as follows:

"And for what in his life he did for us, let there be lasting memory.  He and the men of his
time have passed away; other generations have succeeded them; other phases of our country's
growth have come and gone; other trials, greater a hundredfold than he or they could possibly
have imagined, have jeoparded the nation's life; but still that which they wrought remains
to us, secured by the same means, enforced by the same authority, dearer far for all that is
past, and holding together a great, a united and happy people.

During this session Mr. Ingalls offered to a House bill granting a pension to soldiers and
sailors of the Mexican War, the following amendment:

"That all pensions which have been or which may hereafter be granted in consequence of death
occurring from a cause which originated in the service since the 4th day of March, 1861, or
in consequence of wounds or injuries received or disease contracted since that date in the
service and in the line of duty, shall commence from the death or discharge of the person on
whose account the claim has been or is hereafter granted, if the disability occurred prior
to discharge, and if such disability occurred after the discharge, then from the date of actual
disability, or from the termination of the right of the party having prior title to such pension."

I opposed this sweeping provision with much reluctance, as I have always favored the granting
of the most liberal pensions consistent with the public interests.  I said:

"I regret very much to oppose any proposition that is favored by the Union soldiers of the
American army; and I perhaps should feel some hesitation in doing it, only that I know very
well that the soldiers themselves, like all other citizens, are divided in opinion as to this
measure.

"This proposition repeals all restrictions as to time upon applications to be made for arrears
of pensions, and extends to all persons back to the war or date of discharge or disability,
not only of those who have heretofore applied, but of those who may hereafter apply. It removes
absolutely all restrictions upon the applications for arrears of pensions.  And if this only
involved ten or even twenty million dollars, I might still hesitate, because I have always,
since the close of the war, voted for every measure that has been offered in good faith for
the benefit of the Union soldiers.  My heart, my feelings are all with them.  I appreciate
the value of their services, the enormous benefits they have conferred upon the people of the
America for generations yet unborn, and I hesitate therefore to oppose any wish that they may
express through their organs.

"This measure involves an immense sum of money.  That alone would not be conclusive.  But here
is a motion made by a Senator, without the report or sanction of any committee of this body,
to put upon the people of the United States a great demand, ranging anywhere up to $246,000,000,
a proposition so indefinite in character that the commissioner of pensions is utterly unable
to give us any approximate estimate, but gives his guess as near as he can.  He says that this
proposition will involve the expenditure of $246,000,000."

Mr. Ingalls made a sturdy effort for his amendment, and quoted a declaration of the Republican
national convention in favor of arrears of pensions, to which I replied that, when I remembered
that the platform of the last Republican convention had been made up in a few hours, on a sweltering
hot day, by forty-two men hastily called together, most of whom never saw each other before,
I did not think it ought to be taken as a guide for Senators in the performance of their public
duties.

After full discussion the amendment was rejected.

My position was highly commended by the public press and by many distinguished soldiers, including
Governor Foraker, who wrote me, saying:  "It may be some gratification to you to know that
your course, in regard to the pension bill, meets with the earnest approval of all right-minded
men in this part of the state."

On the 3rd of July the following resolution was adopted by the Senate on my motion:

"Resolved, That the Senate will meet at the usual hour on Friday, the 4th day of July instant,
and, after the reading of the journal and before other business is done, the secretary of the
Senate shall read the Declaration of American Independence."

On introducing the resolution, I said:

"Never till during our Civil War, so far as the records show or as is known or is recollected,
did Congress meet on the 4th of July. During the Civil War we did meet habitually on the 4th
of July, but it was only on the ground that those who had control then believed that the business
then requiring attention was proper to be done on the 4th of July.  We have only met once since
on the 4th of July, and that was in 1870, at a time of great political excitement.  An effort
was made to adjourn when the Senate met that day, but the session was continued--a long, exciting,
and unpleasant session--on the 4th of July, 1870.

"I do not doubt that to-morrow it will be well to sit, because the committees of conference
are carrying on their business and I have no objection to sitting; but I think we ought to
recognize, by common consent, the importance of the day and the fact that it is a national
anniversary celebrated all over the United States, by reading that immortal paper which is
the foundation of American independence."

Congress adjourned July 7, 1884.

On the 3rd of June, 1884, during the session of Congress, the national Republican convention
to nominate Republican candidates for President and Vice President, was held at Chicago.  Prior
to that time the papers had been full of the merits and demerits of candidates, and my name
was mentioned among them.  I had early announced, in interviews and letters, that I was not
a candidate. The following statement was generally published in Ohio:

"I am in no sense a candidate, and would not make an effort for the nomination.  I would not
even express my opinion as to who should be delegates from my own district or what their action
should be.  Four years ago I thought it best to be a candidate.  I believed that the logic
of events at that time justified such action.  The reasons I need not state.  Now there is
no such condition and I would not enter a contest even for the indorsement of my own constituency.
Many of my friends write me complaining letters because I refuse to make such an issue.  Believing
that the convention, when it meets, should be free, uninstructed, and in shape to do the very
best thing for the whole party, I have counseled by friends to that end.  A united and enthusiastic
party is more important than one man, and hence I am for bending every energy to the first
purpose, and am not a candidate."

I had not expressed the slightest desire to make such a contest. When approached by personal
friends I dissuaded them from using my name as a candidate.  I neither asked nor sought anyone
to be a delegate.  When the convention met, the Ohio delegation was divided between Blaine
and myself, and this necessarily prevented any considerable support of me outside of the state.
I was not sorry for it.  I regarded the nomination of Blaine as the natural result under the
circumstances.

The strength of Arthur, his principal competitor, grew out of his power and patronage as President.
He was a gentleman of pleasing manners, but I thought unequal to the great office he held.
He had never been distinguished in political life.  The only office he had held of any importance
was that of collector of the port of New York, from which he was removed for good causes already
stated. His nomination as Vice President was the whim of Roscoe Conkling to strike at President
Hayes.  If nominated he would surely have been defeated.  In the then condition of political
affairs it is not certain that any Republican would have been elected.

The weakness of the nomination of Blaine was the strong opposition to him in the State of New
York.  The selection by the Democratic convention of Grover Cleveland as the candidate for
President, and of Thomas A. Hendricks for Vice President, was made in view of the necessity
of carrying the two doubtful States of New York and Indiana, which it was well understood would
determine the election.

I promptly took an active part in support of the Republican ticket. A meeting to ratify the
nomination of James G. Blaine and John A. Logan was held at Washington, D. C., on the 19th
of June, at which I made a speech, which, as reported, was as follows:

"It is one of the curious customs of American politics that when anybody is nominated for office,
his competitors are the first to be called upon to vouch for the wisdom of the choice.  Perhaps
that is the reason I am called upon now.  Though I did not consider myself as much of a candidate,
I am ready to accept, approve and ratify the action of the Chicago convention.  I will support
the nomination of Blaine and Logan as heartily as I have done those of Fremont and Lincoln
and Grant and Hayes and Garfield.  And this I would do, fellow-citizens, even if they were
less worthy than I know them to be of the distinguished honor proposed for them.  I would do
it for my own honor.  I have no patience with any man who, for himself or any other person,
would take his chances for success in a political convention, and when disappointed would seek
to thwart the action of the convention.  Political conventions are indispensable in a republican
government, for it is only by such agencies, that opposing theories can be brought to the popular
judgment.  These can only be presented by candidates chosen as standard bearers of a flag,
or a cause, or a party.

"That Blaine and Logan have been fairly nominated by the free choice of our 800 delegates,
representing the Republicans of every state, county and district in the broad extent of our
great country, is admitted by every man whose voice has been heard.  They are not 'dark horses.'
Their names are known to fame; the evil and good that men could say of them have been said
with a license that is a shame to free discussion.  Traveling in peace and in war through the
memorable events of a quarter of a century, they have kept their place in the busy jostling
of political life well in the foreground.  And now they have been selected from among millions
of their countrymen to represent--not themselves, but the Republican party of the United States.

"They represent the American Union, one and indivisible, snatched by war from the perils of
secession and disunion.  They represent a strong national government, able, I trust, in time,
not only to protect our citizens from foreign tyranny, but from local cruelty, intolerance,
and oppression.

"They represent that party in the country which would scorn to obtain or hold power by depriving,
by crime and fraud, more than a million of men of their equal rights as citizens.  They represent
a party that would give to the laboring men of our country the protection of our revenue laws
against undue competition with foreign labor.

"They represent the power, the achievements, and the aspirations of the Republican party that
now for twenty-four years has been greatly trusted by the people, and in return has greatly
advanced your country in strength and wealth, intelligence, courage and hope, and in the respect
and wonder of mankind.

"Fellow Republicans, we are about to enter into no holiday contest. You have to meet the same
forces and principles that opposed the Union army in war; that opposed the abolition of slavery;
that sought to impair the public credit; that resisted the resumption of specie payment.  They
are recruited here and there by a deserter from our ranks, but meanwhile a generation of younger
men are coming to the front, in the south as well as in the north.  They have been educated
amidst memorable events with patriotic ardor, love of country, pride in its strength and power.
They are now determined to overthrow the narrow Bourbon sectionalism of the Democratic party.
They live in the mountains and plains of the west.  They breathe the fresh air of Virginia,
North Carolina, and Tennessee. They are the hardy, liberty-loving laborers of every state.

"They come from the fatherland, they come from old Ireland.  They are the active spirits, native
and naturalized, of a generation of free men who never felt the incubus of slavery, and who
wish only as Americans to make stronger and plant deeper the principles of the Republican party.
It is to these men we who have grown old in this conflict wish now to hand over the banner
we have borne.  Let them take it and advance it to higher honors.  Let them spread the influence
of our republican institutions north and south, until the whole continent of America shall
be a brotherhood of republics.

"Let them assert the rights of American citizenship, so that they will be respected as were
the rights of citizens of the Roman republic.  Let them deal with this most difficult and subtle
problem of social politics so as to secure to the man who labors his just share of the fruits
of his labor.  Let them improve even upon the protective policy we have pursued, so as to diversify
our industries and plant in all parts of our country the workshops of millions of well-paid
contented citizens.  Let them do what we have not been able to do since the war--restore our
commerce to every port and protect it under our flag in every sea.

"My countrymen, I regret to say it, you cannot accomplish any of these great objects of national
desire through the agency of the Democratic party.  It cannot be made an instrument of progress
and reform.  Its traditions, its history for twenty-five years, and its composition, forbid
it.  You may punish us for our shortcomings by its success, but you will punish yourselves
as well and stay the progress of your country.  A party that with seventy majority in the House
cannot pass a bill on any subject of party politics, great or small, is not fit to govern the
country.

"Every advance, every reform, every improvement, the protection of your labor, the building
of your navy, the assertion of your rights as a free man, the maintenance of good money--a
good dollar, good in every land, worth a dollar in gold--all these objects of desire must await
the movements of the Republican party.  It may be slow, but if you turn to the Democratic party
you will always find it watching and waiting, good, steady citizens of the olden time, grounded
on the resolutions of '98 and the 'times before the wah.'

"It is said that Blaine is bold and aggressive; that he will obstruct the business interests
of the country.  I would like to try such a President.  He might shake off some of the cobwebs
of diplomacy and invite the attention of mankind to the existence of this country. There will
always be conservatism enough in Congress, and inertness enough in the Democratic party, to
hold in check even as brilliant a man as James G. Blaine.  What we want now is an American
policy broad enough to embrace the continent, conservative enough to protect the rights of
every man, poor as well as rich, and brave enough to do what is right, whatever stands in the
way.  We want protection to American citizens and protection to American laborers, a free vote
and a fair count, an assertion of all the powers of the government in doing what is right.
It is because I believe that the administration of Blaine and Logan will give us such a policy,
and that I know the Democratic party is not capable of it, that I invoke your aid and promise
you mine to secure the election of the Republican ticket."

Upon the adjournment of Congress, I took an active part in the campaign, commencing with a
speech at Ashland, Ohio, on the 30th of August, and from that time until the close of the canvass
I spoke daily.  The meetings of both parties were largely attended, notably those at Springfield,
Cincinnati, Columbus, and Cleveland.

After the October election in Ohio, which resulted in the success of the Republican ticket,
I engaged in the canvass in other states, speaking in many places, among others in Faneuil
Hall, Boston, in Springfield, Massachusetts, in Chickering Hall, New York, and in the Brooklyn
Grand Opera House.

I felt greater timidity in speaking in Faneuil Hall than anywhere else.  The time, place, and
manner of the meeting were so novel, that a strong impression was made upon my mind.  In the
middle of the day, when the streets were crowded, I was conducted up a narrow, spiral passageway
that led directly to a low platform on one side of the hall, where were the officers of the
meeting, and there I faced an audience of men with their hats and overcoats on, all standing
closely packed, with no room for any more.  It was a meeting of business men of marked intelligence,
who had no time to waste, and whose countenances expressed the demand, "Say what you have to
say, and say it quickly."  I was deeply impressed with the historical associations of the place,
recalling the Revolutionary scenes that had occurred there, and Daniel Webster and the great
men whose voices had been heard within its walls.  I condensed my speech into less than an
hour, and, I believe, gave the assemblage satisfaction.  I was followed by brief addresses
from Theodore Roosevelt and others, and then the meeting quietly dispersed.

While in Springfield, I heard of the unfortunate remark of Dr. Burchard to Blaine about "Rum,
Romanism and Rebellion," and felt that the effect would be to offend a considerable portion
of the Irish voters, who had been very friendly to Blaine.  After that incident, I met Mr.
Blaine at the Chickering Hall meeting, and went with him to Brooklyn, where we spoke together
at the Academy of Music.

The election, a few days afterward, resulted in the success of the Democratic ticket.  The
electoral vote of New York was cast for Cleveland and Hendricks.  It was believed at the time
that this result was produced by fraudulent voting in New York city, but the returns were formal,
and there was no way in which the election could be contested.

Congress met on the 1st of December, 1884.  President Arthur promptly sent his message to each
House.  He congratulated the country upon the quiet acquiescence in the result of an election
where it had been determined with a slight preponderance.  Our relations with foreign nations
had been friendly and cordial.  The revenues of the government for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1884, had been $348,519,869.92.  The expenditures for the same period, including the sinking
fund, were $290,916,473.83, leaving a surplus of $57,603,396.09.  He recommended the immediate
suspension of the coinage of silver dollars and of the issuance of silver certificates, a further
reduction of internal taxes and customs duties, and that national banks be allowed to issue
circulating notes to the par amount of bonds deposited for their security.

Hugh McCulloch, upon the death of Mr. Folger, had become Secretary of the Treasury.  His report
contained the usual statements in regard to government receipts and expenditures and the public
debt, but the chief subject discussed was the coinage of silver dollars. He said:

"There are some financial dangers ahead which can only be avoided by changes in our financial
legislation.  The most imminent of these dangers, and the only one to which I now ask the attention
of Congress, arises from the continued coinage of silver and the increasing representation
of it by silver certificates.  I believe that the world is not in a condition, and never will
be, for the demonetization of one-third of its metallic money; that both gold and silver are
absolutely necessary for a circulating medium; and that neither can be disused without materially
increasing the burden of debt, nor even temporarily degraded by artificial means without injurious
effect upon home and international trade.  But I also believe that gold and silver can only
be made to maintain their comparative value by the joint action of commercial nations.  Not
only is there now no joint action taken by these nations to place and keep silver on an equality
with gold, according to existing standards, but it has been by the treatment it has received
from European nations greatly lessened in commercial value.

* * * * *

"After giving the subject careful consideration, I have been forced to the conclusion that
unless both the coinage of silver dollars and the issue of silver certificates are suspended,
there is danger that silver, and not gold, may become our metallic standard.  This danger may
not be imminent, but it is of so serious a character that there ought not to be delay in providing
against it.  Not only would the national credit be seriously impaired if the government should
be under the necessity of using silver dollars or certificates in payment of gold obligations,
but business of all kinds would be greatly disturbed; not only so, but gold would at once cease
to be a circulating medium, and severe contraction would be the result."

The first important subject considered by the Senate was the coinage of silver dollars and
the consequent issue of silver certificates. The debate was founded upon a resolution offered
by Senator Hill, of Colorado, against the views expressed by the President in his message and
by Secretary McCulloch in his report.

On the 15th of December I made a speech covering, as I thought, the silver question, not only
of the past but of the probable results in the future.  The amount of silver dollars then in
the treasury was $184,730,829, and of silver certificates outstanding $131,556,531.  These
certificates were maintained at par in gold by being received for customs duties.  They were
redeemable in silver dollars, but were in fact never presented for redemption. The silver dollars
could only be used in the redemption of certificates or by issue in payment of current liabilities.
With the utmost exertions to put the silver dollars in circulation only fifty million could
be used in this way.  To have forced more into circulation would have excited a doubt whether
any of our paper money could be maintained at par with gold.

When urged to express a remedy for this condition I said that if I had the power to dictate
a law I would ascertain by the best means the exact market value of the two metals, and then
put into each silver dollar as many grains of standard silver as would be equal in market value
to 25.8 grains of standard gold.  I said that if the price of silver fell the coin would still
circulate upon the fiat of the government.  If silver advanced in relative value the amount
of silver in the coin could, at stated periods, be decreased.  Bimetallism could only exist
where the market value of the two metals approached the coinage value, or where a strong government,
with a good credit, received and paid out coins of each metal at parity with each other.  The
only way to prevent a variation in the value of the two metals, and the exportation of the
dearer metal, would be, by an international agreement between commercial nations, to adopt
a common ratio somewhat similar in substance to that of the Latin Union, each nation to receive
as current money the coins of the other and each to redeem its own coins in gold.

Mr. Beck replied to my argument, and the debate between us continued during two or three days.
The weakness of the silver advocates was that they were not content with the coinage of more
silver coin than ever before, but were determined that the holder of silver in any form might
deposit it in the mint and have it coined into dollars for his benefit at the ratio of sixteen
to one, when its market value had then fallen so that twenty ounces of silver were worth but
one ounce in gold, and since has fallen in value so that thirty ounces of silver are worth
but one ounce in gold.

With free coinage in these conditions no gold coins would be minted and all the money of the
United States would be reduced in value to the sole silver standard, and gold would be hoarded
and exported. This debate has been continued from that date to this, not only in Congress,
but in every schoolhouse in the United States, and in all the commercial nations of the world.
I shall have occasion hereafter to recur to it.

On the 18th of December I reported, from the joint committee on the library, an amendment to
an appropriation bill providing for the construction of a statue to the memory of General Lafayette,
in the following words:

"That the president pro tempore of the Senate and the speaker of the House of Representative
do appoint a joint committee of three Senators and three Representatives, with authority to
contract for and erect a statue to the memory of General Lafayette and his compatriots; and
said statue shall be placed in a suitable public reservation in the city of Washington, to
be designated by said joint committee."

The amendment was agreed to by both Houses.  The result was the erection, on the southeast
corner of Lafayette Square in Washington, of the most beautiful and artistic bronze monument
in that city.

A somewhat sharp and combative controversy had taken place in the newspapers between General
Sherman and Jefferson Davis, in regard to the position of the latter on the rights of the Confederate
states in the spring of 1865.  General Sherman, in a letter to me dated December 4, 1884, published
in the "Sherman Letters," narrated his remarks at a meeting of the Frank Blair Post, G. A.
R., No. 1, in St. Louis, in which he said that he had noticed the tendency to gloss over old
names and facts by speaking of the Rebellion as a war of secession, while in fact it was a
conspiracy up to the firing on Fort Sumter, and a rebellion afterwards.  He described the conspiracy
between Slidell, Benjamin and Davis, and the seizure of the United States arsenal at Baton
Rouge, and other acts of war, and then said:

"I had seen a letter of Mr. Davis showing that he was not sincere in his doctrine of secession,
for when some of the states of the Confederacy, in 1865, talked of 'a separate state action,'
another name for 'secession,' he stated that he, as president of the Confederacy, would resist
it, even if he had to turn Lee's army against it.  I did see such a letter, or its copy, in
a captured letter book at Raleigh, just about as the war was closing."

Davis called for the production of the identical letter.  General Sherman said he could not
enter into a statement of the controversy, but he believed the truth of his statement could
be established, and that he would collect evidence to make good his statement.  I replied to
his letter as follows:

  "United States Senate,                }
  "Washington, D. C., December 10, 1884.}
"Dear Brother:--. . . I can see how naturally you spoke of Jeff.
Davis as you did, and you did not say a word more than he deserved.
Still, he scarcely deserves to be brought into notice.  He was not
only a conspirator, but a traitor.  His reply was a specimen of
impotent rage.  It is scarcely worth your notice, nor should you
dignify it by a direct rejoinder.  A clear, strong statement of
the historical facts that justified the use of the word 'conspirator,'
which you know very well how to write, is all the notice required.
Do not attempt to fortify it by an affidavit, as some of the papers
say you intend to do, but your statement of the letters seen by
you, and the historical facts known by you, are enough.  I have
had occasion, since your letter was received, to speak to several
Senators about the matter, and they all agree with me that you
ought to avoid placing the controversy on letters which cannot now
be produced.  The records have been pretty well sifted by friendly
rebels, and under the new administration it is likely their further
publication will be edited by men who will gladly shield Davis at
the expense of a Union soldier.  The letter of Stephens to Johnson
is an extraordinary one.  Its publication will be a bombshell in
the Confederate camp.  I will deliver the copy to Colonel Scott to-
morrow.  One or two paragraphs from it go far to sustain your stated
opinion of Jeff. Davis. . . .

  "Very affectionately yours,
  "John Sherman."  Upon this resolution a
somewhat acrimonious debate occurred, participated in by Senators
Harris, Hawley, Vest, George, Ingalls and others.  During the debate
I felt constrained, on account of my relationship with General
Sherman, to give his version of the controversy between himself
and Jefferson Davis.

I disliked the introduction of such a controversy twenty years after the war was over, but
still, as the matter was before us, I entered at considerable length into a history of the
controversy, and expressed my decided opinion that General Sherman was entirely justified in
denouncing Davis and his associates, before the Civil War commenced, as conspirators and traitors.
I closed my remarks as follows:

"I am sorry this debate has sprung up.  I was in hope, with the Senator from Connecticut, who
introduced the resolution, that these papers would be published, and nothing more would be
said about them here, but let the people determine the issue and let this matter go down in
history.  But, sir, whenever, in my presence, in a public assemblage, Jefferson Davis shall
be treated as a patriot, I must enter my solemn protest.  Whenever the motives and causes of
the war, the beginning and end of which I have seen, are brought into question, I must stand,
as I have always stood, upon the firm conviction that it was a causeless rebellion, made with
bad motives, and that all men who led in that movement were traitors to their country."

Senator Lamar answered my speech with some heat, and closed as follows:

"One other thing.  We, of the south, have surrendered upon all the questions which divided
the two sides in that controversy.  We have given up the right of the people to secede from
the Union; we have given up the right of each state to judge for itself of the infractions
of the constitution and the mode of redress; we have given up the right to control our own
domestic institutions.  We fought for all these, and we lost in that controversy; but no man
shall, in my presence, call Jefferson Davis a traitor, without my responding with a stern and
emphatic denial."

Senator Vest closed the debate in a few remarks, and the subject- matter was displaced by the
regular order.  While I regretted this debate, I believed that the speeches made by the Republican
Senators properly defined the Rebellion as, first, a conspiracy; second, treason; third, a
rebellion subdued by force, finally followed by the most generous treatment of those engaged
in the Rebellion that is found in the history of mankind.

During this session there was a very full debate upon the subject of regulating interstate
commerce, in which I participated.  The contest was between what was known as the Reagan bill,
which passed the House of Representatives, and the Senate bill.  I expressed the opinion that
the Senate bill was better than the Reagan bill, and, although much popular favor had been
enlisted from time to time in favor of the Reagan bill, because it grappled with and dealt
with the railroad corporations, the Senate bill did more; it not only grappled with them, but
laid a broad and deep foundation for an admirable system of railroad law, which should govern
all the railroads of the country.  The dedication of the monument to the name and memory of
George Washington, by the President of the United States, with appropriate ceremonies.

"Second.  A procession from the monument to the capitol, escorted by regular and volunteer
corps, the Washington Monument Society, representatives of cities, states, and organizations
which have contributed blocks of stone, and such bodies of citizens as may desire to appear.

"Third.  An oration in the hall of the House of Representatives, on the twenty-second day of
February, anno Domini eighteen hundred and eighty-five, by the Honorable Robert C. Winthrop,
who delivered the oration at the laying of the corner stone of the monument in eighteen hundred
and forty-eight, with music by the Marine Band.

"Fourth.  Salutes of one hundred guns from the navy yard, the artillery headquarters, and such
men-of-war as can be anchored in the Potomac."

I was chairman of the commission appointed under this resolution, and, in compliance with it,
invited Mr. Winthrop to deliver the oration.  He expressed his deep sense of the honor conferred
upon him, but had a doubt whether he ought not to decline on account of his failing health.
Mr. Morrill and I strongly insisted upon his acceptance and he eventually consented, though
not without misgivings which were unhappily justified.

A short time before the day appointed for the dedication I received from him the following
autograph letter, which is interesting, not only on account of the eminence of its author,
but of the important event about to be celebrated:

  "90 Marlborough Street, Boston, February 13, 1885.
"Hon. John Sherman, Chairman, etc.

"Dear Senator Sherman:--It is with deep regret that I find myself compelled to abandon all
further hope of being at the dedication of the Washington monument on the 21st instant.  I
have been looking forward to the possibility of being able to run on at the last moment, and
to pronounce a few sentences of my oration before handing it to Governor Long, who has so kindly
consented to read it.  But my recovery from dangerous illness has been slower than I anticipated,
and my physician concurs with my family in forbidding me from any attempt to leave home at present.

"I need not assure the commissioners how great a disappointment it is to me to be deprived
of the privilege of being present on this most interesting occasion.  I am sure of their sympathy
without asking for it.

"Please present my respectful apologies to your associates, and believe me,

  "With great regard, very faithfully yours,
  "Robt. C. Winthrop.
"P. S.--This is the first letter I have attempted to write with my
own pen since my illness."

Among the numerous regrets received by the commission was the following:

  "Oak Knoll, Danvers, Mass., Second Month 8, 1885.
"Hon. John Sherman, Chairman of Committee.

"Dear Friend:--The state of my health will scarcely permit me to avail myself of the invitation
of the commission to attend the ceremonies of the dedication of the Washington monument.

"In common with my fellow-citizens I rejoice at the successful completion of this majestic
testimonial of the reverence and affection which the people of the United States, irrespective
of party, section, or race, cherish for the 'Father of his Country.' Grand, however, and imposing
as that testimonial may seem, it is, after all, but an inadequate outward representation of
that mightier monument, unseen and immeasurable, builded of the living stones of a nation's
love and gratitude, the hearts of forty millions of people.  But the world has not outlived
its need of picture writing and symbolism, and the great object lesson of the Washington monument
will doubtless prove a large factor in the moral and political education of present and future
generations.  Let us hope that it will be a warning as well as a benediction; and that while
its sunlit altitude may fitly symbolize the truth that 'righteousness exalteth a nation,' its
shadow falling on the dome of the capitol may be a daily remainder that 'sin is a reproach
to any people.' Surely it will not have been reared in vain if, on the day of its dedication,
its mighty shaft shall serve to lift heavenward the voice of a united people that the principles
for which the fathers toiled and suffered shall be maintained inviolate by their children.

  "With sincere respect, I am thy friend,
  "John G. Whittier."

Another letter, received about two weeks earlier from General Grant, seems to me worthy of
a reproduction.  It is as follows:

  "New York City, January 27, 1885.
"Hon. John Sherman.

"Dear Sir:--I regret very much that my physical condition prevents me from accepting the invitation
of the commissioners, appointed by Congress to provide suitable ceremonies for the dedication
of the Washington monument, to be present to witness the same on the 21st of February next.
My throat still requires the attention of the physician daily, though I am encouraged to believe
that it is improving.

  "Very respectfully yours,
  "U. S. Grant."

An engraved card of invitation was sent to a great number of civil and military organizations
throughout the United States, the regents of Mount Vernon, relatives of General Washington
and other distinguished persons.

The commission invited Lieutenant General Sheridan to act as marshal of the day, with an aid-de-camp
from each state and territory. This invitation was accepted, and arrangements were made for
a procession from the monument to the capitol and proceedings there after the dedication by
the President.

The joint resolution prescribed that the monument be dedicated "to the name and memory of George
Washington, by the President of the United States, with appropriate ceremonies" on the 22nd
of February. The day selected was among the coldest of the year.  The ground was covered with
snow and a high keen wind was blowing.  I was directed to preside over the proceedings at the
base of the monument, and in the performance of this duty made the following address:

"The commission authorized by the two Houses of Congress to provide suitable ceremonies for
the dedication of the Washington monument, direct me to preside and announce the order of ceremonies
deemed proper on this occasion.

"I need not say anything to impress upon you the dignity of the event you have met to celebrate.
The monument speaks for itself-- simple in form, admirable in proportions, composed of enduring
marble and granite, resting upon foundations broad and deep, it rises into the skies higher
than any work of human art.  It is the most imposing, costly and appropriate monument ever
erected in the honor of one man.

"It had its origin in the profound conviction of the people, irrespective of party, creed or
race, not only of this country, but of all civilized countries, that the name and fame of Washington
should be perpetuated by the most imposing testimonial of a nation's gratitude to its hero,
statesman and father.  This universal sentiment took form in a movement of private citizens,
associated under the name of the Washington National Monument Association, who, on the 31st
day of January, 1848, secured, from Congress, an act authorizing them to erect the proposed
monument on this ground, selected, as the most appropriate site, by the President of the United
States.  Its corner stone was laid on the 4th day of July, 1848, by the Masonic fraternity,
with imposing ceremonies, in the presence of the chief officer of the government and a multitude
of citizens.  It was partially erected by the National Monument Association, with means furnished
by the voluntary contributions of the people of the United States.

"On the 5th day of July, 1876, one hundred years after the declaration of American Independence,
Congress, in the name of the people of the United States, formally assumed and directed the
completion of the monument.  Since then the foundation has been strengthened, the shaft has
been steadily advanced, and the now completed structure stands before you.

"It is a fit memorial of the greatest character in human history. It looks down upon scenes
most loved by him on earth, the most conspicuous object in a landscape full of objects deeply
interesting to the American people.  All eyes turn to it, and all hearts feel the inspiration
of its beauty, symmetry and grandeur.  Strong as it is, it will not endure so long as the memory
of him in whose honor it was built, but while it stands it will be the evidence to many succeeding
generations of the love and reverence of this generation for the name and fame of George Washington,
'first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen'-- more even than
this, the prototype of purity, manhood and patriotism for all lands and for all time.  Without
further preface, I proceed to discharge the duty assigned me."

After prayer by the Rev. Henderson Suter, Dr. James C. Welling read an address which had been
prepared by W. W. Corcoran, first vice president of the Washington National Monument Society,
giving a detailed history of the structure in its various stages.  Washington having been a
Freemason, appropriate Masonic ceremonies were performed, the address being delivered by Grand
Master Myron M. Parker.  Colonel Thomas L. Casey, of the engineer corps, United States army,
the chief engineer and architect of the monument, then formally delivered the structure to
the President of the United States, in an address describing the work done by him on it. President
Arthur received the monument with the following well- chosen words:

"Fellow-Countrymen:--Before the dawn of the century whose eventful years will soon have faded
into the past, when death had but lately robbed this republic of its most beloved and illustrious
citizen, the Congress of the United States pledged the faith of the nation that in this city,
bearing his honored name, and then, as now, the seat of the general government, a monument
should be erected 'to commemorate the great events of his military and political life.'

"The stately column that stretches heavenward from the plain whereon we stand bears witness
to all who behold it that the covenant which our fathers made, their children have fulfilled.

"In the completion of this great work of patriotic endeavor there is abundant cause for national
rejoicing; for while this structure shall endure it shall be to all mankind a steadfast token
of the affectionate and reverent regard in which this people continue to hold the memory of
Washington.  Well may he ever keep the foremost place in the hearts of his countrymen.

"The faith that never faltered, the wisdom that was broader and deeper than any learning taught
in schools, the courage that shrank from no peril and was dismayed by no defeat, the loyalty
that kept all selfish purpose subordinate to the demands of patriotism and honor, the sagacity
that displayed itself in camp and cabinet alike, and, above all, that harmonious union of moral
and intellectual qualities which has never found its parallel among men; these are the attributes
of character which the intelligent thought of this century ascribes to the grandest figure
of the last.

"But other and more eloquent lips than mine will to-day rehearse to you the story of his noble
life and its glorious achievements.

"To myself has been assigned a simpler and more formal duty, in fulfillment of which I do now,
as President of the United States, and in behalf of the people, receive this monument from
the hands of its builder, and declare it dedicated from this time forth to the immortal name
and memory of George Washington."

The exercises at the monument concluded, General Sheridan and his aids formed the procession,
consisting of regular and state troops, the Masonic fraternity, Grand Army posts, and other
organizations, with the invited guests, in carriages, and proceeded to the capitol, while the
cannon at the navy yard, at the artillery headquarters and at Fort Meyer fired minute guns.

As previously arranged, the address of Mr. Winthrop, which has ever since been regarded as
equal to the occasion, was read by John D. Long, in the hall of the House of Representatives,
before a most distinguished audience, embracing all the principal officers of the government
and the invited guests.  John W. Daniel, of Virginia, also delivered an eloquent oration.

Thus the Congress celebrated the completion of monuments in enduring form to two of the greatest
men in American history--Washington and Marshall.

The Congress expired by limitation March 4, 1885.

On the same day, there was inaugurated the first Democratic President of the United States
since the time of James Buchanan.  The election of Cleveland, though not disputed, turned upon
a very narrow majority in New York, and the practical exclusion of the majority of the legal
voters in several of the southern states.  This naturally led to the inquiry, "What will you
do about it?"  My answer was that we must quietly acquiesce in the result of the official returns
and give to Mr. Cleveland such fair treatment as we asked for Hayes. I said that we should
confirm his appointments made in pursuance of the law and custom.  I was a member of the committee
that conducted him to the stand where he was inaugurated.  I heard his inaugural address, carefully
studied it, and felt sure that if he faithfully observed the policy he defined, the bitterness
of party strife would be greatly diminished.  He carefully avoided contested questions of public
policy, and especially omitted all reference to the substantial overthrow of the political
rights of a majority of the legal voters in many of the southern states, by which alone he
was elected.

The usual call for an executive session at the close of a presidential term was issued by President
Arthur, and the Senate met on the 4th of March, Vice President Hendricks presiding.  But little
business of general interest was done during that session except action on presidential appointments,
few in number, which were confirmed without objection.  The Senate adjourned on the 2nd of April.

Soon after I went to Mansfield, and, on the 12th of April, to Cincinnati, to witness the inauguration
of my friend, Amor Smith, Jr., as mayor of that city.  He had fought and overcome the grossest
frauds that had been or could be committed by penitentiary convicts. A crowd gathered around
his residence, which, with those of his neighbors, was brilliantly illuminated.  The Blaine
club, headed by a band and followed by many citizens, filled his yard.  His house was full
of his personal friends.  After music by the band, Miller Outcalt, president of the club, escorted
Mr. Smith to the piazza and introduced him to the citizens.  His speech was modest and appropriate,
but he took care to denounce, in fitting language, the open and reckless frauds practiced by
his enemies to defeat him, and promised that while he was mayor no such frauds should be committed.

I was introduced to the crowd, and, after rendering my thanks and congratulations and my appeal
to the young men of the club, said:

"I think the foulest crime in the decalogue of crime, worse than any named in the Ten Commandments
of the Mosaic law, lower far than stealing, worse than burglary, as bad as murder, is the crime
that has been perpetrated here in your city openly, in the face of day, trying to break down
the elective franchise and rob the people of their right to govern themselves.  I might forgive
a man who would steal because he was in need of bread; he might commit other crimes because
of some reason, but a man who seeks to rob his neighbors of their right to govern themselves,
and practices the tricks of the wily electioneer to deprive the people of this right, commits
a meaner crime than any that can be named in the list of crime.

"I am told that dozens--aye, hundreds--of men have gone to the polls and there voted over and
over again; that they have given false names, and sometimes, in the presence of the very guardians
of the public peace, they have openly violated the law.  I say that worse men cannot be found
than those who do this, or those viler creatures who protect them in doing it or justify them
in their acts.  Every power of the nation should be utilized to punish them with the penitentiary;
they ought to be made to wear the stripes of the convict."

Foraker followed with an eloquent speech, which greatly pleased the audience, and after much
hand-shaking the crowd gradually dispersed.

My remarks about frauds at elections did not please the "Enquirer." While strongly censuring
me for violence in language it did not try to controvert what I said.  I have always entertained
the opinion that frauds in elections are more dangerous crimes than cheating, theft and robbery,
because they are committed against the whole people and sap and undermine republican institutions.
I have always denounced them, or anything approaching them, when committed by friend or foe.

From Cincinnati I went to Columbus to pay my respects to the Ohio legislature, about to adjourn.
A majority of both houses was Democratic.  They convened in the hall of the house of representatives,
where I addressed them.  I thanked them for their courtesy, which was the more gracious because
it came from gentlemen who did not agree with me in political opinion.  I told them I was pleased
to see that in Ohio and elsewhere the interests of our country and our state were regarded
of vastly more importance than the factious quarrels of bitter partisans, which feeling I was
glad to say I had always encouraged.  I alluded to my having served in the Senate of the United
States with colleagues representing different political opinions from myself, including Allen
G. Thurman, George H. Pendleton and, at that time, Henry B. Payne, and to the fact that whenever
the interests of the people of Ohio were concerned our political differences disappeared and
we were shoulder to shoulder as friends. I said I thought this spirit ought to be observed
by the representatives of the people of Ohio and of the United States, that whenever the interests
of the people were under consideration party spirit should sink into insignificance.

After hand-shaking all around I returned to my hotel.  In the evening I was invited to attend
the board of trade, and, being kindly introduced by President Miles, I, as usual, was called
upon for a speech.  I first alluded to the remarkable growth of Columbus to which the members
of the board had contributed, and then discussed briefly the silver question, about which they
also felt an interest. I then exploited into electricity, as follows:

"Gentlemen, you will be called upon hereafter to deal with forces yet undiscovered.  The developments
of science have brought to your aid things as mysterious as life, which no mind can penetrate.
You are now called upon to use electricity as a motive power and as light.  You must develop
these secrets of nature, and you will have no more fear of the exhaustion of gold, for these
new powers will contribute to the wealth and power of this country.  The business men must
carry out these, and so I say, as I said in Cincinnati, that if business men would carry their
honest methods into government, then the scale and grade of our politics would rise higher
and higher.  We have had advancement under these principles in everything except the government
of the country. What we want is honest government by honest men.  The United States will then
be looked on no longer as an experiment, but it will become the greatest of the great governments
since Adam was created.

"If I can induce the young men, who have contributed so much to the growth of this city, to
see to this--if you will do this much to promote honest government and honest methods, we won't
care whether you call yourself Democrat or Republican."

I closed with thanks for the honor done me.  I was also invited to visit the city council,
and as soon as the reception in the board of trade was over I accompanied a committee to the
council chamber, where I was again called upon for a speech.

Mr. Taylor, the president of the council, by a slip of the tongue, introduced me as "Senator
Thurman."  I said:

"I see that our friend, your president, mixes me up with Judge Thurman on account of the fact
that our names sound very much alike. I consider such a mistake the highest compliment that
could be paid me; for the great ability, intense sagacity and entire purity of your distinguished
fellow-citizen, in the highest offices of the land, have placed him, in my estimation, in the
first rank of able and noble men.  I like to have my name called Thurman.  It is my opinion
that the duties of city officers are of the very highest importance.  The most serious embarrassments
of this or any other country lie with the municipal governments.  National government is clearly
defined.  The government of the State of Ohio ought to present no difficulties when administered
by fair men of business habits.  But the eyes of the people are upon the difficulties of municipal
government.  The scenes that occurred in Paris, in London, in New York, and, to come nearer
home, the scenes that occurred in Cincinnati, all show the importance of good city government.
I say to you, although a Member of the Senate of the United States, that the real difficulties
of our government are no more serious than the problems of city management and government.
When Rome became the scene of wrongs, crimes, and usurpation, the republic crumbled.  If ever
this government be in danger, it will be because of the misgovernment of our cities."

In the early part of April, 1885, I arranged for a trip via Chicago, Des Moines, St. Louis,
Texas and California, thence along the Pacific coast to Tacoma and Seattle, and thence by the
Northern Pacific railroad to St. Paul, and home again.  The party was composed of Henry C.
Hedges, George F. Carpenter, both citizens of Mansfield, my nephew Frank Sherman, of Des Moines,
and myself.  It was arranged that we were to meet in St. Louis.  In the meantime I proceeded
to Des Moines, where I met my brother, Hoyt, and his son, Frank.  Here I met a reporter of
the "Register" published in that city.  He said in his report that I seemed to feel happy at
the prospect that for two months at least I was going to be free from public cares, and that
I acted like a man who had absolutely thrown worry aside for the time being.  I told him my
business was purely of a private character, and that I had dismissed all politics from my mind.
I declined to answer his questions about Mr. Cleveland.  He made out of small materials an
interview which answered his purpose.  He asked my view of the silver question.  I told him
I hoped to see the people abandon the idea, which prevailed a few years previous, of having
silver money of less value than gold.  We had gone through a struggle of some years to make
our paper money equal to gold, and the next struggle ought to be to do the same with silver
money. I said we should have all kinds of money of equal value whether United States notes,
bank bills, silver or gold; that if we had this our silver would circulate in all parts of
the world the same as our gold, that we could use both silver and gold as the basis of our
certificates, which would then be regarded as money by every commercial nation of the world.
I said I was in favor of both silver and gold, and of using both to be coined upon the basis
of market value, that in this way the volume of money would be increased instead of being diminished,
and our money would become the standard money of the world.  In his report he said that I spoke
very feelingly of General Grant, expressing a hope for his recovery, but that I feared his
apparent improvement was only characteristic of that disease and not substantial.

I was surprised as well as gratified at the rapid growth of Des Moines, which I first knew
as an insignificant village.  From Des Moines Frank Sherman and I went to St. Louis, and there
met Messrs. Hedges and Carpenter.  During the two or three days we remained in St. Louis I
stayed at the house of General Sherman, who then resided in that city.  He took great interest
in my proposed trip, and one evening wrote out, without a change or erasure of a single word,
on three pages of foolscap, and under the head of "Memorandum for John Sherman," a complete
and detailed statement of the route I was to follow, and the names of the cities and places
I was to visit, including the persons whom I ought to see, to several of whom he gave me letters
of introduction.  I have regarded this "memorandum," which we found accurate in every particular,
as a striking evidence of his mastery of details.  We followed the route with scarcely a change.
Among the letters given me by him was one to his friend, F. F. Low, as follows:

  "St. Louis, Mo., May 3, 1885.
"Hon. F. F. Low, Anglo California Bank.

"Dear Sir:--My brother John, the Senator, is on the point of starting for San Francisco via
the southern route and intends to come back by the north.  He will be in your city some days,
and I am anxious you should become acquainted, also that he should meet your wife and daughter.

"If you are with the Pacific club please introduce him to some of the old set--Hoffman, Tevis,
Haggin, Rowie, etc., etc.  Nearly all my old banking friends have passed away, but I am sure
he would be pleased to meet Alvord and Brown, of the Bank of California, and also Flood, of
the Nevada Bank.

  "Truly your friend,
  "W. T. Sherman."

While in St. Louis, the "Evening Chronicle" of May 1, published quite a long interview with
me.  General Sherman, during this interview, sat somewhat aside, now and then putting in an
emphatic assent or suggestion.  The general inquired of me if there was any late news from
Washington concerning General Sheridan.  The reporter then asked him what his opinion was as
to the controversy between General Sheridan and Secretary of War Endicott.  The general answered:
"There is no controversy.  It is simply an incident of the conflict of authority which has
existed between the Secretary of War and the General of the Army since the days of Washington.
General Scott had to leave Washington on that account.  I had to leave there for the same reason,
and Sheridan will have to go away."

Early Monday morning, May 4, we left on the St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern railway.  I
had heard and read a great deal in St. Louis about the mineral resources of the southeastern
part of Missouri, through which we passed, but from the cars we could gain no information.
We saw, on every side, herds of cattle, flocks of sheep, and bands of horses and mules.  For
miles the forest woods stretched away.  We passed through the low lands of Arkansas, covered
with valuable timber.  We passed through Texarkana, a city located partly in Arkansas and partly
in Texas, and not far from Louisiana.  We proceeded across the State of Texas, only catching
glimpses, here and there, of towns springing up, and broad fields already planted with cotton.

In passing through Dallas, we met my old boyhood friend, A. Banning Norton, who was there called
Judge Norton.  In 1844 he was so earnest in his zeal and enthusiasm for Henry Clay that he
vowed he would not cut his hair until Clay was elected President of the United States.  Clay's
defeat was a sad blow to Norton, but he religiously kept his vow, and until the day of his
death wore his hair unshorn.  He was thoroughly loyal during the war, and was compelled to
leave Texas and remain in Ohio until after the war was over, when he returned and published
a newspaper, and was kindly treated by his Texas neighbors.  In his paper, he said that receiving
a telegram from me at six o'clock, at his residence, just before the arrival of the train,
he hurried to the Union Depot, and there had the satisfaction of meeting our party.  He said
that his chief regret at the delay in receiving this telegram was that he did not have time
enough to give notice to his neighbors, who would have been glad to give us an ovation.  He
went with us as far as Fort Worth, and we had a chance to revive the memories of early times,
when we were schoolboys at Mount Vernon, Ohio.

We arrived at El Paso and Paso del Norte, the first a Texan and the second a Mexican town,
opposite each other on the Rio Grande River, which, from its mouth to this point, is the boundary
line between Mexico and the United States.  El Paso must, in all human probability, become
a place of great importance.  From there we proceeded to Deming and entered Arizona.  Here
we began again to hear of rich mines, of thriving mining towns, and of the inexhaustible ores
of silver and gold, but how much was truth and how much exaggeration we had no means of knowing.
From the cars the whole country appeared to be a wilderness.  Arizona, as viewed from the cars,
does not present a pleasing prospect, though we heard that back beyond the mountains on either
side were plains and valleys irrigated by mountain streams, where perennial grasses existed
and grain was raised.  We passed through Tucson, the capital of the territory.  It is an old
city, having been in existence, it is said, 300 years.  Here we saw fields of barley, wheat,
rye and timothy, and a large orchard, all enriched by irrigation.  We soon crossed the Colorado
River and entered California.

From Yuma to San Bernardino is an absolute desert.  For over one hundred miles the track is
one hundred feet, or more, below the level of the sea, and the country is absolutely naked
of bird or grass.  At San Bernardino we entered California proper, and there found a beautiful
country, with nothing to obstruct the view, the California mountains being on the right all
the way into Los Angeles. Upon my arrival in this city I was pleasantly surprised.  I had been
there thirteen years before, but everything was changed.  I could find none of the old landmarks
I had formerly seen.  They had disappeared, but in their place were great improvements and
signs of progress and prosperity.  I was asked the occasion of my visit.  I answered truly
that I proposed to remain in the southern part of the state for a week or more, for rest and
recreation. Here, again, I had inquiries about the silver question.  I was averse to giving
any expression of opinion, but the topic was irrepressible, and I finally said to the representative
of one of the leading papers:  "I am in favor of a silver dollar, equal, in market value, to
the gold dollar--actually equal.  In other words, let the silver dollar have enough grains
of silver in it to make it intrinsically worth, in the market, the gold dollar.  As it is,
the government buys the silver at a certain valuation and then coins it at another valuation,
to make a profit on the difference. This is not protecting the silver producer at all.  It
really is an injury to him and his industry."

Our stay in Los Angeles was a very pleasant one.  We drove to many interesting towns and settlements
within fifteen or twenty miles of the city.  I do not remember, in my many travels, any part
of the earth's surface that is more attractive in the spring of the year, the season when I
was there, than the region about Los Angeles. I met there many friends of General Sherman,
who inquired for him, and I informed them he was living very pleasantly in St. Louis, that
I had spent the last Sunday with him, that he traveled a great deal, and attended reunions
with old army comrades, which he enjoyed very much, that he was fond of the Pacific coast and
liked to go there, and that I almost persuaded him to come with me on this trip, had not other
engagements existed which he could not annul.

We met several Ohio people while here, among them two or three gentlemen whom we had known
as boys in Mansfield.  We drove to Wolfskill's orange grove, and to many handsome places in,
and around, Los Angeles, to Sierra Madre Villa, to Baldwin's place, to Rose's wine establishment,
and to Passadena, where we found Senator Cameron and his wife pleasantly situated, and where
they spent the summer.

From Los Angeles we departed by stage and passed through the Los Angeles valley, the San Fernando
valley, and after crossing the coast range saw the sea.  For the first time we were at the
Pacific coast proper.  On the way we met a settlement of Ohio men, most of them from Richland
county, whom we knew.  San Buenaventura is the county seat of Ventura county, with about 2,000
inhabitants.  It is an interesting place, its chief ornament being an old mission built in
1784.  We there visited a loan exhibition and floral display under the management of the ladies
of the village and surrounding country, and saw the evidences of a semi-tropical climate, magnificent
palm tress, and the orange, the lemon and the lime.  From this place to Santa Barbara the drive
was mainly along the beach.  Passing from the beach we entered upon a beautiful country, and
so proceeded all the way into Santa Barbara, through charming valleys and under pleasant skies.

At Santa Barbara we were welcomed by Colonel Hollister, a native of Ohio and a ranchero of
California, whom, as already related, I had met under similar circumstance thirteen years previous.
We stopped at a hotel owned by him and for four days were his guests. He had settled on a tract
of country west of Santa Barbara, and had become the owner of a ranch of 48,000 acres as well
as extensive property in Santa Barbara and other places.  We visited him at Glen Annie after
a drive of a few miles in an open carriage, all the way within view of the sea and the mountains,
through valleys cultivated like gardens, under a bright sky in pure air.  On the foot hills
were grazing herds of cattle, flocks of sheep and droves of horses.  On either side of the
carriage road were groves of the English walnut, orange, lemon, lime, apricot, peach, apple,
cherry, the date palm and olive trees, with acres and acres of vineyards, and now and then
a park of live oak.  The mansion of Glen Annie was surrounded by a bower of flowers and vines.
From the porch we could see the sea.  This was the second time I had been at Santa Barbara
and I always remember it as perhaps the most pleasing combination of scenery I have ever witnessed.
We spent a very pleasant hour with Mr. Stoddard and family, who had removed from Ohio some
years before to that delightful part of our country. From Santa Barbara we went by steamer
to Wilmington and San Pedro and then returned to Los Angeles through a beautiful country. 
From thence we went to San Francisco by rail through a country that seemed absolutely worthless
except now and then there were small valleys highly cultivated.  In the early morning we were
in the valley of the San Joaquin, where wide fields extend all along both sides.  Here we saw
thousands of acres of land covered by growing wheat without a fence to protect it.

Arriving at Oakland we crossed the bay to San Francisco on the 18th of May, stopping at the
Palace hotel.  There I was called upon by reporters of the several papers and was asked to
tell them where I came from, where I was going, and my opinions upon various subjects.  All
manner of questions were asked and answered about matters of no present interest.  Our party
visited many places of interest in and about San Francisco.  I visited General Pope, at his
residence at Black Point, the fort at the entrance of the Golden Gate, the seal rocks and park.
While here I met a great number of very agreeable gentlemen and ladies, some of whom were from
Lancaster, Ohio.  The letters given me by General Sherman introduced me to prominent men, who
were very kind and courteous.  On the 25th, a public reception was tendered me at the rooms
of the Chamber of Commerce, by the members of that body, the Board of Trade and the Manufacturers'
Association.  This was an act of courtesy that I did not expect, but greatly appreciated. 
The usual speech making occurred.  I was introduced by Henry L. Dodge, president of the chamber,
in flattering terms, and responded in a brief speech.  I recalled to them my visit to California
with Colonel Scott in connection with the Texas Pacific railroad, and the early connection
of General Sherman with the history of California.  I expressed my appreciation of the importance
of California, and its enormous development and influence upon the country since it became
part of the United States.  I stated my views in respect to the silver question, and the importance
of maintaining all forms of money at parity with each other, so that coins of both silver and
gold might "travel all over the world equal to each other in every land and in every part."
I insert two passages from this speech, which, though it did not conform to their opinions
and interests, was kindly received by the intelligent body of merchants present.  I said:

"It is due to frankness and manhood for me to say that in the country there is a feeling now,
that if the present system should be continued unchanged, the result would be that gold would
be demonetized, being worth more than silver as coined by the government of the United States.
The opinion prevails that the only thing to remedy this is to buy the silver and gold, or take
them from the miner and coin them at the same rate, of equal market value, in coins, one for
the other, so that they would travel, side by side, without depreciation or discount.  There
is an inclination in the eastern states, not of hostility to silver, but of hostility to that
system which would take from the miner the fruit of his labor at its market rate and issue
it at a depreciated rate; so that even cautious people would doubt whether or not this silver
money will hereafter be as good as gold money.

"I wish you success in all your business enterprises.  I know your success will contribute
to the happiness of our country.  I am glad to be able to congratulate the merchants of San
Francisco upon the enormous growth and prosperity of our country, not only of California, not
only of San Francisco, Los Angeles and the other beautiful towns you have in your midst, but
the whole country; for although we have sometimes here and there waves of dejection, after
all, our country is moving forward in bounding prosperity.  We have now the best currency that
exists on the globe.  Our credit is unrivaled in all the world, for no nation can borrow money
at so low a rate as our United States bonds now bear.  Our general prosperity is increasing
and abounding, and although, as I have said, there may be waves here and there, the progress
is onward and upward and hopeful.  I trust you will be prosperous in your enterprises, that
you will share in the common prosperity of our whole country, for, after all, the energy of
your people of San Francisco and California should not be expended entirely alone on the Pacific
coast.  This whole boundless continent is ours, and only awaits the time when we choose to
assert our right to take it and hold it."

At the invitation of Senator John F. Miller I spent a day on his ranch in Napa valley.  It
was a beautiful country, neither a prairie nor a woodland, but more like a fine cultivated
park, with here and there groups of trees planted by nature.  I made several excursions around
the bay, accompanied by General Pope and members of his staff.  I was delighted with my visit
in and around San Francisco, not only for the natural beauty of the country, but also on account
of the kindness of its inhabitants.  I was no doubt indebted for this to my connection with
General Sherman, who seemed to be known and greatly beloved by everyone.

I have a pleasant recollection of a reception given at the Dirigo club.  The gentlemen present
were not all young men, though they chose to regard themselves as such.  Major Chamberlain
delivered a brief address of welcome, in which he referred to the "martial services of General
Sherman and the pacific achievements of the Senator," and drew a comparison highly complimentary
to both of the brothers.  William W. Morrow, Member of Congress, formally welcomed me as a
guest of the club and delivered a short but eloquent speech.  I made a brief reply and then
the company was served with refreshments, entertained with music and had a free and friendly
time.  The reception was a decided success as was to be expected from the high reputation of
the club.

On the 27th of May we started northward towards Sacramento and Portland, Oregon.  Senator Leland
Stanford was kind enough to furnish us a car and accompanied us to his ranch at Vina.  We stopped
at Chico long enough to visit the ranch of John Bidwell, containing 20,000 acres.  He met us
at the station and we were soon conveyed to his mansion such as is seldom built on a farm.
We drove through orchards of peach, apricot, cherry, apple, pear and almond trees, while in
his gardens were all kinds of berries and vegetables.  After this brief visit we proceeded
along the line of railroad to Vina, the extensive possession of Senator Stanford, containing
56,000 acres.  Here is said to be the largest vineyard in the world, 3,600 acres.  On leaving
Mr. Stanford we proceeded to the terminus of the railroad, from which point we crossed the
coast range of mountains in a stage, and were for three days in sight of Mt. Shasta.  This
mountain rising from the plains stands out by itself 14,400 feet above the level of the sea.
Between Shasta and the Sierras proper there is no continuity, nor is there with the coast range.
More properly it is a butte, a lone mountain. Shortly after leaving Southern's the castle rocks
came in view, the highest and boldest mountains in close proximity, or within our view.  Shasta
was crowned with snow, the snow line beginning 7,000 feet from its base.  The scene all day
had been rugged and bold, and as we traveled by the Sacramento River, here a rapid mountain
stream, its waters rushed along the rocky bottom, now confined within narrow banks, now widening
out into a wide deep bed as clear as crystal and cold and pure.  For thirty miles of our travel
that day we had been in a good timbered country.  Within a circle of fifty feet in diameter
we counted a dozen pines, every one of which would have yielded ten to twelve thousand feet
of sawed timber.  Flowers of the richest colors were found in the woods, and the range afforded
feed for thousands of cattle.  At Southern's we took a spring-top wagon in which to ride sixteen
miles over the mountains.  We spent three days in the journey between Delta, California, and
Ashland, Oregon, the two ends of the railway approaching towards each other.  I recall it as
the most charming mountain ride I ever took.  While crossing the mountain I occupied a seat
with the driver and much of the time I held the reins.  The ascent of the Siskiyou mountain
was very tedious.  Much of the way the load was too heavy for our six horses to pull, and many
dismounted from the coach, among them the driver; the reins were placed in my hands and we
transferred most of the baggage from the boot to the body of the coach.  So we climbed the
Siskiyou 5,000 feet to the summit of the pass.  Then on a gallop, with the coach full, we turned
downward.  At one time, as the lead team turned a sharp curve, it was nearly opposite the stage.
Down, still down, and on the full gallop, we arrived at Ashland on the evening of the 31st
of May, and remained there one day.

On the 1st of June we followed the line of the Willamette valley, a productive region for the
cultivation of wheat and other cereals. At Albany we were met by Governor Moody and Secretary
Earnhart, who welcomed us to Oregon.  With these officials we went to Salem, the capital city
of the state.  My visit in Salem was a very pleasant one and I was especially indebted to Governor
Moody for his courtesy and kindness.  On the morning of the next day, the 2nd of June, we left
Salem and rode down the valley to Portland.  This, the principal city of Oregon, then contained
a population of nearly 40,000, of whom 6,000 or 7,000 were Chinese.  It was the natural head
of navigation of the Columbia River, and was a flourishing handsome city of the American type,
in this respect unlike the cities of California.  General Miles was then in command of the
military district, with his residence at Fort Vancouver, Washington Territory. The military
post of Vancouver was then on the north bank of the Columbia River, but a few miles from Portland.
Mrs. Miles is the daughter of my brother Charles, and I remained with their family in Vancouver
during my two or three days stay there, my traveling companions making their headquarters at
Portland.

When visiting Tacoma and Seattle our party had been increased to the number of seventeen gentlemen,
some of them connected with the army, some with the railroads, and others who joined us in
our progress around the waters of Puget Sound and strait of Juan de Fuca.  These waters furnish
perhaps the finest harbors in the world. They are deep, with high banks rising in some places
to mountains, and capable of holding all the navies of the world.  In a military sense Puget
Sound can be easily defended from an enemy coming from the sea, and, though the country is
mountainous, it is capable of sustaining a large population in the extensive valleys both east
and west of the coast range.  I have visited this portion of the United States on three occasions,
and am always more and more impressed with its great importance and its probably rapid increase
of population and wealth.  I will not dwell longer on this interesting trip.

We left Portland on the 7th of June and proceeded on the Northern Pacific railroad to Tacoma.
On the train we met Charles Francis Adams, Jr., with a party of railway managers, and in Tacoma
we met an old friend, a gallant and able officer, General John W. Sprague, formerly from Erie
county, Ohio, and more recently connected with the Northern Pacific Railway Company.  On Sunday,
our party, including Mr. Adams, dined with General Sprague.  We had not as yet been able to
see Mount Tacoma in its glory, as it was constantly shrouded by clouds.  In the course of the
dinner, Mr. Adams said humorously to Mrs. Sprague that he had some doubts whether there was
a Mount Tacoma, that he had come there to see it and looked in the right direction, but could
not find it.  I saw that this nettled Mrs. Sprague, but she said nothing.  In a few moments
she left the table and soon came back with a glowing face, saying, "You can see Tacoma now!"
We all left our places at the tables and went out on the porch, and there was Mount Tacoma
in all its glory.  The clouds were above the head of the mountain and it stood erect, covered
with snow, one of the most beautiful sights in nature.  Mr. Adams said:  "Tacoma--yes Mount
Tacoma is there and is very beautiful!"

On the 9th of June we visited Victoria in British Columbia.  On our return we stopped at Port
Townsend and Seattle.  I received many courtesies from gentlemen at Seattle, many of whom had
been natives or residents of Ohio, and among them Governor Squire, who had read law in Cleveland
and was admitted to the bar in Mansfield, where I resided. Among other events we were tendered
a reception and a banquet at Tacoma, at which seventy persons sat at the table. I was introduced
in complimentary terms and expressed my surprise at the rapid growth of Tacoma and Seattle
and that part of our country.  It was a wonder, I said, that such a scene could occur in a
place that had so recently been without an inhabitant except Indians, and where, but a few
years before, the Walla Wallas and the Nez Percés were on the war path and General Miles was
in pursuit of them.  I referred to the unrivaled body of water, Puget Sound, and said that
in the geography of the world it was not equaled. I referred, also, to the coal fields and
other elements of wealth scattered through the then territory.  I carefully avoided the subject
of the rivalry between Tacoma and Seattle, but after all I found there was no ill-will between
the two places.  Speeches were also made by Governor Squire, Mr. Adams, General Miles and others.

We returned to Portland on the 12th of June, but before that we visited Astoria, looked into
the great industry of salmon packing, and were greeted by quite a number of old Ohioans.  On
our return we visited Walla Walla and there saw wheat growing that yielded fifty bushels to
the acre.  We remained over, also, at Spokane Falls, then a mere village with a few houses,
since become quite a city.

General Miles and I drove in a buggy from Spokane to Fort Coeur d'Alène, a military post which
he wished to visit and inspect.  It is situated on a lake which is famous for the abundance
of its fish.  From there we took the cars to Helena, where we remained a day, and then proceeded
to St. Paul, where we arrived on the 21st of June.  Here again we found the interviewer, who
wanted to know my opinion about Cleveland, the silver question, the Chinese and various other
topics.  I pleaded ignorance on all these matters, but told the reporter that if he would call
upon me in the course of a month I would be able to answer his questions.

From St. Paul we went to Milwaukee and there crossed Lake Michigan and thence by rail to Grand
Rapids, where I had a number of acquaintances and some business.  We then proceeded by way
of Detroit and Sandusky to our home at Mansfield about the 24th of June.

Upon my return from the Pacific coast I found a mass of letters to be answered, and many interviewers
in search of news, and I had some engagements to speak for which I had made no preparations.
Among the latter was a promise to attend a celebration of the approaching 4th of July at Woodstock,
Connecticut, under the auspices of Henry C. Bowen of the New York "Independent."  He had for
several years conducted these celebrations at his country home at much expense, and made them
specially interesting by inviting prominent men to deliver patriotic addresses suitable for
Independence Day. General Logan and I were to attend on this occasion.  I selected as my theme
"America of to-day as contrasted with America of 1776." I prepared an address with as much
care as my limited time would allow, giving an outline of the history of the Declaration of
Independence, and the prominent part taken by the sons of Connecticut in this and other great
works of the American Revolution.  The address was published in the "Independent."  I have
read it recently, and do not see where it could be improved by me.  The outline of the growth
of the United States presents the most remarkable development in the history of mankind.  I
closed with the following words:

"It has been my good fortune, within the last two months, to traverse eleven states and territories,
all of which were an unbroken wilderness in the possession of savage tribes when the declaration
was adopted, now occupied by 15,000,000 people--active, intelligent, enterprising citizens,
enjoying all the advantages of modern civilization.  What a change!  The hopeful dreams of
Washington and Jefferson and Franklin could not have pictured, as the probable result of their
patriotic efforts, such scenes as I saw; cities rivaling in population and construction the
capitals of Europe; towns and villages without number full of active life and hope; wheat fields,
orchards, and gardens in place of broad deserts covered by sage brush; miners in the mountains,
cattle on the plains, the fires of Vulcan in full blast in thousands of workshops; all forms
of industry, all means of locomotion.

"Who among us would not be impressed by such scenes?  Who can look over our broad country,
rich in every resource, a climate and soil suited to every production, a home government for
every community, a national government to protect all alike, and not feel a profound sentiment
of gratitude, first of all to the great Giver of all gifts, and next to our Revolutionary fathers
who secured, by their blood and sacrifices, the liberty we enjoy, and by their wisdom moulded
the people of the United States into one great nation, with a common hope and destiny?

"And this generation may fairly claim that it has strengthened the work of the fathers, has
made freedom universal, and disunion impossible.  Let the young men of to-day, heirs of a great
heritage, take up the burden of government, soon to fall upon their shoulders, animated by
the patriotic fire of the Revolution and the love of liberty and union that inspired our soldiers
in the Civil War, turning their back upon all the animosities of that conflict, but clinging
with tenacious courage to all its results, and they will, in their generation, double the population
and quadruple the wealth and resources of our country.  Above all, they should keep the United
States of American in the forefront of progress, intelligence, education, temperance, religion,
and in all the virtues that tend to elevate, refine, and ennoble mankind."

General Logan delivered an eloquent and patriotic speech that was received by his audience
with great applause.  He was personally a stranger to the Connecticut people, but his western
style and manner, unlike the more reserved and quiet tone of their home orators, gave them
great pleasure.  Senators Hawley and Platt also spoke.  It is needless to say that our host
provided us with bountiful creature comforts.  On the whole we regarded the celebration as
a great success.

During the last week of August, 1885, my surviving brothers and sisters visited my wife and
myself at our residence in Mansfield. Colonel Moulton and the wives of General and Hoyt Sherman
were also present.  Several of my numerous nephews and nieces visited us with their parents.
The then surviving brothers were W. T. Sherman, Lampson P. Sherman, John Sherman, and Hoyt
Sherman, and the surviving sisters were Mrs. Elizabeth Reese and Mrs. Fanny B. Moulton.  The
brothers and sisters who died before this meeting were Charles T. Sherman, James Sherman, Mrs.
McComb, Mrs. Willock and Mrs. Bartley. All of the family attended with me the reunion of the
"Sherman Brigade," at its camp at Odell's Lake.  On the arrival of the train at the lake we
found a great crowd of soldiers and citizens waiting to meet General Sherman.  The brigade
had served under his command from Chattanooga to Atlanta.  They received him with great respect
and affection and he was deeply moved by their hearty greetings. He shook hands with all who
could reach him, but the crowd of visitors was so great that many of them could not do so.
The encampment was located at the west end of the lake, justly celebrated for the natural beauty
of its scenery, and a favorite resort for picnic excursions from far and near.  We arrived
at about twelve o'clock and were at once conducted to a stand in the encampment grounds, where
again the hand-shaking commenced, and continued for some time.  General Sherman and I were
called upon for speeches. He was disinclined to speak, and said he preferred to wander around
the camp but insisted that I should speak.  I was introduced by General Finley, and said:

"Soldiers and Citizens, Ladies and Gentlemen:--I saw in one of your published statements that
I was to make an address on this occasion. That is not exactly according to the fact.  I did
not agree to make a speech.  One year ago, when the Sherman Brigade met at Shelby, I did, according
to promise, make a prepared speech, giving the history of the organization of the 'Sherman
Brigade,' and a copy of that, I understand, was sent to surviving members of that brigade.
But few will care for this, but it may interest the wives or children of these soldiers.

"Now I do not intend to make a speech, but only a few remarks preliminary to those that will
be made to you by one more worthy to speak to soldiers than I am.

"I have always understood that at soldiers' reunions the most agreeable portion of the proceedings
is to have the old soldiers gather around the campfire to tell their stories of the war, to
exchange their recollections of the trying period through which they passed from 1861 to 1865;
to exchange greetings, to exhibit their wives and children to each other, and to meet with
their neighbors in a social way and thus recall the events of a great period in American history.
And this is really the object of these reunions.

"You do not meet here to hear speeches from those, who, like myself, were engaged in civil
pursuits during the war, and therefore, I never am called before a soldiers' reunion but I
feel compelled to make an apology for speaking."

I referred to General Grant and his recent death, and then to General Sherman as follows:

"There is another of those commanders, who is here before you to- day.  What is he?  He is
now a retired army officer.  When the war was over he became the General in Chief of the army,
served until the time fixed by the law for his retirement, and now he is a private citizen,
as plain and simple in his bearing and manners as any other of the citizens who now surround
him.  These are the kind of heroes a republic makes, and these are the kind of heroes we worship
as one free man may worship another."

General Sherman was then introduced to the vast audience, and said:

"Comrades and Friends:--A few days ago I was up on the banks of Lake Minnetonka, and was summoned
here to northern Ohio to participate in a family reunion.  I knew my brother's house in Mansfield
was large and commodious, sufficient to receive the survivors of the first generation of the
family, but I also knew that if he brought in the second and third generations he would have
to pitch a camp somewhere, and I find he has chosen this at Odell's Lake.  So, for the time
being, my friends, you must pass as part of the Sherman family, not as 'the Sherman Brigade,'
and you must represent the second and third generations of a very numerous family.

"Of course, it is not my trade or vocation to make orations or speeches.  I see before me many
faces that look to me as though they were once soldiers, and to them I feel competent to speak;
to the others I may not be so fortunate.

"But, very old comrades of the war, you who claim to be in 'Sherman's Brigade' or in any other
brigade, who took a part in the glorious Civil War, the fruits of which we are now enjoying,
I hail and thank you for the privilege of being with you this beautiful day in this lovely
forest and by the banks of yonder lake, not that I can say anything that will please you or
profit you, but there is a great pleasure in breathing the same air, in thinking the same thoughts,
in feeling the same inspirations for the future, which every member of the 'Sherman Brigade'
and the children who have succeeded them must, in contemplating the condition of our country
at this very moment of time.  Peace universal, not only at home but abroad, and America standing
high up in the niche of nations, envied of all mankind and envied because we possess all the
powers of a great nation vindicated by a war of your own making and your own termination. 
Yes, my fellow-soldiers, you have a right to sit beneath your own vine and fig tree and be
glad, for you can be afraid of no man.  You have overcome all enemies, save death, which we
must all meet as our comrades who have gone before us have done, and submit.  But as long as
we live let us come together whenever we can, and if we can bring back the memories of those
glorious days it will do us good, and, still more, good to the children who will look up to
us as examples."

He continued to speak for fifteen minutes or more, and closed with these words:

"My friends, of course I am an old man now, passing off the stage of life.  I realize that,
and I assure you that I now think more of the days of the Mexican War, the old California days,
and of the early days of the Civil War, than I do of what occurred last week, and I assure
you that, let it come when it may, I would be glad to welcome the old 'Sherman Brigade' to
my home and my fireside, let it be either in St. Louis or on the banks of the Columbia River
in Oregon.  May God smile upon you, and give you his choicest blessings.  You live in a land
of plenty.  I do not advise you to emigrate, but I assure you, wherever you go, you will find
comrades and soldiers to take you by the hand and be glad to aid you as comrades."

The gathering was a thoroughly enjoyable one, and was often recalled by those present.

During the summer of 1885 there was much languor apparent in the Republican party.  President
Cleveland was pursuing a conservative policy, removals from office were made slowly, and incumbents
were allowed to serve out their time.  Foraker and Hoadley were again nominated in Ohio for
governor by their respective parties, and the contest between them was to be repeated.

There was a feeling among Republicans of humiliation and shame that the people had placed in
power the very men who waged war against the country for years, created a vast public debt,
and destroyed the lives of hundreds of thousands of people.  This feeling was intensified by
the fact that Republicans in the south were ostracised and deprived of all political power
or influence.  In the Democratic party there were signs of dissension.  Charges of corruption
in Ohio, in the election of Payne as Senator in the place of Pendleton, were openly made, and
the usual discontent as to appointments to office that follows a change of administration was
manifest.  Under these conditions I felt it to be my duty to take a more active part in the
approaching canvass than ever before.  On the 13th of August, I met at Columbus with Foraker
and the state Republican committee, of which Asa S. Bushnell was chairman, and we prepared
for a thorough canvass in each county, the distribution of documents and the holding of meetings.
In addition to the state ticket there were to be elected members of the legislature.  There
was no contest as to the selection of a United States Senator, as, by general acquiescence,
it was understood that if the legislature should be Democratic Thurman would be elected, and
if it should be Republican I would be elected.  Governor Foster, when spoken to upon this subject,
very kindly said:

"As long as John Sherman desires to be Senator, or is willing to take the office, there is
no use for me or any other man with senatorial aspirations to be a candidate against him. 
Sherman is yet young.  He is not much over sixty, and it would be idle to dispute that he is
the best equipped man in the Republican party in Ohio for that position.  He has the learning,
the ability, the experience, the popularity."

The organization of both parties was completed and a vigorous canvass inaugurated.  Foraker
soon after commenced a series of public meetings extending to nearly every county in the state,
and everywhere made friends by his vigorous and eloquent speeches.

On the 18th I attended a pioneer picnic at Monroe, near the division line between the counties
of Butler and Warren.  This mode of reunion, mainly confined to farmers, is quite common in
Ohio, and is by far the most pleasing and instructive popular assemblage held in that state.
The discussion of politics is forbidden.  The people of the country for miles around come in
wagons, carriages, on horseback and on foot, men, women and children, with their baskets full
of food and fruit, and gather in a well-shaded grove, in families or groups, and discuss the
crops and the news, and make new or renew old acquaintance.  When the scattered picnic is going
on everyone who approaches is invited to eat.  When the appetite is satisfied all gather around
a temporary platform, and speeches, long and short, upon every topic but politics, are made.
I have attended many such meetings and all with sincere pleasure.  This particular picnic was
notable for its large attendance--estimated to be over three thousand--and the beauty of the
grove and the surrounding farms.  I made an address, or rather talked, about the early times
in Ohio, and especially in the Miami valley, a section which may well be regarded as among
the fairest and most fruitful spots in the world.  The substance of my speech was reported
and published.  The sketch I was able to give of incidents of Indian warfare, of the expeditions
of St. Clair and Wayne, of the early settlement in that neighborhood, and of the ancestors,
mainly Revolutionary soldiers, of hundreds of those who heard me, seemed to give great satisfaction.
At the close of my remarks I was requested by the Pioneer Society to write them out for publication,
to be kept as a memorial, but I never was able to do so.

On the 26th of August I made, at Mt. Gilead, Morrow county, my first political speech of the
campaign.  The people of that county were among my first constituents.  More than thirty years
before, in important and stirring times, I had appeared before them as a candidate for Congress.
I referred to the early history of the Republican party and to the action of Lincoln and Grant
in the prosecution of the war, and contrasted the opinion expressed of them by the Democratic
party then and at the time of my speech. During the war our party was the "black abolition
party," Lincoln was an "ape," Grant was a "butcher," and Union soldiers were "Lincoln hirelings."
I said:

"Our adversaries now concede the wisdom and success of all prominent Republican measures, as
well as the merits of the great leaders of the Republican party.  Only a few days since I heard
my colleague, Senator Payne, in addressing soldiers at Fremont, extol Lincoln and Grant in
the highest terms of praise and say the war was worth all it cost and he thanked God that slavery
had been abolished. Only recently, when the great procession conveyed the mortal remains of
Grant to their resting place, I heard active Confederates extol him in the highest terms of
praise and some of them frankly gloried in the success of Republican measures, and, especially,
in the abolition of slavery."

I said that the Republican party, within six years after its organization, overthrew the powerful
dominant Democratic party, and for twenty-four years afterwards conducted the operations of
a great government in war and peace, with such success as to win the support and acquiescence
of its enemies, and could fairly claim to be worthy of the confidence and support of the great
body of the people.  The defection of a few men in three Republican states had raised our old
adversaries to power again in the national government.  I continued:

"Some of the very men who boastfully threatened to break up the Union, and, with the oath of
office in support of the constitution fresh upon their lips, conspired and confederated to
overthrow it, waged war against it, and were the cause of the loss of half a million of lives
and thousands of millions of treasure, have been placed in high office again, in the very seats
of power which they abandoned with scorn and defiance.  Two members of the Confederate congress,
and one man who sympathized with them, are at the head of great departments of the government.
I saw the Union flag at half-mast, floating over the interior department in sign of honor and
mourning for the death of Jacob Thompson, whom we regarded as a defaulter and a conspirator.
This country is now represented abroad by men, who, within twenty-five years, were in arms
to overthrow it, and the governing power in the executive branch of the government is in sympathy
with the ideas of, and selects the chief officers of the government from, the men who were
in war against it.  This strange turn in events has but one example in history, and that was
the restoration of Charles II, after the brilliant but brief Protectorate of Cromwell, and,
like that restoration, is a reproach to the civilization of the age."

I referred to the "solid south," and the means by which it was held together in political fellowship
by crimes, violence and fraud which, if continued, would as surely renew all the strifes of
the Civil War as that the sun would roll around in its course.

In referring to the Republican party and its liberality I said:

"The Republican party was certainly liberal and just to the rebels lately in arms against the
country.  We deprived them of no political power, no blood was shed; no confiscation was had;
and more generous terms were conceded to them than ever before had been extended to an unsuccessful
party in a civil war.  Their leaders emphasized that at the burial of our great commander,
General Grant.  The result of the settlement by the constitutional amendments at the close
of the war was to give them increased political power, upon condition that the slaves should
be free and should be allowed to vote, and that all political distinction growing out of race,
color or previous condition of servitude shall be abolished; and yet to- day, the Republican
party is faced by a 'solid south,' in which the negro is deprived, substantially, of all his
political rights, by open violence or by frauds as mean as any that have been committed by
penitentiary convicts, and as openly and boldly done as any highway robbery.  By this system,
and by the acquiescence of a few northern states, the men who led in the Civil War have been
restored to power, and hope, practically, to reverse all the results of the war.

"This is the spectre that now haunts American politics, and may make it just as vital and necessary
to appeal to the northern states to unite again against this evil, not so open and arrogant
as slavery, but more dangerous and equally unjust.  The question then was the slavery of the
black man.  Now the question is the equality of the white man, whether a southern man in Mississippi
may, by depriving a majority of the legal voters in the state of their right to vote, exercise
twice the political power of a white man in the north, where the franchise is free and open
and equal to all.

"When we point out these offenses committed in the south, it is said that we are raising the
bloody shirt, that we are reviving the issues of the war--that the war is over.  I hope the
war is over, and that the animosities of the war will pass away, and be dead and buried.  Anger
and hate and prejudice are not wise counselors in peace or in war.  Generosity, forgiveness
and charity are great qualities of the human heart, but, like everything else that is good,
they may be carried to excess, and may degenerate into faults. They must not lead us to forget
the obligations of duty and honor. While we waive the animosities of the war, we must never
fail to hold on, with courage and fortitude, to all the results of the war.  Our soldiers fought
in no holiday contest, not merely to test the manly qualities of the men of the north and the
south, not for power or plunder, or wealth or title.  They fought to secure to themselves and
their posterity the blessings of a strong national government; the preservation of the Union--a
Union not of states, but of the people of the United States; not a confederate government,
but a national government.  The preservation of the Union was the central idea of the war.
The Confederate soldier fought for what he was led to think was the right of a state to secede
from the Union at its pleasure.  The Union soldiers triumphed.  The Confederate soldiers were
compelled to an unconditional surrender.

"Fellow-citizens, the line drawn between the two parties is now as distinct as it was during
the war, but we occupy a different field of battle.

"Then we fought for the preservation of the Union, and, as a means to that end, for the abolition
of slavery.  Now the Union is saved and slavery is abolished, we fight for the equal political
rights of all men, and the faithful observance of the constitutional amendments.  We are for
the exercise of national authority, for the preservation of rights conferred by the constitution,
and upon this broad issue we invite co-operation from the south as well as the north.

"Upon this issue we intend to make our appeal to the honest and honorable people of the southern
states.  We think they are bound in honor to faithfully observe the conditions of peace granted
to them by General Grant and prescribed by the constitutional amendments. If they do this we
will have peace, union and fraternity.  Without it we will have agitation, contests and complaints.
Upon this issue I will go before the people of the south, and, turning my back upon all the
animosities of the war, appeal only to their sense of honor and justice."

I contrasted the policy and tendencies of the two parties on the question of protection to
American industry, on good money redeemable in coin, on frauds in elections, on our pension
laws, and on all the political questions of the day.  I stated and approved the policy of the
Republican party on the temperance question.  I closed with an exhortation to support Governor
Foraker and the Republican ticket and to elect a legislature that would place Ohio where she
had usually stood, in the fore front of Republican states, for the Union, for liberty and justice
to all, without respect of race, nativity and creed.

This speech was denounced by the Democratic press as "bitterly partisan;" and so it was and
so intended.  The Republican party during its long possession of power had divided into factions,
as the Democratic party had in 1860.  We had the Blaine, the Conkling and other factions, and
many so-called third parties, and the distinctive principles upon which the Republican party
was founded were in danger of being forgotten.  It was my purpose to arouse the attention to
the Republicans in Ohio to the necessity of union and organization, and I believe this speech
contributed to that result.  It was the text and foundation of nearly all I uttered in the
canvass that followed.

Early in September Governor Hoadley, in commencing his campaign in Hamilton, assailed by speech
at Mt. Gilead, charging me with waving the bloody shirt, and reviving the animosities of the
war.  He claimed to be a friend of the negro, but did not deny the facts stated by me.  He
allowed himself to be turned from local questions, such as temperance, schools, economy, and
the government of cities, in all of which the people of Ohio had a deep interest, and as to
which the Democratic party had a defined policy, to national questions, and, especially, to
reconstruction and the treatment of freedmen in the south.  He thanked God for the "solid south."
Though an Abolitionist of the Chase school in early life, and, until recently an active Republican,
he ignored or denied the suppression of the negro vote, the organized terror and cruelty of
the Ku-Klux Klan, and the almost daily outrages published in the papers.  On the evening of
the 8th of September I made a speech at Lebanon, in which I reviewed his speech at Hamilton
in the adjoining county.  I said I would wave the bloody shirt as long as it remained bloody.
I referred to the copious evidence of outrage and wrong, including many murders of negroes
and of white Republicans, published in official reports, and challenged him to deny it.  I
said that by these crimes the south was made solid, and the men who had waged war against the
United States, though they failed in breaking up the Union, then held the political power of
the Confederate states, strengthened by counting all the negroes as free men, though practically
denying them the right of suffrage.  I said this was not only unjust to the colored man but
unjust to the white men of the north.

In conclusion I said:

"Thirty-eight Members of Congress, and of the electoral college, are based upon the six million
of colored people in the south. The effect of the crimes I have mentioned is to confer upon
the white people of the south, not only the number of votes to which they are entitled for
the white population, but also the thirty- eight votes based upon the colored population, and,
in this way, in some of the southern states, every white voter possesses the political power
of two white voters in the northern states.  The colored people have, practically, no voice
in Congress and no voice in the electoral college.  Mr. Cleveland is now President of the United
States, instead of James G. Blaine, by reason of these crimes.  I claim that this should be
corrected.  An injustice so gross and palpable will not be submitted to by the colored people
of the south, nor by fair-minded white men in the south who hate wrong and injustice; nor by
the great northern people, by whose sacrifices in the Union cause the war was brought to a
successful termination.  It will not be submitted to, and Governor Hoadley, from his former
position, ought to be one of the first to demand and insist upon a remedy, and not seek to
avoid or belittle it by cant phrases."

After I had spoken in the opera house at Lebanon I was told that the stage I occupied was within
a few feet of the place where my father died.  The room in the old hotel in which he was taken
sick, and in which he died within twenty-four hours, covered the ground now occupied by the
east end of the opera house.  As already stated, he died while a member of the supreme court
holding court at Lebanon.

This debate at long range continued through the canvass.  Governor Hoadley is an able man with
many excellent traits, but in his political life he did not add to his reputation, and wisely
chose a better occupation, the practice of his profession in the city of New York.

It is not worth while to enter into details as to the many speeches made by me in this canvass.
I spoke nearly every day until the election on the 13th of October.  While Foraker and Hoadley
continued their debate I filled such appointments as were made for me by Mr. Bushnell.  At
Toledo, when conversing with a gentleman about the condition of affairs in the south, I was
asked "What are you going to do about it?"  In reply to this inquiry I said in my speech, at
that place:  "I do not know exactly how we are going to do it, but with the help of God we
are going to arrange that the vote of the man who followed Lee shall no longer have, in national
affairs, three times the power of the vote of the man who followed Grant. The tendency of events
guided by a growing popular opinion will, I believe, secure this condition."

The meetings grew in number and enthusiasm.  The largest meeting I ever witnessed within four
walls was at the Music Hall in Cincinnati, on the 22nd of September.  The auditorium, the balcony,
the gallery, even the windows were filled, and thousands outside were unable to enter.  This
and similar scenes in Cleveland and other cities indicated the success of the Republican ticket.
Great interest was taken in the canvass in Ohio by many other states, as the vote in Ohio would
indicate the current of popular opinion. The result was the election of Foraker by a majority
of 17,451, and of Robert P. Kennedy as lieutenant governor.  The legislature elected was Republican
by a decided majority, the size of which depended upon the official returns from Hamilton county,
where frauds had been committed by the Democratic party.

Soon after the election I was urged by Senator Mahone to take part in the canvass in Virginia
in which he was interested.  I doubted the policy of accepting, but, assuming that he knew
best, I agreed to speak in Petersburg and Richmond.  Governor Foraker accepted a like invitation
and spoke in the Shenandoah valley.  On my way I addressed a spontaneous crowd in Washington,
the only place in the United States where no elections are held, and there I could talk about
frauds at elections.  I had denounced fraud and violence in elections in the south, and at
Washington I had to confess recent frauds attempted or practiced in Cincinnati.  The worst
feature that the frauds in Ohio were forgery and perjury, committed by criminals of low degree
for money, while in the south the crimes were shared by the great body of the people and arose
from the embers of a war that had involved the whole country.  I gave as a sample of the frauds
in the 4th ward of Cincinnati this instance:

"As soon as the recent election was over an organized gang stopped the counting in fifteen
precincts.  Nobody but the gang knew what the vote was.  This could be for no motive but to
commit fraud, and frauds enough were committed in Hamilton county to change the result on the
legislative ticket of four senators and nine representatives.

"There were probably 500 or 600 voters in the 4th ward, and according to previous elections
about one-fourth were Republicans and the rest were Democrats.  Well, they made up a registration
of 700. When the day of the election came they tore up the registration papers and let every
fellow vote as many times as he wanted until they got 996 votes in the ballot box.  Then that
was not all.  The Republican judge got angry and went away, but he took the key. Then they
broke open the box, tied it up with a rope, and took it to the police officer, and then changed
it so that when it was counted over 900 votes were Democratic and only 48 Republican!"

A similar fraud was attempted at Columbus in sight of the penitentiary. The returns of elections
had been filed with the county records. Between Saturday night and Monday morning thieves stole
one of the returns and added three hundred tallies for every Democratic candidate, thus changing
the number of ballots from 208 to 508. The judges were about to count this return, knowing
it was a forgery, when public indignation was aroused in the city of Columbus, shared in by
its most distinguished Democratic citizens, and fraud was prevented.  I felt, and so declared,
that these mean crimes were infinitely more despicable than the violence in the south, which
sprang from a fear of the southern people that their institutions would be impaired by the
votes of men debased by slavery and ignorance.

I went from Washington to Petersburg, where I was hospitably entertained by General Mahone.
He had been greatly distinguished for his courage, ability and success, as a Confederate general
in the Civil War, and had long been a popular favorite in Virginia. He took the lead on questions
affecting the debt of Virginia in opposition to the Democratic party, and a legislature in
favor of his opinions having been elected, he became a Senator of the United States.  He voted
as a rule with Republican Senators, but maintained a marked independence of political parties.
I admired him for his courage and fidelity, and was quite willing to speak a good word for
him in the election of a legislature that would designate his successor.

The meeting at Petersburg was held in a large opera house on the evening of the 29th of October.
When I faced my audience the central part of the house and the galleries seemed to be densely
packed by negroes, while in the rear was a fringe of white men. The line of demarkation was
clearly indicated by color, most of the white men standing and seeming ill at ease.  The speech
was fairly well received.  In opening I said my purpose was to demonstrate that what the Republican
party professed in Ohio as to national questions was the same that it professed in Virginia,
and that the practical application of the principles of the Republican party would be of vast
benefit to the State of Virginia, while Democratic success would tend more and more to harden
the times and prevent the industrial development of Virginia.

"Not only your newspaper," I said, "but the distinguished gentleman who is the Democratic candidate
for Governor of the State of Virginia, has said to you that I was waving the bloody shirt while
he was contending under the Union flag.  If he meant, by waving the bloody shirt, that I sought,
in any way, to renew the animosities of the war, then he was greatly mistaken, for in the speech
to which he refers, and in every speech I made in Ohio, I constantly said that the war was
over and the animosities of the war should be buried out of sight; that I would not hold any
Confederate soldier responsible for what he did during the war, and that all I wished was to
maintain and preserve the acknowledged results of the war.  Among these, I claim, is the right
of every voter to cast one honest vote and have it counted; that every citizen, rich or poor,
native or naturalized, white or black, should have equal civil and political rights, and that
every man of lawful age should be allowed to exercise his right to vote, without distinction
of race or color or previous condition.  I charge, among other things, that these constitutional
rights and privileges have been disregarded by the Democratic party, especially in the southern
states."

The speech was largely historical in its character and evidently rather beyond the comprehension
of the body of my audience.  The scene and the surroundings made a vivid impression on my mind.
Here, I felt, were two antagonistic races widely differing in every respect, the old relations
of master and slave broken, with new conditions undeveloped, the master impoverished and the
slave free without the knowledge to direct him, and with a belief that liberty meant license,
and freedom idleness.  William McKinley, then a Member of the House of Representatives, and
Green B. Raum then spoke, Mr. McKinley confining his speech mainly to a simple exposition of
the tariff question, which his audience could easily understand.

The next day, at the invitation of John S. Wise, then the Republican candidate for Governor
of Virginia, I went to Richmond, and spent a pleasant day with him.  In the evening I attended
a mass meeting in the open air, at which there was a very large attendance.  There was no disorder
in the large crowd before me, but off to the right, at some distance, it was evident that a
party of men were endeavoring to create some disturbance, and to distract attention from the
speeches.  While I was speaking Wise rose and, in terms very far from polite, denounced the
people making the noise.  He succeeded in preventing any interruption of the meeting.  The
speech was made without preparation, but, I think, better for the occasion that the one in
Petersburg.  I stated that I had been born and lived in a region where a large portion of the
population was from Virginia and Kentucky; that I had always been taught to believe in the
doctrines of the great men illustrious in Virginia history.  To the charge made that I was
engaged in waving the bloody shirt I said:

"If it means that I said anything in Ohio with a view to stir up the animosities of the Civil
War, then, I say, it is greatly mistaken.  I never uttered an unkind word about the people
of Virginia that mortal man can quote.  I have always respected and loved the State of Virginia,
its memories, its history, its record, and its achievements.

"Again, although I was a Union man from my heart and every pulsation, just as my friend Wise
was a Confederate soldier, yet I never heard in Ohio a man call in question either the courage
or purity of motive of any Confederate soldier who fought in the Confederate ranks.  I never
uttered such a sentiment.  I disclaim it. I said also, that by constitutional amendment agreed
to by Virginia, every man of proper age in this country was armed for his protection with the
right to cast one honest vote, and no more, and have that vote counted, and you, as well as
I, are bound to protect every man in the enjoyment of that right.

"There is the ground I stood on in Ohio, and the ground I stand on now."

I closed my address as follows:

"And now a word to the best citizens of Richmond.  If the criminal classes can deprive a colored
man or a white Republican of his right to vote, as soon as they have accomplished it, then
these rascals--because every man who resorts to this policy is a rascal --then these rascals
will soon undermine their own party.  They will begin to cheat each other after they have cheated
the Republicans out of their political power.  My countrymen, there is no duty so sacred resting
upon any man among you, I don't care what his politics are.  It is honesty that I like to appeal
to.  I say there is no man who can be deprived of his right to vote without injuring you, from
the wealthiest in the city of Richmond down to the humblest man among you, white or black.

"There is no crime that is meaner, there is no crime that is so destructive to society, there
is no crime so prejudicial to the man who commits it as the crime of preventing a citizen from
participating in the government.  Here I intend to leave the question.  I appeal to you, of
whatever party, or color, or race, or country, to give us in Virginia at this election an honest
vote and an honest count, and if Lee is elected, well and good; if Wise is elected, better yet."

The Democrats carried the state and Wise was defeated.

Congress convened on the 7th of December, 1885.  The death of Vice President Thomas A. Hendricks,
on the 25th of November, was announced by Senator Voorhees, who offered appropriate resolutions,
the consideration of which was postponed until January 26, 1886, when eloquent orations by
Senators Voorhees, Hampton, Saulsbury, Evarts, Ransom, Spooner and Harrison were delivered
in commemoration of his life and death.  I added my sincere tribute to his marked ability and
personal worth.

On the first day of the session after the opening prayer, Mr. Edmunds offered the following
resolution:

"Resolved, That John Sherman, a Senator from the State of Ohio, be and he hereby is, chosen
president pro tempore of the Senate."

Following the usual form Mr. Voorhees moved to strike out the words "John Sherman, a Senator
from the State of Ohio," and insert "Isham G. Harris, a Senator from the State of Tennessee."

This was decided in the negative by the vote of 29 yeas and 34 nays, and thereupon the resolution
was adopted.  I was escorted to the chair by Senators Edmunds and Voorhees and, having taken
the oath prescribed by law, said:

"Senators, I return you my grateful thanks for the high honor you have conferred upon me.

"In common with all the people of the United States I share in profound sorrow for the death
of the Vice President, especially designated by the constitution to act as president of the
Senate. It is an impressive lesson of the uncertain tenure by which we all hold office and
life.  The contingency had happened which compels you now, at the beginning of the session,
to choose a president pro tempore.

"In assuming this position, without special aptitude or experience as a presiding officer,
I feel that for a time, at least, I shall have often to appeal to the habitual courtesy and
forbearance of Senators.  Fortunately the rules of the Senate are simple and clear. My aim
will be to secure the ready and kindly obedience and enforcement of them, so that in an orderly
way the sense of the majority may be ascertained and the rights of the minority may be protected.

"I can only say, Senators, that while I hold this position I will endeavor, to the utmost of
my ability, to be just and impartial, and I invoke from each of you assistance and forbearance."

This honor was unsought by me.  The public prints had, as usual, discussed the choice of president
of the Senate, but I made no mention of it to any Senator.  I was gratified with the choice,
chiefly because it would, in a measure, relieve me from burdensome details, and was an evidence
of the good will of my associates.

I received many letters of congratulation on this event, one of which, from Mr. Cox, I insert:

  "United States Legation,          }
  "Constantinople, January 23, 1886.}
"Dear Mr. Senator:--I am reminded by my wife of a courtesy I have
neglected.  It is that of congratulation upon your accession to
the post lately held by my friend (from Muskingum county) Thomas
A. Hendricks.  You have associations with that valley also, and
they are connected with the best friend I ever had in Congress,
General Samuel R. Curtis, with whom I used to associate in my callow
congressional days.

"Besides, I never forget the kindness with which my father used to regard C. R. Sherman, your
father, for making him clerk of the supreme court of Muskingum, in early days.

"Here I am, aloof from all old Muskingum memories, or rather, scenes.  As I look out of my
balcony, on this spring day in midwinter, I see the Golden Horn brimming full of ships and
other evidences of interchange; and far beyond it, 'clear as a fountain in July, when we see
each grain of gravel,' Mt. Olympus lifts a double crown of snow.

"But I only meant to testify to you, from these remote nations, the pardonable pride of an
Ohioan, and a veteran Congressman--in your elevation.

"When you write to the general, remember me to him kindly.

"Mrs. Cox desired to be kindly regarded to your wife and yourself. She joins me in felicitations.

  "With esteem, etc.,
  "S. S. Cox.
"Hon. John Sherman."

President Cleveland's first annual message was delivered to the Senate on the 8th of December.

This specific principle, if fairly and justly applied to all industries alike, would be a basis
for customs duties that all would agree to, but, when made, a struggle arises in determining
the articles to be protected, and those to be free of duty.  The President said that the reduction
should be made of duties upon the imported necessaries of life.  Such articles are not imported;
they are mainly produced by our own people.  By common consent the few articles that are imported,
classed as necessaries of life, and which cannot be produced in this country, are already free
of duty.  When Congress undertook to reduce the revenue it was found difficult to apply the
rule suggested by the President.

He properly stated that the mere desire to utilize the silver product of the country should
not lead to a coinage not needed for a circulating medium. He stated his view of the effect
of this policy, and in clear and forcible words urged Congress to suspend the purchase of silver
bullion and the coinage of silver dollars until they should be required by the business of
the country.  This is the same question now pending, but under circumstances of greater urgency.

The President enlarged fully upon this vital subject and has adhered to his opinions tenaciously.
He was re-elected with full knowledge of these opinions and now, no doubt, will soon again
press them upon Congress.  The efforts made to carry into effect the policy of the President
will be more fully stated hereafter.

The Secretary of the Treasury, David Manning, in his report to Congress, amplified the statement
made of the receipts and expenditures of the government and gave estimates for the then current
and the next fiscal year.  He was much more explicit than the President in his statement of
reform in taxation.  He expressed more at length than the President the objections to the further
coinage of the silver dollars.  He stated the superior convenience of paper money to coins
of either gold or silver, but that it should be understood that a sufficient quantity of actual
coin should be honestly and safely stored in the treasury to pay the paper when presented.
He entered into an extended and interesting history of the two metals as coined in this country
and the necessity of a monetary unit as the standard of value.  His history of the coinage
of the United States is as clear, explicit and accurate as any I have read.

On the 12th of December, 1885, I received from Governor Hoadley an official letter notifying
me, as president of the Senate, that a marble statue of General Garfield had been placed in
the hall of the old House of Representatives, in pursuance of the law inviting each state to
contribute statues of two of its eminent citizens, and saying:

"It is hoped that it may be found worthy of acceptance and approval as a fit contribution from
this state to the United States, in whose service President Garfield passed so much of his
life and whose chief executive officer he was at the time of his death."

On the 5th of January, 1886, I submitted to the Senate, in connection with Governor Hoadley's
letter, concurrent resolutions returning the thanks of Congress to the Governor, and through
him to the people of Ohio, for the statue, and accepting it in the name of the nation.  In
presenting these resolutions I expressed at considerable length the estimate of the people
of Ohio of the character and public services of Garfield, and closed as follows:

"The people of Ohio, among whom he was born and bred, placed his image in enduring marble in
the silent senate of the dead, among the worthies of every period of American history, not
claiming for him to have been the greatest of all, but only as one of their fellow-citizens,
whom, when living, they greatly loved and trusted, whose life was spent in the service of his
whole country at the period of its greatest peril, and who, in the highest places of trust
and power, did his full duty as a soldier, a patriot, and a statesman."

The resolutions were then adopted.

The legislature of Ohio that convened on the 3rd of January, 1886, was required to elect a
Senator, as my successor, to serve for six years following the expiration of my term on the
4th of March, 1887.  The Republican members of the legislature held an open joint caucus on
the 7th of January, and nominated me for re-election, to be voted for at the joint convention
of the two houses on the following Tuesday.  The vote in the caucus was unanimous, there being
no other name suggested.  The legislature was required to meet an unexampled fraud at the recent
election, practiced in Hamilton county, where, four Republican senators and eleven Republican
members had been chosen.  A lawless and desperate band of men got possession of the ballot
boxes in two or three wards of the city of Cincinnati, broke open the boxes and changed the
ballots and returns so as to reverse the result of the election of members of the legislature.
These facts were ascertained by the finding and judgment of the circuit and supreme courts,
but the supreme court held that the power to eliminate such frauds and forgeries did not reside
in the courts but only in the senate and house of representatives of the state, respectively.
Each house was the judge of the election of its members.  This palpable and conceded fraud
had to be acted upon promptly.  The house of representatives, upon convening, appointed a committee
to examine the returns, and on the fifth day of the session reported that the returns were
permeated with fraud and forgeries, and that the persons elected and named by the committee
were entitled to seats instead of those who held the fraudulent certificates of election. 
Without these changes the Republican majority was three on joint ballot.  The report was adopted
after a full and ample hearing, and the Republican members were seated.

In the senate a committee was also appointed and came to the same conclusion.  The senators
holding the fraudulent certificates claimed the right to vote on their own cases, which was
denied by Lieutenant Governor Kennedy, the presiding officer, and the Republican senators were
awarded their seats, but this did not occur until some months after the election of United
States Senator, which took place on the 13th of January, when I was duly elected, receiving
in the senate 17 votes and Thurman 20, and in the house 67 votes and Thurman 42, making a majority
of 22 for me on joint ballot.

I was notified at Washington of my election and was invited to visit the legislature, members
of the senate and house of both parties concurring.  It so happened that at this time I had
accepted an invitation from President Cleveland to attend a diplomatic dinner at the White
House.  I called upon him to withdraw my acceptance, and, on explaining the cause, he congratulated
me on my election.

The reception by the two houses was arranged to be at 4 o'clock p. m. on the day after the
election.  I arrived in Columbus at 3:30, and, accompanied by Governor Foraker and a committee
of the two houses, proceeded immediately to the hall of the House, where the legislature and
a great company had assembled.  I was introduced by Lieutenant Governor Kennedy.  George G.
Washburn delivered an eloquent address of welcome in behalf of the legislature, closing as follows:

"Your return to the Senate in 1881 was only additional evidence of our continued confidence
and esteem, and on this, the occasion of your fifth election to that honored position, I tender
to you the hearty congratulations of the general assembly and of the citizens of this great
commonwealth.  Conscious that you have rendered far greater service to the people of your native
state than it will be possible for them to repay by any honors they can confer upon you, I
again bid you a most cordial welcome and invoke the continued guidance and protection of the
same Almighty Being who has led you thus far to well merit the exalted title of 'good and faithful
servant.'"

After the applause which followed Mr. Washburn's address had subsided, I responded in part
as follows:

"My first duty on this occasion, after the magnificent reception you have given me, it to express
to you my profound sense of the high honor you have conferred upon me.  I have often, in a
somewhat busy life, felt how feeble are words to express the feelings of the heart.  When all
has been said that one can say, there is still something wanting to convey an adequate expression
of gratitude and obligation.  This I feel now more than ever before, when you have selected
me for the fifth time to serve as a Member of the Senate of the United States.

"Such trust and confidence reposed in me by the people of Ohio, through their chosen representatives,
imposes upon me an obligation of duty and honor, more sacred than any words or promises can create.

* * * * *

"And now, gentlemen, for the future term of service to which you have elected me, I can only,
with increased experience, do what I have done in the past, and, with every motive that can
influence any man, seek to preserve the favor and confidence of a people as intelligent as
any on the face of the globe.

"As many of you know, I did not seek re-election to the Senate. I sincerely felt that there
were many citizens of the State of Ohio of my political faith who might rightfully aspire to
the dignity of the office of Senator of the United States.  I was very willing to give way
to any of them, but you have thought it best to continue me in this position.  It comes to
me without solicitation or intrigue, or any influence that is not honorable to you and to me.
I trust it will not prove injurious to any portion of the people of the State of Ohio, whether
they agree with me in political opinions or not.

"I accept the office as a trust to be performed under the active vigilance of political adversaries
and the partial scrutiny of friends, but with the sole object of promoting the honor and prosperity
of the United States.  I can have no motive of selfishness or ambition to turn me from a faithful
performance of every duty attached to the office.

* * * * *

"I assure you, gentlemen, that, without recalling that I am elected by a party, I will go back
to Washington with the earnest desire to perform the duties that you have assigned me, with
the hope to contribute, to the best of my abilities, not merely to the success of my party,
but to the good of the whole country.

"To me the national government in our system is the father, the protector of our national honor,
our defender against enemies at home and abroad, while the state is the good mother who guards
sacredly the home, the family and the domestic interests of life, to be beloved by every good
citizen of the state, the fountain and source of the greatest blessings of domestic life. 
Ohio can justly claim to be the equal of any other in the sisterhood of states, central in
location, rich in resources, the common pathway of all the states, containing over three millions
of people as happy in their surroundings as those of any community in the world.  We must do
our part to advance and improve our condition by wise legislation and by the moral influences
of education and religion.  In this way only can Ohio sustain her high and honorable standing
as a part of a great country, eloquently and truly described by Canon Farrar as 'in numbers
the greatest, in strength the most overwhelming, in wealth the most affluent, of all the great
nations of the world.'"

My speech was well received by both Democrats and Republicans.

In the evening a general reception of ladies and gentlemen was held in the senate chamber,
when hand shaking and social congratulations occurred, participated in by citizens of Columbus
and other places. The next day I returned to Washington.

I observed closely the course pursued by the press of the country in respect to my election.
As a rule it was received with favor by papers of both parties.  The election of a Senator
of the United States by such frauds as had been practiced by Democrats in Cincinnati would
be a bad example that might be followed by other crimes, violence or civil war.  The weakness
in our system of government is likely to be developed by a disputed election.  We touched the
line of danger in the contest between Hayes and Tilden.  Some guards against fraud at elections
have been adopted, notably the Australian ballot, but the best security is to impress succeeding
generations with the vital importance of honest elections, and to punish with relentless severity
all violations of election laws.

During this Congress, by reason of my position as presiding officer, I participated only occasionally
in the current debate, introduced only private bills, and had charge of no important measure.

Mr. Eustis, on the 8th of February, introduced a resolution instructing the committee on finance
to inquire whether it had been the custom for the assistant treasurer at New Orleans to receive
deposits of silver dollars and at a future period issue silver certificates therefor.  This
led to a long and rambling debate, in which I took part.  I stated my efforts, as Secretary
of the Treasury, and those of my successors in that office, to put the silver dollars in circulation;
that they were sent to the different sub-treasuries to be used in payment of current liabilities,
but silver certificates were exchanged for them when demanded.  Also, when gold coin or bullion
came into the United States in the course of trade, and was inconvenient to transport or to
use in large payments for cotton or other products, the treasurer of the United States, or
his assistants in all parts of the country, issued silver certificates in exchange for gold,
that in this way the coin reserve in the treasury was maintained and increased without cost,
that during one season $80,000,000 gold was in this way acquired by the treasury.  I could
have said later on, that, until within three years, when the receipts of the government were
insufficient to pay its current expenditures, there was no difficulty in securing gold and
silver coin in exchange for United States notes, treasury notes and silver certificates.  The
greater convenience of paper money in large commercial transactions created a demand for it,
and gold and silver were easily obtained at par for all forms of paper money issued by the
government.  The exchange was temporarily discontinued by Secretary McCulloch.  It is a proper
mode of fortifying the gold reserve and ought to be continued, but cannot be when expenditures
exceed the revenue, or when there is the slightest fear that the treasury will not be able
to pay its notes in coin.

On the 8th of March John F. Miller, a Senator from California, died, and funeral services were
conducted in the Senate on the 13th, when I announced that:

"By order of the Senate, the usual business will be suspended this day, to enable the Senate
to participate in the funeral ceremonies deemed appropriate on the death of John F. Miller,
late an honored Member of this body from the State of California."

The services were conducted in the Senate Chamber by Rev. William A. Leonard, rector of St.
John's church, the chaplain of the Senate, Dr. Huntley, pronouncing the benediction, after
which the following statement was made by me, as president of the Senate:

"The funeral ceremonies deemed appropriate to this occasion in the Senate Chamber are now terminated.
We consign all that is mortal of our brother to the custody of an officer of the Senate and
a committee of its Members, to be conveyed to his home on the Pacific, and there committed
for burial to those who have honored him and loved him so much when living.  The Senate, as
a body, will now attend the remains to the station."

Mr. Miller was highly esteemed by his associates in the Senate. He was born in Indiana a few
miles from Cincinnati, Ohio.  After graduating as a lawyer he went to California, in 1853,
but returned to his native state, and at the outbreak of the war entered the Union army with
the rank of colonel.  That he was a gallant soldier is shown by the fact that on his return
to Indiana, at the close of the war, Governor Morton presented him a sword which he had promised
the soldier of the state who had distinguished himself most and reflected the greatest credit
on his state and country. At the close of the war he returned to California, and, after a few
years, was elected, by a Republican legislature, to the United States Senate.  He was not a
frequent or lengthy speaker, but was a man of thought, of attention, of industry and practical
sagacity, and brought to every question patient and persistent energy and intelligence.  In
his manner he was quiet, dignified and courteous. For years he suffered greatly from wounds
received in the war, which no doubt shortened his life.  He held the position of chairman of
the committee on foreign relations, to which I succeeded him.

During April and May interstate commerce was the subject of an extended debate in which I participated.
Amendments to the bill passed two years previously, involving "the long haul and the short
haul" and whether Congress should attempt to legislate as to transportation within a single
state, were debated, and no problems of legislation have been more difficult.  The Interstate
Commerce Commission organized under these laws was invested with extraordinary powers and its
action has been beneficial to the public, but in many cases has seriously crippled many railroad
corporations, and bankrupted some of them.

During the latter part of this session I was called upon to perform a very disagreeable duty.
The election of my colleague, Mr. Payne, as a Member of the Senate, after an active contest
with Mr. Pendleton, gave rise to charges of corruption, not against him personally, but against
those who had charge of his canvass in the legislature. The succeeding legislature of Ohio
was Republican and undertook to examine these charges by a committee of its house of representatives.
The charges made and the testimony taken were sent by the house to the Senate of the United
States, with a resolution requesting further examination and that the election be vacated.
The papers were referred to the committee on privileges and elections, the majority of whom
reported that the charges were not proven, and asked that the committee be discharged from
further consideration of the matter.  The minority of the committee reported in favor of the
inquiry proposed.  I felt it to be my duty to the people of Ohio to insist upon an investigation,
but in no spirit of unkindness to my colleague.  It was the first and only time I had occasion
to bring before the Senate the politics of Ohio.  My relations with Mr. Payne were friendly.
I knew him, and respected him as a prominent citizen of Cleveland and regarded well by his
neighbors. I believed that whatever corruption occurred at his election he had no personal
knowledge of it, and that his honor would not be touched by the testimony to be produced.

On the 22nd of July I made a long speech upon the report of the committee, reviewing the evidence
presented by the Ohio legislature and insisting that it was ample to justify and require a
full and thorough examination by the committee.  I disclaimed any desire to reflect upon the
motives, or the honor, or the conduct, or the opinions, of the Senators who differed with me,
saying:

"I believe from my own knowledge of the history of events in Ohio, as well as from the papers
sent to us, that there is a profound conviction in the minds of the body of the people of Ohio
of all political parties that in the election of my colleague there was gross corruption, by
the use of large sums of money to corrupt and purchase the votes of members of the general
assembly.

"Now, that is a fact.  Whether sufficient evidence has been produced before you to justify
this belief is for you to say.  Whether sufficient has been said here to put you upon an inquiry,
the fact remains that the people of Ohio believe, that in the election of my colleague, there
was the corrupt use of money sufficient to change the result."

I then entered upon the details of the charges and testimony submitted to the committee, and
concluded as follows:

"It is not sufficient for us to state that the case made by this printed testimony is not strong
enough to convict.  It is a question whether it is sufficient to excite a suspicion, because
upon a suspicion a Senator's seat and his right to hold a seat here may be inquired into. 
Therefore, with due deference to the distinguished and eminent gentlemen who treat this case
as if we were now passing upon the guilt or innocence of an accused with the view of a lawyer
and the strictness of a lawyer, it seems to me they have confounded the stage of this inquiry.
It is now an inquiry only in the hands of a committee of our body to advise whether or not,
in these papers or in any that can be produced, there is cause for investigation, or whether
there is reasonable and probable cause that can be produced.  If so, then the inquiry goes
on.  The final judgement, however, is only arrived at when we shall have completed testimony
of a legal character, when, with grave and deliberate justice, and with the kindness that we
always give to our colleagues here, we proceed to render our judgment.

"I have said more than I intended to say when I rose.  I will now add, in conclusion, that
I consider that I perform a duty to my state, and especially to the party that I represent
here, and all we can say to you is that we have believed and do now believe, mainly upon the
statements made by Democratic editors and Democratic citizens, for they know more about it
than we do, that upon the belief generally held in the State of Ohio that fraud and corruption
did supervene in this election we ask you to make such inquiries as will satisfy your conscience
whether that charge is true or false.  If it is true, you alone are the judges of it.  If it
is false, then you should punish the men who started these charges and you should vindicate
the men who have been unjustly arraigned.

"In any view I can take of it, I believe it is the duty of the Senate of the United States,
as it regards its own honor and the future of our country, never the leave this matter in its
present condition, to be believed by some and disbelieved by others, to be made the subject
of party contest and party chicanery, but let us have a fair, judicial, full investigation
into the merits of these accusations.  If they are false, stamp them with the brand of ignominy;
if they are true, deal with the facts proven as you think is just and right."

The debate upon the report attracted much attention and was participated in by many Senators.
The motion of the majority of the committee was adopted by the vote of 44 yeas and 17 nays.
The Senate thus denied that the case made by the legislature of Ohio did justify an inquiry
into the election of Senator Payne.  He filled out the measure of his term and still lives
at his home in Cleveland, honored and respected, at the age of eighty-five.

Congress adjourned August 5, 1886.

I had been invited to deliver an address, upon the celebration of the sixty-fourth anniversary
of the birth of General U. S. Grant, at the Metropolitan church in Washington on the 27th of
April, 1886.  The text given me was "Grant and the New South."  As this brief speech expressed
my appreciation of the character of General Grant soon after his death, and my presage of the
new south, I insert it here:

"Ladies and Gentlemen:--Our friends have given me a very great theme and very little time in
which to present it to you.  The new south is one of the mysteries which time only can unfold.
It is to us, and, I fear, will be for generations to come, one of those problems which tax
the highest abilities of statesmen.  It is like the Irish question to England and the Eastern
question to Europe. We can only judge of the future by the past.  I can base my hope for the
new south only upon the probable results of the changed conditions grafted upon the old south
by the war; more a matter of hope and expectation than as yet of realization.  Still we may
hope very much even from the present signs of the times and upon what the south ought to be
if not upon what it is.

"We know what the old south was.  It was an oligarchy called a democracy.  I do not speak this
word in an offensive sense, but simply as descriptive of the character of the government of
the south before the war.  One-third of the people of the south were slaves.  More than another
third were deprived, by the nature of the institutions among which they lived, of many of the
advantages absolutely indispensable to the highest civilization.  Less than one-fourth of the
population were admirably trained, disciplined and qualified for the highest duties of mankind.
The south was very much such a democracy as Rome and Greece were at some periods of their history;
a democracy founded upon the privileges of the few and the exclusion of the many.  Very much
like the democracy of the barons of Runnymede, who, when they met together to dictate Magna
Charta to King John, guarded fully their own privileges as against the king, but cared but
little for the rights of the people. And so with the south--the old south.  But it was an able
oligarchy.

"Among the brightest names in the American diadem were many men of the south--at the head of
whom, and at the head of all mankind, was the name of Washington.  And so, in all our history,
the south, misnamed a democracy, did furnish to the United States many of their leading lights,
and the highest saints in our calendar.  They were able men.  All who came in contact with
them felt their power and their influence.  Trained, selected for leading pursuits, they exercised
a controlling influence in our politics.  They held their slaves in subjection and the middle
classes in ignorance, but extended their power and influence, so as to control, in the main,
the policy of this country, at home and abroad.  They disciplined our forces, led our parties,
and made our law.

"General Grant, in the popular mind, represents the impersonation of the forces that broke
the old south.  Not that thousands of men did not do as much as he within the limits of their
opportunities. Not that every soldier who followed his flag did not perform his duty in the
same sense as General Grant.  But General Grant was the head, the front, the selected leader;
and therefore his name is the impersonation of that power in the war which broke the old south,
and preserved our Union to your children, and I trust your children's children, to the remotest
posterity.  But, while we praise Grant and the Union soldiers, we must remember that Abraham
Lincoln was the genius of the times.  He pointed out the way.  He foresaw the events that came.
He did not like war.  He hated war. He loved the south as few men did.  He was born of the
south--in his early life reared in the south.  All his kin were in the south. He belonged to
that middle or humble class of men in the south who were most seriously oppressed by all their
surroundings--by the slavery of the south.  He hated slavery, if he hated anything, but I do
not believe he hated the owners of slaves.  He loved all mankind.  No man better than he could
have uttered those words: 'Malice towards none, charity for all.'  That was Abraham Lincoln.
He was driven into the war reluctantly.  At first, he tried to prevent it, and would not see
the necessity for it.  He ridiculed it, and believed that the time would speedily come when
all the excitement springing up in the south would pass away.

"But the inevitable and irrepressible conflict was upon him, and he met the responsibility
with courage and sagacity.  A higher power than Abraham Lincoln, a power that rules and governs
the universe of men, decreed the war as a necessary and unavoidable event, to prepare the way
for a new south and a new north, and a more perfect Union.  The war did come as a scourge and
a resurrection. Grant was the commander of the Union armies, and at the close of the war more
than what we had hoped for at the beginning was accomplished.  When the war commenced no man
among those in public life contemplated or expected the speedy abolition of slavery in the
District of Columbia, and in the United States of America.  I can say that, the winter before
the war commenced, no man in public life in Washington expected the untold benefits and good
that have come to mankind as the result of the war, by the Act of Emancipation --unforeseen
then, but thankfully appreciated now, by the whole American people; even by the masters of
the slaves.

"Now fellow-citizens, the new south is founded upon the ruins of the old.  It inherits the
prejudices, the institutions and some of the habits of the old south.  No wise man will overlook
this, and should not expect that the southern people will at once yield to the logic of events;
but every patriotic man ought to do his utmost to bring about, as soon as possible, a cheerful
acquiescence in the results of the war.  You cannot in a single generation, much less a single
decade, change the ideas of centuries.  And, therefore, we must not be impatient with the new
south.  And we who come from the north must not expect them at once to lay aside all ideas
with which they were born and which they inherited from their ancestors for generations.  Therefore,
it was to be expected that the south would be somewhat disturbed, and would be somewhat slow
in their movements; that it must be born again and live an infancy and take its ordinary course
in human life.  It must grow as Topsy grew. Remember, at that time, before the war, this country
was a confederacy, not of states, but a confederacy of sections.  There were but two parties
to that confederacy, one was the north and the other was the south.  On every question, great
and small, that division in American life and American politics arose.  Before the war and
during the war party lines were drawn on the sectional line, north and south.  The parties
in this country were sectional parties, and even up to this time we have not broken down the
asperity which existed, growing out of this sectional condition of affairs.

"Now that slavery is gone, parties ought to be based on other conditions than sectional lines.
There is no question now existing between the north and the south, and politicians will soon
find that they must base their divisions of party lines upon some other question than between
the north and the south.  I see growing up every day the evidence of that feeling that this
sectional controversy is at an end.  Although the ghost is not buried--the dead body lies mouldering
in the grave.

"What then, is the first duty of both sections, now that slavery is abolished.  It is to base
party divisions upon other than sectional lines.  It is to adopt a policy approved by the patriotic
men of both sections, that will develop the resources, improve the conditions, and advance
the interests of the whole people.  The north is ready for this consummation.  There never
was a time in the history of this government, from the time the constitution was framed to
this hour, when there was less party spirit among the mass of the people of the United States.
Nearly all that is left is among mere politicians.  The people of the United States desire
to see these differences buried, and new questions, living questions of the present and future,
form the line of demarkation between parties.  The north has made enormous growth and development
since the war.  Immense capital is seeking investment, and millions of idle men are seeking
employment.  The south, from a state of chaos, is showing marked evidence of growth and progress,
and these two sections, no longer divided by slavery, can be united again by the same bonds
that united our fathers of the revolution.

"Now, ladies and gentlemen, let me state briefly the conditions upon which the new south can
secure the greatest amount of good for its people--conditions that can be accepted by men who
served in either army (who wore the blue or the gray), both Confederate and Union soldiers.
If these elemental conditions are accepted fairly, as I hope they will be by the south, the
union will be complete without either north or south or sectional or party lines.

"First, there must be recognized in every part of this country, without respect to race or
color or condition, the equality of rights and privileges between man and man.  This fundamental
principle is now ingrafted upon our constitution.  It can never be erased.  There it stands;
and although, from time to time, parties and men may refuse to observe the spirit of that great
provision in the constitution, there it will stand, and in time--and I trust a not far distant
time--it will be recognized by every man and woman and child in this broad land, white or black,
north or south. It is not safe for it to be otherwise.  A right plainly given by the constitution
and the laws, withheld or denied, is an uneasy grievance which will never rest.  And, therefore,
the time is not far distant, when those now strongly actuated by the prejudices and feelings
of race will recognize this important doctrine.  They will feel that it is for their own safety
and for their own good. Blacks and whites are spread all over the south.  They cannot be separated
without the fiat of the Almighty, and such a fiat has never been issued except once, when the
Israelites marched out from slavery in Egypt, and it took them about forty years to travel
a short way.

"One-third of the population of the south is of the negro race, and two-thirds of the white
race.  Whatever may have been thought of the wisdom of the policy of emancipation, it was the
logical result of the war, has been finally adopted, and will never be changed.  It is idle
to discuss schemes to separate these races except by voluntary and individual movement, but
they will live and increase, generation after generation, the common occupants of the new south.
What is needed above all else is to secure the harmonious living and working of these two elements,
to secure to both the peaceful enjoyment of their rights and privileges.  As long as any portion
or race or class of the people of the new south are deprived of the rights which the constitution
and law confer upon them, there will be unrest and danger.  All history teaches us that those
who suffer a wrong will sooner or later find means to correct and avenge it.

"There is another condition that the new south must find out.  The honorable gentleman who
preceded me (Senator Brown) has found it out already.  The system of production which was admirably
adapted to the old south will not answer for the new south.  Under the old institution of slavery
they raised a few leading crops, cotton, rice, sugar and tobacco--but not much else.  Why?
Because these articles could be raised by the labor of slaves.

"Now, in the new south, it is manifest that the chief sources of wealth and prosperity lie
in the development of their natural resources, in the production of coal and iron and other
minerals and phosphates, and in the manufacture of cotton and other textile fabrics, and in
the development of railroads and other means of communication.  In other words, they will find
it to their interest to adopt and compete with the north in all its industries and employments.
That this can be successfully done is shown in Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, North Carolina
and Virginia.  All the states touching on the Alleghany range have facilities for varied manufactures
fully equal to any of the northern states, and with some advantages as to climate and labor.
A diversity of production will be wealth to the south, break down its exclusion, open its doors
to immigration, and assimilate its institutions with those of the north.

"The north is ready for this competition.  Although the south will probably deprive us of some
of the markets we now have, yet no man in the north will complain; but, on the contrary, we
have in the north millions of dollars in capital to invest, and millions of hardy men to work
north or south, wherever they can get fair wages for a fair day's work.  When this competition
comes we will have a diversity of industry, and a country rich in developed as well as in undeveloped
resources.  This is the second great want of the new south which I trust their able men may
bring about; and Governor Brown is one of their leaders, and has seen that this is the road
not only for the improvement of his section, but for the betterment of his fortune.

"There is one other thing I wish to say in regard to the south. That is, that it must mainly
work out its own salvation.  That is one of the last things that we in the north have found
out.  We have striven in various ways to assist the south in managing their local affairs;
and I must confess that although I participated in that kind of business I am afraid it did
not turn out very well. The north cannot rule the south any more than England can rule Ireland,
or Europe can govern Greece and Turkey.  According to the principles of our government it is
not possible for us to keep soldiers enough down south to guard all their ballot boxes, and
indeed we need a good many up north to guard our own sometimes. At all events it is not consistent
with the principles of our government that we should undertake to rule in local affairs, and,
therefore, while we should give to those who are oppressed, in our own country as well as in
others, every kindly aid which the constitution and the law allow, yet, after all, the people
of the south must work out their own salvation.

"I am inclined to think that the blacks, having the labor and the muscle and industry on their
side, will not be far behind the white race in the future in the south.  It is now conceded
on all hands that, under our system of government, we cannot by external force manage or interfere
with the local affairs of a state or community, unless the authorities of the state call for
aid to resist domestic violence.  Wrongs inflicted upon citizens by mobs are beyond redress
by the general government.  The only remedy is migration and public opinion; but these, though
slow and very discouraging, will in time furnish a remedy and also a punishment.  Neither capital
nor labor, prosperity nor hope, will go or linger long where human rights and life are unsafe.
The instinctive love of justice and fair play will, in time, dissipate the prejudice of race
or caste and point the finger of scorn to the man who robs another of his rights, as it now
does to the man who cheats, or steals the property of his neighbor.  With the power of the
colored people to migrate, whenever they are unjustly treated, to a place where law and justice
prevail, with the capacity for labor and to acquire property, with reasonable opportunity for
education, they will in time make sure their rights as citizens.  I believe this is the growing
feeling in the new south.  I am willing to trust it, and I will be glad to aid it whenever
and wherever I can see the way.

"What the new south wants now more than all else is education! education!! education!!!  The
statistics with which we have been made familiar recently in the debate in the Senate, of illiteracy
in the south, are appalling, but not much more so than was the condition of the western states
fifty years ago.  The negroes being slaves were, of necessity, without education.  The great
mass of the white people were in the same condition, not because it was desired in the south,
but because, from the sparseness of the population and the existence of plantations instead
of farms, it was difficult to establish a system of public schools.  A change in this respect
cannot be brought about suddenly, but it is apparent that every southern state appreciates
the importance of education of both white and black.  It is the bounden duty of the national
government to extend the aid of its large resources.  If the action of the Senate is sanctioned
by the House, and fairly and justly executed by the people of the southern states, there need
be no danger from the ignorance of the next generation.  I believe that these conditions will
be the solution of the troubles of the south and make a great step on the road to prosperity
and union in the south.

"Now, but a few words in conclusion.  It is not merely common school education in the south
that is needed, but it is higher education. It is all the learning of the schools, all that
science has taught, all that religion teaches, all that medicine has found in its alchemy,
all the justice which the law points out and seeks to administer; the south wants opportunity
for that higher education which cannot be obtained from common schools, but which exists in
no country except where common schools abound.  It wants in its midst the places where the
active leading young men of the south can gather in colleges and universities and there gain
that higher education which prepares them to be leaders among men.

"I congratulate you, my countrymen, here in Washington, that, under the authority of the Methodist
Episcopal church, a Christian denomination, under the name of the illustrious hero General
Grant, there has been founded in the mountains of Tennessee, away up among the clouds and in
the pure air of Heaven, in the midst of a loyal and patriotic population, an institution of
learning which will be a blessing to all the people of the south, and I trust to all the people
of the north.  Every aid possible should be showered down from the north and south alike. 
Let them light their fires at this modern Athens upon the mountain top and they will shine
forth all over our land.  Here the young men of the south will fit themselves to lead in the
march of progress and improvement.  They will learn to vary their production, to develop their
resources, to advance every race and generation in education, intelligence and patriotism,
and with charity broad enough to secure all the people, of every race and tribe, the peaceful
and unquestioned enjoyment of their civil and political rights.  There is now no disturbing
question of a sectional character which should prevent the north and south from moving in harmonious
union.  The two streams have united, and though for a time their waters may be divided by the
color line, like the Mississippi and the Missouri at and after their junction, yet, in the
end they will mingle in a great republic, not of sections, but of friendly states and a united
people."

I attended a meeting of the members of the Ohio Society of New York, on the occasion of their
first annual dinner at Delmonico's, on the 7th of May.  It was a remarkable assemblage, composed
almost exclusively of men born in Ohio, then living in New York, all of whom had attained a
good standing there, and many were prominent in official or business life.  There were over
two hundred persons present.  Thomas Ewing was president of the society, and Mr. Payne and
myself sat on either side of him.  I insert the remarks of General Ewing and myself as reported
in the papers the next morning. Many speeches were made by others, including Senators Payne
and Harrison.  General Ewing, after the dinner had received ample attention, called the company
to order and made a brief address, which was repeatedly applauded.  He said:

"I hail and congratulate you, guests and members of the Ohio Society of New York, on our delightful
and auspicious reunion.  It is good that we are here.  This large assemblage of Ohio's sons,
coming from far and near, attests how strong and vital are the ties that bind us to our mother
state.  We have every reason to love and be proud of her.  If American citizenship be a patent
of nobility, it adds to the honor to have been born of that state which, almost in the forenoon
of the first century of her existence, has shed such luster on the republic; which has given
to it so long a roll of President, chief justices, judges of the Supreme Court and statesmen
in the cabinet and in Congress--among whom is found not one dishonored name, but many that
will shine illustrious in our country's annals forever; a state which, in the supreme struggle
by which the Union was established as indissoluble and the plague of human slavery destroyed,
gave to the republic even more than her enormous quota of noble troops, and with them those
great captains of the war: Grant, Sherman, Rosecrans, McPherson.

"Gentlemen, we have not formed our society from a desire to culture state pride in any spirit
of divided allegiance.  No, no!  There has been far too much of that in the past, and can't
be too little in the future.  We are first Americans--then Buckeyes.  The blessings and misfortunes
of our sister states are ours as well as theirs. The love of our own state and pride in her
history spring largely from the fact that she and her institutions, in birth and growth, are
purely American.  She is the oldest and, so far, the best developed of all the typically American
states.  Neither Roundhead nor Cavalier stood sponsor at her cradle.  She never wore the collar
of colonial subserviency.  Her churches and colleges are not endowed of King Charles or Queen
Anne.  Her lands are not held by grant or prescription under the Duke of York, Lord Fairfax
or Lord Baltimore, but by patents under the seal of the young republic and the hand of George
Washington, whose name will continue to be loved and honored throughout the world long after
the memory of the last king and peer of Great Britain shall have sunk in oblivion.

"The early generation of her sons were not reared amid distinctions of wealth and rank and
class, but in the primeval forest and prairie, where all stood equal and had no aid to eminence
but strenuous efforts; where recollections of the sufferings and sacrifices of Revolutionary
sires became inspirations of patriotism in their sons; and where nature threw around all her
pure, loving and benignant influences to make them strong and great.

"Gentlemen, I now have the pleasure to present to you a typical Buckeye--the architect of his
own fame and fortune--who stands below only one man in the republic in official station, and
below none in the respect of his countrymen--John Sherman."

As General Ewing closed, there was a tumultuous scene.  There were repeated cheers, and Colonel
W. L. Strong called for three cheers in my honor, which were given.  When I could be heard,
I spoke as follows:

"Mr. President, Brethren All:--I give you my grateful thanks for this greeting.  If you receive
every Buckeye from Ohio in this manner, you will have the hordes of Ararat here among you.
Such a reception as this, I think, would bring every boy from every farm in the State of Ohio,
and what would become of New York then?  You have gathered the sons of Ohio, and those who
have been identified with its history, into a society where you may meet together and preserve
and revive the recollections of Ohio boyhood and Ohio manhood.  Why should you not do that?
Why should you not have an Ohio society as well as a New England society, or any other kind
of society?  Our friends and fellow-citizens from old England's shore, from Ireland and Scotland
and Germany, form their societies of the city of New York; and why should not the State of
Ohio, more important than any of these countries by this represented?

"Now, gentlemen, there is one characteristic of Ohio people which has marked them from the
beginning of their history, and marks them now.  We are a migratory race.  We are the Innocents
Abroad.  No Arab in his tent, restless and uneasy, feels more uncertain and movable than a
man from Ohio, who can better his condition anywhere else.  We are a migratory race, and why
should we not be?  Do we not deserve the best of every land?  When we go to any other country,
we don't go to rob them of anything, but to add to their wealth. If I want to prove that Ohio
people are migratory, what better evidence can I have than is afforded by the men who are here
around me?  Here is my friend, General Ewing, born in one of the garden spots of Ohio, under
circumstances when it would be supposed that he ought to be content with his lot; but he goes
walking off to Kansas, and then to the war, and then into Washington, and finally settles down
near New York here, under the shadow of the Sage of Greystone!  Among others here around me
I see a grandson of old William Henry Harrison.  I see here innumerable representatives of
the Puritan fathers, with all the virtues of the old fathers and some besides.  I see here
representatives not only of Virginia and New England, but of New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania--all
from Ohio.

"My countrymen, in the early days Ohio was the camping ground of all the old states.  Ohio
is the first fruit of the Federal Union. It is true that Vermont and Kentucky and Tennessee
were admitted into the union of these states before Ohio was, but they were offshoots of New
York and Virginia, while Ohio was the first fruit of that great commonwealth.  Every state
of the old states had a camping ground in the State of Ohio, either by reservation, by purchase
or by settlement.  Nearly all of the early descendants of Ohio were sons of Revolutionary fathers
who came out to Ohio.  They went there to redeem that land from a wilderness, and they made
of Ohio the most prosperous, the richest and fairest commonwealth the world has ever known.
In Ohio was the beginning of that magnificent march of progress which adds luster to the history
of the northwest, as an evidence of growth and progress unexampled in the previous history
of mankind.  Think of it, my countrymen!  Within one hundred years, more than 30,000,000 people
have grown up in a country once people alone by Indian tribes, and that 30,000,000 of people
are among the most prosperous and powerful peoples of the whole world.

"I want to defend our Ohio people against another charge that is very often made against them,
especially in this city of New York. They charge us with being fond of office.  Why, my countrymen,
I can show by statistics--and statistics never lie--that Ohio never had her fair share of the
public offices.  I have not brought any of the statistics with me, for fear some know-nothing
might cry at our after-dinner speech 'Figures.'  Still we never had our share of the public
offices, or if we had we always filled them well, and performed our duties honorably.

"Now, gentlemen, only one or two other thoughts, and then I will leave you.  In the early times,
migration was always to the westward. Nobody thought of coming east.  Therefore it is that
out of the eight sons of Ohio who are now Members of the United States Senate, all moved westward;
and out of some thirty or forty or fifty Members of the House of Representatives who were born
in Ohio, and who didn't stay in Ohio--and they are only a small part of them--all went westward.
The reason was that 'Westward the star of empire wends its way.'  But latterly the star of
empire seems to have settled about this city of New York, until more than 200 Ohio men can
sit down to an Ohio feast in the city of New York.  There is another reason--there is more
money in New York than anywhere else in the country.  Not that our people have a fondness for
money, but they have come here to better their condition--and I hope in God they will.  They
not only better their own condition, but the condition of all around them, and I can pick out
from all over this community, and from this little dinner party, men who came from Ohio poor,
but with an honest endeavor to do what was best for themselves and their families, and here
they are, rich and happy.

"One word more, worthy fellow-citizens.  We love Ohio.  We love Ohio as our mother who nurtured
us and fed us in our in our infancy; and, under any circumstances, although we may hear ill
of Ohio, we never fail to remember all that is good that can be said of Ohio, and to be true
and honorable for the love of Ohio.  But we love our country more, and no man from Ohio would
ever be true to his mother unless he were more true to his country all around, from one end
of the land to the other.  Our country forever from the Atlantic to the Pacific; from the Gulf
of Mexico to the Canada line, and away around this continent in due time, when the pear will
ripen and fall in this Federal Union; in the whole round of the country!

"I congratulate you upon this happy meeting, upon this successful feast, and I trust you may
go on prospering and to prosper, until you will gather all the men of Ohio who are deserving
of their nativity into the fold of this social union, not only that you may meet each other
again as kinsmen born of the same soil, but that you may aid and assist each other, as other
kindred societies have done, and I trust that the Ohio society, though the junior members at
the table of these societies of New York, may yet be the foremost and leading members in charity
and good works to the sons of Adam."

After the adjournment of Congress I returned home.  I was not fatigued by the labors of the
session, as the duties of presiding officer were lighter than those of an active Member on
the floor. The usual canvass had already commenced for state officers and Members of Congress.
A club called the "Sherman club" had been organized at Mansfield, and soon after my return
having been invited to attend it, I did so, and made a brief political address.  During this
month I was visited by many interviewers, and while sometimes their calls were inopportune,
yet I uniformly received them, answered their questions, and furnished them any information
in my power. I knew that they were seeking information not for their own convenience, but to
gratify a public interest, and, therefore, I was entirely willing to answer such questions
as were put to me. The case was very rare where I was misrepresented, and then it was either
unintentional or to brighten a story or to exaggerate a fact.  I recall one interview in respect
to courts of arbitration and the universal labor question.  My opinions were expressed offhand,
and, although not taken down at the time by the interviewer, my words uttered during a half
hour's interview were quoted with great exactness.  I know this is not the common opinion in
respect to the interviewer, and in some cases gross misrepresentations are made, but in the
very few instances where this has occurred in my experience I have always carefully remembered
the reporters who made them and declined any further interview with them.

The latter part of August, Judge Thurman and I were invited to make brief addresses at the
state fair in Columbus.  After he had spoken with his usual ability and directness, I made
a speech mainly about new devices in agricultural implements.  I said:

"From the fact that Judge Thurman and I have been invited to address you I infer that you did
not expect us to tell you what we knew about farming.  He has been recognized as a standard
authority as to the law--not only as to what it is but as to what it ought to be--but I never
heard that he was eminent as a farmer, either of the theoretical sort who know how things ought
to grow, or of the practical sort who know how to make them grow.  I have had more experience
as a farmer than he has had, but somehow my crops always cost me more than I could get for
them.  If the many millions of farmers in the United States have had my experience in farming
they would have to get more than seventy-five cents a bushel for wheat to make the two ends
meet.  Still, Judge Thurman and I have learned enough to know that farming is the chosen employment
of a large proportion of the human race, and is, besides, the chosen recreation of nearly all
who have been successful in other pursuits.  Every lawyer especially, from Cicero to Webster,
has delighted in the healthful pleasure of rural pursuits--and if they have not made their
money by farming they have spent their money in farming--and have enriched the language of
every age and clime with eloquent and beautiful tributes to this noblest occupation of man.

"Perhaps this is the reason you call upon lawyers to speak on occasions like this, when the
varied products of the farm, in their rich profusion and excellence, are spread before us.
Besides, it is the common opinion that lawyers can talk as well about things they don't know
as things they do know--and on either side of the question, without respect to the merits or
morals of the topic. Your worthy secretary, in inviting me to speak for a few minutes on this
occasion, said that I was quite at liberty to choose the subject of my remarks.  So I have
chosen as a text a discovery I have made very much like that of Benjamin Franklin, who advised
the people of Paris that he had made a great discovery--that being wakeful one morning he discovered
that the sun rose at Paris at five o'clock, and that if they would rise with the sun and go
to bed with the sun they would save an enormous sum--millions of francs --in the cost of candles
and lamps, and greatly improve their health and morals.  So I have discovered that our farmers
have become machinists, and, instead of working themselves, they make the horses, mules, and
especially the machines, do nearly all the work of the farm.

"I have observed in the numerous fairs I have attended since they were first introduced in
Ohio, and especially since the war, a marked change in the articles exhibited.  Formerly the
chief attraction was the varied exhibition of fruits, grain, cattle, horses, sheep, hogs, poultry--all
the productions of the farm--and the chief benefit then derived from our state and county fairs
was to excite competition in the size, excellence and abundance of these purely animal or agricultural
productions.  Formerly the tools and implements of husbandry were few, simple and plain, the
chief of which were the plow, the scythe, the cradle, the sickle.

"Later by degrees there appeared new devices--new implements of husbandry--the mower, the reaper,
the thresher, the binder, the sulky plow, an infinite variety of mechanical contrivances to
make the labor of the farmer easier, or rather to dispense with a multitude of laborers, and
substitute in their places the horse, the mule and the steam engine.  In other words, to convert
the business of farming from an agricultural pursuit, where the labor of men and women was
the chief factor of production, to a mechanical pursuit, in which the chief element of cost
and power were machines, the invention of a single generation.

"This striking change in an employment, which in all ages has been pursued by a greater number
of human beings than any other, is shown in every fair now held in the United States, and especially
in this."

I spoke of the changed condition of the farmer since Ohio was a new state, covered by a great
forest, when the home was a cabin, and about the only implements were the plow and the axe,
and then said:

"After what has been said by others, and especially so eloquently said by Judge Thurman, I
need not express the high value I place upon the magnificent work of the state board of agriculture
in preparing these grounds as a permanent place for the exhibition of the industrial products
of Ohio, not only of the farm but of the workshop.  It is this day dedicated by appropriate
ceremonies for the use of the present and future generations of Buckeyes, and, I hope, as time
rolls on, there may be here exhibited, not only stock and grains and vegetables, not only ingenious
machinery and inventions, but men, high-minded men and noble women, and that with the many
advantages in education and culture secured to them by their ancestors they will maintain and
advance with manly vigor and sturdy virtue the work of the generations before them, who have
planted and founded here in Ohio a model republic."

I attended the thirteenth Industrial exposition at Music Hall, Cincinnati, on the 2nd of September,
where fully six thousand people were gathered,  I entered the building with Governor Foraker,
and we were received with rounds of applause and made brief remarks, the substance of which
was reported, but I can only remember the magnitude of the audience and the difficulty of being
heard.  The city was crowded with men, women and children, all in holiday dress, and everybody
in good humor at the success of the exposition. During September, and until the day of the
election, I was engaged in making speeches.  The one at Portsmouth, on the 28th of September,
was carefully prepared and reported, and contained the substance of what I said in that canvass.
It was a review of the political questions of the day.  I always feel more at home in that
part of Ohio then in any other.  The river counties are associated with my early recollections
and the people are uniformly generous and kind. With rare exceptions they have heartily supported
me during my entire political life.

I attended a meeting conducted by the Blaine club in Cincinnati. The procession that marched
through the streets was an immense one, and seemed to include all the men and boys in the city.
The clubhouse, brilliantly illuminated, was surrounded by a great crowd, too large to hear
the speeches, nor did it matter, for their enthusiasm and cheers showed that they needed no
exhortation.

I attended a reception of the Sherman club of the 24th ward, at the head of which was my old
friend, Governor Thomas L. Young.  I there made a strong appeal for the election of Benjamin
Butterworth and Charles Brown to Congress, the former being one of the ablest and most promising
men in congressional life, and the latter a gallant soldier, who had lost a leg in the service
of his country. I said:

"Their election is more important than anything else.  The election of a Republican House of
Representatives is of vital importance, because if we can have not only a Republican Senate,
but a Republican House of Representatives, we will tie up Cleveland and his administration
so that he and it can do no harm to anybody.  If we can get a good Republican House of Representatives
we will be able to maintain the system of protection of American labor, which is the pride
and glory of the Republican party.  We will maintain all these great measures of Republican
policy which tend to develop our country, to increase its happiness, diversify its pursuits,
and build up its industries; to give you a good currency; to protect your labor; and generally
to promote the common good and welfare of our common country."

At the invitation of the Republicans of Louisville, Ky., I went to that city.  In the afternoon
I made a short address at the laying of the corner stone of the new customhouse, and in the
evening made a long political speech.  It was my first visit there, and I was much gratified
as well as surprised, at the great numbers which attended a Republican meeting and the enthusiasm
with which I was greeted.  I referred to the long and intimate association of Ohio and Kentucky
since the days of the Indian wars, when Kentucky sent her best and bravest men to fight the
battles of Ohio, under Harrison and Taylor at Fort Meigs and Sandusky.  In a later time, when
Henry Clay was their favorite, Ohio steadily and heartily supported him, and now that the war
was over, there was no reason why Kentucky and Ohio might not stand side by side in maintaining
the principles of the Republican party.  I said:

"You might naturally inquire why I came to the city of Louisville to make a Republican speech,
when I knew that the majority of your population belong to a different school of politics,
and that I could scarcely hope to make any impression upon the Democratic vote of the city
of Louisville or the State of Kentucky.  Still, I have always thought it strange that your
people, who through many long years followed the fortunes and believed in the doctrines of
Henry Clay, should willingly belong to a party opposed to all his ideas, and I was curious
to learn why the same great events that led the people of Ohio into the ranks of the Republican
party should lead the people of Kentucky into the ranks of the Democratic party.  It is to
make this discovery that I come here to-night, and I will speak to you, not for the purpose
of reviving past controversies, but to see whether, after all, the people of Ohio and Kentucky
ought not now to stand side by side in their political action, as they did in the days of old.

"When approaching manhood I, in common with the people of Ohio, was in ardent sympathy with
the political opinions of the people of Kentucky.  I was reared in a school which regarded
Henry Clay, John J. Crittenden, Thomas Ewing and Thomas Corwin as the brightest lights in the
political firmament, chief of whom was Henry Clay. I need not remind a Kentucky audience with
what pride and love your people followed him in his great career, and with rare intermissions
supported and sustained him to the close of his life.  And so, too, with John J. Crittenden,
who represented the people of Kentucky in both Houses of Congress, in the cabinet of two administrations,
and, to the close of his eventful life in the midst of the Civil war, retained the confidence
and support of the people of Kentucky. It may be said, also, that Thomas Ewing and Thomas Corwin,
the warm and lifelong friends of Clay and Crittenden, represented the people of Ohio in the
highest official positions, and that these great men, united in counsel, in political opinions
and in ardent friendship, were the common standards of political faith to the people of these
neighboring states.

"I had the honor to cast my first vote for Henry Clay for President of the United States, and
supported him with all the natural enthusiasm of youth, and remember yet my sorrow when it
was at last known that he was defeated.  I also knew Mr. Crittenden from 1846, when, as a young
lawyer, I visited Washington, and saw much of him in the later years of his life.  I also held
close personal relations with Mr. Ewing and Mr. Corwin since my early boyhood, and shared,
as much as youth can share, the benefits of their council and confidence.  I am justified in
saying that during the memorable period of thirty years of political conflict through which
we have passed, I have steadily adhered to the lessons they have taught, by supporting the
measures adopted from time to time by the Republican party, while the majority of the people
of Kentucky, with equal sincerity, no doubt, pursuing their convictions, have landed in the
Democratic party.  What I would like to find out is whether it is you or I who have switched
off from the councils of our political fathers, and whether the causes of the difference of
opinion still exist."

I closed as follows:

"I freely confess that the great mass of the Democratic party are patriotic, law-abiding citizens,
yet I believe the elements that control that party, especially in the northern states, are
unworthy of the confidence and trust of a brave and free people, and that the Republican party,
although it may not always have met the hopes and expectations of its friends, does contain
within it the elements of order, safety, obedience to law and respect for the rights of others,
with well-grounded principles of public policy, and can fairly be trusted again to manage our
national affairs.

"My heartiest sympathies go with the gallant Republicans of Kentucky, who, in an unequal fight,
have shown the courage of their race and the patriotism of their ancestors.  Let them persevere
in appealing to their neighbors for co-operation, and they can fairly hope that, as the passions
of the war pass away, Kentucky will be, as of old, on the side of the Union, the constitution
and the impartial enforcement of the laws.

"Is not this a good time to try the experiment of a Republican representative from the Louisville
district?  Our Democratic friends seem to be in a bad way about the choice of a candidate.
If what the opposing factions say of their candidates is half true, you had better take shelter
under a genuine and fearless Republican like Mr. Wilson, who will be impartial to the factions
and true to the great interests of American labor and American production. Such a light shining
from Louisville will be a star of hope, a beacon light of safety and prosperity to the extreme
bounds of our country.  Why not try the experiment?  I hope that my visit among you will be
a message of good will, and I thank you with all my heart for your kindly reception."

The "Courier Journal" was much more fair to me on this occasion than the Democratic papers
in Ohio.  In consequence of this I have always entertained a kindly feeling for its editor,
Henry Watterson, who, notwithstanding his strong political opinions, is always bold, frank
and courteous in his criticisms.

On my return from Kentucky I spoke to a large meeting at Wilmington, Ohio, on the 7th of October.
I had frequently addressed meetings at that place and always received a very cordial and hearty
welcome. It so happened that John Q. Smith, one of the leading citizens of Clinton county,
who had been a Member of Congress, had changed his political relations and become a warm supporter
of the administration of Cleveland.  He had prepared a large number of questions, to be put
to me, which were printed and scattered broadcast in handbill form.  I was glad of the opportunity
to answer his questions, as they gave me a text for a general review of a Democratic administration.
I said that the handbill was issued by a gentleman whom I esteemed very highly, and for whom
I had the greatest good will and friendship, one of their own citizens, who had served in the
legislature and in Congress with credit, and had been a representative of our government abroad.
I then read the questions one by one and answered them, and, as I think, clearly showed to
the satisfaction of my hearers, that, although Mr. Smith was generally sound on other matters,
he was a little cracked on the question of American protection.  My answers were received with
great applause by the audience, and I think my old friend made nothing by his questions.

After making a number of other speeches in Ohio, I spoke in Grand Rapids on the 18th of October;
in Indianapolis on the 21st; at Fort Wayne on the 24th, and at the Academy of Music, Philadelphia,
on the 27th.  I closed my speaking in this campaign at Toledo on the 30th.  The time of the
fall elections had been changed to the first Tuesday after the first Monday of November.  During
the period from my return home after the adjournment of Congress until the day of election,
I spoke almost daily.  The election resulted in a victory for the Republican party, the head
of the ticket, James S. Robinson, Secretary of State, receiving about 11,000 majority.

The second session of the 49th Congress passed but little important legislation except the
appropriation bills.  The two Houses were so widely divergent that they could not agree upon
measures of political importance.

On the 9th of December I made an impromptu speech on the revision of the tariff, in reply to
Senator Beck, but as no action was taken upon the subject at that session, it is useless to
quote what I said.  Mr. Beck was a man of great mental as well as physical power. A Scotchman
by birth, he came at an early age to the United States and settled in Kentucky, where he practiced
law, and in due time became a Member of Congress, and afterwards a Senator of the United States.
He was aggressive, affirmative and dogmatic, and seemed to take special delight in opposing
me on all financial questions. He and I were members of the committee on finance, and had many
verbal contests, but always with good humor.  On the 9th of December, as I entered the Senate
Chamber after a temporary absence, I heard the familiar voice of Beck begging, in the name
of the Democratic party, a chance to reduce taxation.  I promptly replied to him, and the colloquy
between us extended to considerable length.  He was, in fact, a free trader, believed in the
policy in force in Great Britain, and opposed every form of protection to American industries.
Our debate brought out the salient arguments on both sides, though no measure on the subject-matter
was pending before the Senate.

During the holiday recess Senator John A. Logan died at his residence, Calumet Place, in Washington.
This was announced, in the Senate, by his colleague, Shelby M. Cullom, on January 4, 1887,
as follows:

"'The angel of death has been abroad throughout the land.'  His visitation has been most unexpected
during the recent brief recess of the Senate, and has imposed upon me a duty which I have scarcely
the heart to perform--the duty of announcing the death of my late distinguished colleague.
At his home, which overlooks this capital city, at three minutes before three o'clock on Sunday
afternoon, the 26th of December, the spirit of John A. Logan took its flight into the unknown
realms of eternity.  On Friday last, the funeral ceremonies were conducted, by the Senators
and Representatives present, in this Senate Chamber, and his mortal remains were conveyed to
the silent tomb.

"We are called upon to mourn the loss of one of the bravest and noblest of men--a man loved
by the patriotic people of his state and of the nation, known to his country and to the civilized
world as great in war and in peace, and for nearly fourteen years a distinguished Member of
this Senate."

Logan is buried in the cemetery of the Soldiers' Home in Washington, in a conspicuous and beautiful
marble tomb erected to his memory by his widow.  On the 9th of February the business of the
Senate was suspended, and many Senators, the associates of the deceased, paid fitting and eloquent
tribute to his public and private virtues in addresses of marked ability and interest.

He was a striking character, bold, fearless and aggressive, but sensitive as a child.  I knew
him well when he was a Member of the House before the war.  He was a devoted friend and admirer
of Douglas, and, like him, when the war commenced, threw his whole soul into the Union cause.
He was a good soldier, and, of those who entered the army from civil life, was among the most
distinguished. He was a model of the volunteer soldiery.  After the war was over he was returned
to Congress and served in the House and Senate until his death.  He was a positive man; there
were no negative qualities about him.  Thoroughly honest in his convictions he was regarded
as a strong debater, though somewhat too urgent in presenting his opinions, and disposed to
take a personal view of controverted questions.  I had great respect for Logan, and never had
any controversies with him except upon financial questions, upon which I thought he took at
one time erroneous views.  For a long time he adopted the ideas prevailing in the west in regard
to paper money. Upon further reflection he became satisfied that the policy of resumption was
the right one and adhered to it.  He was a member of the committee that framed the resumption
act, and from the time that measure was agreed upon, he, so far as I know, supported it firmly
and warmly.  He was a good party man; he stood by the judgment of his political friends.  I
never saw the slightest hesitation or doubt on his part in supporting a measure which was agreed
upon by his political associates.  One interesting feature of Logan's life was the interest
felt by his wife in his public career, and her helpfulness to him.  She was the model of a
helpmate.  She is in every way a good woman.  She has the very qualities that he lacked, and
I might illustrate by many instances her great aid to him in his political purposes.

I had accepted an invitation of the merchants of Boston to attend the annual banquet of the
Mercantile Association on the 29th of December, but was compelled to withdraw my acceptance,
so that, as president of the Senate, I could perform certain duties in respect to Logan's funeral
that I could not delegate to others, and which were requested of me by the committee on arrangements,
through a notice sent me by Senator Cullom, the chairman, as follows, and upon which I acted:

"The committee on arrangements at the funeral ceremonies of John A. Logan, late a Senator of
the United States from the State of Illinois, respectfully request the Honorable John Sherman,
a Senator of the United States from the State of Ohio, to preside at the funeral exercises
on Friday, December 31, 1886."

In the Boston invitation it was intimated that some remarks on the national banking system
would be acceptable.  In declining I wrote a letter expressing my opinion of that system, which
I said had realized all the good that had ever been claimed for it by its authors, that it
had furnished the best paper money ever issued by banking corporations, that the system was
adopted only after the fullest consideration and had won its way into public favor by slow
process, and that I regarded it as the best that had ever been created by law.  The remarkable
success of this system, I said, was not appreciated by those not familiar with the old state
banks. It had been adopted by many countries, especially in the far off island of Japan.

The bill to regulate interstate commerce became a law on the 4th of February, 1887.  It had
passed both Houses at the previous session, but, the Senate having disagreed to amendments
of the House, the bill and amendments were sent to a committee of conference. The report of
this committee was fully debated.  I had taken great interest in this bill, but had not participated
in the debate until the 14th of January, when I supported the conference report, while not
agreeing to some of the amendments made.  Senator Cullom is entitled to the chief credit for
its passage.

On the 22nd of February I laid before the Senate the following communication, which was read:

"To the Senate of the United States.

"Senators:--My office as president pro tempore of the Senate will necessarily terminate on
the 4th of March next, with my present term as Senator.  It will promote the convenience of
the Senate and the public service to elect a Senator as president pro tempore whose term extends
beyond that date, so that he may administer the oath of office to Senators-elect and aid in
the organization.  I, therefore, respectfully resign that position, to take effect at one o'clock
p. m., on Saturday next, February 26.

"Permit me, in doing so, to express my heartfelt thanks for the uniform courtesy and forbearance
shown me, while in discharge of my duties as presiding officer, by every Member of the Senate.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman."

I said that if there was no objection the communication would be entered in the journal and
placed among the files of the Senate. On the 25th John J. Ingalls was elected president pro
tempore, to take effect the next day.  On that day I said:

"Before administering the oath of office to his successor the occupant of the chair desires
again to return to his fellow Senators his grateful acknowledgments for their kind courtesy
and forbearance in the past.

"It is not a difficult duty to preside over the Senate of the United States.  From the establishment
of our government to this time the Senate has always been noted for its order, decorum, and
dignity. We have but few rules, and they are simple and plain; but we have, above all and higher
than all, that which pervades all our proceedings --the courtesy of the Senate, which enables
us to dispose of nearly all of the business of the Senate without question or without division.
I trust that in the future, as in the past, this trait of the Senate of the United States will
be preserved intact, and I invoke for my successor the same courtesy and forbearance you have
extended to me.  I now invite him to come forward and take the oath of office prescribed by law."

Mr. Ingalls advanced to the desk of the president pro tempore, and, the oath prescribed by
law having been administered to him, he took the chair, and said:

"Senators, I must inevitably suffer disparagement in your estimation, by contrast with the
parliamentary learning and skill, the urbanity and accomplishments of my illustrious predecessor,
but I shall strive to equal him in devotion to your service, and I shall endeavor, if that
be possible, to excel him in grateful appreciation of the distinguished honor of your suffrages."

Mr. Harris offered the following resolution, which was unanimously adopted;

"Resolved, That the thanks of the Senate are hereby tendered to Hon. John Sherman, for the
able and impartial manner in which he has administered the duties of the office of president
pro tempore during the present Congress."

At the close of the session of Congress, early in March, a congenial party was formed to visit
Florida and Havana.  It was composed of Senator Charles F. Manderson, wife and niece, Senator
T. W. Palmer and niece, General Anson G. McCook and wife, and myself and daughter. We were
accompanied by E. J. Babcock, my secretary, and A. J. Galloway and son, in the employ of the
Coast Line road, over which we were to pass.  We stopped at Charleston, where the ravages of
a recent earthquake were everywhere visible.  Fort Sumter, which we visited, was a picture
of desolation.  Such a large party naturally attracted attention.  At Jacksonville we encountered
our first reporter.  He showed me an article in which it was stated that we were on a political
trip.  This I disclaimed and said we had not heard politics mentioned since we left Washington,
that we were tired out after Congress completed its work and made up a party and started off
merely for rest and recreation.  I remarked that I had been in every state in the Union but
one, and wanted to finish up the list by seeing Florida.  A colloquy as given by the reporter
was as follows:

"Well, Senator, my errand was for the purpose of getting your opinion on matters political."

"I am out of politics just now.  I want to rest and I do not want politics to enter my head
for two weeks."

"Then you say positively that you are not down here to look after your fences for a presidential
boom in 1888?"

"Most decidedly not.  I will not say a word about politics until I reach Nashville on my return.
There I take up the political string again and will hold to it for some time."

Manderson proposed a walk through the city, the reporter being our guide.  Orange trees were
to be seen on every side.  We were surprised to find so large and prosperous a city in Florida,
with so many substantial business houses and residences.  The weather was delightful, neither
too hot nor too cold, and in striking contrast with the cold and damp March air of Washington.
From Jacksonville we went in a steamboat up the St. John's River to Enterprise. Florida was
the part of the United States to be first touched by the feet of white men, and yet it seemed
to me to be the most backward in the march of progress.  It was interesting chiefly from its
weird and valueless swamps, its sandy reaches and its alligators. It is a peninsula, dividing
the Gulf of Mexico from the ocean, and a large part of it is almost unexplored.  The part we
traversed was low, swampy, with dense thickets, and apparently incapable of reclamation by
drainage.  The soil was sandy and poor and the impression left on my mind was that it could
not be made very productive.  There were occasional spots where the earth was far enough above
the sea to insure the growth of orange trees, but even then the soil was thin, and to an Ohio
farmer would appear only to be a worthless sand bank.  This, however, does not apply to all
points in Florida, especially not to the Indian River region, where fine oranges and other
semitropical fruits are raised in great abundance.  The Indian River is a beautiful body of
water, really an arm of the sea, on the eastern coast of Florida, separated from the Atlantic
by a narrow strip of land.  The water is salt and abounds in game and fish.

At Sanford our party was joined by Senator Aldrich and his wife, and we proceeded by way of
Tampa and Key West to Havana, where we arrived on the 17th of March.  The short sail of ninety
miles from Key West transported us to a country of perpetual summers, as different from the
United States as is old Egypt.  After being comfortably installed in a hotel we were visited
by Mr. Williams, our consul general, who brought us an invitation from Captain General Callejas
to call upon him.  We did so, Mr. Williams accompanying us as interpreter.  We were very courteously
received and hospitably entertained.  The captain general introduced us to his family and invited
us to a reception in the evening, at which dancing was indulged in by the younger members of
the party.  We spent four very pleasant days in the old city, visiting several of the large
cigar factories, a sugar plantation in the neighborhood and other scenes strange to our northern
eyes.  The ladies supplied themselves with fans gaily decorated with pictures of bull fights,
and the men with Panama hats, these being products peculiar to the island.

Among the gentlemen of the party, as already stated, was Frank G. Carpenter, a bright young
man born at Mansfield, Ohio, who has since made an enviable reputation as a copious and interesting
letter writer for the press.  His description of Havana is so true that I insert a few paragraphs
of it here:

"Havana has about 300,000 inhabitants.  It was a city when New York was still a village, and
it is now 100 years behind any American town of its size.  It is Spanish and tropical.  The
houses are low stucco buildings put together in block, and resting close up to narrow sidewalks.
Most of them are of one or two stories, and their roofs are of red tile which look like red
clay drain pipes cut in two and so laid that they overlap each other.  The residences are usually
built around a narrow court, and their floors are of marble, tile or stone.  This court often
contains plants and flowers, and it forms the loafing place of the family in the cool of the
evening.

"These streets of Havana are so narrow that in some of them the carriages are compelled to
go in one direction only.  When they return they must go back by another street.  The sidewalks
are not over three feet wide, and it is not possible for two persons to walk abreast upon them.
The better class of Cubans seldom walk, and the cabbys are freely called upon.  The cab of
Havana is a low Victoria holding two or three persons.  Their tops come down so as to shade
the eyes, and they have springs which keep every molecule of your body in motion while you
ride in them.  The horses use are hardy mongrel little ponylike animals, who look as though
they were seldom fed and never cleaned.

"The traffic of Havana is largely done by oxen, and the two-wheeled cart is used exclusively.
This cart is roughly made and it has a tongue as thick as a railroad tie, nailed to the body
of the cart, and which extends to the heads of the oxen and is there fastened by a great yoke
directly to the horns.  The Cuban ox pulls by his head and not his shoulders.  This yoke is
strapped by ropes across the foreheads of the oxen, and they move along with their heads down,
pushing great loads with their foreheads.  They are guided by rope reins fastened to a ring
in the nose of the ox.  Some of the carts are for a single ox, and these have shafts of about
the same railroad tie thickness, which are fastened to a yoke which is put over the horns in
the same manner.  Everything is of the rudest construction and the Egyptians of to-day are
as well off in this regard.

"Prices of everything here seem to me to be very high, and the money of the country is dirty,
nasty paper, which is always below par, and of which you get twelve dollars for five American
ones. A Cuban dollar is worth about forty American cents, and this Cuban scrip is ground out
as fast as the presses can print it.  The lower denominations are five, ten, twenty and fifty
cent pieces, and you get your boots blacked for ten Spanish cents.  Even the gold of Cuba is
below par, about six per cent. below the American greenback, and most of it and the silver
in use has been punched or chipped to make money off of the pieces thus cut out.  The country
is deeply in debt, and the taxes are very heavy."

On the return voyage a strong northwest wind sprang up, and most of the party, especially the
ladies, experienced the disagreeable effects of being on a small steamer in a rough sea.  They
had, however, all recovered by the time we reached Tampa, and as soon as we landed we started
for Jacksonville.

In an interview shortly after my return from Cuba, I thus gave the impression made upon my
mind as to its condition:

"And how did you enjoy your visit to Cuba?"

"We spent four days in Havana.  Nobody could be treated with greater courtesy.  You know Spanish
courtesy is never surpassed anywhere. But that cannot prevent me from saying that Cuba is in
a deplorable condition.  I should judge from what I heard from intelligent Cuban Americans
living there, and even Spaniards themselves, that the island is in a condition of ill-suppressed
revolt.  Natives are nearly to a man in favor of annexation to us.  I think they have given
over the idea of independence, for they begin to recognize that they are incapable of self-government.
Their condition is indeed pitiable.  No serfs in Russia were ever greater slaves than the Cubans
are to Spain.  The revenue they must raise yearly for Spain, and for which they get no benefit
whatever, except the name of a national protection and the aegis of a flag, is $16,000,000.
They have no self-government of any kind.  From captain general down to the tide-waiter at
the docks, the official positions are held by Spaniards.  I venture to say that not a single
native Cuban holds an office or receives public emolument.  In addition to the $16,000,000
sent annually to Spain, Cuba has to pay the salaries of all the Spanish horde fastened upon her."

"Do you think the native planters, the wealthier classes, that is, favor annexation to the
United States?"

"Yes, I am told all of them are anxious for it, but I don't think we want Cuba as an appendage
to the United States.  I would not favor annexation.  In spite of the drains upon her, Cuba
is enormously rich in resources, and is a large consumer of our products, on which at present
the heavy Spanish duties rest.  What I would favor would be a reciprocity treaty with Spain,
as to Cuba, so that we might send our goods there instead of forcing the Cubans to buy of England,
France and Germany.  We could do the island much more good by trading with her on an equal
basis than we ever can by annexing her.  Cuba, to some extent, is under our eye, we would probably
never let any other nation than Spain own the island, but so long as Spain does own it she
is welcome to it if she will only let us sell our goods on equal or better terms than the Cubans
can get them for elsewhere."

I had some time previously accepted an invitation of the members of the Tennessee legislature
to address them, and, therefore, at Jacksonville left the remainder of the party to pursue
their way to Washington at their leisure, while I started for Nashville, accompanied by Mr.
Babcock and Mr. Mussey.  Having a few days to spare before my appointment at that place, and
having heard much of the wonderful progress and development of the iron industry at Birmingham,
Alabama, I determined to stop at that place.  On our arrival we went to the Hotel Florence,
and at once met the "ubiquitous reporter."  My arrival was announced in the papers, and I was
soon called upon by many citizens, who proposed that an informal reception be held in the dining
room of the hotel that evening, to which I had no objection.  Among those present were ex-Senator
Willard Warner, and a number of the leading men who had so quickly transformed an open farm
into the active and progressive city of Birmingham. The reception was held and was a very pleasant
affair.  Being called upon for a speech I made a few remarks, which were well received, and
as the gentlemen present expressed a desire to have a larger meeting I consented to speak on
the following evening at the opera house.

That afternoon, when my room was thronged with callers, most of whom were Democrats, I was
handed the following note:

  "Birmingham, Ala., March 20, 1887.
"Hon. John Sherman, U. S. Senator.

"Dear Sir:--The undersigned, citizens of Birmingham, Alabama, take this method of writing you
to extend your visit from Nashville, Tennessee, to our growing city, and bear witness to its
development and progress in the prospective mining, manufacturing and business metropolis of
the state.  Feeling confident that you are naturally interested in our welfare and happiness,
American citizens in every capacity and relation in life, we earnestly trust that you will
comply with our solicitation.

  "Yours respectfully,
  "Sam'l R. Lowery, Editor 'Southern Freemen.'
  "A. L. Scott, Real Estate Agent.
  "W. R. Pettiford, J. M. Goodloe, A. J. Headon, A. D. Jemison and
R. Donald, Pastors of Colored Churches in Birmingham, Ala."

The letter was written to be sent me at Nashville, when it was not known that I was at Birmingham,
and was indorsed as follows;

"Hon. John Sherman, U. S. Senator.

"Dear Sir:--A colored delegation, as given above, desires to call upon you to-morrow morning
at 10 o'clock or at 3.  Please do us the kindness to say if we may see you, and when.

  "Yours faithfully,
  "A. L. Scott."

I at once sent word to the delegation that I would see them in my room the next morning at
10 o'clock, having already arranged to accompany some gentlemen on an excursion among the mines
and other evidences of Birmingham's boom at 11 a. m.  The next morning I waited in my room
with General Warner, Judge Craig and others until 11 o'clock, and, the delegation not appearing,
was about to start on my visit to the mines, when the following note was handed me by one of
the colored servants of the house:

  "Birmingham, Ala.
"Hon. John Sherman.

"Dear Sir:--In accordance with arrangement, a committee of colored citizens of the United States
and the State of Alabama came to see you at 10 o'clock this morning.  The proprietor of the
Florence hotel declined to allow us to visit your room, and said if we desired to see you we
must see you outside of the Florence hotel. We regret the occurrence, as the committee is composed
of the best colored citizens of the community.

  "Yours respectfully,
  "A. L. Scott,
  "W. R. Pettiford,
  "Samuel R. Lowery,
  "R. C. D. Benjamin,
  "Albert Boyd."

I requested General Warner and Judge Craig to go to the proprietor of the hotel and ask him
if it was true that he had forbidden certain men going to my room.  The proprietor informed
them that it was true; it was against his rules to allow any colored people to go upstairs
except the servants.  I said I would not allow a hotel proprietor to say whom I should or should
not receive in my room.  That was a question I chose to decide for myself.  I therefore immediately
paid my bill and went to the Metropolitan hotel, where the delegation made their call.  Their
only object was to read to me an address of welcome to the city in behalf of the colored people.
Their address was well expressed and they were evidently intelligent and respectable men. 
They welcomed me cordially in behalf of their race and countrymen, and said:

"While we respect your political and statesmanlike life, not an event has equaled your manly
and heroic conduct in Birmingham, Alabama, in respect to the persecuted, proscribed and downtrodden
black citizens, on account of their race, color and proscription in this city and state.

"When you stated to the tavern keeper, if the black citizens were not permitted to visit you
there, you would go to another tavern, and if not permitted, you would stop with your baggage
in the street and receive them, shows a sympathy and sentiment that you, though honored and
able, feel bound with them and to them.  And every black man, woman and child thenceforward
in our state will pray Heaven's favor shall follow you and yours to a throne of grace for Sherman,
Ohio's noblest, heroic and patriotic statesman."

In reply I expressed pleasure at meeting the colored people, and, touching the Florence hotel
affair, advised forbearance.  "Be true to yourselves," I said, "be industrious, maintain your
own manhood, and they day will come when you can command recognition as men and citizens of
the United States, free and equal with all others." I assured them that I entertained as high
respect for colored people as I did for any other citizens.

I mention this incident at some length because, at the time, it excited much comment in the
press throughout the United States. It is but fair to say that the action of the hotel proprietor
was condemned by the leading Democrats of Birmingham, prominent among whom was the editor of
the "Iron Age."

In the evening I spoke at the opera house, which was well filled with representative citizens.
I was introduced by Rufus M. Rhodes, president of the News Publishing Company.  My speech was
confined mainly to nonpartisan subjects, to the industries in that section, and the effect
of national legislation upon them.  I had read of the vast deposits of coal and iron in that
section, and had that day seen them for myself.  I said:  "You have stored in the surrounding
hills elements of a wealth greater than all the banks of New York."  In speaking of the effect
of national legislation upon the development of their resources, I said I would not allude
to politics, because, though a strict party man, as they all knew, I believed that men who
differed with me were as honest as I was; that whatever might have occurred in the past, we
were a reunited people; that we had had our differences, and men of both sides sought to have
their convictions prevail, but I would trust the patriotism of an ex-Confederate in Alabama
as readily as an ex- Unionist in Ohio; that I was not there to speak of success in war, but
of the interests and prosperity of their people.  My nonpartisan speech was heartily approved.
General Warner made a brief address to his former constituents, and the meeting then adjourned.

I went the next day to Nashville, arriving early in the evening. A committee of the legislature
met me on my way.  On my arrival I met many of the members of both political parties, and was
the recipient of a serenade at which William C. Whitthorne, a Democratic Member of Congress,
made a neat speech welcoming me to the hospitality of the state.  None of the speeches contained
any political sentiments, referring mainly to the hopeful and prosperous outlook of the interests
of Tennessee.  During the next day I visited with the committee, at the head of which was Mr.
Kerchival, the mayor of the city, several manufacturing establishments, and the Fisk and Vanderbilt
universities, and also a school for colored boys. Among the more agreeable visits that day
was one made at the residence of Mrs. Polk, the widow of President Polk.  I remembered her
when she was the honored occupant and mistress of the White House, at the time of my first
visit to Washington in the winter of 1846-47.  She was still in vigorous health, and elegant
and dignified lady.

I wish here to express my grateful appreciation of the reception given me by the people of
Nashville on this occasion.  There was no appearance of mere form and courtesy due to a stranger
among them, but a hearty general welcome, such as would be extended to one representing their
opinions and identified with their interests. I met there several gentlemen with whom I had
served in Congress, most of whom had been in the Confederate service.  One of them paid me
a compliment after hearing my speech by saying:  "Sherman, your speech will trouble the boys
some, but I could answer you."

This speech was made on the evening of the 24th of March, 1887, in the hall of the house of
representatives.  It was carefully prepared with the expectation that it would be delivered
to an unsympathetic audience of able men.  I delivered it with scarcely a reference to my notes,
and substantially in the language written.  Tennessee and Kentucky had been Whig states, strongly
in favor of protection, and before the war were represented by John Bell and Henry Clay. I
claimed my fellowship with the people of Tennessee in the old Whig times, and, aside from the
questions that grew out of the war, assumed that they were still in favor of the policy of
protection of American industries by tariff laws.  I did not evade the slavery question or
the War of the Rebellion, but said of them what I would have said in Ohio.  I made an appeal
on behalf of the negro, and quoted what Senator Vest had eloquently said, that "the southern
man who would wrong them deserves to be blotted from the roll of manhood."  All we asked for
the negro was that the people of Tennessee would secure to him the rights and privileges of
an American citizen, according to the constitution of the United States.  I then presented
the questions of the hour, taxation, currency, public credit, foreign and domestic commerce,
education and internal improvements.  On these questions I said the people of Tennessee had
like interests and opinions with the people of Ohio, that the past was beyond recall, that
for evil or good the record was made up and laid away.  I discussed each of these subjects,
dwelling mainly on taxation and currency; in the one was the protection and promotion of home
industries, and in the other was the choice between bank notes of the olden time, and United
States notes and national bank notes secured by the bonds of the United States.  I closed with
these words:

"But I do, in the presence of you all, claim for the Republican party, and defy contradiction,
that in the grandeur of its achievements, in the benefits it has conferred upon the people,
in the patriotic motives that have animated it, and the principles that have guided it, in
the fidelity, honesty, and success of its administration of great public trusts, it will compare
favorably with the record of any administration of any government in ancient or modern times.
We ask you to aid us, to help us.  We make this appeal in the same words to the Confederate
gray as to the Union blue--to whoever in our great country is willing in the future to lend
a helping hand or vote to advance the honor, grandeur and prosperity of this great republic."

The speech, being made by a Republican at the capital of a southern Democratic state, attracted
great attention from the public press, and, much to my surprise, several of the leading Democratic
and independent papers commended it highly.  This was notably the case with the Louisville
"Courier Journal," the Washington "Evening Star," and the New York "Herald."  A brief extract
from the latter is given as an indication of public sentiment:

"Senator Sherman's Nashville speech is the first address on national politics ever spoken by
a Republican of national reputation to a southern audience.  He was welcomed by the prominent
citizens of the Tennessee capital, and spoke to a crowded and attentive audience in the hall
of representatives.

"Both the speech and the welcome the speaker received are notable and important events.  Mr.
Sherman spoke as a Republican in favor of Republican politics, and what he said was frankly
and forcibly put.  If the Republican leaders are wise they will take care to circulate Mr.
Sherman's Nashville speech all over the south, and through the north as well.  He spoke for
high protection, for internal improvements, for liberal expenditures on public buildings, for
the Blair education bill, for the maintenance of the present currency system, and for spending
the surplus revenue for public purposes.

"All that is the straightest and soundest Republican doctrine.  He told his hearers, also,
that the war is over, and that the interests of Tennessee and other southern states must naturally
draw them to the Republican party.  He spoke to attentive ears."

The speech was reprinted and had considerable circulation, but, like the shadows that pass,
it is probably forgotten by all who heard or read it.  I consider it as one of the best, in
temper, composition and argument, that I ever made.

It had been arranged that I was to be driven to Saint Paul's chapel after the meeting.  The
occasion was the assemblage of the educational association of the African Methodist Episcopal
church, and their friends.  The chapel was a large, handsome, well-furnished room, and was
crowded to the door with well-dressed men and women.  Dr. Bryant made an address of welcome,
and Bishop Turner introduced me to the audience.  I made a brief response and excused myself
from speaking further on account of fatigue.  General Grosvenor and ex- Senator Warner made
short speeches.  Our party then returned to the hotel.  To me this meeting was a surprise and
a gratification. Here was a body of citizens but lately slaves, who, in attendance on religious
services and afterward remaining until a late hour listening to us, behaved with order, attention
and intelligence. The report of my remarks, as given in their newspapers, was as follows:

"Senator Sherman said that the praise of himself had been too high. He had voted for the emancipation
of the negro race in the District of Columbia, an event which had preceded the emancipation
proclamation of Abraham Lincoln.  He supported it as a great act of national authority and
of justice.  Therefore, he could appear as a friend of the race and of liberty.  He had not
voted for it because they were negroes, but he had voted for it because they were men and women.
He would have voted for the whites as well.  He spoke of the society and said any measure that
would tend to elevate the race he was in favor of.  What the race wanted was not more rights
but more education.  Their rights were secured to them by the constitution of the United States,
and the time would come when they would enjoy them as freely as anyone.  They should not be
impatient to advance.  Prejudice could not be overcome in a short period.  He said the best
way to overcome all prejudice was by elevating themselves; but not by gaudy extravagance, groans,
abuse, war, or tumult of war.  They had the same right to become lawyers, doctors, soldiers
and heroes as the white man had.

"When they became as advanced as the whites around them there would be no trouble about their
franchises.  Now they were free men and they should become freeholders.  After they had got
education they should accumulate property."

On the next morning I left Nashville for Cincinnati, where I arrived on the evening of the
25th of March and took lodgings at the Gibson House.  I was to speak at Turner Hall on the
next evening, under the auspices of the Lincoln and Blaine clubs.  It was a busy day with me
in receiving calls and in visiting the chamber of commerce and the two clubs where speeches
were made and hand shaking done. Still, I knew what I was to say at the meeting, and the composition
of the audience I was to address.  The hall is large, with good acoustic qualities, and in
it I had spoken frequently.  It is situated in the midst of a dense population of workingmen,
and was so crowded that night in every part that many of the audience were compelled to stand
in the aisles and around the walls.  On entering I mentally contrasted my hearers with those
at Faneuil Hall and Nashville. Here was a sober, attentive and friendly body of workingmen,
who came to hear and weigh what was said, not in the hurry of Boston or with the criticism
of political opponents as in Nashville, but with an earnest desire to learn and to do what
was best for the great body of workingmen, of whom they were a part.  I was introduced in a
kindly way by ex-Governor Noyes.  After a brief reference to my trip to Florida and Cuba, I
described the country lying southwest of the Alleghany mountains, about two hundred miles wide,
extending from Detroit to Mobile, destined to be the great workshop of the United States, where
coal and iron could be easily mined, where food was abundant and cheap, and in a climate best
fitted for the development of the human race.  In this region, workingmen, whether farmers,
mechanics or laborers, would always possess political power as the controlling majority of
the voters.  I claimed that the Republican party was the natural home of workingmen, that its
policy, as developed for thirty years, had advanced our industrial interests and diversified
the employments of the people.  This led to a review of our political policy, the homestead
law, the abolition of slavery, good money always redeemable in coin, the development of manufactures
and the diversity of employments.  I discussed the creation of new parties, such as the labor
party and the temperance party, and contended that their objects could better be attained by
the old parties.  I referred to the organization of a national bureau of labor, to a bill providing
for arbitration, and other measures in the interest of labor.  I stated the difficulties in
the way of the government interposing between capital and labor. They were like husband and
wife; they must settle their quarrels between them, but the law, if practicable, should provide
a mode of adjustment.  I closed with the following appeal to them as workingmen:

"Let us stand by the Republican party, and we will extend in due time our dominion and power
into other regions; not by annexation, not by overriding peaceable and quiet people, but by
our commercial influence, by extending our steamboat lines into South America, by making all
the Caribbean Sea one vast American ocean; by planting our influence among the sister republics,
by aiding them from time to time, and thus, by pursuing an American policy, become the ruler
of other dominions."

From Cincinnati, after a brief visit to Mansfield, I returned to Washington to await the opening
of spring weather, which rarely comes in the highlands of Ohio until the middle of May.

General Sherman and I had been invited several times to visit Woodbury, Connecticut, for nearly
two centuries the home of our ancestors.  In April, both being in Washington, we concluded
to do so, and advised Mr. Cothron, the historian of Woodbury, of our purpose.  We arrived in
the evening at Waterbury, and there found that our coming was known.  Several gentlemen met
us at the depot and conducted us to the hotel, some of them having served with General Sherman
in the Civil War.  Among them was a reporter.  We explained to him that we were on our way
to Woodbury, had no plans to execute, intended to erect no monuments, as was stated, and only
wished to see where our ancestors had lived and died.  General Sherman was rather free in his
talk about the steep hills and cliffs near High Rock grove.  These he admired as scenery, but
he said: "I cannot see how this rocky country can be converted into farming lands that can
be made profitable;" also "I am indeed pleased to think that my ancestors moved from this region
to Ohio in 1810." Among the callers was S. M. Kellogg, who had served with me in Congress.

The next morning we went to Woodbury, called on William Cothron, and proceeded to the cemetery
and other places of note in the neighborhood.  In this way the day was pleasantly spent.  I
thought there were signs of decay in the old village since my former visit, but this may have
been caused by the different seasons of the year at which these visits were made.  Woodbury
looks more like an England shire town than any other in Connecticut.  Its past history was
full of interest, but the birth and growth of manufacturing towns all around eclipsed it and
left only its memories.  After visiting the site of the old Sherman homestead, about a mile
from town, and the famous Stoddard house, in which my grandmother was born, we returned to
New York.

I had been invited by the officers and members of the Illinois legislature, then in session
at Springfield, to speak in the hall of the house of representatives on the political issues
of the day. I accepted with some reluctance, as I doubted the expediency of a partisan address
at such a place.  My address at Nashville, no doubt, led to the invitation; but the conditions
were different in the two cities.  At Nashville it was expected that I would make a conciliatory
speech, tending to harmony between the sections, while at Springfield I could only make a partisan
speech, on lines well defined between the two great parties, and, as I learned afterwards,
by reason of local issues, to a segment of the Republican party. Had I known this in advance
I would have declined the invitation.

The 1st of June was the day appointed.  I arrived in Chicago, at a late hour, on the 29th of
May, stopping at the Grand Pacific hotel, and soon after received the calls of many citizens
in the rotunda.  On the evening of the 30th I was tendered a reception by the Union League
club in its library, and soon became aware of the fact that one segment of the Republican party,
represented by the Chicago "Tribune," was not in attendance.  The reception, however, was a
very pleasant one, greatly aided by a number of ladies.

The next morning, accompanied by Senator Charles B. Farwell and a committee of the club, I
went to Springfield.  I have often traversed the magnificent State of Illinois, but never saw
it clothed more beautifully than on this early summer day.  The broad prairies covered with
green, the wide reaches of cultivated land, rich with growing corn, wheat and oats, presented
pictures of fertility that could not be excelled in any portion of the world.  I met Governor
Oglesby and many leading citizens of Illinois on the way, and on my arrival at Springfield
was received by Senator Cullom and other distinguished gentlemen, and conducted to the Leland
hotel, but soon afterward was taken to the residence of Senator Cullom, where several hours
were spent very pleasantly.  Later in the evening I attended a reception tendered by Governor
and Mrs. Oglesby, and there met the great body of the members of the legislature and many citizens.

On the 1st of June an elaborate order of arrangements, including a procession, was published,
but about noon there came a heavy shower of rain that changed the programme of the day.  A
platform had been erected at the corner of the statehouse, from which the speaking was to be
made.  This had to be abandoned and the meeting was held in the hall of the house of representatives,
to which no one could enter without a ticket.

It was not until 2:40 p. m. that we entered the hall, when Governor Oglesby, taking the speaker's
chair, rapped for order and briefly addressed the assembly.  I was then introduced and delivered
the speech I had prepared, without reading or referring to it.  It was published and widely
circulated.  The following abstract, published in the Chicago "Inter-Ocean," indicates the
topics I introduced:

"The Senator began first to awaken applause at the mention of the name of Lincoln, repeated
soon after and followed by a popular recognition of the name of Douglas.  He quoted from Logan,
and cheers and applause greeted his words.  There was Democratic applause when he proclaimed
his belief 'that had Douglas lived he would have been as loyal as Lincoln himself,' and again
it resounded louder still when Logan received a hearty tribute.  He touched upon the successes
of our protective policy, and again the applause accentuated his point.  He exonerated the
Confederate soldier from sympathy with the atrocities of reconstruction times, and his audience
appreciated it.  He charged the Democratic party in the south with these atrocities and the
continual effort to deprive the negro of his vote, and the audience appreciated that.  His
utterance that he would use the power of Congress to get the vote of a southern Republican
counted at least once, excited general applause.  They laughed when he asked what Andrew Jackson
would have thought of Cleveland, and they laughed again when he declared the Democrats wanted
to reduce the revenue, but didn't know how.  He read them the tariff plank in the Confederate
platform, and they laughed to see how it agreed with the same plank in the Democratic platform.
From discussion of the incapacity of the Democrats to deal with the tariff question, from their
very construction of the constitution, the Senator passed to the labor question, thence carrying
the interest of his hearers to the purpose of the Republicans to educate the masses, and make
internal improvements.  His audience felt the point well made when he declared the President
allowed the internal improvement bill to expire by a pocket veto because it contained a $5,000
provision for the Hennepin Canal.  In excellent humor the audience heard him score the Democracy
for its helplessness to meet the currency question, and finally pass, in his peroration, to
an elaboration of George William Curtis' eulogy of the achievements of the Republican party.
He read the twelve Republican principles, and each utterance received its applause like the
readoption of a popular creed.  'The Democrats put more jail birds in office in their brief
term than the Republicans did in the twenty-four years of our magnificent service,' exclaimed
Senator Sherman, and his audience laughed, cheered, and applauded.  Applause followed each
closing utterance as the Senator outlined the purposes of the party for future victory, and
predicted that result, the Democrats under the Confederate flag, the Republicans under the
flag of the Union."

I returned the next day to Chicago, and in the evening was tendered a public reception in the
parlors of the Grant Pacific hotel. Although Chicago was familiar to me, yet I was unknown
to the people of Chicago.  One or two thousand people shook hands with me and with them several
ladies.  Among those I knew were Justice Harlan, Robert T. Lincoln and Walker and Emmons Blaine.

Upon my return to Mansfield I soon observed, in the Democratic and conservative papers, hostile
criticism of my Springfield speech, and especially of my arraignment of the crimes at elections
in the south, and of the marked preference by Cleveland in the appointments to office of Confederate
soldiers rather than Union soldiers.  A contrast was made between the Nashville and Springfield
speeches, and the latter was denounced as "waving the bloody shirt."  Perhaps the best answer
to this is the following interview with me, about the middle of June:

"So much fault is found with the Springfield speech by the opponents of the Republican party,
and so many accusations made of inconsistency with the Nashville speech, that perhaps you may
say--what you meant --what the foremost purpose was in both cases?"

"I meant my Springfield speech to be an historical statement of the position of the two parties
and their tendencies and aims in the past and for the future.  In this respect it differed
from the Nashville speech, which was made to persuade the people of the south, especially of
Tennessee, that their material interests would be promoted by the policy of the Republican party."

"Do you find anything in the Springfield speech to moderate or modify?"

"I do not think I said a word in the Springfield speech but what is literally true, except,
perhaps, the statement that 'there is not an intelligent man in this broad land, of either
party, who does not know that Mr. Cleveland is now President of the United States by virtue
of crimes against the elective franchise.'  This may be too broad, but upon a careful analysis
I do not see how I could modify it if fair force is given to the word 'intelligent.'"

"You stand by the speech, then?"

"Well, since the speech has been pretty severely handled by several editors whom I am bound
to respect, I have requested it to be printed in convenient form, and intend to send it to
these critics with a respectful request that they will point out any error of fact contained
in it, or any inconsistency between it and my Nashville speech."

"You do not admit that the two speeches are in two voices?"

"I can discover no inconsistency.  And now, after seeing and weighting these criticisms, I
indorse and repeat every word of both speeches.  It may be that the speech was impolitic, but,
as I have not usually governed my speeches and conduct by the rule of policy, as distinguished
from the rule of right, I do not care to commence now."

"What about the persistent charge of unfriendliness to southern people and the accusation that
you are shaking the bloody shirt?"

"I do not see how the arraignment of election methods that confessedly destroy the purity or
the sanctity of the ballot box, and deprive a million of people of their political rights,
can be ignored or silenced in a republic by the shoo-fly cry of 'bloody shirt.'"

"Is there no hope of persuasion of the southern people at large to see the justice of the demand
for equal political rights?"

"I cannot see any reason why the Confederate cause, which was 'eternally wrong,' but bravely
and honestly fought out, should be loaded down with the infamy of crimes which required no
courage, committed long since the war, by politicians alone, for political power and for the
benefit of the Democratic party.  I can find some excuse for these atrocities in the strong
prejudice of caste and race in the south, growing out of centuries of slavery, but I can find
no excuse for any man of any party in the north, who is willing to submit to have his political
power controlled and overthrown by such means."

During the months of June and July, 1887, the question of the selection of the Republican candidate
for President in the following year was discussed in the newspapers, in the conventions, and
among the people.  The names of Blaine and myself were constantly canvassed in connection with
that office, and others were named.  I was repeatedly written to and talked with about it,
and uniformly said, to warm personal friends, that in view of my experience at previous national
conventions I would not be a candidate without the support of a united delegation from Ohio,
and the unanimous indorsement of a state convention.  I referred to the fact that in every
period of my political career I had been supported by the people of Ohio, and would not aspire
to a higher position without their hearty approval.  This statement was openly and publicly
made and published in the newspapers.  The "Commercial Gazette," of Cincinnati was authorized
to make this declaration:

"If the Republicans of Ohio want Mr. Sherman for their presidential candidate they can say
so at the Toledo convention.  If not, Mr. Sherman will be entirely content with the position
he now occupies, and will not be in the field as a presidential candidate."

I also wrote the following to a friend, and it was afterwards published:

"I do not want to be held up to the people of the United States as a presidential candidate
if there is any doubt about Ohio.  I do not, as many think, seek for the high honor, nor do
I ask anyone to aid me in securing the nomination.  I am as passive about it as any man can
be whose merits or demerits are discussed in that connection.  I do not desire the nomination,
nor shall I encourage anyone to secure it for me until Ohio Republicans, who have conferred
upon me the honors I have enjoyed, shall, with substantial unanimity, express their wish for
my nomination."

This led my friends to determine to present this question to the approaching state convention
at Toledo.  It was said that, as this would be held in a year in advance of the national convention,
it was too soon to open the subject, but the conclusive answer was that no other state convention
would be held prior to the national convention, and that it was but fair that I should have
the chance to decline if there should be a substantial difference of opinion in the convention,
and should have the benefit of its approval if it should be given.

It was understood that Governor Foraker would be unanimously renominated for governor.  He
doubted the policy of introducing in that contest a resolution in favor of my nomination for
President, but said it if should be passed he would support it.  The press of the state was
somewhat divided as to the policy of the convention making a declaration of a choice for President,
but indicated an almost universal opinion that there should be an undivided delegation in favor
of my nomination.  As the convention approached, the feeling in favor of such declaration grew
stronger, and when it met at Toledo, on the 28th of July, there was practically no opposition.
After the preliminary organization ex-Governor Foster reported a series of resolutions, which
strongly indorsed me for President, and highly commended Foraker for renomination as governor.
The convention called for the rereading of these resolutions and they were applauded and unanimously
adopted.  The committee on permanent organization nominated me as chairman of the convention.
In assuming these duties I made a speech commending the nomination of Governor Foraker and
the action of the recent general assembly, and closed with these words:

"I have but one other duty to perform, and that I do with an overflowing heart.  I thank you
with all my heart for the resolution that you have this day passed in respect to your choice
for a President of the United States.  I know, my fellow-citizens, that this is a matter of
sentiment.  I know that this resolution is of no importance unless the voters of the States
of Ohio and of the several states should, in their free choice, elect delegates who will agree
with you in your opinion.  I recognize the district rule, and the right of every district to
speak its own voice.  I stood by that rule in 1880, when I knew that its adoption would cut
off all hopes of my friends at that time.  I also knew that there was another rule, that no
man ought to be held as a candidate for that high office unless he has the substantial, unanimous
voice of his party friends behind him.  I believe that is a true rule, and it ought to be exercised
to promote harmony and good will and friendship among Republicans.  Now, my countrymen, again
thanking you for this expression, I tell you with all frankness that I think more of your unanimous
praise this day uttered than I do of the office of President of United States."

The resolution, as adopted, was as follows:

"Recognizing, as the Republicans of Ohio always have, the gifted and tried statesmen of the
Republican party of other states, loyal and unfaltering in their devotion to the success of
the organization in 1888, under whatever standard bearer the Republican national convention
may select, they have just pride in the record and career of John Sherman, as a member of the
Republican party, and as a statesman of fidelity, large experience and great ability.  His
career as a statesman began with the birth of the Republican party; he has grown and developed
with the growth of that organization; his genius and patriotism are stamped upon the records
of the party and the statutes and constitution of the country, and, believing that his nomination
for the office of President would be wise and judicious, we respectfully present his name to
the people of the United States as a candidate, and announce our hearty and cordial support
of him for that office."

The convention then proceeded to form a state ticket.

During the summer vacation of 1887, I made a trip across the continent from Montreal to Victoria,
Vancouver Island, and from the Sound to Tacoma, going over the Canadian Pacific railroad, and
returning by that line to Port Arthur, at the head of Lake Superior then, by one of the iron
steamers of the Canadian Pacific road, through Lake Superior and Lake Huron to Owen Sound,
and from there by rail to Toronto and home.

I had for many years desired to visit that country and to view for myself its natural resources
and wonders, and to inspect the achievement of the Canadian Pacific Railroad Company.

I was accompanied on this journey by James S. Robinson, formerly secretary of state of Ohio,
ex-Congressman Amos Townsend, for many years Member from Cleveland, and Charles H. Grosvenor,
Member of Congress from Athens, Ohio.  We met at Cleveland and spent the next night at Toronto.
Thence we proceeded to Montreal, and there received many courtesies from gentlemen distinguished
in private and public life.  We left Toronto on the night of the 1st of August, in a special
car attached to the great through train which then made its journey to Vancouver in about six
days.  We halted at Sudbury, the point on the Canadian Pacific from which the Sault Ste. Marie
line of railway diverges from the main track.  We spent twenty-four hours at Sudbury, visiting
the copper and nickel mining operations, then in their infancy.  Proceeding, we passed the
head of Lake Superior, and thence to Winnipeg.  At this place the officers of the provincial
government showed us many attentions, and I was especially delighted by a visit I made to Archbishop
Taché of the Catholic church, a very aged man.  He had been a missionary among the Indians
at the very earliest period of time when missionary work was done in that section.  He had
been a devoted and faithful man, and now, in the evening of his life, enjoyed the greatest
respect and received the highest honors from the people of his neighborhood, regardless of
race or religion.

Proceeding from Winnipeg, we entered the great valley of the Saskatchewan, traversed the mighty
wheat fields of that prolific province, and witnessed the indications of the grain producing
capacity in that portion of Canada, alone quite sufficient, if pushed to its utmost, the furnish
grain for the whole continent of America.  We spent one night for rest and observation at a
point near the mouth of the Bow River, and then proceeded to Calgary. This is the westernmost
point where there is arable and grazing lands before beginning the ascent of the Rocky mountains.
Here we inspected a sheep ranch owned by a gentleman from England.  It is located at Cochrane,
a few miles west of Calgary.  It was managed by a young gentleman of most pleasing manners
and great intelligence, who was surrounded at the time of our visit by numerous Scotch herdsmen,
each of whom had one or more collie dogs.  The collie, as everybody knows, is a Scotch production,
and it has been imported into the country largely for the service of the great sheep and cattle
ranches of the west.  One shepherd was about to depart from Canada to reoccupy his home in
Scotland, and among his other effects was a collie, passing under the name of Nellie.  She
was a beautiful animal, and so attracted my attention that at my suggestion General Grosvenor
bought her, and undertook to receive her at the train as we should pass east a week or ten
days later.  The train, on our return, passed Calgary station at about two o'clock in the morning
in the midst of a pouring rain storm, but the shepherd was on hand with the dog, and her pedigree
carefully written out, and the compliments of Mr. Cochrane, and his assurance that the pedigree
was truthful.  Nellie was brought to Ohio, and her progeny is very numerous in the section
of the state where she lived and flourished.

Leaving Calgary, we followed the valley of the Bow River.  The current of this river is very
swift in the summer, fed as it is by the melting of the snows of the Rocky mountains.  We soon
began to realize that we were ascending amid the mighty peaks of the great international chain.
We spent one day at Banff, the National Park of the Dominion.  Here we found water, boiling
hot, springing out from the mountain side, and a magnificent hotel--apparently out of all proportion
to the present or prospective need--being erected, with every indication of an effort, at least,
to make the Canadian National Park a popular place of resort.

All about this region of country it is claimed there are deposits of gold and silver, and at
one point we saw the incipient development of coal mining, coal being produced which it was
claimed, and it seemed to me with good reason, to be equal in valuable qualities to the Pennsylvania
anthracite.

Passing from the National Park and skirting the foot of the Giant mountains, we entered the
mighty valley of the great Fraser River. The scenery between Calgary and Kamloops is indescribably
majestic. We were furnished by the railroad company with a time-table in the form of a pamphlet,
and a description of the principal railway stations and surrounding country written by Lady
Smith, the wife of Sir Donald Smith, of Montreal, one of the original projectors of the Canadian
Pacific railroad.  This lady was an artist, a poet, with high literary attainment, and her
descriptions of the mountains, of the glaciers, of the rivers and scenery were exceedingly
well done.  We stopped at one of the company hotels, at the foot of one of the mightiest mountains,
whose peak ascends thousands of feet into the air, and at whose base, within a few rods of
the entrance to the hotel, was the greatest of the mighty glaciers, almost equal in beauty
and grandeur, as seen by us, with the far-famed glacier of the Rhone.

The construction of this railroad through the mountains is a marvel of engineering skill and
well illustrates what the persistence and industry of man can accomplish.  More than seventy
miles of this line, as I remember it, are covered by snowsheds, constructed of stanch timbers
along the base of the mountain in such a manner that the avalanches, which occasionally rush
down from the mountain top and from the side of the mountain, strike upon the sheds and so
fall harmless into the valley below, while the powerful locomotives go rushing through the
snowsheds, heedless of the dangers overhead.

The Fraser River was full of camps of men engaged in the business of catching, drying and canning
the salmon of that stream.  The timber along this river is of great importance.  The Canadian
fir and other indigenous trees line the banks and mountain sides in a quantity sufficient to
supply the demand of the people of that great country for many years to come.  But it was unpleasant
to witness the devastation that the fires had made by which great sections of the forests had
been killed.  The Canadian government has made a determined effort to suppress these fires
in their forests and upon their plains, and it is one of the duties of the mounted police force,
which we saw everywhere along the line of the road, to enforce the regulations in regard to
the use of fire, but, naturally and necessarily, nearly all these efforts are abortive and
great destruction results.

Vancouver, at the mouth of the Fraser, is the terminus of the Canadian Pacific railway.  At
this point steamers are loaded for the China and Japan trade and a passenger steamer departs
daily, and perhaps oftener, for Victoria, an important city at the point of Vancouver Island.
We had a delightful trip on this steamer, running in and out among the almost numberless islands.
It was an interesting and yet most intricate passage.

At Victoria we were entertained by gentlemen of public position and were also shown many attentions
by private citizens.  We were invited to attend a dinner on board of a great British war vessel,
then lying at Esquimault.  A canvass of our party disclosed the fact that our dress suits had
been left at Vancouver, and being on foreign soil and under the domination of her British majesty's
flag, we felt it was impossible to accept the invitation, and so, with a manifestation of great
reluctance on the part of my associates, the invitation was declined.

We went by steamer to Seattle, Washington Territory, where we remained over night and were
very kindly received and entertained by the people.  Among the persons who joined in the reception
were Watson C. Squire and his wife, then residents of the territory. Mr. Squire, after the
admission of Washington as a state, became one of her Senators.

We were joined on this part of our journey by Carter H. Harrison, of Chicago, whose fourth
term of office as mayor had just closed, and who was escorting his son and a young friend on
a journey around the world.  While waiting for the departure of the Canadian Pacific steamer
from Vancouver, he joined in this excursion through the sound.  He was a most entertaining
conversationalist, and we enjoyed his country greatly.

There was much rivalry at that time between the growing cities of Seattle and Tacoma.  At a
reception in Seattle, one of the party, in responding to a call for a speech, spoke of having
inquired of a resident of Seattle as to the whereabouts of Mount Tacoma.  He said he was informed
by the person to whom he applied that there was no Mount Tacoma.  On stating that he had so
understood from citizens of Washington Territory, he was informed that there was not then and
never had been a Mount Tacoma.  The gentleman was informed, however, that in the distance,
enshrouded in the gloom of fog and smoke, there was a magnificent mountain, grand in proportion
and beautiful in outline, and the mountain's name was Rainier.  Later on he said he had inquired
of a citizen of Tacoma as to the whereabouts, from that city, of Mount Rainier, and the gentleman,
with considerable scorn on his countenance, declared that there was no such mountain, but in
a certain direction at a certain distance was Mount Tacoma.  The gentleman closed his speech
by saying, whether it was Mount Tacoma or Mount Rainier, our party was unanimously in favor
of the admission of Washington Territory into the Union.

We visited some sawmills at Tacoma where lumber of monstrous proportions and in great quantities
was being produced by a system of gang saws.  This is a wonderful industry and as long as the
material holds out will be a leading one of that section.  The deep waters of Puget Sound will
always offer to the industrious population of Washington ample and cheap means of transportation
to the outside market, and I predict a great future for the state.

We returned east more hastily and with fewer stops than in the western journey.  We spend a
night at Port Arthur, and the next day, embarking upon one of the great steamers of the Canadian
Pacific line, found among our fellow-passengers Goldwin Smith, the distinguished Canadian writer
and statesman.  We had a most pleasant trip, arriving at Owen Sound without special incident;
thence to Toronto, and by steamer to Niagara, where we remained until the next day, when our
party separated for their several homes.  The trip occupied exactly a month and was full of
enjoyment from the beginning to the end.

After my return home I wrote a note to General Sherman, describing my impressions of the country.
In this I said:

"My trip to the Pacific over the Canadian railroad was a great success.  We traveled 7,000
miles without fatigue, accident or detention.  We stopped at the chief points of interest,
such as Toronto, Montreal, Sudbury, Port Arthur, Winnipeg, Calgary, Banff, Donald, Glacier
House, Vancouver, Victoria, Seattle and Tacoma, and yet made the round trip within the four
weeks allowed.  We did not go to Alaska, because of the fogs and for want of time.  The trip
was very instructive, giving me an inside view of many questions that may be important in the
future.  The country did not impress me as a desirable acquisition, though it would not be
a bad one. The people are hardy and industrious.  If they had free commercial intercourse with
the United States, their farms, forests, and mines would become more valuable, but at the expense
of the manufactures. If the population of Mexico and Canada were homogenous with ours, the
union of the three countries would make the whole the most powerful nation in the world."

I then entered into the canvass.  I attended the state fair at Columbus on the 2nd of September,
first visiting the Wool Growers' Association, and making a brief speech in respect to the change
in the duty on wool by the tariff of 1883.  I reminded the members of that association that
they were largely responsible for the action of Congress on the wool schedule, that while all
the other interests were largely represented before the committees of Congress, they were only
represented by two gentlemen, Columbus Delano and William Lawrence, both from the State of
Ohio, who did all they could to prevent the reduction.  Later in the day I attended a meeting
of the state grange, at which several speeches had been made.  I disclaimed the power to instruct
the gentlemen before me, who knew so much more about farming that I, but called their attention
to the active competition they would have in the future in the growth of cereals in the great
plains of the west.  I described the wheat fields I had seen far west of Winnipeg, ten degrees
north of us in Canada.  I said the wheat was sown in the spring as soon as the surface could
be plowed, fed by the thawing frosts and harvested in August, yielding 25 to 40 bushels to
the acre, that our farms had to compete in most of their crops with new and cheap lands in
fertile regions which but a few years before were occupied by Indians and buffaloes.  "We must
diversify our crops," I said, "or make machines to work for us more and more.  New wants are
created by increased population in cities.  This is one lesson of many lessons we can learn
from the oldest nations in Europe.  With large cities growing up around us the farmer becomes
a gardener, a demand is created for dairy products, for potatoes, and numerous articles of
food which yield a greater profit.  In Germany, France and Italy they are now producing more
sugar from beets than is produced in all the world from sugar cane.  The people of the United
States now pay $130,000,000 for sugar which can easily be produced from beets grown in any
of the central states."  I said much more to the same purport.

I visited all parts of the state fair, and tried to avoid talking politics, but wherever I
went on the ground I found groups engaged in talking about the Toledo convention, and the prospects
of Republican or Democratic success.  I had been away so long that I supposed the embers left
by the convention were extinguished, but nothing, I think, can prevent the Ohio man from expressing
his opinion about parties and politics.  I met William Lawrence, one of the ablest men of the
state as a lawyer, a judge and a Member of Congress.  An interview with him had recently been
published in respect to the resolution indorsing my candidacy.  This was frequently called
to my attention, and though I had not then read it, my confidence in him was so great I was
willing to indorse anything he had said.

On the 7th of September I attended a soldiers' meeting at Bellville, in Richland county, where
it was said upwards of 4,000 people took part.  I made quite a long talk to them, but was far
more interested in the stories of men who had served in the war, many of whom gave graphic
accounts of scenes and incidents in which they had taken part.  I have attended many such meetings,
but do not recall any that was more interesting.  The story of the private soldier is often
rich in experience.  It tells of what he saw in battle, and these stories of the soldiers,
told to each other, form the web and woof out of which history is written.  It was useless
to preach to these men that Providence directly controls the history of nations.  A good Presbyterian
would find in our history evidence of the truth of his theory that all things are ordained
beforehand. Certain it is that the wonderful events in our national life might be cited as
an evidence of this theory.  I do reverently recognize in the history of our war, the hand
of a superintending Providence that has guided our great nation from the beginning to this
hour. The same power which guided our fathers' fathers through the Revolutionary War, upheld
the arms of the soldiers of the Union Army in the Civil War, and I trust that the same good
Providence will guide our great nation in the years to come.

I made my opening political speech in this campaign at Wilmington, on the 15th of September.
Clinton county is peopled almost exclusively by a farming community, whose rich upland is drained
by the waters of the Scioto and Miami Rivers.  My speech, not only on this occasion, but during
the canvass in other parts of the state, was chiefly confined to a defense of the Republican
party and its policy while in power, which I contrasted with what I regarded as the feebleness
of Mr. Cleveland's administration.  I touched upon state matters with brevity, but complimented
our brilliant and able governor, Foraker.  I referred to the attacks that had been made upon
me about my speech in Springfield, Illinois, and said that no one had answered by arraignment,
except by the exploded cry of "the bloody shirt," or claimed that a single thing stated by
me as fact was not true.  I referred to the "tenderfoot" who would not hurt anyone's feelings,
who would banish the word "rebel" from our vocabulary, who would not denounce crimes against
our fellow-citizens when they occurred, who thought that, like Cromwell's Roundheads, we must
surrender our captured flags to the rebels who bore them, and our Grand Army boys, bent and
gray, must march under the new flag, under the flag of Grover Cleveland, or not hold their
camp fires in St. Louis.  In conclusion, I said:

"But I will not proceed further.  The immediate question is whether you will renew and ratify
the brilliant administration of Governor Foraker, and support him with a Republican legislature.
I feel that it is hardly necessary to appeal to the good people of Clinton county for an overwhelming
vote in favor of a man so well known and highly respected among you, and whose associates on
the state ticket are among the most worthy and deserving Republicans of Ohio. I call your attention
to the special importance of the election of your candidates for senator and members of the
house.  It is of vital importance to secure a Republican legislature to secure and complete
the good work of the last.  Our success this fall by a good majority will be a cheering preparation
for the grand campaign of the next year, when we shall have an opportunity again to test the
question of whether the Republican party, which conducted several administrations in the most
trying period of American history with signal success, shall be restored to power to renew
the broad national policy by which it preserved the Union, abolished slavery and advanced the
republic, in strength, wealth, credit and varied industries, to the foremost place among the
nations of the world."

In the latter part of September, I made an address to the farmers of Wayne county, at Lyons,
New York.  The county borders on Lake Ontario.  Its surface is undulating, its soil generally
fertile, and beneath are iron ore, limestone, gypsum, salt and sulphur springs.  Its chief
products are dairy and farm produce and live stock.  I said that my experience about a farm
was not such as would justify me in advising about practical farming, that I was like many
lawyers, preachers, editors and Members of Congress, who instinctively seek to get possession
of a farm, not to show farmers how to cultivate land, but to spend a good portion of their
income in a healthy recreation, that Horace Greeley and Henry Ward Beecher were, when living,
good specimens of this kind of farmer, that they all soon learned by sad experience that--

  "He that by the plow would thrive,
   Himself must either hold or drive."

I claimed to be one of the farmers whose potatoes and chickens cost more than the market price.
Still, those engaged in professional pursuits, and especially Members of Congress, have to
study the statistics of agriculture because upon the increase and diversity of its varied productions
depend the wealth and progress of the country for which we legislate.  I will not undertake
to repeat in any detail what I said.  I drew the distinction between the work of a mechanic
and the work of a farmer; the mechanic had but a single employment and sometimes confined himself
to the manufacture of a single article, but the farmer must pursue the opposite course. He
must diversify his crops each year, and the nature of his labors varies with the seasons. 
His success and profit depend upon the diversity of his productions, and the full and constant
occupation of his time.  I described what I had seen in the far-off region near the new city
of Tacoma on Puget Sound, where the chief employment of the farmer is in raising hops, and
also the mode of producing wheat in the vast plains of Canada, which, now that the buffalo
is gone, are plowed in the spring, sown in wheat and left unguarded and untended until ready
for the great machines which cut and bind the crop and thresh it ready for the market.  I described
the production of the celery plant in the region of Kalamazoo, Michigan, where a large portion
of the soil is devoted to this vegetable. As each region varied in climate, soil and market,
the occupations of farmers had to vary with the conditions that surrounded them. The great
cereals, such as wheat, corn, oats and barley, can be produced in most parts of the United
States.  Our farmers ought constantly to diversity their crops and add to the number of their
productions.  Attention had been recently turned to the possibility of producing beet sugar
in the northern states, the great obstacle being the cost of the factory and machinery which,
to secure profitable results, could not be erected for less than $200,000, but I predicted
that this industry would be established and sugar sufficient for our wants would be produced
in our own country.  I referred to the great advance made in the methods of farming, during
the past forty years, with the aid of new inventions of agricultural implements and new modes
of transportation, and the wonderful progress that had been made in other fields of invention
and discovery, and in conclusion said:

"And so in mental culture, in the knowledge of chemistry, in granges and fairs, in books, magazines
and pamphlets devoted to agriculture, the farmer of to-day has the means of information which
lifts his occupation to the dignity of a science.  The good order of society now rests upon
the intelligence and conservatism of the farmers of the United States, for to them all classes
must look for safety against the dogmas and doctrines that threaten the social fabric, and
sacred rights of persons and property, and I believe the trust will not be in vain."

I spoke nearly every day during the month of October, in different parts of the State of Ohio.
I do not recall a town of importance that I did not visit, nor a congressional district in
which I did not speak.  Governor Foraker was even more active than I was.  His speeches were
received with great applause, and his manners and conduct made him popular.  The only danger
he encountered was in the active movement of the Prohibition party.  This party ran a separate
ticket, the votes of which, it was feared, would mainly come from the Republican party.  In
a speech I made at Oberlin, on the 4th of November, I made an appeal to our Prohibition friends
to support the Republican ticket.  I said:

"There are but two great parties in this country, one or the other of which is to be put in
power.  You have a perfect right to vote for the smaller Prohibition party, and thus throw
away your vote, but you know very well that either a Republican or a Democratic legislature
will be elected, and that there will not be a single Prohibition candidate elected.  Will it
not be better to choose between these two parties and give your assistance to the one that
has done the most for the success of your principles?  We think the Republican party is still
entitled, as in the past, to your hearty support.  Among other of its enactments there is the
'Dow law,' looked upon you with suspicion, yet it has done more for temperance than your 'prohibition
laws' at present could have done. That law enables you to exclude the sale of liquor in more
than 400 Ohio towns.  It was passed by a Republican legislature.  By it more than 3,000 saloons
have been driven out of existence.

"Then you have the repeated declaration of the Republican party, a party that never deceived
the people with false promises, that they will do anything else that is necessary, or all that
is possible by law, to check the evils that flow from intoxicating drinks.

"Is there not a choice between that party and the Democratic party, which has always been the
slave of the liquor party, and whose opposition to the enforcement of the Dow law cost the
state $2,000,000?  The Democratic party, if put in power, will repeal that law and will do
nothing for prohibition that you will accept. They say they want license, but they know it
can never be brought about without a change in the constitution.  They want the liquor traffic
to go unrestrained.  It does seem to me that with all the intelligence of this community it
is the duty of all its candid men, who are watching the tendencies of these two parties in
this country, not to throw their votes away.

"It is much better to do our work by degrees, working slowly in the right direction, than to
attempt to do it prematurely by wholesale, and fail.  More men have been broken up by attempting
too much than by 'going slow.'

"Your powerful moral influence, if kept within the Republican party, will do more good, a thousandfold,
than you can do losing your vote by casting it for a ticket that cannot be elected.  Next year
will present one of the most interesting spectacles in our history. The Republican party will
gather its hosts of progressive and patriotic citizens into one grand party at its national
convention, and I trust that when that good time comes our Prohibition friends and neighbors
who stand aloof from us will come back and join the old fold and rally around the old flag
of our country, the stars and stripes, and help us to march on to a grand and glorious victory."

I closed my part of the canvass on the 5th of November, at Music Hall, Cleveland, one of the
finest meetings that I ever attended. General E. S. Meyer and D. K. Watson shared in the speaking.

The result of the election, on the following Tuesday, gave Governor Foraker a plurality of
23,329 over Thomas E. Powell, and the legislature was Republican in both branches.

During the canvass I felt specially anxious for the election of Governor Foraker and a Republican
legislature.  Some doubts had been expressed by members of the Toledo convention whether the
resolution favoring my nomination for President would not endanger the election of Governor
Foraker, and his defeat would have been attributed to that resolution.  I did not believe it
could have that effect, yet the fear of it led to my unusual activity in the canvass.  I was
very much gratified with the result.  Before and after the election the general discussion
was continued in the newspapers for and against my nomination, upon the presumption that the
contest would lie between Mr. Blaine and myself.

The election in New York was adverse to the Republican party, and this and his feeble health
no doubt largely influenced Mr. Blaine in declining to be a candidate for the nomination. 
Upon the surface it appeared that I would probably be the nominee, but I took no step whatever
to promote the nomination and resumed my duties in the Senate with a firm resolve not to seek
the nomination, but to rest upon the resolution adopted at Toledo.  When letters came to me,
as many did, favoring my nomination, I referred them to Green B. Raum, at that time a resident
in Washington, to make such answer as he thought expedient.

The 50th Congress convened on the 5th of December, 1887, and was promptly organized, the Senate
being Republican, and the House Democratic.  During this long session of about eleven months,
nearly every question of political or financial importance in American politics was under discussion,
and I was compelled, by my position on the committees on foreign relations and finance, to
take an active part in the debates.

On the 6th the President sent to Congress his annual message, in which he departed from the
established usage of his predecessors, who had presented in order the subjects commented upon,
commencing with a summary of our relations with foreign nations, and extending to the business
of all the varied departments of the government.

This threatening announcement of a great national danger startled the general public, who had
settled down into the conviction that all was going on very well with a Democratic administration.
The President said that the amount of money annually exacted largely exceeded the expenses
of the government.  This did not seem so great a calamity.  It was rather an evidence of good
times, especially as he could apply the surplus to the reduction of the national debt.

In other words, we had an excess of revenue over expenditures for three years of about $122,000,000.
The sinking fund during that three years, as he informed us, amounted in the aggregate to $138,058,320;
that is, we had stipulated by law to pay of the public debt that sum during three years, and
had been able to pay all we agreed to pay, and had $122,000,000 more.  He did not state that
during and subsequent to the panic of 1873 the United States did not pay the sinking fund,
and this deficiency was made good during the prosperous years that followed 1879.  Upon the
facts stated by him he based his extraordinary message.  The only recommendation made by him
was a reduction of taxation.  No reference to the vast interests intrusted to departments other
than the treasury was made by him except in a brief paragraph.

I have a sincere respect for President Cleveland, but I thought the message was so grave a
departure from the customary annual message of the President to Congress that it ought to be
answered seriatim.  I did so in a carefully prepared speech.  The answer made can be condensed
in a few propositions:  An increase of revenue (the law remaining unchanged) is an evidence
of unusual trade and prosperity.  The surplus revenue, whatever it might be, could and ought
to be applied to the reduction of the public debt.  The law under which the debt was created
provided for this, by requiring a certain percentage of the debt to be paid annually, and appropriating
the surplus revenue for that purpose.  Under this policy it was estimated that the debt would
be paid off prior to 1907.

But experience soon demonstrated that, whatever might be the law in force, the revenues of
the government would vary from year to year, depending, not upon rates of taxation, but upon
the financial condition of the country.  After the panic of 1873, the revenues were so reduced
that the sinking fund was practically suspended by the fact that there was no surplus money
in the treasury to meet its requirements.  At periods of prosperity the revenues were in excess
of the current expenses and the sinking fund, and in such conditions the entire surplus revenue,
was applied to the reduction of the public debt and thus made good the deficiency in the sinking
fund in times of financial stringency.  This was a wise public policy, fully understood and
acted upon by every Secretary of the Treasury since the close of the war and prior to Mr. Manning.

Another rule of action, founded upon the clearest public policy, had been observed prior to
the incumbency of Mr. Cleveland, and that was not to hold in the treasury any form of money
in excess of a reasonable balance, in addition to the fund held to secure the redemption of
United States notes.  All sums in excess of these were promptly applied to the payment of the
public debt, and, if none of it was redeemable, securities of the United States were purchased
in the open market.  It was the desire of Congress and every Republican Secretary of the Treasury,
in order to comply with the sinking fund law, to apply the surplus to the gradual reduction
of the debt.  While I was secretary I heartily co-operated with the committees of Congress
in reducing appropriations, and in this way was enabled to maintain the reserve, and to reduce
the interest- bearing public debt.

The policy of Mr. Cleveland and Secretary Manning was to hoard in the treasury as much of the
currency of the country as possible, amounting sometimes to more than $200,000,000, and this
created a stringency which affected injuriously the business of the country. It was the policy
of all the early Presidents to apply any surplus revenue either to the reduction of the public
debt or to public objects.

Mr. Jefferson, in his message of 1806, says:  "To what object shall the surplus be appropriated?
Shall we suppress the impost, and thus give that advantage to foreign over domestic manufacturers?"
He believed that the patriotism of the people would "prefer its continuance and application
for the purpose of the public education, roads, rivers and canals."  This was in exact opposition
to the policy proposed by Mr. Cleveland, who refused to apply the surplus revenue to the reduction
of the debt, and in his extraordinary message demanded a reduction of duties on foreign goods.
A larger surplus revenue had frequently, from time to time, been wisely dealt with by Republican
administrations.  It had either been applied by the executive authorities to the payment of
the public debt, or its accumulation had been prevented by Congress, from time to time, by
the reduction or repeal of taxes.  In the administration of each of Mr. Cleveland's predecessors
since the close of the war, this simple remedy had been applied without neglecting other matters,
or raising a cry of alarm.  It was apparent that the object of the President was to force the
reduction of duties on imported goods, which came into competition with domestic products,
and that the accumulation of money in the treasury was resorted to as a means to compel such
a reduction.

On the 19th of July, 1886, I had called the attention of the Senate to the difficulty and danger
of hoarding in the treasury surplus revenue, and the readiness of the Senate to provide for
the reduction of taxes and the application of the surplus.  The revenues could have been reduced
without endangering domestic industries.  At the date of his extraordinary message both Houses
of Congress were quite ready to reduce taxes.  Full authority had been given to the Secretary
of the Treasury to apply surplus revenue to the purchase of United States bonds.  But the President,
set in his opinion, was not satisfied with such measures, but demanded the reduction of duties
which protected American industries.

The greater part of my speech in reply to the President's message was a discussion of the different
forms of taxation imposed by the United States and especially the duties imposed on imported
goods. I never was an extreme protectionist.  I believed in the imposition of such a duty on
foreign goods which could be produced in the United States as would fairly measure the difference
in the cost of labor and manufacture in this and foreign countries.  This was a question not
to be decided by interested capitalists, but by the careful estimate of business men.  The
intense selfishness exhibited by many of those who demanded protection, and the error of those
who opposed all protection, were alike to be disregarded.

I believe that no judicious tariff can be framed by Congress alone, without the help of a commission
of business men not personally interested in the subject-matter, and they should be aided by
experienced officers in the revenue service.  I have participated in a greater or less degree
in the framing of every tariff law for forty years.  I have spoken many times on the subject
in the Senate and on the rostrum.  My reply to the President's message is the best exposition
I have made as to the principles and details of a protective tariff.  If I had my way I would
convene such a tariff commission as I have discussed, give it ample time to hear and gain all
information that could aid it, and require it to report the rates of duty proposed in separate
schedules so that the rate of each schedule or paragraph might be raised or lowered from time
to time to meet the wants of the treasury.  If Congress would allow such a bill to become a
law we could dismiss the tariff free from party politics and lay the foundation for a durable
system of national taxation, upon which domestic industries may be founded without the hazard
which they now encounter every year or two by "tinkering with the tariff."

The real controversy raised by the President's message was not whether taxes should be reduced,
but what taxes should be reduced or abolished.  I stated the position of the two parties in
a debate with Mr. McKenna, as follows;

"There is a broad line of division between the two parties as they exist now and as they will
exist in the future.  The President says, 'retain all internal taxes and reduce the duties
on imported merchandise that comes in competition with home industries.'  We say we will not
strike down any prospering industry in this country; that where manufactures have sprung up
in our midst by aid of a duty, this protection, as you call it, we will not reduce; we will
not derange contracts, industries, or plans, or lower the prices of labor, or compel laborers
or manufacturers to meet any sudden change or emergency.  We say that we are willing to join
with you in reducing the taxes.  We will select those taxes that bear most heavily upon the
people, especially internal taxes, and repeal those.  We will maintain the policy of protection
by tariff duties just as long as it is necessary to give our people the benefit of a home market,
and diversified productions a fair chance in the trade and commerce of our country, but we
will not invite into our country foreign importations to compete with and break down our home
industries."

The bill entitled "A bill to reduce taxation and simplify the laws in relation to the collection
of the revenue," known as the Mills bill, was the outcome of the President's message.  It was
reported to the House of Representatives by Roger Q. Mills, of Texas, and thus obtained its
name.  Mr. Mills, on the 17th of April, called it up for consideration, and it was debated
and amended, and passed the House on the 21st of July, more than seven months after the President's
cry of alarm, by the close vote of 162 yeas to 149 nays.  Samuel J. Randall, then absent and
sick, desired his colleague to pair him against the bill, as, if present, he would record his
vote in opposition to the bill.  It came to the Senate and was referred to the committee on
finance.  On the 8th of October Mr. Allison, from that committee, reported back the Mills bill
with a substitute for the entire bill.  This substitute was a careful and elaborate protective
tariff bill, containing some provisions I did not approve, but, in its general provisions,
was, in my opinion, a far better bill than the Mills bill.  The debate on these rival bills
continued until the close of the session on the 19th of October, when the Senate, by a resolution,
authorized and directed the committee on finance to continue during the recess of Congress
the investigation of such revenue measures, including the Senate and House bills, as had been
referred to the Senate.

The history of the bills during the second session of this Congress is easily told.  They were
debated in the Senate nearly every day until the 22nd of January, 1889, when the amendment
of the Senate was adopted as a substitute for the entire Mills bill, by the close vote of 32
yeas to 30 nays.  It was debated in the House of Representatives and referred to its committee
of ways and means. It was reported by the committee to the House of Representatives, with a
resolution declaring that the action of the Senate in substituting an entire bill for the House
bill was in violation of the constitution.  No action was taken on this resolution, and then
all tariff legislation was defeated for that Congress.

On the 6th of March, 1888, Senator Beck made a rambling speech commencing with a fierce denunciation
of a bill then pending to grant pensions to certain disabled soldiers of the Union army.  He
then veered off on the tariff and the great trusts created by it. I ventured, in a mild-mannered
way, to suggest to him a doubt whether trusts were caused by the tariff, whether they did not
exist as to domestic as well as to foreign productions.  I named to him the whisky trust, the
cotton-seed trust and other trusts of that kind, and wanted to know how these grew out of the
tariff. Thereupon he changed his ground and took up the silver question and commenced assailing
me for the coinage act of 1873, saying I was responsible for it.  He said it was secretly passed,
surreptitiously done, that I did it, that I knew it.

I promptly replied to that charge by showing from the records that the act referred to, and
especially the part of it relating to the silver dollar, was recommended by Mr. Boutwell, the
Secretary of the Treasury, and all the officers connected with coinage and the mints, that
it was debated at great length for three successive sessions in both Houses, that it was printed
thirteen times, and that the clause omitting the old silver dollar was especially considered
and the policy of it fully debated, and a substitute for the old dollar was provided for by
each House.  I can say with confidence that every Member of the Senate but Beck felt that he
had been worsted in the debate, and that the charge aimed at me, but which equally applied
to Morrill and Bayard, and especially to all the Senators from the silver states who earnestly
and actively supported the bill, was thoroughly refuted.

Senator Beck, chafed by his defeat, on the 13th of March made in the Senate a three hours'
speech in support of his position. Instead of going to the public records and showing by them
whether or not the law was put through the Senate in a secret way, he quoted what several Senators
and Members said they did not know, what Grant did not know, a mode of argument that if of
effect would invalidate the great body of the legislation of Congress.

I replied in a speech occupying less than half an hour, producing the original bill as it came
from the treasury department with the dollar omitted from the silver coins, with the report
of the Secretary of the Treasury calling attention to its omission, and the opinion of Knox,
LInderman, Patterson, Elliott, all of whom were prominent officers of the treasury department
in charge of currency and coinage, giving fully the reasons why the old silver dollar was omitted.
I also quoted from the records of each House of Congress, showing that special attention was
called to the omission of the old silver dollar by Mr. Hooper, having charge of the bill. 
The House of Representatives, in compliance with the advice of Comptroller Knox, did authorize
in its bill, which it passed, a subsidiary dollar containing 384 grains of standard silver,
the same weight as two half dollars, but these dollars were, like the subsidiary fractional
coins, a legal tender for only five dollars.  When this bill came to the Senate it was thoroughly
debated.  The legislature of California petitioned Congress for a silver dollar weighing more
than the Mexican dollar instead of the subsidiary dollar provided for by the House.  In compliance
with this petition, the Senate so amended the bill as to authorize the owner of silver bullion
to deposit the same at any mint, to be formed into bars or into dollars of the weight of 420
grains, designated as "trade dollars."  These dollars were intended solely for the foreign
trade, and were worth in the market only the value of 420 grains of standard silver.  It was
the dollar desired by the silver producing states, and but for the rapid decline in the price
of silver, which made this dollar worth less than its face in gold, the mint would probably
be coining them to-day; but before the mint was closed to their coinage more than 35,000,000
pieces had been made.  No unprejudiced persons could claim that the charges of Mr. Beck were
not completely answered.

On the 23rd of March Chief Justice Waite, of the Supreme Court of the United States, died at
his residence in Washington.  Upon the 27th, upon my motion, the Senate adopted a resolution
that a committee of five Senators be appointed by the chair, whose duty it should be to accompany
the remains of the chief justice to Toledo, in the State of Ohio, and attend the funeral there.
The committee appointed were Messrs. Sherman, Allison, Evarts, George and Gray.  They attended
the funeral as directed.  Chief Justice Waite was born in Connecticut, but lived all his manhood
life in Toledo, Ohio, until appointed by President Grant as chief justice. He was an able lawyer
and a patient, conscientious and learned judge.

After a brief debate, participated in by Senators Morgan, Stewart, Mitchell and others, I made
a few remarks, commencing as follows:

"Whatever differences there may have been in the Senate or in the country, with regard to the
restriction of Chinese immigration, the time has come when I believe the general sentiment
of the people is, that the law on the subject should be fairly enforced; that the Chinese laborer
should be excluded from enjoying the benefits of our country, because he will not adapt himself
to the civilization of our country.  That feeling is most strongly expressed by Senators and
Representatives from the Pacific coast, among whom the 100,000 or more Chinese in the country
live, and they have expressed that opinion to the committee on foreign relations so decidedly
and unanimously, and supported by such potent reasons, that I believe every member of that
committee is of the opinion that the object of the law to exclude the immigration of Chinese
laborers should be effectively carried out."

The resolution was adopted.

During this Congress the question of excluding Chinese immigration by treaty and by law was
pending and copiously debated.  There seemed to be a general concurrence that such immigration
was not desirable, and that Chinese coolies should be absolutely excluded. A treaty was negotiated
providing for such exclusion, but, as there was a long dely by the Chinese government in ratifying
it, and the coolies still continued to come, bills were introduced in Congress prohibiting,
under severe penalties, the immigration of all Chinese laborers.  Before the bill became a
law the treaty was ratified. Now, both by treaty and by law, such immigrants are excluded,
but in spite of law and treaty they still come in lessening numbers, and it does not appear
how they can be entirely excluded.  I have been in favor of the exclusion of Chinese laborers
when practically they are slaves, but have sought to moderate the legislation proposed, so
as not to disturb our friendly relations with China, or to exclude educated Chinamen engaged
in commercial pursuits.

On the 18th of April I made a speech on a bill for the admission of Dakota, as a state, into
the Union.  That territory had more than the usual population of a new state, but its admission
had been postponed, year after year, by the action of the Democratic party.  This speech led
to a long debate between Mr. Vest and myself on the election in Louisiana in 1876.  It is not
an unusual occurrence to change the subject of discussion in the Senate where debate is unlimited.
I made a long review of the events in Louisiana, mainly in reply to a question put by Mr. Vest
as follows:

"I have never understood, and the people of this country have never been able to understand,
why Packard was not elected governor with a larger number of votes than Hayes received for
President.  But Packard was thrown out and sent as consul to Liverpool, and Hayes was sworn
in as President of the United States."

To this I replied that the returning board was invested with the power to pass upon the election
of electors and they did perform that duty, but the question of the election of a governor
and a legislature of Louisiana could only be passed upon by the legislature itself, each house
being the judge of its own elections, and the two houses, when organized, had the sole and
exclusive power to pass upon the election of a governor.  This condition of affairs led to
a controversy which endangered the public peace and involved the use of United States troops
to prevent civil war.  President Hayes thereupon had selected five gentlemen, Charles B. Lawrence,
Joseph R. Hawley, John M. Harlan, John C. Brown and Wayne MacVeagh, each of whom was a man
of marked distinction in the community in which he lived.  They were sent to Louisiana to inquire
and report upon the existing condition of affairs bordering on a state of civil war between
the opposing factions.  They were instructed to promote, as far as possible, the organization
of a legislature, so that it might pass upon the question of who was governor of the state.
The result of their inquiry led to the organization of the legislature, and when so organized
it recognized Nichols as Governor of Louisiana, as it clearly had the right to do.  The returning
board had the unquestioned right to pass upon the election of electors for President, but it
was equally clear that the legislature was invested with the sole power of passing upon the
election of the governor.  The returning board certified to the election of the Hayes electors,
and the legislature determined that Nichols was elected governor.  Although these decisions
were inconsistent with each other yet each was legal and binding.  I took occasion in this
speech to defend the action of the returning board, and especially the two leading members,
J. Madison Wells and Thomas A. Anderson, both of whom were men of high character and standing
in that state.

In the course of this debate Vest and Butler charged me with inconsistency in my speeches at
Nashville and Springfield.  This allegation had been frequently made in the newspapers of the
time. In reply I said:

"I am much obliged to my friend from Missouri for his kindness in reading extracts from my
speeches.  They sound much better to me read by him than when spoken by myself.  The speeches
speak for themselves, particularly the one at Nashville.  Every word I uttered on that night
I utter now.  If I could repeat it over, I would add emphasis to give force and effect to it,
and so I feel about the south.  I have not the slightest feeling of hostility against the south,
and no desire in regard to it, except to preserve and protect the rights of all the people
of the south.

"Now, in regard to my speech at Springfield, every word of that is true.  Why does not the
Senator dispute some fact stated in that speech?  That was a review made to a legislature--indeed,
both speeches were made to legislative assemblies, dignified and honorable men.  I was speaking
in sight of the monument of Lincoln; I was recalling the incidents of Lincoln's life, the period
of the war, and referred, of course, to the Democratic party north and south. I could not truthfully
draw a more flattering picture.  The one was a speech as to the future to men who, I believed,
were hopefully looking forward to the disappearance of the feelings of the war. The other was
a recapitulation and review of the past.  Every word of it was true.  If the Senator can point
out the inconsistency in these speeches, he will oblige me.  There is not a single word in
one inconsistent with the other.  I did denounce the course of the Democratic party north and
south, during and since the war, especially in regard to the reconstruction measures.  I did,
at Nashville, speak hopefully, and I feel hopefully, of the future, but it is only upon the
basis of the recognized rights of every American citizen."

On the 16th of July I made a speech in favor of the passage of a bill for the erection of a
monument to General George Rogers Clark, of the American Revolution.  His march through the
wilderness and attack upon the British posts in the northwestern territory was one of the most
brilliant events in the Revolutionary War.  The bill passed the Senate and was reported to
the House, but was not acted upon.  It is one of the obligations of honor and duty which, I
trust, will be discharged by the United States before many years.

On the 24th of August a message from the President, in regard to the fishing rights of the
United States, was read in the Senate. I moved that the message be referred to the committee
on foreign relations.  Before this motion was put an extended debate took place mainly between
Senators Edmunds and Morgan, though several other Senators took part.  I made a speech expressing
my opinion of the President's position on the fishery question, and then took occasion to refer
to the surplus in the treasury in the following words:

"It seems to me that the position taken by the President is a good deal like that held by him
as to the payment of the public debt. My former old and honored colleague [Mr. Thurman] is
going around through the country talking about surplus money in the treasury, there accumulated
all because we Republicans will not let it out. Of all the financial management that I have
read or know of, the worst is that by the present administration.  Here there was an accumulating
surplus in the treasury, day by day and year by year, since the first day Mr. Cleveland entered
the presidential chair. What did he do with that surplus revenue?  He did not make proclamation
of it for two or three years, but let it accumulate and accumulate until he did not know what
to do with it.  Finally the attention of the administration was called to the fact that they
ought to buy bonds with it.  Well, Mr. Cleveland, with his sharp construction, thought he had
not the power to buy bonds; he thought he could not do it legally.  The law confers the power
upon the Secretary of the Treasury.

"The President had no more power over it than the Senator from Connecticut before me [Mr. Platt]
has.  The law confers it upon the secretary; it was his duty to buy bonds.  What untold sums
have been lost by his failure to comply with that law.  Until recently, during nearly all the
administration of Mr. Cleveland, the four per cent. bonds have been sold in the market about
123.  I have here the American almanac giving the value of the four per cent. bonds during
his administration, and they have usually sold at 123. If the United States had quietly watched
its opportunities in the way the present secretary's predecessors had done, he could have gone
into the market and absorbed those bonds, to the amount of half a million or a million at a
time, and bought them at the market price, 123, and then how much money would have been saved
to the government of the United States.

"My former colleague says they have over $100,000,000 of surplus. If they had applied that
one hundred million in the purchase of bonds they would have saved four per cent. per annum
for three years--that is, twelve per cent.  And besides, they would have saved six or seven
per cent. lost by the advance of bonds.  At any time during the administration of Mr. Cleveland,
if his Secretary of the Treasury had exercised the power conferred on him by the law, he might
have saved the government of the United States from twelve to sixteen per cent. on the whole
hundred million of dollars, if he had invested it in bonds of the United States.  But he would
not do it because he had not the power.  So the President sent to Congress and asked for power,
just as he has done in this case, when he had ample power, and both Houses declared unanimously
that he had the power, and then, after the bonds had gone up to 127 or 128, when he had lost
three years' interest on a large portion of this accumulation, he commenced to buy bonds and
complains that they are too high, and that he calls wise financial management.

"So now here is a law, on the statute book for over a year, to enforce a demand on the Canadian
authorities that our fishermen, who are there carrying on their hazardous enterprise, should
have the right to enter the port of Halifax and ship their goods under the plain provisions
of the treaty or the law, and, if that right was denied, then here was the law expressly prepared
for the particular case, to authorize the President not to do any violent act of retaliation,
not to involve us in any dangerous or delusive measure which would excite the public mind and
probably create animosities between these two great countries.  But suppose he had simply said:
'Well, if you deny to the Yankee fishermen the right to transship their fish, we deny you the
right to bring fresh fish into Maine, Boston, and New York, and scatter them all over, cured
by ice,' for that is the effect of it--ice takes the place of salt."

My allusion to the finances as usual excited the ire of Mr. Beck, who said:

"The Senator from Ohio gets away from the treaty and talks about this administration not buying
bonds and how much we could have saved because they have raised the price; but I want to say
that he himself was the man, both as Secretary of the Treasury and as chairman of the committee
on finance, who arranged our debts in such a way that we could not pay them."

In my reply I again called attention to the fact that the House, of which Mr. Beck was a Member
at the time of the passage of the four per cent. bond bill, and not the Senate, was responsible
for the long period of the bonds.  I said:

"The Senator from Kentucky says I am responsible for the fact that there is the prolonged period
of thirty years to the four per cent. bonds.  He knows, because he was here the other day when
I showed from the public record, that the Senate of the United States proposed to pass a bill
to issue bonds running only twenty years, with the right of redemption after ten years; and
if the law had been passed in that form in which it was sent from the Senate none of this trouble
would have existed; but it was changed by the House of Representatives, of which the Senator
from Kentucky was then a Member.  I believe he voted for the House proposition against the
Senate proposition, by which the time was extended to thirty years, and they were not redeemable
during that time.  Yet I am charged with the responsibility of lengthening these bonds.

"Whatever my sins, I can claim to have always favored the right to redeem the bonds of the
United States as the 5-20's and the 10-40's were issued to be redeemed; and if I had had my
way we would have had the same kind of bonds issued instead of the thirty-year bonds."

The relation of Canada with the United States, especially in connection with the fisheries,
became at this period dangerously strained.  This led me, on the 18th of September, to offer
in the Senate the following resolution:

"Resolved, That the committee on foreign relations be directed to inquire into, and report
at the next session of Congress, the state of the relations of the United States with Great
Britain and the Dominion of Canada, with such measures as are expedient to promote friendly
commercial and political intercourse between these countries and the United States, and for
that purpose have leave to sit during the recess of Congress."

In support of this resolution I said in opening:

"The recent message of the President recommending a line of retaliation against the Dominion
of Canada involves the consideration of our relations with that country in a far more important
and comprehensive way than Congress has ever before been called upon to give.  The recent treaty
rejected by the Senate related to a single subject, affecting alone our treaty rights on her
northeastern coast.  The act of retaliation of 1887 was confined to the same subject-matter.
This message, however, treats of matters extending across the continent, affecting commercial
relations with every state and territory on our northern boundary.  Under these circumstances
I feel it is my duty to present my views of all these cognate subjects, and in doing so I feel
bound to discard, as far as possible, all political controversy, for in dealing with foreign
relations, and especially those with our nearest neighbor, we should think only of our country
and not of our party."

The real difficulty of dealing with Canada is its dependence on Great Britain.  Our negotiations
must be with the English government, while the matters complained of are purely Canadian, and
the consent of Canada is necessary to the ratification of any treaty.  The President complained
that Canadian authorities and officers denied to our fishermen the common privileges freely
granted to friendly nations to enter their ports and harbors, to purchase supplies and transship
commodities.  He said that they subjected our citizens, engaged in fishing enterprises in waters
adjacent to their northeastern shore, to numerous vexatious interferences and annoyances, had
seized and sold their vessels upon slight pretexts, and had otherwise treated them in a rude,
harsh, and oppressive manner.

I agreed with the President in his arraignment of the Canadian authorities for denying to our
fishing vessels the benefit of the enlightened measures adopted in later years by commercial
nations, especially by the United States and Great Britain.  We admitted fish free of duty
into our country, while Canada refused to our fishermen the right to purchase bait and other
supplies in Canadian ports, thus preventing our fishermen from competing with the Canadians
on the open sea.  The President undertook, by treaty, to correct this injustice, but the Senate
thought that the provisions of the treaty were not adequate for that purpose, and declined
to ratify it.  He thereupon recommended that Congress provide certain measures of retaliation,
which, in the opinion of the Senate, would have inflicted greater injury to the United States
than to Canada. This honest difference of opinion, not based upon party lines, opened up the
consideration of all our commercial relations with Canada.  The speech made by me dealt with
the policy of the United States with Canada in the past and for the future, and led me to the
expression of my opinion that Canada should be, and would be, represented in the parliament
of Great Britain or the Congress of the United States, with the expression of my hope of its
being annexed to our country.  I said:

"And now I submit if the time has not come when the people of the United States and Canada
should take a broader view of their relations to each other than has heretofore seemed practicable.
Our whole history, since the conquest of Canada by Great Britain in 1763, has been a continuous
warning that we cannot be at peace with each other except by a political as well as commercial
union. The fate of Canada should have followed the fortunes of the colonies in the American
Revolution.  It would have been better for all, for the mother country as well, if all this
continent north of Mexico had participated in the formation, and shared in common the blessings
and prosperity of the American Union.

"So, evidently, our fathers thought, for among the earliest military movements by the Continental
Congress was the expedition for the occupation of Canada, and the capture of the British forces
in Montreal and Quebec.  The story of the failure of the expedition, the heroism of Arnold
and Burr, the death of Montgomery, and the fearful suffering borne by the Continental forces
in the march and retreat, is familiar to every student of American history.  The native population
of Canada were then friendly to our cause, and hundreds of them, as refugees, followed our
retiring forces and shared in the subsequent dangers and triumphs of the war.  It was the earnest
desire of Franklin, Adams, and Jay, at the treaty of peace, to secure the consent of Great
Britain to allow Canada to form a part of the United States, and at one time it appeared possible,
but for the influence of France and Spain, then the acknowledged sovereigns of large parts
of the territory now included within the United States.  The present status of Canada grew
out of the activities and acquisitions of European powers after the discovery of this continent.
Spain, France, and England especially desired to acquire political jurisdiction over this newly
discovered country.

"Without going into the details so familiar to the Senate, it is sufficient to say that Spain
held Florida, France held all west of the Mississippi, Mexico held Texas west to the Pacific,
and England held Canada.  The United States held, subject to the Indian title, only the region
between the Mississippi and the Atlantic.  The statesmen of this government early discerned
the fact that it was impossible that Spain, France, and Mexico should hold the territory then
held by them without serious detriment to the interests and prosperity of the United States,
and without the danger that was always present of conflicts with the European powers maintaining
governments in contiguous territory.  It was a wise policy and a necessity to acquire these
vast regions and add them to this country. They were acquired and are now held.

"Precisely the same considerations apply to Canada, with greater force.  The commercial conditions
have vastly changed within twenty- four years.  Railroads have been built across the continent
in our own country and in Canada.  The seaboard is of such a character, and its geographical
situation is such on both oceans, that perfect freedom as to transportation is absolutely essential,
not only to the prosperity of the two countries, but to the entire commerce of the world; and
as far as the interests of the two people are concerned, they are divided by a mere imaginary
line.  They live next door neighbors to each other, and there should be a perfect freedom of
intercourse between them.

"A denial of that intercourse, or the withholding of it from them, rests simply and wholly
upon the accident that a European power, one hundred years ago, was able to hold that territory
against us; but her interest has practically passed away and Canada has become an independent
government to all intents and purposes, as much so as Texas was after she separated herself
from Mexico.  So that all the considerations that entered into the acquisition of Florida,
Louisiana, and the Pacific coast and Texas, apply to Canada, greatly strengthened by the changed
condition of commercial relations and matters of transportation.  These intensify not only
the propriety, but the absolute necessity, of both a commercial and a political union between
Canada and the United States."

This was my opinion then, but further reflection convinces me that the annexation of Canada
to the United States presents serious difficulties, and that the best policy for the other
English-speaking countries is that Canada should constitute an independent republic, founded
upon the model of the United States, with one central government, and provinces converted into
states with limited powers for local governments.  The United States already embraces so vast
a country, divided into forty-four states and four territories, exclusive of Alaska and the
Indian Territory, that any addition to the number of states would tend to weaken the system,
and the conversion of the provinces of Canada into states of our Union would introduce new
elements of discord, while with Canada as an independent and friendly republic we could, by
treaties or concurrent legislation, secure to each the benefit of free trade and intercourse
with the other, and without the danger of weakening the United States.  Great Britain, the
common mother of both republics, could take pride in her progeny and be relieved from the cares
and controversies that have arisen and will arise in her guardianship of Canada.  Her policy
in recent years has been to surrender, as much as possible, her legislative power over Canada,
but, as Canada is not represented in parliament and cannot be represented by a minister at
Washington, the spectacle of a British minister of the highest rank engaged in an effort to
negotiate a treaty for the benefit of Canada about bait and fish and fisheries, imposing restrictions
of trade in direct opposition to the policy of the mother country.  This condition of Canada
constantly invites a breach of the peace between the United States and Great Britain, but with
Canada governed by a parliament and by local assemblies in the provinces on a plan similar
to our own, the two republics would be independent of each other, and could arrange their matters
without any other country to interfere.

There were many other measures of interest and importance in the discussing and framing of
which I participated at this session, but as this is not a general history of Congress, I do
not deem it necessary to mention them in detail.

While Congress was in session the people of the United States were greatly interested in the
choice of a candidate for President. Conventions were held, votes were taken and preferences
expressed in every state.  It was settled early in the year that a large majority of the delegates
from Ohio would support me for President, and several weeks before the convention was held
it was announced that I would receive the unanimous support of the delegates from Ohio.  The
Democratic party nominated Grover Cleveland and Allen G. Thurman for President and Vice President.

The Republican state convention was held at Dayton, Ohio, on the 18th and 19th of April, and
selected Foraker, Foster, McKinley and Butterworth as delegates at large to the national convention.
Forty-two delegates were nominated by the twenty-one districts, and all of them were known
to favor my nomination.  The convention unanimously adopted this resolution:

"Seventh.  The Republicans of Ohio recognize the merits, services and abilities of the statesmen
who have been mentioned for the Republican nomination for the presidency, and, loyal to anyone
who may be selected, present John Sherman to the country as eminently qualified and fitted
for the duties of that exalted office, and the delegates to the Republican national convention
this day selected are directed to use all honorable means to secure his nomination as President
of the United States."

The speeches made at the convention by the delegates at large, and by other members, expressed
without qualification the hearty and unanimous support of my nomination.  The condition upon
which alone I would become a candidate for so exalted a position as President of the United
States had been complied with, and I therefore felt that I might fairly aspire to the nomination.
Mr. Blaine had declined it on account of his health, and no one was named who had a longer
record of public service than I had.

The movement for my nomination was heartily indorsed by the people of Ohio and was kindly received
in the different states.  Many of the leading newspapers assumed that it was assured.  Sketches
of my life, full of errors, appeared.  My old friend, Rev. S. A. Bronson, issued a new edition
of his "Life of John Sherman." Comments favorable and unfavorable, some of them libelous, appeared
in print.  Mrs. Sherman, much more sensitive than I of calumny, begged me not to be a candidate,
as the office of President had killed Lincoln and Garfield, and the effort to attain it had
broken down Webster, Clay and Blaine, and would do the same with me. However, I remained at
my duties in Washington as calmly awaiting the action of the Chicago convention as any one
of my associates in the Senate.  I read the daily reports of what was to be--"that I was to
be nominated on the first ballot," and "that I had no chance whatever," and became alike indifferent
as to the one or the other result.

Shortly after the Ohio convention, I was invited to attend a banquet of the Americus club at
the Monongahela House, in Pittsburg, on the 28th of April, at which Senator Harrison and Colonel
Fred. Grant were guests.  The lobby of the hotel looked as if a political convention was in
session, many prominent men from Pennsylvania and other states being present.

At the banquet I was called upon to respond to the toast "Grant; He Was Great to the End."
I insert a portion of my remarks:

"I saw General Grant when he arrived in Washington.  He soon took command of the Army of the
Potomac.  His plan of campaign was soon formed.  His objective point was Lee's army.  Where
Lee went he went, and if Lee moved too slowly Grant flanked him.  After the fearful and destructive
battles of the Wilderness, Washburne wanted to carry some consoling message to Lincoln, and
Grant wrote 'I propose to fight it out on this line if it takes all summer.'  And so he did,
and all winter.  He never loosed his tenacious grip of Lee's army until Lee surrendered at
Appomattox.  If you ask me the secret of his success I say tenacity, tenacity.  He never was
discouraged.  He knew how to hold on.  And when his object was attained, and not till then,
he knew how to be generous.

"He carried the same traits into civil life.  He was always the same plain, simple, confiding,
brave, tenacious and generous man in war and peace, as when the leader of vast armies, President
of the United States, the guest of kings and emperors, and in his final struggle with grim-visaged
death.  Gentlemen, you do right to commemorate his birthday.  It was his good fortune to be
the chief instrument of Divine Power to secure to you and your posterity the blessing of a
free, strong and united country.  He was heroic to the end, and you should be equally heroic
in maintaining and preserving the rights and privileges and policy for which he contended.

* * * * *

"I deem it an honor to be called upon by your club, on this sixty- sixth anniversary of the
birthday of General Grant, to present in brief words this typical American citizen, this illustrious
soldier, this patriotic President.  By his tenacious courage and skill the armies of the Union
were led from victory to victory, from Belmont to Appomattox, until every enemy of the republic
laid down his arms in unconditional surrender.  He won from foreign nations reparation for
injuries done to us during the war.  He did more than anyone else to preserve untarnished the
public credit and honor.  Heroic to the end, in the hours of death he won his greatest victory
by the story of his life, told in words so plain, truthful, charitable and eloquent that it
will become as classic as the commentaries of Caesar, but more glorious as the record of a
patriot who saved his country, instead of a conqueror who overthrew its liberties.  When speaking
of General Grant I do not know where to begin and where to end, whether with his personal traits
of character, his achievements as a commander of armies, or his services as an untried magistrate
in civil life; I can only make a mere reference to each of these elements of his fame."

During the whole of the month of May I remained in Washington, and attended constantly the
sessions of the Senate.  I was greatly interrupted by visits of persons from different parts
of the country, who wished to converse with me in regard to the approaching convention.  I
treated them kindly, but referred them to General Raum for any information he could give them.
I was called to New York on the 8th of June, to attend a meeting of the directors of the Fort
Wayne Railway Company.  I stopped at the Fifth Avenue hotel, where great numbers of politicians
called upon me, but I was charged with having interviews with many persons whom I did not see.
I met the leading politicians of the state, including ex- Senator Platt, Senators Hiscock and
Quay, Charles Emory Smith, of Philadelphia, and many others.  The newspapers had a good many
alleged interviews which never occurred.  I then became satisfied that I would not probably
receive more than five or six of the votes of the New York delegation, as they had generally
committed themselves to Mr. Depew, who was understood to be a candidate.

It was already asserted in the papers that I would not be nominated, but that Blaine would
be, in spite of his declination in his Florence and Paris letters.  Among others, this was
asserted by Judge West, of Ohio.  Governor Foraker, who was at the head of the Ohio delegation
to Chicago, was reported to have said in reply to West:

"I do not attach much importance to Judge West's recent speech. He is not a delegate this year,
and he only speaks for himself. Mr. Sherman will have the united and hearty support of the
delegates from this state, and I think his nomination is reasonably assured. I received a letter
from him yesterday in which he expressed himself as being very confident of getting the nomination.
It certainly looks that way to me."

"How do you account for the circulation of the reports that you are not entirely loyal to Sherman?"

"I suppose they originated in the breasts of mischief-makers who would like to make trouble.
There never was the slightest foundation for them.  I have paid no heed to them, for if my
character is not sufficiently established in this state to make my attitude towards Mr. Sherman
perfectly clear, nothing I could say would alter the situation.  It has been practically settled
that General Hastings, the adjutant general of Pennsylvania, will present Mr. Sherman's name
to the convention.  He is an excellent speaker, and will, no doubt, acquit himself with credit.
Yes, I shall probably make the speech seconding his nomination from this state.  It is customary,
I believe, to have a candidate presented by a delegate from some other state than his own,
and in Sherman's case it seems eminently proper that he should be presented in this way, as
he is in such a broad sense a national candidate."

There was a common opinion prevailing that the relations of Blaine and myself were not friendly.
This was a grave mistake.  We had never had any controversy of a personal character.

Prior to our state convention, while Mr. Blaine was abroad, I wrote to a friend of his, who
was with him, that if Blaine desired to be a candidate I would withdraw and advocate his nomination.
This letter was handed to Murat Halstead, who was about to proceed to Europe.  He showed it
to Blaine, who insisted that he could not and would not be a candidate, and wrote a letter
to B. F. Jones, chairman of the Republican national committee, in which he stated, in terms
that could not be mistaken, his position in regard to the presidency, and settled for good
the question of his candidacy. In neither of his previous epistles did he state positively
he would not accept the nomination if tendered him.  In the letter to Chairman Jones this declaration
was most emphatically made.  Under no circumstances, Mr. Blaine said, would he permit the use
of his name in Chicago, nor would he accept a presidential nomination unanimously tendered
him.  He further went on to say that Senator John Sherman was his preference, and advised the
convention to place his name at the head of the Republican national ticket.

Mr. Halstead said to a correspondent of the New York "World," in regard to Mr. Blaine's position,
that he had achieved the greatest place in our political history--above that of Henry Clay--that
the nomination would have come to him unsought, but he had smothered any personal ambition
he may have had for the good of his party. Mr. Blaine's name, he declared, would not come before
the Chicago convention as a candidate in any contingency we have a right to assume.  "Mr. Blaine
told me," he said, "when I met him in Europe in August last, that he was not a Tichborne claimant
for the presidency, and he wanted his friends to understand it.  Mr. Blaine will have as distinguished
a place in history as he could have obtained had he been elected to the presidency."

Mr. Blaine was asked:  "Do you think Mr. Sherman could be elected?"

He replied:  "Mr. Sherman represents the principles of the Republican party from its beginning.
He has never wavered in his allegiance to the party.  If we cannot elect a man on the principles
of the Republican party we will not be able to pull anyone through on personal popularity.
I think Mr. Sherman is as strong as the Republican party, and that if nominated he can be elected,
and also that he has great personal strength."

In reply to the question, "Will the Ohio delegates remain true to Sherman?" Mr. Blaine said:
"Of that there can be no doubt.  They are riveted and double-bolted to him.  The talk of Foraker's
scheming for himself is nonsense and malice.  Foraker is a young man and has a great future
before him.  He may go to the Senate and be President later on.  No, the Garfield miracle cannot
be repeated this year.  It is impossible."

The convention met at Chicago on the 19th of June.  The delegation from Ohio was promptly in
attendance, and was to all appearances united, and determined to carry out the instructions
and requests of the state convention to support my nomination.  There appeared to be some needless
delay in the report of the committee on resolutions.  Mr. McKinley, as chairman of the committee,
reported the resolutions and they were unanimously adopted by the convention by a standing
vote amid great enthusiasm.

I was nominated by General D. H. Hastings, of Pennsylvania, in a speech of remarkable power
and eloquence.  When he closed, enthusiastic and prolonged cheering and waving of flags greeted
him from the galleries, which was joined in my many delegations.

Governor Foraker seconded the nomination.  His opening words were: "Ohio is sometimes like
New York.  She occasionally comes to a national Republican convention divided as to her choice
for the presidency, and sometimes she comes united.  She has so come on this occasion.  Her
forty-six delegates are here to speak as one man."  His speech throughout was received with
great applause, and it and that of General Hastings were regarded as the most eloquent nominating
addresses of the convention.  They were followed by speeches made by John M. Langston, of Virginia,
and Mr. Anson, of North Carolina.  There certainly could be no fault found with either the
manner or the matter of these addresses.

There was a constant effort made to produce jealousy between the members of the Ohio delegation,
and perhaps it may be admitted that the natural divisions in a body of forty-six members would
give rise to suspicion and misunderstanding, but I have no right to complain of anything done
by the members of the delegation during the convention.  There was a natural rivalry between
Foraker and McKinley, as they were both young, able and eloquent men.  Rumors prevailed at
times that the Ohio delegation could be held solid no longer, but if there was any ground for
these rumors it did not develop into a breach, as the delegation, from beginning to end, cast
the entire vote of Ohio for me on every ballot except the last two or three, when one of the
delegates, J. B. Luckey, voted for Harrison, placing his action on the ground that he had served
with him in the army and felt bound to vote for him.

On Saturday evening I was telegraphed by different persons that I would certainly be nominated
on Monday.  That was the confident belief in Washington.  On Sunday the following dispatch
was published, which, though I do not recall any such conversation, expresses my feeling on
that day:

"Senator Sherman says he does not believe that Foraker, or any other Ohio man, will desert
him.  He spent three hours Sunday at the capitol, in his committee room, and received many
telegrams from Chicago, and also sent dispatches to that great central point of interest. 
He has received some unauthorized dispatches advising him to withdraw in favor of McKinley,
but he refuses absolutely to interfere with his managers.  His invariable answer to all advising
him to pull out is that he is in the fight to stay."

On Monday, the 25th of June, I did not anticipate a change on the first ballot from the last
one on Saturday.  I did expect, from my dispatches, that the nomination would be made that
day and in my favor, but, as the result proved, an arrangement had been made on Sunday that
practically secured the nomination of General Harrison. This became obvious in the course of
the vote on Monday and, as Harrison was practically assured of the nomination, Pennsylvania
voted solid for him and ended the contest.

From the best information I could gather from many persons with whom I conversed, I have no
hesitation in expressing the opinion that I was defeated for the nomination by New York.  I
was assured before the meeting of the convention that I would have six votes from the beginning
from that state, and could reasonably hope for a large addition to that vote in the progress
of the balloting. Instead of this I did not receive a single vote, although three or more of
the delegates had been distinctly selected in my favor and had given pledges to their constituents
that they would vote for me, but they did not on a single ballot do so, except I was advised
that at one ballot one of them voted for me.

I believed then, as I believe now, that one of the delegates from the State of New York practically
controlled the whole delegation, and that a corrupt bargain was made on Sunday which transferred
the great body of the vote of New York to General Harrison, and thus led to his nomination.
It is to the credit of General Harrison to say that if the reputed bargain was made it was
without his consent at the time, nor did he carry it into execution.

I believe and had, as I thought, conclusive proof that the friends of General Alger substantially
purchased the votes of many of the delegates from the southern states who had been instructed
by their conventions to vote for me.

There were eight ballots taken in the convention, in all of which I had a large plurality of
the votes until the last one.

When General Harrison was nominated I assured him of my hearty support.  I have no respect
for a man who, because he is disappointed in his aspirations, turns against the party to which
he belongs. I believe that both honor and duty require prompt and ready acquiescence in the
choice made, unless it is produced by corruption and fraud.

I had no reason to believe, however, that General Harrison resorted in the slightest degree
to any improper or corrupt combination to secure his nomination.  In answer to a letter from
me expressing my congratulations and tendering my support, I received from him a very cordial
reply, as follows:

  "Indianapolis, July 9, 1888.
"My Dear Senator:--Your very frank and kind letter of June 30th
has remained unanswered so long only because it was impossible for
me to get time to use the pen myself.  Some friends were asking
'have you heard from Sherman,' and my answer always was, 'have no
concern about him.  His congratulations and assurances of support
will not be withheld, and they will not be less sincere than the
earlier and more demonstrative expressions from other friends.'
You will recall our last conversation at Pittsburg, in which I very
sincerely assured you that except for the situation of our state
my name would not be presented at Chicago in competition with yours.
I have always said to all friends that your equipment for the
presidency was so ample and your services to the party so great
that I felt there was a sort of inappropriateness in passing you
by for any of us.  I absolutely forbade my friends making any
attempt upon the Ohio delegation, and sent word to an old army
comrade in the delegation that I hoped he would stand by you to
the end.

"I shall very much need your service and assistance, for I am an inexperienced politician as
well as statesman.  My desire is to have a Republican campaign and not a personal one, and
I hope a good start will be made in that direction in the organization of the committee.  I
have not and shall not attempt to dictate the organization, but have made some very general
suggestions.  I will confidently hold you to your promise to give me frankly any suggestions
that you may think valuable, and assure you that criticism will always be kindly received.

"Mrs. Harrison joins me in kind regards to Mrs. Sherman.

  "Very sincerely your friend,
  "Benj. Harrison.
"Hon. John Sherman, U. S. Senate.

"I shall be very glad to see you when you come."

I had many letters from him during the canvass and gave him a hearty and I think effective
support.  After his election he wrote me the following letter:

  "Indianapolis, Ind., November 22, 1888.
"Hon. John Sherman, Washington, D. C.

"My Dear Senator:--You will understand, without any explanation from me, that my little home
bureau was entirely inadequate to deal with the immense flood of telegrams and letters that
poured in upon me after the election.  It has happened, that some of those that should have
had earliest attention have been postponed, by reason of the fact that the associated press
carried off the telegrams and they were not returned for some times.  But you did not need
to be assured that I appreciate very highly your friendly words, and rely implicitly upon that
friendly spirit that has not only prompted them, but so much besides that was useful to me.

"I have, up to this time, given my whole attention to visiting friends and to my correspondence
with those who have addressed me by wire or mail.  We are just now torn up a little in our
household by reason of the work necessary to introduce the natural gas; but will after a little
while be settled again.  I wish that you would feel that I desire you to deal with me in the
utmost frankness, without any restraints at all, and in the assurance that all you may say
will be kindly received and will have the weight which your long experience in public life
and your friendship for me entitles it to.  I know the embarrassments that now attend any intercourse
with my friends, on their part, rather than on mine; but you will find some method of communicating
with me if you desire, and after awhile I will have the pleasure of a personal conference.
With kind regards to Mrs. Sherman, I am,

  "Very sincerely yours,
  "Benj. Harrison."

I sent him the following answer:

  "Washington, D. C., November 26, 1888.
"My Dear Sir:--Yours of the 22nd is received.  I appreciate the
embarrassments of your position and feel that the highest mark of
friendship is to let you alone, and have therefore refrained from
writing to or visiting you.  Still I wish you to feel that I have
no hope or ambition higher than to see your administration a complete
success.  The victory is a Republican victory and that I think is
a victory for the whole country.  Any advice or aid I can give will
be freely rendered on call, but not tendered until needed.  I notice
that every scribbler is making a cabinet for you, but your observation
must have led you to the conviction that this is a duty you only
can perform.  Advice in this matter is an impertinence.  Your
comfort and success will largely depend upon this, and if I were
to offer advice it would be to consult alone your own judgment,
taking care to choose those who above all will be faithful and
honorable to you and administer the patronage of the departments,
not in their own selfish interests, but for the good of the country.
The cabinet should be fairly distributed among the different
sections, but this is not the prime necessity, nor is it vital that
cliques or factions be represented, but only the general average
of Republican ideas and policy.

"As to the broader questions of public policy the rule of action is very different than the
one suggested as to cabinet officers. The President should 'touch elbows' with Congress.  He
should have no policy distinct from that of his party, and this is better represented in Congress
than in the Executive.  Cleveland made his cardinal mistake in dictating a tariff policy to
Congress.  Grant also failed to cultivate friendly relations with Congress, and was constantly
thwarted by it.  Lincoln had a happy faculty in dealing with Members and Senators.

"As to visiting you, I will do so with pleasure if you think it necessary, but I dread, on
your account as well as my own, the newspaper talk and gabble that will follow.  It might embarrass
you with others.  With the modern facility of dictating you can converse with me without restraint,
and all letters passing between us can be returned to the writer.  In conclusion permit me
to say, and perhaps I am justified in saying by what appears in the papers, that you must not
feel embarrassed or under the slightest restraint by seeing my name in connection with office.
I am not seeking or expecting any position, nor have I ever determined in my own mind whether
I could, consistently with my duties to Ohio, accept any executive office.  You should fell
like a gallant young gentleman entering upon life with a world of girls about him, free to
choose --to propose, but not to dispose.

"Give my kind regards, in which Mrs. Sherman and Mamie join, to Mrs. Harrison and your children,
especially the little grandson.

  "Very respectfully yours,
  "John Sherman."

The result of the nomination at Chicago did not in the least disturb my equanimity or my allegiance
to the great party to which I belonged, and for the success of which I had devoted my life
since 1854.  I listened with complaisance to the explanations made as to the wavering of the
Ohio delegation on the Saturday previous to the nomination, and as to the unexpected action
of the New York delegation and the curious reasoning which held them together in the hope that
they could persuade their leader to vote for me. The only feeling of resentment I entertained
was in regard to the action of the friends of General Alger in tempting with money poor negroes
to violate the instructions of their constituents.  I have since read many of the revelations
made subsequently as to the action of the Ohio delegation, and came to the conclusion that
they did what they thought best to promote my nomination, and had just ground for discouragement
when my vote fell below the number anticipated.

On the 5th of July I attended the national exposition in progress in Cincinnati at that time,
and made a speech mainly confined to the remarkable growth of the northwestern states.  On
the next day I visited the chamber of commerce, and the Lincoln club.  I then went to Mansfield.
On the evening of the day of my arrival I was called upon by a great number of my townsmen,
who seemed to feel my recent defeat with more regret than I did.

During this visit to Ohio I heard a great deal about the Chicago convention, but paid little
attention to it, and said I was content with the result, that my friends had done what they
could, that Harrison was nominated and ought to be elected.  As quoted by a newspaper reporter,
I said:  "Henceforth, I can say what I please, and it is a great pleasure.  This feeling of
freedom is so strong with me that I am glad I did not get the nomination."  Whether I uttered
these words or not, they expressed my feeling of relief at the time.

The 100th anniversary of the first permanent settlement in the State of Ohio, at Marietta,
was celebrated on the 7th of April, 1888.  There was a difference of opinion among the people
whether the proper day was the 7th of April or the 15th of July, as the landing of the settlers
was on the 7th of April, but on the 15th of July General Arthur St. Clair entered upon the
discharge of his duties as governor of the northwestern territory.  The result was, the people
of Marietta concluded to celebrate on both days.  Senator Evarts made an eloquent address on
the 7th of April, and I was invited to deliver one on the last day of the second celebration,
commencing on the 15th of July.  The ceremonies, visiting and feasting continued during five
days.  The fifth day was called "Ohio day," and was intended as the finale of a great celebration.
It was said that 20,000 persons thronged the streets and participated in the memorial ceremonies
on that day.  This vast crowd, gathered from many different states, were hospitably entertained
by the citizens of Marietta.  The exercises commenced in the morning at ten o'clock, with Governor
Foraker presiding.  Among the distinguished guests were the governors or lieutenant-governors
of the states that were carved out of the northwestern territory.  I had not prepared a speech,
but knew what I intended to talk about.  I was introduced by Governor Foraker in an eloquent
address, which he knew how to make.  I said:

"Ladies and Gentlemen:--The very flattering manner in which our governor has introduced me
to you rather disturbs the serenity of my thoughts, for I know that the high panegyric that
he gives to me is scarcely justified to mortal man.  We have faults, all have failings, and
no one can claim more than a fair and common average of honest purpose and noble aim.  I come
to-day as a gleaner on a well-reaped field, by skillful workmen who have garnered the crop
and placed it in stacks so high that I cannot steal a sheaf without being detected.  I cannot
utter a thought without having it said that I copied from some one else.  I thank fortune I
have no framed speech made, for, if I had, the speech would have been read or spoken to you
in eloquent terms, but I only come with thoughts inspired by the great history we are called
upon to review--a hundred years of this northwest territory.  What a theme it is! Why is it
that this favored country of 260,000 square miles and about 160,000,000 acres of land had been
selected as the place where the greatest immigration of the human race has occurred in the
history of the whole world?  There is no spot in this world of ours of the size of this western
territory, where, within a hundred years, 15,000,000 of free people are planted, where, at
the beginning of the century, there was scarcely a white man living.  I am glad it has been
spoken of by such eminent men as Senators Hoar, Evarts, Daniel, Tucker, General Ewing and many
other distinguished men; and remember, citizens of Marietta, when I speak of this centennial
celebration, I do not mean that on the 15th of July only, but on the 7th of April and the 15th
of July bound together in a noble wedlock."

I referred to the claims made by several of the old states, based upon their so-called titles
to the whole or to portions of the northwestern territory.  Senator Daniel, who was on the
stand with me, had claimed that Virginia owned all the territory south of the 41st degree of
north latitude and westward to the "South Sea." Connecticut claimed all north of that line.
New York made a similar claim, all based upon grants by King James or King Charles, neither
of whom knew where the South Sea was, and had no conception of or control over the vast territory
covered by these grants.  Neither of these states had either title to or possession of any
part of the northwest territory.  The only title based on European law was that acquired by
Great Britain from France in 1763, and that title was transferred to the United States at the
close of the Revolutionary war.  There was no just title to this region except that held by
the Indian tribes of America.  They owned and possessed it.  Before the constitution of the
United States was, or could have been, adopted the imaginary claim of the several states was
ceded to the United States for the common use and benefit of them all.  Virginia and Connecticut
reserved large portions of Ohio from their several grants, and these reservations were conceded
to them.  There is one title which has always been acknowledged by civilized nations, and that
is the title by conquest.  The only valid title of the United States was that based upon the
conquest by George Rogers Clark, who conquered this country from Great Britain.  It was not
Virginia that did it.  And, yet, among the illustrious names that have been furnished by that
magnificent state, in the history of this country, that of George Rogers Clark will be gratefully
remembered.  He, with his two or three hundred Kentuckians, marched through that country, as
Senator Daniel described, and subdued the British.  Virginia is entitled to the honor of having
this son; but it was George Rogers Clark who gave the United States its title to the northwest.
The Indians, however, had possession, and how was their title to be disposed of?  A treaty
was made at Fort Harmar, and plans were adopted to get possession of the Indian land.  The
Indians always claimed they were cheated in the treaty, defining the boundary line between
them and the white men.  Therefore, Indian wars came on.  St. Clair was defeated by the British
and Indians combined.  The British were always at the back of every hostile movement that has
been made in the history of our country. In Judge Burnett's "Notes of the Northwest Territory"
there is a full account of how white men, step by step, gained possession of this territory.

The Indian tribes made bold and aggressive efforts to hold Ohio. They defeated in succession
the armies of St. Clair and Harmar, but were compelled to yield to the invincible force of
General Wayne and his army.  It is painful and pathetic to follow the futile efforts of the
Indians to hold the northwest, their favorite hunting grounds.  They were told that only a
little land was wanted for some poor white settlers to keep them from starving.  They were
offered $50,000 in money, and $50,000 annually for twenty years, for the southern part of Ohio.
The council adjourned until the next day.  When it convened an old chief said that "Great Spirit"
had appeared to them and told them a way in which all their troubles could be ended.  "Let
our Great Father give to the few poor white settlers among us the money you offer to us and
let them go back from whence they came and be rich and happy."  Colonel Wayne could not answer
this logic, and the Indians were compelled to submit to their fate and ceded one-half of Ohio.
In concluding I said:

"In the history of Ohio we have passed through three or four stages. First was the struggle
with the Indians.  This generation has not realized it, but I have lived long enough to know
something about it in the northern part of Ohio.  I saw the last Indian tribe leave the soil
of Ohio in 1843, the Wyandotte Nation.  There was but the feeble remnant of the most powerful
tribe in the world.  The next period was the clearing of log cabins.  Every homestead was a
log cabin--no brick houses, no frame houses, except in town.  The log houses in the clearing,
the toilsome and exciting time.  You talk about hard times now--I have seen the time when a
man was glad to get thirty-two cents for a bushel of wheat; when eggs could not be sold, when
the only way to get 'York money' was to drive horses and cattle and sheep over the Alleghanies.
The next step was the canal system, which brought laborers into the country.  Then came the
railroads and telegraphs, when the canals ceased to exist.

"Now, I am done.  I shall think, however, that I am not through unless I reverently and devoutly
give thanks to the Ruler of the universe for all this great good that has come upon this great
continent.  Here we see the most wonderful republic in the world, born within a hundred years,
a great community peopling a continent, having every facility in the world for homes--no land-locked
monopoly, closing the door to the poor acquiring homes, or if it does, it should be broken
down at every hazard by wise laws passed from time to time.  I reverently thank God for our
homes, for our great cities, for our state and, more than all else, for our country."

On the 6th of October, while Congress was still in session, I went to Cincinnati and joined
in celebrating "Republican day" at the exposition.

Immediately upon the adjournment of Congress I went to Cleveland to attend a meeting in the
Music Hall, where I made my first speech in the political campaign.  It was carefully prepared
and was confined mainly to a full discussion of the tariff question.  From that time until
the day of the election I was constantly occupied in making speeches in different parts of
the state and in Indiana. Among the many places in which I spoke in Ohio were Lancaster, Defiance,
Toledo and Mansfield.  My first speech in Indiana was at Portland.  I referred to a statement
made in the newspapers that the Republicans had given up Indiana, and denied this emphatically.
I said that since I had come among them and felt the enthusiasm exhibited by them I was entirely
confident that they would give to their own "most gallant citizen for President of the United
States" a hearty and enthusiastic support.  I discussed at length the Mills bill and the tariff
bill of the Senate, and closed with an appeal to the "Hoosier voter" in behalf of Ben. Harrison,
"the hero of Peach Tree Creek, and the man that honored Indiana in the Senate of the United
States for six years."

On the next day I spoke at Huntington, opening my speech as follows;

"When I was traveling over the State of Ohio, recently, I was occasionally asked 'what about
Indiana?' and now, since I have been in Indiana, I will be able to answer more accurately than
I could have done, although I believed the people of Indiana were loyal, and brave, and true,
and would never turn their backs upon their most eminent citizen when he had been designated
by the Republican party as a candidate for chief magistrate of the Union.  But I have no longer
any doubt about Indiana.  I saw yesterday 10,000 to 15,000 people, excited by the highest enthusiasm,
marching in the bright sun and warm atmosphere in a county supposed to be Democratic.  To-
day, although the weather is inclement, I see your streets filled with ardent and enthusiastic
people, shouting for Harrison and Morton and the Republican ticket.  No rain disturbs you;
no mud stops you.  I shall go back to Ohio and tell them that the Buckeyes and Hoosiers will
march together."

While in Indiana I received a request from Harrison to speak at Indianapolis, but my engagement
at Toledo prevented this, much to my regret.

My part in the canvass closed at home on the evening of the 5th of November.  I concluded my
speech as follows:

"Benjamin Harrison possesses many qualities of the highest character. He is an able lawyer,
an honest man and a good citizen.  Benjamin Harrison is a man for whom every American citizen
should vote.  He would stand like a wall of fire on every question of honor with a foreign
country.  If you want to do your country a valuable service you will go to the polls and give
a good square honest vote for Harrison."

Harrison received in Ohio a majority over Cleveland of 19,000 votes, and a majority of the
electoral vote in the country.

During the period immediately following the election, the papers were, as usual, full of conjectures
as to cabinet appointments. All sorts of cabinets were formed for General Harrison and in many
of them I was mentioned for the office of Secretary of State.  It was because of this that
I wrote to Harrison the letter already inserted of the date of November 26.  I wished to relieve
him from all embarrassments, as I had made up my mind not to hold any office except such as
might be given to me by the people of Ohio.  I gratefully acknowledge that all the political
favor I have received has been from the people of my native state.

On the 28th of November Mrs. Ellen Ewing Sherman, wife of General Sherman, died at her home
in New York.  She had been in feeble health, but was taken seriously ill about three weeks
before her death.  She was an accomplished woman of marked ability inherited from her father,
a devout Christian of the Catholic faith.  Her life had been devoted to the relief of suffering
and want.  This sad calamity was a source of great grief to her own family and that of her
husband.  She was married to General Sherman on the 1st of May, 1850, at Washington, when her
father was a member of the cabinet of President Taylor.  Throughout her entire life she was
an affectionate wife and a devoted mother.  Her remains were removed to St. Louis, and were
there buried beside those of two sons and three grandchildren.

The winter of 1888-89, after the political excitement of the year before, seemed a tranquil
period of rest.  The coming change of administration excited some interest, especially the
selection of a cabinet.  Blaine and I were frequently mentioned in the public prints for appointment
as Secretary of State, but I gave no attention to the rumors.  I did not care to decline an
office not tendered to me, though I had definitely made up my mind not to accept any executive
office.  The duties of a Senator were familiar and agreeable to me.  I doubted the wisdom of
competing presidential candidates accepting cabinet appointments under a successful rival.
The experiment of Lincoln, with Chase and Seward as his principal advisers, was not a good
example to follow.

The short session of the 50th Congress, commencing December 3, 1888, was mainly occupied with
the tariff question, already referred to, but without hope of passing any tariff bill.  Many
other questions of public policy were also discussed, but as a rule were postponed to the next
Congress, which it was known would be Republican in both branches.  Perhaps the most interesting
topic of debate was the condition of affairs in Samoa.  As chairman of the committee on foreign
relations, on the 29th of January, 1889, I presented to the Senate a full statement of the
complications in that far distant group of islands.  In opening I said:

"The time has arrived when Congress, and especially the Senate, must give intelligent attention
to the questions involved in the occupation and settlement of the Samoan Islands.  These questions
are now exciting profound attention, not only in this country, but in Great Britain and Germany.
While supporting the amendments proposed by the committee on foreign relations, reported now
from the committee on appropriations, I think it is due to the Senate and the people of the
United States that I should state, in a skeleton form, the chief facts in regard to this matter,
and that, too, without any feeling whatever, without any desire to interfere with our diplomatic
negotiations, or to disturb the harmony of our relations with Germany or Great Britain.  I
hope that the action of the Senate will be unanimous upon the adoption of these amendments,
and that a frank and open debate will tend to this result."

It is not worth while to follow the line of events that resulted in making Great Britain, Germany,
and the United States the guardians of these far distant, half-civilized, mercurial, and combative
orientals.  The only interest the United States had in these islands was the possession and
ownership of the Bay of Pago-Pago, acquired by a treaty in 1878 between the United States and
the King of Samoa. The repeated wars on a small scale that have occurred since that time, and
the complications and expense caused by the tripartite protectorate of the islands, furnish
another example of the folly of the United States in extending its property rights to lands
in a far distant sea.  Our continental position ought to dissuade us from accepting outside
possessions which in case of war would cost the United States more to defend than their value.

On the 24th of February, 1889, my youngest sister, Fanny Sherman Moulton, the widow of Colonel
Charles W. Moulton, died at her residence at Glendale, Ohio, after a brief illness.  Her husband
died in January, 1888.  She was buried by his side in Spring Grove Cemetery, near Cincinnati.
In the hurry of the close of the session I could not attend her funeral.  She was always kind
and affectionate, not only to her children, but to all her kindred.  I felt her death keenly,
for as the youngest of our family she had lived with me until her marriage, and was regarded
by me more as a daughter than a sister.

The called session of the Senate convened on the 4th of March, 1889.  President Harrison's
message was well delivered and well received.  It was longer than the usual inaugural.  It
was free from any studied rhetoric, but was sensible, logical and satisfactory. The nominations
of the cabinet officers were made and immediately confirmed.  Those of Blaine and Windom were
anticipated but the remainder of the cabinet excited some surprise.  They were comparatively
new men, without much, if any, experience in congressional life, but were well known in their
respective states as gentlemen of ability and high character.  A bare majority of the Senate
were classed as Republicans.  They retained the organization of the committees and no material
changes were made.  The Senate acted upon its general custom to confine its business to that
which it could do alone without the action of the House.  It adjourned on the 2nd of April, 1889.

Soon after the close of the called session in April, 1889, Mrs. Sherman and I concluded to
make a trip to Europe.  Both of us had been confined more than usual for over a year, and needed
recreation and a change of scene.  We went to New York on the 27th of April, stopping with
my niece, Mrs. Alfred M. Hoyt.  On the next day we witnessed from the battery the naval parade
in honor of the centennial of the inauguration of Washington.  On the first of May my little
party, composed of Mrs. Sherman, Miss May Hoyt, my daughter Mary and myself, were driven to
the steamer "City of New York," and there met Senator Cameron and his wife, with their infant
child and nurse, Mrs. Colgate Hoyt, a niece of mine, with four children and nurse, and Mrs.
Henry R. Hoyt, child and nurse.  With this large party we had a joyous and happy voyage.  Among
the passengers we found many agreeable companions and had the usual diversions, such as music,
singing and card playing.  We arrived at Queenstown on the 8th of May without any special incident,
proceeding thence to Liverpool and London, where we stopped at the Hotel Metropole. Here all
our companions except our family party of four left us. As it was our desire to visit Italy
before the hot weather set in, we determined to push on as rapidly as convenient to Naples.
We spent a day or two in London.  We pushed on to Paris via Folkestone and Boulogne.  We remained
three days at the Hotel Liverpool in Paris and there met several friends, among them Mrs. William
Mahone and daughter, and Major and Mrs. Rathbone.  On the 14th we went to Lyons, the 15th to
Marseilles, and the 16th to Nice.  On the 17th we visited Monte Carlo, and on the 18th went
to Genoa.  Here we spent two days in visiting the most interesting places in that ancient and
interesting city.  From thence, on the 20th, we went to Rome.  The city had already been abandoned
by most of the usual visitors, but we did not suffer from the heat, and leisurely drove or
walked to all the principal places of interest, such as the ruins of the Roman forum, the Colosseum,
the baths of Caracalla and St. Peter's, and the many churches in that ancient city.  In the
six days in Rome we had, with the aid of maps and a good guide, visited every interesting locality
in that city, and had extended our drives over a large part of the Campagna.  At Liverpool
I had employed a Swiss with the awkward name of Eichmann as my courier. He had a smattering
knowledge of many languages, but could not speak any well; he proved to be faithful, and, so
far as I could discover, was honest.  He relieved us from petty cares and could generally find
the places I wished to see.  On the 27th we went to Naples, and on the 28th by steamer to Sorrento
and Capri.  On the 29th we traveled by carriage to Pompeii and thence to Naples.  On the 30th
we drove about Naples as well as we could, but here we began to feel the heat, which was damp
and depressing.  It is the misfortune of this city that, although surrounded on all sides by
the most beautiful and picturesque scenery of sea and mountain, in a land rich in historical
and poetical annals, yet a large portion of the inhabitants impress a stranger with the conviction
that they are the poorest, and perhaps the most ignorant, population in Europe.  It is a sad
reflection, that applies especially to all parts of southern Italy, that the descendants of
the Romans, once the rulers of the world, are now classed among the lowest in intelligence
in the Christian and civilized world.  I remember two things about Naples, one that Mount Vesuvius
was in partial action during our stay, and that we had a full opportunity to explore the ruins
of Pompeii.

About this time there occurred an amusing incident growing out of the ignorance of a common
American phrase on the part of my courier. Mr. Oates, of Alabama, a leading Member of the House
of Representatives, was traveling with his wife and friends on the same general route that
I was.  We frequently met and had pleasant and friendly chats. Eichmann noticed our intimacy
and was very polite to Mr. Oates. One day, as my party and I were about to enter a car, some
one said:  "Is not that John Sherman?"  Mr. Oates said, in the hearing of Eichmann:  "Yes,
that is Sherman," and added as a compliment: "He was a good watchdog in the treasury."  Eichmann
catching the phrase "watchdog" applied to me regarded it as a gross insult.  He rushed into
my car, his face aflame with passion and his English more confused than usual, and said:  "That
man," pointing to Oates, "was not your friend; he called you, sir, a watchdog; yes, sir, a
watchdog.  He has but one arm, sir, one arm, or I would have chastised him."  I had great difficulty
in persuading him what a "watchdog" meant, that it was intended as a compliment, not as an insult.

On the 31st we returned to Rome.  During my stay there I had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Porter,
our minister to Rome.  He was hardly yet installed in his duties, as the king had been absent,
but returned from Germany the day I arrived.  Porter and I had been in Congress together, and
boarded at the same house.  He was not only a man of ability, but of pleasing address and manners.

Everybody I saw in Rome was talking about the heat and moving out of town.  On June 1, I went
to Florence.  There we spent four days very pleasantly.  The hotel was good, the weather all
we could desire, and the people we met, looked contented and comfortable. They were in striking
contrast with their countrymen in Naples. There was an air about the place that indicated prosperity.
Florence is an art gallery.  Several of our countrymen, famous as artists, of whom I can recall
Powers, Meade and Turner, were not only pursuing, but learning, their art.  I was told that
a considerable part of the population were engaged in painting and sculpture.  No doubt their
wages were small but food and clothing were also low.

We would gladly have remained longer in Florence if my plan of travel would have allowed it.
Not only was the city and all the treasures of art interesting, but the country around was
picturesque and highly cultivated.  We could ride in any direction over admirable roads and
almost every place had an historical interest.  I witnessed there a review of several thousand
troops, but was especially interested in a body of small men well drilled for rapid movements.
The parade was on Sunday and the ladies objected to a parade on that day.  I observed that
in the Latin states I visited, Sunday was generally selected for such displays.  I purchased
two works of art from American artists.  I commend the wisdom of their choice of location,
for in Florence the love of art, especially of sculpture, is more highly appreciated than in
any other city of Europe that I have visited.

Our next stopping place was Venice.  The chief attraction of this city is that it is unlike
any other city in the world in its location, its architecture, its history and in the habits
and occupation of its people.  It is literally located in the sea; its streets are canals;
its carriages are gondolas and they are peculiar and unlike any other vessel afloat.  Magnificent
stone palaces rise from the waters, and the traveler wonders how, upon such foundations, these
buildings could rest for centuries.  Its strange history has been the basis of novels, romances,
dramas and poetry, by writers in every country and clime.  Its form of government was, in the
days of the Doges, a republic governed by an aristocracy, and its wealth was the product of
commerce conducted by great merchants whose enterprise extended to every part of the known
habitable globe.

We visited St. Mark's cathedral, the palace of the Doges, and the numerous places noted in
history or tradition.  We chartered a gondola and rode by moonlight through the Grand Canal
and followed the traditional course of visitors.  The glory of Venice is gone forever.  We
saw nothing of the pomp and panoply of the ancient city.  The people were poor and the palaces
were reduced to tenement houses.  Venice may entice strangers by its peculiar situation and
past history, but in the eye of an American traveler it is but a great ruin.  The wages paid
for labor were not sufficient to supply absolute necessities.

The construction of the railroad to Vienna is a remarkable feat of engineering.  The route
over the Semmerling pass presents difficulties far greater than any encountered in the United
States.  We spent four days in and about Vienna.  Its location on the River Danube was a good
one for a great city.  The surrounding country was interesting and well cultivated.  The comparison
between the people of Vienna and Venice was very much in favor of Vienna.  The city was clean,
well built, with many signs of growth and prosperity. The people were comfortably clad, and
the crowds that gathered in the parks and gardens to hear the music of the military bands were
orderly and polite.  Among the European cities I have visited, I recall none that made a more
favorable impression on my mind than Vienna.  I found no difficulty in making my English understood,
and it was said of the people of that city that they generally knew enough of the English and
French languages, in addition to their native German, to sustain a conversation in either.
We visited Colonel Fred. Grant, then our minister to Austria, at Vosben, about twenty miles
by rail from Vienna.  I did not seek to make acquaintances in Vienna, as my time would not
allow it, but, from a superficial view, I believed that the people of that city were intelligent,
social and friendly, with more of the habits of Frenchmen than of the Germans of Berlin, or
of the English of London.

From Vienna we followed the line of railroad through Salzburg, Innsbruck, to Zurich, stopping
at each place for a day.  This a very interesting country, generally picturesque, and in some
places mountainous.  Here we see the southern German in his native hills. A vein of superstition
colors their creed as good Catholics.  They are, as a rule, loyal to their emperor, and content
with their condition.  The passage from the Tyrol into Switzerland is not marked by national
boundaries, such as rivers or mountains, nor does the population vary much until one reaches
Zurich.  In our progress thus far, from Nice through Italy and Austria, our party had been
traveling over, to us, a new and strange land.  At Zurich we entered within a region visited
by Mrs. Sherman and myself in 1859.  The cities and mountains of Switzerland seemed familiar
to us.  Great changes, however, had occurred in modes of travel in this short period in these
old countries.  Railroads traversed the valleys and crossed the mountains, where we had traveled
in the stage coach.  At Lucerne I went up a tramway to the top of Mt. Pilatus, at a grade of
from 25 to 35 degrees.  I did not feel this in ascending, but in descending I confess to experiencing
real fear.  The jog-jog of the cogwheels, the possibility of their breaking, and the sure destruction
that would follow, made me very nervous.  I would have been less so but for a lady unknown
to me, sitting by my side, who became frightened and turned deathly pale. I was glad indeed
when we reached the lake.

From Lucerne Mrs. Sherman went to Neuchâtel to meet my niece, Mrs. Huggins, then sick at that
place.  The remainder of the party went to Interlaken and the valley in which it is situated.
I have no room for the description of mountain scenery, and no language can properly convey
a sense of its grandeur.  I have mentally contrasted Mt. St. Bernard and the Simplon with Pike's
Peak and Mt. Washburn, and feel quite sure that in grandeur and in extent of view the American
mountains are superior to those named in Europe, but the larger population in easy reach of
the mountains of Switzerland will give them the preference for a generation or more.  Then
Mt. Shasta will take its place as the most beautiful isolated mountain in the world, and the
Rocky Mountain range will furnish a series of mountains surpassing the mountains of Switzerland;
but both South America and Asia contain mountains thousands of feet higher than either or any
of the mountains of Europe or North America.

Without going into details of travels over familiar ground all our party arrived safely at
Paris on the 2nd of July, 1889.  Unfortunately, Mrs. Sherman was called back to Neuchâtel on
the 4th of July, on account of the continued serious illness of Mrs. Huggins, the balance of
the party remaining in Paris.  We were in that city two weeks and attended the international
exposition many times.  The French people know better than any other how to conduct such a
show.  The great building in which it was held was so arranged that similar articles were grouped
together, and yet all productions of a country were in convenient proximity.  The French are
artists in almost every branch of human industry.  They are cheerful, gay and agreeable.  They
are polite and therefore sensitive of any slight, neglect or rudeness and promptly resent it.

While in Paris we formed some agreeable acquaintances.  Whitelaw Reid, our minister to France,
entertained elegantly his countrymen and his associates in the diplomatic corps.  From him
our little party, especially the two young ladies, received many courtesies, and through him
we had invitations from the President of the French Republic and officers of the exposition.
The reception at the palace of the president was in striking and pleasing contrast with that
given by the emperor in 1867, already referred to.  The later reception was simple in form,
something like a reception by the President of the United States, but where it differed it
was an improvement upon our custom.  The invitation was quite general and extended to the diplomatic
corps, to all persons representing any article in the exposition, and to many citizens and
visitors in Paris, who were named by the diplomatic corps or by the officers of the French
government.  I think that fully as many persons were present as usually attend the receptions
of our President.  Each invited guest, as he entered the reception room, gave his name, and,
if escorting others, gave their names to the officer in charge. The name was announced to the
president, who stood a few paces in the rear, the guests and the president bowed but did not
shake hands and the guests passed on through a suite of rooms or into the garden.  Miss Hoyt,
my daughter and I attended the reception with Mr. and Mrs. Reid.  As Mr. Reid entered the room
his name and office were announced, and the president and he advanced towards each other, shook
hands, and I and my party were introduced and we shook hands.  This occupied but a moment and
the reception of others went on, only occasionally interrupted by the president when he chose
to recognize some one by handshaking.  When we were received, as stated, we were introduced
by Mr. Reid to several persons on attendance on the president, and then retired with the passing
company.  In this way the president and his wife escaped the extreme fatigue of shaking hands
with thousands of people in rapid succession, often producing soreness and swelling of hands
and arms.  I hope some President of the United States will be bold enough to adopt, as he can,
this simple measure of relief practiced by the President of the French Republic.  The French
government also furnishes a house ample enough for a large reception, which the United States
does not do, but I trust will.

We left Paris on the 15th of July and joined Mrs. Sherman at Neuchâtel.  After two days at
this delightful place we went to Basle and thence down the Rhine, stopping at places of interest
on the way, but this is a journey I had taken before.

We made a brief visit to Amsterdam and the Hague, and then went to Brussels, with which city
we had become acquainted on our previous visit.  We arrived in England about the 1st of August
and remained in London, or its environs, a week, most of the time in the country. During my
stay I did not seek to form new acquaintances and most of the people I knew were absent in
the country.  From London we went to Oxford and remained several days visiting the colleges
and the country around, especially the beautiful palace of the Duke of Marlborough.  From there
we went to Leamington, and made short excursions to Warwick Castle, Kenilworth, Stratford and
Coventry. We then visited the English lakes, including Windermere.  I was especially interested
in the games, races and wrestling at Grasmere. From there we went to Chester spending several
days in that city and surrounding country.  We visited the magnificent estate of the Duke of
Westminster, a few miles from Chester, and drove through Gladstone's place, but he was then
absent.  In Chester we met Justice Gray and his wife, and Bancroft Davis and his wife.  With
them we drove in the old-fashioned coach in and about the environs of Chester.  From thence
we went to Liverpool, remaining about a week in that city.

It is scarcely necessary to state that such a rapid, transient visit could hardly convey a
proper conception of England or Englishmen.  Our view was like that of the English traveler
in America when he undertakes to describe our vast country on a trip of a month from New York
to San Francisco.  My idea of Great Britain is based, not upon flying visits, but upon my study
of English history and literature.  The political institutions of Great Britain are rapidly
approaching our own.  While progressive, the people of that country are also conservative,
but with each successive decade they extend the power of the House of Commons so that already
in some respects it represents better the public sentiment than the Congress of the United
States.  It responds quickly to a change of popular opinion.  The functions of the crown are
now more limited than those of our President, while the House of Commons can at any moment
put an end to the ministry, and if necessary a new House of Commons can be convened within
a brief period, and a new ministry be formed or the old one confirmed according to the popular
will. All the governments of Europe are following in the same path, so that we may fairly hope
that in a brief time Europe will become republican in substance if not in form.

We returned in the steamer "City of New York," the vessel on which we went over, and arrived
in New York on the 12th of September. My wife, daughter and myself returned to Washington,
improved in health and strength.

On the evening of the next day after my arrival a large company, estimated at 1,500 people,
led by the Marine band, marched to my house.  The report given by the "Republican" of Washington
the next morning is substantially correct and is here inserted:

"To General Grosvenor had been assigned the duty of formally welcoming the Senator, and he
did so in a very pleasant speech. He spoke of the thirty-five years of faithful service which
had been rendered Ohio by John Sherman, as Representative, Senator, cabinet officer and citizen;
touched upon the eagerness with which Ohio looked for the Senator's return; referred happily
to the Senator's wife and daughter, and then launched out upon the broad ocean of Ohio politics.
He closed by saying that one of the chief causes of Ohio Republican exultation on this occasion
lay in the fact that the Senator had returned to do nobly his part toward the re-election of
Governor Foraker and the election of a Republican Senator to succeed Mr. Payne.

"The welcome was punctuated with applause, and when the speech and the uproar had ceased the
band played 'Home Again.'  The crowd cheered once more as Senator Sherman stepped forward and
commenced his reply.

"Appreciation of the welcome which had been extended to him by friends from Ohio and friends
in Washington brightened his opening remarks, and he said that, although his home was in Ohio,
yet he had been so long a resident of this city that he felt himself almost entitled to the
rights of citizenship here, without, of course, losing his allegiance to the people of his
native state.  The joys of home and the pleasures of foreign lands were dilated upon, and the
Senator said:  'No American can travel anywhere without having a stronger love and affection
for his native land.  This is the feeling of every American, and it is sometimes too strongly
and noisily expressed to be acceptable abroad.  We do sometimes carry the flag too high and
flaunt it offensively.'

"Previous visits to Europe were referred to, and the Senator went on:  'And now let me say
to you that while we boast in America of the rapid progress we have made in growth, population,
wealth and strength, yet it is equally true that some of the oldest nations in the world are
now keeping pace with us in industry, progress and even in liberal institutions.  Everywhere
in these old countries the spirit of nationalism is growing stronger and stronger.

'Thirty years ago Italy had at least five different forms of government; now it is under one
rule.  Twenty-two years ago France was an empire, under the almost absolute dominion of Napoleon
III; now it is a republic, with all the forms of republican institutions, but without the stability
of our government.  The kingdom of Prussia has been expanded into the great German empire,
among the strongest, if not the strongest, of the military powers in the world.  The institutions
of Great Britain have become liberalized until it is a monarchy only in name, the queen exercising
far less power than the President of the United States.  The whole tendency of events is to
strengthen and at the same time popularize government.'

"The popularity of Americans in Europe was mentioned, and it was said of them that while abroad
they were not partisans, but patriots; they believed that any party at home was better than
all parties in foreign lands.  The signs of war abroad and of peace in the United States were
sketched, and the veterans who fought for the Union were eulogized and said to be entitled
to the most liberal treatment.  The Republican party, having saved the Union should be the
governing party, and it should be heartily supported by all true patriots."

As I concluded, the audience came forward and shook hands with me. Later addresses were delivered
by Thomas B. Coulter, ex-Lieutenant Governor Wm. C. Lyons, of Ohio, Rev. Wm. Warring, J. H.
Smyth and ex-Speaker Warren J. Keifer.

Quite a number of callers were received in the house by Mrs. and Miss Sherman.

During the balance of the month of September I remained in Washington engaged in writing letters,
dictating interviews, and preparing for the gubernatorial contest in Ohio, then in active progress.
Governor Foraker was the Republican candidate for re-election, and James E. Campbell, formerly
a Republican and recently a Democratic Member of Congress, was the opposing candidate.  Both
of these gentlemen were lawyers of ability, in the prime of life and living in adjoining counties.
The canvass had become interesting before my return and I desired to do all I could in aid
of Foraker.  He was nominated while I was still in Europe, for the third term, and under conditions
that weakened him somewhat.  Still, his ability as a debater, his popular manners, and his
interesting history, seemed to assure his success.  I returned to Ohio with my family about
the 1st of October, and made my first speech in this canvass at the Wayne county fair, at Orrville,
on the 10th.  I was introduced to the audience by M. L. Smyser, the Member of Congress from
that district, in terms too complimentary to quote.  He gave notice that Campbell would speak
to them on the next day on behalf of the Democratic party.  In explanation of my appearance
there where politics were generally excluded I said:

"It is rather unusual at a county fair, where men of all parties are invited to exhibit and
compare their productions, to discuss party politics.  Therefore, I hesitated to accept your
invitation to speak here in behalf of the Republican party; but upon being advised by my friend,
Mr. Smyser, your Representative in Congress, that the same invitation was extended to Governor
Foraker and Mr. Campbell, the two candidates for governor, that Governor Foraker could not
attend, but Mr. Campbell had accepted, I concluded also to accept, and am now here to give
you the reasons for my political faith."

This speech was prepared for the occasion, and was chiefly on the choice between the Mills
tariff bill and the Senate bill, both of which failed to pass in the preceding Congress.  I
discussed state issues briefly, including recent frauds at elections, the alleged bribery and
corruption in the election of Mr. Payne as Senator, and the importance of nonpartisan boards
of election.  I closed by saying:

"This is not a contest between Governor Foraker and Mr. Campbell. I have the highest regard
for both of these gentlemen.  Governor Foraker is one of the ablest, one of the most brilliant,
men in public life.  He was one of the youngest soldiers in the Union army, and, though young,
rendered important services at critical periods of the war.  He has made his own way in the
world, and has filled with distinction every place assigned him.  He has made an efficient
governor, and I can see no force in the objection that he is running for a third term.  If
he has performed his duties exceptionally well in the past, it is good reason why he should
be continued in office in the future.  I have also the pleasure of a very kindly acquaintance
with Mr. Campbell, whom I regard as a gentleman of merit and ability.  Either of these gentlemen
will perform the personal duties of the office with credit to the state, but the contest is
not between them, but between the two parties they represent.  Governor Foraker represents
the principles and tendencies of the Republican party, its progressive national policy, the
purity of elections, state and national, and its willingness to take the lead in Ohio in all
proper measures to promote good order, temperance and morality, so far as they can be promoted
by human laws and popular opinion.

"Mr. Campbell represents the aims and tendencies of the Democratic party, its jealousy of national
authority, its want of genuine patriotism, its reactionary policy as to tariff laws, its lawless
disregard of fair elections, both north and south, the criminal gangs that disgrace our cities,
and its low tone on all questions affecting good order and morals.  In my view the choice is
as plain as the sunlight of heaven in favor of the Republican party.  It may falter for a time
in meeting new questions, it may be disturbed by passing clouds, and, like all human agents,
may yield to expediency or be tarnished with the corruption and faults of individuals, yet
it is the best organized guide in state and national affairs, and should, and I confidently
trust will, receive the hearty support of the people of Ohio."

The reporter, in his description of the meeting, said:

"Senator Sherman was in excellent form to-day; his voice was clear, strong and its carrying
power excellent.  He spoke with uncommon vigor and, of course, without notes or manuscript.
There was something in his manner that seemed to carry conviction with it. The people knew
they were listening to an honest man who was a thorough master of every subject upon which
he touched.  He spoke as one having authority, and the weight of forty years of sturdy public
life went into his utterances."

It was about this period that the Ohio ballot box forgery matter became a subject of discussion.
On the 11th of September, Richard G. Wood appeared in Columbus, and delivered to Foraker the
following paper, and received the governor's recommendation for the smoke inspectorship in
Cincinnati:

  "Washington, D. C., July 2, 1888.
"We, the undersigned, agree to pay the amounts set opposite, or
any part thereof, whenever requested so to do by John R. McLean,
upon 'Contract No. 1,000,' a copy of which is to be given to each
subscriber upon payment of any part of the money hereby subscribed.

"It is understood that each subscription of five thousand dollars shall entitle the subscriber
thereof to a one-twentieth interest in said contract.

   1.  J. E. Campbell . . . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
   2.  J. E. Campbell . . . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
   3.  J. E. Campbell . . . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
   4.  Wm. McKinley . . . . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
   5.  Justin R. Whiting  . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
   6.  Justin R. Whiting  . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
   7.  B. Butterworth . . . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
   8.  John Sherman . . . . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
   9.  John Sherman . . . . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
  10.  S. S. Cox  . . . . . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
  11.  Wm. C. P. Breckinridge . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
  12.  Wm. McAdoo . . . . . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
  13.  John R. McPherson  . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
  14.  John R. McPherson  . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
  15.  John R. McPherson  . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
  16.  F. B. Stockbridge  . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
  17.  F. B. Stockbridge  . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
  18.  .................  . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
  19.  .................  . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.
  20.  .................  . . . . . . Five Thousand Dollars.

The paper referred to in this alleged agreement as "Contract No. 1,000" purported to be a contract
for the manufacture and introduction of the Hall and Wood ballot box, to be used by the United
States government whenever it had the authority to use ballot boxes.  The merit claimed for
the box was that it was constructed in such a manner as to prevent fraudulent voting.  This
alleged agreement and contract, taken in connection with a bill introduced July 23, 1888, by
Mr. Campbell, in the House of Representatives, "regulating Federal elections and to promote
the purity of the ballot," which required the purchase by the government of the ballot box
mentioned, would of course, if true, present a clear case of corruption on the part of the
Members of Congress signing the agreement, so grave as to justify their expulsion.

A copy of this paper was handed by Governor Foraker to Murat Halstead on the 28th of September,
and on the evening of that day the governor made a speech at the Music Hall, Cincinnati, in
which he referred to Mr. Campbell having introduced the bill for the purchase of the ballot
box.  On the 4th of October, Halstead published in the "Commercial-Gazette" a fac-simile of
the false paper, with the name of Campbell alone, the names of the other apparent signers not
being given in the fac-simile and nothing being said about them. On the 8th of October I was
informed that it was whispered about Cincinnati that my name, with many others, was attached
to the paper.  I at once telegraphed that if this were so the signature was a forgery.

When I spoke at Orrville two days later I did not allude to the subject, regarding the whole
thing as an election canard which would correct itself.  In a brief time this became true.
The whole paper was proven to be a forgery.  The alleged signatures were made on tracing paper,
from franks on documents distributed by Congressmen. All this was done by Wood, or by his procurement,
in order to get an office through Governor Foraker.  Halstead, on the 11th of October, published
in his paper, over his own name, a statement that Mr. Campbell's signature was fraudulent,
no mention being made of the other alleged signers of the paper.  Subsequently, on the 10th
of November, after the election, Foraker wrote a letter to Halstead giving a narrative of the
mode by which he was misled into believing the paper to be genuine.

It has always seemed strange to me that Foraker, having in his possession a paper which implicated
Butterworth, McKinley and myself, in what all men would regard as a dishonorable transaction,
did not inform us and give us an opportunity to deny, affirm or explain our alleged signatures.
An inquiry from him to either of the persons named would have led to an explanation at once.
No doubt Foraker believed the signatures genuine, but that should not have deterred him from
making the inquiry.

On the 12th of November, I wrote the following letter to Halstead:

  "Senate Chamber,               }
  "Washington, November 12, 1889.}
"My Dear Sir:--Now that the election is over, I wish to impress
upon you the importance of making public the whole history of the
'forged paper' about ballot boxes.

"While you believed in the genuineness of Campbell's signature you were entirely right in exposing
him and the signers of the paper, for if it was genuine it was a corrupt and illegal transaction.
I only wonder that seeing the names upon it did not excite your doubt and cause inquiry, but,
assuming they were genuine, you had no right to suppress the paper because it involved your
friends in a criminal charge.  But now, since it is shown to be a forgery, a crime of the greatest
character, it seems to me you ought at once to exercise your well-known energy and independence
in exposing and denouncing, with equal severity, the man or men who forged, or circulated,
or had anything to do with, the paper referred to.  No delicacy or pity ought to shield them
from the consequences of a crime infinitely greater than the signing of such a paper would
have been.  I know in this I speak the general sentiment of many prominent men, and you will
appreciate the feeling of honor and fairness which appeals to you to denounce the men who,
directly or indirectly, were connected with the fabrication of this paper.  If my name was
forged to it I will consider it my duty to prosecute all men who took that liberty.  I will
certainly do so whenever I have tangible evidence that my name was forged.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman."

A fac-simile of the paper was then published with all the alleged signatures.  The subject-matter
was fully investigated by a committee of the House of Representatives, during which all the
persons named in connection with it were examined under oath.  It resulted in the unanimous
finding of the committee as follows:

"In response to the first inquiry directed by the resolution, viz.:

'By whom said alleged contract was prepared, and whether the several signatures appended thereto
are forged or genuine,'

"We find that said alleged contract was dictated (prepared) by Richard G. Wood, and that all
the signatures thereto are forged.

"We further find that J. B. Foraker and Murat Halstead aided in uttering said forgery, Mr.
Foraker by exhibiting the paper to several persons and thereafter delivering it to Mr. Halstead,
and Mr. Halstead aided in uttering said forgery by publishing the forged paper on October 4,
1889, in the Cincinnati 'Commercial Gazette;' but we find that neither of said parties, Foraker
and Halstead, in uttering said paper, knew the same was a forgery.

William E. Mason, chairman of the committee, added to the report quoted the following just
and true statement, which relieved Foraker and Halstead from the implication stated in the report:

"If our unanimous finding is correct that Messrs. Halstead and Foraker did not know the paper
was forged when the uttered it, then they were deceived by some one, for we have found it was
a forgery. Being deceived, then, is their only offense.

"They each have made reputation and character equal perhaps to any of the gentlemen who were
outraged by the forgery.  Since they found they were deceived, they have done all in their
power, as honorable men, to make amends.  To ask more seems to me to be most unjust, and, believing
as I do that the evidence does not warrant the censure indulged in by my associates on the
committee in their above additional findings, I most respectfully, but most earnestly, protest."

This unfortunate incident, not fully explained before the election, created sympathy for Campbell
and naturally displeased friends of McKinley, Butterworth and myself.  I did not feel the least
resentment after Halstead denounced the forgery, but entered with increased energy into the
canvass.  During this period I had promised to attend, on the 15th of October, a banquet given
by the citizens of Cleveland to the delegates to the Pan-American Congress, then making a progress
through the United States, to be presided over by my colleague, Senator Payne.  As this speech
is outside of the line of my usual topics, the toast being "The Congress of American States,"
and yet relates to a subject of vital importance, I introduce it as reported in the Cleveland
"Leader:"

"Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen:--The toast you ask me to respond to is the expression of a hope
indulged in by many of the ablest statesmen of the United States ever since our sister American
states dissolved their political connections with European powers.  Henry Clay, as early as
1818, when proposing to acknowledge the independence of the South American states, eloquently
depicted the mutual advantage of closer commercial relations with those states.  Mr. Monroe
proclaimed to the world the determination of the United States not to suffer any European power
to interfere with the internal concerns of independent American states.  Still no effective
measures were adopted to promote intercourse between them.  The hope of closer union has not
been realized, mainly because of the neglect of the government of the United States.  We have
been too much engaged in political disputes and in the development of our own resources.  Then
we have had a serious unpleasantness among ourselves, which, if it had terminated differently,
would have made us very unacceptable partners.  But, now, all this is past and gone, and I
can give assurance to our guests that not only the government of the United States, but the
people of the United States, all parties and of every section, have united heartily in inviting
you here, that they will do their full share in carrying out your recommendations, and sincerely
hope that your conference will lead to a congress of American nations.

"I look upon this conference as having the same relation to the future of America as the conference
of the thirteen British colonies, in 1774, had to the declaration of American independence.
That conference led to the constitution of the United States and was the beginning of the independence
of all the American states.  Your conference is of infinitely greater importance, for your
deliberations affect the interests of more than one hundred million people, while theirs only
affected three million.  But, more important still, your conference contemplates only peaceful
aids for mutual benefit; theirs provided for war and a desperate struggle with superior forces.

"I do not recall, in the annals of man, a meeting of the selected representatives of any nations
with nobler aims or with greater opportunity for good than this conference of American states.
You seek to prevent war by peaceful negotiations and arbitration; you seek to promote intercourse
with each other by land and by sea; you seek, as far as the wants and interests of each nation
will permit, to remove unnecessary restrictions to trade and commerce; you seek to bring into
closer union sixteen republics and one empire, all of them governed by free institutions. 
You do not unite to conquer, but to help each other in developing your resources and in exchanging
your productions.

"If your conference deals wisely with your opportunity you will light a torch that will illuminate
the world.  You will disband armies, you will convert ships of war into useful agencies of
commerce; you will secure the construction of a continuous line of railways from New York to
Buenos Ayres, with connections to the capital city of every American country; you will contribute
to the construction of the Nicaraguan Canal and all other feasible methods of transportation
between the Atlantic and Pacific; you will unite in a generous rivalry of growth and progress
all the American states.  And, more important than all, you will pave the way for a congress
in which all these states will be represented in a greater than an Amphictyonic council, with
broader jurisdiction and scope than the rulers of ancient Greece conceived of.

"Is this to be only a dream?  I do not think so.  The American states are now more closely
united in interest than any other part of the world.  Our institutions are similar.  We nourish
no old- time feuds to separate us.  Our productions do not compete with, but supplement, each
other.  Their direct exchange in American vessels is the natural course of trade.  The diversity
of language is less marked than in any other continent.  The sentiment is universal in America
that America belongs to Americans, that no European power should vex us with its policy or
its wars; that all parts of America have been discovered and are not open to further discovery;
each country belongs to the people who occupy it, with the clear and unquestioned right of
home rule.  Such, at least, is the feeling in the United States.

"And now, looking back with pride over a century of growth, exhibiting to you, as we are doing
by a rather tiresome journey, what we have done, and appreciating fully the rapid progress
and enormous resources of our sister American states, recognizing your equality and absolute
independence, whatever may be your population or extent of territory, we say to you, in all
frankness, that we are ready and willing to join you in an American congress devoted exclusively
to the maintenance of peace, the increase of commerce, and the protection and welfare of each
and all the states of the American continents."

On the 19th of October I addressed a great audience in Music Hall, Cincinnati, at which Butterworth
and Grosvenor also made speeches. In this speech I especially urged the election of Governor
Foraker and answered the cry against him for running for a third term.  I said:

"Now, you have a good ticket, as I said, from top to bottom.  I need not add anything more
with respect to Governor Foraker, who, I believe, ought to be elected, not only because he
has been a good soldier, but because he has been a good governor.  Nor do I fear that cry about
a third term.  How should I fear it, when I am an example of a man serving on the fifth term
of six years each?  If Foraker has done his duty well for two terms, it is a good reason why
he would do better the next time.  If he made any mistakes in the past, he will have a chance
to correct them in the future, and I believe he will do so if he has made any; and I don't
believe he has."

On the 24th of October I was to address a meeting in Columbus, and hearing that Governor Foraker
was sick, at his residence, I called upon him, and we had a free and friendly conversation.
I did not introduce the subject of the ballot box forgery, but assured him that I was doing,
and intended to do, all I could to promote his election.  He thanked me heartily, expressed
his regret that he was unable to take part in the canvass, but hoped to do so before its close.
At one of the largest indoor meetings ever held in Columbus, that evening, I especially urged
the importance of Governor Foraker's election, and ridiculed, to the best of my ability, the
cry that was made for a third term.  I called attention to the fact that all that could be
said against Governor Foraker was that he was running for a third term.  Continuing, I said:

"Why for a third term?  Because he did so well in both his previous terms that the Republican
party of Ohio was willing to sanction him as its candidate for a third term--and intend to
elect him. Why should not a man be nominated by the Republicans for a third term as Governor
of Ohio?  What is there in the office that prevents his full and free and complete performance
of all the duties imposed upon him as Governor of Ohio?  Why, they say the President, by a
prescriptive rule that has been established since the time of Washington, cannot be nominated
for a third term.  What of that? The powers of the Governor of Ohio and the President of the
United States are as different as a and z, and are as wide apart as heaven and earth.  The
President of the United States is armed with more power during his four years than any prince
or potentate of Europe; he exercises a power greater than any man in any country of the world,
whether a monarchy or empire.  But is there any similitude between the Governor of Ohio and
the President of the United States? What power has he?  The Governor of Ohio has less power
than almost any other governor of the United States."

I spoke on the 2nd of November in the Music Hall at Cleveland, and there again urged the election
of Foraker.  I give a short extract of the description of the speech as it appeared in the
papers of that city:

"He ridiculed the third term scare of the Democracy and then paid a glowing tribute to the
worth and integrity of Governor Foraker. 'Has any man said,' he asked, 'that Governor Foraker
is a bad man; that he is not a good man?  My countrymen, no one has said that. He was a brave
soldier.  He is a self-made man; the son of good, plain people.  He is self-educated.  By integrity
and toil he mounted, step by step, on the ladder of fame.  Nearly every man who has arisen
to prominence in our country has arisen from the ranks by toil.  Such a man is Governor Foraker.'"

I spoke daily during the last two weeks of the canvass and everywhere made the same appeal
in behalf of Governor Foraker and the state ticket.  The result of the election was that Campbell
received a plurality of 10,872 votes and was elected.  A majority of the legislature was Democratic,
and subsequently elected Calvin S. Brice United States Senator.

Elbert L. Lampson, the Republican candidate for lieutenant governor, was elected by a plurality
of 22.  The other candidates on the Republican state ticket were elected by an average plurality
of about 3,000.

The first session of the 51st Congress convened on the 2nd of December, 1889, both branches
being Republican.  President Harrison, in his message, reported a very favorable condition
of the national finances.  The aggregate receipts from all sources, for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1889, were $387,050,058.  The total expenditures, including the sinking fund for that
year, were $329,579,929.  The excess of receipts over expenditures was $57,470,129.  The estimated
surplus for the current year was $43,678,883.  This would justify, and the President recommended,
a reduction of taxation to that amount.  When this law was enacted, on the 28th of February,
1878, the price of silver in the market was $1.20 per ounce.  Since that time to the date of
his message the price had fallen to 70.6 cents an ounce.  He expressed a fear of a further
reduction of the value of silver, and that it would cause a difference in the value of the
gold and silver dollars in commercial transactions.  He called the attention of Congress to
these three subjects of national importance--the reduction of taxation, the circulation of
the national banks, and the further issue of silver coin and silver certificates, and invoked
for them the considerate action of Congress.

He recommended the revision of the tariff law in such a way as not to impair the just and reasonable
protection of our home industries, the free list to be extended to such domestic productions
as our home industries did not supply.  He referred approvingly to a plan for the increased
use of silver, which would be presented by Secretary Windom.

The plan, submitted by Secretary Windom in his report, for increasing the use of silver in
the circulation, provided that the treasury department should purchase silver bullion every
month to a limited extent, paying therefor treasury notes receivable for government dues and
payable on demand in gold, or in silver bullion at the current market rate at the time of payment,
and that the purchase of silver bullion and the compulsory coinage of silver dollars under
the act of 1878 should cease.

On the 28th of January, 1890, Senator Morrill introduced, by request, a bill which had been
prepared by, and embodied the views of the Secretary of the Treasury.  This bill was referred
to the committee on finance, and was reported back by Senator Jones, of Nevada, February 25,
with amendments.  The first section of the amended bill authorized the Secretary of the Treasury
to purchase $4,500,000 worth of silver bullion each month, and to issue in payment therefor
treasury notes receivable for customs and all public dues, and when so received they might
be reissued.  They were also redeemable on demand in lawful money of the United States, and
when so redeemed should be canceled.  Such portion of the silver was to be coined as might
be necessary to meet the redemptions authorized.  Other sections provided for details by which
the plan was to be effected.

To this bill I proposed an additional section authorizing the deposits of legal tender notes
by national banks with the United States treasurer, to meet the redemption of the notes of
such banks which had failed, gone into liquidation, or were reducing their circulation, to
be covered into the treasury to the credit of an appropriation from which the money could be
withdrawn as necessary to meet the payments of the notes for which the deposits had been made.
The deposits of this character often exceeded $50,000,000, but under the plan proposed the
money became immediately available in current disbursements, thus avoiding a hoarding of the
notes in the treasury or the creating of a stringency in the circulation, and, at the same
time, giving the government the use of the deposits until needed, by which the issue of bonds
to a considerable extent would be avoided.  This arrangement was accepted and eventually became
section 6 of the law which is now in satisfactory operation.

In the progress of the debate on this bill every question connected with the financial operations
of the government for twenty years was introduced and made the subject of debate, and especially
the coinage act of 1873, and the dropping of the old silver dollar from coinage.  Although
this coin has been restored by the act of 1878, and hundreds of millions of such dollars had
been coined, yet the Senators from the silver producing states, and especially Stewart, were
continually harping on "the crime of 1873," as they called the coinage act of that year, a
careful statement of which has already been made in these volumes.

