Both Mr. WISTERWHISTLE and his chair are peculiar in their respective ways, and each has a
decided history. Mr. WISTERWHISTLE, growing confidential over his antecedents, says, "You see,
Sir, I wasn't brought up to the Bath-chair business, so to speak, for I began in the Royal
Navy, under His Majesty King WILLIAM THE FOURTH. Then I took to the Coast-Guard business, and
having put by a matter of thirty pound odd, and hearing 'she' was in the market,"--Mr. WISTERWHISTLE
always referred to his Bath-chair as "she," evidently regarding it from the nautical stand-point
as of the feminine gender,--"and knowing, saving your presence, Sir, that old BLOXER, of whom
I bought her, had such a good crop of cripples the last season or two, that he often touched
two-and-forty shillings a-week with 'em, I dropped Her Majesty's Service, and took to this
'ere. But, Lor, Sir, the business ain't wot it wos. Things is changed woeful at Torsington
since I took her up. Then from 9 o'clock, as you might say, to 6 P.M., every hour was took
up; and, mind you, by real downright 'aristocracy,'--real live noble-men, with gout on 'em,
as thought nothink of a two hours' stretch, and didn't 'aggle, savin' your presence, over a
extra sixpence for the job either way. But, bless you, wot's it come to now? Why, she might
as well lay up in a dry dock arf the week, for wot's come of the downright genuine invalid,
savin' your presence, blow'd if I knows. One can see, of course, Sir, in arf a jiffy, as you
is touched in the legs with the rheumatics, or summat like it; but besides you and a old gent
on crutches from Portland Buildings, there ain't no real invalid public 'ere at all, and one
can't expect to make a livin' out of you two; for if you mean to do the thing ever so 'ansome,
it ain't reasonable to expect you and the old gent I was a referring to, to stand seven hours
a day goin' up and down the Esplanade between you, and you see even that at a bob an hour ain't
no great shakes when you come to pay for 'ousing her and keepin' her lookin' spic and span,
with all her brass knobs a shining and her leather apron fresh polished with patent carriage
blackin': and Lor, Sir, you'd not b'lieve me if I was to tell you what a deal of show some
parties expects for their one bob an hour. Why, it was only the other day that Lady GLUMPLEY
(a old party with a front of black curls and yaller bows in her bonnet, as I dare say you've
noticed me a haulin' up and down the Parade when the band's a playin'), says to me, says she,
'It ain't so much the easy goin' of your chair, Mr. WISTERWHISTLE, as makes me patronise it,
as its general genteel appearance. For there's many a chair at Brighton that can't hold a candle
to it!'" But at this point he was interrupted by the appearance of a dense crowd that half
filled the street, and drew up in silent expectation opposite my front door. Dear me, I had
quite forgotten I had sent for him. But the boy who cleans the boots and knives has returned,
and brought with him the One Policeman!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOY THE FATHER OF THE MAN.

(A CHAPTER FROM A SEA STORY OF THE FUTURE.)

"Lash the lubber to the top-gallant yard and give him five hundred with the cat o' ninetails!"
shouted the pirate Captain, blue with passion.

There was a murmur amongst his crew. Because their messmate had forgotten to touch his cap,
it seemed hard to their poor untutored minds he should receive so heavy a punishment.

"What, mutiny!" cried the ruffian skipper, "here take this and this and this!" and he distributed
the contents of his revolver amongst the sailors aft.

In the meanwhile, the poor wretch was hanging to the topgallant yard, expecting every moment
to be his last.

"A sail, Sir," said the boatswain, saluting, as he mounted to the quarter-deck.

