Sawkins was not popular with any of the others.  When, about twelve months previously, he first
came to work for Rushton & Co., he was a simple labourer, but since then he had 'picked up'
a slight knowledge of the trade, and having armed himself with a putty-knife and put on a white
jacket, regarded himself as a fully qualified painter.  The others did not perhaps object to
him trying to better his condition, but his wages--fivepence an hour--were twopence an hour
less than the standard rate, and the result was that in slack times often a better workman
was 'stood off' when Sawkins was kept on.  Moreover, he was generally regarded as a sneak who
carried tales to the foreman and the 'Bloke'.  Every new hand who was taken on was usually
warned by his new mates 'not to let the b--r Sawkins see anything.'

The unpleasant silence which now ensued was at length broken by one of the men, who told a
dirty story, and in the laughter and applause that followed, the incident of the tea was forgotten.

'How did you get on yesterday?' asked Crass, addressing Bundy, the plasterer, who was intently
studying the sporting columns of the Daily Obscurer.

'No luck,' replied Bundy, gloomily. 'I had a bob each way on Stockwell, in the first race,
but it was scratched before the start.'

This gave rise to a conversation between Crass, Bundy, and one or two others concerning the
chances of different horses in the morrow's races.  It was Friday, and no one had much money,
so at the suggestion of Bundy, a Syndicate was formed, each member contributing threepence
for the purpose of backing a dead certainty given by the renowned Captain Kiddem of the Obscurer.
One of those who did not join the syndicate was Frank Owen, who was as usual absorbed in a
newspaper. He was generally regarded as a bit of a crank: for it was felt that there must be
something wrong about a man who took no interest in racing or football and was always talking
a lot of rot about religion and politics.  If it had not been for the fact that he was generally
admitted to be an exceptionally good workman, they would have had little hesitation about thinking
that he was mad.  This man was about thirty-two years of age, and of medium height, but so
slightly built that he appeared taller.  There was a suggestion of refinement in his clean-shaven
face, but his complexion was ominously clear, and an unnatural colour flushed the think cheeks.

There was a certain amount of justification for the attitude of his fellow workmen, for Owen
held the most unusual and unorthodox opinions on the subjects mentioned.

The affairs of the world are ordered in accordance with orthodox opinions.  If anyone did not
think in accordance with these he soon discovered this fact for himself.  Owen saw that in
the world a small class of people were possessed of a great abundance and superfluity of the
things that are produced by work.  He saw also that a very great number--in fact the majority
of the people--lived on the verge of want; and that a smaller but still very large number lived
lives of semi-starvation from the cradle to the grave; while a yet smaller but still very great
number actually died of hunger, or, maddened by privation, killed themselves and their children
in order to put a period to their misery.  And strangest of all--in his opinion--he saw that
people who enjoyed abundance of the things that are made by work, were the people who did Nothing:
and that the others, who lived in want or died of hunger, were the people who worked.  And
seeing all this he thought that it was wrong, that the system that produced such results was
rotten and should be altered.  And he had sought out and eagerly read the writings of those
who thought they knew how it might be done.

It was because he was in the habit of speaking of these subjects that his fellow workmen came
to the conclusion that there was probably something wrong with his mind.

When all the members of the syndicate had handed over their contributions, Bundy went out to
arrange matters with the bookie, and when he had gone Easton annexed the copy of the Obscurer
that Bundy had thrown away, and proceeded to laboriously work through some carefully cooked
statistics relating to Free Trade and Protection. Bert, his eyes starting out of his head and
his mouth wide open, was devouring the contents of a paper called The Chronicles of Crime.
Ned Dawson, a poor devil who was paid fourpence an hour for acting as mate or labourer to Bundy,
or the bricklayers, or anyone else who wanted him, lay down on the dirty floor in a corner
of the room and with his coat rolled up as a pillow, went to sleep.  Sawkins, with the same
intention, stretched himself at full length on the dresser.  Another who took no part in the
syndicate was Barrington, a labourer, who, having finished his dinner, placed the cup he brought
for his tea back into his dinner basket, took out an old briar pipe which he slowly filled,
and proceeded to smoke in silence.

Some time previously the firm had done some work for a wealthy gentleman who lived in the country,
some distance outside Mugsborough. This gentleman also owned some property in the town and
it was commonly reported that he had used his influence with Rushton to induce the latter to
give Barrington employment.  It was whispered amongst the hands that the young man was a distant
relative of the gentleman's, and that he had disgraced himself in some way and been disowned
by his people.  Rushton was supposed to have given him a job in the hope of currying favour
with his wealthy client, from whom he hoped to obtain more work.  Whatever the explanation
of the mystery may have been, the fact remained that Barrington, who knew nothing of the work
except what he had learned since he had been taken on, was employed as a painter's labourer
at the usual wages--fivepence per hour.

He was about twenty-five years of age and a good deal taller than the majority of the others,
being about five feet ten inches in height and slenderly though well and strongly built.  He
seemed very anxious to learn all that he could about the trade, and although rather reserved
in his manner, he had contrived to make himself fairly popular with his workmates.  He seldom
spoke unless to answer when addressed, and it was difficult to draw him into conversation.
At meal-times, as on the present occasion, he generally smoked, apparently lost in thought
and unconscious of his surroundings.

Most of the others also lit their pipes and a desultory conversation ensued.

'Is the gent what's bought this 'ouse any relation to Sweater the draper?' asked Payne, the
carpenter's foreman.

'It's the same bloke,' replied Crass.

'Didn't he used to be on the Town Council or something?'

''E's bin on the Council for years,' returned Crass.  ''E's on it now. 'E's mayor this year.
'E's bin mayor several times before.'

'Let's see,' said Payne, reflectively, ''e married old Grinder's sister, didn't 'e?  You know
who I mean, Grinder the greengrocer.'

'Yes, I believe he did,' said Crass.

'It wasn't Grinder's sister,' chimed in old Jack Linden.  'It was 'is niece.  I know, because
I remember working in their 'ouse just after they was married, about ten year ago.'

'Oh yes, I remember now,' said Payne.  'She used to manage one of Grinder's branch shops didn't
she?'

'Yes,' replied Linden.  'I remember it very well because there was a lot of talk about it at
the time.  By all accounts, ole Sweater used to be a regler 'ot un: no one never thought as
he'd ever git married at all: there was some funny yarns  about several young women what used
to work for him.