The re-conversion of steam into water, or, as it is technically called, the condensation of
steam, is however by no means necessary to the effective operation of a steam-engine. From
what has been above said, it will be understood that this effect relieves the piston of a part
of the resistance which is opposed to its motion. If that part of the resistance were not removed,
the pressure of steam acting upon the other side would be affected in no other way than by
having a greater load or resistance to overcome; and if that pressure were proportionately
increased, the effective power of the machine would remain the same. It follows, therefore,
that if the steam upon that side of the piston towards which the motion is made were not condensed,
the steam urging the piston forwards on the other side would require to have a degree of intensity
greater than the steam in a low-pressure engine, by the amount of the pressure of the uncondensed
steam on the other side of the piston. An engine working on this principle has therefore been
called a high-pressure engine. Such an engine is relieved from the incumbrance of all the condensing
apparatus and of the large supply of cold water necessary for the reduction of steam to the
liquid form; for instead of being so reduced, the steam is in this case simply allowed to escape
into the atmosphere. The operation, therefore, of high-pressure engines will be readily understood.
The boiler producing steam of a very powerful pressure, is placed in communication with a cylinder
furnished in the usual manner with a piston; the steam is allowed to act upon one side of the
piston so as to impel it from the one end of the cylinder to the other. When it has arrived
there, the communication with the boiler is reversed, and the steam is introduced on the other
side of the piston, while the steam which has just urged the piston forwards is permitted to
escape into the atmosphere. It is evident that the only resistance to the motion of the piston
here is the pressure of that portion of steam which does not escape into the air; which pressure
will be equal to that of the air itself, inasmuch as the steam will continue to escape from
the cylinder as long as its elastic force exceeds that of the atmosphere. In this manner the
alternate motion of the piston in the cylinder will be continued; the efficient force which
urges it being estimated by the excess of the actual pressure of the steam from the boiler
above the atmospheric pressure. The superior simplicity and lightness of the high-pressure
engine must now be apparent, and these qualities recommend it strongly for all purposes in
which the engine itself must be moved from place to place.

The steam-engine therefore consists of two distinct parts,--the boiler, which is at once the
generator and magazine of steam, and the cylinder with its piston, which is the instrument
by which this power is brought into operation and rendered effective. The amount of the load
or resistance which such a machine is capable of moving, depends upon the intensity or pressure
of the steam produced by the boiler, and on the magnitude of the surface of the piston in the
cylinder, upon which that steam acts. The rate or velocity of the motion depends, not on the
power or pressure of the steam, but on the rate at which the boiler is capable of generating
it. Every stroke of the piston consumes a cylinder full of steam; and of course the rate of
the motion depends upon the number of cylinders of steam which the boiler is capable of generating
in a given time. These are two points which it is essential should be distinctly understood,
in order to comprehend the relative merits of the boilers used in travelling steam-engines.

The motion which is primarily produced in a steam engine is a reciprocating or alternate motion
of the piston from end to end of the cylinder; but the motion which is necessary to be produced
for the purposes to which the engine is applied, is rarely or never of this nature. This primary
motion, therefore, is almost always modified by some machinery interposed between the piston
and the object to be moved. The motion most generally required is one of rotation, and this
is accomplished by connecting the extremity of the piston-rod with a contrivance constructed
on the revolving axle, called a crank. This contrivance does not differ in principle from the
common winch, or from the key which winds a clock. The motion of the piston-rod backwards and
forwards turns such a winch. At each termination of the stroke, the piston, from the peculiar
position of the crank, loses all power over it. To remedy this two cylinders and pistons are
generally used, which act upon two cranks placed on the axle at right angles to each other;
so that at the moment when one of the pistons is at the extremity of its stroke, and loses
its power upon one crank, the other piston is at the middle of its stroke, and in full operation
on the other crank. By these means an unremitting force is kept in action.

Edinburgh Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG.

BY ROBERT GILFILLAN, AUTHOR OF "ORIGINAL SONGS."

Tune.--"Gin a body meet a body."

  Bonnie lassie, fairest lassie,
    Dear art thou to me;
  Let me think, my bonnie lassie,
    I am lov'd by thee!

  I speak na of thy ringlets bright,
    Nor of thy witching 'ee;
  But this I'll tell thy bonnie sel',
    That dear art thou to me!

  O! beauty it is rare, lassie,
    And beauty it is thine,
  Yet my love is no for beauty's sake,
    'Tis just I wish thee mine!

  Thy smile might match an angel's smile,
    Gif such, save thee, there be;
  Yet though thy charms my bosom warms,
    I'll tell na them to thee!

  Thy sunny face has nature's grace,
    Thy form is winsome fair;
  But when for long thou'st heard that sang,
    O! wherefore hear it mair?

  Thy voice, soft as the hymn of morn,
    Or evening's melodie,
  May still excel, as a' can tell,
    Then wherefore hear't frae me?

  Bonnie lassie, fairest lassie,
    Think na't strange o' me,
  That when thy beauty's praised by a',
    Thou get'st nae praise frae me?

  For wha wad praise what none can praise?
    Yet, lassie, list to me;
  Gie me thy love, and in return
    I'll sing thy charms to thee!

Metropolitan.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTE GALLERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECORDS. BY THE AUTHOR OF "MONSIEUR TONSON."

An Odd Angler.

Dr. Birch was very fond of angling, and devoted much time to that amusement. In order to deceive
the fish, he had a dress constructed, which, when he put it on, made him appear like an old
tree. His arms he conceived would appear like branches, and the line like a long spray. In
this sylvan attire he used to take root by the side of a favourite stream, and imagined that
his motions might seem to the fish to be the effect of the wind.--He pursued this amusement
for some years in the same habit, till he was ridiculed out of it by his friends.

Jack Spencer.

It is said that he once contrived to collect a party of hunch-backed men to dine with him,
some of whom indignantly quitted the table. Another whimsical party which he assembled at his
house consisted merely of a number of persons all of whom stuttered; but this meeting at first
threatened serious consequences, for each supposed he was mocked by the other, and it was with
great difficulty that their host restored peace, by acknowledging the ludicrous purpose of
his invitation.

Dr. Johnson.

