But why not begin, at least, to make an effort in that  direction? The Latin races, in which
runs so much Celtic blood,  are powerful to organize, as the Romans of old, and the French
and Spaniards of to-day, have so often proved. The Irish have  been infused with plenty of
foreign blood, after their many  national catastrophes, although we believe that their primitive
characteristics have always overcome all foreign elements  introduced among them; and, what
the race could scarcely attempt  ages ado, is possible now. Moreover, there is nothing in the
leanings of race which may not be overcome, and sure without any  radical change a nation can
adapt itself to the necessities of  the time, and to altered circumstances. Let the Irish see
what  they might effect toward the resurrection of their native  country, if they only seriously
began at last to organize and  associate for that purpose. They would thus turn the immense
forces of their nation, now scattered over the world, to the  real advantage of their birthplace.
In union is strength; but  union can only be promoted by association, particularly when the
elements to be united are so far apart.

For such an object do we believe that God gave man in these late  days the destroyers of space--the
steam-engine and the electric  telegraph. Those powerful agents of unification were unknown
to  mankind until God decreed that his children dispersed through  the earth should be more
compactly united. To the Catholic they  were given, in the first place, to serve God's first
purpose by  making the Church firmer in her unity and more effective in the  propagation of
truth; but, after all, the mission of the Irish  to-day is only a branch of the mission of
the Church, and, if  only on that account, are the missionaries deserving of all  honor and
respect.

If in the designs of Providence the time has at last arrived for  the dwelling of the children
of Japhet in the tents of Sem, and  for putting an end to the terrible evils dating from the
dispersion at Babel and the confusion of tongues, the object of  these great scientific discoveries
is still more apparent. At  all events, organization and association are clearly needed for
the resurrection of Ireland, and the sooner a step is taken in  that direction the better.

But, what association would we propose? What should be its  immediate and most practicable
objects? These questions we do  not feel competent to answer. Let Irishmen be once convinced
that organization is the great lever to work for the raising up  of their down-trodden nation,
and they will know best how to use  this powerful instrument. The leaders of the nation in
that holy  enterprise should, in our own opinion, be its spiritual leaders.  They know their
country, and they love it; they undoubtedly  possess the confidence of their countrymen: they,
then, should  be the natural originators of those great schemes. And what  other leaders does
Ireland possess, what body like them,  acceptable to the nation, and neither to be bought by
money nor  office?

This first remark naturally presupposes another: that the object  of those associations, being
approved of by the religious guides  of the people, cannot be other than holy, and consequently
require no secrecy of any kind. They must be patent to the world, as not being antagonistic
to any established law or authority.  Every man desirous of becoming a member of the association
should know beforehand what is proposed to be done, and how far  his consent is to be given.

One other important point strikes us: the centre of organization  should be in Ireland. Ireland
is to be benefited by it, and  there the effort should naturally begin, where its results will
fall. As for the particular direction which those efforts should  take, the detail of the whole
enterprise, the plan of the  campaign--all this lies beyond us, and a sketch of it would most
probably be a mere chimera.

One concluding word may be said, however, on a subject which has  often been present to the
writer's mind: The fearful oppression  of the nation began by robbing the people of their lands
and  making them paupers: one of the first aims of association, then,  should evidently be
the raising of the people up by the  restoration, in great part at least, of the soil to the
native  race.

It is not our purpose to propose a new confiscation now, by way  of remedying the old ones;
but England has allowed them to buy  back the land of their fathers in the "Encumbered Estates
Courts, "and by the law recently passed which disestablished the Irish  Protestant Church?
Is there no room for a plan whereby Irishmen,  who have grown rich in foreign countries, may
become purchasers  of the land thus offered for sale? And, in reply to the natural  and powerful
objection to such a plan on the score of distance  from their native land, and the natural
repugnance to return and  live there, and break up new ties, which are now old, and have  made
them what they are, could not the fathers spare one son at  least, whom they might devote to
the noble purpose of becoming  Irish again, and settling on an Irish estate, and marrying 
there? This would seem an easy and simple manner of recreating a  Catholic gentry in the island.

This is merely a hint thrown out to exemplify what we mean by  associations for the purpose
of raising Ireland up again; the  many possible objects of national organization will occur
to any  mind giving a moment's reflection to it. This subject will  occupy our attention at
greater length in the next chapter.

CHAPTER XVI.

MORAL FORCE ALL-SUFFICIENT FOR THE RESURRECTION OF IRELAND

This chapter will be devoted to the island itself. For many  centuries it was happy in its
seclusion and separation from the  rest of Europe: in these days it necessarily forms a part
of the  whole mass of Japhetic races; its isolation is no longer  possible; and, in the opinion
of many, it is destined once again  to become a spot illustrious and happy. The consideration
of how  that lustre and happiness are to come upon it is the only task  still left us.

Whoever takes into consideration the advantages it already  enjoys, and compares its present
situation with that of a  hundred years back, cannot fail to be struck with the remarkable
change for the better which has taken place between the two  periods. Ireland still suffers,
and suffers sorely, and the  world still speaks with justice of her wrongs; but, in whatever
light they may appear to those who love their country, no one  can pretend that it still groans
under the weight of tyranny  which has formed the burden of her history. And, while  acknowledging
this beneficial change in her condition, they must  wonder at the same time how small was the
share which the  natives themselves had in bringing it about, although their  activity never
relaxed, and they had great and good men working  for their cause. What, in truth, did it?

The first point which claims our attention is how effectually  the moral force of what is called
liberal thought dealt a death- blow to the penal laws half a century before any of them were
erased from the statute book.

Liberal thought may be said to have originated in England,  whence it passed over to France,
to be disseminated and take  root throughout Europe by means of the mighty influence then 
exercised by the great nation. The chief object which animated  the minds of those who first
labored for its admission into  modern European principles is not for us to consider here.
There  is no doubt that this chief object was of a loosening and  deleterious nature: namely,
to ruin Christian faith, to change  all the old social and political axioms held by Christendom,
and  to create a new society imbued with what now goes by the name of  modern ideas. It is
not necessary to point out the frightful  imprudence as well as criminality of many of those
who were the  pioneers of the movement. We must only take the new principles  as a great fact,
destined yet to effect a radical change in the  ideas of men of all races, a change already
begun in Europe.

Liberal thought, we say, originated in England; and it would be  easy to show that there it
was the result partly of  Protestantism, partly of indifferentism, the ultimate  consequence
of the great principle of private judgment.

This became manifest in Great Britain, from the beginning of the  eighteenth century, and,
as was previously shown, what is called  the British Constitution was the result and outgrowth
of deep  political thought matured in minds indifferent to religion, of  men who were as little
Protestants as any thing else. But they  were deeply possessed by a sense of conservatism and
moderation  in the application of the most radical principles, which later  on the fiery Gallic
mind carried to their final and most  disastrous consequences.

But, in whatever garb it may have appeared, liberalism was  clearly the essence of the British
Constitution, as established  after all the civil and dynastic wars of the sixteenth and  seventeenth
centuries. The leaders of the English nation  happened at the time to be fully wedded to aristocratic
ideas,  and accordingly they refused to recognize all the consequences  of their principles,
and to see them carried out to the full.

It was admitted that the king reigned, but did not govern; that  the nation governed by its
representatives; that those  representatives were created by election; that a nation could
not be taxed without its free consent; that thought, religious  thought chiefly, was free;
that toleration, therefore, could  admit of no exception in point of religious doctrine; and
all  the other modern principles which have at length been admitted,  though not always observed,
as governmental axioms by all  European nations.

As long as those axioms were in the close keeping of English  patricians, some of their consequences
were far from being fully  evolved; but certain Frenchmen, Voltaire among others, happening
to cross the Straits of Dover, returned with them, and, the  wretched government of Louis XV
being not only too weak to  withstand, but even conniving at, the boldness of the new  philosophers,
the French language, which was then spoken all  over Europe, carried with it from mouth to
mouth the new and  fascinating doctrine of the emancipation of thought.

None of those writers, indeed, undertook to plead the cause of  unfortunate Ireland. Voltaire
threw the whole of France into  agitation, nay, all Europe, to the wilds of Russia, by taking
up  the case of the Protestant Calas, who was condemned to death and  executed unjustly, as
it seems, for the supposed murder of a son  who was inclined to embrace Catholicity; but never
a word did he  speak of the suffering which at that time had settled down over  the whole Irish
nation solely for the crime of its religious  convictions.

Nevertheless, toleration became the catchword with all. It rang  out loudly from a thousand
French pamphlets and ponderous tomes;  it was caught up and echoed back from England; it penetrated
the  unkindly atmosphere of Russia even, and was silently pondered  over under the rule of
an unbelieving despot.

It was impossible for Ireland not to derive some benefit from  all this. It took a long time,
indeed, for emancipation of  thought to cross that narrow channel which divided the "sister"
islands; for, at the precise period when the doctrine was loudest in France, the most atrocious
penal laws were being executed in Ireland, and there seemed no hope for the suffering nation.

