Dotinchem (Vol. viii., p. 151.).--Dotinchem appears to be the place which is called Deutichem
in the map of the Netherlands and Belgian, published by the Useful Knowledge Society in 1843,
and Deutekom in the map of the kingdom of the Netherlands, published by the same society in
1830. Moreri spells the name Dotechem, Dotekom, and Dotekum. It is situated on the Yssel, south-east
of Doesburg.

B. J.

Reversible Names and Words (Vol. viii., p. 244.).--I cannot call to mind any such propria mascula:
but I think I can cast a doubt on your correspondent's crotchet. Surely our civic authorities
(not even excepting the Mayor) are veritable males, though sometimes deserving the sobriquet
of "old women." Surveyors, builders, carpenters, {376} and bricklayers are the only persons
who use the level. On board ship, it is the males who professionally attend at the poop. Our
foreign-looking friend rotator, at once suggestive of certain celebrated personages in the
lower house, is by termination masculine; and such members, in times of political probation,
never fail to show themselves evitative rather than plucky.

But some words are reversible in sense as well as in orthography. If a man draw "on" me, I
should be to blame if at least I did not ward "off" the blow. Whom should we repel sooner than
the leper? Who will live hereafter, if he be a doer of evil? We should always seek to deliver
him who is being reviled. Even Shakspeare was aware of the fact, that it is a God who breeds
magots in a dead dog (vide Hamlet). "Cum multis aliis." The art of composing palindromes is
one, at least, as instructive as, and closely allied to, that of de-ciphering. If any one calls
the compositions in question "trash," I cannot better answer than in palindrome, Trash? even
interpret Nineveh's art! for the deciphering of the cuneiform character is both a respectable
and a useful exercise of ingenuity. The English language, however, is not susceptible of any
great amount of palindromic compositions. The Latin is, of all, the best adapted for that fancy.
I append an inscription for a hospital, which is a paraphrase of a verse in the Psalms:

    "Acide me malo, sed non desola me, medica."

I doubt whether such compositions should ever be characterised by the term sotadic. Sotadic
verses were, I believe, restricted to indecent love-songs.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

Detached Church Towers (Vol. vii. passim; Vol. viii., p. 63.).--At Morpeth, in Northumberland,
the old parish church stands on an eminence at the distance of a mile from the town. In the
market-place is a square clock tower, the bells in which are used for ordinary parochial purposes.

At Kirkoswald, in Cumberland, where the church stands low, the belfry has been erected on an
adjoining hill.

E. H. A.

Bishop Ferrar (Vol. viii., p. 103.).--Bishop Ferrar, martyred in Queen Mary's reign, was not
of the same family with the Ferrers, Earl of Derby and Nottingham. Was your correspondent led
to think so from the fact of the martyr having been originally a bishop of the Isle of Man?

A LINEAL DESCENDANT OF THE MARTYR.

Cambridge.

"They shot him by the nine stone rig" (Vol. viii., p. 78.).--This fragmentary ballad is to
be found in the Border Minstrelsy. It was contributed by R. Surtees of Mainsforth, co. Durham,
and described by him as having been taken down from the recitation of Anne Douglas, an old
woman who weeded in his garden. It is however most likely that it is altogether factitious,
and Mr. Surtees' own production, Anne Douglas being a pure invention.

The ballad called "The Fray of Haltwhistle," a portion of which, "How the Thirlwalls and the
Ridleys a'," &c., is interwoven with the text in the first canto of Marmion, is generally understood
to have been composed by Mr. Surtees. He, however, succeeded in palming it upon Scott as a
genuine old ballad; and states that he had it from the recitation of an ancient dame, mother
of one of the miners of Alston Moor. Scott's taste for old legends and ballads was certainly
not too discriminating, or he would never have swallowed "The Fray of Haltwhistle." Perhaps
he suspected its authenticity, for he says of it:

 "Scantily Lord Marmion's ear could brook
    The harper's barbarous lay."

T. D. RIDLEY.

Punning Devices (Vol. viii., p. 270.).--In the 4th volume of Surtees' History of Durham, p.
48., there is an account of the Orchard Chamber in Sledwish Hall:

    "In the centre is a shield of the arms of Clopton; being two coats
    quarterly, a lion rampant and a cross pattée fitchée; over all, a
    crescent for difference.[1] On two other shields, impressed from one
    mould, are the initials E. C., the date 1584, and a tun with a rose
    clapt on."[2]

OLD GRUMBLEUM.

[Footnote 1: This note says the arms are reversed, being impressed from a mould.]

[Footnote 2: "The crest of Clopton is a falcon clapping his wings, and rising from a tun; and
I verily believe the rose clapt on to be the miserable quibble intended."]

Ashman's Park--Wingfield's Portrait (Vol. viii., p. 299.).-Could any correspondent in Suffolk
inform me if Ashman's Park has been sold; and if the pictures are anywhere to be found, especially
that of Sir Anthony Wingfield? The communication of H. C. K. relative to the above subject
is very interesting.

Q.

"Crowns have their compass," &c. (Vol. iv., p. 428.).--In the well-known lines attributed to
Shakspeare, and quoted in the above volume, the third stands thus:

 "Of more than earth can earth make none partaker."

I find that Quarles has borrowed this in his Emblems, book i. Emblem vi.:

 "Of more than earth can earth make none possest."

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia.

{377}

Ampers & (Vol. ii., pp.230. 284.; Vol. viii., pp. 173. 223. 284.).--Allow me to thank both
[Phi]. and MR. HENRY WALTER for their replies to my Query; but I am unhappily no wiser than
MR. LOWER was after [Phi].'s first response. What on earth "et-per-se" or "and-per-se-and"
can mean, I am at a loss to imagine. Why should et be called "et by itself?" Until this Query
is answered, I am as much in the dark as ever. While I am upon the matter, I would farther
ask this mysterious Ampers and, "who gave thee that name?" May it find a proxy to answer for it!

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

The origin of this expression is, explained in Vol. ii., p. 318. With regard to the orthography
of the word, it seems to me that, if the etymon be followed, it ought to be written and-per-se-and;
if the pronunciation, ampussy and.

L.

Throwing Old Shoes for Luck (Vol. vii., p. 411.).--There is an old rhyme still extant, which
gives an early date to this singular custom:

     "When Britons bold,
      Wedded of old,
  Sandals were backward thrown,
      The pair to tell,
      That, ill or well
  The act was all their own."

An octogenarian of my acquaintance informs me that he heard himself thus anathematised when,
leaving his native village with his bride, he refused to comply with the extortionate demands
of an Irish beggar:

 "Then it's bad luck goes wid yer,
    For my shoe I toss,
  An ye niver come back,
   'Twill be no great loss."

CHARLES REED.

Ennui (Vol. vii., p. 478.).--It is a curious fact that in English, properly so called, we have
no word to express this certainly un-English sensation, which we are obliged to borrow from
our friends across the channel. They repay themselves with "comfortable," which is quite as
characteristically wanting in their vocabulary: so they lose nothing by the exchange. Were
we disposed to supply the gaps in our language, by using our own native words (which is much
to be desired), we might find a sufficient (and I believe the only) synonyme in the Bedfordshire
folk-word unked: at any rate, it is near enough for us, for we neither require the word nor
the feeling it is meant to designate.

E. S. TAYLOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

FORD'S HANDBOOK OF SPAIN. Vol. I.

AUSTIN CHEIRONOMIA.

REV. E. IRVING'S ORATIONS ON DEATH, JUDGMENT, HEAVEN, AND HELL.

THOMAS GARDENER'S HISTORY OF DUNWICH.

MARSH'S HISTORY OF HURSLEY AND BADDESLEY. About 1805. 8vo. Two Copies.

NICEPHORUS CATENA ON THE PENTATEUCH.

PROCOPIUS GAZÆUS.

WATT'S BIBLIOGRAPHIA BRITANNICA. Parts V. and VI.

CARLYLE'S CHARTISM. Crown 8vo. 2nd Edition.

THE BUILDER, No. 520.

OSWALLI CROLLII OPERA. 12mo. Geneva, 1635.

GAFFARELL'S UNHEARD-OF CURIOSITIES. Translated by Chelmead. London. 12mo. 1650.

PAMPHLETS.

JUNIUS DISCOVERED. By P. T. Published about 1789.

REASONS FOR REJECTING THE EVIDENCE OF MR. ALMON, &c. 1807.

ANOTHER GUESS AT JUNIUS. Hookham. 1809.

THE AUTHOR OF JUNIUS DISCOVERED. Longmans. 1821.

THE CLAIMS OF SIR P. FRANCIS REFUTED. Longmans. 1822.

WHO WAS JUNIUS? Glynn. 1837.

SOME NEW FACTS, &c., by Sir F. Dwarris. 1850. Oxford, 1724.

POINTER'S ACCOUNT OF A ROMAN PAVEMENT AT STUNSFIELD, OXON. Oxford, 1713.

ROMAN STATIONS IN BRITAIN. London, 1726.

A SURVEY OF ROMAN ANTIQUITIES IN SOME MIDLAND COUNTIES. London, 1726.

    Wanted by Rev. J. W. Hewett, Bloxham, Banbury.

       *       *       *       *       *

THEOBALD'S SHAKSPEARE RESTORED. 4to. 1726.

G. MACROPEDII, HECASTUS, FABULA. Antwerp, 1539. 8vo.

G. MACROPEDII, FABULÆ COMICÆ. 2 Tom. 8vo. Utrecht, 1552.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDICATIONS OF SPRING, by Robt. Marsham, Esq., F.R.S.

THE VILLAGE CURATE, by Hurdis.

CALENDAR OF FLORA, by Stillingfleete.

    Wanted by J. B. Whitborne, 54. Russell Terrace, Leamington.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notices to Correspondents.

BOOKS WANTED. We believe that gentlemen in want of particular books, either by way of loan
or purchase, would find great facilities in obtaining them if their names and addresses were
published, so that parties having the books might communicate directly with those who want
them. Acting on this belief, we shall take advantage of the recent alteration in the law respecting
advertisements, and in future, where our Correspondents desire to avail themselves of this
new arrangement, shall insert their names and addresses--unless specially requested not to do so.

ALL COMMUNICATIONS should be addressed to the Editor, to the care of Mr. Bell, 186. Fleet Street.
They should be distinctly written; and care should be taken that all Quotations are copied
with accuracy: and in all cases of References to Books the editions referred to should be specified.
Every distinct subject should form a separate communication; all inquiries respecting communications
forwarded for insertion should specify the subjects of such communications.

ARTERUS (Dublin) has not replied to our inquiry as to the book from which he has transcribed
the Latin verses which form the subject of his Query.

OUR PROSPECTUS has been reprinted at the suggestion of several Correspondents, and we shall
be happy to forward copies to any friends who may desire to assist us by circulating them.

SEMPER PARATUS. We cannot afford the information desired. Out Correspondent would probably
be more successful on application to the editor of the paper referred to.

{378}

J. R. (Bangor), who inquires respecting Vox Populi Vox Dei, is informed that the proverb is
found in William of Malmesbury; and is referred for its history to "N. & Q." Vol. i., pp. 370.
419. 492.; Vol. iii., pp. 288. 381.; and M. Cornewall Lewis' Essay on the Influence of Authority
in Matters of Opinion, p. 172.

S. A. S. is thanked. His hint will not be lost sight of.

A. Z. We have received a Pedigree of the Reynolds Family for this Correspondent; where shall
it be sent?

