Seleucus, king of Syria, held all the lands from Persia to Asia Minor. His capital was Antioch,
in Syria, which he had built and named after his son Antiochus, and which became a very splendid
and beautiful city, full of a light-minded, merry people, fond of games and shows.  He built
many other places, calling them after himself or his son, and placing Greeks to live in them.
Thus, though Alexander only reigned twelve years, he had made a great difference to the world,
for the Greek language, learning, and habits were spread all over the East, and every well-taught
person was brought up in them.  So that, while the grand old Greek states were in bondage,
and produced no more great men, their teachings had spread farther than they ever thought.

                  [Picture: Decorative chapter heading]

CHAP. XXXIII—PYRRHUS, KING OF EPIRUS.  B.C. 287.

To the westward of Greece lay a mountainous land, bordered by the Adriatic Sea, and in old
times called Epirus.  The people spoke a sort of barbarous Greek, worse than that of the Macedonians;
but the royal family were pure Greeks, and believed themselves to be descended from Achilles;
and Alexander’s mother, Olympias, had been one of them.  In the wars and confusion that followed
upon Alexander’s death, the Epirot king, Æacides, took part, and this led to a rising against
him, ending in his being killed, with all his family, except his little two-year-old son, named
Pyrrhus, who was saved by some faithful servants.  They fled towards the city of Megara, on
the border of Macedon, but they only reached it late at night, and there was a rough and rapid
river between, swelled by rains.  They called to the people on the other side, and held up
the little child, but the rushing of the river drowned their voices, and their words were not
understood.  At last one of them peeled off a piece of bark from an oak tree, and scratched
on it with the tongue of a buckle an account of their distress, and, fastening it to a stone,
threw it over.  The Megarians immediately made a sort of raft with trees, and, floating over,
brought little Pyrrhus and his friends across; but finding Macedon not safe, since Cassander
had been the enemy of Æacides, they went on to Illyria, where they found the king, Glaucias,
sitting with his queen.  Putting the child on the ground, they began to tell their story. At
first the king was unwilling to grant him shelter, being afraid of Cassander; but the little
fellow, crawling about, presently came near, and, laying hold of his leg, pulled himself upon
his feet, and looked up in his face.  The pretty, unconscious action of a suppliant so moved
Glaucias that he took him up in his arms, and gave him into those of the queen, bidding her
have him bred up among their own children; and though Cassander offered 200 talents, he would
not give up the boy.

When Pyrrhus was twelve years old, Glaucias sent an army to restore him to his throne, and
guarded him there.  He was high-spirited, brave, and gracious, but remarkable-looking, from
his upper teeth being all in one, without divisions.  When he was seventeen, while he was gone
to Illyria to the wedding of one of Glaucias’ sons, his subjects rose against him, and made
one of his cousins king.  He then went to Demetrius, who had married his elder sister, and
fought under him at the battle of Ipsus; after which Demetrius sent him as a hostage to Alexandria,
and his grace and spirit made him so great a favourite with Ptolemy that he gave him his step-daughter
Berenice in marriage, and helped him to raise an army with which he recovered his kingdom of
Epirus.

He had not long been settled there before the Macedonians, who had begun to hate Demetrius,
heard such accounts of Pyrrhus’ kindness as a man and skill as a warrior, that the next time
a war broke out they all deserted Demetrius, who was forced to fly in the disguise of a common
soldier, and his wife poisoned herself in despair.  However, Demetrius did not lose courage,
but left his son Antigonus to protect Greece, and went into Asia Minor, hoping to win back
some of his father’s old kingdom from Seleucus, but he could get nobody to join him; and after
wandering about in hunger and distress in the Cilician mountains, he was forced to give himself
up a prisoner to Seleucus, who kept him in captivity, but treated him kindly, and let him hunt
in the royal park.  His son Antigonus, however, who still held Greece, wrote to offer himself
as a hostage, that his father might be set free; but before he could reach Syria, Demetrius
the City-taker had died of over-eating and drinking in his captivity, and only the urn containing
his ashes could be sent to his son in Greece.

Pyrrhus had not kept Macedon long, for Lysimachus attacked him, and the fickle Macedonians
all went over to the Thracian, so that he was obliged to retreat into his own kingdom of Epirus;
whilst Seleucus and Lysimachus began a war, in which Lysimachus was killed; and thus both Thrace
and Macedon were in the hands of Seleucus, who is therefore commonly called the Conqueror.
He was the last survivor of all Alexander’s generals, and held all his empire except Egypt;
but while taking possession of Macedonia he was murdered by a vile Egyptian Greek, whom he
had befriended, named Ptolemy Keraunus.  This man, in the confusion that followed, managed
to make himself king of Macedon.

But just at this time the Kelts, or Gauls, the same race who used to dwell in Britain and Gaul,
made one of their great inroads from the mountains.  The Macedonians thought them mere savages,
easy to conquer; but it turned out quite otherwise.  The Kelts defeated them entirely, cut
off Ptolemy Keraunus’ head, and carried it about upon a pole, and overran all Thrace and Macedon.
Then they advanced to the Pass of Thermopylæ, found the way over Mount Œta by which Xerxes
had surprised the Spartans, and were about to plunder Delphi, their Bran, or chief, being reported
to say that the gods did not want riches as much as men did.  The Greeks, in much grief for
their beloved sanctuary, assembled to fight for it, and they were aided by a terrible storm
and earthquake, which dismayed the Gauls, so that the next morning they were in a dispirited
state, and could not stand against the Greeks.  The Bran was wounded, and finding that the
battle was lost, called the other chiefs round him, advised them to kill all the wounded men,
and make their retreat as best they might, and then stabbed himself to set the example.  The
others tried to retreat, but were set upon by the Greeks, tormented, and starved; and it is
said that all who had marched to Delphi perished, and the only Gauls of all this host who survived
were a party who had crossed the Hellespont, and made a settlement in the very heart of Asia
Minor, where they were known by the name of Galatians, and still kept up their own language.

                [Picture: Delphi and the Castalian Fount]

When they had thus cut off Keraunus, Antigonus came from Greece, and took possession of Macedon.
He made a treaty with Antiochus, who had succeeded his father Seleucus in Syria, and thenceforth
the family founded by Antigonus the One-eyed held Macedon.  This Antigonus is called Gonatas,
from the name of a guard for the knee which he wore.

