She was sure that Stephen Knight and his friend would prevent her from leaving Algiers with
strangers, above all, in the company of Arabs, if they could know what was in her mind. But
they were unjustly prejudiced, she thought. Her brother-in-law was of Arab blood, therefore
she could not afford to have such prejudices, even if she were so inclined; and she must not
hesitate before such a chance as Si Maïeddine offered.

The great difficulty she had experienced in learning anything about Ben Halim made it easy
for her to believe that she could reach her sister's husband only through people of his own
race, who knew his secrets. She was ready to agree with Si Maïeddine that his God and her God
had sent him at the right moment, and she would not let that moment pass her by.

Others might say that she was wildly imprudent, that she was deliberately walking into danger;
but she was not afraid. Always she trusted to her star, and now it had brought her to Algiers,
she would not weaken in that trust. Common sense, in which one side of the girl's nature was
not lacking, told her that this Arab might be deceiving her, that he might know no more of
Ben Halim than she herself had told him yesterday; but she felt that he had spoken the truth,
and feelings were more to her than common sense. She would go to the house which Si Maïeddine
said was the house of his cousin, and if there she found reason to doubt him, she had faith
that even then no evil would be allowed to touch her.

At seven o'clock, Si Maïeddine said, Lella M'Barka would send a carriage. It would then be
twilight, and as most people were in their homes by that hour, nobody would be likely to see
her leave the hotel. The shutters of the carriage would be closed, according to the custom
of Arab ladies, and on entering the vehicle Victoria would find a negress, a servant of Lella
M'Barka Bent Djellab. This woman would dress her in a gandourah and a haïck, while they were
on their way to the house of Victoria's hostess, and on stepping out she would have the appearance
of a lady of Algiers. Thus all trace of her would be lost, as one Arab carriage was exactly
like another.

Meanwhile, there would be time to pack, and write a letter which Victoria was determined to
write. To satisfy Si Maïeddine that she would not be indiscreet in any admission or allusion,
she suggested translating for him every word she wrote into French or Arabic; but he refused
this offer with dignity. She trusted him. He trusted her also. But he himself would post the
letter at an hour too late for it to be delivered while she was still in Algiers.

It was arranged that she should carry only hand-bags, as it would be too conspicuous to load
and unload boxes. Her large luggage could be stored at the hotel until she returned or sent,
and as Lella M'Barka intended to offer her an outfit suitable to a young Arab girl of noble
birth, she need take from the hotel only her toilet things.

So it was that Victoria wrote to Stephen Knight, and was ready for the second stage of what
seemed the one great adventure to which her whole life had been leading up.

XIX

Victoria did not wait in her room to be told that the carriage had come to take her away. It
was better, Si Maïeddine had said, that only a few people should know the exact manner of her
going. A few minutes before seven, therefore, she went down to the entrance-hall of the hotel,
which was not yet lighted. Her appearance was a signal for the Arab porter, who was waiting,
to run softly upstairs and return with her hand luggage.

For some moments Victoria stood near the door, interesting herself in a map of Algeria which
hung on the wall. A clock began to strike as her eyes wandered over the desert, and was on
the last stroke of seven, when a carriage drove up. It was drawn by two handsome brown mules
with leather and copper harness which matched the colour of their shining coats, and was driven
by a heavy, smooth-faced Negro in a white turban and an embroidered cafetan of dark blue. The
carriage windows were shuttered, and as the black coachman pulled up his mules, he looked neither
to the right nor to the left. It was the hotel porter who opened the door, and as Victoria
stepped in without delay, he thrust two hand-bags after her, snapping the door sharply.

It was almost dark inside the carriage, but she could see a white figure, which in the dimness
had neither face nor definite shape; and there was a perfume as of aromatic amulets grown warm
on a human body.

"Pardon, lady, I am Hsina, the servant of Lella M'Barka Bent Djellab, sent to wait upon thee,"
spoke a soft and guttural voice, in Arabic. "Blessings be upon thee!"

"And upon thee blessings," Victoria responded in the Arab fashion which she had learned while
many miles of land and sea lay between her and the country of Islam. "I was told to expect thee."

"Eïhoua!" cried the woman, "The little pink rose has the gift of tongues!" As she grew accustomed
to the twilight, Victoria made out a black face, and white teeth framed in a large smile. A
pair of dark eyes glittered with delight as the Roumia answered in Arabic, although Arabic
was not the language of the negress's own people. She chattered as she helped Victoria into
a plain white gandourah. The white hat and hat-pins amused her, and when she had arranged the
voluminous haïck in spite of the joltings of the carriage, she examined these European curiosities
with interest. Whenever she moved, the warm perfume of amulets grew stronger, overpowering
the faint mustiness of the cushions and upholstery.

"Never have I held such things in my hands!" Hsina gurgled. "Yet often have I wished that I
might touch them, when driving with my mistress and peeping at the passers by, and the strange
finery of foreign women in the French bazaars."

Victoria listened politely, answering if necessary; yet her interest was concentrated in peering
through the slits in the wooden shutter of the nearest window. She did not know Algiers well
enough to recognize landmarks; but after driving for what seemed like fifteen or twenty minutes
through streets where lights began to turn the twilight blue, she caught a glint of the sea.
Almost immediately the trotting mules stopped, and the negress Hsina, hiding Victoria's hat
in the folds of her haïck, turned the handle of the door.

Victoria looked out into azure dusk, and after the closeness of the shuttered carriage, thankfully
drew in a breath of salt-laden air. One quick glance showed her a street near the sea, on a
level not much above the gleaming water. There were high walls, evidently very old, hiding
Arab mansions once important, and there were other ancient dwellings, which had been partly
transformed for business or military uses by the French. The girl's hasty impression was of
a melancholy neighbourhood which had been rich and stately long ago in old pirate days, perhaps.

There was only time for a glance to right and left before a nailed door opened in the flatness
of a whitewashed wall which was the front of an Arab house. No light shone out, but the opening
of the door proved that some one had been listening for the sound of carriage wheels.

"Descend, lady. I will follow with thy baggage," said Hsina.

The girl obeyed, but she was suddenly conscious of a qualm as she had to turn from the blue
twilight, to pass behind that half-open door into darkness, and the mystery of unknown things.

Before she had time to put her foot to the ground the door was thrown wide open, and two stout
Negroes dressed exactly alike in flowing white burnouses stepped out of the house to stand
on either side the carriage door. Raising their arms as high as their heads they made two white
walls of their long cloaks between which Victoria could pass, as if enclosed in a narrow aisle.
Hsina came close upon her heels; and as they reached the threshold of the house the white-robed
black servants dropped their arms, followed the two women, and shut the nailed door. Then,
despite the dimness of the place, they bowed their heads turning aside as if humbly to make
it evident that their unworthy eyes did not venture to rest upon the veiled form of their mistress's
guest. As for Hsina, she, too, was veiled, though her age and ugliness would have permitted
her face to be revealed without offence to Mussulman ideas of propriety. It was mere vanity
on her part to preserve the mystery as dear to the heart of the Moslem woman as to the jealous
prejudice of the man.

A faint glittering of the walls told Victoria that the corridor she had entered was lined with
tiles; and she could dimly see seats let in like low shelves along its length, on either side.
It was but a short passage, with a turn into a second still shorter. At the end of this hung
a dark curtain, which Hsina lifted for Victoria to pass on, round another turn into a wider
hall, lit by an Arab lamp with glass panes framed in delicately carved copper. The chain which
suspended it from cedar beams swayed slightly, causing the light to move from colour to colour
of the old tiles, and to strike out gleams from the marble floor and ivory-like pillars set
into the walls. The end of this corridor also was masked by a curtain of wool, dyed and woven
by the hands of nomad tribes, tent-dwellers in the desert; and when Hsina had lifted it, Victoria
saw a small square court with a fountain in the centre.

It was not on a grand scale, like those in the palace owned by Nevill Caird; but the fountain
was graceful and charming, ornamented with the carved, bursting pomegranates beloved by the
Moors of Granada, and the marble columns which supported a projecting balcony were wreathed
with red roses and honeysuckle.

On each of the four sides of the quadrangle, paved with black and white marble, there were
little windows, and large glass doors draped on the inside with curtains thin enough to show
faint pink and golden lights.

"O my mistress, Lella M'Barka, I have brought thy guest!" cried Hsina, in a loud, sing-song
voice, as if she were chanting; whereupon one of the glass doors opened, letting out a rosy
radiance, and a Bedouin woman-servant dressed in a striped foutah appeared on the threshold.
She was old, with crinkled grey hair under a scarlet handkerchief, and a blue cross was tattooed
between her eyes.

"In the name of Lella M'Barka be thou welcome," she said. "My mistress has been suffering all
day, and fears to rise, lest her strength fail for to-morrow's journey, or she would come forth
to meet thee, O Flower of the West! As it is, she begs that thou wilt come to her. But first
suffer me to remove thy haïck, that the eyes of Lella M'Barka may be refreshed by thy beauty."

She would have unfastened the long drapery, but Hsina put down Victoria's luggage, and pushing
away the two brown hands, tattooed with blue mittens, she herself unfastened the veil. "No,
this is my lady, and my work, Fafann," she objected.

"But it is my duty to take her in," replied the Bedouin woman, jealously. "It is the wish of
Lella M'Barka. Go thou and make ready the room of the guest."

Hsina flounced away across the court, and Fafann held open both the door and the curtains.
Victoria obeyed her gesture and went into the room beyond. It was long and narrow, with a ceiling
of carved wood painted in colours which had once been violent, but were now faded. The walls
were partly covered with hangings like the curtains that shaded the glass door; but, on one
side, between gold-embroidered crimson draperies, were windows, and in the white stucco above,
showed lace-like openings, patterned to represent peacocks, the tails jewelled with glass of
different colours. On the opposite side opened doors of dark wood inlaid with mother-o'-pearl;
and these stood ajar, revealing rows of shelves littered with little gilded bottles, or piled
with beautiful brocades that were shot with gold in the pink light of an Arab lamp.

There was little furniture; only a few low, round tables, or maidas, completely overlaid with
the snow of mother-o'-pearl; two or three tabourets of the same material, and, at one end of
the room a low divan, where something white and orange-yellow and purple lay half buried in
cushions.

Though the light was dim, Victoria could see as she went nearer a thin face the colour of pale
amber, and a pair of immense dark eyes that glittered in deep hollows. A thin woman of more
than middle age, with black hair, silver-streaked, moved slightly and held out an emaciated
hand heavy with rings. Her head was tied round with a silk handkerchief or takrita of pansy
purple; she wore seroual, full trousers of soft white silk, and under a gold-threaded orange-coloured
jacket or rlila, a blouse of lilac gauze, covered with sequins and open at the neck. On the
bony arm which she held out to Victoria hung many bracelets, golden serpents of Djebbel Amour,
and pearls braided with gold wire and coral beads. Her great eyes, ringed with kohl, had a
tortured look, and there were hollows under the high cheek-bones. If she had ever been handsome,
all beauty of flesh had now been drained away by suffering; yet stricken as she was there remained
an almost indefinable distinction, an air of supreme pride befitting a princess of the Sahara.

Her scorching fingers pressed Victoria's hand, as she gazed up at the girl's face with hungry
curiosity and interest such as the Spirit of Death might feel in looking at the Spirit of Life.

"Thou art fresh and fair, O daughter, as a lily bud opening in the spray of a fountain, and
radiant as sunrise shining on a desert lake," she said in a weary voice, slightly hoarse, yet
with some flutelike notes. "My cousin spoke but truth of thee. Thou art worthy of a reward
at the end of that long journey we shall take together, thou, and he, and I. I have never seen
thy sister whom thou seekest, but I have friends, who knew her in other days. For her sake
and thine own, kiss me on my cheeks, for with women of my race, it is the seal of friendship."

Victoria bent and touched the faded face under each of the great burning eyes. The perfume
of ambre, loved in the East, came up to her nostrils, and the invalid's breath was aflame.

"Art thou strong enough for a journey, Lella M'Barka?" the girl asked.

"Not in my own strength, but in that which Allah will give me, I shall be strong," the sick
woman answered with controlled passion. "Ever since I knew that I could not hope to reach Mecca,
and kiss the sacred black stone, or pray in the Mosque of the holy Lella Fatima, I have wished
to visit a certain great marabout in the south. The pity of Allah for a daughter who is weak
will permit the blessing of this marabout, who has inherited the inestimable gift of Baraka,
to be the same to me, body and soul, as the pilgrimage to Mecca which is beyond the power of
my flesh. Another must say for me the Fatakah there. I believe that I shall be healed, and
have vowed to give a great feast if I return to Algiers, in celebration of the miracle. Had
it not been for my cousin's wish that I should go with thee, I should not have felt that the
hour had come when I might face the ordeal of such a journey to the far south. But the prayer
of Si Maïeddine, who, after his father, is the last man left of his line, has kindled in my
veins a fire which I thought had burnt out forever. Have no fear, daughter. I shall be ready
to start at dawn to-morrow."

"Does the marabout who has the gift of Baraka live near the place where I must go to find my
sister?" Victoria inquired, rather timidly; for she did not know how far she might venture
to question Si Maïeddine's cousin.

Lella M'Barka looked at her suddenly and strangely. Then her face settled into a sphinx-like
expression, as if she had been turned to stone. "I shall be thy companion to the end of thy
journey," she answered in a dull, tired tone. "Wilt thou visit thy room now, or wilt thou remain
with me until Fafann and Hsina bring thy evening meal? I hope that thou wilt sup here by my
side: yet if it pains thee to take food near one in ill health, who does not eat, speak, and
thou shalt be served in another place."

Victoria hastened to protest that she would prefer to eat in the company of her hostess, which
seemed to please Lella M'Barka. She began to ask the girl questions about herself, complimenting
her upon her knowledge of Arabic; and Victoria answered, though only half her brain seemed
to be listening. She was glad that she had trusted Si Maïeddine, and she felt safe in the house
of his cousin; but now that she was removed from European influences, she could not see why
the mystery concerning Ben Halim and the journey which would lead to his house, should be kept
up. She had read enough books about Arab customs and superstitions to know that there are few
saints believed to possess the gift of Baraka, the power given by Allah for the curing of all
fleshly ills. Only the very greatest of the marabouts are supposed to have this power, receiving
it direct from Allah, or inheriting it from a pious saint--father or more distant relative--who
handed down the maraboutship. Therefore, if she had time and inclination, she could probably
learn from any devout Mussulman the abiding places of all such famous saints as remained upon
the earth. In that way, by setting her wits to work, she might guess the secret if Si Maïeddine
still tried to make a mystery of their destination. But, somehow, she felt that it would not
be fair to seek information which he did not want her to have. She must go on trusting him,
and by and by he would tell her all she wanted to know.

Lella M'Barka had invited her guest to sit on cushions beside the divan where she lay, and
the interest in her feverish eyes, which seldom left Victoria's face, was so intense as to
embarrass the girl.

"Thou hast wondrous hair," she said, "and when it is unbound it must be a fountain of living
gold. Is it some kind of henna grown in thy country, which dyes it that beautiful colour?"

Victoria told her that Nature alone was the dyer.

"Thou art not yet affianced; that is well," murmured the invalid. "Our young girls have their
hair tinted with henna when they are betrothed, that they may be more fair in the eyes of their
husbands. But thou couldst scarcely be lovelier than thou art; for thy skin is of pearl, though
there is no paint upon it, and thy lips are pink as rose petals. Yet a little messouak to make
them scarlet, like coral, and kohl to give thine eyes lustre would add to thy brilliancy. Also
the hand of woman reddened with henna is as a brazier of rosy flame to kindle the heart of
a lover. When thou seest thy sister, thou wilt surely find that she has made herself mistress
of these arts, and many more."

"Canst thou tell me nothing of her, Lella M'Barka?"

"Nothing, save that I have a friend who has said she was fair. And it is not many moons since
I heard that she was blessed with health."

"Is she happy?" Victoria was tempted to persist.

"She should be happy. She is a fortunate woman. Would I could tell thee more, but I live the
life of a mole in these days, and have little knowledge. Thou wilt see her with thine own eyes
before long, I have no doubt. And now comes food which my women have prepared for thee. In
my house, all are people of the desert, and we keep the desert customs, since my husband has
been gathered to his fathers--my husband, to whose house in Algiers I came as a bride from
the Sahara. Such a meal as thou wilt eat to-night, mayst thou eat often with a blessing, in
the country of the sun."

Fafann, who had softly left the room when the guest had been introduced, now came back, with
great tinkling of khal-khal, and mnaguach, the huge earrings which hung so low as to strike
the silver beads twisted round her throat. She was smiling, and pleasantly excited at the presence
of a visitor whose arrival broke the tiresome monotony of an invalid's household. When she
had set one of the pearly maidas in front of Victoria's seat of cushions, she held back the
curtains for Hsina to enter, carrying a copper tray. This the negress placed on the maida,
and uncovered a china bowl balanced in a silver stand, like a giant coffee cup of Moorish fashion.
It contained hot soup, called cheurba, in which Hsina had put so much fell-fell, the red pepper
loved by Arabs, that Victoria's lips were burned. But it was good, and she would not wince
though the tears stung her eyes as she drank, for Lella M'Barka and the two servants were watching
her eagerly.

Afterwards came a kouskous of chicken and farina, which she ate with a large spoon whose bowl
was of tortoiseshell, the handle of ivory tipped with coral. Then, when the girl hoped there
might be nothing more, appeared tadjine, a ragout of mutton with artichokes and peas, followed
by a rich preserve of melon, and many elaborate cakes iced with pink and purple sugar, and
powdered with little gold sequins that had to be picked off as the cake was eaten. At last,
there was thick, sweet coffee, in a cup like a little egg-shell supported in filigree gold
(for no Mussulman may touch lip to metal), and at the end Fafann poured rosewater over Victoria's
fingers, wiping them on a napkin of fine damask.

"Now thou hast eaten and drunk, thou must allow thyself to be dressed by my women in the garments
of an Arab maiden of high birth, which I have ready for thee," said Lella M'Barka, brightening
with the eagerness of a little child at the prospect of dressing a beautiful new doll. "Fafann
shall bring everything here, and thou shalt be told how to robe thyself afterwards. I wish
to see that all is right, for to-morrow morning thou must arise while it is still dark, that
we may start with the first dawn."

Fafann and Hsina had forgotten their jealousies in the delight of the new play. They moved
about, laughing and chattering, and were not chidden for the noise they made. From shelves
behind the inlaid doors in the wall, they took down exquisite boxes of mother-o'-pearl and
red tortoiseshell. Also there were small bundles wrapped in gold brocade, and tied round with
bright green cord. These were all laid on a dim-coloured Kairouan rug, at the side of the divan,
and the two women squatted on the floor to open them, while their mistress leaned on her thin
elbow among cushions, and skins of golden jackal from the Sahara.

From one box came wide trousers of white silk, like Lella M'Barka's; from another, vests of
satin and velvet of pale shades embroidered with gold or silver. A fat parcel contained delicately
tinted stockings and high-heeled slippers of different sizes. A second bundle contained blouses
of thin silk and gauze, and in a pearl box were pretty little chechias of sequined velvet,
caps so small as to fit the head closely; and besides these, there were sashes and gandourahs,
and haïcks white and fleecy, woven from the softest wool.

When everything was well displayed, the Bedouin and the negress sprang up, lithe as leopards,
and to Victoria's surprise began to undress her.

"Please let me do it myself!" she protested, but they did not listen or understand, chattering
her into silence, as if they had been lively though elderly monkeys. Giggling over the hooks
and buttons which were comical to them, they turned and twisted her between their hands, fumbling
at neck and waist with black fingers, and brown fingers tattooed blue, until she, too, began
to laugh. She laughed herself into helplessness, and encouraged by her wild merriment, and
Lella M'Barka's smiles and exclamations punctuated with fits of coughing, they set to work
at pulling out hairpins, and the tortoise-shell combs that kept the Roumia's red gold waves
in place. At last down tumbled the thick curly locks which Stephen Knight had thought so beautiful
when they flowed round her shoulders in the Dance of the Shadow.

The invalid made her kneel, just as she was in her petticoat, in order to pass long, ringed
fingers through the soft masses, and lift them up for the pleasure of letting them fall. When
the golden veil, as Lella M'Barka called it, had been praised and admired over and over again,
the order was given to braid it in two long plaits, leaving the ends to curl as they would.
Then, the game of dressing the doll could begin, but first the embroidered petticoat of batiste
with blue ribbons at the top of its flounce, and the simple pretty little stays had to be examined
with keen interest. Nothing like these things had ever been seen by mistress or servants, except
in occasional peeps through shuttered carriage windows when passing French shops: for Lella
M'Barka Bent Djellab, daughter of Princes of Touggourt, was what young Arabs call "vieux turban."
She was old-fashioned in her ideas, would have no European furniture or decorations, and until
to-night had never consented to know a Roumia, much less receive one into her house. She had
felt that she was making a great concession in granting her cousin's request, but she had forgotten
her sense of condescension in entertaining an unveiled girl, a Christian, now that she saw
what the girl was like. She was too old and lonely to be jealous of Victoria's beauty; and
as Si Maïeddine, her favourite cousin, deigned to admire this young foreigner, Lella M'Barka
took an unselfish pride in each of the American girl's charms.

When she was dressed to all outward appearances precisely like the daughter of a high-born
Arab family, Fafann brought a mirror framed in mother-o'-pearl, and Victoria could not help
admiring herself a little. She wished half unconsciously that Stephen Knight could see her,
with hair looped in two great shining braids on either side her face, under the sequined chechia
of sapphire velvet; and then she was ashamed of her own vanity.

Having been dressed, she was obliged to prove, before the three women would be satisfied, that
she understood how each garment ought to be arranged; and later she had to try on a new gandourah,
with a white burnouse such as women wear, and the haïck she had worn in coming to the house.
Hsina would help her in the morning, she was told, but it would be better that she should know
how to do things properly for herself, since only Fafann would be with them on the journey,
and she might sometimes be busy with Lella M'Barka when Victoria was dressing.

The excitement of adorning the beautiful doll had tired the invalid. The dark lines under her
eyes were very blue, and the flesh of her face seemed to hang loose, making her look piteously
haggard. She offered but feeble objections when her guest proposed to say good night, and after
a few more compliments and blessings, Victoria was able to slip away, escorted by the negress.

The room where she was to sleep was on another side of the court from that of Lella M'Barka,
but Hsina took great pains to assure her that there was nothing to fear. No one could come
into this court; and she--Hsina--slept near by with Fafann. To clap the hands once would be
to bring one of them instantly. And Hsina would wake her before dawn.

Victoria's long, narrow sleeping room had the bed across one end, in Arab fashion. It was placed
in an alcove and built into the wall, with pillars in front, of gilded wood, and yellow brocaded
curtains of a curious, Oriental design. At the opposite end of the room stood a large cupboard,
like a buffet, beautifully inlaid with mother-o'-pearl, and along the length of the room ran
shelves neatly piled with bright-coloured bed-clothing, or ferrachiyas. Above these shelves
texts from the Koran were exquisitely illuminated in red, blue and gold, like a frieze; and
there were tinselled pictures of relatives of the Prophet, and of Mohammed's Angel-horse, Borak.
The floor was covered with soft, dark-coloured rugs; and on a square of white linen was a huge
copper basin full of water, with folded towels laid beside it.

The bed was not uncomfortable, but Victoria could not sleep. She did not even wish to sleep.
It was too wonderful to think that to-morrow she would be on her way to Saidee.

XX

Before morning light, Si Maïeddine was in his cousin's house. Hsina had not yet called Victoria,
but Lella M'Barka was up and dressed, ready to receive Maïeddine in the room where she had
entertained the Roumia girl last night. Being a near relation, Si Maïeddine was allowed to
see Lella M'Barka unveiled; and even in the pink and gold light of the hanging lamps, she was
ghastly under her paint. The young man was struck with her martyred look, and pitied her; but
stronger than his pity was the fear that she might fail him--if not to-day, before the journey's
end. She would have to undergo a strain terrible for an invalid, and he could spare her much
of this if he chose; but he would not choose, though he was fond of his cousin, and grateful
in a way. To spare her would mean the risk of failure for him.

Each called down salutations and peace upon the head of the other, and Lella M'Barka asked
Maïeddine if he would drink coffee. He thanked her, but had already taken coffee. And she?
All her strength would be needed. She must not neglect to sustain herself now that everything
depended upon her health.

"My health!" she echoed, with a sigh, and a gesture of something like despair. "O my cousin,
if thou knewest how I suffer, how I dread what lies before me, thou wouldst in mercy change
thy plans even now. Thou wouldst go the short way to the end of our journey. Think of the difference
to me! A week or eight days of travel at most, instead of three weeks, or more if I falter
by the way, and thou art forced to wait."

Maïeddine's face hardened under her imploring eyes, but he answered with gentleness, "Thou
knowest, my kind friend and cousin, that I would give my blood to save thee suffering, but
it is more than my blood that thou askest now. It is my heart, for my heart is in this journey
and what I hope from it, as I told thee yesterday. We discussed it all, thou and I, between
us. Thou hast loved, and I made thee understand something of what I feel for this girl, whose
beauty, as thou hast seen, is that of the houris in Paradise. Never have I found her like;
and it may be I care more because of the obstacles which stand high as a wall between me and
her. Because of the man who is her sister's husband, I must not fail in respect, or even seem
to fail. I cannot take her and ride away, as I might with a maiden humbly placed, trusting
to make her happy after she was mine. My winning must be done first, as is the way of the Roumis,
and she will be hard to win. Already she feels that one of my race has stolen and hidden her
sister; for this, in her heart, she fears and half distrusts all Arabs. A week would give me
no time to capture her love, and when the journey is over it will be too late. Then, at best,
I can see little of her, even if she be allowed to keep something of her European freedom.
It is from this journey together--the long, long journey--that I hope everything. No pains
shall be spared. No luxury shall she lack even on the hardest stretches of the way. She shall
know that she owes all to my thought and care. In three weeks I can pull down that high wall
between us. She will have learned to depend on me, to need me, to long for me when I am out
of her sight, as the gazelle longs for a fountain of sweet water."

"Poet and dreamer thou hast become, Maïeddine," said Lella M'Barka with a tired smile.

"I have become a lover. That means both and more. My heart is set on success with this girl:
and yesterday thou didst promise to help. In return, I offered thee a present that is like
the gift of new life to a woman, the amulet my father's dead brother rubbed on the sacred Black
Stone at Mecca, touched by the foot of the Prophet. I assured thee that at the end of our journey
I would persuade the marabout to make the amulet as potent for good to thee as the Black Stone
itself, against which thou canst never cool the fever in thy forehead. Then, when he has used
his power, and thou hast pressed the amulet on thy brows, thou mayst read the destiny of men
and women written between their eyes, as a sand-diviner reads fate in the sands. Thou wilt
become in thine own right a marabouta, and be sure of Heaven when thou diest. This blessing
the marabout will give, not for thy sake, but for mine, because I will do for him certain things
which he has long desired, and so far I have never consented to undertake. Thou wilt gain greatly
through keeping thy word to me. Believing in thy courage and good faith, I have made all arrangements
for the journey. Not once last night did I close my eyes in sleep. There was not a moment to
rest, for I had many telegrams to send, and letters to write, asking my friends along the different
stages of the way, after we have left the train, to lend me relays of mules or horses. I have
had to collect supplies, to think of and plan out details for which most men would have needed
a week's preparation, yet I have completed all in twelve hours. I believe nothing has been
forgotten, nothing neglected. And can it be that my prop will fail me at the last moment?"

"No, I will not fail thee, unless soul and body part," Lella M'Barka answered. "I but hoped
that thou mightest feel differently, that in pity--but I see I was wrong to ask. I will pray
that the amulet, and the hope of the divine benediction of the baraka may support me to the end."

"I, too, will pray, dear cousin. Be brave, and remember, the journey is to be taken, in easy
stages. All the comforts I am preparing are for thee, as well as for this white rose whose
beauty has stolen the heart out of my breast."

"It is true. Thou art kind, or I would not love thee even as I should have loved a son, had
one been given me," said the haggard woman, meekly. "Does she know that there will be three
weeks or more of travelling?"

"No. I told her vaguely that she could hardly hope to see her sister in less than a fortnight.
I feared that, at first hearing, the thought of such distances, separating her from what she
has known of life, might cause her to hesitate. But she will be willing to sacrifice herself
and travel less rapidly than she hoped, when she sees that thou art weak and ailing. She has
a heart with room in it for the welfare of others."

"Most women have. It is expected of us." Lella M'Barka sighed again, faintly. "But she is all
that thou describedst to me, of beauty and sweetness. When she has been converted to the True
Faith, as thy wife, nothing will be lacking to make her perfect."

Hsina appeared at the door. "Thy guest, O Lella M'Barka, is having her coffee, and is eating
bread with it," she announced. "In a few minutes she will be ready. Shall I fetch her down
while the gracious lord honours the house with his presence, or----"

