A few days before his sudden death, an old gentleman, a chance acquaintance, was talking with
him about the muddy coloring of the pictures. Old Melville's eyes wandered over the four walls
representing a life's work; at first he ardently argued in their favor, but finally gave in
that they, perhaps, were a little bit too dark. "Why do you not take a studio where you can
see real sunlight; there is one empty now with Southern exposure, right in this building."
Old Melville shook his head, murmuring some excuses of "can't afford it," of "being used so
long to this one," but his visitor insisted, "he would pay the rent and fix matters with the
landlord." The good soul did not understand much about painting, about tones and values, but
merely wanted to get the old man into a more cheerful room.

It was difficult for old Melville to take leave of his studio, in which he had seen a quarter
of a century roll by, which he had entered as a man in the best years of his life, and now
left as an old man; but when he had moved into the new room, the walls of which were an agreeable
gray, he exclaimed, "How nice and light!" After arranging his few earthly possessions, he brought
out a new canvas, opened a side window, sat down once more before his easel, and gazed intently
at the sunshine streaming in and playing on the newly painted and varnished floor.

For years he had wielded the brush every day, but on this day he somehow could not paint; he
could not find the right harmony. He at first attributed it to a cold which he had contracted,
but later on, irritated and somewhat frightened, he mumbled to himself, "I fear I can't paint
in this room." And thus he sat musing at his easel with the blank canvas before him, blank
as once his youth had been, full of possibilities of a successful career, when suddenly an
inspiration came upon him. He saw before him the orchard of his father's little Canadian farm,
with the old apple trees in bloom, bathed in the sweet and subtle sunlight of spring, a scene
that for years had lain hidden among the faint, almost forgotten memories of his childhood
days, but now by some trick of memory was conjured up with appalling distinctiveness. This
he wished to realize in paint, and should he perish in the effort!

Feverishly he seized his palette and brushes, for hours and hours he painted--the sunlight
had long vanished from his studio floor, a chill wind blew through the open window and played
with his gray locks--and when the brush at last glided from his hand he had accomplished his
lifelong aim--he had painted sunshine.

Slowly he sank back in his chair, the arms hanging limp at his sides, and his chin falling
on his chest, an attitude a painter might adopt gazing at a masterpiece he had just accomplished--in
this case old Melville's painting hours were over for evermore, his eyes could no longer see
the colors of this world. Like a soldier he had died at his post of duty, and serene happiness
over this final victory lay on his features. In every life some ideal happiness is hidden,
which may be found, and for which we should prospect all our days. Old Melville had attained
his little bit of sunshine rather late in life, but he had called it his own, at least for
however short a moment, while most of us others, whom life treats less scurvily, blinded by
foolish and selfish desire, cannot even succeed in grasping material happiness, which crosses
our roads quite often enough and stands at times right near us, without being recognized.

And the fate of old Melville's pictures? Who knows if they may not some day, when their colors
have mellowed, be discovered in some garret, and re-enter the art world in a more dignified
manner? True enough, they will not set the world on fire, yet they may be at least appreciated
as the sincere efforts of a man who loved his art above all else, and, despite deficiencies,
had a keen understanding for nature and considerable ability to express it. Whatever their
future may be, his work has not been in vain. It is the cruel law of human life that hundreds
of men must drudge their whole lives away in order that one may succeed, not a bit better than
they; in the same way in art, hundreds of talents must struggle and suffer in vain that one
may reach the cloud-wrapped summit of popularity and fame. And that road is sure to lead over
many corpses, and many of the nobler altruistic qualities of man have to be left far behind
in the valley of unknown names.

Life was brutal to you, old Melville! But this way or that way, what is the difference?

There was a time when in the name of God and of true faith in Him men were destroyed, tortured,
executed, beaten in scores and hundreds of thousands. We, from the height of our attainments,
now look down upon the men who did these things.

But we are wrong. Amongst us there are many such people, the difference lies only here--that
those men of old did these things then in the name of God, and of His true service, whilst
now those who commit the same evil amongst us do so in the name of "the people," "for the true
service of the people."--Leo Tolstoy.