At St. Petersburg, the birth day of any of the royal family is observed as a time of great
festivity, by all kinds of diversions. When the vessel in which John Read shipped arrived,
he was allowed to go on shore to see the sport on that occasion. In one of the sleighs was
a lady, who at the moment of passing him lost a bracelet from her arm, which fell on the snow.
John hastened forward to pick it up, at the same time calling after the lady, who was beyond
the sound of his voice. He then put the bracelet into his pocket, and when he had seen enough
of the sport, went back to the ship.

John told the captain all about it, showing him the prize which he had found.

"Well, Jack," said the captain, "you are fortunate enough--these are all diamonds of great
value--when we get to the next port I will sell it for you." "But," said John, "It's not mine,
it belongs to the lady, and I cannot sell it." The captain replied "O, you cannot find the
lady, and you picked it up. It is your own." But John persisted it was not his. "Nonsense,
my boy," said the captain, "it belongs to you." John then replied--"But if we have another
storm in the Baltic," (see story preceding.) "Ah me," said the Captain, "I forgot all about
that, Jack. I will go on shore with you to-morrow and try to find the owner." They did so;
and after much trouble, found it belonged to a nobleman's, lady, and as a reward for the boy's
honesty, she gave him eighty pounds English money. John's next difficulty was what to do with
it. The captain advised him to lay it out in hides, which would be valuable in England. He
did so, and on arriving at Hull, they brought one hundred and fifty pounds.

John had not forgotten his mother. The captain gave him leave of absence for a time, and taking
a portion of his money with him, he started for his native village. When he arrived there,
he made his way to her house with a beating heart. Each object told him it was home, and brought
bygone days to his mind. On coming to the house he saw it was closed. He thought she might
be dead; and as he slowly opened the gate and walked up the path and looked about, his heart
was ready to break. A neighbor seeing him, said, "Ah, John, is that you?" and quickly told
him that his mother still lived--but as she had no means of support, she had gone to the poor
house. John went to the place, found his mother, and soon made her comfortable in her own cottage.
The sailor boy afterwards became mate of the same vessel in which he first left the quay at
Yarmouth.

NO PAY--NO WORK.

"Little boy, will you help a poor old man up the hill with this load?" said an old man, who
was drawing a hand cart with a bag of corn for the mill.

"I can't," said the boy, "I am in a hurry to be at school."

As the old man sat on the stone, resting himself, he thought of his youthful days, and of his
friends now in the grave; the tears began to fall, when John Wilson came along, and said,--"Shall
I help you up the hill with your load, sir?" The old man brushed his eyes with his coat sleeve,
and replied, "I should be glad to have you." He arose and took the tongue of his cart, while
John pushed behind. When they ascended the top of the hill, the old man thanked the lad for
his kindness. In consequence of this John was ten minutes too late at school. It was unusual
for him to be late, as he was known to be punctual and prompt; but as he said nothing to the
teacher about the cause of his being late, he was marked for not being in season.

After school, Hanson, the first boy, said to John, "I suppose you stopped to help old Stevenson
up the hill with his corn."

"Yes," replied John, "the old man was tired and I thought I would give him a lift."

"Well, did you get your pay for it?" said Hanson, "for I don't work for nothing."

"Nor do I," said John; "I didn't help him, expecting pay."

"Well, why did you do it? You knew you would be late to school."

"Because I thought I ought to help the poor old man," said John.

"Well," replied Hanson, "if you will work for nothing, you may. No pay, no work, is my motto."

"To be kind and obliging, is mine," said John.

Here, children, is a good example. John did not perform this act of kindness for nothing. He
had the approbation of a good conscience--the pleasure of doing good to the old man--and the
respect and gratitude of his friends. Even the small act of benevolence is like giving a cup
of cold water to the needy, which will not pass unnoticed. Does any body work for nothing when
he does good? Think of this, and do likewise.

THE TREE THAT NEVER FADES.

"Mary," said George, "next summer I will not have a garden. Our pretty tree is dying, and I
won't love another tree as long as I live. I will have a bird next summer, and that will stay
all winter."

"George, don't you remember my beautiful canary bird? It died in the middle of the summer,
and we planted bright flowers in the ground where we buried it. My bird did not live as long
as the tree."

"Well, I don't see as we can love anything. Dear little brother died before the bird, and I
loved him better than any bird, or tree or flower. Oh! I wish we could have something to love
that wouldn't die."

The day passed. During the school hours, George and Mary had almost forgotten that their tree
was dying; but at evening, as they drew their chairs to the table where their mother was sitting,
and began to arrange the seeds they had been gathering, the remembrance of the tree came upon them.

"Mother," said Mary, "you may give these seeds to cousin John; I never want another garden."

"Yes," added George, pushing the papers in which he had carefully folded them towards his mother,
"you may give them all away. If I could find some seeds of a tree that would never fade, I
should like then to have a garden. I wonder, mother, if there ever was such a garden?"

"Yes, George, I have read of a garden where the trees never die."

"A real garden, mother?"

"Yes, my son. In the middle of the garden, I have been told, there runs a pure river of water,
clear as crystal, and on each side of the river is the tree of life,--a tree that never fades.
That garden is heaven. There you may love and love for ever. There will be no death--no fading
there. Let your treasure be in the tree of life, and you will have something to which your
young hearts can cling, without fear, and without disappointment. Love the Saviour here, and
he will prepare you to dwell in those green pastures, and beside those still waters."

       *       *       *       *       *

Every neglected opportunity draws after it an irreparable loss, which will go into eternity
with you.--Doddridge.

YOUNG USHER.

You gave read of that remarkable man, Mr. Usher, who was Archbishop of Armagh. I will tell
you something about his early childhood. He was born in Dublin, in the year 1580, and when
a little boy he was fond of reading. He lived with his two aunts who were born blind, and who
acquired much knowledge of the Scriptures by hearing others read the Scriptures and other good
books. At seven years of age he was sent to school in Dublin; at the end of five years he was
superior in study to any of his school fellows, and was thought fully qualified to enter the
college at Dublin.

While he was at college he learned to play at cards, and he was so much taken up with this
amusement that both his learning and piety were much endangered. He saw the evil tendency of
playing at cards, and at once relinquished the practice entirely. When he was nine years old,
he heard a sermon preached which made a deep impression on his mind. From that time he was
accustomed to habits of devotion. He loved to pray, and he felt that he could not sleep quietly
without first commending himself to the care of his Heavenly Father for protection. You see
him in the picture kneeling by his bed side, alone with God. When he was fourteen years old,
he began to think about partaking of the Lord's supper. He thought this act to be a very solemn
and important one, and required a thorough preparation. On the afternoon previous to the communion,
he would retire to some private place for self examination and prayer. When he was but sixteen
years of age, he obtained such a knowledge of chronology as to have commenced the annals of
the Old and New Testaments, which were published many years after, and are now a general standard
of reference.

When his father died, he being the eldest son, the paternal estate was left to him to manage.
But as he feared that it would occupy too much of his time and attention, he gave it entirely
to his brother and sisters, reserving only enough for his books and college expenses. At the
age of twenty he entered the ministry, and seven years after was chosen a professor in the
University of Dublin. In 1640, he visited England at the time of the commencement of the rebellion;
all his goods were seized by the popish party, except some furniture in his house, and his
library at Drogheda, which was afterwards sent to London. He bore his loss with submission,
but he never returned to Ireland. He had many trials to endure on account of the troublous
times in England, (it being the time of the civil wars.) In 1646 he received a kind invitation
from the Countess of Peterborough to reside in one of her houses, which proposal he accepted
and lived in one of them till his death, in 1665. By the direction of Cromwell he was buried
in Westminster Abby.

A GOOD ACT FOR ANOTHER.

A man was going from Norwich to New London with a loaded team; on attempting to ascend a hill
where an Indian lived he found his team could not draw the load. He went for the Indian to
assist him. After he had got up the hill he asked the Indian what was to pay. The Indian told
him to do as much for somebody else.

Some time afterward the Indian wanted a canoe. He went up Shetucket river, found a tree, and
made him one. When he had finished it he could not get it to the river; accordingly he went
to a man and offered to pay him if he would go and draw it to the river for him. The man set
about it immediately, and after getting it to the river, the Indian offered to pay him. "No,"
said the man; "don't you recollect, so long ago, helping a man with a team up the hill by the
side of your house?" "Yes." "Well, I am the man; take your canoe and go home."

A BOY REPROVED BY A BIRD.

The sparrows often build their nests under the eaves of houses and barns. A young lad saw one
of the sparrows conveying materials for her nest, which she was building under the eaves of
a cottage adjoining his father's house. He was told not to disturb it. But birds' eggs form
a temptation to many boys. At a favorable opportunity the lad climbed up to the roof of the
cottage and carried away the nest with the eggs in it. Among the materials of which the nest
was composed was a piece of paper with some printed verses on it. The boy pulled it out and
found it to be a page of one of Dr. Watts' hymns, which had been picked up in the yard by the
poor bird for strengthening her nest. The boy unfolded the paper and read:--

    "Why should I deprive my neighbor
      Of his goods against his will?
    Hands were made for honest labor.
      Not to plunder nor to steal."

The lad says, in his after years, "I never forgot the lesson presented to me by that leaf of
paper which had been fixed to the nest of the poor sparrow." Let young people remember that
when they do wrong they will get reproved, and it may be by the means of a bird.

THE ECHO.

Little Charles knew nothing about an echo. As he was playing by himself in the field, he cried
out, "Ho, hop!" and immediately a voice from the woods near by answered, "ho, hop!" Being surprised
at this, he called out, "who be you?" The voice answered, "who be you?" Charles thought this
very strange, and cried out "you're a stupid fellow," and "stupid fellow," was the reply from
the woods.

Charles began to be much displeased, and called several abusive names, and every name he called,
came back to him. "I never met with such insolence," said he, "but I'll revenge myself;" and
he ran up and down among the trees, trying to find the supposed offender, but he could see
no one. Vexed and disappointed, he hastened home and told his mother that a bad boy had hidden
in the woods and called him all sorts of names.

His mother smiled and shook her head. "Now you have been angry at yourself, Charles, for you
must know that you heard nothing but your own words repeated. As you have seen your own face
reflected in the water, so you have now heard your own voice echoed." Had Charles spoke kind
words he would have heard kind words in return. It is often true that the behavior we meet
with from others, is but an echo of our own. If we speak kind words we shall have kind words
in return.

LIZZY AND HER DOG.

I wish to relate to you a very affecting story about a good girl who died when she was thirteen
years old. She was an interesting young girl, and possessed great intellectual powers. She
was also very fond of the works of nature, especially of flowers, and would often say, "How
good God is to make these beautiful flowers for us to enjoy." Soon it was very evident to her
friends that disease was preying on her delicate constitution. She bore all her sickness with
calm submission, and when she died she appeared to all who knew her to be prepared for heaven.
While she was sick, her parents did every thing to make her comfortable and happy. They had
a dog which Lizzy set a great deal by, and with him she used to play in the house and in the
garden. When Lizzy was so sick that she could not play with him, he would come and lay himself
down at her bed side, and appeared to be very sad on her account. When she died and was buried,
the dog followed with the parents in the funeral, to the grave yard where Lizzy was laid away.
One day, about five months afterwards, I went with her father to see the grave of Lizzy. As
we went into the grave yard, we walked slowly along, reading the names of persons buried there,
while the dog followed us. We soon missed the dog, supposing he had wandered into some other
part of the cemetery. But when we came within a few yards of Lizzy's grave we saw him sitting
at its head, leaning against the stone which was erected in memory of the lovely daughter.
It was a very affecting scene--the attachment of the dog, as well as the power of his memory.
Dogs are faithful creatures, and we can never bear to see them abused. Be kind to them and
they will be kind to you.

JULIA'S SUNSET WALK.

It was a beautiful June day, just at the sun's setting, when Julia Easworth went to visit the
resting place of a dear grandmother. While she was in the grave-yard, meditating on the loss
of one of her best earthly friends, she saw a lady dressed in mourning busily engaged in doing
something near a rose bush that grew at the foot of a little mound, at a short distance from
where she stood. Julia walked along and came near where she was, and laid her hand gently upon
the woman and said, "Madam, is this your little mound?"

"Oh, no, my child; it is my dear Elise's grave."

"And is it long since you laid her here, ma'am," said Julia.

"Only a few weeks," was the reply; "there were buds on this rose bush when I brought it here."

"And was it her's," asked Julia, as she stooped down to inhale the rich fragrance of the beautiful
flower.

"Yes, my child, it was a dear treasure to her. My Elise was a good child, she was my Idol,
but my Heavenly Father has seen best to remove her from me. I only cared to live that I might
be useful to her in giving her such instructions as might be a blessing to her. I almost adored
her, but she is gone from me, and I am alone. I know she is happy, because she was good."

"And have you always lived here in our town," asked Julia.

"Oh, no! I am from Italy. When my child was but two years old, I left my native shores, and
with my only relative, my father, followed my young husband, who is an American, to his own
land. We settled in the State of Virginia, and a short time ago he died and left me with a
charge to take care of our dear Elise. She had her father's hair and complexion, and inherited
his delicate constitution. We were poor and I labored hard, but I cared not, if I could only
make my child comfortable and happy. She was not like me--her mind was full of thoughts of
beauty--she would often talk of things with which I could not sympathize--the world seemed
to her to be full of voices, and she would often say 'How beautiful heaven must be.' Her nature
was purer and gentler than mine, and I felt that she was a fit companion of the angels. But
she is now gone to be with them, and I hope soon to meet her."

Julia bid the lady good bye and went towards her home. As she walked slowly along, she thought
to herself, "Elise with the angels!" and she dwelt on the theme till her mother, seeing her
rather different in her conduct, asked her the cause, when she replied, "Oh, mother! I want
to dwell with the angels."

FLORA AND HER PORTRAIT.

"And was there never a portrait of your beautiful child," said Anne Jones to a lady whom she
met at the grave where her child had been lain a few weeks.

"Oh, yes! but I may never have it," replied the woman, as she stood weeping at the grave.

Anna did not understand the mother's tears, but in a few moments she became calm, and continued
to explain.

"Not many weeks before my child's illness, as we were walking together in the city, an artist
observed my daughter and followed us to our humble home. He praised her countenance to me,
and said her beauty was rare. In all his life he had never seen face to compare with it, nor
an eye so full of soul--and begged to have me consent to his drawing her portrait. After many
urgent entreaties, my dear child consented. For several mornings I went with Flora to the artist's
room, though I could ill afford the time, for our daily bread was to be earned. When he was
finishing the picture, Flora went alone. One day she returned, and flinging into my lap her
little green purse, she said:--'The picture does not need me any more, and I am very glad,
for my head aches badly. They say the portrait is very like me, mother.'

"I resolved to go and see it the day following, but when the time came that I first looked
upon it, my dear child began to fade in my arms, until she died. And here she is buried. Since
then I go to the artist's room to see her portrait, and there, full of life and beauty, she
stands before me, and I have permission to see it every day.

"But I am about to leave this country for our native land. My aged father has long wished to
return to his own country, and we shall soon sail with our friends for Italy. I must leave
the dear child here. But if I can purchase the picture of the artist, I shall be happy. We
are poor; but by the sale of some little articles, we have raised money enough to buy the picture,
at the price which the artist demands for a similar picture.

"When I went to buy it, you know not how I felt, when the artist, notwithstanding all my pleadings,
denied my request. His apology was, that he had taken it for some purpose of his own--some
great exhibition of paintings--what, I could not fully comprehend. He would not sell it. Day
after day I have been to him, but in vain. And now the time of our departure will soon come,
and duty demands that I must go with my father, and I must leave my dear Flora, and portrait too."

She then laid her face upon the grave and wept. Anna's eyes were filled with tears, and for
some moments she did not speak. At last she thought--"I know the artist." And then touching
the mother, who was almost insensible, she said, "Madam, it may be that I can do something
for you--describe to me the picture. I think I must have seen it at this same artist's room."

The mother then gave the description, and after Anna had gathered from the mother all needful
information, her name, and residence, and time of sailing, then giving her own address, and
speaking to her words of consolation and hope, she arose and left the stranger at the grave
of her child. The next story will tell you how the picture was obtained.

THE PORTRAIT OF FLORA PURCHASED.

Anna started for her home, and when she had arrived, she slowly ascended to her room, flung
herself upon her couch, and buried her face in its cushions.

"Edgar," (for that was the artist's name, and Anna knew him,) "Edgar is cold hearted." She
did not meet the family at tea that evening, but when her mother came to inquire if she was
ill, she related all the sad story of the childless mother, and asked what could be done. The
next morning, Anna and her father went to see the artist. He was not in attendance, but one
to whom they were well known brought forward the picture, at Anna's request, and which she
had before seen. While they were looking at it, the artist came in.

"Pardon me, sir," said Anna's father, "for examining your beautiful picture during your absence,
but my daughter has a very earnest desire to possess it. Is it for sale?"

Edgar replied, "I have painted this picture for the coming artist's exhibition, and, therefore,
I have made no design as to its disposal, but it would be an honor to me to have you and Miss
Anna its purchasers. I would wish, however, previously to its being given up, that it might
be exhibited, according to my intention, at the rooms, which open on Monday next."

Mr. H. hesitated--the vessel, which was to carry away the sorrowing mother, was to sail in
a little more than two weeks--they must have the picture at that time, if ever; and he said
to the artist, "I am aware that this is a beautiful painting, and I will pay you your price,
but I must be allowed to take it at the expiration of ten days, if at all."

Edgar reflected a few moments, and being well aware that, in the mansion of Mr. Hastings, his
elegant picture would be seen by persons of the most accomplished manners, and of excellent
taste, concluded to sell the picture. The bargain was made and Anna and her father departed,
leaving the artist somewhat elated at the thought of having Mr. H. the owner of his picture.

That night Edgar dreamed that Flora, who had been buried a few weeks, and of whose image his
picture was the exact resemblance, stood before him, pleading him to have pity on her lonely
mother--he dreamed her hand clasped his, and he awoke trembling.

He raised himself upon his elbow, and pressed to his lips some flowers which were left on his
table, and then rejoiced that the ocean would soon lie between him and the wearisome old woman
who had so long annoyed him about the picture.

The Monday morning came, and with it the portrait of Flora, which had been admired at the exhibition
rooms the previous week. A simple frame had been prepared for it, and for a few moments Anna
gazed on the picture, and with a love for the buried stranger, looked for the last time into
the deep dark eyes which beamed on the canvas.

