"Papa knows what a break he made with Mrs. Vertrees. I made him understand that," said Edith,
demurely, "and he's promised to try and meet Mr. Vertrees and be nice to him. It's just this
way: if we don't know THEM, it's practically no use in our having build the New House; and
if we DO know them and they're decent to us, we're right with the right people. They can do
the whole thing for us. Bobby Lamhorn told Sibyl he was going to bring his mother to call on
her and on mamma, but it was weeks ago, and I notice he hasn't done it; and if Mrs. Vertrees
decides not to know us, I'm darn sure Mrs Lamhorn'll never come. That's ONE thing Sibyl didn't
manage! She SAID Bobby offered to bring his mother--"

"You say he is a friend of Roscoe's?" Bibbs asked.

"Oh, he's a friend of the whole family," she returned, with a petulance which she made an effort
to disguise. "Roscoe and he got acquainted somewhere, and they take him to the theater about
every other night. Sibyl has him to lunch, too, and keeps--" She broke off with an angry little
jerk of the head. "We can see the New House from the second corner ahead. Roscoe has built
straight across the street from us, you know. Honestly, Sibyl makes me think of a snake, sometimes--the
way she pulls the wool over people's eyes! She honeys up to papa and gets anything in the world
she wants out of him, and then makes fun of him behind his back--yes, and to his face, but
HE can't see it! She got him to give her a twelve-thousand-dollar porch for their house after
it was--"

"Good heavens!" said Bibbs, staring ahead as they reached the corner and the car swung to the
right, following a bend in the street. "Is that the New House?"

"Yes. What do you think of it?"

"Well," he drawled, "I'm pretty sure the sanitarium's about half a size bigger; I can't be
certain till I measure."

And a moment later, as they entered the driveway, he added, seriously: "But it's beautiful!"

CHAPTER IV

It was gray stone, with long roofs of thick green slate. An architect who loved the milder
"Gothic motives" had built what he liked: it was to be seen at once that he had been left unhampered,
and he had wrought a picture out of his head into a noble and exultant reality. At the same
time a landscape-designer had played so good a second, with ready-made accessories of screen,
approach and vista, that already whatever look of newness remained upon the place was to its
advantage, as showing at least one thing yet clean under the grimy sky. For, though the smoke
was thinner in this direction, and at this long distance from the heart of the town, it was
not absent, and under tutelage of wind and weather could be malignant even here, where cows
had wandered in the meadows and corn had been growing not ten years gone.

Altogether, the New House was a success. It was one of those architects' successes which leave
the owners veiled in privacy; it revealed nothing of the people who lived in it save that they
were rich. There are houses that cannot be detached from their own people without protesting:
every inch of mortar seems to mourn the separation, and such a house--no matter what be done
to it--is ever murmurous with regret, whispering the old name sadly to itself unceasingly.
But the New House was of a kind to change hands without emotion. In our swelling cities, great
places of its type are useful as financial gauges of the business tides; rich families, one
after another, take title and occupy such houses as fortunes rise and fall--they mark the high
tide. It was impossible to imagine a child's toy wagon left upon a walk or driveway of the
New House, and yet it was--as Bibbs rightly called it--"beautiful."

What the architect thought of the "Golfo di Napoli," which hung in its vast gold revel of rococo
frame against the gray wood of the hall, is to be conjectured--perhaps he had not seen it.

"Edith, did you say only eleven feet?" Bibbs panted, staring at it, as the white-jacketed twin
of a Pullman porter helped him to get out of his overcoat.

"Eleven without the frame," she explained. "It's splendid, don't you think? It lightens things
up so. The hall was kind of gloomy before."

"No gloom now!" said Bibbs.

"This statue in the corner is pretty, too," she remarked. "Mamma and I bought that." And Bibbs
turned at her direction to behold, amid a grove of tubbed palms, a "life-size," black-bearded
Moor, of a plastic composition painted with unappeasable gloss and brilliancy. Upon his chocolate
head he wore a gold turban; in his hand he held a gold-tipped spear; and for the rest, he was
red and yellow and black and silver.

"Hallelujah!" was the sole comment of the returned wanderer, and Edith, saying she would "find
mamma," left him blinking at the Moor. Presently, after she had disappeared, he turned to the
colored man who stood waiting, Bibbs's traveling-bag in his hand. "What do YOU think of it?"
Bibbs asked, solemnly.

"Gran'!" replied the servitor. "She mighty hard to dus'. Dus' git in all 'em wrinkles. Yessuh,
she mighty hard to dus'."

"I expect she must be," said Bibbs, his glance returning reflectively to the black bull beard
for a moment. "Is there a place anywhere I could lie down?"

"Yessuh. We got one nem spare rooms all fix up fo' you, suh. Right up staihs, suh. Nice room."

He led the way, and Bibbs followed slowly, stopping at intervals to rest, and noting a heavy
increase in the staff of service since the exodus from the "old" house. Maids and scrubwomen
were at work under the patently nominal direction of another Pullman porter, who was profoundly
enjoying his own affectation of being harassed with care.

"Ev'ything got look spick an' span fo' the big doin's to-night," Bibbs's guide explained, chuckling.
"Yessuh, we got big doin's to-night! Big doin's!"

The room to which he conducted his lagging charge was furnished in every particular like a
room in a new hotel; and Bibbs found it pleasant--though, indeed, any room with a good bed
would have seemed pleasant to him after his journey. He stretched himself flat immediately,
and having replied "Not now" to the attendant's offer to unpack the bag, closed his eyes wearily.

White-jacket, racially sympathetic, lowered the window-shades and made an exit on tiptoe, encountering
the other white-jacket--the harassed overseer--in the hall without. Said the emerging one:
"He mighty shaky, Mist' Jackson. Drop right down an' shet his eyes. Eyelids all black. Rich
folks gotta go same as anybody else. Anybody ast me if I change 'ith 'at ole boy--No, suh!
Le'm keep 'is money; I keep my black skin an' keep out the ground!"

Mr. Jackson expressed the same preference. "Yessuh, he look tuh me like somebody awready laid
out," he concluded. And upon the stairway landing, near by, two old women, on all-fours at
their work, were likewise pessimistic.

"Hech!" said one, lamenting in a whisper. "It give me a turn to see him go by--white as wax
an' bony as a dead fish! Mrs. Cronin, tell me: d'it make ye kind o' sick to look at um?"

"Sick? No more than the face of a blessed angel already in heaven!"

"Well," said the other, "I'd a b'y o' me own come home t' die once--" She fell silent at a
rustling of skirts in the corridor above them.

It was Mrs. Sheridan hurrying to greet her son.

She was one of those fat, pink people who fade and contract with age like drying fruit; and
her outside was a true portrait of her. Her husband and her daughter had long ago absorbed
her. What intelligence she had was given almost wholly to comprehending and serving those two,
and except in the presence of one of them she was nearly always absent-minded. Edith lived
all day with her mother, as daughters do; and Sheridan so held his wife to her unity with him
that she had long ago become unconscious of her existence as a thing separate from his. She
invariably perceived his moods, and nursed him through them when she did not share them; and
she gave him a profound sympathy with the inmost spirit and purpose of his being, even though
she did not comprehend it and partook of it only as a spectator. They had known but one actual
altercation in their lives, and that was thirty years past, in the early days of Sheridan's
struggle, when, in order to enhance the favorable impression he believed himself to be making
upon some capitalists, he had thought it necessary to accompany them to a performance of "The
Black Crook." But she had not once referred to this during the last ten years.

Mrs. Sheridan's manner was hurried and inconsequent; her clothes rustled more than other women's
clothes; she seemed to wear too many at a time and to be vaguely troubled by them, and she
was patting a skirt down over some unruly internal dissension at the moment she opened Bibbs's
door.

At sight of the recumbent figure she began to close the door softly, withdrawing, but the young
man had heard the turning of the knob and the rustling of skirts, and he opened his eyes.

"Don't go, mother," he said. "I'm not asleep." He swung his long legs over the side of the
bed to rise, but she set a hand on his shoulder, restraining him; and he lay flat again.

"No," she said, bending over to kiss his cheek, "I just come for a minute, but I want to see
how you seem. Edith said--"

"Poor Edith!" he murmured. "She couldn't look at me. She--"

"Nonsense!" Mrs. Sheridan, having let in the light at a window, came back to the bedside. "You
look a great deal better than what you did before you went to the sanitarium, anyway. It's
done you good; a body can see that right away. You need fatting up, of course, and you haven't
got much color--"

"No," he said, "I haven't much color."

"But you will have when you get your strength back."

"Oh yes!" he responded, cheerfully. "THEN I will."

"You look a great deal better than what I expected."

"Edith must have a great vocabulary!" he chuckled.

"She's too sensitive," said Mrs. Sheridan, "and it makes her exaggerate a little. What about
your diet?"

"That's all right. They told me to eat anything."

"Anything at all?"

"Well--anything I could."

"That's good," she said, nodding. "They mean for you just to build up your strength. That's
what they told me the last time I went to see you at the sanitarium. You look better than what
you did then, and that's only a little time ago. How long was it?"

"Eight months, I think."

"No, it couldn't be. I know it ain't THAT long, but maybe it was longer'n I thought. And this
last month or so I haven't had scarcely even time to write more than just a line to ask how
you were gettin' along, but I told Edith to write, the weeks I couldn't, and I asked Jim to,
too, and they both said they would, so I suppose you've kept up pretty well on the home news."

"Oh yes."

"What I think you need," said the mother, gravely, "is to liven up a little and take an interest
in things. That's what papa was sayin' this morning, after we got your telegram; and that's
what'll stimilate your appetite, too. He was talkin' over his plans for you--"

"Plans?" Bibbs, turning on his side, shielded his eyes from the light with his hand, so that
he might see her better. "What--" He paused. "What plans is he making for me, mother?"

She turned away, going back to the window to draw down the shade. "Well, you better talk it
over with HIM," she said, with perceptible nervousness. "He better tell you himself. I don't
feel as if I had any call, exactly, to go into it; and you better get to sleep now, anyway."
She came and stood by the bedside once more. "But you must remember, Bibbs, whatever papa does
is for the best. He loves his chuldern and wants to do what's right by ALL of 'em--and you'll
always find he's right in the end."

He made a little gesture of assent, which seemed to content her; and she rustled to the door,
turning to speak again after she had opened it. "You get a good nap, now, so as to be all rested
up for to-night."

"You--you mean--he--" Bibbs stammered, having begun to speak too quickly. Checking himself,
he drew a long breath, then asked, quietly, "Does father expect me to come down-stairs this
evening?"

"Well, I think he does," she answered. "You see, it's the 'house-warming,' as he calls it,
and he said he thinks all our chuldern ought to be around us, as well as the old friends and
other folks. It's just what he thinks you need--to take an interest and liven up. You don't
feel too bad to come down, do you?"

"Mother?"

"Well?"

"Take a good look at me," he said.

"Oh, see here!" she cried, with brusque cheerfulness. "You're not so bad off as you think you
are, Bibbs. You're on the mend; and it won't do you any harm to please your--"

"It isn't that," he interrupted. "Honestly, I'm only afraid it might spoil somebody's appetite.
Edith--"

"I told you the child was too sensitive," she interrupted, in turn. "You're a plenty good-lookin'
enough young man for anybody! You look like you been through a long spell and begun to get
well, and that's all there is to it."

"All right. I'll come to the party. If the rest of you can stand it, I can!"

"It 'll do you good," she returned, rustling into the hall. "Now take a nap, and I'll send
one o' the help to wake you in time for you to get dressed up before dinner. You go to sleep
right away, now, Bibbs!"

Bibbs was unable to obey, though he kept his eyes closed. Something she had said kept running
in his mind, repeating itself over and over interminably. "His plans for you--his plans for
you--his plans for you--his plans for you--" And then, taking the place of "his plans for you,"
after what seemed a long, long while, her flurried voice came back to him insistently, seeming
to whisper in his ear: "He loves his chuldern--he loves his chuldern--he loves his chuldern"--"you'll
find he's always right--you'll find he's always right--" Until at last, as he drifted into
the state of half-dreams and distorted realities, the voice seemed to murmur from beyond a
great black wing that came out of the wall and stretched over his bed--it was a black wing
within the room, and at the same time it was a black cloud crossing the sky, bridging the whole
earth from pole to pole. It was a cloud of black smoke, and out of the heart of it came a flurried
voice whispering over and over, "His plans for you--his plans for you--his plans for you--"
And then there was nothing.

He woke refreshed, stretched himself gingerly--as one might have a care against too quick or
too long a pull upon a frayed elastic--and, getting to his feet, went blinking to the window
and touched the shade so that it flew up, letting in a pale sunset.

He looked out into the lemon-colored light and smiled wanly at the next house, as Edith's grandiose
phrase came to mind, "the old Vertrees country mansion." It stood in a broad lawn which was
separated from the Sheridans' by a young hedge; and it was a big, square, plain old box of
a house with a giant salt-cellar atop for a cupola. Paint had been spared for a long time,
and no one could have put a name to the color of it, but in spite of that the place had no
look of being out at heel, and the sward was as neatly trimmed as the Sheridans' own.

The separating hedge ran almost beneath Bibbs's window--for this wing of the New House extended
here almost to the edge of the lot--and, directly opposite the window, the Vertreeses' lawn
had been graded so as to make a little knoll upon which stood a small rustic "summer-house."
It was almost on a level with Bibbs's window and not thirty feet away; and it was easy for
him to imagine the present dynasty of Vertreeses in grievous outcry when they had found this
retreat ruined by the juxtaposition of the parvenu intruder. Probably the "summer-house" was
pleasant and pretty in summer. It had the look of a place wherein little girls had played for
a generation or so with dolls and "housekeeping," or where a lovely old lady might come to
read something dull on warm afternoons; but now in the thin light it was desolate, the color
of dust, and hung with haggard vines which had lost their leaves.

Bibbs looked at it with grave sympathy, probably feeling some kinship with anything so dismantled;
then he turned to a cheval-glass beside the window and paid himself the dubious tribute of
a thorough inspection. He looked the mirror up and down, slowly, repeatedly, but came in the
end to a long and earnest scrutiny of the face. Throughout this cryptic seance his manner was
profoundly impersonal; he had the air of an entomologist intent upon classifying a specimen,
but finally he appeared to become pessimistic. He shook his head solemnly; then gazed again
and shook his head again, and continued to shake it slowly, in complete disapproval.

"You certainly are one horrible sight!" he said, aloud.

And at that he was instantly aware of an observer. Turning quickly, he was vouchsafed the picture
of a charming lady, framed in a rustic aperture of the "summer-house" and staring full into
his window--straight into his eyes, too, for the infinitesimal fraction of a second before
the flashingly censorious withdrawal of her own. Composedly, she pulled several dead twigs
from a vine, the manner of her action conveying a message or proclamation to the effect that
she was in the summer-house for the sole purpose of such-like pruning and tending, and that
no gentleman could suppose her presence there to be due to any other purpose whatsoever, or
that, being there on that account, she had allowed her attention to wander for one instant
in the direction of things of which she was in reality unconscious.

Having pulled enough twigs to emphasize her unconsciousness--and at the same time her disapproval--of
everything in the nature of a Sheridan or belonging to a Sheridan, she descended the knoll
with maintained composure, and sauntered toward a side-door of the country mansion of the Vertreeses.
An elderly lady, bonneted and cloaked, opened the door and came to meet her.

"Are you ready, Mary? I've been looking for you. What were you doing?"

"Nothing. Just looking into one of Sheridans' windows," said Mary Vertrees. "I got caught at it."

"Mary!" cried her mother. "Just as we were going to call! Good heavens!"

"We'll go, just the same," the daughter returned. "I suppose those women would be glad to have
us if we'd burned their house to the ground."

"But WHO saw you?" insisted Mrs. Vertrees.

"One of the sons, I suppose he was. I believe he's insane, or something. At least I hear they
keep him in a sanitarium somewhere, and never talk about him. He was staring at himself in
a mirror and talking to himself. Then he looked out and caught me."

"What did he--"

"Nothing, of course."

"How did he look?"

"Like a ghost in a blue suit," said Miss Vertrees, moving toward the street and waving a white-gloved
hand in farewell to her father, who was observing them from the window of his library. "Rather
tragic and altogether impossible. Do come on, mother, and let's get it over!"

And Mrs. Vertrees, with many misgivings, set forth with her daughter for their gracious assault
upon the New House next door.

CHAPTER V

Mr. Vertrees, having watched their departure with the air of a man who had something at hazard
upon the expedition, turned from the window and began to pace the library thoughtfully, pending
their return. He was about sixty; a small man, withered and dry and fine, a trim little sketch
of an elderly dandy. His lambrequin mustache--relic of a forgotten Anglomania--had been profoundly
black, but now, like his smooth hair, it was approaching an equally sheer whiteness; and though
his clothes were old, they had shapeliness and a flavor of mode. And for greater spruceness
there were some jaunty touches; gray spats, a narrow black ribbon across the gray waistcoat
to the eye-glasses in a pocket, a fleck of color from a button in the lapel of the black coat,
labeling him the descendant of patriot warriors.

The room was not like him, being cheerful and hideous, whereas Mr. Vertrees was anxious and
decorative. Under a mantel of imitation black marble a merry little coal-fire beamed forth
upon high and narrow "Eastlake" bookcases with long glass doors, and upon comfortable, incongruous
furniture, and upon meaningless "woodwork" everywhere, and upon half a dozen Landseer engravings
which Mr. and Mrs. Vertrees sometimes mentioned to each other, after thirty years of possession,
as "very fine things." They had been the first people in town to possess Landseer engravings,
and there, in art, they had rested, but they still had a feeling that in all such matters they
were in the van; and when Mr. Vertrees discovered Landseers upon the walls of other people's
houses he thawed, as a chieftain to a trusted follower; and if he found an edition of Bulwer
Lytton accompanying the Landseers as a final corroboration of culture, he would say, inevitably,
"Those people know good pictures and they know good books."

The growth of the city, which might easily have made him a millionaire, had ruined him because
he had failed to understand it. When towns begin to grow they have whims, and the whims of
a town always ruin somebody. Mr. Vertrees had been most strikingly the somebody in this case.
At about the time he bought the Landseers, he owned, through inheritance, an office-building
and a large house not far from it, where he spent the winter; and he had a country place--a
farm of four hundred acres--where he went for the summers to the comfortable, ugly old house
that was his home now, perforce, all the year round. If he had known how to sit still and let
things happen he would have prospered miraculously; but, strangely enough, the dainty little
man was one of the first to fall down and worship Bigness, the which proceeded straightway
to enact the role of Juggernaut for his better education. He was a true prophet of the prodigious
growth, but he had a fatal gift for selling good and buying bad. He should have stayed at home
and looked at his Landseers and read his Bulwer, but he took his cow to market, and the trained
milkers milked her dry and then ate her. He sold the office-building and the house in town
to buy a great tract of lots in a new suburb; then he sold the farm, except the house and the
ground about it, to pay the taxes on the suburban lots and to "keep them up." The lots refused
to stay up; but he had to do something to keep himself and his family up, so in despair he
sold the lots (which went up beautifully the next year) for "traction stock" that was paying
dividends; and thereafter he ceased to buy and sell. Thus he disappeared altogether from the
commercial surface at about the time James Sheridan came out securely on top; and Sheridan,
until Mrs. Vertrees called upon him with her "anti-smoke" committee, had never heard the name.

Mr. Vertrees, pinched, retired to his Landseers, and Mrs. Vertrees "managed somehow" on the
dividends, though "managing" became more and more difficult as the years went by and money
bought less and less. But there came a day when three servitors of Bigness in Philadelphia
took greedy counsel with four fellow-worshipers from New York, and not long after that there
were no more dividends for Mr. Vertrees. In fact, there was nothing for Mr. Vertrees, because
the "traction stock" henceforth was no stock at all, and he had mortgaged his house long ago
to help "manage somehow" according to his conception of his "position in life"--one of his
own old-fashioned phrases. Six months before the completion of the New House next door, Mr.
Vertrees had sold his horses and the worn Victoria and "station-wagon," to pay the arrears
of his two servants and re-establish credit at the grocer's and butcher's--and a pair of elderly
carriage-horses with such accoutrements are not very ample barter, in these days, for six months'
food and fuel and service. Mr. Vertrees had discovered, too, that there was no salary for him
in all the buzzing city--he could do nothing.

It may be said that he was at the end of his string. Such times do come in all their bitterness,
finally, to the man with no trade or craft, if his feeble clutch on that slippery ghost, Property,
shall fail.

The windows grew black while he paced the room, and smoky twilight closed round about the house,
yet not more darkly than what closed round about the heart of the anxious little man patrolling
the fan-shaped zone of firelight. But as the mantel clock struck wheezily six there was the
rattle of an outer door, and a rich and beautiful peal of laughter went ringing through the
house. Thus cheerfully did Mary Vertrees herald her return with her mother from their expedition
among the barbarians.

She came rushing into the library and threw herself into a deep chair by the hearth, laughing
so uncontrollably that tears were in her eyes. Mrs. Vertrees followed decorously, no mirth
about her; on the contrary, she looked vaguely disturbed, as if she had eaten something not
quite certain to agree with her, and regretted it.

"Papa! Oh, oh!" And Miss Vertrees was fain to apply a handkerchief upon her eyes. "I'm SO glad
you made us go! I wouldn't have missed it--"

Mrs. Vertrees shook her head. "I suppose I'm very dull," she said, gently. "I didn't see anything
amusing. They're most ordinary, and the house is altogether in bad taste, but we anticipated
that, and--"

"Papa!" Mary cried, breaking in. "They asked us to DINNER!"

"What!"

"And I'm GOING!" she shouted, and was seized with fresh paroxysms. "Think of it! Never in their
house before; never met any of them but the daughter--and just BARELY met her--"

"What about you?" interrupted Mr. Vertrees, turning sharply upon his wife.

She made a little face as if positive now that what she had eaten would not agree with her.
"I couldn't!" she said. "I--"

"Yes, that's just--just the way she--she looked when they asked her!" cried Mary, choking.
"And then she--she realized it, and tried to turn it into a cough, and she didn't know how,
and it sounded like--like a squeal!"

"I suppose," said Mrs. Vertrees, much injured, "that Mary will have an uproarious time at my
funeral. She makes fun of--"

Mary jumped up instantly and kissed her; then she went to the mantel and, leaning an elbow
upon it, gazed thoughtfully at the buckle of her shoe, twinkling in the firelight.

"THEY didn't notice anything," she said. "So far as they were concerned, mamma, it was one
of the finest coughs you ever coughed."

"Who were 'they'?" asked her father. "Whom did you see?"

"Only the mother and daughter," Mary answered. "Mrs. Sheridan is dumpy and rustly; and Miss
Sheridan is pretty and pushing--dresses by the fashion magazines and talks about New York people
that have their pictures in 'em. She tutors the mother, but not very successfully--partly because
her own foundation is too flimsy and partly because she began too late. They've got an enormous
Moor of painted plaster or something in the hall, and the girl evidently thought it was to
her credit that she selected it!"

