"It only needed a little water," he said, and I had hard work to suppress my admiration. The
very morning before, feeling that I ought to take a hand in all this practical work that was
going on about the place, I had filled a large watering-can that I found lying about and wetted
some things which someone had stuck into the garden. I have a kind of idea that they were carrots,
but they may have been maiden-hair ferns. Somehow it had never occurred to me for a moment
to go and water the electric bells.

Almost immediately afterwards this man discovered that all the knives in the kitchen were blunt
and went and fetched some kind of private grindstone and sharpened them, and then told me that
the apple-trees ought to be grease-banded, which I thought was a thing one only did to engines.
And, when he had brought a hammer and some nails and put together a large bookcase which had
collapsed as soon as The Outline of History was put on to it (I should like to know whether
Canon BARNES can explain that), I was obliged to ask him to stop, in case the tramping men
should see him and strike immediately for fear of the dilution of labour.

But what impressed me most was the part he took next day in the Railway Carriage Conference,
which curiously enough was on the subject of strikes. There were several people in the carriage,
and they were talking about what they had done during the railway strike last year, and what
they would do if such a thing happened again. I said I should like to be a station-master if
possible, because they had top-hats and grew such beautiful flowers. Only four or five trains
seem to stop at our station during the day, and if there was a strike I suppose the number
would be reduced to one or two. And I thought it would be rather nice to spend the day wearing
a top-hat and watering the nasturtiums in the little rock-gardens behind the platform. Watering,
I said, was quite easy when once one got into the swing of it.

But the man who could do everything seemed to know everything too, and he told me that station-masters
were much too noble to strike. There were two kinds of station-masters, he said, both wearing
top-hats, but one kind with full morning-dress underneath it and the other with uniform. But
neither kind struck.

Slightly nettled at his superior knowledge, I asked him, "What did you do during the Great Strike?"

"Oh, I had rather fun," he said; "I controlled the signals at London Bridge."

If all the truth were known I expect that he is quite ready for Mr. SMILLIE'S strike; that
he has a handy little pick in his bedroom and knows of rather a jolly little coal-mine close by.

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FLOWERS' NAMES.

FOOL'S PARSLEY.

  In the village of Picking's Pool
  Lived Theobald, the village fool;
  He had been simple from his birth
  But kindly as the simple earth,
  And in his heart he sang a song
  Of "Ave, Mary" all day long.

  On Good Friday the people came
  To honour the rood of Christ His shame;
  They scattered flowers and leaves and moss
  About the foot of the humble cross
  And, when they knelt and prayed and wailed,
  Theobald saw the Mother, veiled
  And bowed in a mother's agony.
  "She suffers more than the Christ," said he.

  Theobald searched the fields and lanes
  To find a solace for MARY'S pains;
  All the flowers were plucked and gone
  Save a little dull Parsley, sere and wan;
  And Theobald wreathed it in simple guise;
  "It mourns like her," said the Fool made wise.

  When Holy Saturday morning broke
  Back to the shrine went the village folk;
  And lo! on the weeping Mother's brow
  A chaplet of flowers was gleaming now;
  And Theobald smiled secretly
  To think he had soothed her agony.
  And ever since Theobald crowned his Queen
  Fool's Parsley has flowered amongst its green.

       *       *       *       *       *

HEADGEAR FOR HEROES.

    [A contemporary, having heard of the hat specially designed for M.
    CLEMENCEAU, has decided that the bowler, the topper, the Homburg,
    the straw, the cloth cap and all other styles at present more
    or less in vogue leave much to be desired, and has therefore
    inaugurated a search for the ideal male headdress.]

THE SMILLIE.--A Phrygian model, executed in red Russia leather. Special features are the asbestos
lining, the steam vents and the water-jacket, which combine to minimise the natural heat of
the head. Embellished with an heraldic cock's-comb gules, it is a striking conception.

THE PREMIER.--A semi-Tyrolean type in resilient chamois, which can be readily converted to
any desired shape, with or without extra stiffening. Its adaptability and the patent sound-proof
ear-flaps make it particularly suitable for travellers. Detachable edelweiss and leek trimming.

THE ERIC.--An adaptation of the cap of maintenance in a special elastic material, warranted
not to burst under pressure of abnormal expansion of the head of the wearer. Practically fool-proof.

THE WINNIE.--A fore-and-aft derived from a French model of the First Empire period, the severity
of which is mitigated by the addition of little bells. A novelty is the mouthpiece in the crown,
which enables the hat to be used as a megaphone at need. An elastic loop holds a fountain-pen
in position. The whole to be worn on a head several sizes too big for it.

THE CONAN.--A straw bonnet of bee-hive shape. Medium weight. In a diversity of shades. The
special puggaree of goblin blue material is designed to protect the wearer from moonstroke
without obscuring the vision.

THE WARNER.--An easy-fitting crown carried out in harlequin flannel surmounts a full brim of
restful willow-green. Garnished with intertwined laurel and St. John's-Wort, and decorated
with the tail feather of a Surrey fowl, it makes a comfortable and distinguished headdress
for a middle-aged gentleman.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A SHIP IN A BOTTLE.

  In a sailormen's restaurant Rotherhithe way,
  Where the din of the docksides is loud all the day,
  And the breezes come bringing off basin and pond
  And all the piled acres of lumber beyond
  From the Oregon ranges the tang of the pine
  And the breath of the Baltic as bracing as wine,
  In a fly-spotted window I there did behold,
  Among the stale odours of hot food and cold,
  A ship in a bottle some sailor had made
  In watches below, swinging South with the Trade,
  When the fellows were patching old dungaree suits,
  Or mending up oilskins and leaky seaboots,
  Or whittling a model or painting a chest,
  Or yarning and smoking and watching the rest.

  In fancy I saw him all weathered and browned,
  Deep crows'-feet and wrinkles his eyelids around;
  A pipe in the teeth that seemed little the worse
  For Liverpool pantiles and stringy salt-horse;
  The hairy forearm with its gaudy tattoo
  Of a bold-looking female in scarlet and blue;
  The fingers all roughened and toughened and scarred,
  With hauling and hoisting so calloused and hard,
  So crooked and stiff you would wonder that still
  They could handle with cunning and fashion with skill
  The tiny full-rigger predestined to ride
  To its cable of thread on its green-painted tide
  In its wine-bottle world, while the old world went on
  And the sailor who made it was long ago gone.

