The above is a brief sketch of the campaigns of the war. It is not cheerful reading for an
American, nor yet of interest to a military student; and its lessons have been taught so often
by similar occurrences in other lands under like circumstances, and, moreover, teach such self-evident
truths, that they scarcely need to be brought to the notice of an historian. But the crowning
event of the war was the Battle of New Orleans; remarkable in its military aspect, and a source
of pride to every American. It is well worth a more careful study, and to it I have devoted
the last chapter of this work.

New York City, 1883.

PRINCIPAL AUTHORITIES REFERRED TO

(See also in alphabetical place in index.)

American State Papers.

Brenton, E. P. Naval History of Great Britain, 1783 to 1836. 2 vols., octavo. London, 1837.

Broke, Adm., Memoir of, by Rev. J. G. Brighton. Octavo, London, 1866.

"Captains' Letters" in Archives at Washington.

Codrington, Adm. Sir E. Memoirs, edited by his daughter. 2 vols., octavo. London, 1873.

Coggeshall, George. History of American Privateers. New York, 1876.

Cooper, J. F. Naval History of the United States. New York, 1856.

Dundonald, Earl. Autobiography of a Seaman. London, 1860.

Douglass, Lord Howard. Naval Gunnery. Octavo. London, 1860.

Emmons, Lieut. G. E. Statistical History of United States Navy, 1853.

Farragut, Adm. D. G., Life of, by his son, Loyall Farragut. Octavo. New York, 1878.

Graviere, Adm., J. de la. Guerres Maritimes. 2 vols., octavo. Paris, 1881.

James, William. Naval History of Great Britain. 6 vols., octavo. London, 1837.

James, William. Naval Occurrences with the Americans. Octavo, London, 1817.

Lossing, Benson J. Field-book of the War of 1812. Octavo. New York, 1869.

Low, C. R. History of the Indian Navy, 1613 to 1863. 2 vols., octavo. London, 1877.

London Naval Chronicle.

Marshall. Royal Naval Biography. 12 vols., octavo. London, 1825.

"Masters-Commandant Letters" in the Archives at Washington.

Morris, Com. Charles. Autobiography. Annapolis, 1880.

Naval Archives at Washington.

Niles. Weekly Register.

Pielat. B. La Vie et les Actions Memorables du St. Michel de Ruyter. Amsterdam, 1677.

Riviere, Lieut. H. La Marine Francaise sous le Regime de Louis XV. Paris, 1859.

Tatnall, Commod., Life, by C. C. Jones, Jr. Savannah, 1878.

Toussard, L. de. American Artillerists' Companion. Phila., 1811.

Troude, O. Batailles Navales de la France. Paris, 1868.

Ward, Com. J. H. Manual of Naval Tactics. 1859.

Yonge, Charles Duke. History of the British Navy. 3 vols., octavo. London, 1866.

AUTHORITIES REFERRED TO IN CHAPTER X

Alison, Sir A. History of Europe. Ninth edition. 20 vols. London, 1852.

Butler, Adjutant-General Robert. Official Report for the Morning of Jan. 8, 1815.

Codrington, Admiral Sir Edward. Memoir of, by Lady Bourchier. London, 1873.

Cole, John William. Memoirs of British Generals Distinguished during the Peninsular War. London,
1856.

Court of Inquiry on Conduct of General Morgan. Official Report.

Gleig, Ensign H. R. Narrative of the Campaigns of the British Army at Washington, Baltimore,
and New Orleans. Philadelphia, 1821.

Jackson, Andrew. As a Public Man. A sketch by W G. Sumner. Boston, 1882.

Jackson, General Andrew. Official Letters.

James, William. Military Occurrences of the Late War. 2 vols. London, 1818.

Keane, Major-General John. Letter, December 26, 1814.

Lambert, General. Letters, January 10 and 28, 1815.

Latour, Major A. Lacarriex. Historical Memoir of the War in West Florida and Louisiana. Translated
from the French by H. P. Nugent. Philadelphia, 1816.

Lossing, Benson J. Field-Book of the War of 1812. New York, 1859.

Patterson, Com. Daniel G. Letters, Dec. 20, 1814, and Jan. 13, 1815.

Monroe, James. Sketch of his Life, by Daniel C. Gilman. 16mo. Boston, 1883.

Napier, Maj.-Gen. Sir W. F. P. History of the War in the Peninsula. 5 vols. New York, 1882.

Scott, Lieut.-Gen. W. Memoirs, by himself, 2 vols. New York, 1864.

Thornton, Col. W. Letter, Jan. 8, 1815.

The view professed by Great Britain in 1812 respecting the rights of belligerents and neutrals
was diametrically opposite to that held by the United States. "Between England and the United
States of America," writes a British author, "a spirit of animosity, caused chiefly by the
impressment of British seamen, or of seamen asserted to be such, from on board of American
merchant vessels, had unhappily subsisted for a long time" prior to the war. "It is, we believe,"
he continues, "an acknowledged maxim of public law, as well that no nation but the one he belongs
to can release a subject from his natural allegiance, as that, provided the jurisdiction of
another independent state be not infringed, every nation has a right to enforce the services
of her subjects wherever they may be found. Nor has any neutral nation such a jurisdiction
over her merchant vessels upon the high seas as to exclude a belligerent nation from the right
of searching them for contraband of war or for the property or persons of her enemies. And
if, in the exercise of that right, the belligerent should discover on board of the neutral
vessel a subject who has withdrawn himself from his lawful allegiance, the neutral can have
no fair ground for refusing to deliver him up; more especially if that subject is proved to
be a deserter from the sea or land service of the former." [Footnote: "The Naval History of
Great Britain," by William James, vol. iv, p. 324. (New edition by Captain Chamier, R. N.,
London, 1837.)]

Great Britain's doctrine was "once a subject always a subject." On the other hand, the United
States maintained that any foreigner, after five years' residence within her territory, and
after having complied with certain forms, became one of her citizens as completely as if he
was native born. Great Britain contended that her war ships possessed the right of searching
all neutral vessels for the property and persons of her foes. The United States, resisting
this claim, asserted that "free bottoms made free goods," and that consequently her ships when
on the high seas should not be molested on any pretext whatever. Finally, Great Britain's system
of impressment, [Footnote: The best idea of which can be gained by reading Marryatt's novels.]
by which men could be forcibly seized and made to serve in her navy, no matter at what cost
to themselves, was repugnant to every American idea.

Such wide differences in the views of the two nations produced endless difficulties. To escape
the press-gang, or for other reasons, many British seamen took service under the American flag;
and if they were demanded back, it is not likely that they or their American shipmates had
much hesitation in swearing either that they were not British at all, or else that they had
been naturalized as Americans. Equally probable is it that the American blockade-runners were
guilty of a great deal of fraud and more or less thinly veiled perjury. But the wrongs done
by the Americans were insignificant compared with those they received. Any innocent merchant
vessel was liable to seizure at any moment; and when overhauled by a British cruiser short
of men was sure to be stripped of most of her crew. The British officers were themselves the
judges as to whether a seaman should be pronounced a native of America or of Britain, and there
was no appeal from their judgment. If a captain lacked his full complement there was little
doubt as to the view he would take of any man's nationality. The wrongs inflicted on our seafaring
countrymen by their impressment into foreign ships formed the main cause of the war.

There were still other grievances which are thus presented by the British Admiral Cochrane.
[Footnote: "Autobiography of a Seaman," by Thomas, tenth Earl of Dundonald, Admiral of the
Red; Rear-Admiral of the Fleet, London, 1860, vol. i, p. 24.] "Our treatment of its (America's)
citizens was scarcely in accordance with the national privileges to which the young Republic
had become entitled. There were no doubt many individuals among the American people who, caring
little for the Federal Government, considered it more profitable to break than to keep the
laws of nations by aiding and supporting our enemy (France), and it was against such that the
efforts of the squadron had chiefly been directed; but the way the object was carried out was
scarcely less an infraction of those national laws which we were professedly enforcing. The
practice of taking English (and American) seamen out of American ships without regard to the
safety of navigating them when thus deprived of their hands has been already mentioned. To
this may be added the detention of vessels against which nothing contrary to international
neutrality could be established, whereby their cargoes became damaged; the compelling them,
on suspicion only, to proceed to ports other than those to which they were destined; and generally
treating them as though they were engaged in contraband trade. * * * American ships were not
permitted to quit English ports without giving security for the discharge of their cargoes
in some other British or neutral port." On the same subject James [Footnote: L. c., iv, 325.]
writes: "When, by the maritime supremacy of England, France could no longer trade for herself,
America proffered her services, as a neutral, to trade for her; and American merchants and
their agents, in the gains that flowed in, soon found a compensation for all the perjury and
fraud necessary to cheat the former out of her belligerent rights. The high commercial importance
of the United States thus obtained, coupled with a similarity of language and, to a superficial
observer, a resemblance in person between the natives of America and Great Britain, has caused
the former to be the chief, if not the only sufferers by the exercise of the right of search.
Chiefly indebted for their growth and prosperity to emigration from Europe, the United States
hold out every allurement to foreigners, particularly to British seamen, whom, by a process
peculiarly their own, they can naturalize as quickly as a dollar can exchange masters and a
blank form, ready signed and sworn to, can be filled up. [Footnote: This is an exaggeration.]
It is the knowledge of this fact that makes British naval officers when searching for deserters
from their service, so harsh in their scrutiny, and so sceptical of American oaths and asseverations."

The last sentence of the foregoing from James is an euphemistic way of saying that whenever
a British commander short of men came across an American vessel he impressed all of her crew
that he wanted, whether they were citizens of the United States or not. It must be remembered,
however, that the only reason why Great Britain did us more injury than any other power was
because she was better able to do so. None of her acts were more offensive than Napoleon's
Milan decree, by which it was declared that any neutral vessel which permitted itself to be
searched by a British cruiser should be considered as British, and as the lawful prize of any
French vessel. French frigates and privateers were very apt to snap up any American vessel
they came across and were only withheld at all by the memory of the sharp dressing they had
received in the West Indies during the quasi-war of 1799-1800. What we undoubtedly ought to
have done was to have adopted the measure actually proposed in Congress, and declared war on
both France and England. As it was, we chose as a foe the one that had done, and could still
do, us the greatest injury.

