The difficulties of composition under such arbitrary limitations are evident, and it is not
to be wondered at that even famous poets have utterly failed when they have essayed to write
in this form. The sonnet has met with severest criticism, some writers failing to see any beauty
in it. Though Lord Byron wrote a few himself he defined the sonnet as "The most puling, petrifying,
stupidly Platonic composition."

But this is hardly fair to the many exquisitely beautiful lyrics that in this form grace the
English language. Those "little pictures painted well," those "monuments of a moment" are among
our most graceful poems, and the reader who has not learned to delight in a beautiful sonnet
has missed the most refined pleasure English literature has to give.

The following exquisite sonnet, Victor and Vanquished, by Longfellow, is formed on the Italian
model:

    As one who long hath fled with panting breath
      Before his foe, bleeding and near to fall,
      I turn and set my back against the wall,
    And look thee in the face, triumphant Death.
    I call for aid, and no one answereth;
      I am alone with thee, who conquerest all;
      Yet me thy threatening form doth not appall,
    For thou art but a phantom and a wraith;
      Wounded and weak, sword broken at the hilt,
    With armor shattered, and without a shield,
      I stand unmoved; do with me what thou wilt;
    I can resist no more, but will not yield.
      This is no tournament where cowards tilt;
    The vanquished here is victor of the field.

How many verses in this sonnet? What is the meter? What is the rhyme scheme? Through how many
lines is the rhyme scheme the same as that followed in the Italian sonnet?

Is there a unity of thought in this sonnet? Does the poet consistently allude to some one thing?
Was Longfellow old or young when he wrote this? What does Longfellow represent himself to be?
Why does he "set his back against the wall"? In these days of Mauser rifles would it do any
good to set one's back against the wall for protection against an approaching enemy? Was it
ever an advantage? Who is the foe that follows him? How can Death be "but a phantom and a wraith"
and at the same time follow the poet triumphantly? What do his weapons and his armor indicate
as to what he represents himself? What is the "broken sword"? Who fight in tournaments? What
is there appropriate in the word "tilt"? How can the one who is vanquished be victor still?
Is the figure of medieval knighthood well sustained?

The earliest European dramas of which we have any record were the plays performed in ancient
Greece five hundred years before Christ. There were very few characters introduced, sometimes
only one or two, and a chorus was the most important part of the representation. This chorus
served to fill the gaps in the action, to state what had preceded and at times even to comment
upon the actors, to exhort or to praise or condemn their behavior. The Greek dramatists carefully
followed the so-called rule of three unities: unity of time, whereby the action must be compressed
into one day; unity of place, by which only one place must be represented; and unity of action,
whereby the movement of the piece must be continuous, all the incidents be connected so as
to form one main line of thought. The rule of three unities was followed very closely by the
French dramatists up to comparatively recent times; but in England, beginning with the Elizabethan
era, no restraint was placed upon dramatic technique except unity of action, which still remains
essential.

During the Middle Ages the drama was represented by miracle and mystery plays dealing with
sacred history. They differed in subject only. The miracle plays represented the lives of saints
and their miraculous deeds; the mysteries, the mysterious doctrines of Christianity and various
biblical events. During an age when preaching was unusual, the clergy reached the souls of
their people by means of these rude plays which were at first given in churches; but later,
when the town guilds and trade organizations began to present them, the stage was a traveling
cart, roughly fitted up with rude scenery. Still later, before theaters were built, the wandering
players acted in inn yards or courtyards. Female parts were always taken by boys, and it was
not until after Shakespeare's time that women appeared on the stage.

In the reign of Henry VI the mysteries were in part superseded by the morality plays, although
the former did not wholly go out of style until the time of Elizabeth. The passion play given
every ten years at Oberammergau, Bavaria, is a survival of the old mystery play. The moralities
personified the virtues and vices common to man, and attempted to teach moral lessons by allegorical
representations. When popular interest in these dramas began to lag, current topics were introduced
into the dialogue, and characters from real life appeared on the stage for the first time.
Early in the sixteenth century John Heywood invented a farcical composition called The Interlude
to relieve the tiresome monotony of existing plays. But it was in 1540 that the first comedy
appeared, and it is not too much to say that this play marks the beginning of modern English
drama. Nicholas Udall, head master of Eton College, being accustomed to write Latin plays for
his boys, concluded to try his hand at an English drama. The result was Ralph Royster Doyster,
the first comedy. In 1562 Queen Elizabeth was entertained by the presentation of the first
English tragedy, a play entitled Gorboduc, by Thomas Sackville.

During the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries amateur dramatic productions called masques
were presented. Sometimes even nobles and members of the royal family took part. These plays
were accompanied by music, dancing, and spectacular effects. The literary character of the
masque developed into the compositions of Ben Jonson, and culminated in Milton's Comus. During
the reign of Elizabeth the productions of Kyd, Peele, Greene, Marlowe, and Beaumont and Fletcher
raised the drama to such a lofty plane that only the genius of a Shakespeare could surmount it.

There are two distinct classes of modern dramas--tragedies and comedies. In the former, events
crowd irresistibly on to some terrible conclusion, usually resulting in the death of the principal
characters. An atmosphere of gloom surrounds it, and the flashes of light serve but to intensify
the general darkness. Even when the soul of the reader recognizes the justice of the end it
rebels against the horrors of the situation. The deeper and darker passions predominate; love
is swallowed up in hate and happiness drowned in grief. The comedy is in a lighter and happier
vein; its situations may be trying but they end happily; the sun shines and the air is clear;
if storms appear they are the showers of a summer day, not awful tempests. The comedy descends
through various forms to the travesty and farce whose purpose is solely to excite laughter
by ludicrous scenes and absurd incidents. The melodrama abounds in thrilling situations and
extravagant efforts to excite emotions, but its final outcome is a happy one, and the villain
is punished and virtue is comfortably rewarded.

Dramas may be written in prose or in poetic form. The tendency is toward prose in comedy and
poetry in tragedy, though in the same play both prose and poetry are sometimes used. The most
common form for the poetic composition is the unrhymed iambic pentameter or blank verse (heroic
measure). Rhymes are in use but usually their purpose is definite and specific and they may
occur occasionally in plays which are otherwise in blank verse. Lyrics are often introduced,
and in them both rhyme and meter are varied at the pleasure of the author.

Journeys Through Bookland contains numerous illustrations of the facts of this chapter and
plentiful examples of every form of literature except the sonnet, of which a type has just
been given. The outline which follows will summarize this chapter and show a few of the examples
that may be formed.

LITERATURE

  I. PROSE.
    1. Forms of Prose Composition.
      A. Narration.
        The Pine Tree Shillings: IV, 192.
        A Christmas Carol: VI, 244.

      B. Description.
        Brute Neighbors: VII, 260.
        The Alhambra: VIII, 153.
        Children's Books of the Past: V, 101.

      C. Exposition.
        Imitation of Christ: VI, 134.
        The Cubes of Truth: VII, 406.
        Reading History: V, 394.

      D. Argument.
        Poor Richard's Almanac: VI, 407.

    2. Kinds of Prose.
      A. Fiction.
        Aladdin: III, 288.
        Tom Brown at Rugby: V, 469.
        The Adventure of the Windmills: VII, 438.

      B. Essays.
        Childhood: VI, 124.
        Dream Children: VIII, 335.
        The Vision of Mirza: IX, 285.

      C. Orations.
        The Gettysburg Address: IX, 321.
        Abraham Lincoln: IX, 324.

  II. POETRY.
    1. Structure of Poetry.
      A. Rhyme.
        The Country Squire: VI, 474.
        To My Infant Son: VI, 478.

      B. Meter.
        The Daffodils: VII, 1.
        The Old Oaken Bucket: VII, 11.
        Bannockburn: VII, 15.
        Boat Song: VII, 17.

    2. Kinds of Poetry.
      A. Epics.
        a. Heroic Epics.
          Death of Hector: IV, 364.
          Wooden Horse: IV, 383.
        b. Lesser Epics.
          Saint Nicholas: II, 202.
          Pied Piper of Hamelin: III, 384.
          Incident of the French Camp: IV, 174.
          Sohrab and Rustum: VI, 173.

      B. Lyrics.
        a. Songs.
          (1) Sacred.
              Nearer Home: IV, 126.
              Lead, Kindly Light: V, 110.
          (2) Secular.
              Annie Laurie: VI, 119.
              Auld Lang Syne: VI, 228.
              Those Evening Bells: VII, 340.
          (3) Patriotic.
              Battle Hymn of the Republic: V, 399.
              America: VIII, 60.
        b. Odes.
          To the Fringed Gentian: VII, 4.
          Ode to a Skylark: VII, 275.
          To H. W. L.: IV, 84.
        c. Elegies.
          Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard: VI, 360.
        d. Sonnet.
        e. Drama.
          The Tempest: VIII, 364.

CHAPTER XIV

JOURNEYS THROUGH BOOKLAND IN ITS RELATION TO THE SCHOOL

Reading and Language

These books were prepared expressly for home readings, but as has been said elsewhere, they
were prepared with a definite purpose to make them a living adjunct to school work and a strong
helper in bringing the home and the school together. To accomplish this result it was necessary
that all the studies offered in Journeys should be after the most approved methods and that
there should be no selections that could not with propriety be used in any school in the land.
This principle of selection made it necessary to exclude some selections that might have been
pleasing but at the same time were not universal in their acceptance. Again, it was necessary
to include literature that was in a sense technical, that would apply to every class that young
readers have in school. This does not mean that there are a great many things that are purely
geographical or purely historical or that deal directly with the study of language and literature.
It means that the reader of Journeys will find selections that he can use in nearly every class
in school and that those selections are in the highest degree literary. In no way does a child
learn more thoroughly that geography and history are worth study in themselves than by meeting
them clothed in the beauty of fine writing. In no way will he be led more quickly into a love
for nature in all her manifestations and into a keen desire to study nature than by the hand
of literature. Language takes on a new interest when it becomes evident that it is a real and
necessary help to writing as the great writers do.

Accordingly when the selections were chosen for Journeys, a tabulation of school subjects was
made and under each head were placed the things that would be most helpful in school work.
It was not decided finally to keep that arrangement in the books, for a different and a better
system of grading and classification was selected. Nevertheless the selections are there, and
the object of this and the few following chapters is to show what those selections are, how
they may be used in school and how their use at home helps in the school work of every reader.

In the grades below the high school the following subjects are considered most important, viz.:
reading, language, arithmetic, geography, history and nature study. At the first thought one
would say that a set of books such as Journeys can be of no use in the arithmetic class, and
of course their usefulness in that direction would not justify their existence. However, there
are selections in Journeys that have a decided arithmetical flavor, such as, for instance,
Three Sundays in a Week (Volume VI, page 453) and The Gold Bug (Volume IX, page 232). Even
among the nursery rhymes is one that is purely arithmetical (Volume I, page 41). We may, however,
disregard the arithmetic in Journeys, but we must not lose sight of the fact that the method
of reading discussed under the title Close Reading is exactly the method of study that every
person must pursue if he is to make any success in mathematics. In no other branch is there
a call for such close reading, and only he who can get all the meaning out of the statement
of a problem can be certain of his solution. One of the reasons that so many children have
trouble with the problems in their arithmetic classes is that they do not read intelligently.
Many a good teacher of mathematics will tell you that a large part of her success is due to
the fact that she has spent much of the time in the class in teaching her pupils to read understandingly.
Many another could make a vast improvement in her methods of teaching if she would spend a
part of the time of each recitation in teaching her pupils to read problems till they thoroughly
understand them before beginning to work out the formulas. It follows then that every child
who masters the art of close reading will be helped in a great measure in all his work in mathematics.
The value of Journeys in this connection is that it makes that method of study clear and leads
a child to its mastery almost without the recognition of what he is doing. It will teach him
to think before he acts and to acquire the habit of looking for the full meaning of everything
he reads.

In this and the two following chapters will be given studies of the most important subjects
studied in the grades, showing the correlation of the Journeys material. These subjects will
be treated in the following order: Reading, Language, Nature Study, Geography and History.

A. Reading

As for the other studies with which Journeys is correlated, we shall take them up one by one
and at greater length. First in importance is reading. This is always first in importance in
school, for every other study depends upon it. In fact the prime motive of Journeys is to teach
reading, and it will teach reading in the school and in the home. The child who has read what
these books have to offer in the way that these books teach will have a power that cannot be
taken from him, and his position in class and elsewhere will be raised immediately. Besides
the fund of information he will have acquired he will have made for himself a habit that will
always benefit him. Every study in the books from the first page to the last is a help in reading,
and all the lessons of this volume are directed to reading. But there are three or more long
chapters in this volume which take up the different methods of reading and apply them to selections
on all conceivable subjects dealt with in Journeys. To these chapters on reading the teacher
and the parent who wants to be informed are directed. The treatment is simple and not above
the effort of anyone, and the method will appeal to all high school students of literature,
for it is the method of the best teachers of that subject.

B. LANGUAGE

There are two distinct phases of the teaching of language: pupils must be taught to speak and
to write with ease, fluency and correctness. There are very few children who do not like to
talk. It is as natural to them as to breathe. But as soon as they begin to speak we begin to
correct their speech. Much of our criticism is given publicly, at least before other children,
some of whom are known to speak more fluently and correctly than those whose errors are being
criticized. In consequence, the children begin to doubt themselves, to hesitate, and gradually
to lose their desire to talk. In fact, so timid and reluctant do they become that by the time
they have been in school a few years many teachers find their greatest difficulty in getting
pupils to recite well or to talk naturally. Perhaps before and after school and at recess they
will converse freely and delightfully, but as soon as their classes are called they become
reticent and ill at ease. Not all of this lack of spirit is due to the teacher, but some of
it is. In any event it is an unfortunate condition, and the teacher is anxious to remove it.

At home a similar condition prevails. If the parents are themselves accurate in speech and
alive to the importance of making their children good talkers and users of correct English
they will be ready with criticism, and unless they are careful will do their share to repress
the natural frankness of child nature. Parents who have been teachers are quite as liable to
err as others are to remain in ignorance in attempting to understand the psychology of the
child mind. Freedom of conversation on topics of interest where correct models of speech are
always before the child will accomplish more in making cultivated speech than will twice as
much direct instruction. If only parents will read the things that the children are reading
and affect an interest in those things they can be certain of giving the best training, while
they themselves will grow in happiness and nearness to their offspring. In the fields of literature
they can stray together with the consciousness that with all the beauty there is nothing to
corrupt.

In a lesser degree, perhaps, the same facts are true in written language, in composition. But
in lessons of this type the instructor will not find conditions so favorable: Talking is natural,
writing is artificial; to speak is instinctive, to write is an art of difficult attainment.
In the first place, a child must be taught to form strange characters with his hand. After
he acquires facility in that, he must think, put this thoughts into words in his mind, and
then laboriously transfer his words, letter by letter, to the paper before him. Many a child
who talks well cannot write a respectable letter. His thoughts outrun his hand, and by the
time the first labored sentence is written his ideas have fled and he must begin again. Is
it any wonder that his sentences are disconnected, his thought meager?

Just think what it means to a child to write you a letter, or even a brief paragraph! Suppose
he wants to tell you about a dog he has at home. He begins by thinking: "My dog, Ben, is a
pretty little woolly fellow with bright eyes and long silky ears," and then his thoughts run
off vaguely into the general idea that he is going to tell you about some very cute tricks
Ben can perform. The child is all enthusiasm and he begins writing and thinking something like
this: "My (that word must begin with a capital letter) dog ('Ben' must begin with a capital,
too) Ben is a (is that 'pritty' or 'pretty'? It's pronounced 'pritty' anyhow) pritty (that
don't look right. Scratch it out!) pretty (well, that don't, I mean doesn't look right either,
but I'll leave it) (For goodness sake, how do you spell it? 'Wooly'? 'wolly'? 'woolly'? I guess
I had it right at first) wooly fellow (where shall I put the commas? I'll leave 'em out. Teacher
can put them in if she wants them.) with bright eyes and long slicky (no, no, that isn't right!
How funny! Scratch it out.) silky ears. (I nearly forgot the period. Now what was I going to
say next?)." When he is through, his first sentence is like this: "My dog Ben is a pretty little
wooly fellow with bright eyes and long silky ears." He looks at his work with doubt and disgust
as he scratches his head for the next idea. He has wholly forgotten what he intended to tell
about! Later, his work, wholly unsatisfactory to himself comes to you for criticism and you
take your blue pencil or your pen with red ink and put in the marks if any are needed, indicate
the misspelled words and sigh as you say, "Will Charlie ever learn to write a decent composition?"
Certainly he will, when his writing becomes mechanical, when his hand makes the letters, puts
in the marks, and his lower brain spells the words for him, without disturbing the higher cells
which are occupied with his ideas.

These are the diverse problems that confront anyone who tries to teach language to a child.
We cannot solve them all, but most certainly we can lend some assistance.

1. Oral Lessons

Success in oral language lessons rests primarily upon interest. If you can secure interest,
the children will talk freely; if you retain interest, you can criticize freely and with good
effect.

Criticisms should not be too severe and should always be impersonal. It is not John and Mary
who are being corrected, but the mistakes that John and Mary make. You have heard both parents
and teachers say, "John, why will you persist in saying, 'I done it'? Don't you know that is
wrong? You must correct yourself." Such criticism is wholly bad. If John says "I done it,"
it is because he has heard the expression and become habituated to its use. He cannot be taught
differently by berating him. When he says, "I done it," repeat after him in a kindly inquiring
voice, "I done it?" or say in a kindly way, "I did it." In either case John will give you the
correct form willingly, and when he has done so times enough he will forget the wrong form
and cease to use it.

Everyone must remember that children have heard slang and incorrect speech almost from infancy;
that the playground, the street and the home have been steadily teaching, and that the minds
of even primary children may be filled with not only loose forms of speech, but even with profane
and indecent expressions. One of the natural correctives for such things is the reading and
telling of attractive stories, full of dramatic power, calculated to stimulate right feeling,
couched in clear and forcible English. Elsewhere in this volume under the title Telling Stories
are suggestions and good models.

From the standpoint of the language lesson, children must reproduce the story, must "tell it
back" to make it valuable to them. The instructor's part in this reproduction may be summed
up as follows:

1. Be an interested audience for the child.

2. Secure clearness. Do it by a gentle question or a remark now and then: "I am not sure that
I understand you." "Do you think I would know what you mean if I had never read the story?"
"If you were telling the story to your playmate would she understand that?"

3. Encourage the child to use his own words, when he follows too closely the phraseology that
was given him, yet remember that one of the objects of the exercise is to give the children
the use of a wider vocabulary and to make them appreciate and use beautiful and forcible expressions.

4. Be reasonably content with freedom of expression at first, and do not expect too rapid improvement.
You are moving against fixed habits.

5. Vary the character of the exercise. Sometimes permit one child to tell the whole story;
at other times, call upon other children, or continue the story yourself.

6. If the story is a difficult one, do not ask for its reproduction until it is thoroughly
understood. Make its meaning clear by skilful questioning, which with the answers makes an
extremely valuable conversation lesson.

7. Encourage the use of beautiful expressions, of fine figures of speech. Do it by using such
expressions yourself and by pointing them out in the story or poem you are using.

8. Beware of spoiling a beautiful poem or an elegant prose selection by poor reproduction.
After the story has been related and the meaning made clear have the original read several
times exactly as it is written and encourage the children to commit it to memory.

There are in Journeys Through Bookland many selections suitable for these oral lessons. For
the little folks there are some of the Nursery Rhymes, of Volume I, like the following:

  Little Boy Blue, Page 33.
  Mary, Mary, Quite Contrary, Page 30.
  Ladybird, Ladybird, Page 12.
  Little Bo-Peep, Page 9.
  Jack and Jill, Page 27.
  Poor Robin, Page 16.
  There Was a Jolly Miller, Page 47.
  Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star, Page 44.

In the same class may be included those beautiful poems by Stevenson and Field, poems that
every child loves and will be delighted to talk about. For instance, the following from the
same volume:

  The Swing, Page 67.
  Singing, Page 83.
  The Rock-a-by Lady, Page 94.
  My Bed is a Boat, Page 126.
  Foreign Lands, Page 130.
  Little Blue Pigeon, Page 133.
  The Land of Counterpane, Page 144.
  Norse Lullaby, Page 246.
  Where Go the Boats? Page 256.
  Wynken, Blynken and Nod, Page 262.
  Keepsake Mill, Page 349.
  The Duel, Page 384.

The last list, however, includes many of those poems which must not be spoiled by childish
re-telling. Use them for conversation subjects and then for reading or recitation.

The fables will be found to provide excellent material, and there need be no fear of ruining
their effect as literature:

  The Lion and the Mouse, Volume I, page 75.
  The Wolf and the Crane, I, 96.
  The Lark and Her Young Ones, I, 131.
  The Cat and the Chestnuts, I, 142.
  The Sparrow and the Eagle, Volume II, 8.

Certain of the fairy stories are excellent; so are anecdotes concerning men of whom the children
should know; historical tales, and stories about plants, birds and other animals. Among the
great number of selections that might be included under this head, some of the best are the
following:

  1. Fairy Tales and Folk Stories:
    Silverlocks and the Three Bears, Volume I, 101.
    The Hardy Tin Soldier, I, 148.
    Cinderella, I, 224.
    The Ugly Duckling, I, 414.
    Why the Sea is Salt, II, 484.
    The Pied Piper of Hamelin, III, 384.

  2. Biographical Stories:
    Robert Louis Stevenson, Volume I, 128.
    Eugene Field, I, 242.
    George Rogers Clark, VI, 422.
    Père Marquette, VIII, 121.

  3. Myths:
    The Wonderful Gifts, Volume I, 368.
    The Chimera, II, 173.
    The Story of Phaethon, II, 206.

  4. Historical Tales:
    Robert Bruce and the Spider, Volume V, 314.

  5. About Flowers and Plants:
    The Daffodils, Volume VII, 1.
    Trees and Ants That Help Each Other, VII, 306.
    A Bed of Nettles, VIII, 209.

  6. About Birds:
    Who Stole the Bird's Nest? Volume II, 399.
    Owls, IX, 229.

  7. About Other Animals:
    Elephant Hunting, Volume VI, 385.
    The Buffalo, VII, 96.
    The Pond in Winter, VII, 280.

The longer stories you will abbreviate in telling, and the children will still further shorten
them. Try, however, to retain the spirit of each. Do not try to tell all that is contained
in the longer articles mentioned above. Select interesting portions, a single anecdote, a few
facts that will hold attention.

At times vary the exercise by giving a very simple theme and ask the children to make up a
story to fit it. If they have difficulty, help them to think and talk. When they see what you
want some will surprise you with their vivid imaginations and picturesque modes of expression.
Suppose you have in mind the fable The Wind and the Sun (Volume I, Page 95). You might present
the idea to them in this form: "The Wind and the Sun each tried to make a man take off his
coat. The Wind tried and failed, then the Sun tried and succeeded. Can you tell me a story
about that?" If you meet with no satisfactory response, begin questioning somewhat in this
style, and perhaps the child will answer nearly as indicated:

Question. You don't know what I mean? Then let us tell it together. How do you think the Wind
would try to make a man take off his coat?

Answer. He would try to blow it off.

Q. How would he blow?

A. He would blow hard.

Q. Can you think of another word besides hard to show how he would blow?

A. Fierce.

Q. Fiercely. Yes, "fiercely" is a good word. How fiercely would he blow?

A. Very fierce.

Q. Yes, very fiercely. Did you notice I said "fiercely," John? Now can't you think of a comparison
with something else that is fierce, so that our story will sound well and people will like it?

A. A lion is fierce. We could say, "He blew as fiercely as a lion."

Q. But a lion does not blow. What does he do?

A. He tears his prey when he captures it.

Q. That's good. Now tell me how the Wind tried to make the man take off his coat.

A. The Wind blew fiercely as a lion tears his prey.

Q. Good. Did the man take off his coat?

A. I don't think he did. I think he would try to keep it on.

Q. How hard do you think he would try?

A. As hard as he could.

Q. Did he lose it?

A. No. No matter what the Wind did I think the man would keep on his coat.

Q. Will you please tell the story as far as we have gone?

Q. That is good, but it does not satisfy me yet. I want a longer, prettier story. Let us make
believe the Wind and the Sun are two men. Make them talk so they will seem real to us. Can't
you start us?

A. One day Mr. Wind and Mr. Sun got to talking. Each one thought he was stronger than the other.
They saw a man walking along the road. He had a big overcoat on and Mr. Wind said that he--

Q. Tell us exactly what Mr. Wind said.

A. Mr. Wind said, "I am stronger than you are. I can make that man take off his coat. You can't!"

Q. That is a fine start. Tell us what the Sun said.

A. The Sun said that he--

Q. "That he?"

A. The Sun said, "I can make him take off his coat, and I can do it quicker than you can."

Q. Good. Go on.

A. So they tried. Mr. Wind began. He blew as hard as he could and whistled around the man.
He blew as fiercely as a lion tears his prey, but the man wouldn't take off his coat.

Q. What would the man do to his coat?

A. I think he'd hold on to it, button it up, draw it close around him.

Q. Good. Very good. Now tell the story as well as you can.

A. Begin at the beginning?

Q. Yes.

