The little hermit-crab lives alone in an empty shell, which he carries about with him wherever
he goes. His reason for living in a shell is because the hind part of his body is soft, and
not protected with a hard shell, like the fore part of his body. The end of the soft body of
the hermit-crab is provided with hooks, or claspers, with which he holds on to the inner chamber
of his shell so tightly that it is almost impossible to get him out except by breaking the
shell. Very often these crabs are to be found with a colony of living polyps growing on their
shells. These polyps are very interesting from the fact of their being the parents of one of
our most beautiful jelly-fishes.

When a hermit-crab grows too large, or so fat that his shell pinches him, he hunts up a new
one. First he pushes his long claws far into it, just to see that no one is inside, and that
it is nice and clean; then he rolls it over and over, often lifting it so as to judge of its
weight. If it suits, he drags it close to the entrance of his old home, and in an instant he
has whisked into his new house. Hermit-crabs are great house-hunters, often moving just for
the fun of it. They are always skylarking with one another like monkeys, and, in truth, they
are the monkeys of an aquarium. When the water in an aquarium becomes bad, they are sure to
indicate it by leaving their shells, and trying to crawl out of the tank. In all respects they
are the most valuable and interesting inhabitants of the aquarium.

Pipe-fish are apt to be delicate; still, if your aquarium is in perfect health, and the water
is teeming with minute animal life, they will get along nicely. Their favorite food consists
of the eggs of all small crustaceans, such as shrimps, sand-hoppers, and lady-crabs. Mrs. Pipe-fish
does not take care of the children, but Mr. Pipe-fish places them in a long folding pocket
that runs along the under side of his body (which I have tried to show in the engraving). When
he lets them out of this pocket into the vast ocean world to shift for themselves, they are
only a quarter of an inch long, no thicker than a bristle, and almost transparent.

Think of a crab decorating himself with bright-colored sea-weed, so that he is called the dandy-crab!
Still, he is not so vain, after all, as he covers himself with sea-weed that he may escape
the sharp eyes and sharp teeth of hungry fishes. I once had a dandy-crab whose back I had scrubbed
clean, after which I placed him in an aquarium containing a plain sand bottom. In this tank
I also placed a hungry black-fish, who soon took a nip at him, securing only one of his legs.
This so frightened the dandy-crab that he began searching over the aquarium for material to
cover himself with. In the tank I placed several sea-flowers (anemones), cut into small pieces.
These he immediately seized, and soon had them fastened over his back, using both claws, he
being both right and left handed, and sticking them on with a kind of glue that he took from
his mouth. In a few days the pieces of sea-flowers began to develop into perfect flowers, causing
the crab to look very gorgeous.

When a crab loses a claw, he does not mind it; in fact, he rather likes it, as it provides
him with an extra meal. All he does is to sit right down and bite it off to the next perfect
joint, eating the fragments of flesh with much relish. In a week's time a new claw begins to
grow. When a spider-crab grows too large for his clothes, he rips them at the back, and out
he slides, a helpless soft mass. He is now a "soft crab," and for thirty-six hours he has to
hide away, as all fish are hunting for soft-crab dinners. At the end of thirty-six hours he
is hard again, and has increased one-third in size.

Of all laughable fish a baby swell-fish is the funniest. Beautiful in color, odd in shape,
with the power of blowing himself up into a round ball covered on the under side with spines,
does he not look wise and important? And he has only two teeth, but can't he bite? Why he swells
himself up so is not exactly known; but I imagine that when he finds himself inside of a fish,
he makes it so uncomfortable for that fish's general health that the fish is glad to get rid
of him.

Next to a young swell-fish comes a young sea-robin, a very interesting fish. He can make a
musical grunting noise when he feels good, and will spread his beautiful wings, and sail through
the water as proud as a peacock. When he is tired, he likes to bury himself up to his eyes
in sand, for which he uses his two curious hooked fingers. He also uses these to dig out the
sand-shrimps. Some years ago great numbers of very large sea-robins visited our coast, and
were sold in the New York markets under the name of Dolly Vardens, on account of their possessing
such bright and showy colors.

The shell-fish known as the oyster drill is one of the greatest of all enemies to young oysters,
which he destroys by boring minute holes through their shells, and when the oyster opens, after
death, eating him up. It is not known how he drills this very minute hole so quickly.

The clinker (serpula) is really a vast marine tenement-house for a social community of beautiful
sea-worms, who build up houses of shelly tubes twisted and fastened together. Each worm has
a stopper, or cork, to his shell, with which he can close up the entrance to his house.

When this sea-worm is feeding he throws out from the entrance of his tube a beautiful double
plume. These worms are the favorite food of the sea-horse, who sucks them out with a sharp
snapping noise.

The sea-horse is considered to be one of the greatest prizes that can be obtained for an aquarium.
For dignity of carriage, grace of motion, and beauty of form, he excels all other fish. The
papa sea-horse takes care of his children the same as the pipe-fish, to which he is closely
related; only his pocket is in front of him, and is much larger, and different in shape. This
pocket is lined inside with a fatty substance, on which the young sea-horses feed till they
are strong enough to be crowded into the world. The sea-horse, when he thinks it time to turn
out his children, presses his big pocket (for he has no hands nor claws) against a shell or
piece of stone, and out swim the young horses. At first they are apt to form into bundles by
locking their tails together, but as they become accustomed to their new surroundings, and
are stronger, they separate. The male sea-horse displays much pride over his young, and remains
with them several days. Sea-horses can look two ways at once, as each eye moves independently
of the other.

The tube-flower is very common along our coast. It lives in a long, thin, light-colored tube,
composed of a material resembling horn. It has the power of stinging slightly, but, for all
that, is so beautiful that no aquarium should be without it. This animal casts off its flower,
or head, every few days, after which a new one makes its appearance.

Sea-flowers (anemones) are always to be found in the same locations with tube-flowers. Just
to think of taking an animal that moves and eats and breathes, and cutting him up, and that
each piece will become a perfect animal again! Yet such is the case with sea-flowers. When
they wish to produce young, they tear off pieces from their bodies (the base parts), which
soon develop into young sea-flowers. In the illustration I have shown three kinds of sea-flowers,
all of which are common on our coast. The inside part of a sea-flower is divided by many partitions,
forming a circle of store-rooms; into these rooms he passes his food, where it remains till
all the juices are extracted, after which he passes it out again the same way it entered. The
colors and forms of all our sea-flowers are wonderfully beautiful. Their thousands of hands
(the fringe-like part), which are constantly moving in all directions in search of food, remind
one of an animated aster.

Small groups of acorn-barnacles, when attached to stones or wood, are very desirable objects
for the aquarium. For a few hours after being placed in their new home they will remain closed,
but as soon as they become accustomed to their surroundings, one after another will cautiously
throw out his feathery casting-net in search of food. Then the reaching and grasping become
so rapid and general that the eye can hardly follow their motions.

I feed my fish three times a week with soft or hard shell clams cut fine, taking great care
that no food remains uneaten to taint the water. For bottoms for aquariums I use coarse bird-gravel,
or pebbles thoroughly washed, with small masses of rock-work.

UNCLE EBENEZER'S UMBRELLA.

BY JAMES B. MARSHALL.

"Oh, mamma, we're going to the orchard to play," said Archy. "May we take an umbrella to keep
the sun off?"

Mamma Stewardson, being up stairs, called in a low voice over the baluster, "Yes, dears, and
take a large one."

So Archy and Gertie took the very largest umbrella in the stand--an enormous one. Its ribs
were whalebone, its cover green gingham, and the handle ended in a knob nearly as large as
a door-knob. But that umbrella was very highly valued by Uncle Ebenezer Stewardson, its owner,
who carried it with him wherever he went, rain or shine. Uncle Ebenezer's grown nieces and
nephews thought it very odd in him to carry such a queer-looking umbrella. They often hoped
that something would happen to it, so that when they went about with him--he was one of the
kindest and happiest of uncles--every one wouldn't be attracted by that great green bundle.
How Cousin Adolphus did despise that umbrella!

But Gertie and Archy took the umbrella, only thinking it was a splendid big one; and as Uncle
Ebenezer was taking a nap, of course he couldn't know who was carrying off his precious property.
As they passed out, Cousin Adolphus was arranging his sketching materials to go down to the
pond back of the woods to make a drawing of the mill for a young lady.

Among the daisies in the orchard Gertie started up a rabbit, which ran slowly toward the woods.
Gertie and Archy went skimming over the field after it, laughing and flourishing the great
green umbrella at such a rate that the rabbit ran into the woods, where it could not be found.

However, they found a cleared space just within the edge of the woods that was covered with
soft green moss, and in its midst stood the most inviting smooth-top tree trunk for them to
rest on. And while they sat talking about the rabbit, a young man all dressed in green approached
them. His face and hands were also green, and he carried a long green bag.

"Children, welcome into my woods," said he, in a queer but pleasant voice.

Archy was about to exclaim, "It's not your woods, but Uncle Eb's," when the man in green went
on to say: "I'm the Green Wizard of the Forest, and take great pleasure in exhibiting my tricks
to little folks. Would you like to see me perform some of them?"

"Yes, please," said Archy, drawing a long breath, and looking intently at the Wizard.

"My little girl, will you lend me your pocket-handkerchief?" asked the Wizard, in that same
queer, pleasant voice. "Now, then," continued he, as he took off his green hat, and placed
within it Gertie's handkerchief, "I'll make you some fine candies."

Striking a match, the Wizard seemed to set the handkerchief on fire, as he held the hat in
the air. After a few moments he blew out the flame, and then took from the hat four large handfuls
of fine bonbons.

