The Legacy of GREECE

Essays by GILBERT MURRAY, W. R. INGE, J. BURNET, SIR T. L. HEATH, D'ARCY W. THOMPSON, CHARLES
SINGER, R. W. LIVINGSTON, A. TOYNBEE, A. E. ZIMMERN, PERCY GARDNER, SIR REGINALD BLOMFIELD

Edited by

R. W. LIVINGSTONE

OXFORD

AT THE CLARENDON PRESS

PRINTED IN ENGLAND AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, OXFORD BY JOHN JOHNSON PRINTER TO THE UNIVERSITY

In spite of many differences, no age has had closer affinities with Ancient Greece than our
own; none has based its deeper life so largely on ideals which the Greeks brought into the
world. History does not repeat itself. Yet, if the twentieth century searched through the past
for its nearest spiritual kin, it is in the fifth and following centuries before Christ that
they would be found. Again and again, as we study Greek thought and literature, behind the
veil woven by time and distance, the face that meets us is our own, younger, with fewer lines
and wrinkles on its features and with more definite and deliberate purpose in its eyes. For
these reasons we are to-day in a position, as no other age has been, to understand Ancient
Greece, to learn the lessons it teaches, and, in studying the ideals and fortunes of men with
whom we have so much in common, to gain a fuller power of understanding and estimating our
own. This book--the first of its kind in English--aims at giving some idea of what the world
owes to Greece in various realms of the spirit and the intellect, and of what it can still
learn from her.

THE EDITOR.

October 1921.

CONTENTS

                                                                  PAGE

THE VALUE OF GREECE TO THE FUTURE OF THE WORLD. By GILBERT MURRAY, F.B.A., Regius Professor
of Greek in the University of Oxford                                             1

RELIGION. By W. R. INGE, D.D., Dean of St. Paul's                   25

PHILOSOPHY. By J. BURNETT, F.B.A., Professor of Greek in the University of St. Andrews    
57

MATHEMATICS AND ASTRONOMY. By Sir T. L. HEATH, K.C.B., K.C.V.O., F.R.S.                        97

NATURAL SCIENCE. By D'ARCY W. THOMPSON, F.R.S., Professor of Natural History in the University
of St. Andrews      137

BIOLOGY. By CHARLES SINGER, Lecturer in the History of Medicine in University College, London
163

MEDICINE. By CHARLES SINGER                                        201

LITERATURE. By R. W. LIVINGSTONE, Fellow of Corpus Christi College, Oxford                
249

HISTORY. By ARNOLD TOYNBEE, Koraés Professor of Byzantine and Modern Greek Language, Literature,
and History in the University of London                                               289

POLITICAL THOUGHT. By A. E. ZIMMERN, late Wilson Professor of International Politics, University
College of Wales, Aberystwyth   321

THE LAMPS OF GREEK ART. By PERCY GARDNER, F.B.A., Merton Professor of Classical Archaeology
in the University of Oxford     353

ARCHITECTURE. By Sir REGINALD BLOMFIELD, F.S.A., R.A.              397

THE VALUE OF GREECE TO THE FUTURE OF THE WORLD

If the value of man's life on earth is to be measured in dollars and miles and horse-power,
ancient Greece must count as a poverty-stricken and a minute territory; its engines and implements
were nearer to the spear and bow of the savage than to our own telegraph and aeroplane. Even
if we neglect merely material things and take as our standard the actual achievements of the
race in conduct and in knowledge, the average clerk who goes to town daily, idly glancing at
his morning newspaper, is probably a better behaved and infinitely better informed person than
the average Athenian who sat spellbound at the tragedies of Aeschylus. It is only by the standard
of the spirit, to which the thing achieved is little and the quality of mind that achieved
it much, which cares less for the sum of knowledge attained than for the love of knowledge,
less for much good policing than for one free act of heroism, that the great age of Greece
can be judged as something extraordinary and unique in value.

By this standard, if it is a legitimate and reasonable one to apply, we shall be able to understand
why classical Greek literature was the basis of education throughout all later antiquity; why
its re-discovery, however fragmentary and however imperfectly understood, was able to intoxicate
the keenest minds of Europe and constitute a kind of spiritual 'Re-birth', and how its further
and further exploration may be still a task worth men's spending their lives upon and capable
of giving mankind guidance as well as inspiration.

But is such a standard legitimate and reasonable? We shall gain nothing by unanalysed phrases.
But I think surely it is merely the natural standard of any philosophical historian. Suppose
it is argued that an average optician at the present day knows more optics than Roger Bacon,
the inventor of spectacles; suppose it is argued that therefore he is, as far as optics go,
a greater man, and that Roger Bacon has nothing to teach us; what is the answer? It is, I suppose,
that Roger Bacon, receiving a certain amount of knowledge from his teachers, had that in him
which turned it to unsuspected directions and made it immensely greater and more fruitful.
The average optician has probably added a little to what he was taught, but not much, and has
doubtless forgotten or confused a good deal. So that, if by studying Roger Bacon's life or
his books we could get into touch with his mind and acquire some of that special moving and
inspiring quality of his, it would help us far more than would the mere knowledge of the optician.

This truth is no doubt hard to see in the case of purely technical science; in books of wider
range, such as Darwin's for instance, it is easy for any reader to feel the presence of a really
great mind, producing inspiration of a different sort from that of the most excellent up-to-date
examination text-book. In philosophy, religion, poetry, and the highest kinds of art, the greatness
of the author's mind seems as a rule to be all that matters; one almost ignores the date at
which he worked. This is because in technical sciences the element of mere fact, or mere knowledge,
is so enormous, the elements of imagination, character, and the like so very small. Hence,
books on science, in a progressive age, very quickly become 'out of date', and each new edition
usually supersedes the last. It is the rarest thing for a work of science to survive as a text-book
more than ten years or so. Newton's Principia is almost an isolated instance among modern writings.

Yet there are some few such books. Up till about the year 1900 the elements of geometry were
regularly taught, throughout Europe, in a text-book written by a Greek called Eucleides in
the fourth or third century B. C.[1] That text-book lasted over two thousand years. Now, of
course, people have discovered a number of faults in Euclid, but it has taken them all that
time to do it.

    [1] Since this paper was first written Euclid, Book I, in the
    Greek, has been edited with a commentary by Sir Thomas Heath
    (Cambridge Press, 1920). It is full of interest and instruction.

Again, I knew an old gentleman who told me that, at a good English school in the early nineteenth
century, he had been taught the principles of grammar out of a writer called Dionysius Thrax,
or Denis of Thrace. Denis was a Greek of the first century B. C., who made or carried out the
remarkable discovery that there was such a thing as a science of grammar, i. e. that men in
their daily speech were unconsciously obeying an extraordinarily subtle and intricate body
of laws, which were capable of being studied and reduced to order. Denis did not make the whole
discovery himself; he was led to it by his master Aristarchus and others. And his book had
been re-edited several times in the nineteen-hundred odd years before this old gentleman was
taught it.

To take a third case: all through later antiquity and the middle ages the science of medicine
was based on the writings of two ancient doctors, Hippocrates and Galen. Galen was a Greek
who lived at Rome in the early Empire, Hippocrates a Greek who lived at the island of Cos in
the fifth century B. C. A great part of the history of modern medicine is a story of emancipation
from the dead hand of these great ancients. But one little treatise attributed to Hippocrates
was in active use in the training of medical students in my own day in Scotland and is still
in use in some American Universities. It was the Oath taken by medical students in the classic
age of Greece when they solemnly faced the duties of their profession. The disciple swore to
honour and obey his teacher and care for his children if ever they were in need; always to
help his patients to the best of his power; never to use or profess to use magic or charms
or any supernatural means; never to supply poison or perform illegal operations; never to abuse
the special position of intimacy which a doctor naturally obtains in a sick house, but always
on entering to remember that he goes as a friend and helper to every individual in it.

We have given up that oath now: I suppose we do not believe so much in the value of oaths.
But the man who first drew up that oath did a great deed. He realized and defined the meaning
of his high calling in words which doctors of unknown tongues and undiscovered countries accepted
from him and felt to express their aims for well over two thousand years.

Now what do I want to illustrate by these three instances? The rapidity with which we are now
at last throwing off the last vestiges of the yoke of Greece? No, not that. I want to point
out that even in the realm of science, where progress is so swift and books so short-lived,
the Greeks of the great age had such genius and vitality that their books lived in a way that
no others have lived. Let us get away from the thought of Euclid as an inky and imperfect English
school-book, to that ancient Eucleides who, with exceedingly few books but a large table of
sand let into the floor, planned and discovered and put together and re-shaped the first laws
of geometry, till at last he had written one of the great simple books of the world, a book
which should stand a pillar and beacon to mankind long after all the political world that Eucleides
knew had been swept away and the kings he served were conquered by the Romans, and the Romans
in course of time conquered by the barbarians, and the barbarians themselves, with much labour
and reluctance, partly by means of Eucleides' book, eventually educated; so that at last, in
our own day, they can manage to learn their geometry without it. The time has come for Euclid
to be superseded; let him go. He has surely held the torch for mankind long enough; and books
of science are born to be superseded. What I want to suggest is that the same extraordinary
vitality of mind which made Hippocrates and Euclid and even Denis of Thrace last their two
thousand years, was also put by the Greeks of the great age into those activities which are,
for the most part at any rate, not perishable or progressive but eternal.

This is a simple point, but it is so important that we must dwell on it for a moment. If we
read an old treatise on medicine or mechanics, we may admire it and feel it a work of genius,
but we also feel that it is obsolete: its work is over; we have got beyond it. But when we
read Homer or Aeschylus, if once we have the power to admire and understand their writing,
we do not for the most part have any feeling of having got beyond them. We have done so no
doubt in all kinds of minor things, in general knowledge, in details of technique, in civilization
and the like; but hardly any sensible person ever imagines that he has got beyond their essential
quality, the quality that has made them great.

Doubtless there is in every art an element of mere knowledge or science, and that element is
progressive. But there is another element, too, which does not depend on knowledge and which
does not progress but has a kind of stationary and eternal value, like the beauty of the dawn,
or the love of a mother for her child, or the joy of a young animal in being alive, or the
courage of a martyr facing torment. We cannot for all our progress get beyond these things;
there they stand, like light upon the mountains. The only question is whether we can rise to
them. And it is the same with all the greatest births of human imagination. As far as we can
speculate, there is not the faintest probability of any poet ever setting to work on, let us
say, the essential effect aimed at by Aeschylus in the Cassandra-scene of the Agamemnon, and
doing it better than Aeschylus. The only thing which the human race has to do with that scene
is to understand it and get out of it all the joy and emotion and wonder that it contains.

This eternal quality is perhaps clearest in poetry: in poetry the mixture of knowledge matters
less. In art there is a constant development of tools and media and technical processes. The
modern artist can feel that, though he cannot, perhaps, make as good a statue as Pheidias,
he could here and there have taught Pheidias something: and at any rate he can try his art
on subjects far more varied and more stimulating to his imagination. In philosophy the mixture
is more subtle and more profound. Philosophy always depends in some sense upon science, yet
the best philosophy seems generally to have in it some eternal quality of creative imagination.
Plato wrote a dialogue about the constitution of the world, the Timaeus, which was highly influential
in later Greece, but seems to us, with our vastly superior scientific knowledge, almost nonsensical.
Yet when Plato writes about the theory of knowledge or the ultimate meaning of Justice or of
Love, no good philosopher can afford to leave him aside: the chief question is whether we can
rise to the height and subtlety of his thought.

And here another point emerges, equally simple and equally important if we are to understand
our relation to the past. Suppose a man says: 'I quite understand that Plato or Aeschylus may
have had fine ideas, but surely anything of value which they said must long before this have
become common property. There is no need to go back to the Greeks for it. We do not go back
and read Copernicus to learn that the earth goes round the sun.' What is the answer? It is
that such a view ignores exactly this difference between the progressive and the eternal, between
knowledge and imagination. If Harvey discovers that the blood is not stationary but circulates,
if Copernicus discovers that the earth goes round the sun and not the sun round the earth,
those discoveries can easily be communicated in the most abbreviated form. If a mechanic invents
an improvement on the telephone, or a social reformer puts some good usage in the place of
a bad one, in a few years we shall probably all be using the improvement without even knowing
what it is or saying Thank you. We may be as stupid as we like, we have in a sense got the
good of it.

But can one apply the same process to Macbeth or Romeo and Juliet? Can any one tell us in a
few words what they come to? Or can a person get the good of them in any way except one--the
way of vivid and loving study, following and feeling the author's meaning all through? To suppose,
as I believe some people do, that you can get the value of a great poem by studying an abstract
of it in an encyclopaedia or by reading cursorily an average translation of it, argues really
a kind of mental deficiency, like deafness or colour-blindness. The things that we have called
eternal, the things of the spirit and the imagination, always seem to lie more in a process
than in a result, and can only be reached and enjoyed by somehow going through the process
again. If the value of a particular walk lies in the scenery, you do not get that value by
taking a short cut or using a fast motor-car.

In looking back, then, upon any vital and significant age of the past we shall find objects
of two kinds. First, there will be things like the Venus of Milo or the Book of Job or Plato's
Republic, which are interesting or precious in themselves, because of their own inherent qualities;
secondly, there will be things like the Roman code of the Twelve Tables or the invention of
the printing-press or the record of certain great battles, which are interesting chiefly because
they are causes of other and greater things or form knots in the great web of history--the
first having artistic interest, the second only historical interest, though, of course, it
is obvious that in any concrete case there is generally a mixture of both.

Now Ancient Greece is important in both ways. For the artist or poet it has in a quite extraordinary
degree the quality of beauty. For instance, to take a contrast with Rome: if you dig about
the Roman Wall in Cumberland you will find quantities of objects, altars, inscriptions, figurines,
weapons, boots and shoes, which are full of historic interest but are not much more beautiful
than the contents of a modern rubbish heap. And the same is true of most excavations all over
the world. But if you dig at any classical or sub-classical site in the Greek world, however
unimportant historically, practically every object you find will be beautiful. The wall itself
will be beautiful; the inscriptions will be beautifully cut; the figurines, however cheap and
simple, may have some intentional grotesques among them, but the rest will have a special truthfulness
and grace; the vases will be of good shapes and the patterns will be beautiful patterns. If
you happen to dig in a burying-place and come across some epitaphs on the dead, they will practically
all--even when the verses do not quite scan and the words are wrongly spelt--have about them
this inexplicable touch of beauty.

I am anxious not to write nonsense about this. One could prove the point in detail by taking
any collection of Greek epitaphs, and that is the only way in which it can be proved. The beauty
is a fact, and if we try to analyse the sources of it we shall perhaps in part understand how
it has come to pass.

