     While waiting for his meal, he sat in an arm-chair, with his
     eyes fixed on the bed where Lawleigh, or, as we must now call
     him, Lord Berville, lay apparently asleep. What the ruffian's
     thoughts were we cannot say, but those of his involuntary guest
     were strange enough. His uncle dead, and the fortune not
     alienated, as, with the exception of a very small portion, he
     had always understood his predecessor had already done--his
     life at this moment in jeopardy; for a cursory glance at the
     tall figure of the marauder, as he had entered, had sufficed to
     show that the object of his search was before him--and too well
     he knew the unscrupulous villany of the man to doubt for a
     moment what his conduct would be if he found his pursuer in his
     power. If he could slip from the bed unobserved, and master the
     weapon on the table, he might effect his escape, and even
     secure the murderer; for he made light of the resistance that
     could be offered by the young woman, or by George. But he felt,
     without opening his eyes, that the glance of the old man was
     fixed on him; and, with the determination to use his pistol on
     the first demonstration of violence, he resolved to wait the
     course of events. The breakfast in the mean time was brought
     in, and Janet was about to remove the fowling-piece from the
     table, when she was startled by the rough voice of her father,
     ordering her to leave it alone, as it might have work to do
     before long.

     The girl's looks must have conveyed an enquiry; he answered
     them with a shake of his head towards the bed. "I may have
     business to settle with him," he said, in a hoarse whisper;
     and the girl pursued her task in silence. The old man, after
     cautioning her not to touch the gun, turned to the dark press
     at one end of the room, and in about half a minute had filled
     his pipe with tobacco, and re-seated himself in the chair. But
     Janet had seized the opportunity of his back being turned, and
     poured the hot water from the teapot into the touch-hole, and
     was again busy in arranging the cups and saucers.

     "Where's George?" enquired the father; "but poh, he's a
     chicken-hearted fellow, and would be of no use in case of a
     row"---- So saying, he went on with his breakfast.

     "He's awake!" he said suddenly. "I seed his eye."

     "Oh no, father! he's too weak to open his eyes--indeed he is."

     "I seed his eye, I tell ye; and more than that, I've seed the
     eye afore. Ha! am I betrayed?"

     He started up, and seized the fowling-piece. His step sounded
     across the floor, and Berville threw down the clothes in a
     moment, and sprang to his feet.

     "You here?" cried the ruffian, and levelled the gun, drew the
     trigger, and recoiled in blank dismay when he missed fire, and
     saw the athletic figure of Berville distended to its full size
     with rage, and a pistol pointed with deadly aim within a yard
     of his heart. He raised the but-end of his gun; but his
     daughter, rushing forward, clung to his arm.

     "Fire not--but fly!" she cried to Berville. "Others are within
     call, and you are lost."

     "Villain!" said Berville, "miscreant! murderer! you have but a
     moment to live"--and cocked the pistol.

     "Let go my arm, girl," cried the old man, struggling.

     "I have saved your life--I hindered the gun from going off--all
     I ask you in return is to spare my father." She still retained
     her hold on the old man's arm, who, however, no longer
     struggled to get it free.

     "What! you turned against me?" he said, looking ferociously at
     the beautiful imploring face of his daughter. "You, to revenge
     whom I did it all! Do you know what I did? I watched your
     silken wooer till I saw him in the presence of this youth--I
     killed Sir Stratford Manvers"----

     "And shall die for your crime," cried Berville; "but the death
     of a felon is what you deserve, and you shall have none other
     at my hands. In the mean time, as I think you are no fit
     companion for the young woman to whom I am indebted for my
     life, I shall offer her the protection of my mother, and take
     her from your house. If you consent to let us go in peace, I
     spare your life for the present; and will even for three days
     abstain from setting the emissaries of the law in search of
     you. After that, I will hunt you to the death. Young woman, do
     you accept my terms? If you refuse, your father dies before
     your face."

     "Shall I accept, father?"

     "If you stay, I lodge a bullet in your brain," said the old
     savage, and drew himself up.

     "Come, then," said Berville, leading Janet to the door. She
     turned round ere she quitted the cottage, but met a glance of
     such anger and threatening, that she hurried forward with
     Berville, who pursued his way rapidly through the wood."

["That fits in very nicely," said Jack Stuart; "and you may be getting ready the five pound
note, for I feel sure you know you back the losing horse. Can any thing be more like a genuine,
bona fide novel, the work of one man, and a devilish clever man too? Confess now, that if you
didn't know the trick of it, you would have thought it a splendid original work? But perhaps
you're throat's dry with so much reading? Here's another bottle of Lafitte; and we can miss
over a volume and a half of foreign scenes, which you can imagine; for they are to be found
in every one of the forty novels I sent for. Just imagine that the Countess takes her daughters
abroad--that Berville encounters them in the Colosseum by moonlight--quarrels--doubts--suspicions--and
a reconciliation; finally, they all come home, and you will find the last chapter of the last
volume in this."

Jack handed me a volume, evidently popular among circulating library students, for it was very
dirty; and I was just going to commence when Jack interrupted me.

"Stay," he said; "you must have a motto. Do you know Italian?"

"Not a word."

"Or Spanish, or German?"

"No."

"Well, you surely can recollect some Greek--for next to manuscript quotations and old plays,
you can't do better than have some foreign lines at the beginning of the chapter. What Greek
do you remember?--for, 'pon my honour; I've forgotten all mine."

"My dear Jack, I only know a line here and there."

"Out with them. Put them all in a row, and never mind the meaning."

Thus urged, I indited the following as a headpiece.]

    "Deinè de clangè genet' argurioio bioio,
    Be d'akeion para thina poluphlosboio thalasses,
    Thelo legein Atreidas, thelo de Cadmon adein,
    Ton d'apomeibomenos prosephè podas-ocus Achilleus."
                               HOMER, Iliad, 1. I.

["Excellent! bravo!" said Jack; "they'll see at once the author is a gentleman and a scholar;
and now go on."]

     The crimson and gold drawing-room of Lorrington Caste was
     filled with company, the court-yard crowded with carriages, and
     the coachmen and footmen in gorgeous liveries, with a splendid
     white satin favour at the side of their hats. The view from the
     window----

["Stop," said Jack Stuart, "here's a better description. I cut it out of the Times"----]

     The view from the window involved a spacious assemblage of all
     the numerous beauties and illustrations that cast a magnificent
     air of grandeur over one of

     ENGLAND'S NOBLEST MANSIONS.

     The extensive shrubberies clothed the verdant meads, and threw
     a shade of deep green tints over an

     EXTENSIVE ARTIFICIAL LAKE,

     on which floated, like a nymph or naiad, a beautiful

     SAILING BOAT,

     painted bright green, and fit for instant use. Further off, in
     one of those indistinct distances immortalized by the pencil of
     Turner--now softened into sober beauty by "the autumnal hue,
     the sear and yellow leaf," as an immortal bard expresses it, in
     language which the present writer does not imitate, and could
     not, without great difficulty, excel, was an

     IMMENSE DAIRY FARM,

     fit for the accommodation of

     THIRTY MILK COWS,

     of a peculiar breed, highly approved of by the

     RIGHT HONOURABLE THE EARL OF SPENCER.

     In other portions of the landscape rose statues which might
     have raised the envy of

     PRAXITELES, THE GRECIAN SCULPTOR,

     or attracted the love of the beautiful "Maid of France," who
     "sighed her soul away" in presence of

     THE APOLLO BELVIDERE,

     a figure, in the words of a living author,

    "Too fair to worship, too divine to love."

     The drawing-room of the mansion was of the amplest size, and
     contained some of the finest specimens of the taste and
     workmanship of

     JACKSON AND GRAHAM,

     enumerating Or-molu tables--escritoires--rosewood chairs richly
     inlaid--richly coloured

     AXMINSTER CARPET,

     and sofas covered with figured satin.

["That will do," said Jack. "Now go on with the book."]

     But while the company were engaged in detached groups, waiting
     the signal for proceeding into the great hall, where the
     ceremony was to be performed by special license, Lord Berville
     sent a message to the Countess, that he wished to say a few
     words to Lady Alice, in the library, before the commencement of
     the ceremony that was to make him the happiest of men. He
     waited impatiently, and in a few minutes the bride appeared,
     radiant in joy and beauty. She started, when she saw seated
     beside him a beautiful young woman, plainly, but richly drest.
     They rose when Lady Alice appeared.

     "Dearest Alice," said Berville, "I have told you that there was
     a person in this neighbourhood to whom my gratitude was
     unbounded, and who, I hope, has now an equal claim on yours,
     for she is the saviour of my life."

     "Indeed?"

     "Let it be a secret between us three," continued Berville; "but
     you agree with me, my friend," he said, turning to the
     stranger, "that there should be no reserve between a man and
     his wife. I told you, Alice, when we were at Rome, the story of
     an adventure I had on Barnley Wold, and of the heroic conduct
     of a young girl. In this lady you see her. She is now the wife
     of the vicar of my parish, and I trust will be a friend of both
     of us."

     Lady Alice threw her arms round Janet's neck, and said, "I know
     it all; we shall be friends; and nothing makes one so happy as
     to know we shall be so near each other."

     "Ah, madam, you know not how deeply I am indebted to his
     lordship's mother, for all her kindness, or how overpaid all my
     services are by the happiness of this moment."

     "And now, having made you thus acquainted, I must ask you, my
     kind friend, to hurry Lady Alice to the great hall, where your
     husband, I trust, is waiting to tie the indissoluble band."

     A joyous shout from the tenants assembled in the outer court,
     who became impatient for the appearance of the happy pair, gave
     evidence of the near approach of the happy moment, and Janet
     and Lady Alice hurried from the room. Lord Berville rang the
     bell. His servant appeared, being no other than our old
     acquaintance George, now softened by a year's sojourn in a
     foreign land.

     "George," said Lord Berville, "no one in the earth knows your
     position; from this hour, therefore, you cease to be my
     servant, and are the steward of my Lincolnshire estate. Your
     uncle's fate is unknown?"

     "His fate is known, my lord, that he died by his own hand in
     the hut on Barnley Wold; but his crimes are undiscovered."

     "Be it so; let them be alluded to between us no more. Your
     cousin Janet is the happy wife of my friend and chaplain; and I
     am delighted to show my appreciation of her nobleness and
     purity, by all the kindness I can bestow on her relations. Go
     down to Lincolnshire, Mr Andrews," said his lordship, shaking
     hands with George, "and when you are installed in the
     mansion-house, write to me; and now, farewell."

     It is difficult to say whose heart was most filled with joy on
     this eventful day. Lady Matilda, now happily married to Lord
     Merilands of the Guards, and the lovely Lady Mary Rosely,
     (shortly to be united to the young Earl of Gallowdale,) were
     pleased at the happiness of their friends; and certainly no
     prayer seemed to be more likely to receive its accomplishment
     than that which was poured forth, amidst the ringing of bells
     and the pealing of cannon, for the health and prosperity of
     Lord and Lady Berville.

Jack Stuart sat, with his eyes turned up to the ceiling, as if he were listening to the music
of the spheres.

"The best novel I have ever read!" he exclaimed; "and now, all I have got to do is to get it
copied fairly out, dedicate it to Lord William Lennox or Mr Henry Bulwer, and get my five or
six hundred guineas. It is a capital thing to lose on the Derby; for unless I had been drawn
for the hundred and fifty, I don't think the dovetail novel would ever have come into my head."

       *       *       *       *       *

INSCRIPTION ON THE FOUNDATION STONE OF THE NEW DINING-HALL, &c., NOW ERECTING FOR THE HON.
SOCIETY OF LINCOLN'S INN.

    Stet lapis arboribus nudo defixus in horto
      Fundamen pulchræ tempus in omne domûs.
    Aula vetus lites legumque ænigmata servet,
      Ipsa nova exorior nobilitanda coquo.

FREE TRANSLATION.

      No more look
      For shady nook,
    Poor perspiring stranger!
      Trees for bricks
      Cut their sticks,
    Lo! our salle-à-manager!

      Yon old hall,
      For suit and brawl,
    Still be famed in story;
      This must look
      To the cook
    For its only glory!

O.O.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCROPE ON SALMON FISHING.

     Days and Nights of Salmon Fishing in the Tweed. By WILLIAM
     SCROPE, Esq., F.L.S. 1 vol. royal 8vo. London, 1843.

We have here a work of great beauty in a pictorial and typographical point of view, and one
which abounds with practical information regarding the bolder branches of the "gentle art."
Mr Scrope conveys to us, in an agreeable and lively manner, the results of his more than twenty
years' experience as an angler in our great border river; and having now successfully illustrated,
both with pen and pencil, two of the most exciting of all sporting recreations--deer-stalking
and salmon-fishing--he may henceforward repose himself upon the mountain-side, or by the murmuring
waters, with the happy consciousness of having not only followed the bent of his own inclinations,
but contributed to the amusement and instruction of a numerous class of his fellow creatures.
The present volume consists of no dry didactic dissertations on an art unteachable by written
rules, and in which, without long and often dear-bought experience, neither precept nor example
will avail; but it contains a sufficiency of sagacious practical advice, and is enlivened by
the narration of numerous angling adventures, which bring out, with force and spirit, the essential
character of the sport in question.

Great advances have been recently made in our knowledge of the sea-going Salmonidæ. Indeed,
all the leading facts of primary importance in the history of their first development and final
growth are now distinctly known, and have lately been laid before the public in the form both
of original memoirs in our scientific journals, and the transactions of learned societies,
and of more popular abstracts in various literary works. We ourselves discussed the subject
in this Magazine, with our accustomed clearness, a couple of months ago; and we shall therefore
not here enter into the now no longer vexed question of the nature of parr and smolts,--all
doubt and disputation regarding the actual origin and family alliance of these fry, their descent
from and eventual conversion into grilse and salmon, being finally set at rest to the satisfaction
of every reasonable and properly instructed mind. We consider it, however, as a good proof
of the natural sagacity and observant disposition of our present author, that he should have
come to the same conclusion several years ago, regarding the habits and history of salmon-fry,
as that so successfully demonstrated by Mr Shaw. Mr Scrope dwells with no unbecoming pertinacity
on this point; but he shows historically, while fully admitting the importance and originality
of that ingenious observer's experimental proceedings, that he had, in the course of his own
private correspondence and conversation, called the attention of Mr Kennedy of Dunure as a
legislator, and of Sir David Brewster as a skilled interpreter of natural phenomena, to various
facts corresponding to those which have been since so skilfully detailed by Mr Shaw.

Our author, though well acquainted with the sporting capabilities of all parts of Scotland,
here confines himself to the lower portions of the Tweed, more than twelve miles of which he
has rented at different times. We in some measure regret that one so able to inform us, from
his extensive experiences regarding the nature and localities of the first-rate though rather
precarious angling for salmon which may be obtained in the northern parts of Scotland, should
not have contrived to include an account of the more uproarious Highland streams and placid
lakes frequented by this princely species. With all our admiration for the flowing Tweed, of
which we have fondly traced the early feeble voice--

                     "a fitful sound
    Wafted o'er sullen moss and craggy mound,
    Unfruitful solitudes, that seem'd t' upbraid
    The sun in heaven!"--

until, through many an intermediate scene of infinitely varied beauty, the expanded waters--

    "Gliding in silence with unfetter'd sweep,
    Beneath an ampler sky, a region wide
    Is open'd round them:--hamlets, towers, and towns,
    And blue-topp'd hills, behold them from afar:"--

     we should still have rejoiced to find a twin volume devoted to
     those wilder and more desolate scenes by which the northern
     angler is encompassed. Meanwhile we accept with pleasure our
     author's "Days and Nights" upon the Tweed.

     Salmon ascend from the sea, and enter this fine river, in
     greater or less abundance, during every period of the year,
     becoming more plentiful as the summer advances, provided there
     is a sufficiency of rain both to enlarge and discolour the
     waters, and thus enable the fish to pass more securely over
     those rippling shallows which so frequently occur between the
     deeper streams.

     "The salmon," says Mr Scrope "travels rapidly, so that those
     which leave the sea, and go up the Tweed on the Saturday night
     at twelve o'clock, after which time no nets are worked till the
     Sabbath is past, are found and taken on the following Monday
     near St Boswell's--a distance, as the river winds, of about
     forty miles. This I have frequently ascertained by experience.
     When the strength of the current in a spate is considered, and
     also the sinuous course a salmon must take in order to avoid
     the strong rapids, their power of swimming must be considered
     as extraordinary."--P. 10.

We do not clearly see, and should have been glad had the author stated, in what manner he ascertained
that his St Boswell's fish had not escaped the sweeping semicircles of the lower nets some
days previous. We admit that there is a great deal of Sabbath desecration committed by salmon,
but we also know that they travel upwards, though in smaller number and with greater risk,
during all the other days of the week; and we are curious to understand how any angler, however
accomplished, can carry his skill in physiognomy to such perfection, as to be able to look
a fish in the face on Monday morning, and decide that it had not left the sea till the clock
struck twelve on the Saturday night preceding.

     "As salmon" our author continues, "are supposed to enter a
     river merely for the purposes of spawning, and as that process
     does not take place till September, one cannot well account for
     their appearing in the Tweed and elsewhere so early as February
     and March, seeing that they lose in weight and condition during
     their continuance in fresh water. Some think it is to get rid
     of the sea-louse; but this supposition must be set aside, when
     it is known that this insect adheres only to a portion of the
     newly-run fish which are in best condition. I think it more
     probable that they are driven from the coasts near the river by
     the numerous enemies they encounter there, such as porpoises
     and seals, which devour them in great quantities. However this
     may be, they remain in the fresh water till the spawning months
     commence."--P. 10.

We cannot think that a great instinctive movement which seems, although with a widely extended
range in respect to tine, to pervade the entire mass of salmon along our universal shores,
should in any way depend upon so casual an occurrence as an onslaught by seals and porpoises,
or that fear rather than love should force them to seek the "pastoral melancholy" of the upper
streams and tributaries. That seals are destructive to salmon, and all other fishes which frequent
our shores or enter our estuaries, is undoubted; but we have no proof beyond the general allegation,
that porpoises pursue a corresponding prey. Our own researches certainly lead to an opposite
conclusion. The ordinary food of the cetacea, notwithstanding their enormous bulk, is minute
in size; and we have never been informed, on good authority--that is, on direct testimony--that
even herrings have ever been detected in the stomach of a porpoise. Yet we have careful notes
of the dissection of these creatures, taken from specimens slaughtered in the midst of millions
of herrings; and these notes show that the minute food with which the sea was swarming, and
which formed the sustenance for the time of the smaller fishes, also constituted the food of
the cetacea, which were merely gamboling through the herring shoals.

It is certainly, however, difficult to explain the motives by which the early spring salmon
are actuated in ascending rivers, seeing that they never spawn till autumn at the soonest.
We must remember, at the same time, that they are fresh-water fishes, born and bred in our
own translucent streams, and that they have an undoubted right to endeavour to return there
when it suits their own inclination. It may be, that although the ocean forms their favourite
feeding-ground, and their increase of size and continuance in high condition depend upon certain
marine attributes, which, of course, they can find only in the sea, yet the healthy development
of the spawn requires a long-continued residence in running waters. We have ascertained, by
experiment, that the ova of salmon, after being deposited, will make no progress in still water;
and we cannot illustrate this portion of the subject better than by transcribing a paragraph
from a letter, addressed to us in spring, (11th April 1843,) by Mr Andrew Young of Invershin,
the manager of the Duke of Sutherland's extensive salmon fisheries in the north of Scotland:--"You
are aware that it has been asserted by some of our wisest doctors, that salmon spawn in the
sea and in lochs, as well as in rivers. However, as doctors are proverbially allowed to differ,
I have this winter been trying to test the fact in the following manner: At the same time that
I deposited the spawn from which I made my other experiments, I also placed a basket of the
same spawn, with equal care, in a pool of pure still water from the river Shin; and I soon
found that, while that which was placed in the running pools was regularly progressing, every
particle put into the still water was as visibly degenerating, so that, by the time the spawn
in the running pools was alive, that in the still water was a rotten mass. I must therefore
say, from the above experiment, that rivers and running streams are the places fixed by nature
for salmon to hatch their young." "I would also," says our correspondent in a subsequent portion
of his letter, "mention an additional experiment on another point. It has been very generally
asserted that intense frost injured the spawn of salmon; and in this opinion I was myself,
in some measure, a believer. But as nothing but truth will stand a proper test, I turned my
attention to this subject also. During the time of our severest frost, I took a basket of spawn,
and placed it in a stream, where for three days it continued a frozen mass among the ice. I
then placed the basket again in the running pond from whence it had been taken, and carefully
watched the effect. I found that, although exposure to extreme cold had somewhat retarded the
progressive growth, it had not in the slightest degree destroyed vitality. I am therefore satisfied,
that unless frost goes the length of drying up the spawning beds altogether, it does not harm
the spawn, further than by retarding its growth during the actual continuance of excessive
cold. Thus fry are longer of hatching in a severe winter, than during an open one with little
frost."

When salmon first ascend the Tweed, they are brown upon the back, fat, and in high condition.
During the prevalence of cold weather they lie in deep and easy water, but as the season advances,
they draw into the great rough streams, taking up their stations where they are likely to be
least observed. But there the wily wand of the practiced angler casts its gaudy lure, and "Kinmont
Willie," "Michael Scott," or "The Lady of Mertoun," (three killing flies,) darting deceitfully
within their view, a sudden lounge is made--sometimes scarcely visible by outward signs--as
often accompanied by a watery heave, and a flash like that of an aurora borealis,--and downwards,
upwards, onwards, a twenty-pounder darts away with lightning speed, while the rapid reel gives
out that heart-stirring sound so musical to an angler's ear, and than which none accords so
well with the hoarser murmur of the brawling stream; till at last, after many an alternate
hope and fear, the glittering prize turns up his silvery unresisting broadside, in meek submission
to the merciless gaff.

Many otherwise well-principled persons believe that little more is required in angling than
the exercise of patience. Place a merely patient man, acquainted only with pedestrian movements,
upon a strong-headed horse determined to win, and give him the start at a steeple-chase, with
Lord Waterford not far behind, and it will be seen before he has crossed much country, where
patience is always as useful as it is praiseworthy. Place the same patient man, if he happens
to have been picked up alive, and eventually recovers, in the midst of a roaring rock-bound
river, and suppose him (a thing we confess, in his case, not quite conceivable) to have hooked
a twenty-pound salmon at the tail of the stream, just where it subsides into some vast, almost
fathomless, and far-extended pool, and that the said salmon, being rather of a restless disposition,
and moreover somewhat disquieted by feeling an unaccustomed barb in his cheek or tongue, takes
his 300 yards down the deep water at a single run, and then goes helter-skelter over a cataract,
which had occupied him most of the preceding Sunday to ascend, after many a sinewy but unsuccessful
spring! Will patience avail a man any thing in such a predicament, when he ought rather to
run like an Arab, or dive like a dolphin, "splash, splash, towards the sea," notwithstanding
the chance of his breaking his neck among the rocks, or being drowned while trying to round
a crag which he cannot clamber over? Let us hear Mr Scrope's account of his third cast, one
fine morning, when he came to Kingswell Lees.

     "Now every one knows that Kingswell Lees, in fishermen's
     phrase, fishes off land; so there I stood on terra dura,
     amongst the rocks that dip down to the water's edge. Having
     executed one or two throws, there comes me a voracious fish,
     and makes a startling dash at 'Meg with the muckle mouth.'[10]
     Sharply did I strike the caitiff; whereat he rolled round
     disdainful, making a whirl in the water of prodigious
     circumference; it was not exactly Charybdis, or the Maelstrom,
     but rather more like the wave occasioned by the sudden turning
     of a man-of-war's boat. Being hooked, and having by this time
     set his nose peremptorily down the stream, he flashed and
     whizzed away like a rocket. My situation partook of the nature
     of a surprise. Being on a rocky shore, and having had a bad
     start, I lost ground at first considerably; but the reel sang
     out joyously, and yielded a liberal length of line, that saved
     me from the disgrace of being broke. I got on the best pace I
     was able, and was on good ground just as my line was nearly all
     run out. As the powerful animal darted through Meg's Hole, I
     was just able to step back and wind up a few yards of line; but
     he still went at a killing pace, and when he came near to
     Melrose bridge, he evinced a distressing preference for passing
     through the further arch, in which case my line would have been
     cut by the pier. My heart sunk with apprehension, for he was
     near the opposite bank. Purdie, seeing this, with great
     presence of mind, took up some stones from the channel, and
     through them one by one between the fish and the said opposite
     bank. This naturally brought Master Salmo somewhat nearer, but
     still, for a few moments, we had a doubtful struggle for it. At
     length, by lowering the head of the rod, and thus not having so
     much of the ponderous weight of the fish to encounter, I towed
     him a little sideways; and so, advancing towards me with
     propitious fin, he shot through the arch nearest me.

     "Deeply immersed, I dashed after him as best I might; and
     arriving on the other side of the bridge, I floundered out upon
     dry land, and continued the chase. The salmon, 'right orgillous
     and presumptive,' still kept the strength of the stream, and
     abating nothing of its vigour, went swiftly down the whirls;
     then through the Boat shiel, and over the shallows, till he
     came to the throat of the Elm Wheel, down which he darted
     amain. Owing to the bad ground, the pace here became
     exceedingly distressing. I contrived to keep company with my
     fish, still doubtful of the result, till I came to the bottom
     of the long cast in question, when he still showed fight, and
     sought the shallow below. Unhappily the alders prevented my
     following by land, and I was compelled to take water again,
     which slackened my speed. But the stream soon expanding, and
     the current diminishing, my fish likewise travelled more
     slowly; so I gave a few sobs and recovered my wind a little,
     gathered up my line, and tried to bring him to terms. But he
     derided my efforts, and dashed off for another burst,
     triumphant. Not far below lay the rapids of the
     Slaughterford: he would soon gain them at the pace he was
     going: that was certain--see, he is there already! But I back
     out again upon dry land, nothing loth, and have a fair race
     with him. Sore work it is. I am a pretty fair runner, as has
     often been testified; but his velocity is surprising. On, on,
     still he goes, ploughing up the water like a steamer. 'Away
     with you, Charlie! quick, quick, man--quick for your life!
     Loosen the boat at the Cauld Pool, where we shall soon be,' and
     so indeed we were, when I jumped into the said craft, still
     having good hold of my fish.

     "The Tweed is here broad and deep, and the salmon at length had
     become somewhat exhausted; he still kept in the strength of the
     stream, however, with his nose seawards, and hung, heavily. At
     last he comes near the surface of the water. See how he shakes
     his tail and digs downwards, seeking the deep profound that he
     will never gain. His motions become more short and feeble: he
     is evidently doomed, and his race wellnigh finished. Drawn into
     the bare water, and not approving of the extended cleek, he
     makes another swift rush, and repeats this effort each time
     that he is towed to the shallows. At length he is cleeked in
     earnest, and hauled to shore; he proves one of the grey-skull
     newly run, and weighs somewhat above twenty pounds. The hook is
     not in his mouth, but in the outside of it: in which case a
     fish being able to respire freely, always shows extraordinary
     vigour, and generally sets his head down the stream.

     "During the whole period of my experience in fishing, though I
     have had some sharp encounters, yet I never knew any sport
     equal to this. I am out of breath even now, whenever I think of
     it. I will trouble any surveyor to measure the distance from
     the Kingswell Lees, the starting spot, above Melrose bridge, to
     the end of the Cauld Pool, the death place, by Melrose church,
     and tell me how much less it is than a mile and three
     quarters,--I say, I will trouble him to do so; and let him be a
     lover of the angle, that he may rather increase than diminish
     the distance, as in good feeling and respect for the craft it
     behoves him to do."--P. 174.

[Footnote 10: A successful salmon-fly so named.]

On the subject of salmon leaps, most of us have both heard and seen much that was neither new
nor true. Mr Yarrell, a cautious unimaginative man, accustomed to quote Shakspeare as if the
bard of Avon had been some quiet country clergyman who had taken his share in compiling the
statistical account of Scotland, confines their saltatorial powers only within ten or twelve
perpendicular feet. We hold, with Mr Scrope, that even this is probably much beyond the mark.
He thinks he never saw a salmon spring out of the water above five feet perpendicular.

