The first name on my list was that of the disciplinary sergeant-major. It was with a glow of
pride that I registered him with WILLIAM I. as "severe." The designation of Tonks, the Mess
waiter (whom we had discovered on the night the bomb fell on the aerodrome making a home and
a house of defence in the cookhouse stove), as "heroic" was distinctly happy. It was perhaps
unfortunate that the quartermaster-sergeant, an austere man from Renfrew, should have found,
on perusing his demobilisation card, that he was to be handed down to posterity as "avaricious."
I was also sorry to find the padre, usually so broad-minded, in a nasty temper about the character
given to his batman, who was, he assured me, the only pious man in the squadron and in private
life a dissenting minister. "Dissolute" certainly was on the face of things inappropriate,
but then it was no fault of mine that the merriest of English monarchs should have appeared
at the moment when I was filling up the papers of a minister of religion.

The light that my wooden monarchs throw on history is both interesting and, to a modern, precious.
For instance, the designation of the first Angevin king as "patriotic" will surprise many readers
of the late Bishop STUBBS. "Patriotic" is a wide term and may be applied to almost anything
from after-dinner flag-wagging to successful juggling with Colonial stocks and shares; yet
there are few who would have described it as the besetting virtue of HENRY I. But it was; his
little block says so.

JOHN, again, was "mean." I am sorry, for, though in some respects blameworthy, he had many
agreeable traits. His views on the honesty of his baronage are most entertaining. He was something
of a wit, a good judge of food and wine, and would have made an excellent Fellow of an Oxford
college. It is much to be regretted that he was mean.

Poor HENRY VI. is "silly." This is a hard judgment on the pioneer of the movement against low
backs in evening frocks, but doubtless he was silly in other things.

Some of my monarchs had the most excellent characters. EDWARD I. was "just," GEORGE IV. "courteous,"
OLIVER CROMWELL "noble"--a sad blow for the White Rose Club. Our younger monarchs were particularly
attractive persons, and it is a pity that they did not live long enough to display their qualities.
EDWARD VI. was "amiable," while EDWARD V., like all with expectations from their uncle, was
"hopeful." Poor child! he had need to be.

I am pained however that CHARLES II. was "dissolute." It was what HENRY VIII. dissolved the
monasteries for being--the impertinent old polygamist! For my part I love CHARLES for the affection
that he bore little dogs, for the chance saying on Sussex hills that this England was a country
well worth fighting for. Alas! that he should have been dissolute.

Best of all my friends is GEORGE III. He is portrayed with a jolly red nose and a mouth that
positively yawns for pudding. His character, which is his chief glory, is "benevolent." Who
would not rejoice to have been the object of his regal philanthropy? SAMUEL JOHNSON himself
did not hesitate to accept the bounty of this kindly monarch, though, while his predecessor
reigned, the great lexicographer had defined a pensioner as "a state hireling" paid "for treason
to his country."

Such are my friends the kings and queens of England. Happy the child who has such majesty to
be his guardian spirit. To him life will be a pomp, where vulgar democracy can have no part,
and death a trysting-place with old comrades--the child for whom

  "The kings of England, lifting up their swords,
  Shall gather at the gates of Paradise."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A HOME FROM HOME.

(An actual incident.)

  My fancy sought no English field,
    What time my holiday drew near;
  I felt no fond desire to wield
    The shrimping net of yesteryear;
  I found it easy to eschew
    All wish to hear a pierrot stating
  His lust to learn the rendezvous
    Of flies engaged in hibernating.

  Beyond the Channel I would range
    (I called it "cross the rolling main")
  And there achieve the thorough change
    Demanded by my jaded brain;
  It might be that an alien clime
    Would jog a failing inspiration,
  Buck up a bard and render rhyme
    Less difficult of excavation.

  A thorough change? Ah, barren quest,
    Foredoomed to fail ere half begun!
  Though left behind, my England pressed
    In hot pursuit of me, her son;
  London was brought again to view
    By hordes of maidens out for pillage,
  When from the train I stepped into
    A flag day in an Alpine village.

       *       *       *       *       *

WIRE AND BARBED WIRE.

This was the telegram that, after much hesitation, I had written out at the side desk in the
post-office and carried to the main desk to despatch:--

    Pactolus, London.

    St. Vitus carburetter stammer tyre scream Sanguine.

You will observe that it is unintelligible. Decoded, it meant that I, whose betting pseudonym
is Sanguine, wished to invest with Messrs. Lure, commission agents (not bookmakers, no, not
for a moment), whose telegraphic address is "Pactolus, London," a sum of ten pounds (carburetter)
on a horse called St. Vitus to win (stammer), and twenty pounds (tyre) for a place (scream).
I had done this for various reasons, none really good, but chiefly because every paper that
I had opened had urged me to do so, some even going so far as to dangle a double before me
with St. Vitus as one of the horses. Nearly all had described St. Vitus as a nap, setting up
the name not only in capitals but with a faithful asterisk beside it.

Having an account with Messrs. Lure and a liking now and then to indulge in a little flutter
over a gee (I am choosing my words very carefully) I had decided, after weighing the claims
of all the other runners, to take the advice of the majority and back the favourite, although
favourites acclaimed with stridency by the racing experts of the Press in unison have, I knew,
a way of failing. In betting on races, however, there are two elements that are never lacking:
hope against hope and an incomplete recollection of the past.

Having written out the telegram I took it to the main counter, to the section labelled "Telegrams,"
and slipped it under the grating towards the young woman, who, however, instead of dealing
with it, continued to tell an adjacent young woman about the arrangements that she and a friend
had made for their forthcoming holidays at Herne Bay.

The nature of those who have little flutters on gees is complex. The ordinary man, having written
out his telegram, on whatever subject it may be--whether it announces that he will arrive before
lunch and bring his clubs with him, or that, having important business to detain him at the
office, he will not be home to dinner--gets it through as soon as possible. He may be delayed
by the telegraph girl's detachment, but he would not be deterred. He would still send the telegram.
But those who bet are different. They are minutely sensitive to outside occurrences; always
seeking signs and interpreting them as favourable or unfavourable as the case may be; and refraining
from doing anything so decisive as to call the girl to order. Their game is to be plastic under
the fingers of chance; the faintest breath of dubiety can sway them. I had been in so many
minds about this thirty pound bet, which I could not really afford, that there was therefore
nothing for it, after waiting the two minutes that seemed to be ten, but to tear up the message,
in the belief that the friendly gods again had intervened. For luck is as much an affair of
refraining as of rushing in.

I therefore withdrew quietly from the conversation and scattered the little bits on the floor
as I did so. But I did not leave the office. Instead, I went to the side desk again and wrote
another telegram, which, with the necessary money (an awful lot), I pushed through the grating,
where the girls were still talking. My second telegram had no reference to horses--I had done
with gambling for the day--but ran thus:--

    Postmaster-General, London.

    Suggest you remind telegraph clerk on duty at this hour at this
    post-office that she perhaps talks a shade too much about Herne
    Bay and gives public too little consideration.

The girl, having ceased her chatter, took the telegram and began feverishly to count the words.
Then her tapping pencil slowed down and her brows contracted; she was assimilating their meaning.
Then, with a blush, and a very becoming one, she looked at me with an expression of distress
and said, "Do you really want this to go?"

"No," I said, withdrawing the money.

"I'm sorry I was not more attentive," she said.

"That's all right," I replied. "Tear it up."

And I came away, feeling, with a certain glow of satisfaction not unmixed with self-righteousness,
that I had done something to raise the post-office standard and to ensure better attention.
But the joke is that, if I had myself received better attention, I should have lost thirty
pounds, for St. Vitus was unplaced. This story must therefore remain without a moral.

E.V.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Notice in a Shop Window.=

    "Hats made to order, or revenerated."

Ah! that's what's wanted so badly to-day for the headgear of the Higher Clergy.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "V.C.W. Jupp, the Sussex amateur, has been invited to become a
    member of the M.C.C. team, which leaves for Australia on Saturday.
    A fine all-round cricketer, Jupp is a useful man to any team,
    but as he usually fields cover-point his inclusion would not
    necessarily improve the side in its weakest point--viz., the
    lack of oilfields."--Daily Paper.

Surely the fewer the better, if that's where the butter-fingers come from.

       *       *       *       *       *

BETWEEN TWO STOOLS.

[Dedicated to those high-minded and dispassionate leader-writers who, after prefacing their
remarks with the declaration that "we hold no brief for--" extreme views of all sorts, proceed
to show that the conduct of the extremist is invariably explained, if not justified, by the
iniquities of the Coalition Government.]

  I hold no brief for LENIN
    Or TROTSKY or their breed;
  Their way of doing men in
    Is foreign to my creed;
  But, since to me LLOYD GEORGE is
    A source of deeper dread,
  For Bolshevistic orgies
    A great deal may be said.

  I hold a brief for no land
    That tramples on its kin;
  My heart once bled for Poland
    And groaned for Russia's sin;
  But, if to clear the tangle
    WINSTON is given his head,
  I feel that General WRANGEL
    Were better downed and dead.

  I hold no brief--I swear it--
    For militant Sinn Fein;
  I really cannot bear it
    When constables are slain;
  But if you mention CARSON
    I feel that for the spread
  Of murder and of arson
    A good deal can be said.

  I hold no brief for SMILLIE
    Or for the miners' claims;
  I disapprove most highly
    Of many of their aims;
  But when I see the Wizard
    Enthroned in ASQUITH'S stead,
  It cuts me to the gizzard
    And dyes my vision Red.

  I hold no brief for madmen
    On revolution bent,
  For bitter or for bad men
    On anarchy intent;
  But sooner far than "stop" them
    With Coalition lead,
  To foster and to prop them
    I'd leave no word unsaid.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Our Decadent Poets.=

Extract from an Indian's petition:--

    "... to look after my old father, who leads sickly life, and is
    going from bad to verse every day."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "So far from Mr. Kameneff having had nothing to do with any
    realisation of jewels, he ... took plains to report it to his
    Government."--Daily Paper.

In fact, he took the necessary steppes.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A privately owned aeroplane, flying from London to the Isle of
    Wight, descended in a field near Carnforth, seven miles north of
    Morecambe Bay. The propeller was broken, but the occupants, a lady
    and a gentleman, escaped with a shaking."--Daily Paper.

The real shock came when they found out where they were.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HANDY MAN.

The men I most admire at the present time, though I take care not to tell them so to their
faces, are the men who can do everything. By this I don't mean people of huge intellectual
attainments, like Cabinet Ministers, or tremendous physical powers, like Tarzan of the Apes.
It must be very nice to be able to have a heart-to-heart talk with KRASSIN or to write articles
for the Sunday picture-papers, and very nice also to swing rapidly through the tree-tops, say,
in Eaton Square; but none of these gifts is much help when the door-handle comes off. I hate
that sort of thing to happen in a house.

In the Victorian age, of course, which was one of specialisation based upon peace and plenty,
one simply sent for a door-handle replacer and he put it right. But nowadays the Door-handle
Replacers' Union is probably affiliated to an amalgamation which is discussing sympathetic
action with somebody who is striking, so nothing is done. This means that for weeks and weeks,
whenever one tries to go out of the room, there is a loud crash like a 9.2 on the further side
and a large blunt dagger clutched melodramatically in the right hand, and nobody to murder with it.

The man who can do everything is the kind of man who can mend a thing like a broken door-handle
as soon as look at it. He always knows which of the funny things you push or pull on any kind
of machine to make it go or stop, and what is wrong with the cistern and the drawing-room clock.

Such a man came into my house the other day. I call it my house, but it really seems to belong
to a number of large people who walk in and out and shift packing-cases and splash paint and
tramp heavily into the bathroom about 8.30 A.M. when I am trying to get off to sleep. They
have also dug a large moat right through the lawn and the garden-path, which rather spoils
the appearance of these places, though it is nice to be able to pull up the drawbridge at night
and feel that one is safe from burglars. Anyhow, whether it is my house or theirs, the fact
remains that the electric-bells were wrong. The man of whom I am speaking lives next-door,
and he came in and pointed this out. "It is not much use having electric-bells," he said, "that
don't ring."

I might have argued this point. I might have said that to press the button of a bell that does
not ring gives one time to reflect on whether one really wants the thing one rang for, and
thereafter on the whole vanity of human wishes, and so inculcates patience and self-discipline.
It is quite possible that an Eastern yogi might spend many years of beneficial calm pressing
the buttons of bells that do not ring. But I replied rather weakly, "No, I suppose not."

"I'll soon put that right for you," he said cheerily, and about five minutes later he asked
me to press one of the buttons, and there was a loud tinkling noise. It seemed a pity that
at the moment when the bell did happen to ring there should be nobody to come and answer it.

"Whatever did you do to them?" I asked.

