  "The sky's spitting fire,"
    Cried Sandy--"and see!
  Green Criffel reels round,
    And will choke up the sea;
  From their bottles of tempest
    The fiends draw the corks,
  Wide Solway is barmy,
    Like ale when it works;
  There sits Satan's daughter,
    Who works this dread darg,
  To mar my blythe bridal"
    Quoth young Sandy Harg.

  From his bosom a spell
    To work wonders he took,
  Thrice kiss'd it and smiled,
    Then triumphantly shook
  The boat by the rudder,
    The maid by the hair,
  With wailings and shrieks
    She bewilder'd the air;
  He flung her far seaward,
    Then sailed off to Larg--
  There was mirth at the bridal
    Of young Sandy Harg.

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEGEND CONCERNING THE PRESERVATION OF THE WELSH PEDIGREES PREVIOUS TO THE FLOOD.

(For the Mirror.)

A figure was seen, standing on a precipice as the waters of the flood were rising, which waved
its hand repeatedly--the waters rose and the figure disappeared. Noah, looking from the deck,
was shortly afterwards hailed by the same person amidst the roar of the elements, "Quite full!"
exclaimed the patriarch, as the ark lurched deeply. "Full!" exclaimed the voice, which was
now close alongside, "Ah! Morgan Jones, is that you?" "We are quite full."--"Then take care
of this packet; as for myself never mind, but take care of the packet." The packet was carefully
handed aboard, the eyes of Morgan Jones saw the patriarch receive it into his own hands, when
the huge ark gave a most terrific lurch, and hitting poor Morgan, he sunk under her counter,
was thumped by the keel, and was seen no more; but the packet was received, and proved to be
his pedigree from Adam!

W. PULLEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

LUDICROUS BLUNDERS.

(From "After Dinner Chat," in the New Monthly Magazine.)

H.--How completely a fine poetical thought may be destroyed by the alteration of a single word!
I recollect a ludicrous instance of this. I was quoting to M--d--y, who is rather deaf, a line
of Campbell's, as being, in my opinion, equal to any that ever was produced:

  "And Freedom shriek'd--as Kosciusko fell."

"I dare say you are right," replied M--d--y; "but it does not quite please me: I must think
of it." And he repeated--

  "And Freedom squeak'd--as Kosciusko fell."

K.--I once heard two whimsical blunders made in the course of a performance of Macbeth, at
a poor little country theatre. The Lady Macbeth--who, not unlikely, had been a laundress--instead
of saying merely

  "A little water clears us of this deed,"

chose to "make assurance double sure," and said--"A little soap and water." And, presently
after, for

  "We have scotch'd the snake, not killed it,"

the Thane, looking with an air of profound mystery at his tender mate, whispered her,

  "We have cotch a snake, and killed it."

       *       *       *       *       *

PARLIAMENT OF BATTS.

Gurdon, in his History of Parliament, says--"This parliament was summoned in the reign of Henry
the Sixth, to meet at Leicester; and orders were sent to the members that they should not wear
swords; so they came to parliament (like modern butchers) with long staves, from whence the
parliament got the name of The Parliament of Batts; and when the batts were prohibited, the
members had recourse to stones and leaden bullets. This parliament was opened with the Confirmation
of Liberties."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

WITENAGEMOTES.

"Alfred, with the advice and consent of his Witas, in Witenagemote, made his code of law that
was common to the whole nation, and enacted that a Witenagemote should be held twice a year,
and oftener if need were."--See Gurdon on Parliament.