No. 38.] SATURDAY, JULY 20, 1850 [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       *{113}

CONTENTS

NOTES:--
  Meaning of Delighted as used by Shakspeare, by S. Hickson
  Authors of "The Rolliad," by Lord Braybrooke
  Notes on Milton
  Derivation of Easter, by J. Sansom
  Folk Lore--Passages of Death, by Dr. Guest--Divination
    at Marriages
  Francis Lenton the Poet, by Dr. Rimbault
  Minor Notes:--Lilburn or Prynne--Peep of Day--Martinet--
    Guy's Porridge Pot
QUERIES:--
  Nicholas Ferrar of Little Gidding, by John Miland
  Stukeley's "Stonehenge," by Henry Cunliffe
  Athelstane's Form of Donation--Meaning of "Somagia,"
    by J. Sansom
  Minor Queries:--Charade--"Smoke Money"--"Rapido
    contrarius orbi"--Lord Richard Christophilus--
    Fiz gigs--Specimens of Erica in Bloom--Michael
    Scott the Wizard--Stone Chalices
REPLIES:--
  Ulrich von Hutten and the "Epistolæ Obscurorum
    Virorum," by S.W. Singer
  Caxton's Printing-office, by J.G. Nichols
  The New Temple
  Strangers in the House of Commons
  Replies to Minor Queries:--Morganatic Marriage--
    Umbrellas--Bands--Scarf--Jewish Music--North
    Sides of Churchyards unconsecrated--"Men are but
    Children" &c.--Ventriloquism--Cromwell's Estates
    --Magor--Vincent Gookin--All-to brake
MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, Sales, &c.
  Books and Odd Volumes Wanted
  Notices to Correspondents
  Advertisements

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.

WHAT IS THE MEANING OF "DELIGHTED," AS SOMETIMES USED BY SHAKSPEARE.

I wish to call attention to the peculiar use of a word, or rather to a peculiar word, in Shakspeare,
which I do not recollect to have met with in any other writer. I say a "peculiar word," because,
although the verb To delight is well known, and of general use, the word, the same in form,
to which I refer, is not only of different meaning, but, as I conceive, of distinct derivation
the non-recognition of which has led to a misconception of the meaning of one of the finest
passages in Shakspeare. Act iii. Sc. 1.

Now, if we examine the construction of this passage, we shall find that it appears to have
been the object of the writer to separate, and place in juxtaposition with each other, the
conditions of the body and the spirit, each being imagined under circumstances to excite repulsion
or terror in a sentient being. The mind sees the former lying in "cold obstruction," rotting,
changed from a "sensible warm motion" to a "kneaded clod," every circumstance leaving the impression
of dull, dead weight, deprived of force and motion.

To call the spirit here "delighted," in our sense of the term, would be absurd; and no explanation
of the passage in this sense, however ingenious, is intelligible. That it is intended to represent
the spirit simply as lightened, made light, relieved from the weight of matter, I am convinced,
and this is my view of the meaning of the word in the present instance.

Delight is naturally formed by the participle de and light, to make light, in the same way
as "debase," to make base, "defile," to make foul. The analogy is not quite so perfect in such
words as "define," "defile" (file), "deliver," "depart," &c.; yet they all may be considered
of the same class. The last of these is used with us only in the sense of to go away; in Shakspeare's
time (and Shakspeare so uses it) it meant also to part, or part with. A correspondent of Mr.
Knight's suggests {114} for the word delight in this passage, also, a new derivation; using
de as a negation, and light (lux), delighted, removed from the regions of light. This is impossible;
if we look at the context we shall see that it not only contemplated no such thing, but that
it is distinctly opposed to it.

I am less inclined to entertain any doubt of the view I have taken being correct, from the
confirmation it receives in another passage of Shakspeare, which runs as follows:

  "If virtue no delighted beauty lack,
  Your son-in-law shows far more fair than black."

Othello, Act i. Sc. 3.

Passing by the cool impertinence of one editor, who asserts that Shakspeare frequently used
the past for the present participle, and the almost equally cool correction of another, who
places the explanatory note "*delightful" at the bottom of the page, I will merely remark that
the two latest editors of Shakspeare, having apparently nothing to say on the subject, have
very wisely said nothing. Yet, as we understand the term "delighted," the passage surely needs
explanation. We cannot suppose that Shakspeare used epithets so weakening as "delighting" or
"delightful." The meaning of the passage would appear to be this: If virtue be not wanting
in beauty--such beauty as can belong to virtue, not physical, but of a higher kind, and freed
from all material elements--then your son-in-law, black though he is, shows far more fair than
black, possessing, in fact, this abstract kind of beauty to that degree that his colour is
forgotten. In short, "delighted" here seems to mean, lightened of all that is gross or unessential.

There is yet another instance in Cymbeline, which seems to bear a similar construction:

  "Whom best I love, I cross: to make my gifts
  The more delay'd, delighted."

Act v. Sc. 4.

That is, "the more delighted;" the longer held back, the better worth having; lightened of
whatever might detract from their value, that is, refined or purified. In making the remark
here, that "delighted" refers not to the recipient nor to the giver, but to the gifts, I pass
by the nonsense that the greatest master of the English language did not heed the distinction
between the past and the present participles, as not worth a second thought.

The word appears to have had a distinct value of its own, and is not to be explained by any
other single word. If this be so, it could hardly have been coined by Shakspeare. Though, possibly,
it may never have been much used, perhaps some of your correspondents may be able to furnish
other instances from other writers.

SAMUEL HICKSON.

St. John's Wood.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORS OF "THE ROLLIAD."

The subjoined list of the authors of The Rolliad, though less complete than I could have wished,
is, I believe, substantially correct, and may, therefore, be acceptable to your readers. The
names were transcribed by me from a copy of the ninth edition of The Rolliad (1791), still
in the library at Sunninghill Park, in which they had been recorded on the first page of the
respective papers.

There seems to be no doubt that they were originally communicated by Mr. George Ellis, who
has always been considered as one of the most talented contributors to The Rolliad. He also
resided for many years at Sunninghill, and was in habits of intimacy with the owners of the
Park. Your correspondent C. (Vol. ii., p. 43.) may remark that Lord John Townshend's name occurs
only twice in my list; but his Lordship may have written some of the papers which are not in
the Sunninghill volume, as they appeared only in the editions of the work printed subsequently
to 1791, and are designated as Political Miscellanies.

Names of the Authors of the Rolliad.

Dedication to Kenyon       Dr. Laurence.
Family of the Rollos       Tickell, &c.
Extract from Dedication    General Fitzpatrick.
Criticisms from the                            No.
Rolliad                  George Ellis        1 & 2.
----                       Dr. Laurence        3.
----                       Richardson          4.
----                       General Fitzpatrick 5.
----                       Dr. Laurence        6, 7, 8.
----                       General Fitzpatrick 9.
----                       Richardson          10 & 11.
----                       General Fitzpatrick 12.
Criticisms not in the
  original, but probably
  written by               Dr. Laurence        13 & 14.
Criticisms, &c. Part. ii.  George Ellis        1 & 2.
----                       Richardson          3 & 4.
----                       General Fitzpatrick 5.
Criticisms, not in the
original                   Mr. Reid            6.
----                       Dr. Laurence        7.

Political Eclogues.

Rose                       Dr. Laurence. The Liars                  General Fitzpatrick. Margaret
Nicholson         Mr. Adair. Charles Jenkinson          George Ellis. Jekyl               
Lord John Townshend.

Probationary Odes.

All the Preliminaries      Mr. Tickell.
Irregular Ode              Mr. Tickell         No. 1.
Ode to the New Year        George Ellis        2.
Ode                        Rev. H. Bate Dudley 3.
----                       Richardson          4.
Duan                       John Ellis          5. {115}
Ossianade                  Unknown             6.
Irregular Ode              Unknown             7.
Ode to the Attorney-
  General                  Mr. Brummell        8.
Laureate Ode               Mr. Tickell         9.
New Year's Ode             Mr. Pearce          10.
Ode by M.A. Taylor         Mr. Boscawen        11.
---- by Major Scott        Lord John Towns-
                           hend                12.
---- Irregular(Dundas)     Never known to the
                           Club                13.
---- by Warton             Bishop of Ossory
                           (Hon. William
                           Beresford)          14.
---- Pindaric              General Fitzpatrick 15.
---- Irregular             Dr. Laurence        16.
---- Prettyman             General Burgoyne    17.
---- Graham                Mr. Reid            18.
Letter, &c. and Mount-
  morres                   Richardson          19.
Birthday Ode               George Ellis        20.
Pindaric Ode               Unmarked            21.
Real Birthday Ode          T. Warton           22.
Remaining prose            Richardson.

I am not certain whether Mr. Adair, to whom "Margaret Nicholson," one of the happiest of the
Political Eclogues, is attributed, is the present Sir Robert Adair. If so, as the only survivor
amongst his literary colleagues, he might furnish some interesting particulars respecting the
remarkable work to which I have called your attention.

BRAYBROOKE.

Audley End, July, 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON MILTON.

(Continued from Vol. ii., p. 53.)

Il Penseroso.

On l. 8 (G.):--

  "Fantastic swarms of dreams there hover'd,
  Green, red, and yellow, tawney, black, and blue;
  They make no noise, but right resemble may
  Th' unnumber'd moats that in the sun-beams play."

Sylvester's Du Bartas.

Cælia, in Beaumont and Fletcher's Humorous Lieutenant, says,--

  "My maidenhead to a mote in the sun, he's jealous."

Act iv. Sc. 8.

On l. 35. (G.) Mr. Warton might have found a happier illustration of his argument in Ben Jonson's
Every Man in his Humour, Act i. Sc. 3.:--

  "Too conceal such real ornaments as these, and shadow
  their glory, as a milliner's wife does her wrought
  stomacher, with a smoaky lawn, or a black cyprus."

--Whalley's edit. vol. i. p. 33.

On l. 39. (G.) The origin of this uncommon use of the word "commerce" is from Donne:--

  "If this commerce 'twixt heaven and earth were not
  embarred."

--Poems, p. 249. Ed. 4to. 1633.

On l. 43. (G.):--

  "That sallow-faced, sad, stooping nymph, whose eye
  Still on the ground is fixed steadfastly."

Sylvester's Du Bartas

On l. 52. (G.):--

  "Mounted aloft on Contemplation's wings."

G. Wither, P. 1. vol. i. Ed. 1633.

Drummond has given "golden wings" to Fame.

On l. 88. (G.):--

  Hermes Trismegistus.

On l. 100. (G.):--

  "Tyrants' bloody gests
  Of Thebes, Mycenæ, or proud Ilion."

Sylvester's Du Bartas.

       *       *       *       *       *

Arcades.

On l. 23. (G.):--

  "And without respect of odds,
  Vye renown with Demy-gods."

Wither's Mistresse of Philarete, Sig. E. 5. Ed. 1633.

On l. 27. (G.):--

  "But yet, whate'er he do or can devise,
  Disguised glory shineth in his eyes."

Sylvester's Du Bartas.

On l. 46. (G.):--

  "An eastern wind commix'd with noisome airs,
  Shall blast the plants and the young sapplings."

Span. Trag. Old Plays, vol. iii. p. 222.

On l. 65. (G.) Compare Drunmond--speech of Endymion before Charles:--

  "To tell by me, their herald, coming things,
  And what each Fate to her stern distaff sings," &c.

On l. 84. (M.):--

  "And with his beams enamel'd every greene."

Fairfax's Tasso, b. i. st. 35.

On l. 97. (G.):--

  "Those brooks with lilies bravely deck't."

Drayton, 1447.

On l. 106. (G.):--

  "Pan entertains, this coming night,
  His paramour, the Syrinx bright."

Fletcher's Faithful Shepherdess, Act i.

J.F.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

DERIVATION OF EASTER.

Southey, in his Book of the Church, derives our word Easter from a Saxon source:--

    "The worship," he says, "of the goddess Eostre or Eastre,
    which may probably be traced to the Astarte of the Phoenicians,
    is retained among us in the word Easter; her annual festival
    having been superseded by that sacred day."

Should he not rather have given a British origin to the name of our Christian holy day? Southey
acknowledges that the "heathenism which the {116} Saxons introduced, bears no [very little?]
affinity either to that of the Britons or the Romans;" yet it is certain that the Britons worshipped
Baal and Ashtaroth, a relic of whose worship appears to be still retained in Cornwall to this
day. The Druids, as Southey tells us, "made the people pass through the fire in honour of Baal."
But the festival in honour of Baal appears to have been in the autumn: for

    "They made the people," he informs us, "at the beginning of
    winter, extinguish all their fires on one day and kindle them
    again from the sacred fire of the Druids, which would make the
    house fortunate for the ensuing year; and, if any man came who
    had not paid his yearly dues, [Easter offerings, &c., date back
    as far as this!] they refused to give him a spark, neither durst
    any of his neighbours relieve him, nor might he himself procure
    fire by any other means, so that he and his family were deprived
    of it till he had discharged the uttermost of his debt."

The Druidical fires kindled in the spring of the year, on the other hand, would appear to be
those in honour of Ashtaroth, or Astarte, from whom the British Christians may naturally enough
have derived the name of Easter for their corresponding season. We might go even further than
this, and say that the young ladies who are reported still to take the chief part in keeping
up the Druidical festivities in Cornwall, very happily represent the ancient Estal (or Vestal)
virgins.

    "In times of Paganism," says O'Halloran, "we find in Ireland
    females devoted to celibacy. There was in Tara a royal
    foundation of this kind, wherein none were admitted but virgins
    of the noblest blood. It was called Cluain-Feart, or the place
    of retirement till death," &c ... "The duty of these virgins was
    to keep up the fires of Bel, or the sun, and of Sambain, or the
    moon, which customs they borrowed from their Phoenician
    ancestors. They both [i.e. the Irish and the Phoenicians] adored
    Bel, or the sun, the moon, and the stars.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Presages of Death.--The Note by Mr. C. FORBES (Vol. ii., p. 84.) on "High Spirits considered
a Presage of impending Calamity or Death," reminded me of a collection of authorities I once
made, for academical purposes, of a somewhat analogous bearing,--I mean the ancient belief
in the existence of a power of prophecy at that period which immediately precedes dissolution.

Homer affords two instances of a similar kind: thus, Patroclus prophesies the death of Hector
(Il. [Greek: p] 852.)[1]:--

  [Greek: "Ou thaen oud autos daeron beae alla toi aedae
  Agchi parestaeke Thanatos kai Moira krataiae,
  Chersi dament Achilaeos amnmonos Aiakidao."][2]

Again, Hector in his turn prophesies the death of Achilles by the hand of Paris (Il. [Greek:
ch.] 358.):--

  [Greek: "Phrazeo nun, mae toi ti theon maenima genomai
  Aemati to ote ken se Pharis kai phoibus Apollon,
  Esthlon eont, olesosin eni Skaiaesi pulaesin."][3]

This was not merely a poetical fancy, or a superstitious faith of the ignorant, for we find
it laid down as a great physical truth by the greatest of the Greek philosophers, the divine
Socrates:--

    [Greek: "To de dae meta touto epithumo humin chraesmodaesai, o
    katapsaephisamenoi mou kai gar eimi aedae entautha en o malist
    anthropoi chraesmodousin hotan mellosin apothaneisthai."][4]

In Xenophon, also, the same idea is expressed, and, if possible, in language still more definite
and precise:--{117}

    [Greek: "Hae de tou anthropou psuchae tote daepou theiotatae
    kataphainetai, kai tote ti ton mellonton proora."][5]

Diodorus Siculus, again, has produced great authorities on this subject:--

    [Greek: "Puthagoras ho Samios, kai tines heteroi ton palaion
    phusikon, apephaenanto tas psuchas ton anthropon uparchein
    athanatous, akolouthos de to dogmati touto kai progignoskein
    autas ta mellonta, kath hon an kairon en tae teleutae ton apo
    tou somatos chorismon poiontai."][6]

From the ancient writers I yet wish to add one more authority; and I do so especially, because
the doctrine of the Stagirite is therein recorded. Sextus Empiricus writes,--

    [Greek: "Hae psuchae, phaesin Aristotelaes, promanteuetai kai
    proagoreuei ta mellonta--en to kata thanaton chorizesthai ton
    somaton."][7]

Without encroaching further upon the space of this periodical by multiplying evidence corroborative
of the same fact, I will content myself by drawing the attention of the reader to our own great
poet and philosopher, Shakspeare, whose subtle genius and intuitive knowledge of human nature
render his opinions on all such subjects of peculiar value. Thus in Richard II., Act ii. sc.
1., the dying Gaunt, alluding to his nephew, the young and self-willed king, exclaims,--

  "Methinks I am a prophet new inspired;
  And thus, expiring, do foretel of him."

Again, in Henry IV., Part I., Act v. sc. 4., the brave Percy, when in the agonies of death,
conveys the same idea in the following words:--

               "O, I could prophesy,
  But that the earthy and cold hand of death
  Lies on my tongue."

Reckoning, therefore, from the time of Jacob, this belief, whether with or without foundation,
has been maintained upwards of 3500 years. It was grounded on the assumed fact, that the soul
became divine in the same ratio as its connection with the body was loosened or destroyed.
In sleep, the unity is weakened but not ended: hence, in sleep, the material being dead, the
immaterial, or divine principle, wanders unguided, like a gentle breeze over the unconscious
strings of an Æolian harp; and according to the health or disease of the body are pleasing
visions or horrid phantoms (ægri somnia, as Horace) present to the mind of the sleeper. Before
death, the soul, or immaterial principle, is, as it were, on the confines of two worlds, and
may possess at the same moment a power which is both prospective and retrospective. At that
time its connection with the body being merely nominal, it partakes of that perfectly pure,
ethereal, and exalted nature (quod multo magis faciet post mortem quum omnino corpore excesserit)
which is designed for it hereafter.

As the question is an interesting one, I conclude by asking, through the medium of the "NOTES
AND QUERIES," if a belief in this power of prophesy before death be known to exist at the present
day?

AUGUSTUS GUEST.

London, July 8.

[Footnote 1: For the assistance of the general reader, I have introduced hasty translations
of the several passages quoted.]

[Footnote 2: (And I moreover tell you, and do you meditate well upon it, that) you yourself
are not destined to live long, for even now death is drawing nigh unto you, and a violent fate
awaits you,--about to be slain in fight by the hands of Achilles, the irreproachable son of Oacus.]

[Footnote 3: Consider now whether I may not be to you the cause of divine anger, in that day
when Paris and Phoebus Apollo shall slay you, albeit so mighty, at the Scaean gate.]

[Footnote 4: Wherefore I have an earnest desire to prophesy to you who have condemned me; for
I am already arrived at that stage of my existence in which, especially, men utter prophetic
sayings, that is, when they are about to die.]

[Footnote 5: That time, indeed, the soul of man appears to be in a manner divine, for to a
certain extent it foresees things which are about to happen.]

[Footnote 6: Pythagoras the Samian, and some others of the ancient philosophers, showed that
the souls of men were immortal, and that, when they were on the point of separating from the
body, they possessed a knowledge of futurity.]

[Footnote 7: The soul, says Aristotle, when on the point of taking its departure from the body,
foretells and prophesies things about to happen.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Divination at Marriages.--The following practices are very prevalent at marriages in these
districts; and as I do not find them noticed by Brand in the last edition of his Popular Antiquities,
they may perhaps be thought worthy a place in the "NOTES AND QUERIES."

1. Put a wedding ring into the posset, and after serving it out, the unmarried person whose
cup contains the ring will be the first of the company to be married.

2. Make a common flat cake of flour, water, currants, &c., and put therein a wedding ring and
a sixpence. When the company is about to retire on the wedding-day, the cake must be broken
and distributed amongst the unmarried females. She who gets the ring in her portion of the
cake will shortly be married, and the one who gets the sixpence will die an old maid.

T.T.W.

Burnley, July 9. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRANCIS LENTON THE POET.

In a MS. obituary of the seventeenth century, preserved at Staunton Hall, Leicestershire, I
found the following:--

    "May 12. 1642. This day died Francis Lenton, of Lincoln's Inn,
    Gent."

This entry undoubtedly relates to the author of three very rare poetical tracts: 1. The Young
Gallant's Whirligigg, 1629; 2. The Innes of Court, 1634; 3. Great Brittain's Beauties, 1638.
In the dedication to Sir Julius Cæsar, prefixed to the first-named work, the writer speaks
of having "once belonged to the Innes of Court," and says he was "no usuall poetizer, but,
to barre idlenesse, imployed that little talent the Muses conferr'd upon him in this little
tract." Sir Egerton Brydges supposed the copy of The Young Gallant's Whirligigg preserved in
the library of Sion College to be unique; but this is not the case, as the writer knows of
two others,--one at Staunton Hall, and another at Tixall Priory in Staffordshire. It has been
reprinted by Mr. {118} Halliwell at the end of a volume containing The Marriage of Wit and
Wisdom, published by the Shakspeare Society. In his prefatory remarks that gentleman says,

    "Besides his printed works, Lenton wrote the Poetical History
    of Queene Hester, with the translation of the 83rd Psalm,
    reflecting upon the present times. MS. dated 1649."

This date must be incorrect, if our entry in the Staunton obituary relates to the same person;
and there is every reason to suppose that it does. The autograph MS. of Lenton occurred in
Heber's sale (Part xi. No. 724.), and is thus described:

    Hadassiah, or the History of Queen Hester, sung in a sacred
    and serious poeme, and divided into ten chapters, by F. Lenton,
    the Queen's Majesties Poet, 1638.

This is undoubtedly the correct date, as it is in the handwriting of the author. Query. What
is the meaning of Lenton's title, "the Queen's Majesties Poet"?

Edward F. Rimbault.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Lilburn or Prynne?--I am anxious to suggest in "Notes and Queries" whether a character in the
Second Canto of Part iii. of Hudibras (line 421), beginning,

  "To match this saint, there was another,
  As busy and perverse a brother,
  An haberdasher of small wares,
  In politics and state affairs,"

Has not been wrongly given by Dr. Grey to Lilburn, and whether Prynne is not rather the person
described. Dr. Grey admits in his note that the application of the passage to Lilburn involves
an anachronism, Lilburn having died in 1657, and this passage being a description of one among

  "The quacks of government who sate"

to consult for the Restoration, when they saw ruin impending.

CH.

Peep of Day.--Jacob Grimm, in his Deutsche Mythologie, p. 428., ed. 1., remarks that the ideas
of light and sound are sometimes confounded; and in support of his observation he quotes passages
of Danish and German poets in which the sun and moon are said to pipe (pfeifen). In further
illustration of this usage, he also cites the words "the sun began to peep," from a Scotch
ballad in Scott's Border Minstrelsy, vol. ii. p. 430. In p. 431. he explains the words "par
son l'aube," which occur in old French poets, by "per sonitum auroræ;" and compares the English
expression, "the peep of day."

The Latin pipio or pipo, whence the Italian pipare, and the French pépier, is the ultimate
origin of the verb to peep; which, in old English, bore the sense of chirping, and is so used
in the authorised version of Isaiah, viii. 19., x. 14. Halliwell, in his Archaic Dictionary,
explains "peep" as "a flock of chickens," but cites no example. To peep, however, in the sense
of taking a rapid look at anything through a small aperture, is an old use of the word, as
is proved by the expression Peeping Tom of Coventry. As so used, it corresponds with the German
gucken. Mr. Richardson remarks that this meaning was probably suggested by the young chick
looking out of the half-broken shell. It is quite certain that the "peep of day" has nothing
to do with sound; but expresses the first appearance of the sun, as he just looks over the
eastern hills.

L.

Martinet.--Will the following passage throw any light on the origin of the word Martinet?

    Une discipline, devenue encore plus exacte, avait mis dans
    l'armée un nouvel ordre. Il n'y avait point encore d'inspecteurs
    de cavalerie et d'infanterie, comme nous en avons vu depuis,
    mais deux hommes uniques chacun dans leur genre en fesaient les
    fonctions. Martinet mettait alors l'infanterie sur le pied de
    discipline où elle est aujourd'hui. Le Chevalier de Fourilles
    fesait la même change dans la cavalerie. Il y avait un an que
    Martinet avait mis la baionnette en usage dans quelque
    régimens, &c.--Voltaire, Siècle de Louis XIV. c. 10.

C. Forbes.

July 2.

Guy's Porridge Pot.--In the porter's lodge at Warwick Castle are preserved some enormous pieces
of armour, which, according to tradition, were worn by the famous champion "Guy, Earl of Warwick;"
and in addition (with other marvellous curiosities) is also exhibited Guy's porridge pot, of
bell metal, said to weigh 300 lbs., and to contain 120 gallons. There is also a flesh-fork
to ring it.

Mr. Nichols, in his History of Leicestershire, Part ii. vol. iii., remarks,

    "A turnpike road from Ashby to Whitwick, passes through Talbot
    Lane. Of this lane and the famous large pot at Warwick Castle,
    we have an old traditionary couplet:

      "'There's nothing left of Talbot's name,
      But Talbot's Pot and Talbot's Lane.'

    "Richard Beauchamp Earl of Warwick, died in 1439. His eldest
    daughter, Margaret, was married to John Talbot Earl of
    Shrewsbury, by whom she had one son, John Viscount Lisle, from
    whom the Dudleys descended, Viscount Lisle and Earl of Warwick."

It would therefore appear that neither the armour nor the pot belonged to the "noble Guy"--the
armour being comparatively of modern manufacture, and the pot, it appears, descended from the
Talbots to the Warwick family: which pot is generally filled with punch on the birth of a male
heir to that noble family.

W. Reader.

       *       *       *       *       *{119}

QUERIES.

NICHOLAS FERRAR OF LITTLE GIDDING.

Dr. Peckard, in his Preface to the Life of Nicholas Ferrar of Little Gidding, says the memoir
he published was edited or compiled by him from "the original MS. still in my possession" (p.
xi.); and in the Appendix adds, that "Mr. John Ferrar," the elder brother of Nicholas, was
the author of it (p. 279.).

How he compiled or edited "the original MS." he states with much candour in his Preface (p. xv.):

    "The editor's intention," in altering the narrative, "was to
    give what is not observed in the original, a regular series of
    facts; and through the whole a sort of evenness and simplicity
    of stile equally free from meanness and affectation. In short,
    to make the old and the new, as far as he could, uniform; that
    he might not appear to have sewed a piece of new cloth to an old
    garment, and made its condition worse by his endeavours to mend
    it."

Again, at page 308., he says,

    "There is an antient MS. in folio, giving an account of Mr. N.
    Ferrar, which at length, from Gidding, came into the hands of
    Mr. Ed. Ferrar of Huntingdon, and is now in the possession of
    the editor. Mr. Peck had the use of this MS. as appears by
    several marginal notes in his handwriting; from this and some
    loose and unconnected papers of Mr. Peck.... the editor, as well
    as he was able, has made out the foregoing memoirs."

Can any of your numerous correspondents inform me if this "antient MS." is still in existence,
and in whose possession?

Peckard was related to the Ferrars, and was Master of Magdalen Coll., Cambridge.

In "A Catalogue of MSS. (once) at Gidding," Peckard, p. 306., the third article is "Lives,
Characters, Histories, and Tales for moral and religious Instruction, in five volumes folio,
neatly bound and gilt, by Mary Collet." This work, with five others, "undoubtedly were all
written by N. Ferrar, Sen.," says Dr. Peckard; and in the Memoir, at page 191., he gives a
list of these "short histories," ninety-eight in number, "which are still remaining in my possession;"
and adds further, at p. 194.,

    "These lives, characters, and moral essays would, I think, fill
    two or three volumes in 8vo., but they are written in so
    minute a character, that I cannot form any conjecture to be
    depended upon."

