    "A damaged Zeppelin was observed to descend in the Thames
    Estuary, and it surrendered on the approach of patrol goat."

    The Journal (Calcutta).

This incident is believed to be unique, but German submarines have no doubt before now been
accounted for by our naval rams.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "We give these things long words. We talk of the 'triumph of
    organisation.' Is it not simpler to say--that when a man knows
    exactly what he wants done, exactly how every part of it should
    be done, and can pick a man for each task, and apportion his
    requirements to what is possible; and then, by far the most
    important thing of all, can so deal with the many under his
    command that each is most furiously anxious to do what the
    leader wants--why then, things go right."--Westminster
    Gazette.

The answer is in the negative.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "There is much matter for thinking over in the observations of
    this 'Student' who was at Sandhurst twelve years ago, and at
    Oxford later on, and seems to have got the best out of both
    forms of training--the unhasting and unresting labour of 'the
    Shop,' which aims only at making competent gunners and sappers,
    and the easy-going round of University life which enlarges one's
    sympathy and stimulates the imagination."--Morning Paper.

Judging by his description of Sandhurst we think that the writer of the above extract must
also have been at Oxford, where the imagination gets stimulated.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT NEUTRAL.

I am the Neutral Journalist who wanders round Europe. I am absolutely impartial. I am absolutely
trustworthy. My perfect integrity is vouched for at the head of all my articles. Pleasant it
is to come over to London, sell one set of articles to the Boom Press and another to the Gloom
Press, and then sit down with smiling face and begin an article for Germany: "I sit in a hovel
amongst the ruins of Fleet Street, with the wreck of the armoured fort of St. Paul's in view.
I hear a stir outside. A wild mob of conscientious objectors is beating a recruiting officer
to death. Such things happen hourly in defeated Albion." My series of London, Liverpool, Manchester
and Birmingham--all in ashes--has proved so successful that I propose to cover all the large
towns and construct a Baedeker of ruins.

Yet I pride myself more on my work for England's Press. My German articles have all to be in
the same vein. Only the Boom Press exists in Germany. But in England one can vary one's view
and do artistic work. You must have read my story of the struggle for the last sausage in a
Frankfort butcher's shop--how the troops intervened and the crowd attacked them, and how ultimately
1,400 civilians were mown down with machine guns--and the sausage was eaten by the General
Officer commanding the Army Corps that suppressed the rising. You must also have seen my description
of the KAISER--his white hair, bent shoulders, deathlike look as he passed, protected by his
Guards from the wild fury of the Berlin mob. Of course I have another KAISER, the bright smiling
man whose youth seems to have been renewed by the War, who waves his hand to the madly enthusiastic
crowds waiting round the Palace for a glimpse of their divinity.

