"A strong proof of intellect was given in the case of Colonel O'Kelly's parrot. When the colonel
and his parrot were at Brighton, the bird was asked to sing; he answered 'I can't,' Another
time he left off in the middle of a tune, and said, 'I have forgot.' Colonel O'Kelly continued
the tune for a few notes; the parrot took it up where the Colonel had left off. The parrot
took up the bottom of a lady's petticoat, and said 'What a pretty foot!' The parrot seeing
the family at breakfast said, 'Won't you give some breakfast to Poll?' The company teazed and
mopped him a good deal; he said 'I don't like it.'--(From a Memorandum found amongst the late
Earl of Guildford's Papers.)"

Eels.

Several pages are devoted to the economy of these curious creatures, and as many points of
their history are warmly contested, Mr. Jesse's experience is valuable.

"That they do wander[6] from one place to another is evident, as I am assured that they have
been found in ponds in Richmond Park, which had been previously cleaned out and mudded, and
into which no water could run except from the springs which supplied it.[7] An annual migration
of young eels takes place in the River Thames in the month of May, and they have generally
made their appearance at Kingston, in their way upwards, about the second week in that month,
and accident has so determined it, that, for several years together it was remarked that the
10th of May was the day of what the fishermen call eel-fair; but they have been more irregular
in their proceedings since the interruption of the lock at Teddington. These young eels are
about two inches in length, and they make their approach in one regular and undeviating column
of about five inches in breadth, and as thick together as it is possible for them to be. As
the procession generally lasts two or three days, and as they appear to move at the rate of
nearly two miles and a half an hour, some idea may be formed of their enormous number.

    [6] From the following lines of Oppian, the rambling spirit of
        eels seems to have been known to the ancients--

                        The wandering eel,
        Oft to the neighbouring beach will silent steal"

    [7] I have been informed, upon the authority of a nobleman well
        known for his attachment to field sports, that, if an eel is
        found on land, its head is invariably turned towards the sea,
        for which it is always observed to make in the most direct line
        possible. If this information is correct (and there seems to be
        no reason to doubt it.) it shows that the eel, like the swallow,
        is possessed of a strong migratory instinct. May we not suppose
        that the swallow, like the eel, performs its migrations in the
        same undeviating course?

"Eels feed on almost all animal substances, whether dead or living. It is well known that they
devour the young of all water-fowl that are not too large for them. Mr. Bingley states, that
he saw exposed for sale at Retford, in Nottinghamshire, a quantity of eels that would have
filled a couple of wheelbarrows, the whole of which had been taken out of the body of a dead
horse, thrown into a ditch near one of the adjacent villages; and a friend of mine saw the
body of a man taken out of the Serpentine River in Hyde Park, where it had been some time,
and from which a large eel crawled out. The winter retreat of eels is very curious. They not
only get deep into the mud, but in Bushy Park, where the mud in the ponds is not very deep,
and what there is, is of a sandy nature, the eels make their way under the banks of the ponds,
and have been found knotted together in a large mass. Eels vary much in size in different waters.
The largest I ever caught was in Richmond Park, and it weighed five pounds, but some are stated
to have been caught in Ireland which weighed from fifteen to twenty pounds. Seven pounds is,
I believe, no unusual size. The large ones are extremely strong and muscular. Fishing one day
at Pain's Hill, near Cobham, in Surrey, I hooked an eel amongst some weeds, but before I could
land him, he had so twisted a new strong double wire, to which the hook was fixed, that he
broke it and made his escape."

Sir Humphry Davy's opinions respecting eels are quoted from his Salmonia:[8] Mr. Jesse adds:

    [8] See MIRROR, vol. xii. p. 253.

"It is with considerable diffidence that one would venture to differ in opinion with Sir Humphry
Davy, but I cannot help remarking, that, as eels are now known to migrate from fresh water,
as was shown in the case of the Richmond Park ponds, this restless propensity may arise from
their impatience of the greater degree of warmth in those ponds in the month of May, and not
from their wish to get into water still warmer, as suggested by Sir Humphry Davy. Very large
eels are certainly found in rivers, the Thames and Mole for instance, where I have seen them
so that they must either have remained in them, or have returned from the sea, which Sir H.
Davy thinks they never do, though I should add, that the circumstance already related of so
many large eels being seen dead or dying during a hot summer, near the Nore, would appear to
confirm his assertion. If eels are oviparous, as Sir Humphry Davy thinks they are, would not
the ova have been found, especially in the conger,--many of which are taken and brought to
our markets, frequently of a very large size? It does not appear, however, that any of the
fringes along the air-bladder have ever arrived at such a size and appearance as to have justified
any one in the supposition that they were ovaria, though, as has been stated, distinguished
naturalists, from the time of Aristotle to the present moment, have been endeavouring to ascertain
this fact. Since the above was written, I have been shown ova in the lamprey, and what appeared
to have been melt taken from a conger eel, at a fishmonger's in Bond-street. These specimens
were preserved by Mr. Yarrell, of Little Ryder-street, St. James's, who had the kindness to
open two eels, sent to him from Scotland, in my presence, and in which the fringes were very
perceptible, though they were without any ova. That ingenious and indefatigable naturalist
is, however, of opinion that eels are oviparous, though he failed in producing proof that the
common eels were so.

"In further proof, however, of eels being viviparous, it may be added (if the argument of analogy
applies in this case), that the animalculæ of paste eels are decidedly viviparous. Mr. Bingley
also, in his animal biography, says that eels are viviparous. Blumenbach says, too, that 'according
to the most correct observations they are certainly viviparous.' He adds also, that, the eel
is so tenacious of life, that its heart, when removed from the body, retains its irritability
for forty hours afterwards."

We are not inclined to attach very considerable importance to Mr. Bingley's experience, much
as we admire his entertaining Animal Biography: we believe him to be classed among book-naturalists,
and he wrote this work many years since.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

QUEEN ANNE'S SPRING, NEAR ETON.

(From a Correspondent.)

The accompanying sketch represents a sequestered spot of sylvan shade whence rises a Spring
which tradition designates Queen Anne's. Here the limpid crystal flows in gentle, yet ceaseless
streams, conveying "Health to the sick and solace to the swain."

It has some claims to antiquity; and its merits have been appreciated by royalty. Queen Anne
was the first august personage who had recourse to it; in later times, Queen Charlotte for
many years had the pure element conveyed to her royal abode at Windsor, and in 1785, a stone,
with a cipher and date, was placed there by her illustrious consort, George III. This spring
is situate at Chalvey, (a village between Eton and Salt Hill,) on the property of J. Mason,
Esq., Cippenham. It was the observation of the esteemed and celebrated Dr. Heberdeen, that
it but required a physician to write a treatise on the water, to render it as efficacious as
Malvern.

URANIA.

       *       *       *       *       *

Spirit Of The Public Journals.

       *       *       *       *       *

STATE OF MAGIC IN EGYPT, BY AN EYE-WITNESS.

At the Consul General's table, in Egypt, in August, 1822, the conversation turned on the belief
in magic; and the Consul's Italian Staff propounded the following story, which seemed to have
perfect possession of their best belief. They said that a magician of great name was then in
Cairo--I think a Mogrebine; and that he had been sent for to the Consul's house, and put to
the following proof:--A silver spoon had been lost, and he was invited to point out the thief.
On arriving, he sent for an Arab boy at hazard out of the street, and after various ceremonies,
poured ink into the boy's hand, into which the boy was to look. It was stated, that he asked
the boy what he saw, and the boy answered, "I see a little man,"--Tell him to bring a flag,--"Now
he has brought a flag."--Tell him to bring another.--"Now he has brought another."--Tell him
to bring a third,--"Now he has brought it."--Tell him to bring a fourth.--"He has brought it."--Tell
him to bring the captain of them all.--"I see a great Sheik on horseback."--Tell him to bring
the man that stole the spoon.--"Now he has brought him."--What is he like?--"He is a Frangi,
poor-looking and mesquin." After which followed other points of personal description not remembered;
but which drew from the Staff the observation, that a European of exactly those qualities had
been about the house. We expressed our desire to be introduced to the magician, and the Consul
gravely intimated it might hurt the prejudices of his wife, as being a Catholic; to the great
mirth of the beautiful Consuless when she was told of it, who, though a Catholic and an Italian,
declared she was the only person in the family that set all the magicians in Egypt at defiance.

