  Our firsts in cow, but not in kitten.
  Our seconds in coat, but not in mitten.
  Our thirds in sword, but not in knife.
  Our fourths in horn, but not in fife.
  Our fifths in wire, but not in thread.
  Our sixths in ran, but not in sped.
  Our sevenths in gallant, not in brave.
  Our eighths in tunnel, not in cave.
  Our ninths in oil, but not in water.
  Our tenths in son, but not in daughter.
  And if you join these letters well,
  You'll find two warriors' names they spell.

  SADIE.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 4.

GEOGRAPHICAL DROP-LETTER PUZZLES.

1. Aa, a city in Burmah. Ofh, a city in Turkey. Jda, a city in Arabia. Ra, a city in Arabia.
ei, a city in China. ua, a city in Hindostan. Os, a city in the Russian Empire.

  GRACE.

2. Eee, a city in England. Aaaa, one of the United States. aaa, a river in South America. aaa,
a city in South America. aaa, an isthmus.

  BOLUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO PUZZLES IN NO. 45.

No. 1.

William the Conqueror.

No. 2.

      O
    I C E
  O C E A N
    E A T
      N

      S
    O W L
  S W E E T
    L E T
      T

No. 3.

  C R A V E
  R E D A N
  A D A P T
  V A P O R
  E N T R Y

  R I N K
  I D E A
  N E A T
  K A T E

No. 4.

Pilgrim's Progress.

About 200 Designs. From 15 cts. to 50 cts. per Set.

EDWARD STERN & CO., Philadelphia.

No boy can be thoroughly happy who is not the owner of a bicycle. The art of riding is easily
acquired, and, once learned, is never forgotten. A horse cannot compare with the bicycle for
speed and endurance. The sport is very fascinating, and the exercise is recommended by physicians
as a great promoter of health.

HOW TO CUT A FIVE-POINTED STAR

Take a sheet of paper cut square, and fold it as shown by Fig. 1. Make three divisions at one
end with a pencil; fold the paper so that the corner lettered b will be at a, as shown in Fig.
2. Then turn the corner lettered C so that it will be at D, as shown in Fig. 3. Then fold the
paper so that the corner lettered B and the corner lettered a will be together, and the edges
perfectly even, as shown in Fig. 4. Now divide the space between e and f into three parts,
and with one straight cut with the scissors from the division lettered g to the corner lettered
B and a, of Fig. 4, you have Betsey Griscom's five-pointed star.

  GEORGE M. FINCKEL.

The following contributors have also sent in specimens of the five-pointed star so folded as
to be cut with one straight clip of the scissors: Emma Schaffer, Samuel H. Lane, W. A. S.,
Sidney Abenheim, Clyde A. Heller, Pauline Mackay.

OBLIGED TO REFUSE.

BY MADGE ELLIOT.

  An agile Gibbon, swinging from
    The top branch of a tree,
  Her brown-faced baby in her arms,
    A humming-bird did see
  (Upon a lower bough he sat)
    Of Puff-leg family.
  "Oh dear!" she cried, "I wish you'd give
    One of your puffs to me;
  I hear that they are always used
    In white society.
  And though I have no powder, yet
    A pleasure it would be
  To dab my face and arms with it,
    Like dames of high degree.
  And then I'm sure my darling pet
    Would greatly like it too;
  She is the loveliest of babes--"
    "That, ma'am, is very true,"
  The humming-bird made haste to say;
    "She much resembles you.
  But that small gift you ask is not
    Like stocking nor like shoe:
  It won't come off, for it, my friend,
    Grew with me as I grew.
  And so I fear I must refuse
    The puff you sweetly beg.
  Could I spare it? Why, really, now,
    I couldn't spare my leg."

       *       *       *       *       *

=An Odd Combination.=--The year 1881 will be a mathematical curiosity. From left to right and
from right to left it reads the same; 18 divided by 2 gives 9 as a quotient; 81 divided by
9 gives 9; if divided by 9, the quotient contains a 9; if multiplied by 9, the product contains
two 9's; 1 and 8 are 9; 8 and 1 are 9. If the 18 be placed under the 81 and added, the sum
is 99. If the figures be added thus, 1, 8, 8, 1, it will give 18. Reading from left to right
it is 18, and reading from right to left it is 18, and 18 is two-ninths of 81. By adding, dividing,
and multiplying, nineteen 9's are produced, being one 9 for each year required to complete
the century.