Wages are much lower in Germany than here. Some years ago you could get a good cook for from
£7 to £12, but those days are past. Now you hear of a general servant getting from £10 to £12,
and a good plain cook from £15 upwards. These are servants who would get from £22 to £30 in
England, and more in America. But the wages of German servants are supplemented at Christmas
by a system of tips and presents that has in course of time become extortionate. Germans groan
under it, but every nation knows how hard it is to depart from one of these traditional indefinite
customs. The system is hateful, because it is neither one of free gift nor of business-like
payment, but hovers somewhere between and gives rise to much friction and discontent. In a
household account book that a friend allowed me to see I found the following entry. "Christmas
present for the servant. 30 marks in money. Bed linen, 9.50. Pincushion, 1.5. Five small presents.
In all 42 marks. Was not contented." This was a general servant in a family of two occupying
a good social position, but living as so many Germans do on a small income. But then the servant's
wages for doing the work of a large well-furnished, well-kept flat was £14, and these same
friends told me that servants now expect to get a quarter of their wages in money and presents
at Christmas. A German servant gets a great deal more help from her mistress, and is more directly
under her superintendence, than she would be in a household of the same social standing in
this country. I have heard an English lady say that when she had asked people to dinner she
made it a rule to go out all day, because if she did not her servants worried her with questions
about extra silver and other tiresome details. All the notable housewives in England will say
that this lady was a "freak," and must not be held up to the world as an English type. But
I think there is something of her spirit in many Englishwomen. They engage their servants to
do certain work, and hold them responsible. The German holds herself responsible for every
event and every corner in her husband's house, and she never for a moment closes her eyes and
lets go the reins. The servants are used to working hand in hand with the ladies of the household,
and do not regard the kitchen as a department belonging exclusively to themselves after an
early hour in the morning.

"Why did you leave your last place?" you say to an English cook applying for yours.

"Because the lady was always in the kitchen," she replies quite soberly and civilly. "I don't
like to see ladies in my kitchen at all hours of the day. It is impossible to get on with the
work."

But in Germany the kitchen is not the cook's kitchen. It belongs to the people who maintain
it, and they enter it when they please. It is always so spick and span that you sigh as you
see it, because you think of your own kitchen at home with its black pans and unpleasant looking
sink. There are no black pans in a German kitchen; you never see any grease, and you never
by any chance see a teacloth or a duster with a hole in it. An English kitchen in a small household
is furnished with more regard to the comfort of the servants than a German one, and with less
concern for the work to be done there. We supply comfortable chairs, a coloured table-cloth,
oil-cloth, books, hearth-rug, pictures, cushions, inkstand, and a roaring fire. The German
kitchen lacks all these things. It does not look as if the women who live in it ever expected
to pursue their own business, or rest for an hour in an easy chair. But the shining brightness
of it rejoices you,--every vessel is of wood, earthenware, enamel, or highly polished metal,
and every one of them is scrupulously clean. The groceries and pudding stuffs are kept in fascinating
jars and barrels, like those that come to children at Christmas in toy kitchens made in Germany.
The stove is a clean, low hot table at which you can stand all day without getting black and
greasy. In this sensible spotless workshop a German servant expects to be busy from morning
till night. Neither for herself nor for her fellow-servants will she ever set a table for a
tidy kitchen meal. She eats anywhere and anywhen, as the fancy takes her and the exigencies
of the day permit. Her morning meal will consist of coffee and rye bread without butter. In
the middle of the morning she will have a second breakfast, rye bread again with cheese or
sausage. In a liberal household she will dine as the family dines; in a stingy one she will
fare worse than they. In an old-fashioned household her portion will be carved for her in the
dining-room, because the joint will not return to the kitchen when the family has done with
it, but be placed straightway in the Speiseschrank under lock and key. In the afternoon she
will have bread and coffee again, and for supper as a rule what the family has, sausage or
ham or some dish made with eggs. One friend who goes out so much with her husband that they
are rarely at home to supper, told me that she made her servant a monthly allowance to buy
what she liked for supper. German servants are allowed coffee and either beer or wine, but
they are never given tea. Except for the scarcity of butter in middle-class households, they
live very well.

They go out on errands and to market a great deal, but they do not go out as much for themselves
as our servants do. A few hours every other Sunday still contents them in most places. Their
favourite amusement is the cheap public ball, and the careful German householder is actually
in the habit of trusting the key of the flat to his maid-of-all-work, and allowing her to return
at any hour of the night she pleases. This at any rate is the custom in Berlin and some other
large German towns, and the evil results of such a system are manifold. Over and over again
burglaries have been traced to it. One beguiling man engages your maid to dance and sup with
him, while his confederate gets hold of her key and comfortably rifles your rooms. On the girls
themselves these entertainments are said to have the worst possible influence, and most sensible
Germans would put a stop to them if they could.

You must not expect in Germany to have hot water brought to you at regular intervals as you
do in every orderly English household. The Germans have a curious notion that English life
is quite uniform, and all English people exactly alike. One man, a notably wise man too, said
to me that if he knew one English family he knew ten thousand. Another German told me that
this account of German life would be impossible to write, because one part of Germany differed
from the other part; but that a German could easily write the same kind of book about England,
because from Land's End to John o' Groats we were so many peas in a pod. To us who live in
England and know the differences between the Cornish and the Yorkshire people, for instance,
or the Welsh and the East Anglians, this seems sheer nonsense. I have tried to understand how
Germans arrive at it, and I believe it is by way of our cans of hot water brought at regular
intervals every day in the year in every British household. I remember that their machine-like
precision impressed M. Taine when he was in England, and certainly miss them sadly while we
are abroad. Gretchen brings you no hot water unless you ask for it; but she will brush your
clothes as a matter of course, though she does all the work of the household. She will, however,
be hurt and surprised if you do not press a small coin into her hand at the end of each week,
and one or two big ones at parting. One friend told me that when she stayed with her family
at a German hotel her German relatives told her she should give the chambermaid a tip that
was equal to 20 pf. for each pair of boots cleaned during their stay. It seems an odd way of
reckoning, because the chambermaid does not clean boots. However, the tip came to £3, which
seems a good deal and helps to explain the ease with which German servants save enough for
their marriage outfit on small wages. It is usual also to tip the servant where you have supped
or dined. Your opportunity probably comes when she precedes you down the unlighted stairs with
a lantern or a candle to the house door. But you need not be at all delicate about your opportunity.
You see the other guests make little offerings, and you can only feel that the money has been
well earned when you have eaten the elaborate meal she has helped to cook, and has afterwards
served to you.

Domestic servants come under the law in Germany that obliges all persons below a certain income
to provide for their old age. The Post Office issues cards and 20 pf. stamps, and one of these
stamps must be dated and affixed to the card every Monday. Sometimes the employers buy the
cards and stamps, and show them at the Post Office once a month; sometimes they expect the
servant to pay half the money required. Women who go out by the day to different families get
their stamps at the house they work in on Mondays. If a girl marries she may cease to insure,
and may have a sum of money towards her outfit. In that case she will receive no Old Age Pension.
But if she goes on with her insurance she will have from 15 to 20 marks a month from the State
after the age of 70. In cases of illness, employers are legally bound to provide for their
domestic servants during the term of notice agreed on. At least this is so in Prussia, and
the term varies from a fortnight to three months. In some parts of Germany servants are still
engaged by the quarter, but in Berlin it has become unusual of late years. The obligation to
provide for illness is often a heavy tax on employers, especially in cases when the illness
has not been caused by the work or the circumstances of the situation, but by the servant's
own carelessness and folly. Most householders in Berlin subscribe 7.50 a year to an insurance
company, a private undertaking that provides medical help, and when necessary sends the invalided
servant to a hospital and maintains her there. It even pays for any special food or wine ordered
by its own doctor.

One cause of ill health amongst German servants must often be the abominable sleeping accommodation
provided for them in old-fashioned houses. It is said that rooms without windows opening to
the air are no longer allowed in Germany, and there may be a police regulation against them.
Even this cannot have been issued everywhere, for not long ago I had a large well furnished
room of this kind offered me in a crowded hotel. It had windows, but they opened on to a narrow
corridor. The proprietor was quite surprised when I said I would rather have a room at the
top of the house with a window facing the street. I know a young lady acting as Stütze der
Hausfrau who slept in a cupboard for years, the only light and air reaching her coming from
a slit of glass over the door. I remember the consumptive looking daughter of a prosperous
tradesman showing us some rooms her father wished to let, and suggesting that a cupboard off
a sitting-room would make a pleasant study. She said she slept in one just like it on a higher
floor. Of course she called it a Kammer and not a cupboard, but that did not make it more inviting.
Over and over again I have known servants stowed away in holes that seemed fit for brooms and
brushes, but not for creatures with lungs and easily poisoned blood. This is one of the facts
of German life that makes comparison between England and Germany so difficult and bewildering.
Everyone knowing both countries is struck by the amount of State and police surveillance and
interference the Germans enjoy compared with us. I do not say "endure," because Germans would
not like it. Most of them approve of the rule they are used to, and they tell us we live in
a horrid go-as-you-please fashion with the worst results. I suppose we do. But I have never
known an English servant put to sleep in a cupboard, though I have heard complaints of damp
fireless rooms, especially in old historical palaces and houses. And I have never been offered
a room in a good English inn that had no windows to the open air. These windowless rooms may
be forbidden as bedrooms by the German police, but it would take a bigger earthquake than the
empire is likely to sustain to do away with those still in use.

CHAPTER XV

FOOD

Although the Germans as a nation are large eaters, they begin their day with the usual light
continental breakfast of coffee and rolls. In households where economy is practised it is still
customary to do without butter, or at any rate to provide it only for the master of the house
and for visitors. In addition to rolls and butter, you may, if you are a man or a guest, have
two small boiled eggs; but eggs in a German town are apt to remind you of the Viennese waiter
who assured a complaining customer that their eggs were all stamped with the day, month, and
year. Home-made plum jam made with very little sugar is often eaten instead of butter by the
women of the family; and the servants, where white rolls are regarded as a luxury, have rye
bread. No one need pity them on this account, however, as German rye bread is as good as bread
can be. Ordinary London household bread is poor stuff in comparison with it. The white rolls
and butter are always excellent too, and I would even say a good word for the coffee. To be
sure, Mark Twain makes fun of German coffee in the Tramp Abroad: says something about one chicory
berry being used to a barrel of water; but the poorest German coffee is better than the tepid
muddy mixture you get at all English railway stations, and at most English hotels and private
houses. Milk is nearly always poor in Germany, but whipped cream is often added to either coffee
or chocolate.

The precision that is so striking in the arrangement of German rooms is generally lacking altogether
in the serving of meals. The family does not assemble in the morning at a table laid as in
England with the same care for breakfast as it will be at night for dinner. It dribbles in
as it pleases, arrayed as it pleases, drinks a cup of coffee, eats a roll and departs about
its business. Formerly the women of the family always spent the morning in a loose gown, and
wore a cap over their undressed hair. This fashion, Germans inform you, is falling into desuetude;
but it falls slowly. Take an elderly German lady by surprise in the morning, and you will still
find her in what fashion journals call a negligé, and what plain folk call a wrapper. When
it is of shepherd's plaid or snuff-coloured wool it is not an attractive garment, and it is
always what the last generation but one, with their blunt tongues, called "slummocking." Most
German women are busy in the house all the morning, and when they are not going to market they
like to get through their work in this form of dress and make themselves trim for the day later.
The advantage claimed for the plan is one of economy. The tidy costume worn later in the day
is saved considerable wear and tear. The obvious disadvantage is the encouragement it offers
to the sloven. In England whatever you are by nature you must in an ordinary household be down
to breakfast at a fixed hour, presentably dressed; at any rate, with your hair done for the
day, and, it is to be supposed, with your bath accomplished. Directly you depart from this
you open the door to anything in the dressing-gown and slipper way, to lying abed like a sluggard,
and to a waste of your own and the servants' time that undermines the whole welfare of a home.
At least, this is how the question presents itself to English eyes. Meanwhile the continent
continues to drink its coffee attired in dressing-gowns, and to survive quite comfortably.
In every trousseau you still see some of these confections, and on the stage the young wife
who has to cajole her husband in the coming scene usually appears in a coquettish one. But
then it will not be made of shepherd's plaid or snuff-coloured wool.

The dinner hour varies so much in Germany that it is impossible to fix an hour for it. In country
places you will find everyone sitting down at midday, in towns one o'clock is usual, in Hamburg
five is the popular hour, in Berlin you may be invited anywhen. But unless people dine at twelve
they have some kind of second breakfast, and this meal may correspond with the French déjeûner,
or it may be even more informal than the morning coffee. It consists in many places of a roll
or slice of bread with or without a shaving of meat or sausage. Servants have it, children
take it to school, charitable institutions supply the bread without the meat to their inmates.
In South Germany all the men and many women drink beer or wine with this light meal, but in
Prussia most people are content with a belegtes Butterbrot, a roll cut in two, buttered, and
spread with meat or sausage or smoked fish. This carries people on till one or two o'clock,
when the chief meal of the day is served.

All over Germany dinner begins with soup, and in most parts the soup is followed by the Ochsenfleisch
that made it. At least Ochsenfleisch should make it by rights.

"I know what this is," said an old German friend, prodding at a tough slice from a dish we
all found uneatable. "This is not Ochsenfleisch at all. This is cow."

Good gravy or horseradish sauce is served with it, whether it is ox or cow, and for a time
you take a slice day after day without complaining. It is the persistence of the thing that
wears you out in the end. You must be born to Ochsenfleisch to eat it year in and year out
as if it was bread or potatoes. It does not appear as regularly in North as in South Germany;
and in Hamburg you may once in a way have dinner without soup. People who know Germany find
this almost beyond belief, but Hamburg has many little ways of its own, and is a city with
a strong individual character. It is extremely proud of its cooking and its food, and it has
every right to be. I once travelled with two Germans who in a heated way discussed the comparative
merits of various German cities. They could not agree, and they could not let the matter drop.
At last one man got the best of it. "I tell you that Hamburg is the finest city in Germany,"
he said. "In a Hamburg hotel I once ate the best steak I ever ate in my life." The other man
had nothing to say to that. Hamburg has a splendid fish supply, and Holstein brings her quantities
of fruit and of farm produce. Your second breakfast there is like a French déjeûner, a meal
served and prepared according to your means, but a regular meal and not a mere snack. You drink
coffee after it, and so sustain life till five o'clock, when you dine. Then you drink coffee
again, and as your dinner has probably been an uncommonly good one you only need a light supper
at nine o'clock, when a tray will arrive with little sandwiches and slender bottles of beer.
In North Germany, where wine is scarce and dear, it is hardly ever seen in many households,
so that a young Englishman wanting to describe his German friends, divided them for convenience
into wine people and beer people. The wine people were plutocrats, and had red or white Rhine
wine every day for dinner. I probably need not tell my well-informed country people that Germans
never speak of hock.

In households where the chief meal of the day is at one or two o'clock there is afternoon tea
or coffee. It used invariably to be coffee, good hot coffee and fresh rusks and dainty little
Hörnchen and Radankuchen, an excellent light cake baked in a twisty tin. German cakes want
a whole chapter to themselves to do them justice, and they should have it if it were not for
a dialogue that frequently takes place in a family well known to me. The wife is of German
origin, but as she has an English husband and English servants she keeps house in the English
way. Therefore mutton cold or hashed is her frequent portion.

"How I hate hashed mutton," she sometimes says.

"Why do you have it, then?" says the husband, who has a genius for asking apparently innocent
but really provoking questions.

"What else can I have?" says the wife.

"Eel in jelly," says the husband. He once tasted it in Berlin, and it must have given him a
mental shock; for whenever his wife approaches him with a domestic difficulty, asks him, for
instance, what he would like for breakfast, he suggests this inaccessible and uninviting dish.

"There is never anything to eat in England except mutton and apple-tart," says the wife. "Your
plain cooks can't cook anything else. They can't cook those really. Think of a German apple-tart--"

"Why should I? I don't want one."

"That's the hopeless part of it. You are all content with what Daudet called your abominable
cuisine. I thank him for the phrase. It is descriptive."

"Oh, well," says the husband, "we're not a greedy nation."

So if this is the English point of view the less said about cakes the better. And anyhow, it
is in this country that afternoon tea is an engaging meal. Berlin offers you tea nowadays,
but it is never good, and instead of freshly cut bread and butter they have horrid little chokey
biscuits flavoured with vanilla. Old-fashioned Germans used to put a bit of vanilla in the
tea-pot when they had guests they delighted to honour, but they all know better than that nowadays.
The milk is often boiled milk, but even that scarcely explains why tea is so seldom fit to
drink in Germany. Supper is a light meal in most houses. The English mutton bone is never seen,
for when cold meat is eaten it is cut in neat slices and put on a long narrow dish. But there
is nearly always something from the nearest Delikatessen shop with it,--slices of ham or tongue,
or slices of one or two of the various sausages of Germany: Blutwurst, Mettwurst, Schinkenwurst,
Leberwurst, all different and all good. When a hot dish is served it is usually a light one,
often an omelette or some other preparation of eggs; and in spring eggs and bits of asparagus
are a great deal cooked together in various ways: not asparagus heads so often as short lengths
of the stalk sold separately in the market, and quite tender when cooked. There is nearly always
a salad with the cold meat or a dish of the salted cucumbers that make such a good pickle.
The big loaves of light brown rye bread appear at this meal instead of the little white rolls
eaten at breakfast. Beer or wine is drunk, and very often of late years tea as well. Sweets
are not usually served at supper, unless guests are present. They are eaten at the midday dinner,
and each part of Germany has its own favourite dishes.

