There is so much confusion regarding the most distinguished of these early Ardens, that I would
like to examine his story more closely. Dugdale, as I have already noted, is not absolutely
certain that Ralph de Ardern, of Hampton, was a son of Turchil, but believes it sufficiently
to put him in the pedigree. Yet he goes on to state that this Ralph was a justice itinerant
in various reigns. Now, it is not only dates that make this impossible: Turchil had married,
first, the Countess of Perche, and, second, Leverunia; and Ralph de Arderne, of Hampton, is
given as of the first family. But the mother of Ralph the justice was a De Bohun. I propose,
therefore, tentatively, to consider that the first Ralph de Hampton married a De Bohun, and
hope to find the records true of an eldest son Ralph, brother of Robert, the Archdeacon of
Lisiaux, of Peter the clerk, and of Roger of Hampton. This view is supported by many facts,
and it gives time. Ralph was at the height of his power in 1188, the very date at which William
de Ardene, of Hampton, the son of Roger, draws up a deed and affixes his seal.[451] According
to Dugdale, this should be his grandson. The name of Ralph's son and heir is Thomas, not Roger.
It was very unusual for a noble family to bring up the eldest son to the Church, and yet the
Archdeacon of Lisiaux is considered by Dugdale as the eldest son of Ralph, who gives up his
inheritance to his brothers. But if we find a Ralph to be the eldest son, we can easily account
for his giving up the Hampton in Arden home. He had made his fortunes elsewhere. Ralph was
in high favour with the King,[452] Henry II., and had married Amabilia, daughter and coheir
of Ranulph de Glanville,[453] the great lawyer, author, statesman, soldier, and crusader, who,
while Sheriff of York, had made prisoner William the Lion of Scotland, and laid the King of
England under an obligation. Ralph's mother was a daughter of Savaric FitzCana, and sister
of Ralph, Gelduin, and Savaric FitzSavaric. Ralph FitzSavaric having died without heirs, on
the death of his uncle Savaric, Franco, the son of Gelduin, laid claim to his vast possessions
in England and the fief of Bohun in Normandy. It is believed that Gelduin had married within
the forbidden degrees, without dispensation, and that this was the reason that Ralph de Arderne
put forward his mother's claims. Henry II. decided in his favour at a court at Caen in 1187.
But on the accession of Richard I., Ralph fell into disgrace, ostensibly through some delay
in rendering his accounts at Westminster while Sheriff of Hereford, and Henry's decision was
reversed 1189.[454] But it was evidently a doubtful question. Franco died in 1194, and when
his son and heir Engelger came of age, 1198, Ralph de Arderne revived his claim, which was
settled by a compromise. After the disturbances in Normandy, 1208, a new dispute arose between
Engelger, the son of Franco FitzSavaric, and Thomas, the son of Ralph Arden, which ended in
a new compromise.

The offices held by Ralph were numerous. He was Sheriff of Hereford 1184-89,[455] and also
justice itinerant. He married a second wife in 1194, Agnes de la Mara, heiress of the Barony
of Holgate in Shropshire, after which he regained royal favour. He received a gift from the
King of land in Essex, for which he paid[456] £362 16s. 8d. He was made custodian of the temporalities
of Canterbury at the time of the troubles there Bailiff of Pont-Audemar in Normandy, 1198;
in 1202 attended King John at La Suse in Anjou; in 1203 was sent on an embassy to Otho, King
of the Romans; in 1204 went to Flanders on the King's service. He was said to have acted as
justice at Shrewsbury, 1208, but Foss[457] believes this was his grandson, and states that
Coke says so. Ralph de Arderne endowed the Priory of Butey, Sussex, founded by Ralph de Glanville,
with half the town of Bawdsey. He founded the Priory of Shulbrede, near Midhurst, and endowed
it with half a knight's fee in Lavington. His son Thomas was engaged in a lawsuit[458] with
his aunt about the partition of his grandfather Glanville's property. "Thomas de Ardern, et
Radulphus filius Roberti ponunt loco suo Mag. Will. de Lecton versus Will. de Auberville et
Matilda uxorem ejus," etc. There is no mention of Thomas after 14 John, 1213. Lands in Hereford,
Sussex, Essex, and Yorkshire were known to have belonged to him, and many scattered branches
in later periods may represent his descendants. I have not found his arms; were they the same
as William de Ardern of Hampton's, already referred to?

Though Shakespeareans are only concerned with the Ardens who remained in their own county,
genealogists are interested in the fortunes of the whole family. A volume would be necessary
for a complete account, and at present I only attempt to collect and preserve the scattered
facts I have found in various printed and manuscript authorities.

It is too often taken for granted that individuals do not belong to a family because their
names do not appear in the pedigrees collected at the Visitations. We know that the descendants
of younger sons and daughters are frequently omitted, and the sons and daughters themselves
occasionally ignored. For instance, the Sir Robert Arden who was executed in the time of Henry
VI., 1451, is stated[459] to have left seven children, but the name of his heir, Walter, is
alone preserved. Such omissions are more likely to have occurred in earlier times. The Ardens
frequently held land in more counties than one, and thus may appear in county histories as
doubles; while their general use of common Christian names at other times makes it difficult
to separate recorded incidents. Wills, inquisitions, and other records often strangely bring
into closer relationship individuals not known to be connected, and the severe test of dates
often separates those supposed to be near in blood.

The main line had estates in Northampton. Robert de Arden had a charter of free warren in Wapenham
and Sudborough.[460] In 7 Henry IV. Wapenham was assigned as dower to Elena, widow of Sir Henry
de Arden, by Ralph his son, with remainder to Geoffrey de Arden, his brother (see p. 170).
After the death of Elena and Geoffrey it reverted to Ralph, and to Robert, his son, who in
20 Henry VI. received the King's pardon for alienating it without licence. The manor of Sulgrave[461]
was sold by the Traffords to Sir Henry Arden, and it remained in the family until Sir Robert
sold it in 20 Henry VI. Laurence Washington, Mayor of Northampton 1538, had a grant of the
dissolved priory of St. Andrews there. On April 26, 1564, William Arderne of Sulgrave[462]
left to his sister Mary all the portion his father, Richard Arden,[463] had left her, and all
his own goods. He left a legacy to Robert,[464] son of Laurence Washington, and Laurence was
the overseer of his will. There is preserved a bond by John Ardern, Laurence Washington, and
others for £100, July 4, 1587.

An Adam de Arden, clerk, was incumbent of Croughton 1218. Another Adam was Rector of Thornhagh
and Bolewyck 1336 and of Barby 1361. Thomas de Arderne was incumbent of Laxton, July 9, 1310,
and of Clopton-on-the-Wold, 1325. Robert de Ardern, clerk, is mentioned August 16, 1322. Thomas
de Ardern, diac., was presented to Nether Heyford, 1455. Eustachia de Ardern, patron of Holdenby,
1263, presented Ralph de Ardern, and Thomas, son of Thomas Ardern, of Hanwell, recognised as
co-patron Thomas Ardern, of Rotley.

FOOTNOTES:

[439] The will of Thomas Arden of Long Itchington was proved 1552, at Lichfield. Sons, Edmund,
William and Thomas, and six daughters.

[440] Dugdale, 926.

[441] Baker's "Northampton"; Whalley's "Northampton."

[442] Dugdale's "Warwickshire," 927.

[443] Add. Charters, 21, 492.

[444] Cotton MS. Charters, xxii. 15.

[445] Egerton Ch., 368.

[446] Brit. Mus., Ch. lxxxii. 15.

[447] Cott. Ch., xi. 36.

[448] Dugdale's "Warwickshire," 952.

[449] I think the dates show that there must have been two generations of Ralphs. One appears
in another county.

[450] See Genealogist, New Series, XIII.

[451] A lion rampant contourné. See Brit. Mus., Ch. lxxxii. 15.

[452] Nichols's "Herald and Genealogist," vi. 432, and vii. 299-311.

[453] Foss's "Lives of the Judges," i. 379. Campbell's "Lives of the Chief Judges," i. 19.

[454] Pipe Roll, 1 Richard I., pp. 208 and 145, Charter, Richard I., signed at Gorron in Maine,
March 31, 1190.

[455] Fuller's "Worthies of Hereford."

[456] Pipe Roll, Essex, 6 Richard I.

[457] Foss's "Lives of the Judges," i. 338.

[458] Coke, 8th Report, ii. 29, and Blomfield's "Norfolk," viii. 341.

[459] Harleian MS., Visitation of Warwickshire, 1167, f. 57.

[460] Concerning forest rights in Clyve, Northamptonshire, Gilbert de Arden appeared for the
Prior of Markyate, Cherchebikenhull, Kynesbury, 26 Edward I. (55, Inquis. P. M.).

William de la Zouch de Haryngworth enfeoffed Adam de Arderne and Simon Ward in Boroughley Manor
of the Honour of Peverel, Northampton; Eton, Weston, Ing, Houghton Manors, Bedford; Calston
Manor, Wilts; Totnes Castle, Devon; Weston-in-Arden Manor, Wolfareshull, Foulkeshull, and Kelpesham
Manors, Warwick, probably as trustees, 33 Edward III. (79, Inquis. P. M.).

[461] Whalley's "Northampton," i. 25, 263.

[462] 7, Crymes, Somerset House Wills.

[463] Of Whitfield, 29, Street, Somerset House.

[464] Robert's son Laurence sold Sulgrave, went to America, and became the great-grandfather
of George Washington.

CHAPTER IV

THE ARDENS OF CHESHIRE

In the Conqueror's time the Manor of Watford, Northamptonshire, was recognised as belonging
to Gilbert the Cooke, to whom his son Baldwin succeeded. But the next owner was Eustace de
Arden,[465] son of Alexander and Agnes Arden, in the time of Henry II. The first Eustace, born
about 1140, was probably the Eustachius de Arderne who granted Watford Church to the Abbey
of St. James. His son, also named Eustace,[466] died in 1213. The dower of his widow Hawisia
was in Watford and Silvesworth, and Ranulph III., Earl of Chester, became her security that
she would not marry again without license from the King.[467] Her two sons were Eustace[468]
and John de Arderne. Eustace died in 4 Edward I., 1221, leaving a son Eustace. The line ended
with four daughters, coheiresses--Aveline, Mary, Jane, Elena, 1275. The arms of Eustace were:
Gules, on a chief argent, a label azure.[469] I have wondered if the following entries concerned
younger sons of this family: "To Master William of Watford 50 marks for his expenses going
as a messenger to the King beyond the sea";[470] and, "Paid to William de Watford, Keeper of
the Queen's palfreys."[471]

John, the second son of the second Eustace and brother of the third, received either an original
grant, or the confirmation of a grant, from the Earl of Chester of the Manor of Aldford, in
Cheshire. He was probably the son-in-law of the Richard de Aldford who preceded him.[472] As
the Earl of Chester was Hawisia's surety, he may have been her son John's guardian. John afterwards
granted part of this fee to Peter, the Earl's clerk, and another part to Pulton and Chester
Abbey. On November 28, 1213, he compounded with the King for his father's annual payment for
lands in Watford, and granted to Eustace, his brother, the lands he had received there from
his father. He executed this deed in Aldford, August, 1216. In that year he received, as a
Knight of Ranulph, Earl of Chester, then in the Holy Land, a grant of the lands of Geoffrey
de Sautemaris. Sir Walkelyn, his son, succeeded him in or before 1237-38. Through his wife,
Agnes de Orreby, he acquired Elford, in Staffordshire, with Alvanley, Upton, and other manors
in Cheshire. He was frequently at Court, as his attestations to various charters prove, about
41 Henry III. In 1264-65 he granted the Manor of Alvanley to his eldest son, Sir Peter, who
succeeded to all the family estates on the death of his father, about 1268. He bore arms based
not on those of Eustace de Watford, or on those of the Earl of Chester, from whom he held land,
but on those of William de Beauchamp, who had succeeded to the Earldom of Warwick in 1257,
as if to claim descent from the Warwickshire family. His seal appears first in 17 Edward I.
in a release to Sir John de Orreby of a debt due.[473] It bore a shield with three crosses
crosslet pattées, a chief Arderne, with the motto, "Frange, lege tege." See also the charters
in the British Museum.[474] His son and heir by Margery, his wife, was Sir John, who married
Margaret, daughter of Griffin ap Madoc, Lord of Bromfield, of royal Welsh extraction.[475]

Sir John de Arderne at the tournament at Stepney, 2 Edward II., in the retinue of the Earl
of Lancaster, bore "Gules, 10 crosses crosslet, and a chief or."[476]

But it is said that after his marriage the Arden arms were temporarily varied to gules, crusule
or, and a chief or.[477]

In 9 Edward II. he purchased part of Haselover from Geoffrey Salveyn.[478]

In that year the "Nomina de Villarum" gives the name of "Sir Henry de Ardena" as Lord of Elford.
John's name, however, is given in the list by the Lieutenant of the Knights and men-at-arms
of the county, 17 Edward II., 1324; and he was one of the Knights summoned to attend the great
council at Westminster, 17 Edward II. John and Margaret had two sons--John, who succeeded to
Aldford, Alderley, Alvanley, and Elford, 19 Edward III., and Peter, afterwards of Over Alderley.
John married, first, Alice, daughter of Hugh de Venables, and had by her two sons, John and
Peter, and a daughter Margaret. His second wife was Joane, daughter and heiress of Sir Richard
de Stokeport, by whom he had no issue; and his third wife was Ellen Wasteneys, by whom he had
two sons, Thomas and Walkelyn, born before marriage, and two daughters, Isabel, wife of Sir
Hugh Wrottesley, and Maud, wife of Robert Leigh, of Adlington, and a son, born after marriage
(about 1341), who evidently died soon.

Then occurred an extraordinary hitch in the history of primogeniture. His eldest son, John,
had died without issue before his father. Peter, the second son, and natural heir of his brother
and father, then aged twenty-four, on his father's death found by the inquisition[479] that
he died possessed of "no lands,"[480] all his vast possessions being settled on himself and
his wife Ellen only for life, and secured by a deed of gift, in reversion to Thomas, the elder
illegitimate son of Ellen Wasteneys. By an appeal, however, to the courts, based on the previous
settlement on his great-grandfather, Peter, the legitimate heir recovered Alvanley. He married
Cicely,[481] daughter and heiress of Adam de Bredbury, who inherited Hawarden from her father,
and henceforward Alvanley and Hawarden were the chief seats of the Cheshire Ardens. It is evident,
therefore, that the root-meaning of Hawarden, or Harden, has no relation to the family name.

