HOURS IN A LIBRARY

VOL. I.

HOURS IN A LIBRARY

BY

LESLIE STEPHEN

NEW EDITION, WITH ADDITIONS

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL.

     We visit at the shrine, drink in some measure of the
     inspiration, and cannot easily breathe in other air less
     pure, accustomed to immortal fruits.--HAZLITT'S Plain
     Speaker.

     What a place to be in is an old library! It seems as though
     all the souls of all the writers that have bequeathed their
     labours to the Bodleian were reposing here as in some
     dormitory or middle state. I seem to inhale learning,
     walking amid their foliage; and the odour of their old
     moth-scented coverings is fragrant as the first bloom of the
     sciential apples which grew around the happy
     orchard.--CHARLES LAMB, Oxford in the Long Vacation.

     My neighbours think me often alone, and yet at such times I
     am in company with more than five hundred mutes, each of
     whom communicates his ideas to me by dumb signs quite as
     intelligibly as any person living can do by uttering of
     words; and with a motion of my hand I can bring them as near
     to me as I please; I handle them as I like; they never
     complain of ill-usage; and when dismissed from my presence,
     though ever so abruptly, take no offence.--STERNE,
     Letters.

     In a library we are surrounded by many hundreds of dear
     friends imprisoned by an enchanter in paper and leathern
     boxes,--EMERSON, Books, Society, and Solitude.

     Nothing is pleasanter than exploring in a library.--LANDOR,
     Pericles and Aspasia.

     I do not know that I am happiest when alone; but this I am
     sure of, that I am never long even in the society of her I
     love without a yearning for the company of my lamp and my
     utterly confused and tumbled-over library.--BYRON, Moore's
     Life.

     Montesquieu used to say that he had never known a pain or a
     distress which he could not soothe by half an hour of a good
     book.--JOHN MORLEY, On Popular Culture.

     There is no truer word than that of Solomon: 'There is no
     end of making books'; the sight of a great library verifies
     it; there is no end--indeed, it were pity there should
     be.--BISHOP HALL.

     You that are genuine Athenians, devour with a golden
     Epicurism the arts and sciences, the spirits and extractions
     of authors.--CULVERWELL, Light of Nature.

     I have wondered at the patience of the antediluvians; their
     libraries were insufficiently furnished; how then could
     seven or eight hundred years of life be
     supportable?--COWPER, Life and Letters by Southey.

      Unconfused Babel of all tongues! which e'er
      The mighty linguist Fame or Time the mighty traveller,
        That could speak or this could hear!
      Majestic monument and pyramid!
      Where still the shapes of parted souls abide
      Embalmed in verse; exalted souls which now
      Enjoy those arts they wooed so well below,
        Which now all wonders plainly see
        That have been, are, or are to be
      In the mysterious Library,
      The beatific Bodley of the Deity!

             COWLEY, Ode on the Bodleian.

      This to a structure led well known to fame,
        And called, 'The Monument of Vanished Minds,'
      Where when they thought they saw in well-sought books
        The assembled souls of all that men thought wise,
      It bred such awful reverence in their looks,
        As if they saw the buried writers rise.
      Such heaps of written thought; gold of the dead,
        Which Time does still disperse but not devour,
      Made them presume all was from deluge freed
        Which long-lived authors writ ere Noah's shower.

             DAVENANT, Gondibert.

     A good library always makes me melancholy, where the best
     author is as much squeezed and as obscure as a porter at a
     coronation.--SWIFT.

     In my youth I never entered a great library but my
     predominant feeling was one of pain and disturbance of
     mind--not much unlike that which drew tears from Xerxes on
     viewing his immense army, and reflecting that in one hundred
     years not one soul would remain alive. To me, with respect
     to books, the same effect would be brought about by my own
     death. Here, said I, are one hundred thousand books, the
     worst of them capable of giving me some instruction and
     pleasure; and before I can have had time to extract the
     honey from one-twentieth of this hive in all likelihood I
     shall be summoned away.--DE QUINCEY, Letter to a young
     man.

     A man may be judged by his library.--BENTHAM.

     I ever look upon a library with the reverence of a
     temple.--EVELYN, to Wotton.

     'Father, I should like to learn to make gold.' 'And what
     would'st thou do if thou could'st make it?' 'Why, I would
     build a great house and fill it with books.'--SOUTHEY,
     Doctor.

     What would you have more? A wife? That is none of the
     indispensable requisites of life. Books? That is one of
     them, and I have more than I can use.--DAVID HUME, Burton's
     'Life.'

     Talk of the happiness of getting a great prize in the
     lottery! What is that to opening a box of books? The joy
     upon lifting up the cover must be something like that which
     we shall feel when Peter the porter opens the door upstairs,
     and says, 'Please to walk in, Sir.'--SOUTHEY, Life.

     I would rather be a poor man in a garret with plenty of
     books than a king who did not love reading.--MACAULAY.

     Our books ... do not our hearts hug them, and quiet
     themselves in them even more than in God?--BAXTER'S Saint's
     Rest.

     It is our duty to live among books.--NEWMAN, Tracts for the
     Times, No. 2.

     What lovely things books are!--BUCKLE, Life by Huth.

     (Query) Whether the collected wisdom of all ages and nations
     be not found in books?--BERKELEY, Querist.

     Read we must, be writers ever so indifferent.--SHAFTESBURY,
     Characteristics.

     A book's a book, although there's nothing in't.--BYRON,
     English Bards and Scotch Reviewers.

      While you converse with lords and dukes,
      I have their betters here, my books;
      Fixed in an elbow chair at ease
      I choose companions as I please.
      I'd rather have one single shelf
      Than all my friends, except yourself.
      For, after all that can be said,
      Our best companions are the dead.

             SHERIDAN to Swift.

     We often hear of people who will descend to any servility,
     submit to any insult for the sake of getting themselves or
     their children into what is euphemistically called good
     society. Did it ever occur to them that there is a select
     society of all the centuries to which they and theirs can be
     admitted for the asking?--LOWELL, Speech at Chelsea.

     On all sides are we not driven to the conclusion that of all
     things which men can do or make here below, by far the most
     momentous, wonderful, and worthy are the things we call
     books? All that he does and brings to pass is the
     vesture of a book.--CARLYLE, Hero Worship.

                          Yet it is just
      That here in memory of all books which lay
      Their sure foundations in the heart of man,
      ...
      That I should here assert their rights, assert
      Their honours, and should, once for all, pronounce
      Their benediction, speak of them as powers
      For ever to be hallowed; only less
      For what we are and what we may become
      Than Nature's self, which is the breath of God,
      Or His pure word by miracle revealed.

             WORDSWORTH, Prelude.

      Take me to some lofty room,
        Lighted from the western sky,
      Where no glare dispels the gloom,
        Till the golden eve is nigh;
      Where the works of searching thought,
        Chosen books, may still impart
      What the wise of old have taught,
        What has tried the meek of heart;
      Books in long dead tongues that stirred
        Loving hearts in other climes;
      Telling to my eyes, unheard,
        Glorious deeds of olden times:
      Books that purify the thought,
      Spirits of the learned dead,
      Teachers of the little taught,
      Comforters when friends are fled.

             BARNES, Poems of Rural Life.

     A library is like a butcher's shop; it contains plenty of
     meat, but it is all raw; no person living can find a meal in
     it till some good cook comes along and says, 'Sir, I see by
     your looks that you are hungry; I know your taste; be
     patient for a moment and you shall be satisfied that you
     have an excellent appetite!'--G. ELLIS, Lockhart's
     'Scott.'

     A library is itself a cheap university.--H. SIDGWICK,
     Political Economy.

      O such a life as he resolved to live
      Once he had mastered all that books can give!

             BROWNING.

     I will bury myself in my books and the devil may pipe to his
     own.--TENNYSON.

     Words! words! words!--SHAKESPEARE.

HOURS IN A LIBRARY

DE FOE'S NOVELS

According to the high authority of Charles Lamb, it has sometimes happened 'that from no inferior
merit in the rest, but from some superior good fortune in the choice of a subject, some single
work' (of a particular author) 'shall have been suffered to eclipse, and cast into the shade,
the deserts of its less fortunate brethren.' And after quoting the case of Bunyan's 'Holy War'
as compared with the 'Pilgrim's Progress,' he adds that, 'in no instance has this excluding
partiality been exerted with more unfairness than against what may be termed the secondary
novels or romances of De Foe.' He proceeds to declare that there are at least four other fictitious
narratives by the same writer--'Roxana,' 'Singleton,' 'Moll Flanders,' and 'Colonel Jack'--which
possess an interest not inferior to 'Robinson Crusoe'--'except what results from a less felicitous
choice of situation.' Granting most unreservedly that the same hand is perceptible in the minor
novels as in 'Robinson Crusoe,' and that they bear at every page the most unequivocal symptoms
of De Foe's workmanship, I venture to doubt the 'partiality' and the 'unfairness' of preferring
to them their more popular rival. The instinctive judgment of the world is not really biassed
by anything except the intrinsic power exerted by a book over its sympathies; and as in the
long run it has honoured 'Robinson Crusoe,' in spite of the critics, and has comparatively
neglected 'Roxana' and the companion stories, there is probably some good cause for the distinction.
The apparent injustice to books resembles what we often see in the case of men. A. B. becomes
Lord Chancellor, whilst C. D. remains for years a briefless barrister; and yet for the life
of us we cannot tell but that C. D. is the abler man of the two. Perhaps he was wanting in
some one of the less conspicuous elements that are essential to a successful career; he said,
'Open, wheat!' instead of 'Open, sesame!' and the barriers remained unaffected by his magic.
The secret may really be simple enough. The complete success of such a book as 'Robinson' implies,
it may be, the precise adaptation of the key to every ward of the lock. The felicitous choice
of situation to which Lamb refers gave just the required fitness; and it is of little use to
plead that 'Roxana,' 'Colonel Jack,' and others might have done the same trick if only they
had received a little filing, or some slight change in shape: a shoemaker might as well argue
that if you had only one toe less his shoes wouldn't pinch you.

To leave the unsatisfactory ground of metaphor, we may find out, on examination, that De Foe
had discovered in 'Robinson Crusoe' precisely the field in which his talents could be most
effectually applied; and that a very slight alteration in the subject-matter might change the
merit of his work to a disproportionate extent. The more special the idiosyncrasy upon which
a man's literary success is founded, the greater, of course, the probability that a small change
will disconcert him. A man who can only perform upon the drum will have to wait for certain
combinations of other instruments before his special talent can be turned to account. Now,
the talent in which De Foe surpasses all other writers is just one of those peculiar gifts
which must wait for a favourable chance. When a gentleman, in a fairy story, has a power of
seeing a hundred miles, or covering seven leagues at a stride, we know that an opportunity
will speedily occur for putting his faculties to use. But the gentleman with the seven-leagued
boots is useless when the occasion offers itself for telescopic vision, and the eyes are good
for nothing without the power of locomotion. To De Foe, if we may imitate the language of the
'Arabian Nights,' was given a tongue to which no one could listen without believing every word
that he uttered--a qualification, by the way, which would serve its owner far more effectually
in this commonplace world than swords of sharpness or cloaks of darkness, or other fairy paraphernalia.
In other words, he had the most marvellous power ever known of giving verisimilitude to his
fictions; or, in other words again, he had the most amazing talent on record for telling lies.
We have all read how the 'History of the Plague,' the 'Memoirs of a Cavalier,' and even, it
is said, 'Robinson Crusoe,' have succeeded in passing themselves off for veritable narratives.
The 'Memoirs of Captain Carleton' long passed for De Foe's, but the Captain has now gained
admission to the biographical dictionary and is credited with his own memoirs. In either case,
it is as characteristic that a genuine narrative should be attributed to De Foe, as that De
Foe's narrative should be taken as genuine. An odd testimony to De Foe's powers as a liar (a
word for which there is, unfortunately, no equivalent that does not imply some blame) has been
mentioned. Mr. M'Queen, quoted in Captain Burton's 'Nile Basin,' names 'Captain Singleton'
as a genuine account of travels in Central Africa, and seriously mentions De Foe's imaginary
pirate as 'a claimant for the honour of the discovery of the sources of the White Nile.' Probably,
however, this only proves that Mr. M'Queen had never read the book.

Most of the literary artifices to which De Foe owed his power of producing this illusion are
sufficiently plain. Of all the fictions which he succeeded in palming off for truths none is
more instructive than that admirable ghost, Mrs. Veal. Like the sonnets of some great poets,
it contains in a few lines all the essential peculiarities of his art, and an admirable commentary
has been appended to it by Sir Walter Scott. The first device which strikes us is his ingenious
plan for manufacturing corroborative evidence. The ghost appears to Mrs. Bargrave. The story
of the apparition is told by a 'very sober and understanding gentlewoman, who lives within
a few doors of Mrs. Bargrave;' and the character of this sober gentlewoman is supported by
the testimony of a justice of the peace at Maidstone, 'a very intelligent person.' This elaborate
chain of evidence is intended to divert our attention from the obvious circumstance that the
whole story rests upon the authority of the anonymous person who tells us of the sober gentlewoman,
who supports Mrs. Bargrave, and is confirmed by the intelligent justice. Simple as the artifice
appears, it is one which is constantly used in supernatural stories of the present day. One
of those improving legends tells how a ghost appeared to two officers in Canada, and how, subsequently,
one of the officers met the ghost's twin brother in London, and straightway exclaimed, 'You
are the person who appeared to me in Canada!' Many people are diverted from the weak part of
the story by this ingenious confirmation, and, in their surprise at the coherence of the narrative,
forget that the narrative itself rests upon entirely anonymous evidence. A chain is no stronger
than its weakest link; but if you show how admirably the last few are united together, half
the world will forget to test the security of the equally essential links which are kept out
of sight. De Foe generally repeats a similar trick in the prefaces of his fictions. ''Tis certain,'
he says, in the 'Memoirs of a Cavalier,' 'no man could have given a description of his retreat
from Marston Moor to Rochdale, and thence over the moors to the North, in so apt and proper
terms, unless he had really travelled over the ground he describes,' which, indeed, is quite
true, but by no means proves that the journey was made by a fugitive from that particular battle.
He separates himself more ostentatiously from the supposititious author by praising his admirable
manner of relating the memoirs, and the 'wonderful variety of incidents with which they are
beautified;' and, with admirable impudence, assures us that they are written in so soldierly
a style, that it 'seems impossible any but the very person who was present in every action
here related was the relater of them.' In the preface to 'Roxana,' he acts, with equal spirit,
the character of an impartial person, giving us the evidence on which he is himself convinced
of the truth of the story, as though he would, of all things, refrain from pushing us unfairly
for our belief. The writer, he says, took the story from the lady's own mouth: he was, of course,
obliged to disguise names and places; but was himself 'particularly acquainted with this lady's
first husband, the brewer, and with his father, and also with his bad circumstances, and knows
that first part of the story.' The rest we must, of course, take upon the lady's own evidence,
but less unwillingly, as the first is thus corroborated. We cannot venture to suggest to so
calm a witness that he has invented both the lady and the writer of her history; and, in short,
that when he says that A. says that B. says something, it is, after all, merely the anonymous
'he' who is speaking. In giving us his authority for 'Moll Flanders,' he ventures upon the
more refined art of throwing a little discredit upon the narrator's veracity. She professes
to have abandoned her evil ways, but, as he tells us with a kind of aside, and as it were cautioning
us against over-incredulity, 'it seems' (a phrase itself suggesting the impartial looker-on)
that in her old age 'she was not so extraordinary a penitent as she was at first; it seems
only' (for, after all, you mustn't make too much of my insinuations) 'that indeed she always
spoke with abhorrence of her former life.' So we are left in a qualified state of confidence,
as if we had been talking about one of his patients with the wary director of a reformatory.

This last touch, which is one of De Foe's favourite expedients, is most fully exemplified in
the story of Mrs. Veal. The author affects to take us into his confidence, to make us privy
to the pros and cons in regard to the veracity of his own characters, till we are quite disarmed.
The sober gentlewoman vouches for Mrs. Bargrave; but Mrs. Bargrave is by no means allowed to
have it all her own way. One of the ghost's communications related to the disposal of a certain
sum of 10l. a year, of which Mrs. Bargrave, according to her own account, could have known
nothing, except by this supernatural intervention. Mrs. Veal's friends, however, tried to throw
doubt upon the story of her appearance, considering that it was disreputable for a decent woman
to go abroad after her death. One of them, therefore, declared that Mrs. Bargrave was a liar,
and that she had, in fact, known of the 10l. beforehand. On the other hand, the person who
thus attacked Mrs. Bargrave had himself the 'reputation of a notorious liar.' Mr. Veal, the
ghost's brother, was too much of a gentleman to make such gross imputations. He confined himself
to the more moderate assertion that Mrs. Bargrave had been crazed by a bad husband. He maintained
that the story must be a mistake, because, just before her death, his sister had declared that
she had nothing to dispose of. This statement, however, may be reconciled with the ghost's
remarks about the 10l., because she obviously mentioned such a trifle merely by way of a token
of the reality of her appearance. Mr. Veal, indeed, makes rather a better point by stating
that a certain purse of gold mentioned by the ghost was found, not in the cabinet where she
told Mrs. Bargrave that she had placed it, but in a comb-box. Yet, again, Mr. Veal's statement
is here rather suspicious, for it is known that Mrs. Veal was very particular about her cabinet,
and would not have let her gold out of it. We are left in some doubts by this conflict of evidence,
although the obvious desire of Mr. Veal to throw discredit on the story of his sister's appearance
rather inclines us to believe in Mrs. Bargrave's story, who could have had no conceivable motive
for inventing such a fiction. The argument is finally clenched by a decisive coincidence. The
ghost wears a silk dress. In the course of a long conversation she incidentally mentioned to
Mrs. Bargrave that this was a scoured silk, newly made up. When Mrs. Bargrave reported this
remarkable circumstance to a certain Mrs. Wilson, 'You have certainly seen her,' exclaimed
that lady, 'for none knew but Mrs. Veal and myself that the gown had been scoured.' To this
crushing piece of evidence it seems that neither Mr. Veal nor the notorious liar could invent
any sufficient reply.

One can almost fancy De Foe chuckling as he concocted the refinements of this most marvellous
narrative. The whole artifice is, indeed, of a simple kind. Lord Sunderland, according to Macaulay,
once ingeniously defended himself against a charge of treachery, by asking whether it was possible
that any man should be so base as to do that which he was, in fact, in the constant habit of
doing. De Foe asks us in substance, Is it conceivable that any man should tell stories so elaborate,
so complex, with so many unnecessary details, with so many inclinations of evidence this way
and that, unless the stories were true? We instinctively answer, that it is, in fact, inconceivable;
and, even apart from any such refinements as those noticed, the circumstantiality of the stories
is quite sufficient to catch an unworthy critic. It is, indeed, perfectly easy to tell a story
which shall be mistaken for a bonâ fide narrative, if only we are indifferent to such considerations
as making it interesting or artistically satisfactory.

The praise which has been lavished upon De Foe for the verisimilitude of his novels seems to
be rather extravagant. The trick would be easy enough, if it were worth performing. The story-teller
cannot be cross-examined; and if he is content to keep to the ordinary level of commonplace
facts, there is not the least difficulty in producing conviction. We recognise the fictitious
character of an ordinary novel, because it makes a certain attempt at artistic unity, or because
the facts are such as could obviously not be known to, or would not be told by, a real narrator,
or possibly because they are inconsistent with other established facts. If a man chooses to
avoid such obvious confessions of unreality, he can easily be as life-like as De Foe. I do
not suppose that foreign correspondence of a newspaper is often composed in the Strand; but
it is only because I believe that the honesty of writers in the press is far too great to allow
them to commit a crime which must be speedily detected by independent evidence. Lying is, after
all, the easiest of all things, if the liar be not too ambitious. A little clever circumstantiality
will lull any incipient suspicion; and it must be added that De Foe, in adopting the tone of
a bonâ fide narrator, not unfrequently overreaches himself. He forgets his dramatic position
in his anxiety to be minute. Colonel Jack, at the end of a long career, tells us how one of
his boyish companions stole certain articles at a fair, and gives us the list, of which this
is a part: '5thly, a silver box, with 7s. in small silver; 6, a pocket-handkerchief; 7, another;
8, a jointed baby, and a little looking-glass.' The affectation of extreme precision, especially
in the charming item 'another,' destroys the perspective of the story. We are listening to
a contemporary, not to an old man giving us his fading recollections of a disreputable childhood.

The peculiar merit, then, of De Foe must be sought in something more than the circumstantial
nature of his lying, or even the ingenious artifices by which he contrives to corroborate his
own narrative. These, indeed, show the pleasure which he took in simulating truth; and he may
very probably have attached undue importance to this talent in the infancy of novel-writing,
as in the infancy of painting it was held for the greatest of triumphs when birds came and
pecked at the grapes in a picture. It is curious, indeed, that De Foe and Richardson, the founders
of our modern school of fiction, appear to have stumbled upon their discovery by a kind of
accident. As De Foe's novels are simply history minus the facts, so Richardson's are a series
of letters minus the correspondents. The art of novel-writing, like the art of cooking pigs
in Lamb's most philosophical as well as humorous apologue, first appeared in its most cumbrous
shape. As Hoti had to burn his cottage for every dish of pork, Richardson and De Foe had to
produce fiction at the expense of a close approach to falsehood. The division between the art
of lying and the art of fiction was not distinctly visible to either; and both suffer to some
extent from the attempt to produce absolute illusion, where they should have been content with
portraiture. And yet the defect is balanced by the vigour naturally connected with an unflinching
realism. That this power rested, in De Foe's case, upon something more than a bit of literary
trickery, may be inferred from his fate in another department of authorship. He twice got into
trouble for a device exactly analogous to that which he afterwards practised in fiction. On
both occasions he was punished for assuming a character for purposes of mystification. In the
latest instance, it is seen, the pamphlet called 'What if the Pretender Comes?' was written
in such obvious irony, that the mistake of his intentions must have been wilful. The other
and better-known performance, 'The Shortest Way with the Dissenters,' seems really to have
imposed upon some of his readers. It is difficult in these days of toleration to imagine that
any one can have taken the violent suggestions of the 'Shortest Way' as put forward seriously.
''Tis hard,' he says, 'that this should not be perceived by all the town; that not one man
can see it, either Churchman or Dissenter.' It certainly was very hard; but a perusal of the
whole pamphlet may make it a degree more intelligible. Ironical writing of this kind is in
substance a reductio ad absurdum. It is a way of saying the logical result of your opinions
is such or such a monstrous error. So long as the appearance of logic is preserved, the error
cannot be stated too strongly. The attempt to soften the absurdity so as to take in an antagonist
is injurious artistically, if it may be practically useful. An ironical intention which is
quite concealed might as well not exist. And thus the unscrupulous use of the same weapon by
Swift is now far more telling than De Foe's comparatively guarded application of it. The artifice,
however, is most skilfully carried out for the end which De Foe had in view. The 'Shortest
Way' begins with a comparative gravity to throw us off our guard; the author is not afraid
of imitating a little of the dulness of his supposed antagonists, and repeats with all imaginable
seriousness the very taunts which a High Church bigot would in fact have used. It was not a
sound defence of persecution to say that the Dissenters had been cruel when they had the upper
hand, and that penalties imposed upon them were merely retaliation for injuries suffered under
Cromwell and from Scottish Presbyterians; but it was one of those topics upon which a hot-headed
persecutor would naturally dwell, though De Foe gives him rather more forcible language than
he would be likely to possess. It is only towards the end that the ironical purpose crops out
in what we should have thought an unmistakable manner. Few writers would have preserved their
incognito so long. The caricature would have been too palpable, and invited ridicule too ostentatiously.
An impatient man soon frets under the mask and betrays his real strangeness in the hostile camp.

De Foe in fact had a peculiarity at first sight less favourable to success in fiction than
in controversy. Amongst the political writers of that age he was, on the whole, distinguished
for good temper and an absence of violence. Although a party man, he was by no means a man
to swallow the whole party platform. He walked on his own legs, and was not afraid to be called
a deserter by more thoroughgoing partisans. The principles which he most ardently supported
were those of religious toleration and hatred to every form of arbitrary power. Now, the intellectual
groundwork upon which such a character is formed has certain conspicuous merits, along with
certain undeniable weaknesses. Amongst the first may be reckoned a strong grasp of facts--which
was developed to an almost disproportionate degree in De Foe--and a resolution to see things
as they are without the gloss which is contracted from strong party sentiment. He was one of
those men of vigorous common-sense who like to have everything down plainly and distinctly
in good unmistakable black and white, and indulge a voracious appetite for facts and figures.
He was, therefore, able--within the limits of his vision--to see things from both sides, and
to take his adversaries' opinions as calmly as his own, so long, at least, as they dealt with
the class of considerations with which he was accustomed to deal; for, indeed, there are certain
regions of discussion to which we cannot be borne on the wings of statistics, or even of common-sense.
And this, the weak side of his intellect, is equally unmistakable. The matter-of-fact man may
be compared to one who suffers from colour-blindness. Perhaps he may have a power of penetrating,
and even microscopic vision; but he sees everything in his favourite black and white or gray,
and loses all the delights of gorgeous, though it may be deceptive, colouring. One man sees
everything in the forcible light and shade of Rembrandt: a few heroes stand out conspicuously
in a focus of brilliancy from a background of imperfectly defined shadows, clustering round
the centre in strange but picturesque confusion. To another, every figure is full of interest,
with singular contrasts and sharply-defined features; the whole effect is somewhat spoilt by
the want of perspective and the perpetual sparkle and glitter; yet when we fix our attention
upon any special part, it attracts us by its undeniable vivacity and vitality. To a third,
again, the individual figures become dimmer, but he sees a slow and majestic procession of
shapes imperceptibly developing into some harmonious whole. Men profess to reach their philosophical
conclusions by some process of logic; but the imagination is the faculty which furnishes the
raw material upon which the logic is employed, and, unconsciously to its owners, determines,
for the most part, the shape into which their theories will be moulded. Now, De Foe was above
the ordinary standard, in so far as he did not, like most of us, see things merely as a blurred
and inextricable chaos; but he was below the great imaginative writers in the comparative coldness
and dry precision of his mental vision. To him the world was a vast picture, from which all
confusion was banished; everything was definite, clear, and precise as in a photograph; as
in a photograph, too, everything could be accurately measured, and the result stated in figures;
by the same parallel, there was a want of perspective, for the most distant objects were as
precisely given as the nearest; and yet further, there was the same absence of the colouring
which is caused in natural objects by light and heat, and in mental pictures by the fire of
imaginative passion. The result is a product which is to Fielding or Scott what a portrait
by a first-rate photographer is to one by Vandyke or Reynolds, though, perhaps, the peculiar
qualifications which go to make a De Foe are almost as rare as those which form the more elevated
artist.

To illustrate this a little more in detail, one curious proof of the want of the passionate
element in De Foe's novels is the singular calmness with which he describes his villains. He
always looks at the matter in a purely business-like point of view. It is very wrong to steal,
or break any of the commandments: partly because the chances are that it won't pay, and partly
also because the devil will doubtless get hold of you in time. But a villain in De Foe is extremely
like a virtuous person, only that, so to speak, he has unluckily backed the losing side. Thus,
for example, Colonel Jack is a thief from his youth up; Moll Flanders is a thief, and worse;
Roxana is a highly immoral lady, and is under some suspicion of a most detestable murder; and
Captain Singleton is a pirate of the genuine buccaneering school. Yet we should really doubt,
but for their own confessions, whether they have villainy enough amongst them to furnish an
average pickpocket. Roxana occasionally talks about a hell within, and even has unpleasant
dreams concerning 'apparitions of devils and monsters, of falling into gulphs, and from off
high and steep precipices.' She has, moreover, excellent reasons for her discomfort. Still,
in spite of a very erroneous course of practice, her moral tone is all that can be desired.
She discourses about the importance of keeping to the paths of virtue with the most exemplary
punctuality, though she does not find them convenient for her own personal use. Colonel Jack
is a young Arab of the streets--as it is fashionable to call them now-a-days--sleeping in the
ashes of a glasshouse by night, and consorting with thieves by day. Still the exemplary nature
of his sentiments would go far to establish Lord Palmerston's rather heterodox theory of the
innate goodness of man. He talks like a book from his earliest infancy. He once forgets himself
so far as to rob a couple of poor women on the highway instead of picking rich men's pockets;
but his conscience pricks him so much that he cannot rest till he has restored the money. Captain
Singleton is a still more striking case: he is a pirate by trade, but with a strong resemblance
to the ordinary British merchant in his habits of thought. He ultimately retires from a business
in which the risks are too great for his taste, marries, and settles down quietly on his savings.
There is a certain Quaker who joins his ship, really as a volunteer, but under a show of compulsion,
in order to avoid the possible inconveniences of a capture. The Quaker always advises him in
his difficulties in such a way as to avoid responsibility. When they are in action with a Portuguese
man-of-war, for example, the Quaker sees a chance of boarding, and, coming up to Singleton,
says very calmly, 'Friend, what dost thou mean? why dost thou not visit thy neighbour in the
ship, the door being open for thee?' This ingenious gentleman always preserves as much humanity
as is compatible with his peculiar position, and even prevents certain negroes from being tortured
into confession, on the unanswerable ground that, as neither party understands a word of the
other's language, the confession will not be to much purpose. 'It is no compliment to my moderation,'
says Singleton, 'to say, I was convinced by these reasons; and yet we had all much ado to keep
our second lieutenant from murdering some of them to make them tell.'

Now, this humane pirate takes up pretty much the position which De Foe's villains generally
occupy in good earnest. They do very objectionable things; but they always speak like steady,
respectable Englishmen, with an eye to the main chance. It is true that there is nothing more
difficult than to make a villain tell his own story naturally; in a way, that is, so as to
show at once the badness of the motive and the excuse by which the actor reconciles it to his
own mind. De Foe is entirely deficient in this capacity of appreciating a character different
from his own. His actors are merely so many repetitions of himself placed under different circumstances
and committing crimes in the way of business, as De Foe might himself have carried out a commercial
transaction. From the outside they are perfect; they are evidently copied from the life; and
Captain Singleton is himself a repetition of the celebrated Captain Kidd, who indeed is mentioned
in the novel. But of the state of mind which leads a man to be a pirate, and of the effects
which it produces upon his morals, De Foe has either no notion, or is, at least, totally incapable
of giving us a representation. All which goes by the name of psychological analysis in modern
fiction is totally alien to his art. He could, as we have said, show such dramatic power as
may be implied in transporting himself to a different position, and looking at matters even
from his adversary's point of view; but of the further power of appreciating his adversary's
character he shows not the slightest trace. He looks at his actors from the outside, and gives
us with wonderful minuteness all the details of their lives; but he never seems to remember
that within the mechanism whose working he describes there is a soul very different from that
of Daniel De Foe. Rather, he seems to see in mankind nothing but so many million Daniel De
Foes; they are in all sorts of postures, and thrown into every variety of difficulty, but the
stuff of which they are composed is identical with that which he buttons into his own coat;
there is variety of form, but no colouring, in his pictures of life.

We may ask again, therefore, what is the peculiar source of De Foe's power? He has little,
or no dramatic power, in the higher sense of the word, which implies sympathy with many characters
and varying tones of mind. If he had written 'Henry IV.,' Falstaff, and Hotspur, and Prince
Hal would all have been as like each other as are generally the first and second murderer.
Nor is the mere fact that he tells a story with a strange appearance of veracity sufficient;
for a story may be truth-like and yet deadly dull. Indeed, no candid critic can deny that this
is the case with some of De Foe's narratives; as, for example, the latter part of 'Colonel
Jack,' where the details of management of a plantation in Virginia are sufficiently uninteresting
in spite of the minute financial details. One device, which he occasionally employs with great
force, suggests an occasional source of interest. It is generally reckoned as one of his most
skilful tricks that in telling a story he cunningly leaves a few stray ends, which are never
taken up. Such is the well-known incident of Xury, in 'Robinson Crusoe.' This contrivance undoubtedly
gives an appearance of authenticity, by increasing the resemblance to real narratives; it is
like the trick of artificially roughening a stone after it has been fixed into a building,
to give it the appearance of being fresh from the quarry. De Foe, however, frequently extracts
a more valuable piece of service from these loose ends. The situation which has been most praised
in De Foe's novels is that which occurs at the end of 'Roxana.' Roxana, after a life of wickedness,
is at last married to a substantial merchant. She has saved, from the wages of sin, the convenient
sum of 2,056l. a year, secured upon excellent mortgages. Her husband has 17,000l. in cash,
after deducting a 'black article of 8,000 pistoles,' due on account of a certain lawsuit in
Paris, and 1,320l. a year in rent. There is a satisfaction about these definite sums which
we seldom receive from the vague assertions of modern novelists. Unluckily, a girl turns up
at this moment who shows great curiosity about Roxana's history. It soon becomes evident that
she is, in fact, Roxana's daughter by a former and long since deserted husband; but she cannot
be acknowledged without a revelation of her mother's subsequently most disreputable conduct.
Now, Roxana has a devoted maid, who threatens to get rid, by fair means or foul, of this importunate
daughter. Once she fails in her design, but confesses to her mistress that, if necessary, she
will commit the murder. Roxana professes to be terribly shocked, but yet has a desire to be
relieved at almost any price from her tormentor. The maid thereupon disappears again; soon
afterwards the daughter disappears too; and Roxana is left in terrible doubt, tormented by
the opposing anxieties that her maid may have murdered her daughter, or that her daughter may
have escaped and revealed the mother's true character. Here is a telling situation for a sensation
novelist; and the minuteness with which the story is worked out, whilst we are kept in suspense,
supplies the place of the ordinary rant; to say nothing of the increased effect due to apparent
veracity, in which certainly few sensation novelists can even venture a distant competition.
The end of the story differs still more widely from modern art. Roxana has to go abroad with
her husband, still in a state of doubt. Her maid after a time joins her, but gives no intimation
as to the fate of the daughter; and the story concludes by a simple statement that Roxana afterwards
fell into well-deserved misery. The mystery is certainly impressive; and Roxana is heartily
afraid of the devil and the gallows, to say nothing of the chance of losing her fortune. Whether,
as Lamb maintained, the conclusion in which the mystery is cleared up is a mere forgery, or
was added by De Foe to satisfy the ill-judged curiosity of his readers, I do not profess to
decide. Certainly it rather spoils the story; but in this, as in some other cases, one is often
left in doubt as to the degree in which De Foe was conscious of his own merits.

Another instance on a smaller scale of the effective employment of judicious silence, is an
incident in 'Captain Singleton.' The Quaker of our acquaintance meets with a Japanese priest
who speaks a few words of English, and explains that he has learnt it from thirteen Englishmen,
the only remnant of thirty-two who had been wrecked on the coast of Japan. To confirm his story,
he produces a bit of paper on which is written, in plain English words: 'We came from Greenland
and from the North Pole.' Here are claimants for the discovery of a North-west Passage, of
whom we would gladly hear more. Even De Foe's imagination recognised and delighted in a certain
margin of mystery to this harsh world of facts and figures. He is generally too anxious to
set everything before us in broad daylight; there is too little of the thoughts and emotions
which inhabit the twilight of the mind; of those dim half-seen forms which exercise the strongest
influence upon the imagination, and are the most tempting subjects for the poet's art. De Foe,
in truth, was little enough of a poet. Sometimes by mere force of terse idiomatic language
he rises into real poetry, as it was understood in the days when Pope and Dryden were our lawgivers.
It is often really vigorous. The well-known verses--

    Wherever God erects a house of prayer,
    The devil always builds a chapel there--

which begin the 'True-born Englishman,' or the really fine lines which occur in the 'Hymn to
the Pillory,' that 'hieroglyphic state machine, contrived to punish fancy in,' and ending--

    Tell them that placed him here,
    They're scandals to the times,
    Are at a loss to find his guilt,
    And can't commit his crimes--

may stand for specimens of his best manner. More frequently he degenerates into the merest
doggerel, e.g.--

    No man was ever yet so void of sense,
    As to debate the right of self-defence,
    A principle so grafted in the mind,
    With nature born, and does like nature bind;
    Twisted with reason, and with nature too,
    As neither one nor t'other can undo--

which is scarcely a happy specimen of the difficult art of reasoning in verse. His verse is
at best vigorous epigrammatic writing, such as would now be converted into leading articles,
twisted with more or less violence into rhyme. And yet there is a poetical side to his mind,
or at least a susceptibility to poetical impressions of a certain order. And as a novelist
is on the border-line between poetry and prose, and novels should be as it were prose saturated
with poetry, we may expect to come in this direction upon the secret of De Foe's power. Although
De Foe for the most part deals with good tangible subjects, which he can weigh and measure
and reduce to moidores and pistoles, the mysterious has a very strong though peculiar attraction
for him. It is indeed that vulgar kind of mystery which implies nothing of reverential awe.
He was urged by a restless curiosity to get away from this commonplace world, and reduce the
unknown regions beyond to scale and measure. The centre of Africa, the wilds of Siberia, and
even more distinctly the world of spirits, had wonderful charms for him. Nothing would have
given him greater pleasure than to determine the exact number of the fallen angels and the
date of their calamity. In the 'History of the Devil' he touches, with a singular kind of humorous
gravity, upon several of these questions, and seems to apologise for his limited information.
'Several things,' he says, 'have been suggested to set us a-calculating the number of this
frightful throng of devils who, with Satan the master-devil, was thus cast out of heaven.'
He declines the task, though he quotes with a certain pleasure the result obtained by a grave
calculator, who found that in the first line of Satan's army there were a thousand times a
hundred thousand million devils, and more in the other two. He gives a kind of arithmetical
measure of the decline of the devil's power by pointing out that 'he who was once equal to
the angel who killed eighty thousand men in one night, is not able now, without a new commission,
to take away the life of one Job.' He is filled with curiosity as to the proceedings of the
first parliament (p--------t as he delicately puts it) of devils; he regrets that as he was
not personally present in that 'black divan'--at least, not that he can remember, for who can
account for his pre-existent state?--he cannot say what happened; but he adds, 'If I had as
much personal acquaintance with the devil as would admit it, and could depend upon the truth
of what answer he would give me, the first question would be, what measures they (the devils)
resolved on at their first assembly?' and the second how they employed the time between their
fall and the creation of the man? Here we see the instinct of the politician; and we may add
that De Foe is thoroughly dissatisfied with Milton's statements upon this point, though admiring
his genius; and goes so far as to write certain verses intended as a correction of, or interpolation
into, 'Paradise Lost.'

Mr. Ruskin, in comparing Milton's Satan with Dante's, somewhere remarks that the vagueness
of Milton, as compared with the accurate measurements given by Dante, is so far a proof of
less activity of the imaginative faculty. It is easier to leave the devil's stature uncertain
than to say that he was eighteen feet high. Without disputing the proposition as Mr. Ruskin
puts it, we fancy that he would scarcely take De Foe's poetry as an improvement in dignity
upon Milton's. We may, perhaps, guess at its merits from this fragment of a speech in prose,
addressed to Adam by Eve: 'What ails the sot?' says the new termagant. 'What are you afraid
of?... Take it, you fool, and eat.... Take it, I say, or I will go and cut down the tree, and
you shall never eat any of it at all; and you shall still be a fool, and be governed by your
wife for ever.' This, and much more gross buffoonery of the same kind, is apparently intended
to recommend certain sound moral aphorisms to the vulgar; but the cool arithmetical method
by which De Foe investigates the history of the devil, his anxiety to pick up gossip about
him, and the view which he takes of him as a very acute and unscrupulous politician--though
impartially vindicating him from some of Mr. Milton's aspersions--is exquisitely characteristic.

If we may measure the imaginative power of great poets by the relative merits of their conceptions
of Satan, we might find a humbler gauge for inferior capacities in the power of summoning awe-inspiring
ghosts. The difficulty of the feat is extreme. Your ghost, as Bottom would have said, is a
very fearful wild-fowl to bring upon the stage. He must be handled delicately, or he is spoilt.
Scott has a good ghost or two; but Lord Lytton, almost the only writer who has recently dealt
with the supernatural, draws too freely upon our belief, and creates only melodramatic spiritual
beings, with a strong dash of the vulgarising element of modern 'spiritualism.' They are scarcely
more awful beings than the terrible creations of the raw-head-and-bloody-bones school of fiction.

Amongst this school we fear that De Foe must, on the whole, be reckoned. We have already made
acquaintance with Mrs. Veal, who, in her ghostly condition, talks for an hour and three-quarters
with a gossip over a cup of tea; who, indeed, so far forgets her ghostly condition as to ask
for a cup of the said tea, and only evades the consequences of her blunder by one of those
rather awkward excuses which we all sometimes practise in society; and who, in short, is the
least ethereal spirit that was ever met with outside a table. De Foe's extraordinary love for
supernatural stories of the gossiping variety found vent in 'A History of Apparitions,' and
his 'System of Magic.' The position which he takes up is a kind of modified rationalism. He
believes that there are genuine apparitions which personate our dead friends, and give us excellent
pieces of advice on occasion; but he refuses to believe that the spirits can appear themselves,
on account 'of the many strange inconveniences and ill consequences which would happen if the
souls of men and women, unembodied and departed, were at liberty to visit the earth.' De Foe
is evidently as familiar with the habits of spirits generally as of the devil. In that case,
for example, the feuds of families would never die, for the injured person would be always
coming back to right himself. He proceeds upon this principle to account for many apparitions,
as, for example, one which appeared in the likeness of a certain J. O. of the period, and strongly
recommended his widow to reduce her expenses. He won't believe that the Virgin appeared to
St. Francis, because all stories of that kind are mere impostures of the priests; but he thinks
it very likely that he was haunted by the devil, who may have sometimes taken the Virgin's
shape. In the 'History of Witchcraft' De Foe tells us how, as he was once riding in the country,
he met a man on the way to inquire of a certain wizard. De Foe, according to his account, which
may or may not be intended as authentic, waited the whole of the next day at a public-house
in a country town, in order to hear the result of the inquiry; and had long conversations,
reported in his usual style, with infinite 'says he's' and 'says I's,' in which he tried to
prove that the wizard was an impostor. This lets us into the secret of many of De Foe's apparitions.
They are the ghosts that frighten villagers as they cross commons late at night, or that rattle
chains and display lights in haunted houses. Sometimes they have vexed knavish attorneys by
discovering long-hidden deeds. Sometimes they have enticed highwaymen into dark corners of
woods, and there the wretched criminal finds in their bags (for ghosts of this breed have good
substantial luggage) nothing but a halter and a bit of silver (value exactly 13-1/2d.) to pay
the hangman. When he turns to the owner, he has vanished. Occasionally, they are the legends
told by some passing traveller from distant lands--probably genuine superstitions in their
origin, but amplified by tradition into marvellous exactitude of detail, and garnished with
long gossiping conversations. Such a ghost, which, on the whole, is my favourite, is the mysterious
Owke Mouraski. This being, whether devil or good spirit no man knows, accompanied a traveller
for four years through the steppes of Russia, and across Norway, Turkey, and various other
countries. On the march he was always seen a mile to the left of the party, keeping parallel
with them, in glorious indifference to roads. He crossed rivers without bridges, and the sea
without ships. Everywhere, in the wild countries, he was known by name and dreaded; for if
he entered a house, some one would die there within a year. Yet he was good to the traveller,
going so far, indeed, on one occasion, as to lend him a horse, and frequently treating him
to good advice. Towards the end of the journey Owke Mouraski informed his companion that he
was 'the inhabitant of an invisible region,' and afterwards became very familiar with him.
The traveller, indeed, would never believe that his friend was a devil, a scepticism of which
De Foe doubtfully approves. The story, however, must be true, because, as De Foe says, he saw
it in manuscript many years ago; and certainly Owke is of a superior order to most of the pot-house
ghosts.

De Foe, doubtless, had an insatiable appetite for legends of this kind, talked about them with
infinite zest in innumerable gossips, and probably smoked pipes and consumed ale in abundance
during the process. The ghosts are the substantial creations of the popular fancy, which no
longer nourished itself upon a genuine faith in a more lofty order of spiritual beings. It
is superstition become gross and vulgar before it disappears for ever. Romance and poetry have
pretty well departed from these ghosts, as from the witches of the period, who are little better
than those who still linger in our country villages and fill corners of newspapers, headed
'Superstition in the nineteenth century.' In his novels De Foe's instinct for probability generally
enables him to employ the marvellous moderately, and, therefore, effectively; he is specially
given to dreams; they are generally verified just enough to leave us the choice of credulity
or scepticism, and are in excellent keeping with the supposed narrator. Roxana tells us how
one morning she suddenly sees her lover's face as though it were a death's-head, and his clothes
covered with blood. In the evening the lover is murdered. One of Moll Flanders' husbands hears
her call him at a distance of many miles--a superstition, by the way, in which Boswell, if
not Johnson, fully believed. De Foe shows his usual skill in sometimes making the visions or
omens fail of a too close fulfilment, as in the excellent dream where Robinson Crusoe hears
Friday's father tell him of the sailors' attempt to murder the Spaniards: no part of the dream,
as he says, is specifically true, though it has a general truth; and hence we may, at our choice,
suppose it to have been supernatural, or to be merely a natural result of Crusoe's anxiety.
This region of the marvellous, however, only affects De Foe's novels in a subordinate degree.
The Owke Mouraski suggests another field in which a lover of the mysterious could then find
room for his imagination. The world still presented a boundless wilderness of untravelled land.
Mapped and explored territory was still a bright spot surrounded by chaotic darkness, instead
of the two being in the reverse proportions. Geographers might fill up huge tracts by writing
'here is much gold,' or putting 'elephants instead of towns.' De Foe's gossiping acquaintance,
when they were tired of ghosts, could tell of strange adventures in wild seas, where merchantmen
followed a narrow track, exposed to the assaults of pirates; or of long journeys over endless
steppes, in the days when travelling was travelling indeed; when distances were reckoned by
months, and men might expect to meet undiscovered tribes and monsters unimagined by natural
historians. Doubtless he had listened greedily to the stories of seafaring men and merchants
from the Gold Coast or the East. 'Captain Singleton,' to omit 'Robinson Crusoe' for the present,
shows the form into which these stories moulded themselves in his mind. Singleton, besides
his other exploits, anticipated Livingstone in crossing Africa from sea to sea. De Foe's biographers
rather unnecessarily admire the marvellous way in which his imaginary descriptions have been
confirmed by later travellers. And it is true that Singleton found two great lakes, which may,
if we please, be identified with those of recent discoverers. His other guesses are not surprising.
As a specimen of the mode in which he filled up the unknown space we may mention that he covers
the desert 'with a kind of thick moss of a blackish dead colour,' which is not a very impressive
phenomenon. It is in the matter of wild beasts, however, that he is strongest. Their camp is
in one place surrounded by 'innumerable numbers of devilish creatures.' These creatures were
as 'thick as a drove of bullocks coming to a fair,' so that they could not fire without hitting
some; in fact, a volley brought down three tigers and two wolves, besides one creature 'of
an ill-gendered kind, between a tiger and a leopard.' Before long they met an 'ugly, venomous,
deformed kind of a snake or serpent,' which had 'a hellish, ugly, deformed look and voice;'
indeed, they would have recognised in it the being who most haunted De Foe's imaginary world--the
devil--except that they could not think what business the devil could have where there were
no people. The fauna of this country, besides innumerable lions, tigers, leopards, and elephants,
comprised 'living creatures as big as calves, but not of that kind,' and creatures between
a buffalo and a deer, which resembled neither; they had no horns, but legs like a cow, with
a fine head and neck, like a deer. The 'ill-gendered' beast is an admirable specimen of De
Foe's workmanship. It shows his moderation under most tempting circumstances. No dog-headed
men, no men with eyes in their breasts, or feet that serve as umbrellas, will suit him. He
must have something new, and yet probable; and he hits upon a very serviceable animal in this
mixture between a tiger and a leopard. Surely no one could refuse to honour such a moderate
draft upon his imagination. In short, De Foe, even in the wildest of regions, where his pencil
might have full play, sticks closely to the commonplace, and will not venture beyond the regions
of the easily conceivable.

The final element in which De Foe's curiosity might find a congenial food consisted of the
stories floating about contemporary affairs. He had talked with men who had fought in the Great
Rebellion, or even in the old German wars. He had himself been out with Monmouth, and taken
part in the fight at Sedgemoor. Doubtless that small experience of actual warfare gave additional
vivacity to his descriptions of battles, and was useful to him, as Gibbon declares that his
service with the militia was of some assistance in describing armies of a very different kind.
There is a period in history which has a peculiar interest for all of us. It is that which
lies upon the border-land between the past and present; which has gathered some romance from
the lapse of time, and yet is not so far off but that we have seen some of the actors, and
can distinctly realise the scenes in which they took part. Such to the present generation is
the era of the Revolutionary wars. 'Old men still creep among us' who lived through that period
of peril and excitement, and yet we are far enough removed from them to fancy that there were
giants in those days. When De Foe wrote his novels the battles of the great Civil War and the
calamities of the Plague were passing through this phase; and to them we owe two of his most
interesting books, the 'Memoirs of a Cavalier' and the 'History of the Plague.'

When such a man spins us a yarn the conditions of its being interesting are tolerably simple.
The first condition obviously is, that the plot must be a good one, and good in the sense that
a representation in dumb-show must be sufficiently exciting, without the necessity of any explanation
of motives. The novel of sentiment or passion or character would be altogether beyond his scope.
He will accumulate any number of facts and details; but they must be such as will speak for
themselves without the need of an interpreter. For this reason we do not imagine that 'Roxana,'
'Moll Flanders,' 'Colonel Jack,' or 'Captain Singleton' can fairly claim any higher interest
than that which belongs to the ordinary police report, given with infinite fulness and vivacity
of detail. In each of them there are one or two forcible situations. Roxana pursued by her
daughter, Moll Flanders in prison, and Colonel Jack as a young boy of the streets, are powerful
fragments, and well adapted for his peculiar method. He goes on heaping up little significant
facts, till we are able to realise the situation powerfully, and we may then supply the sentiment
for ourselves. But he never seems to know his own strength. He gives us at equal length, and
with the utmost plain-speaking, the details of a number of other positions, which are neither
interesting nor edifying. He is decent or coarse, just as he is dull or amusing, without knowing
the difference. The details about the different connections formed by Roxana and Moll Flanders
have no atom of sentiment, and are about as wearisome as the journal of a specially heartless
lady of the same character would be at the present day. He has been praised for never gilding
objectionable objects, or making vice attractive. To all appearance, he would have been totally
unable to set about it. He has only one mode of telling a story, and he follows the thread
of his narrative into the back-slums of London, or lodging-houses of doubtful character, or
respectable places of trade, with the same equanimity, at a good steady jog-trot of narrative.
The absence of any passion or sentiment deprives such places of the one possible source of
interest; and we must confess that two-thirds of each of these novels are deadly dull; the
remainder, though exhibiting specimens of his genuine power, is not far enough from the commonplace
to be specially attractive. In short, the merit of De Foe's narrative bears a direct proportion
to the intrinsic merit of a plain statement of the facts; and, in the novels already mentioned,
as there is nothing very surprising, certainly nothing unique, about the story, his treatment
cannot raise it above a very moderate level.

Above these stories comes De Foe's best fragment of fictitious history.[1] The 'Memoirs of
a Cavalier' is a very amusing book, though it is less fiction than history, interspersed with
a few personal anecdotes. In it there are some exquisite little bits of genuine Defoe. The
Cavalier tells us, with such admirable frankness, that he once left the army a day or two before
a battle, in order to visit some relatives at Bath, and excuses himself so modestly for his
apparent neglect of military duty, that we cannot refuse to believe in him. A novelist, we
say, would have certainly taken us to the battle, or would, at least, have given his hero a
more heroic excuse. The character, too, of the old soldier, who has served under Gustavus Adolphus,
who is disgusted with the raw English levies, still more disgusted with the interference of
parsons, and who has a respect for his opponents--especially Sir Thomas Fairfax--which is compounded
partly of English love of fair play, and partly of the indifference of a professional officer--is
better supported than most of De Foe's personages. An excellent Dugald Dalgetty touch is his
constant anxiety to impress upon the Royalist commanders the importance of a particular trick
which he has learned abroad of mixing foot soldiers with the cavalry. We must leave him, however,
to say a few words upon the 'History of the Plague,' which seems to come next in merit to 'Robinson
Crusoe.' Here De Foe has to deal with a story of such intrinsically tragic interest that all
his details become affecting. It needs no commentary to interpret the meaning of the terrible
anecdotes, many of which are doubtless founded on fact. There is the strange superstitious
element brought out by the horror of the sudden visitation. The supposed writer hesitates as
to leaving the doomed city. He is decided to stay at last by opening the Bible at random and
coming upon the text, 'He shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome
pestilence.' He watches the comets: the one which appeared before the Plague was 'of a dull,
languid colour, and its motion heavy, solemn, and slow;' the other, which preceded the Great
Fire, was 'bright and sparkling, and its motion swift and furious.' Old women, he says, believed
in them, especially 'the hypochondriac part of the other sex,' who might, he thinks, be called
old women too. Still he half-believes himself, especially when the second appears. He does
not believe that the breath of the plague-stricken upon a glass would leave shapes of 'dragons,
snakes, and devils, horrible to behold;' but he does believe that if they breathed on a bird
they would kill it, or 'at least make its eggs rotten.' However, he admits that no experiments
were tried. Then we have the hideous, and sometimes horribly grotesque, incidents. There is
the poor naked creature, who runs up and down, exclaiming continually, 'Oh, the great and the
dreadful God!' but would say nothing else, and speak to no one. There is the woman who suddenly
opens a window and 'calls out, "Death, death, death!" in a most inimitable tone, which struck
me with horror and chillness in the very blood.' There is the man who, with death in his face,
opens the door to a young apprentice sent to ask him for money: 'Very well, child,' says the
living ghost; 'go to Cripplegate Church, and bid them ring the bell for me;' and with those
words shuts the door, goes upstairs, and dies. Then we have the horrors of the dead-cart, and
the unlucky piper who was carried off by mistake. De Foe, with his usual ingenuity, corrects
the inaccurate versions of the story, and says that the piper was not blind, but only old and
silly; and that he does not believe that, as 'the story goes,' he set up his pipes while in
the cart. After this we cannot refuse to admit that he was really carried off and all but buried.
Another device for cheating us into acceptance of his story is the ingenious way in which he
imitates the occasional lapses of memory of a genuine narrator, and admits that he does not
precisely recollect certain details; and still better is the conscientious eagerness with which
he distinguishes between the occurrences of which he was an eye-witness and those which he
only knew by hearsay.

This book, more than any of the others, shows a skill in selecting telling incidents. We are
sometimes in doubt whether the particular details which occur in other stories are not put
in rather by good luck than from a due perception of their value. He thus resembles a savage,
who is as much pleased with a glass bead as with a piece of gold; but in the 'History of the
Plague' every detail goes straight to the mark. At one point he cannot help diverging into
the story of three poor men who escape into the fields, and giving us, with his usual relish,
all their rambling conversations by the way. For the most part, however, he is less diffusive
and more pointed than usual; the greatness of the calamity seems to have given more intensity
to his style; and it leaves all the impression of a genuine narrative, told by one who has,
as it were, just escaped from the valley of the shadow of death, with the awe still upon him,
and every terrible sight and sound fresh in his memory. The amazing truthfulness of the style
is here in its proper place; we wish to be brought as near as may be to the facts; we want
good realistic painting more than fine sentiment. The story reminds us of certain ghastly photographs
published during the American War, which had been taken on the field of battle. They gave a
more forcible impression of the horrors of war than the most thrilling pictures drawn from
the fancy. In such cases we only wish the narrator to stand as much as possible on one side,
and just draw up a bit of the curtain which conceals his gallery of horrors.

It is time, however, to say enough of 'Robinson Crusoe' to justify its traditional superiority
to De Foe's other writings. The charm, as some critics say, is difficult to analyse; and I
do not profess to demonstrate mathematically that it must necessarily be, what it is, the most
fascinating boy's book ever written, and one which older critics may study with delight. The
most obvious advantage over the secondary novels lies in the unique situation. Lamb, in the
passage from which I have quoted, gracefully evades this point. 'Are there no solitudes,' he
says, 'out of the cave and the desert? or cannot the heart, in the midst of crowds, feel frightfully
alone?' Singleton, he suggests, is alone with pirates less merciful than the howling monsters,
the devilish serpents, and ill-gendered creatures of De Foe's deserts. Colonel Jack is alone
amidst the London thieves when he goes to bury his treasures in the hollow tree. This is prettily
said; but it suggests rather what another writer might have made of De Foe's heroes, than what
De Foe made of them himself. Singleton, it is true, is alone amongst the pirates, but he takes
to them as naturally as a fish takes to the water, and, indeed, finds them a good, honest,
respectable, stupid sort of people. They stick by him and he by them, and we are never made
to feel the real horrors of his position. Colonel Jack might, in other hands, have become an
Oliver Twist, less real perhaps than De Foe has made him, but infinitely more pathetic. De
Foe tells us of his unpleasant sleeping-places; and his occasional fears of the gallows; but
of the supposed mental struggles, of the awful solitude of soul, we hear nothing. How can we
sympathise very deeply with a young gentleman whose recollections run chiefly upon the exact
numbers of shillings and pence captured by himself and his pocket-picking 'pals'? Similarly
Robinson Crusoe dwells but little upon the horrors of his position, and when he does is apt
to get extremely prosy. We fancy that he could never have been in want of a solid sermon on
Sunday, however much he may have missed the church-going bell. But in 'Robinson Crusoe,' as
in the 'History of the Plague,' the story speaks for itself. To explain the horrors of living
among thieves, we must have some picture of internal struggles, of a sense of honour opposed
to temptation, and a pure mind in danger of contamination. De Foe's extremely straightforward
and prosaic view of life prevents him from setting any such sentimental trials before us; the
lad avoids the gallows, and in time becomes the honest master of a good plantation; and there's
enough. But the horrors of abandonment on a desert island can be appreciated by the simplest
sailor or schoolboy. The main thing is to bring out the situation plainly and forcibly, to
tell us of the difficulties of making pots and pans, of catching goats and sowing corn, and
of avoiding audacious cannibals. This task De Foe performs with unequalled spirit and vivacity.
In his first discovery of a new art he shows the freshness so often conspicuous in first novels.
The scenery was just that which had peculiar charms for his fancy; it was one of those half-true
legends of which he had heard strange stories from seafaring men, and possibly from the acquaintances
of his hero himself. He brings out the shrewd vigorous character of the Englishman thrown upon
his own resources with evident enjoyment of his task. Indeed, De Foe tells us very emphatically
that in Robinson Crusoe he saw a kind of allegory of his own fate. He had suffered from solitude
of soul. Confinement in his prison is represented in the book by confinement in an island;
and even a particular incident, here and there, such as the fright he receives one night from
something in his bed, 'was word for word a history of what happened.' In other words, this
novel too, like many of the best ever written, has in it the autobiographical element which
makes a man speak from greater depths of feeling than in a purely imaginary story.

It would indeed be easy to show that the story, though in one sense marvellously like truth,
is singularly wanting as a psychological study. Friday is no real savage, but a good English
servant without plush. He says 'muchee' and 'speakee,' but he becomes at once a civilised being,
and in his first conversation puzzles Crusoe terribly by that awkward theological question,
why God did not kill the devil--for characteristically enough Crusoe's first lesson includes
a little instruction upon the enemy of mankind. He found, however, that it was 'not so easy
to imprint right notions in Friday's mind about the devil, as it was about the being of a God.'
This is comparatively a trifle; but Crusoe himself is all but impossible. Steele, indeed, gives
an account of Selkirk, from which he infers that 'this plain man's story is a memorable example
that he is happiest who confines his wants to natural necessities;' but the facts do not warrant
this pet doctrine of an old-fashioned school. Selkirk's state of mind may be inferred from
two or three facts. He had almost forgotten to talk; he had learnt to catch goats by hunting
them on foot; and he had acquired the exceedingly difficult art of making fire by rubbing two
sticks. In other words, his whole mind was absorbed in providing a few physical necessities,
and he was rapidly becoming a savage--for a man who can't speak and can make fire is very near
the Australian. We may infer, what is probable from other cases, that a man living fifteen
years by himself, like Crusoe, would either go mad or sink into the semi-savage state. De Foe
really describes a man in prison, not in solitary confinement. We should not be so pedantic
as to call for accuracy in such matters; but the difference between the fiction and what we
believe would have been the reality is significant. De Foe, even in 'Robinson Crusoe,' gives
a very inadequate picture of the mental torments to which his hero is exposed. He is frightened
by a parrot calling him by name, and by the strangely picturesque incident of the footmark
on the sand; but, on the whole, he takes his imprisonment with preternatural stolidity. His
stay on the island produces the same state of mind as might be due to a dull Sunday in Scotland.
For this reason, the want of power in describing emotion as compared with the amazing power
of describing facts, 'Robinson Crusoe' is a book for boys rather than men, and, as Lamb says,
for the kitchen rather than for higher circles. It falls short of any high intellectual interest.
When we leave the striking situation and get to the second part, with the Spaniards and Will
Atkins talking natural theology to his wife, it sinks to the level of the secondary stories.
But for people who are not too proud to take a rather low order of amusement 'Robinson Crusoe'
will always be one of the most charming of books. We have the romantic and adventurous incidents
upon which the most unflinching realism can be set to work without danger of vulgarity. Here
is precisely the story suited to De Foe's strength and weakness. He is forced to be artistic
in spite of himself. He cannot lose the thread of the narrative and break it into disjointed
fragments, for the limits of the island confine him as well as his hero. He cannot tire us
with details, for all the details of such a story are interesting; it is made up of petty incidents,
as much as the life of a prisoner reduced to taming flies, or making saws out of penknives.
The island does as well as the Bastille for making trifles valuable to the sufferer and to
us. The facts tell the story of themselves, without any demand for romantic power to press
them home to us; and the efforts to give an air of authenticity to the story, which sometimes
make us smile, and sometimes rather bore us, in other novels are all to the purpose; for there
is a real point in putting such a story in the mouth of the sufferer, and in giving us for
the time an illusory belief in his reality. It is one of the exceptional cases in which the
poetical aspect of a position is brought out best by the most prosaic accuracy of detail; and
we imagine that Robinson Crusoe's island, with all his small household torments, will always
be more impressive than the more gorgeously coloured island of Enoch Arden. When we add that
the whole book shows the freshness of a writer employed on his first novel--though at the mature
age of fifty-eight; seeing in it an allegory of his own experience embodied in the scenes which
most interested his imagination, we see some reasons why 'Robinson Crusoe' should hold a distinct
rank by itself amongst his works. As De Foe was a man of very powerful but very limited imagination--able
to see certain aspects of things with extraordinary distinctness, but little able to rise above
them--even his greatest book shows his weakness, and scarcely satisfies a grown-up man with
a taste for high art. In revenge, it ought, according to Rousseau, to be for a time the whole
library of a boy, chiefly, it seems, to teach him that the stock of an ironmonger is better
than that of a jeweller. We may agree in the conclusion without caring about the reason; and
to have pleased all the boys in Europe for near a hundred and fifty years is, after all, a
remarkable feat.

One remark must be added, which scarcely seems to have been sufficiently noticed by Defoe's
critics. He cannot be understood unless we remember that he was primarily and essentially a
journalist, and that even his novels are part of his journalism. He was a pioneer in the art
of newspaper writing, and anticipated with singular acuteness many later developments of his
occupation. The nearest parallel to him is Cobbett, who wrote still better English, though
he could hardly have written a 'Robinson Crusoe.' Defoe, like Cobbett, was a sturdy middle-class
Englishman, and each was in his time the most effective advocate of the political views of
his class. De Foe represented the Whiggism, not of the great 'junto' or aristocratic ring,
but of the dissenters and tradesmen whose prejudices the junto had to turn to account. He would
have stood by Chatham in the time of Wilkes and of the American War; he would have demanded
parliamentary reform in the time of Brougham and Bentham, and he would have been a follower
of the Manchester school in the time of Bright and Cobden. We all know the type, and have made
up our minds as to its merits. When De Foe came to be a subject of biography in this century,
he was of course praised for his enlightenment by men of congenial opinions. He was held up
as a model politician, not only for his creed but for his independence. The revelations of
his last biographer, Mr. Lee, showed unfortunately that considerable deductions must be made
from the independence. He was, as we now know, in the pay of Government for many years, while
boasting of his perfect purity; he was transferred, like a mere dependent, from the Whigs to
the Tories and back again. In the reign of George I. he consented to abandon his character
in order to act as a spy upon unlucky Jacobite colleagues. It is to the credit of Harley's
acuteness that he was the first English minister to make a systematic use of the press and
was the patron both of Swift and De Foe. But to use the press was then to make a mere tool
of the author. De Foe was a journalist, living, and supporting a family, by his pen, in the
days when a journalist had to choose between the pillory and dependence. He soon had enough
of the pillory and preferred to do very dirty services for his employer. Other journalists,
I fear, since his day have consented to serve masters whom in their hearts they disapproved.
It may, I think, be fairly said on behalf of De Foe that in the main he worked for causes of
which he really approved; that he never sacrificed the opinions to which he was most deeply
attached; that his morality was, at worst, above that of many contemporary politicians; and
that, in short, he had a conscience, though he could not afford to obey it implicitly. He says
himself, and I think the statement has its pathetic side, that he made a kind of compromise
with that awkward instinct. He praised those acts only of the Government which he really approved,
though he could not afford to denounce those from which he differed. Undoubtedly, as many respectable
moralists have told us, the man who endeavours to draw such lines will get into difficulties
and probably emerge with a character not a little soiled in the process. But after all as things
go, it is something to find that a journalist has really a conscience, even though his conscience
be a little too open to solid arguments. He was still capable of blushing. Let us be thankful
that in these days our journalists are too high-minded to be ever required to blush. Here,
however, I have only to speak of the effect of De Foe's position upon his fictions. He had
early begun to try other than political modes of journalism. His account of the great storm
of 1703 was one of his first attempts as a reporter; and it is characteristic that, as he was
in prison at the time, he had already to report things seen only by the eye of faith. He tried
at an early period to give variety to his 'Review' by some of the 'social' articles which afterwards
became the staple of the 'Tatler' and 'Spectator.' When, after the death of Queen Anne, there
was a political lull he struck out new paths. It was then that he wrote lives of highwaymen
and dissenting divines, and that he patched up any narratives which he could get hold of, and
gave them the shape of authentic historical documents. He discovered the great art of interviewing,
and one of his performances might still pass for a masterpiece. Jack Sheppard, when already
in the cart beneath the gallows, gave a paper to a bystander, of which the life published by
De Foe on the following day professed to be a reproduction. Nothing that could be turned into
copy for the newspaper or the sixpenny pamphlet of the day came amiss to this forerunner of
journalistic enterprise. This is the true explanation of 'Robinson Crusoe' and its successors.
'Robinson Crusoe,' in fact, is simply an application on a larger scale of the device which
he was practising every day. It is purely and simply a masterly bit of journalism. It affects
to be a true story, as, of course, every story in a newspaper affects to be true; though De
Foe had made the not very remote discovery that it is often easier to invent the facts than
to investigate them. He is simply a reporter minus the veracity. Like any other reporter, he
assumes that the interest of his story depends obviously and entirely upon its verisimilitude.
He relates the adventures of the genuine Alexander Selkirk, only elaborated into more detail,
just as a modern reporter might give us an account of Mr. Stanley's African expedition if Mr.
Stanley had been unable to do so for himself. He is always in the attitude of mind of the newspaper
correspondent, who has been interviewing the hero of an interesting story and ventures at most
a little safe embroidery. This explains a remark made by Dickens, who complained that the account
of Friday's death showed an 'utter want of tenderness and sentiment,' and says somewhere that
'Robinson Crusoe' is the only great novel which never moves either to laughter or to tears.
The creator of Oliver Twist and Little Nell was naturally scandalised by De Foe's dry and matter-of-fact
narrative. But De Foe had never approached the conception of his art which afterwards became
familiar. He had nothing to do with sentiment or psychology; those elements of interest came
in with Richardson and Fielding; he was simply telling a true story and leaving his readers
to feel what they pleased. It never even occurred to him, more than it occurs to the ordinary
reporter, to analyse character or describe scenery or work up sentiment. He was simply a narrator
of plain facts. He left poetry and reflection to Mr. Pope or Mr. Addison, as your straightforward
annalist in a newspaper has no thoughts of rivalling Lord Tennyson or Mr. Froude. His narratives
were fictitious only in the sense that the facts did not happen; but that trifling circumstance
was to make no difference to the mode of writing them. The poetical element would have been
as much out of place as it would have been in a merchant's ledger. He could not, indeed, help
introducing a little moralising, for he was a typical English middle-class dissenter. Some
of his simple-minded commentators have even given him credit, upon the strength of such passages,
for lofty moral purpose. They fancy that his lives of criminals, real or imaginary, were intended
to be tracts showing that vice leads to the gallows. No doubt, De Foe had the same kind of
solid homespun morality as Hogarth, for example, which was not in its way a bad thing. But
one need not be very cynical to believe that his real object in writing such books was to produce
something that would sell, and that in the main he was neither more nor less moral than the
last newspaper writer who has told us the story of a sensational murder.

De Foe, therefore, may be said to have stumbled almost unconsciously into novel-writing. He
was merely aiming at true stories, which happened not to be true. But accidentally, or rather
unconsciously, he could not help presenting us with a type of curious interest; for he necessarily
described himself and the readers whose tastes he understood and shared so thoroughly. His
statement that 'Robinson Crusoe' was a kind of allegory was truer than he knew. In 'Robinson
Crusoe' is De Foe, and more than De Foe, for he is the typical Englishman of his time. He is
the broad-shouldered, beef-eating John Bull, who has been shouldering his way through the world
ever since. Drop him in a desert island, and he is just as sturdy and self-composed as if he
were in Cheapside. Instead of shrieking or writing poetry, becoming a wild hunter or a religious
hermit, he calmly sets about building a house and making pottery and laying out a farm. He
does not accommodate himself to his surroundings; they have got to accommodate themselves to
him. He meets a savage and at once annexes him, and preaches him such a sermon as he had heard
from the exemplary Dr. Doddridge. Cannibals come to make a meal of him, and he calmly stamps
them out with the means provided by civilisation. Long years of solitude produce no sort of
effect upon him morally or mentally. He comes home as he went out, a solid keen tradesman,
having, somehow or other, plenty of money in his pockets, and ready to undertake similar risks
in the hope of making a little more. He has taken his own atmosphere with him to the remotest
quarters. Wherever he has set down his solid foot, he has taken permanent possession of the
country. The ancient religions of the primæval East or the quaint beliefs of savage tribes
make no particular impression upon him, except a passing spasm of disgust at anybody having
different superstitions from his own; and, being in the main a good-natured animal in a stolid
way of his own, he is able to make use even of popish priests if they will help to found a
new market for his commerce. The portrait is not the less effective because the artist was
so far from intending it that he could not even conceive of anybody being differently constituted
from himself. It shows us all the more vividly what was the manner of man represented by the
stalwart Englishman of the day; what were the men who were building up vast systems of commerce
and manufacture; shoving their intrusive persons into every quarter of the globe; evolving
a great empire out of a few factories in the East; winning the American continent for the dominant
English race; sweeping up Australia by the way as a convenient settlement for convicts; stamping
firmly and decisively on all toes that got in their way; blundering enormously and preposterously,
and yet always coming out steadily planted on their feet; eating roast beef and plum-pudding;
drinking rum in the tropics; singing 'God Save the King' and intoning Watts's hymns under the
nose of ancient dynasties and prehistoric priesthoods; managing always to get their own way,
to force a reluctant world to take note of them as a great if rather disagreeable fact, and
making it probable that, in long ages to come, the English of 'Robinson Crusoe' will be the
native language of inhabitants of every region under the sun.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Defoe may have had some materials for this story; but there seems to be little doubt that
it is substantially his own.

RICHARDSON'S NOVELS

The literary artifice, so often patronised by Lord Macaulay of describing a character by a
series of paradoxes, is of course, in one sense, a mere artifice. It is easy enough to make
a dark grey black and a light grey white, and to bring the two into unnatural proximity. But
it rests also upon the principle which is more of a platitude than a paradox, that our chief
faults often lie close to our chief merits. The greatest man is perhaps one who is so equably
developed that he has the strongest faculties in the most perfect equilibrium, and is apt to
be somewhat uninteresting to the rest of mankind. The man of lower eminence has some one or
more faculties developed out of all proportion to the rest, with the natural result of occasionally
overbalancing him. Extraordinary memories with weak logical faculties, wonderful imaginative
sensibility with a complete absence of self-control, and other defective conformations of mind,
supply the raw materials for a luminary of the second order, and imply a predisposition to
certain faults, which are natural complements to the conspicuous merits.

Such reflections naturally occur in speaking of one of our greatest literary reputations, whose
popularity is almost in an inverse ratio to his celebrity. Every one knows the names of Sir
Charles Grandison and Clarissa Harlowe. They are amongst the established types which serve
to point a paragraph; but the volumes in which they are described remain for the most part
in undisturbed repose, sleeping peacefully amongst Charles Lamb's biblia a-biblia, books which
are no books, or, as he explains, those books 'which no gentleman's library should be without.'
They never enjoy the honours of cheap reprints; the modern reader shudders at a novel in eight
volumes, and declines to dig for amusement in so profound a mine; when some bold inquirer dips
into their pages he generally fancies that the sleep of years has been somehow absorbed into
the paper; a certain soporific aroma exhales from the endless files of fictitious correspondence.
This contrast, however, between popularity and celebrity is not so rare as to deserve special
notice. Richardson's slumber may be deeper than that of most men of equal fame, but it is not
quite unprecedented. The string of paradoxes, which it would be easy to apply to Richardson,
would turn upon a different point. The odd thing is, not that so many people should have forgotten
him, but that he should have been remembered by people at first sight so unlike him. Here is
a man, we might say, whose special characteristic it was to be a milksop--who provoked Fielding
to a coarse hearty burst of ridicule--who was steeped in the incense of useless adulation from
a throng of middle-aged lady worshippers--who wrote his novels expressly to recommend little
unimpeachable moral maxims, as that evil courses lead to unhappy deaths, that ladies ought
to observe the laws of propriety, and generally that it is an excellent thing to be thoroughly
respectable; who lived an obscure life in a petty coterie in fourth-rate London society, and
was in no respect at a point of view more exalted than that of his companions. What greater
contrast can be imagined in its way than that between Richardson, with his second-rate eighteenth-century
priggishness and his twopenny-tract morality, and the modern school of French novelists, who
are certainly not prigs, and whose morality is by no means that of tracts? We might have expected
à priori that they would have summarily put him down, as a hopeless Philistine. Yet Richardson
was idolised by some of their best writers; Balzac, for example, and George Sand, speak of
him with reverence; and a writer who is, perhaps, as odd a contrast to Richardson as could
well be imagined--Alfred de Musset--calls 'Clarissa' le premier roman du monde. What is the
secret which enables the steady old printer, with his singular limitation to his own career
of time and space, to impose upon the Byronic Parisian of the next century? Amongst his contemporaries
Diderot expresses an almost fanatical admiration of Richardson for his purity and power, and
declares characteristically that he will place Richardson's works on the same shelf with those
of Moses, Homer, Euripides, and other favourite writers; he even goes so far as to excuse Clarissa's
belief in Christianity on the ground of her youthful innocence. To continue in the paradoxical
vein, we might ask how the quiet tradesman could create the character which has stood ever
since for a type of the fine gentleman of the period; or how from the most prosaic of centuries
should spring one of the most poetical of feminine ideals? We can hardly fancy a genuine hero
with a pigtail, or a heroine in a hoop and high-heeled shoes, nor believe that persons who
wore those articles of costume could possess any very exalted virtues. Perhaps our grandchildren
may have the same difficulty about the race which wears crinolines and chimney-pot hats.

It is a fact, however, that our grandfathers, in spite of their belief in pigtails, and in
Pope's poetry, and other matters that have gone out of fashion, had some very excellent qualities,
and even some genuine sentiment, in their compositions. Indeed, now that their peculiarities
have been finally packed away in various lumber-rooms, and the revolt against the old-fashioned
school of thought and manners has become triumphant instead of militant, we are beginning to
see the picturesque side of their character. They have gathered something of the halo that
comes with the lapse of years; and social habits that looked prosaic enough to contemporaries,
and to the generation which had to fight against them, have gained a touch of romance. Richardson's
characters wear a costume and speak a language which are indeed queer and old-fashioned, but
are now far enough removed from the present to have a certain piquancy; and it is becoming
easier to recognise the real genius which created them, as the active aversion to the forms
in which it was necessarily clothed tends to disappear. The wigs and the high-heeled shoes
are not without a certain pleasing quaintness; and when we have surmounted this cause of disgust,
we can see more plainly what was the real power which men of the most opposite schools in art
have recognised. Readers whose appetite for ancient fiction is insufficient to impel them to
a perusal of 'Clarissa' may yet find some amusement in turning over the curious collection
of letters published with a life by Mrs. Barbauld in 1804. Nowhere can we find a more vivid
picture of the social stratum to which Richardson belonged. We take a seat in the old gentleman's
shop, or drop in to take a dish of tea with him at North End, in Hammersmith. We learn to know
them almost as well as we know the literary circle of the next generation from Boswell or the
higher social sphere from Horace Walpole--and it is a pleasant relief, after reading the solemn
histories which recall the struggles of Walpole and Chesterfield and their like, to drop in
upon this quiet little coterie of homely commonplace people leading calm domestic lives and
amusingly unconscious of the political and intellectual storms which were raging outside. Richardson
himself was the typical industrious apprentice. He was the son of a London tradesman who had
witnessed with due horror the Popish machinations of James II. Richardson, born just after
the Revolution, had been apprenticed to a printer, married his master's daughter, set up a
fairly successful business, was master of the Stationers' Company in 1754, and was prosperous
enough to have his country box, first at North End and afterwards at Parson's Green. He never
learned any language but his own. He had taken to writing from his infancy; he composed little
stories of an edifying tendency and had written love-letters for young women of his acquaintance.
From his experience in these departments he acquired the skill which was afterwards displayed
in 'Pamela' and his two later and superior novels. We hear dimly of many domestic trials: of
the loss of children, some of whom had lived to be 'delightful prattlers,' of 'eleven affecting
deaths in two years.' Who were the eleven remains unknown. His sorrows have long passed into
oblivion, unless so far as the sentiment was transmuted into his writings. We do not know whether
it was from calamity or constitutional infirmity that he became a very nervous and tremulous
little man. He never dared to ride, but exercised himself on a 'chamber-horse,' one of which
apparently wooden animals he kept at each of his houses. For years he could not raise a glass
to his lips without help. His dread of altercations prevented him from going often among his
workmen. He gave his orders in writing that he might not have to bawl to a deaf foreman. He
gave up 'wine and flesh and fish.' He drew a capital portrait of himself, for the benefit of
a lady still unknown to him, who recognised him by its help at a distance of 'above three hundred
yards.' His description is minute enough: 'Short; rather plump than emaciated, notwithstanding
his complaints; about 5 foot 5 inches; fair wig, lightish cloth coat, all black besides; one
hand generally in his bosom, the other, a cane in it, which he leans upon under the skirts
of his coat usually, that it may imperceptibly serve him as a support when attacked by sudden
tremors or startings and dizziness, which too frequently attack him, but, thank God, not so
often as formerly; looking directly foreright, as passers by would imagine, but observing all
that stirs on either hand of him without moving his short neck; hardly ever turning back; of
a light-brown complexion; teeth not yet failing him; smoothish-faced and ruddy cheeked; at
some times looking to be about sixty-five, at others much younger' (really sixty); 'a regular
even pace stealing away ground rather than seeming to rid it; a grey eye, too often overclouded
by mistinesses from the head; by chance lively--very lively it will be if he have hopes of
seeing a lady whom he loves and honours; his eye always on the ladies; if they have very large
hoops, he looks down and supercilious and as if he would be thought wise, but perhaps the sillier
for that; as he approaches a lady his eye is never fixed first upon her face, but upon her
feet and thence he raises it up pretty quickly for a dull eye; and one would think (if we thought
him at all worthy of observation) that from her air and the last beheld (her face) he sets
her down in his mind as so and so, and then passes on to the next object he meets; only then
looking back, if he greatly likes or dislikes, as if he would see if the lady appear to be
all of a piece in the one light or the other.' After this admirable likeness we can appreciate
better the two coloured engravings in the letters. Richardson looks like a plump white mouse
in a wig, at once vivacious and timid. We see him in one picture toddling along the Pantiles
at Tunbridge-Wells, in the neighbourhood of the great Mr. Pitt and Speaker Onslow and the bigamous
Duchess of Kingston and Colley Cibber and the cracked and shrivelled-up Whiston and a (perhaps
not the famous) Mr. Johnson in company with a bishop. In the other, he is sitting in his parlour
with its stiff old-fashioned furniture and a glimpse into the garden, reading 'Sir Charles
Grandison' to the admirable Miss Mulso, afterwards Mrs. Chapone, and a small party, inclusive
of the artist, Miss Highmore, to whom we owe sincere gratitude for this peep into the past.
Richardson sits in his 'usual morning dress,' a kind of brown dressing-gown with a skull-cap
on his head, filling the chair with his plump little body, and raising one foot (or has the
artist found difficulties in planting both upon the ground?) to point his moral with an emphatic
stamp.

Many eminent men of his time were polite to Richardson after he had won fame at the mature
age of fifty. He was not the man to presume on his position. He was 'very shy of obtruding
himself on persons of condition.' He never rose like Pope, whose origin was not very dissimilar,
to speak to princes and ministers as an equal. He was always the obsequious and respectful
shopkeeper. The great Warburton wrote a letter to his 'good sir'--a phrase equivalent to the
two fingers of a dignified greeting--suggesting, in Pope's name and his own, a plan for continuing
'Pamela.' She was to be the ingenuous young person shocked at the conventionalities of good
society. Richardson sensibly declined a plan for which he was unfitted; and in 1747 Warburton
condescended to write a preface to 'Clarissa Harlowe,' pointing out (very superfluously!) the
nature of the intended moral. Warburton afterwards took offence at a passage in the same book
which he took to glance at Pope; and Richardson was on friendly terms with two authors, Edwards,
of the 'Canons of Criticism,' and Aaron Hill, who were among the multitudinous enemies of Warburton
and his patron Pope. Hill's letters in the correspondence are worth reading as illustrations
of the old moral of literary vanity. He expresses with unusual naïveté the doctrine, so pleasant
to the unsuccessful, that success means the reverse of merit. Pope's fame was due to personal
assiduities, and 'a certain bladdery swell of management.' It is already passing away. He does
not speak from jealousy, for nobody ever courted fame 'with less solicitude than I.' But for
all that, there will come a time! He knows it on a surer ground than vanity. Let us hope that
this little salve to self-esteem never lost its efficacy. Surely of all prayers the most injudicious
was that of Burns, that we might see ourselves as others see us. What would become of us? Richardson,
as we might expect, was highly esteemed by Young of the 'Night Thoughts,' and by Johnson, to
both of whom he seems to have given substantial proofs of friendship. He wrote the only number
of the 'Rambler' which had a good sale, and helped Johnson when under arrest for debt; Johnson
repaid him by the phrase, which long passed for the orthodox decision, that Richardson taught
the passions to move at the command of virtue. But the most delightful of Richardson's friends
was the irrepressible Colley Cibber. Mrs. Pilkington, a disreputable adventuress, faintly remembered
by her relations to Swift, describes Cibber's reception of the unpublished 'Clarissa.' 'The
dear gentleman did almost rave. When I told him that she (Clarissa) must die, he said G----
d---- him if she should, and that he should no longer believe Providence or eternal wisdom
or goodness governed the world if merit and innocence and beauty were to be so destroyed. "Nay,"
added he, "my mind is so hurt with the thought of her being violated, that were I to see her
in heaven, sitting on the knees of the blessed Virgin and crowned with glory, her sufferings
would still make me feel horror, horror distilled." These were his strongly emphatical impressions.'
Cibber's own letters are as lively as Mrs. Pilkington's report of his talk. 'The delicious
meal I made off Miss Byron on Sunday last,' he says, 'has given me an appetite for another
slice of her, off from the spit, before she is served up to the public table; if about five
o'clock to-morrow afternoon be not inconvenient, Mrs. Brown and I will come and nibble upon
a bit more of her! And we have grace after meat as well as before.' 'The devil take the insolent
goodness of your imagination!' exclaims the lively old buck, now past eighty, and as well preserved
as if he had never encountered Pope's 'scathing satire' (does satire ever 'scathe'?) or Fielding's
rough horseplay. One of Richardson's lady admirers saw Cibber flirting with fine ladies at
Tunbridge Wells in 1754 (he was born in 1671), and miserable when he was neglected for a moment
by the greatest belle in the society. He professed to be only seventy-seven!

Perhaps even Cibber was beaten in flattery by the 'minister of the gospel' who thought that
if some of Clarissa's letters had been found in the Bible they would have been regarded as
manifest proofs of divine inspiration. But the more delightful incense came from the circle
of admiring young ladies who called him their dear papa; who passed long days at his feet at
Parson's Green; allowed him to escape to his summer-house to add a letter to the growing volumes,
and after an early dinner persuaded him to read it aloud. Their eager discussions as to the
fate of the characters and the little points of morality which arose are continued in his gossiping
letters. When a child he had been the confidant of tender-hearted maidens, and now he became
a kind of spiritual director. He was, as Miss Collier said, the 'only champion and protector'
of her sex. Women, and surely they must be good judges, thought that he understood the feminine
heart, as their descendants afterwards attributed the same power to Balzac. The most attractive
of his feminine correspondents was Mrs. Klopstock, wife of the 'German Milton,' who tells her
only little love story with charming simplicity, and thus lays her homage at the feet of Richardson.
'Honoured sir, will you permit me to take this opportunity, in sending a letter to Dr. Young,
to address myself to you? It is very long that I wished to do it. Having finished your "Clarissa"
(oh, the heavenly book!), I would have prayed you to write the history of a manly Clarissa,
but I had not courage enough at that time. I should have it no more to-day, as this is only
my first English letter; but I have it! It may be because I am now Klopstock's wife (I believe
you know my husband by Mr. Hohorst), and then I was only the single young girl. You have since
written the manly Clarissa without my prayer; oh, you have done it to the great joy and thanks
of all your happy readers! Now you can write no more, you must write the history of an angel!'

Mrs. Klopstock died young; having had the happiness to find that Richardson did not resent
her intrusion, great author as he was. Another correspondent, Lady Bradshaigh, wife of a Lancashire
country gentleman, took precautions which show what a halo then surrounded the author in the
eyes of his countrywomen. It was worth while to be an author then! Lady Bradshaigh was a good
housewife, it seems, but, having no children, was able to devote some time to reading. She
obtained a portrait of Richardson, but altered the name to Dickenson, in order that no one
might suspect her of corresponding with an author. After reading the first four volumes of
'Clarissa' (which were separately published), she wrote under a feigned name to beg the author
to alter the impending catastrophe. She spoke as the mouthpiece of a 'multitude of admirers'
who desired to see Lovelace reformed and married to Clarissa. 'Sure you will think it worth
your while, sir, to save his soul!' she exclaims. Richardson was too good an artist to spoil
his tragedy; and was rewarded by an account of her emotions on reading the last volumes. She
laid the book down in agonies, took it up again, shed a flood of tears, and threw herself upon
her couch to compose her mind. Her husband, who was plodding after her, begged her to read
no more. But she had promised Richardson to finish the book. She nerved herself for the task;
her sleep was broken, she woke in tears during the night, and burst into tears at her meals.
Charmed by her delicious sufferings, she became Richardson's friend for life, though it was
long before she could muster up courage to meet him face to face.

Yet Lady Bradshaigh seems to have been a sensible woman, and shows vivacity and intelligence
in some of her discussions with Richardson. If he was not altogether spoilt by the flattery
of so many excellent women, we can only explain it by remembering that he did not become famous
till he was past fifty, and therefore past spoiling. One peculiarity, indeed, is rather unpleasant
in these letters. Richardson's worshippers evidently felt that their deity was jealous, and
made no scruple of offering the base sacrifice of abuse of rival celebrities. Richardson adopts
their tone; he is always gibing at Fielding. So another great writer came just in time to be
judged by Richardson. A bishop asked him, 'Who is this Yorick,' who has, it seems, been countenanced
by an 'ingenious dutchess.' Richardson briefly replies that the bishop cannot have looked into
the books, 'execrable I cannot but call them.' Their only merit is that they are 'too gross
to be inflaming.' The history of the mutual judgments upon each other of contemporary authors
would be more amusing than edifying.

Richardson should not have been so hard upon Sterne, for Sterne was in some degree following
Richardson's lead. 'What is the meaning,' asks Lady Bradshaigh (about 1749) 'of the word sentimental,
so much in vogue among the polite both in town and country? I hope that the philological dictionary
may tell us what was the first appearance of a word which, in this sense, marks an epoch in
literature, and, indeed, in much else. I find the word used in the old sense in 1752 in a pamphlet
upon 'Sentimental differences in point of faith,' that is, differences of sentiment or opinion.
When, a few years later, Sterne published his 'Sentimental Journey,' Wesley asks in his journal
what is the meaning of the new phrase, and observes (the illustration has lost its point) that
you might as well say continental. The appearance of the phrase coincides with the appearance
of the thing; for Richardson was the first sentimentalist. We may trace the same movement elsewhere,
though we need not here speculate upon the cause. Pope's 'Essay on Man' is the expression in
verse of the dominant theology of the Deists and their opponents, which was beginning to be
condemned as dry and frigid. A desire for something more 'sentimental' shows itself in Young's
'Night Thoughts,' in Hervey's 'Meditations,' and appears in the religious domain as Methodism.
The literary historian has to trace the rise of the same tendency in various places. In Germany,
as we see from Mrs. Klopstock's enthusiasm, the flame was only waiting for the spark. Goethe,
in his 'Wahrheit und Dichtung,' notices the influence of Richardson's novels in Germany. They
were among the predisposing causes of Wertherism. In France, as I have said, Richardson found
congenial hearers, and Clarissa's soul doubtless transmigrated into the heroine of the 'Nouvelle
Héloïse.' Even in stubborn England, where Fielding's masculine contempt for the whinings of
'Pamela' was more congenial, the students of Richardson were prepared to receive 'Ossian' with
enthusiasm, and to be ecstatic over 'Tristram Shandy.' That Richardson would have agreed with
Johnson in regarding Rousseau as fit only for a penal settlement, and that he actually considered
Sterne to be 'execrable,' does not relieve him of the responsibility or deprive him of the
glory. He is not the only writer who has helped to evoke a spirit which he would be the last
to sanction. When he encouraged his admirably proper young ladies to indulge in 'sentimentalism,'
he could not tell where so vague an impulse would ultimately land them. He was a sound Tory,
and an accepter of all established creeds. Sentimentalism with him was merely a delight in
cultivating the emotions, without any thought of consequences; or, later, of cultivating them
with the assumption that they would continue to move, as he bade them, 'at the command of virtue.'
Once set in motion, they chose to take paths of their own; they revolted against conventions,
even those which he held most sacred; and by degrees set up 'Nature' as an idol, and admired
the ingenuous savage instead of the respectable Clarissa, and denounced all corruption, including,
alas, the British constitution, and even the Thirty-nine Articles, and put themselves at the
disposal of all manner of revolutionary audacities. But the little printer was safe in his
grave, and knew not of what strange developments he had been the ignorant accomplice.

To return, however, it must be granted that Richardson's sympathy with women gives a remarkable
power to his works. Nothing is more rare than to find a great novelist who can satisfactorily
describe the opposite sex. Women's heroes are women in disguise, or mere lay-figures, walking
gentlemen who parade tolerably through their parts, but have no real vitality. On the other
hand, the heroines of male writers are for the most part unnaturally strained or quite colourless;
male hands are too heavy for the delicate work required. Milton could draw a majestic Satan,
but his Eve is no better than a good-managing housekeeper who knows her place. It is, therefore,
remarkable that Richardson's greatest triumph should be in describing a woman, and that most
of his feminine characters are more life-like and more delicately discriminated than his men.
Unluckily, his conspicuous faults result from the same cause. His moral prosings savour of
the endless gossip over a dish of chocolate in which his heroines delight; we can imagine the
applause with which his admiring feminine circle would receive his demonstration of the fact,
that adversity is harder to bear than prosperity, or the sentiment that 'a man of principle,
whose love is founded in reason, and whose object is mind rather than person, must make a worthy
woman happy.' These are admirable sentiments, but they savour of the serious tea-party. If
'Tom Jones' has about it an occasional suspicion of beer and pipes at the bar, 'Sir Charles
Grandison' recalls an indefinite consumption of tea and small-talk. In short, the feminine
part of Richardson's character has a little too much affinity to Mrs. Gamp--not that he would
ever be guilty of putting gin in his cup, but that he would have the same capacity for spinning
out indefinite twaddle of a superior kind. And, of course, he fell into the faults which beset
the members of mutual admiration societies in general, but especially those which consist chiefly
of women. Men who meet for purposes of mutual flattery become unnaturally solemn and priggish;
they never free themselves from the suspicion that the older members of the coterie may be
laughing at them behind their backs. But the flattery of women is so much more delicate, and
so much more sincere, that it is far more dangerous. It is a poultice which in time softens
the hardest outside. Richardson yielded as entirely as any curate exposed to a shower of slippers.
He evidently wrote under the impression that he was not merely an imaginative writer of the
highest order, but also a great moralist. He was reforming the world, putting down vice, sending
duelling out of fashion, and inculcating the lessons of the pulpit in a far more attractive
form. A modern novelist is half-ashamed of his art; he disclaims earnestly any serious purpose;
his highest aim is to amuse his readers, and his greatest boast that he amuses them by honourable
or at least by harmless means. There are, indeed, novelists who write to inculcate High-Church
or Low-Church principles, or to prove that society at large is out of joint; but a direct intention
to prove that men ought not to steal or get drunk, or commit any other atrocities, is generally
considered to be beside the novelist's function, and its introduction to be a fault of art.
Indeed, there is much to be said against it. In our youth we used to read a poem about a cruel
little boy who went out to fish and was punished by somehow becoming suspended by his chin
from a hook in the larder. It never produced much effect upon us, because we felt that the
accident was, to say the least, rather exceptional; at most, we fished on, and were careful
about the larder. The same principle applies to the poetic justice distributed by most novelists.
When Richardson kills off his villains by violent deaths, we know too well that many villains
live to a good old age, leave handsome fortunes, and are buried under the handsomest of tombstones,
with the most elegant of epitaphs. This very rough device for inculcating morality is of course
ineffectual, and produces some artistic blemishes. The direct exhortations to his readers to
be good are still more annoying; no human being can long endure a mixture of preaching and
story-telling. For Heaven's sake, we exclaim, tell us what happens to Clarissa, and don't stop
to prove that honesty is the best policy! In a wider sense, however, the seriousness of Richardson's
purpose is of high value. He is so keenly in earnest, so profoundly interested about his characters,
so determined to make us enter into their motives, that we cannot help being carried away;
if he never spares an opportunity of giving us a lecture, at least his zeal in setting forth
an example never flags for an instant. The effort to give us an ideally perfect character seems
to stimulate his imagination, and leads to a certain intensity of realisation which we are
apt to miss in the purposeless school of novelists. He is always, as it were, writing at high-pressure
and under a sense of responsibility.

The method which he adopts lends itself very conveniently to heighten this effect. Richardson's
feminine delight in letter-writing was, as we have seen, the immediate cause of his plunge
into authorship. Richardson's novels, indeed, are not so much novels put for convenience under
the form of letters, as letters expanded till they become novels. A genuine novelist who should
put his work into the unnatural shape of a correspondence would probably find it a very awkward
expedient; but Richardson gradually worked up to the novel from the conception of a collection
of letters; and his method, therefore, came spontaneously to him. He started from the plan
of writing letters to illustrate a certain point of morality, and to make them more effective
attributed them to a fictitious character. The result was the gigantic tract called 'Pamela'--distinctly
the worst of his works--of which it is enough to say at present that it succeeds neither in
being moral nor in amusing. It shows, however, a truly amazing fertility in a specially feminine
art. We have all suffered from the propensity of some female minds (the causes of which we
will not attempt to analyse) for pouring forth indefinite floods of correspondence. We know
the heartless fashion in which some ladies, even in these days of penny postage, will fill
a sheet of note-paper and proceed to cross their writing till the page becomes a chequer-work
of unintelligible hieroglyphics. But we may feel gratitude in looking back to the days when
time hung heavier, and letter-writing was a more serious business. The letters of those times
may recall the fearful and wonderful labours of tapestry in which ladies employed their needles
by way of killing time. The monuments of both kinds are a fearful indication of the ennui from
which the perpetrators must have suffered. We pity those who endured the toil as we pity the
prisoners whose patient ingenuity has carved a passage through a stone wall with a rusty nail.
Richardson's heroines, and his heroes too, for that matter, would have been portents at any
time. We will take an example at hazard. Miss Byron, on March 22, writes a letter of fourteen
pages (in the old collective edition). The same day she follows it up by two of six and of
twelve pages respectively. On the 23rd she leads off with a letter of eighteen pages, and another
of ten. On the 24th she gives us two, filling together thirty pages, at the end of which she
remarks that she is forced to lay down her pen, and then adds a postscript of six more; on
the 25th she confines herself to two pages; but after a Sunday's rest she makes another start
of equal vigour. In three days, therefore, she covers ninety-six pages. Two of the pages are
about equal to three in this volume. Consequently, in three days' correspondence, referring
to the events of the day, she would fill something like a hundred and forty-four of these pages--a
task the magnitude of which may be appreciated by anyone who will try the experiment. We should
say that she must have written for nearly eight hours a day, and are not surprised at her remark,
that she has on one occasion only managed two hours' sleep.

It would, of course, be the height of pedantry to dwell upon this, as though a fictitious personage
were to be in all respects bounded by the narrow limits of human capacity. It is not the object
of a really good novelist, nor does it come within the legitimate means of high art in any
department, to produce an actual illusion. Showmen in some foreign palaces call upon us to
admire paintings which we cannot distinguish from bas-reliefs; the deception is, of course,
a mere trick, and the paintings are simply childish. On the stage we do not require to believe
that the scenery is really what it imitates, and the attempt to introduce scraps of real life
is a clear proof of a low artistic aim. Similarly a novelist is not only justified in writing
so as to prove that his work is fictitious, but he almost necessarily hampers himself, to the
prejudice of his work, if he imposes upon himself the condition that his book shall be capable
of being mistaken for a genuine narrative. Every good novelist lets us into secrets about the
private thoughts of his characters which it would be impossible to obtain in real life. We
do not, therefore, blame Richardson because his characters have a power of writing which no
mortal could ever attain. His fault, indeed, is exactly the contrary. He very erroneously fancies
that he is bound to convince us of the possibility of all his machinery, and often produces
the very shock to our belief which he seeks to avoid. He is constantly trying to account by
elaborate devices for the fertile correspondence of his characters, when it is perfectly plain
that they are simply writing a novel. We should never have asked a question as to the authenticity
of the letters, if he did not force the question upon us; and no art can induce us for a moment
to accept the proffered illusion. For example, Miss Byron gives us a long account of conversations
between persons whom she did not know, which took place ten years before. It is much better
that the impossibility should be frankly accepted, on the clear ground that authors of novels,
and consequently their creatures, have the prerogative of omniscience. At least, the slightest
account of the way in which she came by the knowledge would be enough to satisfy us for all
purposes of fiction. Richardson is not content with this, and elaborately demonstrates that
she might have known a number of minute details which it is perfectly plain that a real Miss
Byron could never have known, and thus dashes into our faces an improbability which we should
have been quite content to pass unnoticed.

The method, however, of telling the story by the correspondence of the actors produces more
important effects. The hundred and forty-four pages in question are all devoted to the proceedings
of three days. They are filled, for the most part, with interminable conversations. The story
advances by a very few steps; but we know all that every one of the persons concerned has to
say about the matter. We discover what was Sir Charles Grandison's relation at a particular
time to a certain Italian lady, Clementina. We are told exactly what view he took of his own
position; what view Clementina took of it; what Miss Byron had to say to Sir Charles on the
subject, and what advice her relations bestowed upon Miss Byron. Then we have all the sentiments
of Sir Charles Grandison's sisters, and of his brothers-in-law, and of his reverend old tutor;
and the sentiments of all the Lady Clementina's family, and the incidental remarks of a number
of subordinate actors. In short, we see the characters all round in all their relations to
each other, in every possible variation and permutation; we are present at all the discussions
which take place before every step, and watch the gradual variation of all the phases of the
positions. We get the same sort of elaborate familiarity with every aspect of affairs that
we should receive from reading a blue-book full of some prolix diplomatic correspondence; indeed,
Sir Charles Grandison closely resembles such a blue-book, for the plot is carried on mainly
by elaborate negotiations between three different families, with proposals, and counter-proposals,
and amended proposals, and a final settlement of the very complicated business by a deliberate
signing of two different sets of articles. One of them, we need hardly say, is a marriage settlement;
the other is a definite treaty between the lady who is not married and her family, the discussion
of which occupies many pages. The extent to which we are drawn into the minutest details may
be inferred from the fact that nearly a volume is given to marrying Sir Charles Grandison to
Miss Byron, after all difficulties have been surmounted. We have at full length all the discussions
by which the day is fixed, and all the remarks of the unfortunate lovers of both parties, and
all the criticisms of both families, and finally an elaborate account of the ceremony, with
the names of the persons who went in the separate coaches, the dresses of the bride and bridesmaids,
and the sums which Sir Charles gave away to the village girls who strewed flowers on the pathway.
Surely the feminine element in Richardson's character was a little in excess.

The result of all this is a sort of Dutch painting of extraordinary minuteness. The art reminds
us of the patient labour of a line-engraver, who works for days at making out one little bit
of minute stippling and cross-hatching. The characters are displayed to us step by step and
line by line. We are gradually forced into familiarity with them by a process resembling that
by which we learn to know people in real life. We are treated to few set analyses or summary
descriptions, but by constantly reading their letters and listening to their talk we gradually
form an opinion of the actors. We see them, too, all round; instead of, as is usual in modern
novels, regarding them steadily from one point of view; we know what each person thinks of
everyone else, and what everyone else thinks of him; they are brought into a stereoscopic distinctness
by combining the different aspects of their character. Of course, a method of this kind involves
much labour on the part both of writer and reader. It is evident that Richardson did not think
of amusing a stray half-hour in a railway-carriage or in a club smoking-room; he counted upon
readers who would apply themselves seriously to a task, in the hope of improving their morals
as much as of gaining some harmless amusement. This theory is explicitly set forth in Warburton's
preface to 'Clarissa.' But it must also be said that, considering the cumbrous nature of the
process, the spirit with which it is applied is wonderful. Richardson's own interest in his
actors never flags. The distinct style of every correspondent is faithfully preserved with
singular vivacity. When we have read a few letters we are never at a loss to tell, from the
style alone of any short passage, who is the imaginary author. Consequently, readers who can
bear to have their amusement diluted, who are content with an imperceptibly slow development
of plot, and can watch without impatience the approach of a foreseen incident through a couple
of volumes, may find the prolixity less intolerable than might be expected. If they will be
content to skip when they are bored, even less patient students may be entertained with a series
of pictures of character and manners skilfully contrasted and brilliantly coloured, though
with a limited allowance of incident. Within his own sphere, no writer exceeds him in clearness
and delicacy of conception.

In another way, the machinery of a fictitious correspondence is rather troublesome. As the
author never appears in his own person, he is often obliged to trust his characters with trumpeting
their own virtues. Sir Charles Grandison has to tell us himself of his own virtuous deeds;
how he disarms ruffians who attack him in overwhelming numbers, and converts evil-doers by
impressive advice; and, still more awkwardly, he has to repeat the amazing compliments which
everybody is always paying him. Richardson does his best to evade the necessity; he couples
all his virtuous heroes with friendly confidants, who relieve the virtuous heroes of the tiresome
task of self-adulation; he supplies the heroes themselves with elaborate reasons for overcoming
their modesty, and makes them apologise profusely for the unwelcome task. Still, ingenious
as his expedients may be, and willing as we are to make allowance for the necessities of his
task, we cannot quite free ourselves from an unpleasant suspicion as to the simplicity of his
characters. 'Clarissa' is comparatively free from this fault, though Clarissa takes a questionable
pleasure in uttering the finest sentiments and posing herself as a model of virtue. But in
'Sir Charles Grandison' the fulsome interchange of flattery becomes offensive even in fiction.
The virtuous characters give and receive an amount of eulogy enough to turn the strongest stomachs.
How amiable is A! says B; how virtuous is C, and how marvellously witty is D! And then A, C,
and D go through the same performance, adding a proper compliment to B in place of the exclamation
appropriate to themselves. The only parallel in modern times is to be found at some of the
public dinners, where every man proposes his neighbour's health with a tacit understanding
that he is himself to furnish the text for a similar oration. But then at dinners people have
the excuse of a state of modified sobriety.

This fault is, as we have said, aggravated by the epistolary method. That method makes it necessary
that each person should display his or her own virtues, as in an exhibition of gymnastics the
performers walk round and show their muscles. But the fault lies a good deal deeper. Every
writer, consciously or unconsciously, puts himself into his novels, and exhibits his own character
even more distinctly than that of his heroes. And Richardson, the head of a little circle of
conscientious admirers of each other's virtues, could not but reproduce on a different scale
the tone of his own society. The Grandisons, and the families of Miss Byron and Clementina,
merely repeat a practice with which he was tolerably familiar at home; whilst his characters
represent to some extent the idealised Richardson himself;--and this leads us to the most essential
characteristic of his novels. The greatest woman in France, according to Napoleon's brutal
remark, was the woman who had the most children. In a different sense, the saying may pass
for truth. The greatest writer is the one who has produced the largest family of immortal children.
Those of whom it can be said that they have really added a new type to the fictitious world
are indeed few in number. Cervantes is in the front rank of all imaginative creators, because
he has given birth to Don Quixote and Sancho Panza. Richardson's literary representatives are
far indeed below these; but Richardson too may boast that, in his narrower sphere of thought,
he has invented two characters that have still a strong vitality. They show all the weaknesses
inseparable from the age and country of their origin. They are far inferior to the highest
ideals of the great poets of the world; they are cramped and deformed by the conventionalities
of their century and the narrow society in which they move and live. But for all that they
stir the emotions of a distant generation with power enough to show that their author must
have pierced below the surface into the deeper and more perennial springs of human passion.
These two characters are, of course, Clarissa and Sir Charles Grandison; and I may endeavour
shortly to analyse the sources of their enduring interest.

Sir Charles Grandison has passed into a proverb. When Carlyle calls Lafayette a Grandison-Cromwell,
he hits off one of those admirable nicknames which paint a character for us at once. Sir Charles
Grandison is the model fine gentleman of the eighteenth century--the master of correct deportment,
the unimpeachable representative of the old school. Richardson tells us with a certain naïveté
that he has been accused of describing an impossible character; that Sir Charles is a man absolutely
without a fault, or at least with faults visible only on a most microscopic observation. In
fact, the only fault to which Sir Charles himself pleads guilty, in seven volumes, is that
he once rather loses his temper. Two ruffians try to bully him in his own house, and even draw
their swords upon him. Sir Charles so far forgets himself as to draw his own sword, disarm
both of his opponents and turn them out of doors. He cannot forgive himself, he says, that
he has been 'provoked by two such men to violate the sanctity of his own house.' His only excuse
is, 'that there were two of them; and that tho' I drew, yet I had the command of myself so
far as only to defend myself, when I might have done with them what I pleased.' According to
Richardson, this venial offence is the worst blot on Sir Charles's character. We certainly
do not blame him for the attempt to draw an ideally perfect hero. It is a perfectly legitimate
aim in fiction, and the only question can be whether he has succeeded: for Richardson's own
commendation cannot be taken as quite sufficient, neither can we quite accept the ingenious
artifice by which all the secondary characters perform as decoy-birds to attract our admiration.
They do their very best to induce us to join in their hymns of praise. 'Grandison,' says a
Roman Catholic bishop, 'were he one of us, might expect canonisation.' 'How,' exclaims his
uncle, after a conversation with his paragon of a nephew, 'how shall I bear my own littleness?'
A party of reprobates about town have a long dispute with him, endeavouring to force him into
a duel. At the end of it one of them exclaims admiringly, 'Curse me, if I believe there is
such another man in the world!' 'I never saw a hero till now,' says another. 'I had rather
have Sir C. Grandison for my friend than the greatest prince on earth,' says a third. 'I had
rather,' replies his friend, 'be Sir C. Grandison for this one past hour than the Great Mogul
all my life.' And the general conclusion is, 'What poor toads are we!' 'This man shows us,'
as a lady declares, 'that goodness and greatness are synonymous words;' and when his sister
marries, she complains that her brother 'has long made all other men indifferent to her. Such
an infinite difference!' In the evening, according to custom, she dances a minuet with her
bridegroom, but whispers a friend that she would have performed better had she danced with
her brother.

The structure, however, of the story itself is the best illustration of Sir Charles's admirable
qualities. The plot is very simple. He rescues Miss Byron from an attempt at a forcible abduction.
Miss Byron, according to her friends, is the queen of her sex, and is amongst women what Sir
Charles is amongst men. Of course, they straightway fall in love. Sir Charles, however, shows
symptoms of a singular reserve, which is at last explained by the fact that he is already half-engaged
to a noble Italian lady, Clementina. He has promised, in fact, to marry her if certain objections
on the score of his country and religion can be surmounted. The interest lies chiefly in the
varying inclinations of the balance, at one moment favourable to Miss Byron, and at another
to the 'saint and angel' Clementina. When Miss Byron thinks that Sir Charles will be bound
in honour to marry Clementina, she begins to pine; 'she visibly falls away; and her fine complexion
fades;' her friends 'watch in silent love every turn of her mild and patient eye, every change
of her charming countenance; for they know too well to what to impute the malady which has
approached the best of hearts; they know that the cure cannot be within the art of the physician.'
When Clementina fears that the scruples of her relatives will separate her from Sir Charles,
she takes the still more decided step of going mad; and some of her madness would be very touching,
if it were not a trifle too much after the conventional pattern of the mad women in Sheridan's
'Critic.' Whilst these two ladies are breaking their hearts about Sir Charles they do justice
to each other's merits. Harriet will never be happy unless she knows that the admirable Clementina
has reconciled herself to the loss of her adored; when Clementina finds herself finally separated
from her lover, she sincerely implores Sir Charles to marry her more fortunate rival. Never
was there such a display of fine feeling and utter absence of jealousy. Meanwhile a lovely
ward of Sir Charles finds it necessary to her peace of mind to be separated from her guardian;
and another beautiful, but rather less admirable, Italian actually follows him to England to
persuade him to accept her hand. Four ladies--all of them patterns of physical, moral, and
intellectual excellence--are breaking their hearts; and though they are so excellent that they
overcome their natural jealousy, they can scarcely look upon any other man after having known
this model of all his sex. Indeed, every woman who approaches him falls desperately in love
with him, unless she is his sister or old enough to be his grandmother. The plot of the novel
depends upon an attraction for the fair sex which is apparently irresistible; and the men,
if they are virtuous, rejoice to sit admiringly at his feet, and if they are vicious retire
abashed from his presence, to entreat his good advice when they are upon their deathbeds.

All this is easy enough. A novelist can make his women fall in love with his hero as easily
as, with a stroke of the pen, he can endow him with fifty thousand a year, or bestow upon him
every virtue under heaven. Neither has he any difficulty in making him the finest dancer in
England, or giving him such marvellous skill with the small-sword that he can avoid the sin
of duelling by instantaneously disarming his most formidable opponents. The real question is,
whether he can animate this conglomerate of all conceivable virtues with a real human soul,
set him before us as a living and breathing reality, and make us feel that, if we had known
him, we too should have been ready to swell the full chorus of admiration. It is rather more
difficult to convey the impression which a perusal of his correspondence and conversation leaves
upon an unprejudiced mind. Does Sir Charles, when we come to know him intimately--for, with
the ample materials provided, we really seem to know him--fairly support the amazing burden
thrown upon him? Do we feel a certain disappointment when we meet the man whom all ladies love,
and in whom every gentleman confesses a superior nature.

Two anecdotes about Sir Charles may suggest the answer. Voltaire, we know, ridiculed the proud
English, who with the same scissors cut off the heads of their kings and the tails of their
horses. To this last weakness Sir Charles was superior. His horses, says Miss Byron, 'are not
docked; their tails are only tied up when they are on the road.' She would wish to find some
fault with him, but as she forcibly says, 'if he be of opinion that the tails of these noble
animals are not only a natural ornament, but of real use to defend them from the vexatious
insects that in summer are so apt to annoy them, how far from a dispraise is this humane consideration!'
The other anecdote is of a different kind. When Sir Charles goes to church he does not, like
some other gentlemen, bow low to the ladies of his acquaintance, and then to others of the
gentry. No! 'Sir Charles had first other devoirs to pay. He paid us his second compliments.'
From these two exemplary actions we must infer his whole character. It should have been inscribed
on his tombstone, 'He would not dock his horses' tails.' That is the most trifling details
of his conduct are regulated on the most serious considerations. He is one of those solemn
beings who can't shave themselves without implicitly asserting a great moral principle. He
finds sermons in his horses' tails; he could give an excellent reason for the quantity of lace
on his coat, which was due, it seems, to a sentiment of filial reverence; and he could not
fix his hour for dinner without an eye to the reformation of society. In short, he was a prig
of the first water; self-conscious to the last degree; and so crammed with little moral aphorisms
that they drop out of his mouth whenever he opens his lips. And then his religion is in admirable
keeping. It is intimately connected with the excellence of his deportment; and is, in fact,
merely the application of the laws of good society to the loftiest sphere of human duty. He
pays his second compliments to his lady, and his first to the object of his adoration. He very
properly gives the precedence to the being he professes to adore. As he carries his solemnity
into the pettiest trifles of life, so he considers religious duties to be simply the most important
part of social etiquette. He would shrink from blasphemy even more than from keeping on his
hat in the presence of ladies; but the respect which he owes in one case is of the same order
with that due in the other: it is only a degree more important.

We feel, indeed, a certain affection for Sir Charles Grandison. He is pompous and ceremonious
to an insufferable degree; but there is really some truth in his sister's assertion, that his
is the most delicate of human minds; through the cumbrous formalities of his century there
shines a certain quickness and sensibility; he even condescends to be lively after a stately
fashion, and to indulge in a little 'raillying,' only guarding himself rather too carefully
against unbecoming levity. Indeed, though a man of the world at the present day would be as
much astonished at his elaborate manners as at his laced coat and sword, he would admit that
Sir Charles was by no means wanting in tact; his talk is weighted with more elaborate formulæ
than we care to employ, but it is good vigorous conversation in the main, and, if rather overlaid
with sermonising, can at times be really amusing. His religion is not of a very exalted character;
he rises to no sublime heights of emotion, and would simply be puzzled by the fervours or the
doubts of a more modern generation. In short, it seems to be compounded of common-sense and
a regard for decorum--and those are not bad things in their way, though not the highest. He
is not a very ardent reformer; he doubts whether the poor should be taught to read, and is
very clear that everyone should be made to know his station; but still he talks with sense
and moderation, and even gets so far as to suggest the necessity of reformatories. He is not
very romantic, and displays an amount of self-command in judicially settling the claims of
the various ladies who are anxious to marry him, which is almost comic; he is perfectly ready
to marry the Italian lady, if she can surmount her religious scruples, though he is in love
with Miss Byron; and his mind is evidently in a pleasing state of equilibrium, so that he will
be happy with either dear charmer. Indeed, for so chivalric a gentleman, his view of love and
marriage is far less enthusiastic than we should now require. One of his benevolent actions,
which throws all his admirers into fits of eulogy, is to provide one of his uncles with a wife.
The gentleman is a peer, but has hitherto been of disreputable life. The lady, though of good
family and education, is above thirty, and her family have lost their estate. The match of
convenience which Sir Charles patches up between them has obvious prudential recommendations;
and of course it turns out admirably. But one is rather puzzled to know what special merits
Sir Charles can claim for bringing it to pass.

Such a hero as this may be worthy and respectable, but is not a very exalted ideal. Neither
do his circumstances increase our interest. It would be rather a curious subject of inquiry
why it should be so impossible to make a virtuous hero interesting in fiction. In real life,
the men who do heroic actions are certainly more attractive than the villains. Domestic affection,
patriotism, piety, and other good qualities are pleasant to contemplate in the world; why should
they be so often an unspeakable bore in novels? Principally, no doubt, because our conception
of a perfect man is apt to bring the negative qualities into too great prominence; we are asked
to admire men because they have not passions--not because they overcome them. But there are
further difficulties; for example, in a novel it is generally so easy to see what is wrong
and what is right--the right-hand path branches off so decidedly from the left, that we give
a man little credit for making the proper choice. Still more is it difficult to let us sufficiently
into a man's interior to let us see the struggle and the self-sacrifice which ought to stir
our sympathies. We witness the victories, but it is hard to make us feel the cost at which
they are won. Now, Richardson has, as we shall directly remark, overcome this difficulty to
a great extent in Clarissa; but in Sir Charles Grandison he has entirely shirked it; he has
made everything too plain and easy for his hero. 'I think I could be a good woman,' says Becky
Sharp, 'if I had five thousand a year,'--and the history of Sir Charles Grandison might have
suggested the remark. To be young, handsome, healthy, active, with a fine estate and a grand
old house; to be able, by your eloquence, to send a sinner into a fit (as Sir Charles did once);
to be the object of a devoted passion from three or four amiable, accomplished, and beautiful
women--each of whom has a fine fortune, and only begs you to throw your handkerchief towards
her, whilst she promises to bear no grudge if you throw it to her neighbour--all these are
favourable conditions for virtue--especially if you mean the virtues of being hospitable, generous,
a good landlord and husband, and in every walk of life thoroughly gentlemanlike in your behaviour.
But the whole design is rather too much in accordance with the device in enabling Sir Charles
to avoid duels by having a marvellous trick of disarming his adversaries. 'What on earth is
the use of my fighting with you,' says King Padella to Prince Giglio, 'if you have got a fairy
sword and a fairy horse?' And what merit is there in winning the battle of life, when you have
every single circumstance in your favour? We are more attracted by Fielding's rather questionable
hero, Captain Booth, though he does get into a sponging-house, and is anything but a strict
moralist, than by this prosperous young Sir Charles, rich with every gift the gods can give
him, and of whom the most we can say is that the possession of all those gifts, if it has made
him rather pompous and self-conscious, has not made him close-fisted or hard-hearted. Sir Charles,
then, represents a rather carnal ideal; he suggest to us those well-fed, almost beefy and corpulent
angels, whom the contemporary school of painters sometimes portray. No doubt they are angels,
for they have wings and are seated in the clouds; but there is nothing ethereal in their whole
nature. We have no love for asceticism; but a few hours on the column of St. Simon Stylites,
or a temporary diet of locusts and wild honey, might have purified Sir Charles's exuberant
self-satisfaction. For all this, he is not without a certain solid merit, and the persons by
whom he is surrounded--on whom we have not space to dwell--have a large share of the vivacity
which amuses us in the real men and women of their time. Their talk may not be equal to that
in Boswell's 'Johnson;' but it is animated and amusing, and they compose a gallery of portraits
which would look well in a solid red-brick mansion of the Georgian era.

We must, however, leave Sir Charles, to say a few words upon that which is Richardson's real
masterpiece, and which, in spite of a full share of the defects apparent in 'Grandison,' will
always command the admiration of persons who have courage enough to get through eight volumes
of correspondence. The characters of the little world in which the reader will pass his time
are in some cases the same who reappear in 'Grandison.' The lively Lady G. in the last is merely
a new version of Miss Howe in the former. Clarissa herself is Miss Byron under altered circumstances,
and receives from her friends the same shower of superlatives, whenever they have occasion
to touch upon her merits. Richardson's ideal lady is not at first sight more prepossessing
than his gentleman. After Clarissa's death, her friend Miss Howe writes a glowing panegyric
on her character. It will be enough to give the distribution of her time. To rest it seems
she allotted six hours only. Her first three morning hours were devoted to study and to writing
those terribly voluminous letters which, as one would have thought, must have consumed a still
longer period. Two hours more were given to domestic management; for, as Miss Howe explains,
'she was a perfect mistress of the four principal rules of arithmetic.' Five hours were spent
in music, drawing, and needlework, this last especially, and in conversation with the venerable
parson of the parish. Two hours she devoted to breakfast and dinner; and as it was hard to
restrict herself to this allowance, she occasionally gave one hour more to dinner-time conversation.
One hour more was spent in visiting the neighbouring poor, and the remaining four hours to
supper and conversation. These periods, it seems, were not fixed for every day; for she kept
a kind of running account, and permitted herself to have an occasional holiday by drawing upon
the reserved fund of the four hours for supper.

Setting aside the fearfully systematic nature of this arrangement--the stern determination
to live by rule and system--it must be admitted that Miss Harlowe was what in outworn phrase
was called a very 'superior' person. She would have made an excellent housekeeper, or even
a respectable governess. We feel a certain gratitude to her for devoting four hours to supper;
and, indeed, Richardson's characters are always well cared for in the victualling department.
They always take their solid three meals, with a liberal intercalation of dishes of tea and
chocolate. Miss Harlowe, we must add, knew Latin, although her quotations of classical authors
are generally taken from translations. Her successor, Miss Byron, was not allowed this accomplishment,
Richardson's doubts of its suitability to ladies having apparently gathered strength in the
interval. Notwithstanding this one audacious excursion into the regions of manly knowledge,
Miss Harlowe appears to us as, in the main, a healthy, sensible country girl, with sound sense,
the highest respect for decorum, and an exaggerated regard for constituted, especially paternal,
authority. We cannot expect, from her, any of the outbreaks against the laws of society customary
with George Sand's heroines. If she had changed places with Maggie Tulliver, she would have
accepted the society of the 'Mill on the Floss' with perfect contentment, respected all the
family of aunts and uncles, and never repined against the tyranny of her brother Tom. She would
have been conscious of no vague imaginative yearnings, nor have beaten herself against the
narrow bars of stolid custom. She would have laid up a vast store of linen, and walked thankfully
in the path chalked out for her. Certainly she would never have run away with Mr. Stephen Guest
without tyranny of a much more tangible kind than that which acts only through the finer spiritual
tissues. When Clarissa went off with Lovelace, it was not because she had unsatisfied aspirations
after a higher order of life, but because she had been locked up in her room, as a solitary
prisoner, and her family had tried to force her into marriage with a man whom she had excellent
reasons for hating and despising. The worst point about Clarissa is one which was keenly noticed
by Johnson. There is always something, he said, which she prefers to truth. She is a little
too anxious to keep up appearances, and we desire to see more of the natural woman.

Yet the long tragedy in which Clarissa is the victim is not the less affecting because the
torments are of an intelligible kind, and require no highly-strung sensibility to give them
keenness. The heroine is first bullied and then deserted by her family, cut off from the friends
who have a desire to help her, and handed over to the power of an unscrupulous libertine. When
she dies of a broken heart, the most callous and prosaic of readers must feel that it is the
only release possible for her. And in the gradual development of his plot, the slow accumulation
of horrors upon the head of a virtuous victim, Richardson shows the power which places him
in the front rank of novelists, and finds precisely the field in which his method is most effective
and its drawbacks least annoying. In the first place, in spite of his enormous prolixity, the
interest is throughout concentrated upon one figure. In 'Sir Charles Grandison' there are episodes
meant to illustrate the virtues of the 'next-to-divine man' which have nothing to do with the
main narrative. In 'Clarissa' every subordinate plot--and they abound--bears immediately upon
the central action of the story, and produces a constant alternation of hope and foreboding.
The last volumes, indeed, are dragged out in a way which is injurious in several respects.
Clarissa, to use Charles II.'s expression about himself, takes an unconscionable time about
dying. But until the climax is reached, we see the clouds steadily gathering, and yet with
an increasing hope that they may be suddenly cleared up. The only English novel which produces
a similar effect, and impresses us with the sense of an inexorable fate, slowly but steadily
approaching, is the 'Bride of Lammermoor'--in some respects the best and most artistic of Scott's
novels. Superior as is Scott's art in certain directions, we scarcely feel the same interest
in his chief characters, though there is the same unity of construction. We cannot feel for
the Master of Ravenswood the sympathy which Clarissa extorts. For in Clarissa's profound distress
we lose sight of the narrow round of respectabilities in which her earlier life is passed;
the petty pompousness, the intense propriety which annoy us in 'Sir Charles Grandison' disappear
or become pathetic. When people are dying of broken hearts we forget their little absurdities
of costume. A more powerful note is sounded, and the little superficial absurdities are forgotten.
We laugh at the first feminine description of her dress--a Brussels-lace cap, with sky-blue
ribbon, pale crimson-coloured paduasoy, with cuffs embroidered in a running pattern of violets
and their leaves; but we are more disposed to cry (if many novels have not exhausted all our
powers of weeping) when we come to the final scene. 'One faded cheek rested upon the good woman's
bosom, the kindly warmth of which had overspread it with a faint but charming flush; the other
paler and hollow, as if already iced over by death. Her hands, white as the lily, with her
meandering veins more transparently blue than ever I had seen even hers, hanging lifelessly,
one before her, the other grasped by the right hand of the kindly widow, whose tears bedewed
the sweet face which her motherly bosom supported, though unfelt by the fair sleeper; and either
insensibly to the good woman, or what she would not disturb her to wipe off or to change her
posture. Her aspect was sweetly calm and serene; and though she started now and then, yet her
sleep seemed easy; her breath indeed short and quick, but tolerably free, and not like that
of a dying person.' Allowing for the queer grammar, this is surely a touching and simple picture.
The epistolary method, though it has its dangers, lends itself well to heighten our interest.
Where the object is rather to appeal to our sympathies than to give elaborate analyses of character,
or complicated narratives of incident, it is as well to let the persons speak for themselves.
A hero cannot conveniently say, like Sir Charles Grandison, 'See how virtuous and brave and
modest I am;' nor is it easy to make a story clear when it has to be broken up and distributed
amongst people speaking from different points of view; it is hard to make the testimonies of
the different witnesses fit into each other neatly. But a cry of agony can come from no other
quarter so effectively as from the sufferer's own mouth. 'Clarissa Harlowe' is in fact one
long lamentation, passing gradually from a tone of indignant complaint to one of despair, and
rising at the end to Christian resignation. So prolonged a performance in every key of human
misery is indeed painful from its monotony; and we may admit that a limited selection from
the correspondence, passing through more rapid gradations, would be more effective. We might
be spared some of the elaborate speculations upon various phases of the affair which pass away
without any permanent effect. Richardson seems to be scarcely content even with drawing his
characters as large as life; he wishes to apply a magnifying-glass. Yet, even in this incessant
repetition there is a certain element of power. We are forced to drain every drop in the cup,
and to appreciate every ingredient which adds bitterness to its flavour. We are annoyed and
wearied at times; but as we read we not only wonder at the number of variations performed upon
one tune, but feel that he has succeeded in thoroughly forcing upon our minds, by incessant
hammering, the impression which he desires to produce. If the blows are not all very powerful,
each blow tells. There is something impressive in the intensity of purpose which keeps one
end in view through so elaborate a process, and the skill which forms such a multitudinous
variety of parts into one artistic whole. The proportions of this gigantic growth are preserved
with a skill which would be singular even in the normal scale; a respect in which most giants,
whether human or literary, are apt to break down.

To make the story complete, the plot should have been as effectively conceived as Clarissa
herself, and the other characters should be equally worthy of their position. Here there are
certain drawbacks. The plot, it might easily be shown, is utterly incredible. Richardson has
the greatest difficulty in preventing his heroine from escaping, and at times we must not look
too closely for fear of detecting the flimsy nature of her imaginary chains. There is, indeed,
no reason for looking closely; so long as the situations bring out the desired sentiment, we
may accept them for the nonce, without asking whether they could possibly have occurred. It
is of more importance to judge of the consistency of the chief agent in the persecution. Lovelace
is by far the most ambitious character that Richardson has attempted. To heap together a mass
of virtues, and christen the result Clarissa Harlowe or Charles Grandison, is comparatively
easy; but it is a harder task to compose a villain, who shall be by nature a devil, and yet
capable of imposing upon an angel. Some of Richardson's judicious critics declared that he
must have been himself a man of vicious life or he could never have described a libertine so
vividly. This is one of the smart sayings which are obviously the proper thing to say, but
which, notwithstanding, are little better than silly. Lovelace is evidently a fancy character--if
we may use the expression. He bears not a single mark of being painted from life, and is formed
by the simple process of putting together the most brilliant qualities which his creator could
devise to meet the occasion. We do not say that the result is psychologically impossible; for
it would be very rash to dogmatise on any such question. No one can say what strange amalgams
of virtue and vice may have sufficient stability to hold together during a journey through
this world. But it is plain that Lovelace is not a result of observation, but an almost fantastic
mixture of qualities intended to fit him for the difficult part he has to play. To exalt Clarissa,
for example, Lovelace's family are represented as all along earnestly desirous of a marriage
between them; and Lovelace has every conceivable motive, including the desire to avoid hanging,
for agreeing to the match. His refusal is unintelligible, and Richardson has to supply him
with a reason so absurd and so diabolical that we cannot believe in it; it reminds us of Hamlet's
objecting to killing his uncle whilst at prayers, on the ground that it would be sending him
straight to heaven. But we may, if we please, consider Hamlet's conceit as a mere pretext invented
to excuse his irresolution to himself; whereas Lovelace speculates so long and so seriously
upon the marriage, that we are bound to consider his far-fetched arguments as sincere. And
the supposition makes his wickedness gratuitous, if we believe in his sanity. Lovelace suffers,
again, from the same necessity which injures Sir Charles Grandison; as the virtuous hero has
to be always expatiating on his own virtues, the vicious hero has to boast of his own vices;
it is true that this is, in an artistic sense, the least repulsive habit of the two; for it
gives reason for hating not a hero but a villain; unluckily it is also a reason for refusing
to believe in his existence. The improbability of a thoroughpaced scoundrel writing daily elaborate
confessions of his criminality to a friend, even when the friend condemns him, expatiating
upon atrocities that deserved hanging, and justifying his vices on principle, is rather too
glaring to be admissible. And by another odd inconsistency, Lovelace is described as being
all the time a steady believer in eternal punishment and a rebuker of sceptics--Richardson
being apparently of opinion that infidelity would be too bad to be introduced upon the stage,
though a vice might be described in detail. A man who has broken through all moral laws might
be allowed a little free-thinking. We might add that Lovelace, in spite of the cleverness attributed
to him, is really a most imbecile schemer. The first principle of a villain should be to tell
as few lies as will serve his purpose; but Lovelace invents such elaborate and complicated
plots, presenting so many chances of detection and introducing so many persons into his secrets,
that it is evident that in real life he would have broken down in a week.

Granting the high improbability of Lovelace as a real living human being, it must be admitted
that he has every merit but that of existence. The letters which he writes are the most animated
in the voluminous correspondence. The respectable domestic old printer, who boasted of the
perfect purity of his own life, seems to have thrown himself with special gusto into the character
of a heartless reprobate. He must have felt a certain piquancy in writing down the most atrocious
sentiments in his own respectable parlour. He would show that the quiet humdrum old tradesman
could be on paper as sprightly and audacious as the most profligate man about town. As quiet
people are apt to do, he probably exaggerated the enormities which such men would openly avow;
he fancied that the world beyond his little circle was a wilderness of wild beasts who could
gnash their teeth and show their claws after a terribly ostentatious fashion in their own dens;
they doubtless gloated upon all the innocent sheep whom they had devoured without any shadow
of reticence. And he had a fancy that, in their way, they were amusing monsters too; Lovelace
is a lady's villain, as Grandison is a lady's hero; he is designed by a person inexperienced
even in the observation of vice. Indeed, he would exaggerate the charm a good deal more than
the atrocity. We must also admit that when the old printer was put upon his mettle he could
be very lively indeed. Lovelace, like everybody else, is at times unmercifully prolix; he never
leaves us to guess any detail for ourselves; but he is spirited, eloquent, and a thoroughly
fine gentleman after the Chesterfield type. 'The devil take such fine gentlemen!' exclaims
somebody; and if he does not, I see little use (to quote the proverbial old lady) in keeping
a devil. But, as Johnson observed, a man may be very wicked and 'very genteel.' Richardson
lectures us very seriously on the evil results which are sure to follow bad courses; but he
evidently holds in his heart that, till the Nemesis descends, the libertines are far the most
amusing part of the world. In Sir Charles Grandison's company, we should be treated to an intolerable
deal of sermonising, with an occasional descent into the regions of humour--but the humour
is always admitted under protest. With Lovelace we might hear some very questionable morality,
but there would be a never-ceasing flow of sparkling witticisms. The devil's advocate has the
laugh distinctly on his side, whatever may be said of the argument. Finally, we may say that
Lovelace, if too obviously constructed to work the plot, certainly works it well. When we coolly
dissect him and ask whether he could ever have existed, we may be forced to reply in the negative.
But whilst we read we forget to criticise; he seems to possess more vitality than most living
men; he is so full of eloquent brag, and audacious sophistry, and unblushing impudence, that
he fascinates us as he is supposed to have bewildered Clarissa. The dragon who is to devour
the maiden comes with all the flash and glitter and overpowering whirl of wings that can be
desired. He seems to be irresistible--we admire him and hate him, and some time elapses before
we begin to suspect that he is merely a stage dragon, and not one of those who really walk
this earth.

Richardson's defects are, of course, obvious enough. He cares nothing, for example, for what
we call the beauties of nature. There is scarcely throughout his books one description showing
the power of appealing to emotions through scenery claimed by every modern scribbler. In passing
the Alps, the only remark which one of his characters has to make, beyond describing the horrible
dangers of the Mont Cenis, is that 'every object which here presents itself is excessively
miserable.' His ideal scenery is a 'large and convenient country-house, situated in a spacious
park,' with plenty of 'fine prospects,' which you are expected to view from a 'neat but plain
villa, built in the rustic taste.' And his views of morality are as contracted as his taste
in landscapes. The most distinctive article of his creed is that children should have a reverence
for their parents which would be exaggerated in the slave of an Eastern despot. We can pardon
Clarissa for refusing to die happy until her stupid and ill-tempered old father has revoked
a curse which he bestowed upon her. But we cannot quite excuse Sir Charles Grandison for writing
in this fashion to his disreputable old parent, who has asked his consent to a certain family
arrangement in which he had a legal right to be consulted:--

'As for myself,' he says, 'I cannot have one objection; but what am I in this case? My sister
is wholly my father's; I also am his. The consideration he gives me in this instance confounds
me. It binds me to him in double duty. It would look like taking advantage of it, were I so
much as to offer my humble opinion, unless he were pleased to command it from me.'

Even one of Richardson's abject lady-correspondents was revolted by this exaggerated servility.
But narrow as his vision might be in some directions, his genius is not the less real. He is
a curious example of the power which a real artistic insight may exhibit under the most disadvantageous
forms. To realise his characteristic power, we should take one of the great French novelists
whom we admire for the exquisite proportions of his story, the unity of the interest and the
skill--so unlike our common English clumsiness--with which all details are duly subordinated.
He should have, too, the comparative weakness of French novelists, a defective perception of
character, a certain unwillingness in art as in politics to allow individual peculiarities
to interfere with the main flow of events; for, admitting the great excellence of his minor
performers, Richardson's most elaborately designed characters are so artificial that they derive
their interest from the events in which they play their parts, rather than give interest to
them--little as he may have intended it. Then we must cause our imaginary Frenchman to transmigrate
into the body of a small, plump, weakly printer of the eighteenth century. We may leave him
a fair share of his vivacity, though considerably narrowing his views of life and morality;
but we must surround him with a court of silly women whose incessant flatteries must generate
in him an unnatural propensity to twaddle. It is curious, indeed, that he describes himself
as writing without a plan. He compares himself to a poor woman lying down upon the hearth to
blow up a wretched little fire of green sticks. He had to live from hand to mouth. But the
absence of an elaborate scheme is not fatal to the unity of design. He watches, rather than
designs, the development of his plot. He has so lively a faith in his characters that, instead
of laying down their course of action, he simply watches them to see how they will act. This
makes him deliberate a little too much; they move less by impulse than from careful reflection
upon all the circumstances. Yet it also implies an evolution of the story from the necessity
of the characters in a given situation, and gives an air of necessary deduction to the whole
scheme of his stories. All the gossiping propensities of his nature will grow to unhealthy
luxuriance, and the fine edge of his wit will be somewhat dulled in the process. He will thus
become capable of being a bore--a thing which is impossible to any unsophisticated Frenchman.
In this way we might obtain a literary product so anomalous in appearance as 'Clarissa'--a
story in which a most affecting situation is drawn with extreme power, and yet so overlaid
with twaddle, so unmercifully protracted and spun out as to be almost unreadable to the present
generation. But to complete Richardson, we must inoculate him with the propensities of another
school: we must give him a liberal share of the feminine sensitiveness and closeness of observation
of which Miss Austen is the great example. And perhaps, to fill in the last details, he ought,
in addition, to have a dash of the more unctuous and offensive variety of the dissenting preacher--for
we know not where else to look for the astonishing and often ungrammatical fluency by which
he is possessed, and which makes his best passages remind us of the marvellous malleability
of some precious metals.

Anyone who will take the trouble to work himself fairly into the story will end by admitting
Richardson's power. Sir George Trevelyan records and corroborates a well-known anecdote told
by Thackeray from Macaulay's lips. A whole station was infected by the historian's zeal for
'Clarissa.' It worked itself up into a 'passion of excitement,' and all the great men and their
wives fought for the book, and could hardly read it for tears. The critic must observe that
Macaulay had a singular taste for reading even the trashiest novels; and, that probably an
Indian station at that period was in respect of such reading like a thirsty land after a long
drought. For that reason it reproduced pretty accurately the state of society in which 'Clarissa'
was first read, when there were as yet no circulating libraries, and the winter evenings were
long in the country and the back parlours of tradesmen's shops. Probably, a person eager to
enjoy Richardson's novels now would do well to take them as his only recreation for a long
holiday in a remote place and pray for steady rain. On those conditions, he may enter into
the old spirit. And the remark may suggest one moral, for one ought not to conclude an article
upon Richardson without a moral. It is that a purpose may be a very dangerous thing for a novelist
in so far as it leads him to try means of persuasion not appropriate to his art; but when,
as with Richardson, it implies a keen interest in an imaginary world, a desire to set forth
in the most forcible way what are the great springs of action of human beings by showing them
under appropriate situations, then it may be a source of such power of fascination as is exercised
by the greatest writers alone.

POPE AS A MORALIST

The vitality of Pope's writings, or at least of certain fragments of them, is remarkable. Few
reputations have been exposed to such perils at the hands of open enemies or of imprudent friends.
In his lifetime 'the wasp of Twickenham' could sting through a sevenfold covering of pride
or stupidity. Lady Mary and Lord Hervey writhed and retaliated with little more success than
the poor denizens of Grub Street. But it is more remarkable that Pope seems to be stinging
well into the second century after his death. His writings resemble those fireworks which,
after they have fallen to the ground and been apparently quenched, suddenly break out again
into sputtering explosions. The waters of a literary revolution have passed over him without
putting him out. Though much of his poetry has ceased to interest us, so many of his brilliant
couplets still survive that probably no dead writer, with the solitary exception of Shakespeare,
is more frequently quoted at the present day. It is in vain that he is abused, ridiculed, and
often declared to be no poet at all. The school of Wordsworth regarded him as the embodiment
of the corrupting influence in English poetry; and it is only of late that we are beginning
to aim at a more catholic spirit in literary criticism. It is not our business simply to revile
or to extol the ideals of our ancestors, but to try to understand them. The passionate partisanship
of militant schools is pardonable in the apostles of a new creed, but when the struggle is
over we must aim at saner judgments. A critic whose judgments, however wayward, are always
keen and original, has more recently spoken of Pope in terms which recall Byron's enthusiasm.
'You can only learn to speak as these men spake by learning what these men were.' When we ask
impartially what Pope was, we may possibly be inclined to doubt the complete soundness of the
eulogy upon his teaching. Meanwhile, however, Byron and Mr. Ruskin agree in holding up Pope
as an instance, almost as the typical instance, of that kind of poetry which is directly intended
to enforce a lofty morality. Though we can never take either Byron or Mr. Ruskin as the representative
of sweet reasonableness, their admiration is some proof that Pope possessed great merits as
a poetical interpreter of morals. Without venturing into the wider ocean of poetical criticism,
I will endeavour to consider what was the specific element in Pope's poetry which explains,
if it does not justify, this enthusiastic praise.

I shall venture to assume, indeed, that Pope was a genuine poet. Perhaps, as M. Taine thinks,
it is a proof of our British grossness that we still admire the 'Rape of the Lock,' yet I must
agree with most critics that it is admirable after its kind. Pope's sylphs, as Mr. Elwin says,
are legitimate descendants from Shakespeare's fairies. True, they have entered into rather
humiliating bondage. Shakespeare's Ariel has to fetch the midnight dew from the still-vexed
Bermoothes; he delights to fly--

    To swim, to dive into the fire, to ride
    On the curl'd clouds--

whereas the 'humbler province' of Pope's Ariel is 'to tend the fair'--

    To steal from rainbows, ere they drop in showers,
    A brighter wash; to curl their waving hairs,
    Assist their blushes, and inspire their airs.

Pope's muse--one may use the old-fashioned word in such a connection--had left the free forest
for Will's Coffee-house, and haunted ladies' boudoirs instead of the brakes of the enchanted
island. Her wings were clogged with 'gums and pomatums,' and her 'thin essence' had shrunk
'like a rivel'd flower.' But a delicate fancy is a delicate fancy still, even when employed
about the paraphernalia of modern life; a truth which Byron maintained, though not in an unimpeachable
form, in his controversy with Bowles. We sometimes talk as if our ancestors were nothing but
hoops and wigs; and forget that they had a fair allowance of human passions. And consequently
we are very apt to make a false estimate of the precise nature of that change which fairly
entitles us to call Pope's age prosaic. In showering down our epithets of artificial, sceptical,
and utilitarian, we not seldom forget what kind of figure we are ourselves likely to make in
the eyes of our own descendants.

Whatever be the position rightly to be assigned to Pope in the British Walhalla, his own theory
has been unmistakably expressed. He boasts

    That not in fancy's maze he wandered long,
    But stooped to truth and moralised his song.

His theory is compressed into one of the innumerable aphorisms which have to some degree lost
their original sharpness of definition, because they have passed, as current coinage, through
so many hands.

    The proper study of mankind is man.

The saying is in form nearly identical with Goethe's remark that man is properly the only object
which interests man. The two poets, indeed, understood the doctrine in a very different way.
Pope's interpretation strikes the present generation as narrow and mechanical. He would place
such limitations upon the sphere of human interest as to exclude, perhaps, the greatest part
of what we generally mean by poetry. How much, for example, would have to be suppressed if
we sympathised with Pope's condemnation of the works in which

    Pure description holds the place of sense.

Nearly all the works of such poets as Thomson and Cowper would disappear, Wordsworth's pages
would show fearful gaps, and Keats would be in risk of summary suppression. We may doubt whether
much would be left of Spenser, from whom both Keats and Pope, like so many other of our poets,
drew inspiration in their youth. Fairyland would be deserted, and the poet condemned to working
upon ordinary commonplaces in broad daylight. The principle which Pope proclaimed is susceptible
of the inverse application. Poetry, as it proves, may rightly concern itself with inanimate
nature, with pure description, or with the presentation of lovely symbols not definitely identified
with any cut-and-dried saws of moral wisdom; because there is no part of the visible universe
to which we have not some relation, and the most ethereal dreams that ever visited a youthful
poet 'on summer eve by haunted stream' are in some sense reflections of the passions and interests
that surround our daily life. Pope, however, as the man more fitted than any other fully to
interpret the mind of his own age, inevitably gives a different construction to a very sound
maxim. He rightly assumes that man is his proper study; but then by man he means not the genus,
but a narrow species of the human being. 'Man' means Bolingbroke, and Walpole, and Swift, and
Curll, and Theobald; it does not mean man as the product of a long series of generations and
part of the great universe of inextricably involved forces. He cannot understand the man of
distant ages; Homer is to him not the spontaneous voice of the heroic age, but a clever artist
whose gods and heroes are consciously-constructed parts of an artificial 'machinery.' Nature
has, for him, ceased to be inhabited by sylphs and fairies, except to amuse the fancies of
fine ladies and gentlemen, and has not yet received a new interest from the fairy tales of
science. The old ideal of chivalry merely suggests the sneers of Cervantes, or even the buffoonery
of Butler's wit, and has not undergone restoration at the hands of modern romanticists. Politics
are not associated in his mind with any great social upheaval, but with a series of petty squabbles
for places and pensions, in which bribery is the great moving force. What he means by religion
is generally not so much the existence of a divine element in the world as a series of bare
metaphysical demonstrations too frigid to produce enthusiasm or to stimulate the imagination.
And, therefore, he inevitably interests himself chiefly in what is certainly a perennial source
of interest--the passions and thoughts of the men and women immediately related to himself;
and it may be remarked, in passing, that if this narrows the range of Pope's poetry, the error
is not so vital as a modern delusion of the opposite kind. Because poetry should not be brought
into too close a contact with the prose of daily life, we sometimes seem to think that it must
have no relation to daily life at all, and consequently convert it into a mere luxurious dreaming,
where the beautiful very speedily degenerates into the pretty or the picturesque. Because poetry
need not be always a point-blank fire of moral platitudes, we occasionally declare that there
is no connection at all between poetry and morality, and that all art is good which is for
the moment agreeable. Such theories must end in reducing all poetry and art to be at best more
or less elegant trifling for the amusement of the indolent; and to those who uphold them Pope's
example may be of some use. If he went too far in the direction of identifying poetry with
preaching, he was not wrong in assuming that poetry should involve preaching, though by an
indirect method. Morality and art are not independent, though not identical. Both, as Mr. Ruskin
urges in the passage just quoted, are only admirable when the expression of healthful and noble
natures. But, without discussing that thorny problem and certainly without committing myself
to an approval of Mr. Ruskin's solution, I am content to look at it for the time from Pope's
stand-point.

Taking Pope's view of his poetical office, there remain considerable difficulties in estimating
the value of the lesson which he taught with so much energy. The difficulties result both from
that element which was common to his contemporaries and from that which was supplied by Pope's
own idiosyncrasies. The commonplaces in which Pope takes such infinite delight have become
very stale for us. Assuming their perfect sincerity, we cannot understand how anybody should
have thought of enforcing them with such amazing emphasis. We constantly feel a shock like
that which surprises the reader of Young's 'Night Thoughts' when he finds it asserted, in all
the pomp of blank verse, that

    Procrastination is the thief of time.

The maxim has rightly been consigned to copy-books. And a great deal of Pope's moralising is
of the same order. We do not want denunciations of misers. Nobody at the present day keeps
gold in an old stocking. When we read the observation,

    'Tis strange the miser should his cares employ
    To gain the riches he can ne'er enjoy,

we can only reply that we have heard something like it before. In fact, we cannot place ourselves
in the position of men at the time when modern society was first definitely emerging from the
feudal state, and everybody was sufficiently employed in gossiping about his neighbours. We
are perplexed by the extreme interest with which they dwell upon the little series of obvious
remarks which have been worked to death by later writers. Pope, for example, is still wondering
over the first appearance of one of the most familiar of modern inventions.

He points out, with an odd superfluity of illustration, that bank-notes enable a man to be
bribed much more easily than of old. There is no danger, he says, that a patriot will be exposed
by a guinea dropping out of his pocket at the end of an interview with the minister; and he
shows how awkward it would be if a statesman had to take his bribes in kind, and his servants
should proclaim,

    Sir, Spain has sent a thousand jars of oil;
    Huge bales of British cloth blockade the door;
    A hundred oxen at your levees roar.

This, however, was natural enough when the South Sea scheme was for the first time illustrating
the powers and the dangers of extended credit. To us, who are beginning to fit our experience
of commercial panics into a scientific theory, the wonder expressed by Pope sounds like the
exclamations of a savage over a Tower musket. And in the sphere of morals it is pretty much
the same. All those reflections about the little obvious vanities and frivolities of social
life which supplied two generations of British essayists, from the 'Tatler' to the 'Lounger,'
with an inexhaustible fund of mild satire, have lost their freshness. Our own modes of life
have become so complex by comparison, that we pass over these mere elements to plunge at once
into more refined speculations. A modern essayist starts where Addison or Johnson left off.
He assumes that his readers know that procrastination is an evil, and tries to gain a little
piquancy by paradoxically pointing out the objections to punctuality. Character, of course,
becomes more complex, and requires more delicate modes of analysis. Compare, for example, the
most delicate of Pope's delineations with one of Mr. Browning's elaborate psychological studies.
Remember how many pages of acute observation are required to set forth Bishop Blougram's peculiar
phase of worldliness, and then turn to Pope's descriptions of Addison, or Wharton, or Buckingham.
Each of those descriptions is, indeed, a masterpiece in its way; the language is inimitably
clear and pointed; but the leading thought is obvious, and leads to no intricate problems.
Addison--assuming Pope's Addison to be the real Addison--might be cold-blooded and jealous;
but he had not worked out that elaborate machinery for imposing upon himself and others which
is required in a more critical age. He wore a mask, but a mask of simple construction; not
one of those complex contrivances of modern invention which are so like the real skin that
it requires the acuteness and patience of a scientific observer to detect the difference and
point out the nature of the deception. The moral difference between an Addison and a Blougram
is as great as the difference between an old stage-coach and a steam-engine, or between the
bulls and bears which first received the name in Law's time and their descendants on the New
York Stock Exchange.

If, therefore, Pope gains something in clearness and brilliancy by the comparative simplicity
of his art, he loses by the extreme obviousness of its results. We cannot give him credit for
being really moved by such platitudes. We have the same feeling as when a modern preacher employs
twenty minutes in proving that it is wrong to worship idols of wood and stone. But, unfortunately,
there is a reason more peculiar to Pope which damps our sympathy still more decidedly. Recent
investigations have strengthened those suspicions of his honesty which were common even amongst
his contemporaries. Mr. Elwin was (very excusably) disgusted by the revelations of his hero's
baseness, till his indignation became a painful burden to himself and his readers. Speaking
bluntly, indeed, we admit that lying is a vice, and that Pope was in a small way one of the
most consummate liars that ever lived. He speaks himself of 'equivocating pretty genteelly'
in regard to one of his peccadilloes. Pope's equivocation is to the equivocation of ordinary
men what a tropical fern is to the stunted representatives of the same species in England.
It grows until the fowls of the air can rest on its branches. His mendacity in short amounts
to a monomania. That a man with intensely irritable nerves, and so fragile in constitution
that his life might, without exaggeration, be called a 'long disease,' should defend himself
by the natural weapons of the weak, equivocation and subterfuge, when exposed to the brutal
horseplay common in that day, is indeed not surprising. But Pope's delight in artifice was
something unparalleled. He could hardly drink tea without 'a stratagem,' or, as Lady Bolingbroke
put it, was a politician about cabbages and turnips; and certainly he did not despise the arts
known to politicians on a larger stage. Never, surely, did all the arts of the most skilful
diplomacy give rise to a series of intrigues more complex than those which attended the publication
of the 'P. T. Letters.' An ordinary man says that he is obliged to publish by request of friends,
and we regard the transparent device as, at most, a venial offence. But in Pope's hands this
simple trick becomes a complex apparatus of plots within plots, which have only been unravelled
by the persevering labours of most industrious literary detectives. The whole story was given
for the first time at full length in Mr. Elwin's edition of Pope, and the revelation borders
upon the incredible. How Pope became for a time two men; how in one character he worked upon
the wretched Curll through mysterious emissaries until the piratical bookseller undertook to
publish the letters already privately printed by Pope himself; how Pope in his other character
protested vehemently against the publication and disavowed all complicity in the preparations;
how he set the House of Lords in motion to suppress the edition; and how, meanwhile, he took
ingenious precautions to frustrate the interference which he provoked; how in the course of
these manoeuvres his genteel equivocation swelled into lying on the most stupendous scale--all
this story, with its various ins and outs, may be now read by those who have the patience.
The problem may be suggested to casuists how far the iniquity of a lie should be measured by
its immediate purpose, or how far it is aggravated by the enormous mass of superincumbent falsehoods
which it inevitably brings in its train. We cannot condemn very seriously the affected coyness
which tries to conceal a desire for publication under an apparent yielding to extortion; but
we must certainly admit that the stomach of any other human being of whom a record has been
preserved would have revolted at the thought of wading through such a waste of falsification
to secure so paltry an end. Moreover, this is only one instance, and by no means the worst
instance, of Pope's regular practice in such matters. Almost every publication of his life
was attended with some sort of mystification passing into downright falsehood, and, at times,
injurious to the character of his dearest friends. We have to add to this all the cases in
which Pope attacked his enemies under feigned names and then disavowed his attacks; the malicious
misstatements which he tried to propagate in regard to Addison; and we feel it a positive relief
when we are able to acquit him, partially at least, of the worst charge of extorting 1,000l.
from the Duchess of Marlborough for the suppression of a satirical passage.

Whatever minor pleas may be put forward in extenuation, it certainly cannot be denied that
Pope's practical morality was defective. Genteel equivocation is not one of the Christian graces;
and a gentleman convicted at the present day of practices comparable to those in which Pope
indulged so freely might find it expedient to take his name off the books of any respectable
club. Now, if we take literally Mr. Ruskin's doctrine that a noble morality must proceed from
a noble nature, the inference from Pope's life to his writings is not satisfactory.

We may, indeed, take it for demonstrated that Pope was not one of those men who can be seen
from all points of view. There are corners of his nature which will not bear examination. We
cannot compare him with such men as Milton, or Cowper, or Wordsworth, whose lives are the noblest
commentary on their works. Rather he is one of the numerous class in whom the excessive sensibility
of genius has generated very serious disease. In more modern days we may fancy that his views
would have taken a different turn, and that Pope would have belonged to the Satanic school
of writers, and instead of lying enormously, have found relief for his irritated nerves in
reviling all that is praised by ordinary mankind. But we must hesitate before passing from
his acknowledged vices to a summary condemnation of the whole man. Human nature (the remark
is not strictly original) is often inconsistent; and, side by side with degrading tendencies,
there sometimes lie not only keen powers of intellect, but a genuine love for goodness, benevolence,
and even for honesty. Pope is one of those strangely mixed characters which can only be fully
delineated by a masterly hand, and Mr. Courthope in the life which concludes the definitive
edition of the works has at last performed the task with admirable skill and without too much
shrouding his hero's weaknesses. Meanwhile our pleasure in reading him is much counterbalanced
by the suspicion that those pointed aphorisms which he turns out in so admirably polished a
form may come only from the lips outwards. Pope, it must be remembered, is essentially a parasitical
writer. He was a systematic appropriator--I do not say plagiarist, for the practice seems to
be generally commendable--of other men's thoughts. His brilliant gems have often been found
in some obscure writer, and have become valuable by the patient care with which he has polished
and mounted them. We doubt their perfect sincerity because, when he is speaking in his own
person, we can often prove him to be at best under a curious delusion. Take, for example, the
'Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot,' which is his most perfect work. Some of the boasts in it are apparently
quite justified by the facts. Or what is the value of a professed indifference to Dennis from
the man distinguished beyond all other writers for the bitterness of his resentment against
all small critics; who disfigured his best poems by his petty vengeance for old attacks; and
who could not refrain from sneering at poor Dennis, even in the Prologue which he condescended
to write for the benefit of his dying antagonist? Or, again, one can hardly help smiling at
his praises of his own hospitality. The dinner which he promises to his friend is to conclude
with--

    Cheerful healths (your mistress shall have place),
    And, what's more rare, a poet shall say grace.

The provision made for the 'cheerful healths,' as Johnson lets us know, consisted of the remnant
of a pint of wine, from which Pope had taken a couple of glasses, divided amongst two guests.
There was evidently no danger of excessive conviviality. And then a grace in which Bolingbroke
joined could not have been a very impressive ceremony.

Thus, we are always pursued, in reading Pope, by disagreeable misgivings. We don't know what
comes from the heart, and what from the lips: when the real man is speaking, and when we are
only listening to old commonplaces skilfully vamped. There is always, if we please, a bad interpretation
to be placed upon his finest sentiments. His indignation against the vicious is confused with
his hatred of personal enemies; he protests most loudly that he is honest when he is 'equivocating
most genteelly;' his independence may be called selfishness or avarice; his toleration simple
indifference; and even his affection for his friends a decorous fiction, which will never lead
him to the slightest sacrifice of his own vanity or comfort. A critic of the highest order
is provided with an Ithuriel spear, which discriminates the sham sentiments from the true.
As a banker's clerk can tell a bad coin by its ring on the counter, without need of a testing
apparatus, the true critic can instinctively estimate the amount of bullion in Pope's epigrammatic
tinsel. But criticism of this kind, as Pope truly says, is as rare as poetical genius. Humbler
writers must be content to take their weights and measures, or, in other words, to test their
first impressions, by such external evidence as is available. They must proceed cautiously
in these delicate matters, and instead of leaping to the truth by a rapid intuition, patiently
enquire what light is thrown upon Pope's sincerity by the recorded events of his life, and
a careful cross-examination of the various witnesses to his character. They must, indeed, keep
in mind Mr. Ruskin's excellent canon--that good fruit, even in moralising, can only be borne
by a good tree. Where Pope has succeeded in casting into enduring form some valuable moral
sentiment, we may therefore give him credit for having at least felt it sincerely. If he did
not always act upon it, the weakness is not peculiar to Pope. Time, indeed, has partly done
the work for us. In Pope, more than in almost any other writer, the grain has sifted itself
from the chaff. The jewels have remained after the flimsy embroidery in which they were fixed
has fallen into decay. Such a result was natural from his mode of composition. He caught at
some inspiration of the moment; he cast it roughly into form; brooded over it; retouched it
again and again; and when he had brought it to the very highest polish of which his art was
capable, placed it in a pigeon-hole to be fitted, when the opportunity offered, into an appropriate
corner of his mosaic-work. We can see him at work, for example, in the passage about Addison
and the celebrated concluding couplet. The epigrams in which his poetry abounds have obviously
been composed in the same fashion, for that 'masterpiece of man,' as South is made to call
it in the 'Dunciad,' is only produced in perfection when the labour which would have made an
ode has been concentrated upon a couple of lines. There is a celebrated recipe for dressing
a lark, if we remember rightly, in which the lark is placed inside a snipe, and the snipe in
a woodcock, and so on till you come to a turkey, or, if procurable, to an ostrich; then, the
mass having been properly stewed, the superincumbent envelopes are all thrown away, and the
essences of the whole are supposed to be embodied in the original nucleus. So the perfect epigram,
at which Pope is constantly aiming, should be the quintessence of a whole volume of reflection.
Such literary cookery, however, implies not only labour, but an unwearied vividness of thought
and feeling. The poet must put his soul into the work as well as his artistic power. Thus,
if we may take Pope's most vigorous expressions as an indication of his strongest convictions,
and check their conclusions by his personal history and by the general tendency of his writings,
we might succeed in putting together something like a satisfactory statement of the moral system
which he expressed forcibly because he believed in it sincerely.

Without following the proofs in detail, let us endeavour to give some statement of the result.
What, in fact, did Pope learn by his study of man, such as it was? What does he tell us about
the character of human beings and their position in the universe which is either original or
marked by the freshness of independent thought? Perhaps the most characteristic vein of reflection
is that which is embodied in the 'Dunciad.' There, at least, we have Pope speaking energetically
and sincerely. He really detests, abjures, and abominates as impious and heretical, without
a trace of mental reservation, the worship of the great goddess Dulness. The 'Dunciad' does
not show the quality in which Pope most excels, that which makes his best satires resemble
the quintessence of the most brilliant thought of his most brilliant contemporaries. But it
has more energy and continuity than most of his other poetry. The 'Dunciad' often flows in
a continuous stream of eloquence, instead of dribbling out in little jets of epigram. If there
are fewer points, there are more frequent gushes of sustained rhetoric. Even when Pope condescends--and
he condescends much too often--to pelt his antagonists with mere filth, he does it with a touch
of boisterous vigour. He laughs out. He catches something from his patron Swift when he

    Laughs and shakes in Rabelais's easy chair.

His lungs seem to be fuller and his voice to lose for the time its tricks of mincing affectation.
Here, indeed, there can be no question of insincerity. Pope's scorn of folly is to be condemned
only so far as it was connected with too bitter a hatred of fools. He has suffered, as Swift
foretold, by the insignificance of the enemies against whom he rages with superfluous vehemence.
But for Pope, no one in this generation would have heard of Arnall and Moore and Breval and
Bezaleel Morris and fifty more ephemeral denizens of Grub Street. The fault is, indeed, inherent
in the plan. It is in some degree creditable to Pope that his satire was on the whole justified,
so far as it could be justified, by the correctness of his judgment. The only great man whom
he has seriously assaulted is Bentley; and to Pope, Bentley was of necessity not the greatest
of classical critics, but the tasteless mutilator of Milton, and, as we must perhaps add, the
object of the hatred of Pope's particular friends, Atterbury and Warburton. The misfortune
is that the more just his satire, the more perishable is its interest; and if we regard the
'Dunciad' simply as an assault upon the vermin who then infested literature, we must consider
him as a man who should use a steam-hammer to crack a flea. Unluckily for ourselves, however,
it cannot be admitted so easily that Curll and Dennis and the rest had a merely temporary interest.
Regarded as types of literary nuisances--and Pope does not condescend in his poetry, though
the want is partly supplied in the notes, to indulge in much personal detail--they may be said
by cynics to have a more enduring vitality. Of course there is at the present day no such bookseller
as Curll, living by piratical invasions of established rights, and pandering to the worst passions
of ignorant readers; no writer who could be fitly called, like Concanen,

    A cold, long-winded native of the deep,

and fitly sentenced to dive where Fleet Ditch

    Rolls the large tribute of dead dogs to Thames;

and most certainly we must deny the present applicability of the note upon 'Magazines' compiled
by Pope, or rather by Warburton, for the episcopal bludgeon is perceptible in the prose description.
They are not at present 'the eruption of every miserable scribbler, the scum of every dirty
newspaper, or fragments of fragments picked up from every dirty dunghill ... equally the disgrace
of human wit, morality, decency, and common sense.' But if the translator of the 'Dunciad'
into modern phraseology would have some difficulty in finding a head for every cap, there are
perhaps some satirical stings which have not quite lost their point.

There is still facetiousness which reminds us too forcibly that

    Gentle Dulness ever loves a joke,

and even sermons, for which we may apologise on the ground that

    Dulness is sacred in a sound divine.

And the first four lines, at least, of the great prophecy at the conclusion of the third book
is thought by the enemies of muscular Christianity to be possibly approaching its fulfilment:

    Proceed, great days! till learning fly the shore,
    Till birch shall blush with noble blood no more,
    Till Thames see Eton's sons for ever play,
    Till Westminster's whole year be holiday,
    Till Isis' elders reel, their pupils sport,
    And Alma Mater lies dissolved in Port!

No! So far as we can see, it is still true that

    Born a goddess, Dulness never dies.

Men, we know it on high authority, are still mostly fools. If Pope be in error, it is not so
much that his adversary is beneath him, as that she is unassailable by wit or poetry. Weapons
of the most ethereal temper spend their keenness in vain against the 'anarch old' whose power
lies in utter insensibility. It is fighting with a mist, and firing cannon-balls into a mudheap.
As well rave against the force of gravitation, or complain that our gross bodies must be nourished
by solid food. If, however, we should be rather grateful than otherwise to a man who is sanguine
enough to believe that satire can be successful against stupidity, and that Grub Street, if
it cannot be exterminated, can at least be lashed into humility, we might perhaps complain
that Pope has taken rather too limited a view of the subject. Dulness has other avatars besides
the literary. In the last and finest book, Pope attempts to complete his plan by exhibiting
the influence of dulness upon theology and science. The huge torpedo benumbs every faculty
of the human mind, and paralyses all the Muses, except 'mad Mathesis,' which, indeed, does
not carry on so internecine a war with the general enemy. The design is commendable, and executed,
so far as Pope was on a level with his task, with infinite spirit. But, however excellent the
poetry, the logic is defective, and the description of the evil inadequate. Pope has but a
vague conception of the mode in which dulness might become the leading force in politics, lower
religion till it became a mere cloak for selfishness, and make learning nothing but laborious
and pedantic trifling. Had his powers been equal to his goodwill, we might have had a satire
far more elevated than anything which he has attempted; for a man must be indeed a dull student
of history who does not recognise the vast influence of dulness-worship on the whole period
which has intervened between Pope and ourselves. Nay, it may be feared that it will yet be
some time before education bills and societies for university extension will have begun to
dissipate the evil. A modern satirist, were satire still alive, would find an ample occupation
for his talents in a worthy filling out of Pope's incomplete sketch. But though I feel, I must
endeavour to resist the temptation of indicating some of the probable objects of his antipathy.

Pope's gallant assault on the common enemy indicates, meanwhile, his characteristic attitude.
Pope is the incarnation of the literary spirit. He is the most complete representative in our
language of the intellectual instincts which find their natural expression in pure literature,
as distinguished from literature applied to immediate practical ends, or enlisted in the service
of philosophy or science. The complete antithesis to that spirit is the evil principle which
Pope attacks as dulness. This false goddess is the literary Ahriman; and Pope's natural antipathies,
exaggerated by his personal passions and weaknesses to extravagant proportions, express themselves
fully in his great mock-epic. His theory may be expressed in a parody of Nelson's immortal
advice to his midshipmen: 'Be an honest man and hate dulness as you do the devil.' Dulness
generates the asphyxiating atmosphere in which no true literature can thrive. It oppresses
the lungs and irritates the nerves of men whose keen brilliant intellects mark them as the
natural servants of literature. Seen from this point of view, there is an honourable completeness
in Pope's career. Possibly a modern subject of literature may, without paradox, express a certain
gratitude to Pope for a virtue which he would certainly be glad to imitate. Pope was the first
man who made an independence by literature. First and last, he seems to have received over
8,000l. for his translation of Homer, a sum then amply sufficient to enable him to live in
comfort. No sum at all comparable to this was ever received by a poet or novelist until the
era of Scott and Byron. Now, without challenging admiration for Pope on the simple ground that
he made his fortune, it is difficult to exaggerate the importance of this feat at the time.
A contemporary who, whatever his faults, was a still more brilliant example than Pope of the
purely literary qualities, suggests a curious parallel. Voltaire, as he tells us, was so weary
of the humiliations that dishonour letters, that to stay his disgust he resolved to make 'what
scoundrels call a great fortune.' Some of Voltaire's means of reaching this end appear to have
been more questionable than Pope's. But both of these men of genius early secured their independence
by raising themselves permanently above the need of writing for money. It may be added in passing
that there is a curious similarity in intellect and character between Pope and Voltaire which
would on occasion be worth fuller exposition. The use, too, which Pope made of his fortune
was thoroughly honourable. We scarcely give due credit, as a rule, to the man who has the rare
merit of distinctly recognising his true vocation in life, and adhering to it with unflinching
pertinacity. Probably the fact that such virtue generally brings a sufficient personal reward
in this world seems to dispense with the necessity of additional praise. But call it a virtuous
or merely a useful quality, we must at least admit that it is the necessary groundwork of a
thoroughly satisfactory career. Pope, who from his infancy had

    Lisped in numbers, for the numbers came,

gained by his later numbers a secure position, and used his position to go on rhyming to the
end of his life. He never failed to do his very best. He regarded the wealth which he had earned
as a retaining fee, not as a discharge from his duties. Comparing him with his contemporaries,
we see how vast was the advantage. Elevated above Grub Street, he had no temptation to manufacture
rubbish or descend to actual meanness like De Foe. Independent of patronage, he was not forced
to become a 'tame cat' in the hands of a duchess, like his friend Gay. Standing apart from
politics, he was free from those disappointed pangs which contributed to the embitterment of
the later years of Swift, dying 'like a poisoned rat in a hole;' he had not, like Bolingbroke,
to affect a philosophical contempt for the game in which he could no longer take a part; nor
was he even, like Addison and Steele, induced to 'give up to party what was meant for mankind.'
He was not a better man than some of these, and certainly not better than Goldsmith and Johnson
in the succeeding generation. Yet, when we think of the amount of good intellect that ran to
waste in the purlieus of Grub Street, or in hunting for pensions in ministerial ante-chambers,
we feel a certain gratitude to the one literary magnate of the century, whose devotion, it
is true, had a very tangible reward, but whose devotion was yet continuous, and free from any
distractions but those of a constitutional irritability. Nay, if we compare Pope to some of
the later writers who have wrung still princelier rewards from fortune, the result is not unfavourable.
If Scott had been as true to his calling, his life, so far superior to Pope's in most other
respects, would not have presented the melancholy contrast of genius running to waste in desperate
attempts to win money at the cost of worthier fame.

Pope, as a Roman Catholic, and as the adherent of a defeated party, had put himself out of
the race for pecuniary reward. His loyal adherence to his friends, though, like all his virtues,
subject to some deduction, is really a touching feature in his character. His Catholicism was
of the most nominal kind. He adhered in name to a depressed Church chiefly because he could
not bear to give pain to the parents whom he loved with an exquisite tenderness. Granting that
he would not have had much chance of winning tangible rewards by the baseness of a desertion,
he at least recognised his true position; and instead of being soured by his exclusion from
the general competition, or wasting his life in frivolous regrets, he preserved a spirit of
tolerance and independence, and had a full right to the boasts in which he certainly indulged
a little too freely:--

    Not Fortune's worshipper, nor Fashion's fool,
    Not Lucre's madman, nor Ambition's tool;
    Not proud, nor servile--be one poet's praise
    That, if he pleased, he pleased by manly ways;
    That flattery, even to kings, he held a shame,
    And thought a lie in prose or verse the same.

Admitting that the last line suggests a slight qualm, the portrait suggested in the rest is
about as faithful as one can expect a man to paint from himself.

And hence we come to the question, what was the morality which Pope dispensed from this exalted
position?

Is this guardian of virtue quite immaculate, and the morality which he preaches quite of the
most elevated kind? We must admit, of course, that he does not sound the depths, or soar to
the heights, in which men of loftier genius are at home. He is not a mystic, but a man of the
world. He never, as we have already said, quits the sphere of ordinary and rather obvious maxims
about the daily life of society, or quits it at his peril. His independence is not like Milton's,
that of an ancient prophet, consoling himself by celestial visions for a world given over to
baseness and frivolity; nor like Shelley's, that of a vehement revolutionist, who has declared
open war against the existing order; it is the independence of a modern gentleman, with a competent
fortune, enjoying a time of political and religious calm. And therefore his morality is in
the main the expression of the conclusions reached by supreme good sense, or, as he puts it,

    Good sense, which only is the gift of heaven,
    And though no science, fairly worth the seven.

Good sense is one of the excellent qualities to which we are scarcely inclined to do justice
at the present day; it is the guide of a time of equilibrium, stirred by no vehement gales
of passion, and we lose sight of it just when it might give us some useful advice. A man in
a passion is never more irritated than when advised to be sensible; and at the present day
we are permanently in a passion, and therefore apt to assert that, not only for a moment, but
as a general rule, men do well to be angry. Our art critics, for example, are never satisfied
with their frame of mind till they have lashed themselves into a fit of rhetoric. Nothing more
is wanted to explain why we are apt to be dissatisfied with Pope, both as a critic and a moralist.
In both capacities, however, Pope is really admirable. Nobody, for example, has ridiculed more
happily the absurdities of which we sometimes take him to be a representative. The recipe for
making an epic poem is a perfect burlesque upon the pseudo-classicism of his time. He sees
the absurdity of the contemporary statues, whose grotesque medley of ancient and modern costume
is recalled in the lines--

    That livelong wig, which Gorgon's self might own,
    Eternal buckle takes in Parian stone.

The painters and musicians come in for their share of ridicule, as in the description of Timon's
Chapel, where

    Light quirks of music, broken and uneven,
    Make the soul dance upon a jig to heaven;
    On painted ceilings you devoutly stare,
    Where sprawl the saints of Verrio and Laguerre.

It would be impossible to hit off more happily the queer formality which annoys us, unless
its quaintness makes us smile, in the days of good Queen Anne, when Cato still appeared with a

    Long wig, flowered gown, and lacquered chair.

Pope's literary criticism, too, though verging too often on the commonplace, is generally sound
as far as it goes. If, as was inevitable, he was blind to the merits of earlier schools of
poetry, he was yet amongst the first writers who helped to establish the rightful supremacy
of Shakespeare.

But in what way does Pope apply his good sense to morality? His favourite doctrine about human
nature is expressed in the theory of the 'ruling passion' which is to be found in all men,
and which, once known, enables us to unravel the secret of every character. As he says in the
'Essay on Man'--

    On life's vast ocean diversely we sail,
    Reason the card, but passion is the gale.

Right reason, therefore, is the power which directs passions to the worthiest end; and its
highest lesson is to enforce

          The truth (enough for man to know)
    Virtue alone is happiness below.

The truth, though admirable, may be suspected of commonplace; and Pope does not lay down any
propositions unfamiliar to other moralists, nor, it is to be feared, enforce them by preaching
of more than usual effectiveness. His denunciations of avarice, of corruption, and of sensuality
were probably of little more practical use than his denunciation of dulness. The 'men not afraid
of God' were hardly likely to be deterred from selling their votes to Walpole by fear of Pope's
satire. He might

    Goad the Prelate slumbering in his stall

sufficiently to produce the episcopal equivalent for bad language; but he would hardly interrupt
the bishop's slumbers for many moments; and, on the whole, he might congratulate himself, rather
too cheaply, on being animated by

    The strong antipathy of good to bad.

Without exaggerating its importance, however, we may seek to define the precise point on which
Pope's morality differed from that of many other writers who have expressed their general approval
of the ten commandments. A healthy strain of moral feeling is useful, though we cannot point
to the individuals whom it has restrained from picking pockets.

The defective side of the morality of good sense is, that it tends to degenerate into cynicism,
either of the indolent variety which commended itself to Chesterfield, or of the more vehement
sort, of which Swift's writings are the most powerful embodiment. A shrewd man of the world,
of placid temperament, accepts placidly the conclusion that as he can see through a good many
people, virtue generally is a humbug. If he has grace enough left to be soured by such a conclusion,
he raves at the universal corruption of mankind. Now Pope, notwithstanding his petty spite,
and his sympathy with the bitterness of his friends, always shows a certain tenderness of nature
which preserves him from sweeping cynicism. He really believes in nature, and values life for
the power of what Johnson calls reciprocation of benevolence. The beauty of his affection for
his father and mother, and for his old nurse, breaks pleasantly through the artificial language
of his letters, like a sweet spring in barren ground. When he touches upon the subject in his
poetry, one seems to see tears in his eyes, and to hear his voice tremble.

Here at least he is sincere beyond suspicion; and we know from unimpeachable testimony that
the sentiment so perfectly expressed was equally exemplified in his life. It sounds easy, but
unfortunately the ease is not always proved in practice, for a man of genius to be throughout
their lives an unmixed comfort to his parents. It is unpleasant to remember that a man so accessible
to tender emotions should jar upon us by his language about women generally. Byron countersigns
the opinion of Bolingbroke that he knew the sex well; but testimony of that kind hardly prepossesses
us in his favour. In fact, the school of Bolingbroke and Swift, to say nothing of Wycherley,
was hardly calculated to generate a chivalrous tone of feeling. His experience of Lady Mary
gave additional bitterness to his sentiments. Meanwhile the vein of benevolence shows itself
unmistakably in Pope's language about his friends. Thackeray seizes upon this point of his
character in his lectures on the English Humourists, and his powerful, if rather too favourable,
description brings out forcibly the essential tenderness of the man who, during the lucid intervals
of his last illness, was 'always saying something kindly of his present or absent friends.'
Nobody, as has often been remarked, has paid so many exquisitely turned compliments. There
is something which rises to the dog-like in his affectionate admiration for Swift and for Bolingbroke,
his rather questionable 'guide, philosopher, and friend.' Whenever he speaks of a friend, he
is sure to be felicitous. There is Garth, for example--

            The best good Christian he,
    Although he knows it not.

There are beautiful lines upon Arbuthnot, addressed as--

    Friend to my life, which did not you prolong,
    The world had wanted many an idle song.

Cobham's name, again, suggests the spirited lines--

    Spirit of Arnall! aid me while I lie,
    Cobham's a coward, Polwarth is a slave,
    And Lyttelton a dark, designing knave;
    St. John has ever been a wealthy fool--
    But let me add Sir Robert's mighty dull,
    Has never made a friend in private life,
    And was, besides, a tyrant to his wife.

Perhaps the last compliment is ambiguous, but Walpole's name again
reminds us that Pope could on occasion be grateful even to an opponent. Let me only find
    He does not think me what he thinks mankind;
    Come, come; at all I laugh, he laughs no doubt;
    The only difference is, I dare laugh out.

But there is no end to the delicate flattery which may be set off against Pope's ferocious
onslaughts upon his enemies. If one could have a wish for the asking, one could scarcely ask
for a more agreeable sensation than that of being titillated by a man of equal ingenuity in
caressing one's pet vanities. The art of administering such consolation is possessed only by
men who unite such tenderness to an exquisitely delicate intellect. This vein of genuine feeling
sufficiently redeems Pope's writings from the charge of a commonplace worldliness. Certainly
he is not one of the 'genial' school, whose indiscriminate benevolence exudes over all that
they touch. There is nothing mawkish in his philanthropy. Pope was, if anything, too good a
hater; 'the portentous cub never forgives,' said Bentley; but kindliness is all the more impressive
when not too widely diffused.

And we may admit that Pope, in spite of his wig and his stays, his vanities and his affectations,
was in his way as fair an embodiment as we would expect of that 'plain living and high thinking'
of which Wordsworth regretted the disappearance. The little cripple, diseased in mind and body,
spiteful and occasionally brutal, had in him the spirit of a man. The monarch of the literary
world was far from immaculate; but he was not without a dignity of his own.

We come, however, to the question, what had Pope to say upon the deepest subjects with which
human beings can concern themselves? The most explicit answer must be taken from the 'Essay
on Man,' and the essay must be acknowledged to have more conspicuous faults than any of Pope's
writings. The art of reasoning in verse is so difficult that we may doubt whether it is in
any case legitimate, and must acknowledge that it has been never successfully practised by
any English writer. Dryden's 'Religio Laici' may be better reasoning, but it is worse poetry
than Pope's Essay. It is true, again, that Pope's reasoning is intrinsically feeble. He was
no metaphysician, and confined himself to putting together incoherent scraps of different systems.
Some of his arguments strike us as simply childish, as, for example, the quibble derived from
the Stoics, that

    The blest to-day is as completely so
    As who began a thousand years ago.

Nobody, we may safely say, was ever much comforted by that reflection. Nor, though the celebrated
argument about the scale of beings, which Pope but half-understood, was then sanctioned by
the most eminent contemporary names, do we derive any deep consolation from the remark that

        in the scale of reasoning life, 'tis plain,
    There must be somewhere such a rank as man.

To say no more of these frigid conceits, as they now appear to us, Pope does not maintain the
serious temper which befits a man pondering upon the deep mysteries of the universe. Religious
meditation does not harmonise with epigrammatical satire. Admitting the value of the reflection
that other beings besides man are fitting objects of the Divine benevolence, we are jarred
by such a discord as this:

    While man exclaims, See all things for my use!
    See man for mine! replies a pampered goose.

The goose is appropriate enough in Charron or Montaigne, but should be kept out of poetry.
Such a shock, too, follows when Pope talks about the superior beings who

    Showed a Newton as we show an ape.

Did anybody, again, ever complain that he wanted 'the strength of bulls, the fur of bears?'[2]
Or could it be worth while to meet his complaints in a serious poem? Pope, in short, is not
merely a bad reasoner, but he wants that deep moral earnestness which gives a profound interest
to Johnson's satires--the best productions of his school--and the deeply pathetic religious
feeling of Cowper.

Admitting all this, however, and more, the 'Essay on Man' still contains many passages which
not only testify to the unequalled skill of this great artist in words, but show a certain
moral dignity. In the Essay, more than in any of his other writings, we have the difficulty
of separating the solid bullion from the dross. Pope is here pre-eminently parasitical, and
it is possible to trace to other writers, such as Montaigne, Pascal, Leibniz, Shaftesbury,
Locke, and Wollaston, as well as to the inspiration of Bolingbroke, nearly every argument which
he employs. He unfortunately worked up the rubbish as well as the gems. When Mr. Ruskin says
that his 'theology was two centuries in advance of his time,' the phrase is curiously inaccurate.
He was not really in advance of the best men of his own time; but they, it is to be feared,
were considerably in advance of the average opinion of our own. What may be said with more
plausibility is, that whilst Pope frequently wastes his skill in gilding refuse, he is really
most sensitive to the noblest sentiments of his contemporaries, and that, when he has good
materials to work upon, his verse glows with unusual fervour, often to sink with unpleasant
rapidity into mere quibbling or epigrammatic pungency. The real truth is that Pope precisely
expresses the position of the best thinkers of his day. He did not understand the reasoning,
but he fully shared the sentiments of the philosophers among whom Locke and Leibniz were the
great lights. Pope is to the deists and semi-deists of his time what Milton was to the Puritans
or Dante to the Schoolmen. At times he writes like a Pantheist, and then becomes orthodox,
without a consciousness of the transition; he is a believer in universal predestination, and
saves himself by inconsistent language about 'leaving free the human will;' his views about
the origin of society are an inextricable mass of inconsistency; and he may be quoted in behalf
of doctrines which he, with the help of Warburton, vainly endeavoured to disavow. But, leaving
sound divines to settle the question of his orthodoxy, and metaphysicians to crush his arguments,
if they think it worth while, we are rather concerned with the general temper in which he regards
the universe, and the moral which he draws for his own edification. The main doctrine which
he enforces is, of course, one of his usual commonplaces. The statement that 'whatever is,
is right,' may be verbally admitted, and strained to different purposes by half-a-dozen differing
schools. It may be alleged by the cynic, who regards virtue as an empty name; by the mystic,
who is lapped in heavenly contemplation from the cares of this troublesome world; by the sceptic,
whose whole wisdom is concentrated in the duty of submitting to the inevitable; or by the man
who, abandoning the attempt of solving inscrutable enigmas, is content to recognise in everything
the hand of a Divine ordainer of all things. Pope, judging him by his most forcible passages,
prefers to insist upon the inevitable ignorance of man in presence of the Infinite:

    'Tis but a part we see, and not the whole;

and any effort to pierce the impenetrable gloom can only end in disappointment and discontent:

    In pride, in reasoning pride, our error lies.

We think that we can judge the ways of the Almighty, and correct the errors of His work. We
are as incapable of accounting for human wickedness as for plague, tempest, and earthquake.
In each case our highest wisdom is an humble confession of ignorance; or, as he puts it,

    In both, to reason right is to submit.

This vein of thought might, perhaps, have conducted him to the scepticism of his master, Bolingbroke.
He unluckily fills up the gaps of his logical edifice with the untempered mortar of obsolete
metaphysics, long since become utterly uninteresting to all men. Admitting that he cannot explain,
he tries to manufacture sham explanations out of the 'scale of beings,' and other scholastic
rubbish. But, in a sense, too, the most reverent minds will agree most fully with Pope's avowal
of the limitation of human knowledge. He does not apply his scepticism or his humility to stimulate
to vain repining against the fetters with which our minds are bound, or an angry denunciation,
like that of Bolingbroke, of the solutions in which other souls have found a sufficient refuge.
The perplexity in which he finds himself generates a spirit of resignation and tolerance.

That is the pith of his teaching. All optimism is apt to be a little irritating to men whose
sympathies with human suffering are unusually strong; and the optimism of a man like Pope,
vivacious rather than profound in his thoughts and his sympathies, annoys us at times by his
calm complacency. We cannot thrust aside so easily the thought of the heavy evils under which
all creation groans. But we should wrong him by a failure to recognise the real benevolence
of his sentiment. Pope indeed becomes too pantheistic for some tastes in the celebrated fragment--the
whole poem is a conglomerate of slightly connected fragments--beginning,

    All are but parts of one stupendous whole,
    Whose body Nature is, and God the soul.

But his real fault is that he is not consistently pantheistic. Pope was attacked both for his
pantheism and fatalism and for having borrowed from Bolingbroke. It is curious enough that
it was precisely these doctrines which he did not borrow. Bolingbroke, like most feeble reasoners,
believed firmly in Free Will; and though a theist after a fashion, his religion had not emotional
depth or logical coherence enough to be pantheistic. Pope, doubtless, did not here quit his
master's guidance from any superiority in logical perception. But he did occasionally feel
the poetical value of the pantheistic conception of the universe. Pantheism, in fact, is the
only poetical form of the metaphysical theology current in Pope's day. The old historical theology
of Dante, or even of Milton, was too faded for poetical purposes; and the 'personal Deity,'
whose existence and attributes were proved by the elaborate reasonings of the apologists of
that day, was unfitted for poetical celebration by the very fact that his existence required
proof. Poetry deals with intuitions, not with remote inferences, and therefore in his better
moments Pope spoke not of the intelligent moral Governor discovered by philosophical investigation,
but of the Divine Essence immanent in all nature, whose 'living raiment' is the world. The
finest passages in the 'Essay on Man,' like the finest passages in Wordsworth, are an attempt
to expound that view, though Pope falls back too quickly into epigram, as Wordsworth into prose.
It was reserved for Goethe to show what a poet might learn from the philosophy of Spinoza.
Meanwhile Pope, uncertain as is his grasp of any philosophical conceptions, shows, not merely
in set phrases, but in the general colouring of his poem, something of that width of sympathy
which should result from the pantheistic view. The tenderness, for example, with which he always
speaks of the brute creation is pleasant in a writer so little distinguished as a rule by an
interest in what we popularly call nature. The 'scale of being' argument may be illogical,
but we pardon it when it is applied to strengthen our sympathies with our unfortunate dependants
on the lower steps of the ladder.

But the sentiment is as right as the language (in spite of its familiarity we can still recognise
the fact) is exquisite. Tolerance of all forms of faith, from that of the poor Indian upwards,
is so characteristic of Pope as to have offended some modern critics who might have known better.
We may pick holes in the celebrated antithesis

    For forms of government let fools contest:
    Whate'er is best administered is best;
    For forms of faith let graceless zealots fight,
    He can't be wrong whose life is in the right. And the
scheme of morality which Pope deduced for practical guidance in life is
in harmony with the spirit which breathes in those words just quoted. A
recent dispute in a court of justice shows that even our most cultivated
men have forgotten Pope so far as to be ignorant of the source of the
familiar words--

    What can ennoble sots, or slaves, or cowards?
    Alas! not all the blood of all the Howards.

It is therefore necessary to say explicitly that the poem where they occur, the fourth epistle
of the 'Essay on Man,' not only contains half-a-dozen other phrases equally familiar--e.g.,
'An honest man's the noblest work of God;'[3] 'Looks through nature up to nature's God;' 'From
grave to gay, from lively to severe'--but breathes throughout sentiments which it would be
credulous to believe that any man could express so vigorously without feeling profoundly.

I know but too well all that may be said against this view of Pope's morality. He is, as Ste.-Beuve
says, the easiest of all men to caricature; and it is equally easy to throw cold water upon
his morality. We may count up his affectations, ridicule his platitudes, make heavy deductions
for his insincerity, denounce his too frequent indulgence in a certain love of dirt, which
he shares with, and in which indeed he is distanced by, Swift; and decline to believe in the
virtue, or even in the love of virtue, of a man stained by so many vices and weaknesses. Yet
I must decline to believe that men can gather grapes off thorns, or figs off thistles, or noble
expressions of moral truth from a corrupt heart thinly varnished by a coating of affectation.
Turn it how we may, the thing is impossible. Pope was more than a mere literary artist, though
he was an artist of unparalleled excellence in his own department. He was a man in whom there
was the seed of many good thoughts, though choked in their development by the growth of innumerable
weeds. And I will venture, in conclusion, to adduce one more proof of the justice of a lenient
verdict. I have had already to quote many phrases familiar to everyone who is tinctured in
the slightest degree with a knowledge of English literature; and yet have been haunted by a
dim suspicion that some of my readers may have been surprised to recognise their author. Pope,
we have seen, is recognised even by judges of the land only through the medium of Byron; and
therefore the 'Universal Prayer' may possibly be unfamiliar to some readers. If so, it will
do them no harm to read over again a few of its verses. Perhaps, after that experience, they
will admit that the little cripple of Twickenham, distorted as were his instincts after he
had been stretched on the rack of this rough world, and grievous as were his offences against
the laws of decency and morality, had yet in him a noble strain of eloquence significant of
deep religious sentiment.

    ...

These stanzas, I am well aware, do not quite conform to the modern taste in hymns, nor are
they likely to find favour with admirers of the 'Christian Year.' Another school would object
to them on a very different ground. The deism of Pope's day was not a stable form of belief;
but in the form in which it was held by the pure deists of the Toland and Tindal school, or
by the disguised deists who followed Locke or Clarke, it was the highest creed then attainable;
and Pope's prayer is an adequate impression of its best sentiment. 18.

[3] This sentiment, by the way, was attacked by Darnley, in his edition of Beaumont and Fletcher,
as 'false and degrading to man, derogatory to God.' As I have lately seen the remark quoted
with approbation, it is worth noticing the argument by which Darnley supports it. He says that
an honest able man is nobler than an honest man, and Aristides with the genius of Homer nobler
than Aristides with the dulness of a clown. Undoubtedly! But surely a man might say that English
poetry is the noblest in the world, and yet admit that Shakespeare was a nobler poet than Tom
Moore. Because honesty is nobler than any other quality, it does not follow that all honest
men are on a par. This bit of cavilling reminds one of De Quincey's elaborate argument against
the lines:

    Who would not laugh, if such a man there be?
    Who would not weep, if Atticus were he?

De Quincey says that precisely the same phenomenon is supposed to make you laugh in one line
and weep in the other; and that therefore the thought is inaccurate. As if it would not be
a fit cause for tears to discover that one of our national idols was a fitting subject for
laughter!

SIR WALTER SCOTT

The question has begun to be asked about Scott which is asked about every great man: whether
he is still read or still read as he ought to be read. I have been glad to see in some statistics
of popular literature that the Waverley Novels are still among the books most frequently bought
at railway stations, and scarcely surpassed even by 'Pickwick,' or 'David Copperfield.' A writer,
it is said, is entitled to be called a classic when his books have been read for a century
after his death. The number of books which fairly satisfies that condition is remarkably small.
There are certain books, of course, which we are all bound to read if we make any claim to
be decently educated. A modern Englishman cannot afford to confess that he has not read Shakespeare
or Milton; if he talks about philosophy, he must have dipped at least into Bacon and Hobbes
and Locke; if he is a literary critic, he must know something of Spenser and Donne and Dryden
and the early dramatists; but how many books are there of the seventeenth century which are
still read for pleasure by other than specialists? To speak within bounds, I fancy that it
would be exceedingly difficult to make out a list of one hundred English books which after
publication for a century are still really familiar to the average reader. Something like ninety-nine
of those have in any case lost the charm of novelty, and are read, if read at all, from some
vague impression that the reader is doing a duty. It takes a very powerful voice and a very
clear utterance to make a man audible to the fourth generation. If something of the mildew
of time is stealing over the Waverley Novels, we must regard that as all but inevitable. Scott
will have succeeded beyond any but the very greatest, perhaps even as much as the very greatest,
if, in the twentieth century, now so unpleasantly near, he has a band of faithful followers,
who still read because they like to read and not because they are told to read. Admitting that
he must more or less undergo the universal fate, that the glory must be dimmed even though
it be not quenched, we may still ask whether he will not retain as much vitality as the conditions
of humanity permit: Will our posterity understand at least why he was once a luminary of the
first magnitude, or wonder at their ancestors' hallucination about a mere will-o'-the-wisp?
Will some of his best performances stand out like a cathedral amongst ruined hovels, or will
they all sink into the dust together, and the outlines of what once charmed the world be traced
only by Dryasdust and historians of literature? It is a painful task to examine such questions
impartially. This probing a great reputation, and doubting whether we can come to anything
solid at the bottom, is especially painful in regard to Scott. For he has, at least, this merit,
that he is one of those rare natures for whom we feel not merely admiration but affection.
We may cherish the fame of some writers in spite of, not on account of, many personal defects;
if we satisfied ourselves that their literary reputations were founded on the sand, we might
partly console ourselves with the thought that we were only depriving bad men of a title to
genius. But for Scott most men feel in even stronger measure that kind of warm fraternal regard
which Macaulay and Thackeray expressed for the amiable, but, perhaps, rather cold-blooded,
Addison. The manliness and the sweetness of the man's nature predispose us to return the most
favourable verdict in our power. And we may add that Scott is one of the last great English
writers whose influence extended beyond his island, and gave a stimulus to the development
of European thought. We cannot afford to surrender our faith in one to whom, whatever his permanent
merits, we must trace so much that is characteristic of the mind of the nineteenth century.
Whilst, finally, if we have any Scotch blood in our veins, we must be more or less than men
to turn a deaf ear to the promptings of patriotism. When Shakespeare's fame decays everywhere
else, the inhabitants of Stratford-on-Avon, if it still exist, should still revere their tutelary
saint; and the old town of Edinburgh should tremble in its foundation when a sacrilegious hand
is laid upon the glory of Scott.

Let us, however, take courage, and, with such impartiality as we may possess, endeavour to
sift the wheat from the chaff. And, by way of following an able guide, let us dwell for a little
on the judgment pronounced upon Scott by one whose name I would never mention without profound
respect, and who has a special claim to be heard in this case. Carlyle is (I must now say was)
both a man of genius and a Scotchman. His own writings show in every line that he comes of
the same strong Protestant race from which Scott received his best qualities. It seems a good
national character, and, on some sides, not so good. Let Scott thank John Knox, for he owed
him much, little as he dreamed of debt in that quarter! No Scotchman of his time was more entirely
Scotch than Walter Scott: the good and the not so good, which all Scotchmen inherit, ran through
every fibre of him.' Nothing more true; and the words would be as strikingly appropriate if
for Walter Scott we substitute Thomas Carlyle. And to this source of sympathy we might add
others. Who in this generation could rival Scott's talent for the picturesque, unless it be
Carlyle? If Scott would in old days--I still quote his critic--have harried cattle in Tynedale
or cracked crowns in Redswire, would not Carlyle have thundered from the pulpit of John Knox
his own gospel, only in slightly altered phraseology--that shams should not live but die, and
that men should do what work lies nearest to their hands, as in the presence of the eternities
and the infinite silences?

That last parallel reminds us that if there are points of similarity, there are contrasts both
wide and deep. The rugged old apostle had probably a very low opinion of moss-troopers, and
Carlyle has a message to deliver to his fellow-creatures, which is not quite according to Scott.
And thus we see throughout his interesting essay a kind of struggle between two opposite tendencies--a
genuine liking for the man, tempered by a sense that Scott dealt rather too much in those same
shams to pass muster with a stern moral censor. Nobody can touch Scott's character more finely.
There is a charming little anecdote which every reader must remember: how there was a 'little
Blenheim cocker' of singular sensibility and sagacity; how the said cocker would at times fall
into musings like those of a Wertherean poet, and lived in perpetual fear of strangers, regarding
them all as potentially dog-stealers; how the dog was, nevertheless, endowed with 'most amazing
moral tact,' and specially hated the genus quack, and, above all, that of acrid-quack. 'These,'
says Carlyle, 'though never so clear-starched, bland-smiling, and beneficent, he absolutely
would have no trade with. Their very sugar-cake was unavailing. He said with emphasis, as clearly
as barking could say it, "Acrid-quack, avaunt!"' But once when 'a tall, irregular, busy-looking
man came halting by,' that wise, nervous little dog ran towards him, and began 'fawning, frisking,
licking at the feet' of Sir Walter Scott. No reader of reviews could have done better, says
Carlyle; and, indeed, that canine testimonial was worth having. I prefer that little anecdote
even to Lockhart's account of the pig, which had a romantic affection for the author of 'Waverley.'
Its relater at least perceived and loved that unaffected benevolence, which invested even Scott's
bodily presence with a kind of natural aroma, perceptible, as it would appear, to very far-away
cousins. But Carlyle is on his guard, and though his sympathy flows kindly enough, it is rather
harshly intercepted by his sterner mood. He cannot, indeed, but warm to Scott at the end. After
touching on the sad scene of Scott's closing years, at once ennobled and embittered by that
last desperate struggle to clear off the burden of debt, he concludes with genuine feeling.
'It can be said of Scott, when he departed he took a man's life along with him. No sounder
piece of British manhood was put together in that eighteenth century of time. We shall never
forget it--we shall never see it again. Adieu, Sir Walter, pride of all Scotchmen; take our
proud and sad farewell.'

If even the Waverley Novels should lose their interest, the last journals of Scott, recently
published by a judicious editor, can never lose their interest as the record of one of the
noblest struggles ever carried on by a great man to redeem a lamentable error. It is a book
to do one good.

And now it is time to turn to the failings which, in Carlyle's opinion, mar this pride of all
Scotchmen, and make his permanent reputation doubtful. The faults upon which he dwells are,
of course, those which are more or less acknowledged by all sound critics. Scott, says Carlyle,
had no great gospel to deliver; he had nothing of the martyr about him; he slew no monsters
and stirred no deep emotions. He did not believe in anything, and did not even disbelieve in
anything: he was content to take the world as it came--the false and the true mixed indistinguishably
together. One Ram-dass, a Hindoo, 'who set up for god-head lately,' being asked what he meant
to do with the sins of mankind, replied that 'he had fire enough in his belly to burn up all
the sins in the world.' Ram-dass had 'some spice of sense in him.' Now, of fire of that kind
we can detect few sparks in Scott. He was a thoroughly healthy, sound, vigorous Scotchman,
with an eye for the main chance, but not much of an eye for the eternities. And that unfortunate
commercial element, which caused the misery of his life, was equally mischievous to his work.
He cared for no results of his working but such as could be seen by the eye, and in one sense
or other, 'handled, looked at, and buttoned into the breeches' pocket.' He regarded literature
rather as a trade than an art; and literature, unless it is a very poor affair, should have
higher aims than that of 'harmlessly amusing indolent, languid men.' Scott would not afford
the time or the trouble to go to the root of the matter, and is content to amuse us with mere
contrasts of costume, which will lose their interest when the swallow-tail is as obsolete as
the buff-coat. And then he fell into the modern sin of extempore writing, and deluged the world
with the first hasty overflowings of his mind, instead of straining and refining it till he
could bestow the pure essence upon us. In short, his career is summed up in the phrase that
it was 'writing impromptu novels to buy farms with'--a melancholy end, truly, for a man of
rare genius. Nothing is sadder than to hear of such a man 'writing himself out;' and it is
pitiable indeed that Scott should be the example of that fate which rises most naturally to
our minds. 'Something very perfect in its kind,' says Carlyle, 'might have come from Scott,
nor was it a low kind--nay, who knows how high, with studious self-concentration, he might
have gone: what wealth nature implanted in him, which his circumstances, most unkind while
seeming to be kindest, had never impelled him to unfold?'

There is undoubtedly some truth in the severer criticisms to which some more kindly sentences
are a pleasant relief; but there is something too which most persons will be apt to consider
as rather harsher than necessary. Is not the moral preacher intruding a little too much on
the province of the literary critic? In fact we fancy that, in the midst of these energetic
remarks, Carlyle is conscious of certain half-expressed doubts. The name of Shakespeare occurs
several times in the course of his remarks, and suggests to us that we can hardly condemn Scott
whilst acquitting the greatest name in our literature. Scott, it seems, wrote for money; he
coined his brains into cash to buy farms. Did not Shakespeare do pretty much the same? As Carlyle
himself puts it, 'beyond drawing audiences to the Globe Theatre, Shakespeare contemplated no
result in those plays of his.' Shakespeare, as Pope puts it,

            Whom you and every playhouse bill
    Style the divine, the matchless, what you will,
    For gain, not glory, wing'd his roving flight,
    And grew immortal in his own despite.

To write for money was long held to be disgraceful; and Byron, as we know, taunted Scott because
his publishers combined

    To yield his muse just half-a-crown per line;

whilst Scott seems half to admit that his conduct required justification, and urges that he
sacrificed to literature very fair chances in his original profession. Many people might, perhaps,
be disposed to take a bolder line of defence. Cut out of English fiction all that which has
owed its birth more or less to a desire of earning money honourably, and the residue would
be painfully small. The truth, indeed, seems to be simple. No good work is done when the one
impelling motive is the desire of making a little money; but some of the best work that has
ever been done has been indirectly due to the impecuniosity of the labourers. When a man is
empty he makes a very poor job of it, in straining colourless trash from his hardbound brains;
but when his mind is full to bursting he may still require the spur of a moderate craving for
cash to induce him to take the decisive plunge. Scott illustrates both cases. The melancholy
drudgery of his later years was forced from him in spite of nature; but nobody ever wrote more
spontaneously than Scott when he was composing his early poems and novels. If the precedent
of Shakespeare is good for anything, it is good for this. Shakespeare, it may be, had a more
moderate ambition; but there seems to be no reason why the desire of a good house at Stratford
should be intrinsically nobler than the desire of a fine estate at Abbotsford. But then, it
is urged, Scott allowed himself to write with preposterous haste. And Shakespeare, who never
blotted a line! What is the great difference between them? Mr. Carlyle feels that here too
Scott has at least a very good precedent to allege; but he endeavours to establish a distinction.
It was right, he says, for Shakespeare to write rapidly, 'being ready to do it. And herein
truly lies the secret of the matter; such swiftness of writing, after due energy of preparation,
is, doubtless, the right method; the hot furnace having long worked and simmered, let the pure
gold flow out at one gush.' Could there be a better description of Scott in his earlier years?
He published his first poem of any pretensions at thirty-four, an age which Shelley and Keats
never reached, and which Byron only passed by two years. 'Waverley' came out when he was forty-three--most
of our modern novelists have written themselves out long before they arrive at that respectable
period of life. From a child he had been accumulating the knowledge and the thoughts that at
last found expression in his work. He had been a teller of stories before he was well in breeches;
and had worked hard till middle life in accumulating vast stores of picturesque imagery. The
delightful notes to all his books give us some impression of the fulness of mind which poured
forth a boundless torrent of anecdote to the guests at Abbotsford. We only repine at the prodigality
of the harvest when we forget the long process of culture by which it was produced. And, more
than this, when we look at the peculiar characteristics of Scott's style--that easy flow of
narrative never heightening into epigram, and indeed, to speak the truth, full of slovenly
blunders and amazing grammatical solecisms, but also always full of a charm of freshness and
fancy most difficult to analyse--we may well doubt whether much labour would have improved
or injured him. No man ever depended more on the perfectly spontaneous flow of his narratives.
Carlyle quotes Schiller against him, amongst other and greater names. We need not attempt to
compare the two men; but do not Schiller's tragedies smell rather painfully of the lamp? Does
not the professor of æsthetics pierce a little too distinctly through the exterior of the poet?
And, for one example, are not Schiller's excellent but remarkably platitudinous peasants in
'William Tell' miserably colourless alongside of Scott's rough border dalesmen, racy of speech,
and redolent of their native soil in every word and gesture? To every man his method according
to his talent. Scott is the most perfectly delightful of story-tellers, and it is the very
essence of story-telling that it should not follow prescribed canons of criticism, but be as
natural as the talk by firesides, and, it is to be feared, over many gallons of whisky-toddy,
of which it is, in fact, the refined essence. Scott skims off the cream of his varied stores
of popular tradition and antiquarian learning with strange facility; but he had tramped through
many a long day's march, and pored over innumerable ballads and forgotten writers, before he
had anything to skim. Had he not--if we may use the word without offence--been cramming all
his life, and practising the art of story-telling every day he lived? Probably the most striking
incidents of his books are in reality mere modifications of anecdotes which he had rehearsed
a hundred times before, just disguised enough to fit into his story. Who can read, for example,
the inimitable legend of the blind piper in 'Redgauntlet' without seeing that it bears all
the marks of long elaboration as clearly as one of those discourses of Whitfield, which, by
constant repetition, became marvels of dramatic art? He was an impromptu composer, in the sense
that when his anecdotes once reached paper, they flowed rapidly, and were little corrected;
but the correction must have been substantially done in many cases long before they appeared
in the state of 'copy.'

Let us, however, pursue the indictment a little further. Scott did not believe in anything
in particular. Yet once more, did Shakespeare? There is surely a poetry of doubt as well as
a poetry of conviction, or what shall we say to 'Hamlet'? Appearing in such an age as the end
of the last and the beginning of this century, Scott could but share the intellectual atmosphere
in which he was born, and at that day, whatever we may think of this, few people had any strong
faith to boast of. Why should not a poet stand aside from the chaos of conflicting opinions,
so far as he was able to extricate himself from the unutterable confusion around them, and
show us what was beautiful in the world as he saw it, without striving to combine the office
of prophet with his more congenial occupation? Carlyle did not mean to urge so feeble a criticism
as that Scott had no very uncompromising belief in the Thirty-nine Articles; for that is a
weakness which he would share with his critic and with his critic's idol, Goethe. The meaning
is partly given by another phrase. 'While Shakespeare works from the heart outwards, Scott,'
says Carlyle, 'works from the skin inwards, never getting near the heart of men.' The books
are addressed entirely to the everyday mind. They have nothing to do with emotions or principles,
beyond those of the ordinary country gentleman; and, we may add, of the country gentleman with
his digestion in good order, and his hereditary gout still in the distant future. The more
inspiring thoughts, the deeper passions, are seldom roused. If in his width of sympathy, and
his vivid perception of character within certain limits, he reminds us of Shakespeare, we can
find no analogy in his writings to the passion of 'Romeo and Juliet,' or to the intellectual
agony of 'Hamlet.' The charge is not really that Scott lacks faith, but that he never appeals,
one way or the other, to the faculties which make faith a vital necessity to some natures,
or lead to a desperate revolt against established faiths in others. If Byron and Scott could
have been combined; if the energetic passions of the one could have been joined to the healthy
nature and quick sympathies of the other, we might have seen another Shakespeare in the nineteenth
century. As it is, both of them are maimed and imperfect on different sides. It is, in fact,
remarkable how Scott fails when he attempts a flight into the regions where he is less at home
than in his ordinary style. Take, for instance, a passage from 'Rob Roy,' where our dear friend,
the Bailie, Nicol Jarvie, is taken prisoner by Rob Roy's amiable wife, and appeals to her feelings
of kinship. '"I dinna ken," said the undaunted Bailie, "if the kindred has ever been weel redd
out to you yet, cousin--but it's kenned, and can be proved. My mother, Elspeth Macfarlane (otherwise
Macgregor), was the wife of my father, Denison Nicol Jarvie (peace be with them baith), and
Elspeth was the daughter of Farlane Macfarlane (or MacGregor), at the shielding of Loch Sloy.
Now this Farlane Macfarlane (or Macgregor), as his surviving daughter, Maggy Macfarlane, wha
married Duncan Macnab of Stuckavrallachan, can testify, stood as near to your gudeman, Robin
MacGregor, as in the fourth degree of kindred, fur----"

'The virago lopped the genealogical tree by demanding haughtily if a stream of rushing water
acknowledged any relation with the portion withdrawn from it for the mean domestic uses of
those who dwelt on its banks?'

The Bailie is as real a human being as ever lived--as the present Lord Mayor, or Dandie Dinmont,
or Sir Walter himself; but Mrs. Macgregor has obviously just stepped off the boards of a minor
theatre, devoted to the melodrama. As long as Scott keeps to his strong ground, his figures
are as good flesh and blood as ever walked in the Saltmarket of Glasgow; when once he tries
his heroics, he too often manufactures his characters from the materials used by the frequenters
of masked balls. Yet there are many such occasions on which his genius does not desert him.
Balfour of Burley may rub shoulders against genuine Covenanters and west-country Whigs without
betraying his fictitious origin. The Master of Ravenswood attitudinises a little too much with
his Spanish cloak and his slouched hat; but we feel really sorry for him when he disappears
in the Kelpie's Flow. And when Scott has to do with his own peasants, with the thoroughbred
Presbyterian Scotchman, he can bring intense tragic interest from his homely materials. Douce
Davie Deans, distracted between his religious principles and his desire of saving his daughter's
life, and seeking relief even in the midst of his agonies by that admirable burst of spiritual
pride: 'Though I will neither exalt myself nor pull down others, I wish that every man and
woman in this land had kept the true testimony and the middle and straight path, as it were
on the ridge of a hill, where wind and water steals, avoiding right-hand snare and extremes,
and left-hand way-slidings, as well as Johnny Dodds of Farthy's acre and ae man mair that shall
be nameless'--Davie is as admirable a figure as ever appeared in fiction. It is a pity that
he was mixed up with the conventional madwoman, Madge Wildfire, and that a story most touching
in its native simplicity, was twisted and tortured into needless intricacy. The religious exaltation
of Balfour, or the religious pigheadedness of Davie Deans, are indeed given from the point
of view of the kindly humourist, rather than of one who can fully sympathise with the sublimity
of an intense faith in a homely exterior. And though many good judges hold the 'Bride of Lammermoor'
to be Scott's best performance, in virtue of the loftier passions which animate the chief actors
in the tragedy, we are, after all, called upon to sympathise as much with the gentleman of
good family who can't ask his friends to dinner without an unworthy device to hide his poverty,
as with the passionate lover whose mistress has her heart broken. In truth, this criticism
as to the absence of high passion reminds us again that Scott was a thorough Scotsman, and--for
it is necessary, even now, to avoid the queer misconception which confounds together the most
distinct races--a thorough Saxon. He belonged, that is, to the race which has in the most eminent
degree the typical English qualities. Especially his intellect had a strong substratum of downright
dogged common sense; his religion, one may conjecture, was pretty much that of all men of sense
in his time. It was that of the society which had produced and been influenced by Hume and
Adam Smith; which had dropped its old dogmas without becoming openly sceptical, but which emphatically
took 'common sense' for the motto of its philosophy. It was equally afraid of bigotry and scepticism
and had manufactured a creed out of decent compromises which served well enough for ordinary
purposes. Even Hume, a sceptic in theory, was a Tory and a Scottish patriot in politics. Scott,
who cared nothing for abstract philosophy, did not bother himself to form any definite system
of opinions; he shared Hume's political prejudices without inquiring into his philosophy. He
thoroughly detested the dogmatism of the John Knox variety, and considered the Episcopal Church
to offer the religion for a gentleman. But his common sense in such matters was chiefly shown
by not asking awkward questions and adopting the creed which was most to his taste without
committing himself to any strong persuasion as to abstract truth. He would, on the whole, leave
such matters alone, an attitude of mind which was not to Carlyle's taste. In the purely artistic
direction, this common sense is partly responsible for the defect which has been so often noticed
in Scott's heroes. Your genuine Scot is indeed as capable of intense passion as any human being
in the world. Burns is proof enough of the fact if anyone doubted it. But Scott was a man of
more massive and less impulsive character. If he had strong passions, they were ruled by his
common sense; he kept them well in hand, and did not write till the period of youthful effervescence
was over. His heroes always seem to be described from the point of view of a man old enough
to see the folly of youthful passion or too old fully to sympathise with it. They are chiefly
remarkable for a punctilious pride which gives their creator some difficulty in keeping them
out of superfluous duels. When they fall in love, they always seem to feel themselves as Lovel
felt himself in the 'Antiquary,' under the eye of Jonathan Oldbuck, who was himself once in
love but has come to see that he was a fool for his pains. Certainly, somehow or other, they
are apt to be terribly wooden. Cranstoun in the 'Lay of the Last Minstrel,' Graeme in the 'Lady
of the Lake,' or Wilton in 'Marmion,' are all unspeakable bores. Waverley himself, and Lovel
in the 'Antiquary,' and Vanbeest Brown in 'Guy Mannering,' and Harry Morton in 'Old Mortality,'
and, in short, the whole series of Scott's pattern young men, are all chips of the same block.
They can all run, and ride, and fight, and make pretty speeches, and express the most becoming
sentiments; but somehow they all partake of one fault, the same which was charged against the
otherwise incomparable horse, namely, that they are dead. And we must confess that this is
a considerable drawback from Scott's novels. To take the passion out of a novel is something
like taking the sunlight out of a landscape; and to condemn all the heroes to be utterly commonplace
is to remove the centre of interest in a manner detrimental to the best intents of the story.
When Thackeray endeavoured to restore Rebecca to her rightful place in 'Ivanhoe,' he was only
doing what is more or less desirable in all the series. We long to dismount these insipid creatures
from the pride of place, and to supplant them by some of the admirable characters who are doomed
to play subsidiary parts. There is, however, another reason for this weakness which seems to
be overlooked by many of Scott's critics. We are often referred to Scott as a master of pure
and what is called 'objective' story-telling. Certainly I don't deny that Scott could be an
admirable story-teller: 'Ivanhoe' and the 'Bride of Lammermoor' would be sufficient to convict
me of error if I did. But as mere stories, many of his novels--and moreover his masterpieces--are
not only faulty, but distinctly bad. Taking him purely and simply from that point of view,
he is very inferior, for example, to Alexandre Dumas. You cannot follow the thread of most
of his narratives with any particular interest in the fate of the chief actors. In the 'Introductory
Epistle' prefixed to the 'Fortunes of Nigel' Scott himself gives a very interesting account
of his method. He has often, he says in answer to an imaginary critic, begun by laying down
a plan of his work and tried to construct an ideal story, evolving itself by due degrees and
ending by a proper catastrophe. But, a demon seats himself on his pen, and leads it astray.
Characters expand; incidents multiply; the story lingers while the materials increase; Bailie
Jarvie or Dugald Dalgetty leads him astray, and he goes many a weary mile from the regular
road and has to leap hedge and ditch to get back. If he resists the temptation, his imagination
flags and he becomes prosy and dull. No one can read his best novels without seeing the truth
of this description. 'Waverley' made an immense success as a description of new scenes and
social conditions: the story of Waverley himself is the least interesting part of the book.
Everybody who has read 'Guy Mannering' remembers Dandie Dinmont and Meg Merrilies and Pleydell
and Dominie Sampson; but how many people could explain the ostensible story--the love affair
of Vanbeest Brown and Julia Mannering? We can see how Scott put the story together. He was
pouring out the most vivid and interesting recollections of the borderers whom he knew so well,
of the old Scottish gentry and smugglers and peasants, and the old-fashioned lawyers who played
high jinks in the wynds of Edinburgh. No more delightful collection of portraits could be brought
together. But he had to get a story as a thread. He started with the legend about an astrological
prediction told of Dryden and one of his sons, and mixed it up with the Annesley case, where
a claimant turned up with more plausibility than the notorious Orton. This introduced of necessity
an impossible and conventional bit of lovemaking and a recognition of a long-lost heir. He
is full of long-lost heirs. Equally conventional and impossible stories are introduced in the
'Antiquary,' the 'Heart of Midlothian,' and the 'Legend of Montrose' and elsewhere. Nobody
cares about them, and the characters which ostensibly play the chief part serve merely to introduce
us to the subordinate actors. 'Waverley,' for example, gives a description drawn with unsurpassable
spirit of the state of the Highland clans in 1745; and poor Waverley's love affair passes altogether
out of sight during the greatest and most interesting part of the narrative. When Moore said
of the poems that Scott intended to illustrate all the gentlemen's seats between Edinburgh
and London, he was not altogether wide of the mark. The novels are all illustrations--not of
'gentlemen's seats' indeed, but of various social states; and it is only by a kind of happy
accident when this interest in the surroundings does not put the chief characters out of focus.
Nobody has created a greater number of admirable types, but when we run over their names we
perceive that in most cases they are the secondary performers who are ousting the nominal heroes
and heroines from their places. Dugald Dalgetty, for example, becomes so attractive that he
squeezes all the other actors into a mere corner of the canvas. Perhaps nothing more is necessary
to explain why Scott failed as a dramatist. With him, Hamlet would have been a mere peg to
show us how Rosencrantz and Guildenstern amused themselves at the royal drinking parties.

For this reason, again, Scott bestows an apparently disproportionate amount of imagination
upon the mere scene-painting, the external trappings, the clothes, or dwelling-places of his
performers. A traveller into a strange country naturally gives us the external peculiarities
which strike him. Scott has to tell us what 'completed the costume' of his Highland chiefs
or mediæval barons. He took, in short, to that 'buff-jerkin' business of which Carlyle speaks
so contemptuously, and fairly carried away the hearts of his contemporaries by a lavish display
of mediæval upholstery. Lockhart tells us that Scott could not bear the commonplace daubings
of walls with uniform coats of white, blue, and grey. All the roofs at Abbotsford 'were, in
appearance at least, of carved oak, relieved by coats-of-arms duly blazoned at the intersections
of beams, and resting on cornices, to the eye of the same material, but composed of casts in
plaster of Paris, after the foliage, the flowers, the grotesque monsters and dwarfs, and sometimes
the beautiful heads of nuns and confessors, on which he had doated from infancy among the cloisters
of Melrose Abbey.' The plaster looks as well as the carved oak for a time; but the day speedily
comes when the sham crumbles into ashes, and Scott's knights and nobles, like his carved cornices,
became dust in the next generation. It is hard to say it, and yet we fear it must be admitted,
that many of those historical novels, which once charmed all men, and for which we have still
a lingering affection, are rapidly converting themselves into mere débris of plaster of Paris.
Sir F. Palgrave says somewhere that 'historical novels are mortal enemies to history,' and
we are often tempted to add that they are mortal enemies to fiction. There maybe an exception
or two, but as a rule the task is simply impracticable. The novelist is bound to come so near
to the facts that we feel the unreality of his portraits. Either the novel becomes pure cram,
a dictionary of antiquities dissolved in a thin solution of romance, or, which is generally
more refreshing, it takes leave of accuracy altogether and simply takes the plot and the costume
from history, but allows us to feel that genuine moderns are masquerading in the dress of a
bygone century. Even in the last case, it generally results in a kind of dance in fetters and
a comparative breakdown under self-imposed obligations. 'Ivanhoe' and 'Kenilworth' and 'Quentin
Durward,' and the rest are of course audacious anachronisms for the genuine historian. Scott
was imposed upon by his own fancy. He was probably not aware that his Balfour of Burley was
real flesh and blood, because painted from real people round him, while his Claverhouse is
made chiefly of plumes and jackboots. Scott is chiefly responsible for the odd perversion of
facts, which reached its height, as Macaulay remarks, in the marvellous performance of our
venerated ruler, George IV. That monarch, he observes, 'thought that he could not give a more
striking proof of his respect for the usages which had prevailed in Scotland before the Union
than by disguising himself in what, before the Union, was considered by nine Scotchmen out
of ten as the dress of a thief.' The passage recalls the too familiar anecdote about Scott
and the wine-glass consecrated by the sacred lips of his king. At one of the portrait exhibitions
in South Kensington was hung up a representation of George IV., with the body of a stalwart
highlander in full costume, some seven or eight feet high; the face formed from the red puffy
cheeks developed by innumerable bottles of port and burgundy at Carlton House; and the whole
surmounted by a bonnet with waving plumes. Scott was chiefly responsible for disguising that
elderly London debauchee in the costume of a wild Gaelic cattle-stealer, and was apparently
insensible of the gross absurdity. We are told that an air of burlesque was thrown over the
proceedings at Holyrood by the apparition of a true London alderman in the same costume as
his master. An alderman who could burlesque such a monarch must indeed have been a credit to
his turtle-soup. Let us pass by with a brief lamentation that so great and good a man laid
himself open to Carlyle's charge of sham worship. We have lost our love of buff jerkins and
other scraps from mediæval museums, and Scott is suffering from having preferred working in
stucco to carving in marble. We are perhaps inclined to saddle Scott unconsciously with the
sins of a later generation. Borrow, in his delightful 'Lavengro,' meets a kind of Jesuit in
disguise in that sequestered dell where he beats 'the Blazing Tinman.' The Jesuit, if I remember
rightly, confides to him that Scott was a tool of that diabolical conspiracy which has infected
our old English Protestantism with the poison of modern Popery. And, though the evil may be
traced further back, and was due to more general causes than the influence of any one writer,
Scott was clearly responsible in his degree for certain recent phenomena. The buff jerkin became
the lineal ancestor of various copes, stoles, and chasubles which stink in the nostrils of
honest dissenters. Our modern revivalists profess to despise the flimsiness of the first attempts
in this direction. They laugh at the carpenter's Gothic of Abbotsford or Strawberry Hill, and
do not ask themselves how their own more elaborate blundering will look in the eyes of a future
generation. What will our posterity think of our masquerading in old clothes? Will they want
a new Cromwell to sweep away nineteenth-century shams, as his ancestors smashed mediæval ruins,
or will they, as we may rather hope, be content to let our pretentious rubbish find its natural
road to ruin? One thing is pretty certain, and in its way comforting; that, however far the
rage for revivalism may be pushed, nobody will ever want to revive the nineteenth century.
But for Scott, in spite of his complicity in this wearisome process, there is something still
to be said. 'Ivanhoe' cannot be given up. The vivacity of the description--the delight with
which Scott throws himself into the pursuit of his knicknacks and antiquarian rubbish, has
something contagious about it. 'Ivanhoe,' let it be granted, is no longer a work for men, but
it still is, or still ought to be, delightful reading for boys. The ordinary boy, indeed, when
he reads anything, seems to choose descriptions of the cricket-matches and boat-races in which
his soul most delights. If 'Ivanhoe' has been exploded by Professor Freeman, it did good work
in its day. If it were possible for a critic to weigh the merits of a great man in a balance,
and to decide precisely how far his excellences exceed his defects, we should have to set off
Scott's real services to the spread of a genuine historical spirit against the encouragement
which he afforded to its bastard counterfeit. To enable us rightly to appreciate our forefathers,
to recognise that they were living men, and to feel our close connection with them, is to put
a vivid imagination to one of its worthiest uses. It was perhaps inevitable that we should
learn to appreciate our ancestors by paying them the doubtful compliment of external mimicry;
and that only by slow degrees, and at the price of much humiliating experience, should we learn
the simple lesson that a childish adult has not the grace of childhood. Even in his errors,
however, Scott had the merit of unconsciousness, which is fast disappearing from our more elaborate
affectations; and, therefore, though we regret, we are not irritated by his weakness and deficiency
in true insight. He really enjoys his playthings too naïvely for the pleasure not to be a little
contagious, when we can descend from our critical dignity. In his later work, indeed, the effort
becomes truly painful, tending more to the provocation of sadness than of anger. But that work
is best forgotten except as an occasional warning.

Scott, however, understood, and nobody has better illustrated by example, the true mode of
connecting past and present. Mr. Palgrave, whose recognition of the charm of Scott's lyrics
merits our gratitude, observes in the notes to the 'Golden Treasury' that the songs about Brignall
banks and Rosabelle exemplify 'the peculiar skill with which Scott employs proper names;' nor,
he adds, 'is there a surer sign of high poetical genius.' The last remark might possibly be
disputed; if Milton possessed the same talent, so did Lord Macaulay, whose ballads, admirable
as they are, are not first-rate poetry; but the conclusion to which the remark points is one
which is illustrated by each of these cases. The secret of the power is simply this, that a
man whose mind is full of historical associations somehow communicates to us something of the
sentiment which they awake in himself. Scott, as all who saw him tell us, could never see an
old tower, or a bank, or a rush of a stream without instantly recalling a boundless collection
of appropriate anecdotes. He might be quoted as a case in point by those who would explain
all poetical imagination by the power of associating ideas. He is the poet of association.
A proper name acts upon him like a charm. It calls up the past days, the heroes of the '41,
or the skirmish of Drumclog, or the old Covenanting times, by a spontaneous and inexplicable
magic. When the barest natural object is taken into his imagination, all manner of past fancies
and legends crystallise around it at once.

Though it is more difficult to explain how the same glow which ennobled them to him is conveyed
to his readers, the process somehow takes place. We catch the enthusiasm. A word, which strikes
us as a bare abstraction in the report of the Censor General, say, or in a collection of poor
law returns, gains an entirely new significance when he touches it in the most casual manner.
A kind of mellowing atmosphere surrounds all objects in his pages, and tinges them with poetical
hues. Even the Scottish dialect, repulsive to some ignorant Southrons, becomes musical to his
true admirers. In this power lies one secret of Scott's most successful writing. Thus, for
example, I often fancy that the second title of 'Waverley'--''Tis Sixty Years Since'--indicates
precisely the distance of time at which a romantic novelist should place himself from his creations.
They are just far enough from us to have acquired a certain picturesque colouring, which conceals
the vulgarity, and yet leaves them living and intelligible beings. His best stories might be
all described as 'Tales of a Grandfather.' They have the charm of anecdotes told to the narrator
by some old man who had himself been part of what he describes. Scott's best novels depend,
for their deep interest, upon the scenery and society with which he had been familiar in his
early days, more or less harmonised by removal to what we may call, in a different sense from
the common one, the twilight of history; that period, namely, from which the broad glare of
the present has departed, and which we can yet dimly observe without making use of the dark
lantern of ancient historians, and accepting the guidance of Dryasdust. Dandie Dinmont, though
a contemporary of Scott's youth, represented a fast perishing phase of society; and Balfour
of Burley, though his day was past, had yet left his mantle with many spiritual descendants
who were scarcely less familiar. Between the times so fixed Scott seems to exhibit his genuine
power; and within these limits we should find it hard to name any second, or indeed any third.

Indeed, when we have gone as far as we please in denouncing shams, ridiculing men in buff-jerkins,
and the whole Wardour Street business of gimcrack and Brummagem antiquities, it still remains
true that Scott's great service was what we may call the vivification of history. He made us
feel, it is generally said, as no one had ever made us feel before, that the men of the past
were once real human beings; and I can agree if I am permitted to make a certain distinction.
His best service, I should say, was not so much in showing us the past as it was when it was
present; but in showing us the past as it is really still present. His knights and crusaders
and feudal nobles are after all unreal, and the best critics felt even in his own day that
his greatest triumphs were in describing the Scottish peasantry of his time. Dandie Dinmont
and Jeanie Deans and their like are better than many Front de Boeufs and Robin Hoods. It is
in dealing with his own contemporaries that he really shows the imaginative insight which entitles
him to be called a great creator as well as an amusing story-teller. But this, rightly stated,
is not inconsistent with the previous statement. For the special characteristic of Scott as
distinguished from his predecessors is precisely his clear perception that the characters whom
he loved so well and described so vividly were the products of a long historical evolution.
His patriotism was the love of a country in which everything had obvious roots in its previous
history. The stout farmer Dinmont was the descendant of the old borderers; the Deanses were
survivals from the days of the Covenanters or of John Knox; every peculiarity upon which he
delighted to dwell was invested with all the charm of descent from a long and picturesque history.
When Fielding describes the squires or lawyers of the eighteenth century, he says nothing to
show that he was even aware of the existence of a seventeenth, or still less of a sixteenth
century. Scott can describe no character without assigning to it its place in the social organism
which has been growing up since the earliest dawn of history. This was, of course, no accident.
He came at the time when the little provincial centres were just feeling the first invasion
of the great movements from without. Edinburgh, whether quite comparable to Athens or not,
had been for two or three generations a remarkable centre of intellectual cultivation. Hume
and Adam Smith were only the most conspicuous members of a society which monopolised pretty
well all the philosophy which existed in the island and a great deal of the history and criticism.
In Scott's time the patriotic feeling which had been a blind instinct was becoming more or
less self-conscious. The literary society in which Scott was leader of the Tories, and Jeffrey
of the Whigs, included a large proportion of the best intellect of the time and was sufficiently
in contact with the outside world to be conscious of its own characteristics. When the crash
of the French Revolution came in Scott's youth, Burke denounced its à priori abstract reasonings
in the name of prescription. A traditional order and belief were essential, as he urged, to
the well-being of every human society. What Scott did afterwards was precisely to show by concrete
instances, most vividly depicted, the value and interest of a natural body of traditions. Like
many other of his ablest contemporaries, he saw with alarm the great movement, of which the
French Revolution was the obvious embodiment, sweeping away all manner of local traditions
and threatening to engulf the little society which still retained its specific character in
Scotland. He was stirred, too, in his whole nature when any sacrilegious reformer threatened
to sweep away any part of the true old Scottish system. And this is, in fact, the moral implicitly
involved in Scott's best work. Take the beggar, for example, Edie Ochiltree, the old 'bluegown.'
Beggars, you say, are a nuisance and would be sentenced to starvation by Mr. Malthus in the
name of an abstract principle of population. But look, says Scott, at the old-fashioned beggar
as he really was. He had his place in society; he was the depository of the legends of the
whole country-side: chatting with the lairds, the confidential friend of fishermen, peasants,
and farmers; the oracle in all sports and ruler of village feasts; repaying in friendly offices
far more than the value of the alms which he took as a right; a respecter of old privileges,
because he had privileges himself; and ready when the French came to take his part in fighting
for the old country. There can be no fear for a country, says Scott, where even the beggar
is as ready to take up arms as the noble. The bluegown, in short, is no waif and stray, no
product of social corruption, or mere obnoxious parasite, but a genuine member of the fabric,
who could respect himself and scorn servility as much as the highest members of the social
hierarchy. Scott, as Lockhart tells us, was most grievously wounded by the insults of the Radical
mob in Selkirk, who cried 'Burke Sir Walter!' in the place where all men had loved and honoured
him. It was the meeting of the old and new, and the revelation to Scott in brutal terms of
the new spirit which was destroying all the old social ties. Scott and Wordsworth and Coleridge
and Southey and their like saw in fact the approach of that industrial revolution, as we call
it now, which for good or evil has been ever since developing. The Radicals denounced them
as mere sentimentalists; the solid Whigs, who fancied that the revolution was never to get
beyond the Reform Bill of 1832, laughed at them as mere obstructives; by us, who, whatever
our opinions, speak with the advantage of later experience, it must be admitted that such Conservatism
had its justification, and that good and far-seeing men might well look with alarm at changes
whose far-reaching consequences cannot yet be estimated. Scott, meanwhile, is the incomparable
painter of the sturdy race which he loved so well--a race high-spirited, loyal to its principles,
surpassingly energetic, full of strong affections and manly spirits, if crabbed, bigoted, and
capable of queer perversity and narrow self-conceit. Nor, if we differ from his opinions, can
anyone who desires to take a reasonable view of history doubt the interest and value of the
conceptions involved. Scott was really the first imaginative observer who saw distinctly how
the national type of character is the product of past history, and embodies all the great social
forces by which it has slowly shaped itself. That is the new element in his portraiture of
human life; and we may pardon him if he set rather too high a value upon the picturesque elements
which he had been the first to recognise. One of the acutest of recent writers upon politics,
the late Mr. Bagehot, has insisted upon the immense value of what he called a 'solid cake of
customs,' and the thought is more or less familiar to every writer of the evolutionist way
of thinking. Scott, without any philosophy to speak of, political or otherwise, saw and recognised
intuitively a typical instance. He saw how much the social fabric had been woven out of ancient
tradition; and he made others see it more clearly than could be done by any abstract reasoner.

When naturalists wish to preserve a skeleton, they bury an animal in an ant-hill and dig him
up after many days with all the perishable matter fairly eaten away. That is the process which
great men have to undergo. A vast multitude of insignificant, unknown, and unconscious critics
destroy what has no genuine power of resistance, and leave the remainder for posterity. Much
disappears in every case, and it is a question, perhaps, whether the firmer parts of Scott's
reputation will be sufficiently coherent to resist after the removal of the rubbish. We must
admit that even his best work is of more or less mixed value, and that the test will be a severe
one. Yet we hope, not only for reasons already suggested, but for one which remains to be expressed.
The ultimate source of pleasure derivable from all art is that it brings you into communication
with the artist. What you really love in the picture or the poem is the painter or the poet
whom it brings into sympathy with you across the gulf of time. He tells you what are the thoughts
which some fragment of natural scenery, or some incident of human life, excited in a mind greatly
wiser and more perceptive than your own. A dramatist or a novelist professes to describe different
actors on his little scene, but he is really setting forth the varying phases of his own mind.
And so Dandie Dinmont, or the Antiquary, or Balfour of Burley, is merely the conductor through
which Scott's personal magnetism affects our own natures. And certainly, whatever faults a
critic may discover in the work, it may be said that no work in our literature places us in
communication with a manlier or more lovable nature. Scott, indeed, setting up as the landed
proprietor at Abbotsford, and solacing himself with painted plaster of Paris instead of carved
oak, does not strike us, any more than he does Carlyle, as a very noble phenomenon. But luckily
for us, we have also the Scott who must have been the most charming of all conceivable companions;
the Scott who was idolised even by a judicious pig; the Scott, who, unlike the irritable race
of literary magnates in general, never lost a friend, and whose presence diffused an equable
glow of kindly feeling to the farthest limits of the social system which gravitated round him.
He was not precisely brilliant; nobody, so far as we know, who wrote so many sentences has
left so few that have fixed themselves upon us as established commonplaces; beyond that unlucky
phrase about 'my name being MacGregor and my foot being on my native heath'--which is not a
very admirable sentiment--I do not at present remember a single gem of this kind. Landor, I
think, said that in the whole of Scott's poetry there was only one good line, that, namely,
in the poem about Helvellyn referring to the dog of the lost man--

    When the wind waved his garments, how oft didst thou start!

Scott is not one of the coruscating geniuses, throwing out epigrams at every turn, and sparkling
with good things. But the poetry, which was first admired to excess and then rejected with
undue contempt, is now beginning to find its due level. It is not poetry of the first order.
It is not the poetry of deep meditation or of rapt enthusiasm. Much that was once admired has
now become rather offensive than otherwise. And yet it has a charm, which becomes more sensible
the more familiar we grow with it, the charm of unaffected and spontaneous love of nature;
and not only is it perfectly in harmony with the nature which Scott loved so well, but it is
still the best interpreter of the sound healthy love of wild scenery. Wordsworth, no doubt,
goes deeper; and Byron is more vigorous; and Shelley more ethereal. But it is, and will remain,
a good thing to have a breath from the Cheviots brought straight into London streets, as Scott
alone can do it. When Washington Irving visited Scott, they had an amicable dispute as to the
scenery: Irving, as became an American, complaining of the absence of forests; Scott declaring
his love for 'his honest grey hills,' and saying that if he did not see the heather once a
year he thought he should die. Everybody who has refreshed himself with mountain and moor this
summer should feel how much we owe, and how much more we are likely to owe in future, to the
man who first inoculated us with his own enthusiasm, and who is still the best interpreter
of the 'honest grey hills.' Scott's poetical faculty may, perhaps, be more felt in his prose
than his verse. The fact need not be decided; but as we read the best of his novels we feel
ourselves transported to the 'distant Cheviot's blue;' mixing with the sturdy dalesmen, and
the tough indomitable puritans of his native land; for their sakes we can forgive the exploded
feudalism and the faded romance which he attempted with less success to galvanise into life.
The pleasure of that healthy open-air life, with that manly companion, is not likely to diminish;
and Scott as its exponent may still retain a hold upon our affections which would have been
long ago forfeited if he had depended entirely on his romantic nonsense. We are rather in the
habit of talking about a healthy animalism, and try most elaborately to be simple and manly.
When we turn from our modern professors in that line, who affect a total absence of affectation,
to Scott's Dandie Dinmonts and Edie Ochiltrees, we see the difference between the sham and
the reality, and fancy that Scott may still have a lesson or two to preach to this generation.
Those to come must take care of themselves.

NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE

The most obvious fact about Hawthorne is that he gave one solution of the problem what elements
of romance are discoverable amongst the harsh prose of this prosaic age. How is the novelist
who, by the inevitable conditions of his style, is bound to come into the closest possible
contact with facts, who has to give us the details of his hero's clothes, to tell us what he
had for breakfast, and what is the state of the balance at his banker's--how is he to introduce
the ideal element which must, in some degree, be present in all genuine art? What precisely
is meant by 'ideal' is a question which for the moment I pretermit. Anyhow a mere photographic
reproduction of this muddy, money-making, bread-and-butter-eating world would be intolerable.
At the very lowest, some effort must be made at least to select the most promising materials,
and to strain out the coarse or the simply prosaic ingredients. Various attempts have been
made to solve the problem since De Foe founded the modern school of English novelists, by giving
us what is in one sense a servile imitation of genuine narrative, but which is redeemed from
prose by the unique force of the situation. De Foe painting mere everyday pots and pans is
as dull as a modern blue-book; but when his pots and pans are the resource by which a human
being struggles out of the most appalling conceivable 'slough of despond,' they become more
poetical than the vessels from which the gods drink nectar in epic poems. Since he wrote, novelists
have made many voyages of discovery, with varying success, though they have seldom had the
fortune to touch upon so marvellous an island as that still sacred to the immortal Crusoe.
They have ventured far into cloud-land, and, returning to terra firma, they have plunged into
the trackless and savage-haunted regions which are girdled by the Metropolitan Railway. They
have watched the magic coruscations of some strange 'Aurora Borealis' of dim romance, or been
content with the domestic gaslight of London streets. Amongst the most celebrated of all such
adventurers were the band which obeyed the impulse of Sir Walter Scott. For a time it seemed
that we had reached a genuine Eldorado of novelists, where solid gold was to be had for the
asking, and visions of more than earthly beauty rewarded the labours of the explorer. Now,
alas! our opinion is a good deal changed; the fairy treasures which Scott brought back from
his voyages have turned into dead leaves according to custom; and the curiosities, upon which
he set so extravagant a price, savour more of Wardour Street than of the genuine mediæval artists.
Nay, there are scoffers, though I am not of them, who think that the tittle-tattle which Miss
Austen gathered at the country-houses of our grandfathers is worth more than the showy but
rather flimsy eloquence of the 'Ariosto of the North.' Scott endeavoured at least, if with
indifferent success, to invest his scenes with something of

    The light that never was on sea or land,
    The consecration and the poet's dream.

If he too often indulged in mere theatrical devices, and mistook the glare of the footlights
for the sacred glow of the imagination, he professed, at least, to introduce us to an ideal
world. Later novelists have generally abandoned the attempt, and are content to reflect our
work-a-day life with almost servile fidelity. They are not to be blamed; and doubtless the
very greatest writers are those who can bring their ideal world into the closest possible contact
with our sympathies, and show us heroic figures in modern frock-coats and Parisian fashions.
The art of story-telling is manifold, and its charm depends greatly upon the infinite variety
of its applications. And yet, for that very reason, there are moods in which one wishes that
the modern story-teller would more frequently lead us away from the commonplace region of newspapers
and railways to regions where the imagination can have fair play. Hawthorne is one of the few
eminent writers to whose guidance we may in such moods most safely entrust ourselves; and it
is tempting to ask, what was the secret of his success? The effort, indeed, to investigate
the materials from which some rare literary flavour is extracted is seldom satisfactory. We
are reminded of the automaton chess-player who excited the wonder of the last generation. The
showman, like the critic, laid bare his inside, and displayed all the cunning wheels and cogs
and cranks by which his motions were supposed to be regulated. Yet, after all, the true secret
was that there was a man inside the machine. Some such impression is often made by the most
elaborate demonstrations of literary anatomists. We have been mystified, not really entrusted
with any revelation. And yet, with this warning as to the probable success of our examination,
let us try to determine some of the peculiarities to which Hawthorne owes this strange power
of bringing poetry out of the most unpromising materials.

In the first place, then, he had the good fortune to be born in the most prosaic of all countries--the
most prosaic, that is, in external appearance, and even in the superficial character of its
inhabitants. Hawthorne himself reckoned this as an advantage, though in a very different sense
from that in which we are speaking. It was as a patriot, and not as an artist, that he congratulated
himself on his American origin. There is a humorous struggle between his sense of the rawness
and ugliness of his native land and the dogged patriotism befitting a descendant of the genuine
New England Puritans. Hawthorne the novelist writhes at the discords which torture his delicate
sensibilities at every step; but instantly Hawthorne the Yankee protests that the very faults
are symptomatic of excellence. He is like a sensitive mother, unable to deny that her awkward
hobbledehoy of a son offends against the proprieties, but tacitly resolved to see proofs of
virtues present or to come even in his clumsiest tricks. He forces his apologies to sound like
boasting. It will be very long, I trust, before romance-writers may find congenial and easily-handled
themes either in the annals of our stalwart republic, or in any characteristic and probable
events of our individual lives. Romance and poetry, ivy, lichens, and wallflowers need ruins
to make them grow.' If, that is, I am forced to confess that poetry and romance are absent,
I will resolutely stick to it that poetry and romance are bad things, even though the love
of them is the strongest propensity of my nature. To my thinking, there is something almost
pathetic in this loyal self-deception; and therefore I have never been offended by certain
passages in 'Our Old Home' which appear to have caused some irritation in touchy Englishmen.
There is something, he says by way of apology, which causes an American in England to take
up an attitude of antagonism. But that which really caused him to cherish his antagonism was,
I suspect, something else: he was afraid of loving us too well; he feared to be tempted into
a denial of some point of his patriotic creed; he is always clasping it, as it were, to his
bosom, and vowing and protesting that he does not surrender a single jot or tittle of it. Hawthorne
in England was like a plant suddenly removed to a rich soil from a dry and thirsty land. He
drinks in at every pore the delightful influences of which he has had so scanty a supply. An
old cottage, an ivy-grown wall, a country churchyard with its quaint epitaphs, things that
are commonplace to most Englishmen and which are hateful to the sanitary inspector, are refreshing
to every fibre of his soul. He tries in vain to take the sanitary inspector's view. In spite
of himself he is always falling into the romantic tone, though a sense that he ought to be
sternly philosophical just gives a humorous tinge to his enthusiasm. Charles Lamb could not
have improved his description of the old hospital at Leicester, where the twelve brethren still
wear the badge of the Bear and Ragged Staff. He lingers round it, and gossips with the brethren,
and peeps into the garden, and sits by the cavernous archway of the kitchen fireplace, where
the very atmosphere seems to be redolent with aphorisms first uttered by ancient monks, and
jokes derived from Master Slender's note-book, and gossip about the wrecks of the Spanish Armada.
No connoisseur could pore more lovingly over an ancient black-letter volume, or the mellow
hues of some old painter's masterpiece. He feels the charm of our historical continuity, where
the immemorial past blends indistinguishably with the present, to the remotest recesses of
his imagination. But then the Yankee nature within him must put in a sharp word or two; he
has to jerk the bridle for fear that his enthusiasm should fairly run away with him. Charlecote
Hall, he presently admits, 'is a most delightful place.' Even an American is tempted to believe
that real homes can only be produced by 'the slow ingenuity and labour of many successive generations,'
when he sees the elaborate beauty and perfection of a well-ordered English abode. And yet he
persuades himself that even here he is the victim of some delusion. The impression is due to
the old man which stills lurks even in the polished American, and forces him to look through
his ancestor's spectacles. The true theory, it appears, is that which Holgrave expresses for
him in the 'Seven Gables,' namely, that we should free ourselves of the material slavery imposed
upon us by the brick-and-mortar of past generations, and learn to change our houses as easily
as our coats. We ought to feel--only we unfortunately can't feel--that a tent or a wigwam is
as good as a house. The mode in which Hawthorne regards the Englishman himself is a quaint
illustration of the same theory. An Englishwoman, he admits reluctantly and after many protestations,
has some few beauties not possessed by her American sisters. Should not the matrimonial bond
be held to exclude the three-fourths of the wife that had no existence when the ceremony was
performed? A question not to be put without a shudder. The fact is, that Hawthorne had succeeded
only too well in misleading himself by a common fallacy. That pestilent personage, John Bull,
has assumed so concrete a form in our imaginations, with his top-boots and his broad shoulders
and vast circumference, and the emblematic bulldog at his heels, that for most observers he
completely hides the Englishman of real life. Hawthorne had decided that an Englishman must
and should be a mere mass of transformed beef and beer. No observation could shake his preconceived
impression. At Greenwich Hospital he encountered the mighty shade of the concentrated essence
of our strongest national qualities; no truer Englishman ever lived than Nelson. But Nelson
was certainly not the conventional John Bull, and, therefore, Hawthorne roundly asserts that
he was not an Englishman. He proceeds with amusing unconsciousness to generalise this ingenious
theory, and declares that all extraordinary Englishmen are sick men, and therefore deviations
from the type. When he meets another remarkable Englishman in the flesh, he applies the same
method. Of Leigh Hunt, whom he describes with warm enthusiasm, he dogmatically declares, 'there
was not an English trait in him from head to foot, morally, intellectually, or physically.'
And the reason is admirable. 'Beef, ale, or stout, brandy or port-wine, entered not at all
into his constitution.' All Englishmen are made of those ingredients, and if not, why, then,
they are not Englishmen. By the same method it is easy to show that all Englishmen are drunkards,
or that they are all teetotalers; you have only to exclude as irrelevant every case that contradicts
your theory. Hawthorne, unluckily, is by no means solitary in his mode of reasoning. The ideal
John Bull has hidden us from ourselves as well as from our neighbours, and the race which is
distinguished above all others for the magnificent wealth of its imaginative literature is
daily told--and, what is more, tells itself--that it is a mere lump of prosaic flesh and blood,
with scarcely soul enough to keep it from stagnation. If we were sensible we should burn that
ridiculous caricature of ourselves along with Guy Fawkes; but meanwhile we can hardly complain
if foreigners are deceived by our own misrepresentations.

Against Hawthorne, as I have said, I feel no grudge, though a certain regret that his sympathy
with that deep vein of poetical imagination which underlies all our 'steaks and sirloins' should
have been intercepted by this detestable lay-figure. The poetical humorist must be allowed
a certain license in dealing with facts; and poor Hawthorne, in the uncongenial atmosphere
of the Liverpool Custom-house, had doubtless much to suffer from a thick-skinned generation.
His characteristic shyness made it a hard task for him to penetrate through our outer rind--which,
to say the truth, is often elephantine enough--to the central core of heat; and we must not
complain if he was too apt to deny the existence of what to him was unattainable. But the problem
recurs--for everybody likes to ask utterly unanswerable questions--whether Hawthorne would
not have developed into a still greater artist if he had been more richly supplied with the
diet so dear to his inmost soul? Was it not a thing to weep over, that a man so keenly alive
to every picturesque influence, so anxious to invest his work with the enchanted haze of romantic
association, should be confined till middle age amongst the bleak granite rocks and the half-baked
civilisation of New England? 'Among ourselves,' he laments, 'there is no fairy land for the
romancer.' What if he had been brought up in the native home of the fairies--if there had been
thrown open to him the gates through which Shakespeare and Spenser caught their visions of
ideal beauty? Might we not have had an appendix to the 'Midsummer Night's Dream,' and might
not a modern 'Faerie Queen' have brightened the prosaic wilderness of this nineteenth century?
The question, as I have said, is rigidly unanswerable. We have not yet learnt how to breed
poets, though we have made some progress in regard to pigs. Nobody can tell, and perhaps, therefore,
it is as well that nobody should guess, what would have been the effect of transplanting Shakespeare
to modern Stratford, or of exiling him to the United States. And yet--for it is impossible
to resist entirely the pleasure of fruitless speculation--we may guess that there are some
reasons why there should be a risk in transplanting so delicate a growth as the genius of Hawthorne.
There are more ways, so wise men tell us, of killing a cat than choking it with cream; but
it is a very good way. Over-feeding produces atrophy of some of the vital functions in higher
animals than cats, and the imagination may be enfeebled rather than strengthened by an over-supply
of materials. Hawthorne, if his life had passed where the plough may turn up an antiquity in
every furrow, and the whole face of the country is enamelled with ancient culture, might have
wrought more gorgeous hues into his tissues, but he might have succumbed to the temptation
of producing mere upholstery. The fairy land for which he longed is full of dangerous enchantments,
and there are many who have lost in it the vigour which comes from breathing the keen air of
everyday life. From that risk Hawthorne was effectually preserved in his New England home.
Having to abandon the poetry which is manufactured out of mere external circumstances, he was
forced to draw it from deeper sources. With easier means at hand of enriching his pages, he
might have left the mine unworked. It is often good for us to have to make bricks without straw.
Hawthorne, who was conscious of the extreme difficulty of the problem, and but partially conscious
of the success of his solution of it, naturally complained of the severe discipline to which
he owed his strength. We who enjoy the results may feel how much he owed to the very sternness
of his education and the niggard hand with which his imaginative sustenance was dealt out to
him. The observation may sound paradoxical at the first moment, and yet it is supported by
analogy. Are not the best cooks produced just where the raw material is the worst, and precisely
because it is there worst? Now, cookery is the art by which man is most easily distinguished
from beasts, and it requires little ingenuity to transfer its lessons to literature. At the
same time it may be admitted that some closer inquiry is necessary in order to make the hypothesis
probable, and I will endeavour from this point of view to examine some of Hawthorne's exquisite
workmanship.

The story which perhaps generally passes for his masterpiece is 'Transformation,' for most
readers assume that a writer's longest book must necessarily be his best. In the present case,
I think that this method, which has its conveniences, has not led to a perfectly just conclusion.
In 'Transformation,' Hawthorne has for once the advantage of placing his characters in a land
where 'a sort of poetic or fairy precinct,' as he calls it, is naturally provided for them.
The very stones of the streets are full of romance, and he cannot mention a name that has not
a musical ring. Hawthorne, moreover, shows his usual tact in confining his aims to the possible.
He does not attempt to paint Italian life and manners; his actors belong by birth, or by a
kind of naturalisation, to the colony of the American artists in Rome; and he therefore does
not labour under the difficulty of being in imperfect sympathy with his creatures. Rome is
a mere background, and surely a most felicitous background, to the little group of persons
who are effectually detached from all such vulgarising associations with the mechanism of daily
life in less poetical countries. The centre of the group, too, who embodies one of Hawthorne's
most delicate fancies, could have breathed no atmosphere less richly perfumed with old romance.
In New York he would certainly have been in danger of a Barnum's museum, beside Washington's
nurse and the woolly horse. It is a triumph of art that a being whose nature trembles on the
very verge of the grotesque should walk through Hawthorne's pages with such undeviating grace.
In the Roman dreamland he is in little danger of such prying curiosity, though even there he
can only be kept out of harm's way by the admirable skill of his creator. Perhaps it may be
thought by some severe critics that, with all his merits, Donatello stands on the very outside
verge of the province permitted to the romancer. But without cavilling at what is indisputably
charming, and without dwelling upon certain defects of construction which slightly mar the
general beauty of the story, it has another weakness which it is impossible quite to overlook.
Hawthorne himself remarks that he was surprised, in re-writing his story, to see the extent
to which he had introduced descriptions of various Italian objects. 'Yet these things,' he
adds, 'fill the mind everywhere in Italy, and especially in Rome, and cannot be kept from flowing
out upon the page when one writes freely and with self-enjoyment.' The associations which they
called up in England were so pleasant, that he could not find it in his heart to cancel. Doubtless
that is the precise truth, and yet it is equally true that they are artistically out of place.
There are passages which recall the guide-book. To take one instance--and, certainly, it is
about the worst--the whole party is going to the Coliseum, where a very striking scene takes
place. On the way they pass a baker's shop.

'"The baker is drawing his loaves out of the oven," remarked Kenyon. "Do you smell how sour
they are? I should fancy that Minerva (in revenge for the desecration of her temples) had slyly
poured vinegar into the batch, if I did not know that the modern Romans prefer their bread
in the acetous fermentation."'

The instance is trivial, but it is characteristic. Hawthorne had doubtless remarked the smell
of the sour bread, and to him it called up a vivid recollection of some stroll in Rome; for,
of all our senses, the smell is notoriously the most powerful in awakening associations. But
then what do we who read him care about the Roman taste for bread 'in acetous fermentation?'
When the high-spirited girl is on the way to meet her tormentor, and to receive the provocation
which leads to his murder, why should we be worried by a gratuitous remark about Roman baking?
It somehow jars upon our taste, and we are certain that, in describing a New England village,
Hawthorne would never have admitted a touch which has no conceivable bearing upon the situation.
There is almost a superabundance of minute local colour in his American Romances, as, for example,
in the 'House of the Seven Gables;' but still, every touch, however minute, is steeped in the
sentiment and contributes to the general effect. In Rome the smell of a loaf is sacred to his
imagination, and intrudes itself upon its own merits, and, so far as we can discover, without
reference to the central purpose. If a baker's shop impresses him unduly because it is Roman,
the influence of ancient ruins and glorious works of art is of course still more distracting.
The mysterious Donatello, and the strange psychological problem which he is destined to illustrate,
are put aside for an interval, whilst we are called upon to listen to descriptions and meditations,
always graceful, and often of great beauty in themselves, but yet, in a strict sense, irrelevant.
Hawthorne's want of familiarity with the scenery is of course responsible for part of this
failing. Had he been a native Roman, he would not have been so preoccupied with the wonders
of Rome. But it seems that for a romance bearing upon a spiritual problem, the scenery, however
tempting, is not really so serviceable as the less prepossessing surroundings of America. The
objects have too great an intrinsic interest. A counter-attraction distorts the symmetry of
the system. In the shadow of the Coliseum and St. Peter's you cannot pay much attention to
the troubles of a young lady whose existence is painfully ephemeral. Those mighty objects will
not be relegated to the background, and condescend to act as mere scenery. They are, in fact,
too romantic for a romance. The fountain of Trevi, with all its allegorical marbles, may be
a very picturesque object to describe, but for Hawthorne's purposes it is really not equal
to the town-pump at Salem; and Hilda's poetical tower, with the perpetual light before the
Virgin's image, and the doves floating up to her from the street, and the column of Antoninus
looking at her from the heart of the city, somehow appeals less to our sympathies than the
quaint garret in the House of the Seven Gables, from which Phoebe Pyncheon watched the singular
idiosyncrasies of the superannuated breed of fowls in the garden. The garret and the pump are
designed in strict subordination to the human figures: the tower and the fountain have a distinctive
purpose of their own. Hawthorne, at any rate, seems to have been mastered by his too powerful
auxiliaries. A human soul, even in America, is more interesting to us than all the churches
and picture-galleries in the world; and, therefore, it is as well that Hawthorne should not
be tempted to the too easy method of putting fine description in place of sentiment.

But how was the task to be performed? How was the imaginative glow to be shed over the American
scenery, so provokingly raw and deficient in harmony? A similar problem was successfully solved
by a writer whose development, in proportion to her means of cultivation, is about the most
remarkable of recent literary phenomena. Miss Brontë's bleak Yorkshire moors, with their uncompromising
stone walls, and the valleys invaded by factories, are at first sight as little suited to romance
as New England itself, to which, indeed, both the inhabitants and the country have a decided
family resemblance. Now that she has discovered for us the fountains of poetic interest, we
can all see that the region is not a mere stony wilderness; but it is well worth while to make
a pilgrimage to Haworth, if only to discover how little the country corresponds to our preconceived
impressions, or, in other words, how much depends upon the eye which sees it, and how little
upon its intrinsic merits. Miss Brontë's marvellous effects are obtained by the process which
enables an 'intense and glowing mind' to see everything through its own atmosphere. The ugliest
and most trivial objects seem, like objects heated by the sun, to radiate back the glow of
passion with which she has regarded them. Perhaps this singular power is still more conspicuous
in 'Villette,' where she had even less of the raw material of poetry. An odd parallel may be
found between one of the most striking passages in 'Villette' and one in 'Transformation.'
Lucy Snowe in one novel, and Hilda in the other, are left to pass a summer vacation, the one
in Brussels and the other in pestiferous Rome. Miss Snowe has no external cause of suffering
but the natural effect of solitude upon a homeless and helpless governess. Hilda has to bear
about with her the weight of a terrible secret, affecting, it may be, even the life of her
dearest friend. Each of them wanders into a Roman Catholic church, and each, though they have
both been brought up in a Protestant home, seeks relief at the confessional. So far the cases
are alike, though Hilda, one might have fancied, has by far the strongest cause for emotion.
And yet, after reading the two descriptions--both excellent in their way--one might fancy that
the two young ladies had exchanged burdens. Lucy Snowe is as tragic as the innocent confidante
of a murderess; Hilda's feelings never seem to rise above that weary sense of melancholy isolation
which besieges us in a deserted city. It is needless to ask which is the best bit of work artistically
considered. Hawthorne's style is more graceful and flexible; his descriptions of the Roman
Catholic ceremonial and its influence upon an imaginative mind in distress are far more sympathetic,
and imply a wider range of intellect. But Hilda scarcely moves us like Lucy. There is too much
delicate artistic description of picture-galleries and of the glories of St. Peter's to allow
the poor little American girl to come prominently to the surface. We have been indulging with
her in some sad but charming speculations, and not witnessing the tragedy of a deserted soul.
Lucy Snowe has very inferior materials at her command; but somehow we are moved by a sympathetic
thrill: we taste the bitterness of the awful cup of despair which, as she tells us, is forced
to her lips in the night-watches; and are not startled when so prosaic an object as the row
of beds in the dormitory of a French school suggests to her images worthy rather of stately
tombs in the aisles of a vast cathedral, and recall dead dreams of an elder world and a mightier
race long frozen in death. Comparisons of this kind are almost inevitably unfair; but the difference
between the two illustrates one characteristic--we need not regard it as a defect--of Hawthorne.
His idealism does not consist in conferring grandeur upon vulgar objects by tinging them with
the reflection of deep emotion. He rather shrinks than otherwise from describing the strongest
passions, or shows their working by indirect touches and under a side-light. An excellent example
of his peculiar method occurs in what is in some respects the most perfect of his works, the
'Scarlet Letter.' There, again, we have the spectacle of a man tortured by a life-long repentance.
The Puritan Clergyman, reverenced as a saint by all his flock, conscious of a sin which, once
revealed, will crush him to the earth, watched with a malignant purpose by the husband whom
he has injured, unable to summon up the moral courage to tear off the veil, and make the only
atonement in his power, is a singularly striking figure, powerfully conceived and most delicately
described. He yields under terrible pressure to the temptation of escaping from the scene of
his prolonged torture with the partner of his guilt. And then, as he is returning homewards
after yielding a reluctant consent to the flight, we are invited to contemplate the agony of
his soul. The form which it takes is curiously characteristic. No vehement pangs of remorse,
or desperate hopes of escape, overpower his faculties in any simple and straightforward fashion.
The poor minister is seized with a strange hallucination. He meets a venerable deacon, and
can scarcely restrain himself from uttering blasphemies about the Communion-supper. Next appears
an aged widow, and he longs to assail her with what appears to him to be an unanswerable argument
against the immortality of the soul. Then follows an impulse to whisper impure suggestions
to a fair young maiden, whom he has recently converted. And, finally, he longs to greet a rough
sailor with a 'volley of good, round, solid, satisfactory, and heaven-defying oaths.' The minister,
in short, is in that state of mind which gives birth in its victim to a belief in diabolical
possession; and the meaning is pointed by an encounter with an old lady, who, in the popular
belief, was one of Satan's miserable slaves and dupes, the witches, and is said--for Hawthorne
never introduces the supernatural without toning it down by a supposed legendary transmission--to
have invited him to meet her at the blasphemous Sabbath in the forest. The sin of endeavouring
to escape from the punishment of his sins had brought him into sympathy with wicked mortals
and perverted spirits.

This mode of setting forth the agony of a pure mind, tainted by one irremovable blot, is undoubtedly
impressive to the imagination in a high degree; far more impressive, we may safely say, than
any quantity of such rant as very inferior writers could have poured out with the utmost facility
on such an occasion. Yet it might possibly be mentioned that a poet of the highest order would
have produced the effect by more direct means. Remorse overpowering and absorbing does not
embody itself in these recondite and, one may almost say, over-ingenious fancies. Hawthorne
does not give us so much the pure passion as some of its collateral effects. He is still more
interested in the curious psychological problem than moved by sympathy with the torture of
the soul. We pity poor Mr. Dimmesdale profoundly, but we are also interested in him as the
subject of an experiment in analytical psychology. We do not care so much for his emotions
as for the strange phantoms which are raised in his intellect by the disturbance of his natural
functions. The man is placed upon the rack, but our compassion is aroused, not by feeling our
own nerves and sinews twitching in sympathy, but by remarking the strange confusion of ideas
produced in his mind, the singularly distorted aspect of things in general introduced by such
an experience, and hence, if we please, inferring the keenness of the pangs which have produced
them. This turn of thought explains the real meaning of Hawthorne's antipathy to poor John
Bull. That worthy gentleman, we will admit, is in a sense more gross and beefy than his American
cousin. His nerves are stronger, for we need not decide whether they should be called coarser
or less morbid. He is not, in the proper sense of the word, less imaginative, for a vigorous
grasp of realities is rather a proof of a powerful than a defective imagination. But he is
less accessible to those delicate impulses which are to the ordinary passions as electricity
to heat. His imagination is more intense and less mobile. The devils which haunt the two races
partake of the national characteristics. John Bunyan, Dimmesdale's contemporary, suffered under
the pangs of a remorse equally acute, though with apparently far less cause. The devils who
tormented him whispered blasphemies in his ears; they pulled at his clothes; they persuaded
him that he had committed the unpardonable sin. They caused the very stones in the streets
and tiles on the houses, as he says, to band themselves together against him. But they had
not the refined and humorous ingenuity of the American fiends. They tempted him, as their fellows
tempted Dimmesdale, to sell his soul; but they were too much in earnest to insist upon queer
breaches of decorum. They did not indulge in that quaint play of fancy which tempts us to believe
that the devils in New England had seduced the 'tricksy spirit,' Ariel, to indulge in practical
jokes at the expense of a nobler victim than Stephano or Caliban. They were too terribly diabolical
to care whether Bunyan blasphemed in solitude or in the presence of human respectabilities.
Bunyan's sufferings were as poetical, but less conducive to refined speculation. His were the
fiends that haunt the valley of the shadow of death; whereas Hawthorne's are to be encountered
in the dim regions of twilight, where realities blend inextricably with mere phantoms, and
the mind confers only a kind of provisional existence upon the 'airy nothings' of its creation.
Apollyon does not appear armed to the teeth and throwing fiery darts, but comes as an unsubstantial
shadow threatening vague and undefined dangers, and only half-detaching himself from the background
of darkness. He is as intangible as Milton's Death, not the vivid reality which presented itself
to mediæval imaginations.

This special attitude of mind is probably easier to the American than to the English imagination.
The craving for something substantial, whether in cookery or in poetry, was that which induced
Hawthorne to keep John Bull rather at arm's length. We may trace the working of similar tendencies
in other American peculiarities. Spiritualism and its attendant superstitions are the gross
and vulgar form of the same phase of thought as it occurs in men of highly-strung nerves but
defective cultivation. Hawthorne always speaks of these modern goblins with the contempt they
deserve, for they shocked his imagination as much as his reason; but he likes to play with
fancies which are not altogether dissimilar, though his refined taste warns him that they become
disgusting when grossly translated into tangible symbols. Mesmerism, for example, plays an
important part in the 'Blithedale Romance' and the 'House of the Seven Gables,' though judiciously
softened and kept in the background. An example of the danger of such tendencies may be found
in those works of Edgar Poe, in which he seems to have had recourse to strong stimulants to
rouse a flagging imagination. What is exquisitely fanciful and airy in Hawthorne is too often
replaced in his rival by an attempt to overpower us by dabblings in the charnel-house and prurient
appeals to our fears of the horribly revolting. After reading some of Poe's stories one feels
a kind of shock to one's modesty. We require some kind of spiritual ablution to cleanse our
minds of his disgusting images; whereas Hawthorne's pure and delightful fancies, though at
times they may have led us too far from the healthy contact of everyday interests, never leave
a stain upon the imagination, and generally succeed in throwing a harmonious colouring upon
some objects in which we had previously failed to recognise the beautiful. To perform that
duty effectually is perhaps the highest of artistic merits; and though we may complain of Hawthorne's
colouring as too evanescent, its charm grows upon us the more we study it.

Hawthorne seems to have been slow in discovering the secret of his own power. The 'Twice-Told
Tales,' he tells us, are only a fragmentary selection from a great number which had an ephemeral
existence in long-forgotten magazines, and were sentenced to extinction by their author. Though
many of the survivors are very striking, no wise reader will regret that sentence. It could
be wished that other authors were as ready to bury their innocents, and that injudicious admirers
might always abstain from acting as resurrection-men. The fragments which remain, with all
their merits, are chiefly interesting as illustrating the intellectual development of their
author. Hawthorne, in his preface to the collected edition (all Hawthorne's prefaces are remarkably
instructive) tells us what to think of them. But he explains, and with perfect truth, that
though written in solitude, the book has not the abstruse tone which marks the written communications
of a solitary mind with itself. The reason is that the sketches 'are not the talk of a secluded
man with his own mind and heart, but his attempts ... to open an intercourse with the world.'
They may, in fact, be compared to Brummel's failures; and, though they do not display the perfect
grace and fitness which would justify him in presenting himself to society, they were well
worth taking up to illustrate the skill of the master's manipulation. We see him trying various
experiments to hit off that delicate mean between the fanciful and the prosaic, which shall
satisfy his taste and be intelligible to the outside world. Sometimes he gives us a fragment
of historical romance, as in the story of the stern old regicide who suddenly appears from
the woods to head the colonists of Massachusetts in a critical emergency; then he tries his
hand at a bit of allegory, and describes the search for the mythical carbuncle which blazes
by its inherent splendour on the face of a mysterious cliff in the depths of the untrodden
wilderness, and lures old and young, the worldly and the romantic, to waste their lives in
the vain effort to discover it--for the carbuncle is the ideal which mocks our pursuit, and
may be our curse or our blessing. Then perhaps we have a domestic piece--a quiet description
of a New England country scene touched with a grace which reminds us of the creators of Sir
Roger de Coverley or the Vicar of Wakefield. Occasionally there is a fragment of pure diablerie,
as in the story of the lady who consults the witch in the hollow of the three hills; and more
frequently he tries to work out one of those strange psychological problems which he afterwards
treated with more fulness of power. The minister who, for an unexplained reason, puts on a
black veil one morning in his youth, and wears it until he is laid with it in his grave--a
kind of symbolical prophecy of Dimmesdale; the eccentric Wakefield (whose original, if I remember
rightly, is to be found in 'King's Anecdotes'), who leaves his house one morning for no particular
reason, and though living in the next street, does not reveal his existence to his wife for
twenty years; and the hero of the 'Wedding Knell,' the elderly bridegroom whose early love
has jilted him, but agrees to marry him when she is an elderly widow and he an old bachelor,
and who appals the marriage party by coming to the church in his shroud, with the bell tolling
as for a funeral--all these bear the unmistakable stamp of Hawthorne's mint, and each is a
study of his favourite subject, the border-land between reason and insanity. In many of these
stories appears the element of interest, to which Hawthorne clung the more closely both from
early associations and because it is the one undeniably poetical element in the American character.
Shallow-minded people fancy Puritanism to be prosaic, because the laces and ruffles of the
Cavaliers are a more picturesque costume at a masked ball than the dress of the Roundheads.
The Puritan has become a grim and ugly scarecrow, on whom every buffoon may break his jest.
But the genuine old Puritan spirit ceases to be picturesque only because of its sublimity:
its poetry is sublimed into religion. The great poet of the Puritans fails, as far as he fails,
when he tries to transcend the limits of mortal imagination--

    The living throne, the sapphire blaze,
    Where angels tremble as they gaze,
    He saw: but blasted with excess of light,
    Closed his eyes in endless night.

To represent the Puritan from within was not, indeed, a task suitable to Hawthorne's powers.
Carlyle has done that for us with more congenial sentiment than could have been well felt by
the gentle romancer. Hawthorne fancies the grey shadow of a stern old forefather wondering
at his degenerate son. 'A writer of story-books! In Hawthorne it would seem that the peddling
element of the old Puritans had been reduced to its lowest point; the more spiritual element
had been refined till it is probable enough that the ancestral shadow would have refused to
recognise the connection. The old dogmatical framework to which he attached such vast importance
had dropped out of his descendant's mind, and had been replaced by dreamy speculation, obeying
no laws save those imposed by its own sense of artistic propriety. But we may often recognise,
even where we cannot express in words, the strange family likeness which exists in characteristics
which are superficially antagonistic. The man of action may be bound by subtle ties to the
speculative metaphysician; and Hawthorne's mind, amidst the most obvious differences, had still
an affinity to his remote forefathers. Their bugbears had become his playthings; but the witches,
though they have no reality, have still a fascination for him. The interest which he feels
in them, even in their now shadowy state, is a proof that he would have believed in them in
good earnest a century and a half earlier. The imagination, working in a different intellectual
atmosphere, is unable to project its images upon the external world; but it still forms them
in the old shape. His solitary musings necessarily employ a modern dialect, but they often
turn on the same topics which occurred to Jonathan Edwards in the woods of Connecticut. Instead
of the old Puritan speculations about predestination and free-will, he dwells upon the transmission
by natural laws of an hereditary curse, and upon the strange blending of good and evil, which
may cause sin to be an awakening impulse in a human soul. The change which takes place in Donatello
in consequence of his crime is a modern symbol of the fall of man and the eating the fruit
of the knowledge of good and evil. As an artist he gives concrete images instead of abstract
theories; but his thoughts evidently delight to dwell in the same regions where the daring
speculations of his theological ancestors took their origin. Septimius, the rather disagreeable
hero of his last romance, is a peculiar example of a similar change. Brought up under the strict
discipline of New England, he has retained the love of musing upon insoluble mysteries, though
he has abandoned the old dogmatic guide-posts. When such a man finds that the orthodox scheme
of the universe provided by his official pastors has somehow broken down with him, he forms
some audacious theory of his own, and is perhaps plunged into an unhallowed revolt against
the Divine order. Septimius, under such circumstances, develops into a kind of morbid and sullen
Hawthorne. He considers--as other people have done--that death is a disagreeable fact, but
refuses to admit that it is inevitable. The romance tends to show that such a state of mind
is unhealthy and dangerous, and Septimius is contrasted unfavourably with the vigorous natures
who preserve their moral balance by plunging into the stream of practical life. Yet Hawthorne
necessarily sympathises with the abnormal being whom he creates. Septimius illustrates the
dangers of the musing temperament, but the dangers are produced by a combination of an essentially
selfish nature with the meditative tendency. Hawthorne, like his hero, sought refuge from the
hard facts of commonplace life by retiring into a visionary world. He delights in propounding
much the same questions as those which tormented poor Septimius, though, for obvious reasons,
he did not try to compound an elixir of life by means of a recipe handed down from Indian ancestors.
The strange mysteries in which the world and our nature are shrouded are always present to
his imagination; he catches dim glimpses of the laws which bring out strange harmonies, but,
on the whole, tend rather to deepen than to clear the mysteries. He loves the marvellous, not
in the vulgar sense of the word, but as a symbol of perplexity which encounters every thoughtful
man in his journey through life. Similar tenants at an earlier period might, with almost equal
probability, have led him to the stake as a dabbler in forbidden sciences, or have caused him
to be revered as one to whom a deep spiritual instinct had been granted.

Meanwhile, as it was his calling to tell stories to readers of the English language in the
nineteenth century, his power is exercised in a different sphere. No modern writer has the
same skill in so using the marvellous as to interest without unduly exciting our incredulity.
He makes, indeed, no positive demands on our credulity. The strange influences which are suggested
rather than obtruded upon us are kept in the background, so as not to invite, nor indeed to
render possible, the application of scientific tests. We may compare him once more to Miss
Brontë, who introduces, in 'Villette,' a haunted garden. She shows us a ghost who is for a
moment a very terrible spectre indeed, and then, very much to our annoyance, rationalises him
into a flesh-and-blood lover. Hawthorne would neither have allowed the ghost to intrude so
forcibly, nor have expelled him so decisively. The garden in his hands would have been haunted
by a shadowy terror of which we could render no precise account to ourselves. It would have
refrained from actual contact with professors and governesses; and as it would never have taken
bodily form, it would never have been quite dispelled. His ghosts are confined to their proper
sphere, the twilight of the mind, and never venture into the broad glare of daylight. We can
see them so long as we do not gaze directly at them; when we turn to examine them they are
gone, and we are left in doubt whether they were realities or an ocular delusion generated
in our fancy by some accidental collocation of half-seen objects. So in the 'House of the Seven
Gables' we may hold what opinion we please as to the reality of the curse which hangs over
the Pyncheons and the strange connection between them and their hereditary antagonists; in
the 'Scarlet Letter' we may, if we like, hold that there was really more truth in the witch
legends which colour the imaginations of the actors than we are apt to dream of in our philosophy;
and in 'Transformation' we are left finally in doubt as to the great question of Donatello's
ears, and the mysterious influence which he retains over the animal world so long as he is
unstained by bloodshed. In 'Septimius' alone, it seems to me that the supernatural is left
in rather too obtrusive a shape in spite of the final explanations; though it might possibly
have been toned down had the story received the last touches of the author. The artifice, if
so it may be called, by which this is effected--and the romance is just sufficiently dipped
in the shadow of the marvellous to be heightened without becoming offensive--sounds, like other
things, tolerably easy when it is explained; and yet the difficulty is enormous, as may appear
on reflection as well as from the extreme rarity of any satisfactory work in the same style
by other artists. With the exception of a touch or two in Scott's stories, such as the impressive
Bodach Glas, in 'Waverley,' and the apparition in the exquisite 'Bride of Lammermoor,' it would
be difficult to discover any parallel.

In fact Hawthorne was able to tread in that magic circle only by an exquisite refinement of
taste, and by a delicate sense of humour, which is the best preservative against all extravagance.
Both qualities combine in that tender delineation of character which is, after all, one of
his greatest charms. His Puritan blood shows itself in sympathy, not with the stern side of
the ancestral creed, but with the feebler characters upon whom it weighed as an oppressive
terror. He resembles, in some degree, poor Clifford Pyncheon, whose love of the beautiful makes
him suffer under the stronger will of his relatives and the prim stiffness of their home. He
exhibits the suffering of such a character all the more effectively because, with his kindly
compassion there is mixed a delicate flavour of irony. The more tragic scenes affect us, perhaps,
with less sense of power; the playful, though melancholy, fancy seems to be less at home when
the more powerful emotions are to be excited; and yet once, at least, he draws one of those
pictures which engrave themselves instantaneously on the memory. The grimmest or most passionate
of writers could hardly have improved the scene where the body of the magnificent Zenobia is
discovered in the river. Every touch goes straight to the mark. The narrator of the story,
accompanied by the man whose coolness has caused the suicide, and the shrewd, unimaginative
Yankee farmer, who interprets into coarse, downright language the suspicions which they fear
to confess to themselves, are sounding the depths of the river by night in a leaky punt with
a long pole. Silas Foster represents the brutal, commonplace comments of the outside world,
which jar so terribly on the more sensitive and closely interested actors in the tragedy. 'Heigho!'
he soliloquises, with offensive loudness, 'life and death together make sad work for us all.
Then I was a boy, bobbing for fish; and now I'm getting to be an old fellow, and here I be,
groping for a dead body! I tell you what, lads, if I thought anything had really happened to
Zenobia, I should feel kind o' sorrowful.' That is the discordant chorus of the gravediggers
in 'Hamlet.' At length the body is found, and poor Zenobia is brought to the shore with her
knees still bent in the attitude of prayer, and her hands clenched in immitigable defiance.
Foster tries in vain to straighten the dead limbs. As the teller of the story gazes at her,
the grimly ludicrous reflection occurs to him that if Zenobia had foreseen all 'the ugly circumstances
of death--how ill it would become her, the altogether unseemly aspect which she must put on,
and especially old Silas Foster's efforts to improve the matter--she would no more have committed
the dreadful act than have exhibited herself to a public assembly in a badly-fitting garment.'

BALZAC'S NOVELS

Balzac exacts more attention than most novel-readers are inclined to give; he is often repulsive,
and not unfrequently dull; but the student who has once submitted to his charm becomes spell-bound.
Disgusted for a moment, he returns again and again to the strange, hideous, grotesque, but
most interesting world to which Balzac alone can introduce him. Like the opium-eater, he acquires
a taste for the visions that are conjured up before him with so vivid a colouring, that he
almost believes in their objective existence. There are perhaps greater novelists than Balzac;
there are many who preach a purer morality; and many who give a far greater impression of general
intellectual force; but in this one quality of intense realisation of actors and scenery he
is unique.

Balzac, indeed, was apparently himself almost incapable of distinguishing his dreams from realities.
Great wits, we know, are allied to madness; and the boundaries seem in his case to have been
most shadowy and indistinct. Indeed, if the anecdotes reported of him be accurate--some of
them are doubtless rather overcharged--he must have lived almost in a state of permanent hallucination.
This, for example, is a characteristic story. He inhabited for some years a house called les
Jardies, in the neighbourhood of Paris. He had a difficulty in providing material furniture,
owing to certain debts, which, as some sceptics insinuated, were themselves a vast mystification.
He habitually ascribed his poverty to a certain 'deficit Kessner,' a loss which reposed on
some trifling foundation of facts, but which assumed monstrous proportions in his imagination,
and recurred perpetually as the supposed cause of his poverty. In sober reality, however, he
was poor, and found compensation in creating a vast credit, as imaginary as his liabilities.
Upon that bank he could draw without stint. He therefore inscribed in one place upon the bare
walls of his house, 'Ici un revêtement de marbre de Paros;' in another, 'Ici un plafond peint
par Eugène Delacroix;' in a third, 'Ici des portes, façon Trianon;' and, in short, revelled
in gorgeous decorations made of the same materials as the dishes of the Barmecides' feast.
A minor source of wealth was the single walnut-tree which really grew in his gardens, and which
increased his dream-revenue by 60l. a year. This extraordinary result was due, not to any merit
in the nuts, but to an ancient and imaginary custom of the village which compelled the inhabitants
to deposit round its foot a material defined by Victor Hugo as 'du guano moins les oiseaux.'
The most singular story, however, and which we presume is to be received with a certain reserve,
tells how he roused two of his intimate friends at two o'clock one morning, and urged them
to start for India without an hour's delay. The cause of this journey was that a certain German
historian had presented Balzac with a seal, valued by the thoughtless at the sum of six sous.
The ring, however, had a singular history in Balzac's dreamland. It was impressed with the
seal of the Prophet, and had been stolen by the English from the Great Mogul. Balzac had or
had not been informed by the Turkish ambassador that that potentate would repurchase it with
tons of gold and diamonds, and was benevolent enough to propose that his friend should share
in the stores which would exceed the dreams of Aladdin.

How far these and other such fancies were a merely humorous protest against the harsh realities
of life, may be a matter of speculation; but it is less doubtful that the fictitious personages
with whom Balzac surrounded himself lived and moved in his imagination as distinctly as the
flesh-and-blood realities who were treading the pavement of Paris. He did not so much invent
characters and situations as watch his imaginary world, and compile the memories of its celebrities.
All English readers are acquainted with the little circle of clergymen and wives who inhabit
the town of Barchester. Balzac has carried out the same device on a gigantic scale. He has
peopled not a country town but a metropolis. There is a whole society, with the members of
which we are intimate, whose family secrets are revealed to us, and who drop in, as it were,
in every novel of a long series, as if they were old friends. When, for example, young Victurnien
d'Esgrignon comes to Paris he makes acquaintance, we are told, with De Marsay, Maxime de Trailles,
Les Lupeaulx, Rastignac, Vandenesse, Ajuda-Pinto, the Duchesses de Grandlieu, de Carigliano,
de Chaulieu, the Marquises d'Espard, d'Aiglemont, and De Listomère, Madame Firmiani, the Comtesse
de Sérizy, and various other heads of the fashionable world. Every one of these special characters
has a special history. He or she appears as the hero or heroine of one story, and plays subsidiary
parts in a score of others. They recall to us innumerable scandalous episodes, with which anybody
who lives in the imaginary society of Balzac's Paris feels it a duty to be as familiar as a
back-stairs politician with the gossip of the House of Commons. The list just given is a mere
fragment of the great circle to which Balzac introduces us. The history of their performances
is intimately connected with the history of the time; nay, it is sometimes essential to a full
comprehension of recent events. Bishop Proudie, we fear, would scarcely venture to take an
active part in the Roman Catholic emancipation; he would be dissolved into thin air by contact
with more substantial forms; but if you would appreciate the intrigues which were going on
at Paris during the campaign of Marengo, you must study the conversations which took place
between Talleyrand, Fouché, Sieyès, Carnot, and Malin, and their relations to that prince of
policemen, the well-known Corentin. De Marsay, we are told, with audacious precision of time
and place, was President of the Council in 1833. There is no tendency on the part of these
spectres to shrink from the light. They rub shoulders with the most celebrated statesmen, and
mingle in every event of the time. One is driven to believe that Balzac really fancied the
banker Nucingen to be as tangible as a Rothschild, and was convinced that the conversations
of Louis XVIII. with Vandenesse were historic facts. His sister tells us that he discussed
the behaviour of his own creations with the utmost gravity, and was intensely interested in
discovering their fate, and getting the earliest information as to the alliances which they
were about to form. It is a curious question, upon which I cannot profess to speak positively,
whether this voluminous story ever comes into hopeless conflict with dates. I have some suspicions
that the brilliant journalist, Blondet, was married and unmarried at the same period; but,
considering his very loose mode of life, the suspicion, if true, is susceptible of explanation.
Such study as I have made has not revealed any case of inconsistency; and Balzac evidently
has the whole secret (for it seems harsh to call it fictitious) history of the time so completely
at his fingers' ends, that the effect upon the reader is to produce an unhesitating confidence.
If a blunder occurs one would rather believe in a slip of the pen, such as happens to real
historians, not in the substantial inaccuracy of the narrative. Sir A. Alison, it may be remembered,
brings Sir Peregrine Pickle to the Duke of Wellington's funeral, which must have occurred after
Sir Peregrine's death; and Balzac's imaginary narrative may not be perfectly free from anachronism.
But, if so, I have not found him out. Everybody must sympathise with the English lady who is
said to have written to Paris for the address of that most imposing physician, Horace Bianchion.

The startling realisation may be due in part to a mere literary trick. We meet with artifices
like those by which De Foe cheats us into forgetfulness of his true character. One of the best
known is the insertion of superfluous bits of information, by way of entrapping his readers
into the inference that they could only have been given because they were true. The snare is
more worthy of a writer of begging-letters than of a genuine artist. Balzac occasionally indulges
in somewhat similar devices; little indirect allusions to his old characters are thrown in
with a calculated nonchalance; we have bits of antiquarian information as to the history of
buildings; superfluous accounts of the coats-of-arms of the principal families concerned, and
anecdotes as to their ancestry; and, after he has given us a name, he sometimes takes care
to explain that the pronunciation is different from the spelling. As a rule, however, these
irrelevant minutiæ seem to be thrown in, not by way of tricking us, but because he has so genuine
an interest in his own personages. He is as anxious to set De Marsay or the Père Goriot distinctly
before us, as Carlyle to make us acquainted with Frederick or Cromwell. Our most vivid painter
of historical portraits is not more charmed to discover a characteristic incident in the life
of his heroes, or to describe the pimples on his face, or the specks of blood on his collar,
than Balzac to do the same duty for the creations of his fancy. De Foe may be compared to those
favourites of showmen who cheat you into mistaking a flat-wall painting for a bas-relief. Balzac
is one of the patient Dutch artists who exhaust inconceivable skill and patience in painting
every hair on the head and every wrinkle on the face till their work has a photographic accuracy.
The result, it must be confessed, is sometimes rather trying to the patience. Balzac's artistic
instinct, indeed, renders every separate touch more or less conducive to the general effect;
but he takes an unconscionable time in preparing his ground. Instead of launching boldly into
his story, and leaving his characters to speak for themselves, he begins, as it were, by taking
his automatons carefully to pieces, and pointing out all their wires and springs. He leaves
nothing unaccounted for. He explains the character of each actor as he comes upon the stage;
and, not content with making general remarks, he plunges with extraordinary relish into the
minutest personal details. In particular, we know just how much money everybody has got, and
how he has got it. Balzac absolutely revels in elaborate financial statements. And constantly,
just as we hope that the action is about to begin, he catches us, as it were, by the button-hole,
and begs us to wait a minute to listen to a few more preparatory remarks. In one or two of
the stories, as, for example, in the 'Maison Nucingen,' the introduction seems to fill the
whole book. After expecting some catastrophe, we gradually become aware that Balzac has thought
it necessary to give us a conscientious explanation of some very dull commercial intrigues,
in order to fill up gaps in other stories of the cycle. Some one might possibly ask, what was
the precise origin of this great failure of which we hear so much, and Balzac resolves that
he shall have as complete an answer as though he were an accountant drawing up a balance-sheet.
It is said, I know not on what authority, that his story of 'César Birotteau' has, in fact,
been quoted in French courts as illustrating the law of bankruptcy; and the details given are
so ample, and, to English readers at least, so wearisome, that it really reads more like a
legal statement of a case than a novel. As another example of this elaborate workmanship I
may quote the remarkable story of 'Les Paysans.' It is intended to illustrate the character
of the French peasant, his profound avarice and cunning, and his bitter jealousy, which forms
a whole district into a tacit conspiracy against the rich, held together by closer bonds than
those of a Fenian lodge. Balzac resolves that we shall have the whole scene and all the actors
distinctly before us. We have a description of a country-house more poetical, but far more
detailed, than one in an auctioneer's circular; then we have a photograph of the neighbouring
cabaret; then a minute description of its inhabitants, and a detailed statement of their ways
and means. The story here makes a feeble start; but Balzac recollects that we don't quite know
the origin of the quarrel on which it depends, and, therefore, elaborately describes the former
proprietor, points out precisely how she was cheated by her bailiff, and precisely to what
amount, and throws in descriptions of two or three supplementary persons. We now make another
start in the history of the quarrel; but this immediately throws us back into a minute description
of the old bailiff's family circumstances, of the characters of several of his connections,
and of the insidious villain who succeeds him. Then we have a careful financial statement of
the second proprietor's losses, and the commercial system which favours them; this leads to
some antiquarian details concerning the bailiff's house, and to detailed portraits of each
of the four guards who are set to watch over the property. Then Balzac remarks that we cannot
possibly understand the quarrel without understanding fully the complicated family relations,
owing to which the officials of the department form what in America would be called a 'ring.'
By this time we are half-way through the volume, and the promised story is still in its infancy.
Even Balzac makes an apology for his longueurs, and tries to set to work in greater earnest.
He is so much interrupted, however, by the necessity of elaborately introducing every new actor,
and all his or her relations, and the houses in which they live, and their commercial and social
position, that the essence of the story has at last to be compressed into half-a-dozen pages.
In short, the novel resolves itself into a series of sketches; and reading it is like turning
over a set of photographs, with letterpress descriptions at intervals. Or we may compare it
to one of those novels of real life, so strange to the English mind, in which a French indictment
sums up the whole previous history of the persons accused, accumulates every possible bit of
information which may or may not throw light upon the facts, and diverges from the point, as
English lawyers would imagine, into the most irrelevant considerations.

Balzac, it is plain, differs widely from our English authors, who generally slightly despise
their own art, and think that, in providing amusement for our idle hours, they are rather derogating
from their dignity. Instead of claiming our attention as a right, they try to entice us into
interest by every possible artifice: they give us exciting glimpses of horrors to come; they
are restlessly anxious to get their stories well under way. Balzac is far more confident in
his position. He never doubts that we shall be willing to study his works with the seriousness
due to a scientific treatise. And occasionally, when he is seized by a sudden and most deplorable
fit of morality, he becomes as dull as a sermon. The gravity with which he sets before us all
the benevolent schemes of the médecin de campagne, and describes the whole charitable machinery
of the district, makes his performance as dismal as a gigantic religious tract. But when, in
his happier and wickeder moods, he turns this amazing capacity of graphic description to its
true account, the power of his method makes itself manifest. Every bit of elaborate geographical
and financial information has its meaning, and tells with accumulated force on the final result.
I may instance, for example, the descriptions of Paris, which form the indispensable background
to the majority of his stories, and contribute in no inconsiderable share to their tragic effect.
Balzac had to deal with the Paris of the Restoration, full of strange tortuous streets and
picturesque corners, of swinging lanterns and defective drainage; the Paris which inevitably
suggested barricades and street massacres, and was impregnated to the core with old historical
associations. It had not yet lowered itself to the comprehension of New Yorkers, and still
offered such scenery as Gustave Doré has caught in his wonderful illustrations of the 'Contes
Drolatiques.' Its mysterious and not over-cleanly charm lives in the pages of Balzac, and harmonises
with the strange society which he has created to people its streets. Thus, in one of his most
audacious stories, where the horribly grotesque trembles on the verge of the ridiculous, he
strikes the key-note by an elegant apostrophe to Paris. There are, he tells us, a few connoisseurs
who enjoy the Parisian flavour like the bouquet of some delicate wine. To all Paris is a marvel;
to them it is a living creature; every man, every fragment of a house, is 'part of the cellular
tissue of this great courtesan, whose head, heart, and fantastic manners are thoroughly known
to them.' They are lovers of Paris; to them it is a costly luxury to travel in Paris. They
are incessantly arrested before the dramas, the disasters, the picturesque accidents, which
assail one in the midst of this moving queen of cities. They start in the morning to go to
its extremities, and find themselves still unable to leave its centre at dinner-time. It is
a marvellous spectacle at all times; but, he exclaims, 'O Paris! qui n'a pas admiré tes sombres
paysages, tes échappées de lumière, tes culs-de-sac profonds et silencieux; qui n'a pas entendu
tes murmures entre minuit et deux heures du matin, ne connait encore rien de ta vraie poésie,
ni de tes bizarres et larges contrastes.'

In the scenes which follow, we are introduced to a lover watching the beautiful and virtuous
object of his adoration as she descends an infamous street late in the evening, and enters
one of the houses through a damp, moist, and fetid passage, feebly lighted by a trembling lamp,
beneath which are seen the hideous face and skinny fingers of an old woman, as fitly placed
as the witches in the blasted heath in 'Macbeth.' In this case, however, Balzac is in one of
his wildest moods, and the hideous mysteries of a huge capital become the pretext for a piece
of rather ludicrous melodrama. Paris is full enough of tragedies without the preposterous beggar
Ferragus, who appears at balls as a distinguished diplomat, and manages to place on a young
gentleman's head of hair a slow poison (invented for the purpose), which brings him to an early
grave. More impressive, because less extravagant, is that Maison Vauquer, every hole and corner
of which is familiar to the real student of Balzac. It is situated, as everybody should know,
in the Rue Neuve St.-Geneviève, just where it descends so steeply towards the Rue de l'Arbalète
that horses have some trouble in climbing it. We know its squalid exterior, its creaking bell,
the wall painted to represent an arcade in green marble, the crumbling statue of Cupid, with
the half-effaced inscription--

    'Qui que tu sois, voici ton maître,--
     Il l'est, le fut, ou le doit être.'

We have visited the wretched garden with its scanty pot-herbs and scarecrow beds, and the green
benches in the miserable arbour, where the lodgers who are rich enough to enjoy such a luxury
indulge in a cup of coffee after dinner. The salon, with its greasy and worn-out furniture,
every bit of which is catalogued, is as familiar as our own studies. We know the exact geography
even of the larder and the cistern. We catch the odour of the damp, close office, where Madame
Vauquer lurks like a human spider. She is the animating genius of the place, and we know the
exact outline of her figure, and every article of her dress. The minuteness of her portrait
brings out the horrors of the terrible process by which poor Goriot gradually sinks from one
step to another of the social ladder, and simultaneously ascends from the first floor to the
garrets. We can track his steps and trace his agony. Each station of that melancholy pilgrimage
is painted, down to the minutest details, with unflinching fidelity.

Paris, says Balzac, is an ocean; however painfully you explore it and sound its depths, there
are still virgin corners, unknown caves with their flowers, pearls, and monsters, forgotten
by literary divers. The Maison Vauquer is one of these singular monstrosities. No one, at any
rate, can complain that Balzac has not done his best to describe and analyse the character
of the unknown social species which it contains. It absorbs our interest by the contrast of
its vulgar and intensely commonplace exterior with the terrible passions and sufferings of
which it is the appropriate scene.

The horrors of a great metropolis, indeed, give ample room for tragedy. Old Sandy Mackaye takes
Alton Locke to the entrance of a London alley, and tells the sentimental tailor to write poetry
about that. 'Say how ye saw the mouth o' hell, and the twa pillars thereof at the entry, the
pawnbroker's shop on the one side and the gin-palace at the other--two monstrous deevils, eating
up men, women, and bairns, body and soul. Look at the jaws o' the monsters, how they open and
open to swallow in anither victim and anither. Write about that!' The poor tailor complains
that it is unpoetical, and Mackaye replies, 'Hah! is there no the heaven above them here and
the hell beneath them? and God frowning and the deevil grinning? No poetry there! Is no the
verra idee of the classic tragedy defined to be--man conquered by circumstances? Canna ye see
it here?' But the quotation must stop, for Mackaye goes on to a moral not quite according to
Balzac. Balzac, indeed, was anything but a Christian socialist, or a Radical reformer; we don't
often catch sight in his pages of God frowning or the devil grinning; his world seems to be
pretty well forgotten by the one, and its inhabitants to be quite able to dispense with the
services of the other. Paris, he tells us in his most outrageous story, is a hell, which one
day may have its Dante. The prolétaire lives in its lowest circle, and seldom comes into Balzac's
pages except as representing the half-seen horrors of the gulf reserved for that corrupt and
brilliant society whose vices he loves to describe. A summary of his creed is given by a queer
contrast to Mackaye, the accomplished and able De Marsay. People speak, he says, of the immorality
of certain books; here is a horrible, foul, and corrupt book, always open and never to be shut;
the great book of the world; and beyond that is another book a thousand times more dangerous,
which consists of all that is whispered by one man to another, or discussed under ladies' fans
at balls. Balzac's pages are flavoured, rather to excess, with this diabolical spice, composed
of dark allusions to, or audacious revelations of these hideous mysteries. If he is wanting
in the moral elevation necessary for a Dante, he has some of the sinister power which makes
him a fit guide to the horrors of our modern Inferno.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before accepting Balzac's guidance into these mysterious regions, I must touch upon another
peculiarity. Balzac's genius for skilfully-combined photographic detail explains his strange
power of mystification. A word is wanting to express that faint acquiescence or mimic belief
which we generally grant to a novelist. Dr. Newman has constructed a scale of assent according
to its varying degrees of intensity; and we might, perhaps, assume that to each degree there
corresponds a mock assent accorded to different kinds of fiction. If Scott, for example, requires
from his readers a shadow of that kind of belief which we grant to an ordinary historian, Balzac
requires a shadow of the belief which Dr. Pusey gives to the Bible. This still remains distinctly
below any genuine assent; for Balzac never wishes us really to forget, though he occasionally
forgets himself, that his most lifelike characters are imaginary. But in certain subordinate
topics he seems to make a higher demand on our faith. He is full of more or less fanciful heresies,
and labours hard to convince us either that they are true or that he seriously holds them.
This is what I mean by mystification, and one fears to draw a line as to which he was probably
far from clear himself. Thus, for example, he is a devout believer in physiognomy, and not
only in its obvious sense; he erects it into an occult science. Lavater and Gall, he says,
'prove incontestably' that ominous signs exist in our heads. Take, for example, the chasseur
Michu, his white face injected with blood and compressed like a Calmuck's; his ruddy, crisp
hair; his beard cut in the shape of a fan; the noble forehead which surmounts and overhangs
his sunburnt, sarcastic features; his ears well detached, and possessing a sort of mobility,
like those of a wild animal; his mouth half open, and revealing a set of fine but uneven teeth;
his thick and glossy whiskers; his hair, close in front, long on the sides and behind, with
its wild, ruddy hue throwing into relief the strange and fatal character of the physiognomy;
his short, thick neck, designed to tempt the hatchet of the guillotine: these details, so accurately
photographed, not only prove that M. Michu was a resolute, faithful servant, capable of the
profoundest secresy and the most disinterested attachment, but for the really skilful reader
of mystic symbols foretell his ultimate fate--namely, that he will be the victim of a false
accusation. Balzac, however, ventures into still more whimsical extremes. He accepts, in all
apparent seriousness, the theory of his favourite, Mr. Shandy, that a man's name influences
his character. Thus, for example, a man called Minoret-Levrault must necessarily be 'un éléphant
sans trompe et sans intelligence,' and the occult meaning of Z. Marcas requires a long and
elaborate commentary. Repeat the word Marcas, dwelling on the first syllable, and dropping
abruptly on the second, and you will see that the man who bears it must be a martyr. The zigzag
of the initial implies a life of torment. What ill wind, he asks, has blown upon this letter,
which in no language (Balzac's acquaintance with German was probably limited) commands more
than fifty words? The name is composed of seven letters, and seven is most characteristic of
cabalistic numbers. If M. Gozlan's narrative be authentic, Balzac was right to value this name
highly, for he had spent many hours in seeking for it by a systematic perambulation of the
streets of Paris. He was rather vexed at the discovery that the Marcas of real life was a tailor.
'He deserved a better fate!' said Balzac pathetically; 'but it shall be my business to immortalise
him.'

Balzac returns to this subject so often and so emphatically that one half believes him to be
the victim of his own mystification. Perhaps he was the one genuine disciple of Mr. Shandy
and Slawkenbergius, and believed sincerely in the occult influence of names and noses. In more
serious matters it is impossible to distinguish the point at which his feigned belief passes
into real superstition; he stimulates conviction so elaborately, that his sober opinions shade
off imperceptibly into his fanciful dreamings. For a time he was attracted by mesmerism, and
in the story of Ursule Mirouet he labours elaborately to infect his readers with a belief in
what he calls 'magnetism, the favourite science of Jesus, and one of the powers transmitted
to the apostles.' He assumes his gravest airs in adducing the cases of Cardan, Swedenborg,
and a certain Duke of Montmorency, as though he were a genuine historical inquirer. He almost
adopts the tone of a pious missionary in describing how his atheist doctor was led by the revelations
of a clairvoyante to study Pascal's 'Pensées' and Bossuet's sublime 'Histoire des Variations,'
though what those works have to do with mesmerism is rather difficult to see. He relates the
mysterious visions caused by the converted doctor after his death, not less minutely, though
more artistically, than De Foe described the terrible apparition of Mrs. Veal, and, it must
be confessed, his story illustrates with almost equal force the doctrine, too often forgotten
by spiritualists, that ghosts should not make themselves too common. When once they begin to
mix in general society, they become intolerably prosaic.

The ostentatious belief which is paraded in this instance is turned to more artistic account
in the wonderful story of the 'Peau de Chagrin.' Balzac there tries as conscientiously as ever
to surmount the natural revolt of our minds against the introduction of the supernatural into
life. The peau de chagrin is the modern substitute for the old-fashioned parchment on which
contracts were signed with the devil. M. Valentin, its possessor, is a Faust of the boulevards;
but our prejudices are softened by the circumstance that the peau de chagrin has a false air
of scientific authenticity. It is discovered by a gentleman who spends a spare half-hour before
committing suicide in an old curiosity shop, which occupies a sort of middle standing-ground
between a wizard's laboratory and the ordinary Wardour Street shop. There is no question of
signing with one's blood, but simply of accepting a curious substance with the property--rather
a startling one, it is true--that its area diminishes in proportion to the amount of wishes
gratified, and vanishes with the death of the possessor. The steady flesh-and-blood men of
science treat it just as we feel certain that they would do. After smashing a hydraulic press
in the attempt to compress it, and exhausting the power of chemical agents, they agree to make
a joke of it. It is not so much more wonderful than some of those modern miracles, which leave
us to hesitate between the two incredible alternatives that men of science are fallible, or
that mankind in general, like Sir Walter Scott's grandmother, are 'awfu' leears.' Every effort
is made to reduce the strain upon our credulity to that moderate degree of intensity which
may fairly be required from the reader of a wild fiction. When the first characteristic wish
of the proprietor--namely, that he may be indulged in a frantic orgie--has been gratified without
any apparent intervention of the supernatural, we are left just in that proper equilibrium
between scepticism and credulity which is the right mental attitude in presence of a marvellous
story. Balzac, it is true, seems rather to flag in continuing his narrative. The symbolical
meaning begins to part company with the facts. Stories of this kind require the congenial atmosphere
of an ideal world, and the effort of interpreting such a poetical legend into terms of ordinary
life is perhaps too great for the powers of any literary artist. At any rate M. Valentin drops
after a time from the level of Faust to become the hero of a rather commonplace Parisian story.
The opening scenes, however, are an admirable specimen of the skill by which our irrepressible
scepticism may be hindered from intruding into a sphere where it is out of place; or rather--for
one can hardly speak of belief in such a connection--of the skill by which the discord between
the surroundings of the nineteenth century and a story of grotesque supernaturalism can be
converted into a pleasant harmony. A similar effect is produced in one of Balzac's finest stories,
the 'Recherche de l'Absolu.' Every accessory is provided to induce us, so long as we are under
the spell, to regard the discovery of the philosopher's stone as a reasonable application of
human energy. We are never quite clear whether Balthazar Claes is a madman or a commanding
genius. We are kept trembling on the verge of a revelation till we become interested in spite
of our more sober sense. A single diamond turns up in a crucible which was unluckily produced
in the absence of the philosopher, so that he cannot tell what are the necessary conditions
of repeating the process. He is supposed to discover the secret just as he is struck by a paralysis,
which renders him incapable of revealing it, and dies whilst making desperate efforts to communicate
the crowning success to his family. Balzac throws himself into the situation with such energy
that we are irresistibly carried away by his enthusiasm. The impossibility ceases to annoy
us, and merely serves to give additional dignity to the story.

       *       *       *       *       *

