And who met in council at Chicago? Was it the friends of the Union? No, it was Democrats, as
they called themselves, whether unionists or disunionists. Avowed disunionists constituted
a large and influential portion of the Convention (profaning the name of Democrats) that met
together at Chicago. Who were Vallandigham and Harris and Long and many other of their compeers,
who not only met together at Chicago, but some of whom were received with shouts of applause,
and resolutions moved by some of them unanimously adopted. It was a meeting of loyal men and
disloyal, peace and war men, unionists and disunionists. Every disunionist is a traitor. He
is for the overthrow of the Republic, upon the demand of rebels in arms against the Government.
Every peace man now on the Chicago McClellan platform is a disunionist and a traitor, because
he knows, in his inmost soul, that no peace can be obtained but upon the ultimatum of Jefferson
Davis, now officially proclaimed by him through the secretary of state to foreign Governments,
namely, the severance of the Union, and the establishment throughout the South of a separate
slave-holding empire. Most of these peace men openly avow their disunion doctrines, while others
attempt to conceal their treason, under the transparent mask of an "armistice," a "cessation
of hostilities," and an ultimate "convention of the States," ignominiously declaring, at the
same time, by their platform resolutions at Chicago, that to suppress the rebellion by war
has proved a failure. What truly loyal man, by voting for their candidates, will indorse at
the polls such a platform as this? It is a surrender of our country's honor--it is a capitulation,
upon the demand of Southern traitors, whose hands are dripping with the warm life blood of
our sons and brothers, and who now boldly and defiantly pledge themselves to foreign Governments,
as they always had declared to us, that they will have no peace unless based upon disunion.
Did a Democratic Convention ever before receive avowed Disunionists and traitors among its
number? Did it ever before trail in the dust the glorious flag of our country? Did it ever
agree before, that our banner should be torn down from half the States and territory of the
Union, and replaced by a foreign standard, having upon it but one emblazonry--the divinity
and perpetuity of Slavery? And shall we treat with the Confederate authorities on this basis?
No; while we will gladly treat with States and people desiring to return to the Union, with
Jefferson Davis and his Cabinet brandishing over our heads the two-edged sword of Slavery and
disunion, we will, in the emphatic words of General Jackson, "negotiate only from the mouths
of our cannon."

General Jackson was, in truth, the father and founder of the Democratic party. Prior to his
first nomination in 1823, in the election of Jefferson, Madison, and Monroe, the parties were
known as Federal and Republican. In the fall of 1823, I united with a few friends in calling,
at Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, the FIRST Democratic meeting, by which General Jackson was nominated
as the Democratic candidate for the Presidency of the United States. I offered the resolutions
in his favor adopted by that meeting, calling the Democratic State Convention of Pennsylvania
which confirmed that nomination in March, 1824. I attended that Convention, as a delegate from
Pittsburg, and wrote the address of the Convention to the Democracy of the State and of the
Union on that momentous occasion. I supported General Jackson for the Presidency in 1823 (my
first vote), 1824, 1828, and 1832, and uniformly adhered to the Democratic party until after
the rebellion of 1861.

During the great nullification and secession question of South Carolina, on the first Monday
of January, 1833, at Natchez, Mississippi, I made the opening speech, then published, against
nullification and secession, in favor of "war," if necessary to maintain the Union--in favor
of "coercion" to put down rebellion in any State. The Legislature of Mississippi indorsed that
speech, and passed resolutions declaring nullification and secession to be treason, and, upon
THAT ISSUE, I was elected by the Legislature to the Senate of the United States. If Mississippi,
under the influence of Jefferson Davis, and other traitor leaders, has since that period abandoned
those principles, she cannot expect me to follow her, and thereby surrender opinions which
I have uniformly maintained and advocated throughout my life, but more especially from 1833
until the present period. Mississippi (whose prosperity I would restore by bringing her back
to the Union) indorsed those opinions when she elected me to the Senate of the United States
over an avowed and distinguished secessionist (George Poindexter), after a contest of unexampled
violence, personal and political, extending from January, 1833, to January, 1836.

It was on that occasion that General Jackson wrote his celebrated letter in favor of my election
and sustaining my political course. It was after the adoption of the secession ordinance by
Carolina, that General Jackson sent our war vessels to Charleston to hold and blockade the
harbor, and our troops, under the illustrious Scott, to maintain, by force, if necessary, the
authority of the Federal Government over the forts commanding the city of Charleston. Let us
suppose that the rebels had then shot down our flag, captured our forts, made war upon the
Union, and proceeded to dissolve it by force--let us suppose that a committee from any convention
had then dared to nominate General Jackson for the Presidency upon such a platform as that
adopted at Chicago, proposing an armistice and cessation of hostilities until a National Convention
could be assembled, accompanied by the declaration that the rebellion could not be crushed
by war, who doubts what would have been the course of that devoted patriot? He would have stamped
the disgraceful and treasonable resolutions under his feet, and indignantly scouted the traitors
who offered them. And now this McClellan Convention at Chicago professes to represent the Democratic
party. As Jefferson was the founder of the old Republican party, Jackson was the father of
the Democratic party.

What right had that Convention to assume the name of Democracy, while trampling upon the advice
of the founder of the party, and all its great and vital principles? How dare they offer an
'armistice' and 'the cessation of hostilities' to rebels in arms against their country, especially
when the so-called rebel government had again and again declared that they would negotiate
upon no terms, except the acknowledgment of their independence, and the definitive dissolution
of the Union? But, above all, how dare they record the disgraceful and treasonable falsehood,
that the war to suppress the rebellion had failed, and ask the freemen of America to indorse
at the polls such a declaration?

And has, indeed, all the blood of patriots shed in defence of the Union in this war, been poured
out in vain? Ye patriot soldiers! now in the field, say, are you unable or unwilling to suppress
the rebellion? Say it not only in words, but answer the foul accusation by your votes in the
approaching Presidential election.

The Chicago McClellan Convention says that the war is a failure, and that therefore there must
be an armistice and a cessation of hostilities. Will not your answer at the polls be this:
'It is a foul and treasonable falsehood?'

