GREAT POSSESSIONS

by

MRS. WILFRID WARD

Author of "One Poor Scruple," "Out of Due Time," etc.

G. P. Putnam's Sons New York and London The Knickerbocker Press 1909 Copyright, 1909 by G.
P. Putnam's Sons The Knickerbocker Press, New York

CONTENTS

BOOK I

CHAPTER                                            PAGE

I.          THE AMAZING WILL                          1

II.         IN THE EVENING                           13

III.        "AS YOU HOPE TO BE FORGIVEN"             21

IV.         THE WICKED WOMAN IN FLORENCE             32

V.          "YOUR MOTHER'S DAUGHTER"                 42

VI.         MOLLY COMES OF AGE                       55

VII.        EDMUND GROSSE CONTINUES TO INTERFERE     68

VIII.       AT GROOMBRIDGE CASTLE                    78

IX.         A LITTLE MORE THAN KIND                  91

X.          THE PET VICE                             98

XI.         THE THIN END OF A CLUE                  109

XII.        MOLLY'S NIGHT-WATCH                     120

XIII.       SIR DAVID'S MEMORY                      126

BOOK II

XIV.        MOLLY IN THE SEASON                     136

XV.         A POOR MAN'S DEATH                      151

XVI.        MOLLY'S LETTER TO HER MOTHER            165

XVII.       THE BLIND CANON                         173

XVIII.      MADAME DANTERRE'S ANSWER                180

XIX.        LADY ROSE'S SCRUPLE                     187

XX.         THE HEIRESS OF MADAME DANTERRE          194

BOOK III

XXI.        AN INTERLUDE OF HAPPINESS               213

XXII.       SOMETHING LIKE EVIDENCE                 220

XXIII.      THE USES OF DELIRIUM                    231

XXIV.       MRS. DELAPORT GREEN IN THE ASCENDANT    238

XXV.        MOLLY AT COURT                          243

XXVI.       EDMUND IS NO LONGER BORED               249

XXVII.      MOLLY'S APPEAL                          256

XXVIII.     DINNER AT TWO SHILLINGS                 266

XXIX.       THE RELIEF OF SPEECH                    272

XXX.        THE BIRTH OF A SLANDER                  280

XXXI.       THE NURSING OF A SLANDER                285

BOOK IV

XXXII.      ROSE SUMMONED TO LONDON                 294

XXXIII.     BROWN HOLLAND COVERS                    304

XXXIV.      THE WRATH OF A FRIEND                   312

XXXV.       THE CONDEMNATION OF MARK                322

XXXVI.      MENE THEKEL PHARES                      330

XXXVII.     MARK ENTERS INTO TEMPTATION             339

XXXVIII.    NO SHADOW OF A CLOUD                    350

XXXIX.      "WITHOUT CONDITION OR COMPROMISE"       357

GREAT POSSESSIONS

BOOK I

CHAPTER I

THE AMAZING WILL

The memorial service for Sir David Bright was largely attended. Perhaps he was fortunate in
the moment of his death, for other men, whose military reputations had been as high as his,
were to go on with the struggle while the world wondered at their blunders. It was only the
second of those memorial services for prominent men which were to become so terribly usual
as the winter wore on. Great was the sympathy felt for the young widow at the loss of one so
brave, so kindly, so popular among all classes.

Lady Rose Bright was quite young and very fair. She did not put on a widow's distinctive garments
because Sir David had told her that he hated weeds. But she wore a plain, heavy cloak, and
a long veil fell into the folds made by her skirts. The raiment of a gothic angel, an angel
like those in the portico at Rheims, has these same straight, stern lines. "Black is sometimes
as suggestive of white," was the reflection of one member of the congregation, "as white may
be suggestive of mourning." Sir Edmund Grosse, who had known Rose from her childhood, felt
some new revelation in her movements; there was a fuller development of womanhood in her walk,
and there was a reserve, too, as of one consecrated and set apart. He heaved a deep sigh as
she passed near him going down the church, and their eyes met. She had no shrinking in her
bearing; her reserves were too deep for her to avoid an open meeting with other human eyes.
She looked at Sir Edmund for a moment as if giving, rather than demanding, sympathy; and indeed,
there was more trouble in his eyes than in hers.

The service had gone perilously near to Roman practices. It was among the first of those uncontrollable
instinctive expressions of faith in prayer for the departed which were a marked note of English
feeling during the Boer war. Questions as to their legality were asked in Parliament, but little
heeded, for the heart of the nation, "for her children mourning," sought comfort in the prayers
used by the rest of the Christian world.

Rose's mother went home with her and they talked, very simply and in sympathy, of the tributes
to the soldier's memory. Then, when luncheon came and the servants were present, they spoke
quietly of the work to be done for soldiers' wives and of a meeting the mother was to attend
that afternoon. Lady Charlton was the mother one would expect Rose to have--indeed, such complete
grace of courtliness and kindness points to an education. Afterwards, while they were alone,
Lady Charlton, in broken sentences, sketched the future. She supposed Rose would stay on although
the house was too big. Much good might be done in it. There could be no doubt as to how money
must be spent this winter; and there were the services they both loved in the Church of the
Fathers of St. Paul near at hand. Lady Charlton saw life in pictures and so did Rose. Neither
of them broke through any reserve; neither of them was curious. It did not occur to Rose to
wonder how her mother had lived and felt in her first days as a widow. Lady Charlton did not
wonder how Rose felt now. Rose, she thought, was wonderful; life was full of mercies; there
was so much to be thankful for; and could not those who had suffered be of great consolation
to others in sorrow?

They arranged to meet at Evensong in St. Paul's Chapel, and then Lady Charlton would come back
and stay the night. On the next day she was due at the house of her youngest married daughter.

Rose was presently left alone, and she cried quite simply. For a moment she thought of Edmund
Grosse and the sadness in his eyes. Why had he not volunteered for the war? What a contrast!

A large photograph of Sir David in his general's uniform stood on the writing-table in the
study downstairs. There were also a picture and a miniature in the drawing-room, but Rose thought
she would like to look at the photograph again. It was the last that had been taken. Then too
she would look over some of his things. She wanted little presents for his special friends;
nothing for its own value, but because the hero had used them. And she would like to bring
the big photograph upstairs.

The study, usually cold and deserted since the master had gone away, was bright with a large
fire. Rose did not know that it was an expression of sympathy from the under-housemaid, whose
lover was at the war. But when she stood opposite the big photograph of the fine manly face
and figure, and the large open eyes looked so straight into hers, she shrank a little. Something
in the room made her shrink into herself. Her eyes rested on the Victoria Cross in the photograph,
on the medals that had covered his breast. "I shall have them all," she said, and then she
faltered a little. She had faltered in that room before now; she had often shrunk into herself
when the intensely courteous voice had asked her as she came into his study what she wanted.
She blamed herself gently now, and for two opposite reasons: she blamed herself because she
had wanted what she had not got, and she blamed herself because she had not done more to get
it. "He was always so gentle, so courteous. I ought to have been quite, quite happy. And why
didn't I break through our reserve, and then we might----" Dimly she felt, but she did not
want to own it to herself, that she had married him as a hero-worshipper. She had reverenced
him more than she loved him. "I ought not to have done it," she thought, "but I meant what
was right, and I could have loved him---- Oh, I did love him afterwards--only I never could
tell him, and----" Further thoughts led the way to irreverence, even to something worse. They
were wrong thoughts, thoughts against faith and truth and right; there was no place for such
thoughts in Rose's heart. She moved now, and opened drawers and dusted and put together a few
things--paper-knives, match-boxes, a writing-case, a silver sealing-wax holder, and so on;
the occupation interested and soothed her. She had the born mystic's love of little kind actions,
little presents, things treasured as symbols of the union of spirits, all the more because
of their slight material value. Then, too, the child element, which is in every good woman,
gave a zest to the occupation and made it restful.

Lady Rose had put several small relics in a row on the edge of the lower part of the big mahogany
bookcase, and was counting on her fingers the names of the friends for whom they were intended.
Her grief was sufficiently real to make her, perhaps, overestimate the number of those to whom
such relics would be precious. A tender smile was on her lips at the recollection of an old
soldier servant of Sir David's who had been with him in Egypt. She hesitated a moment between
two objects--one, a good silver-mounted leather purse, and the other an inkstand of brass and
marble. These two things were the recipients of her unjust aversion for long after that moment.

Simmonds, the butler, opened the door, quite certain that the visitor he announced must be
admitted, and conscious of the fitness of the big study for his reception. It was Sir David's
solicitor. But the butler was disappointed at the manner of his entrance. He did not analyse
the disappointment. He was half conscious of the fact that the rôle of the family lawyer on
the occasion was so simple and easy. He would himself have assumed a degree of pomp, of sympathy,
of respect, carrying a subdued implication that he brought solid consolation in his very presence.
Simmonds grieved truly for Sir David, but he felt, too, the blank caused by the absence of
all funeral arrangements in a death at the war. He had been butler in more than one house of
mourning before, and he knew all his duties in that capacity. After this he would know how
to be butler in the event of death in battle. But now, when the memorial service had taken,
in a poor sort of way, the place of the funeral, of course the solicitor ought to come, and
past deficiencies could be overlooked. Why, then, should the man prove totally unequal to his
task? Mr. Murray, Junior, had usually a much better manner than to-day. Perhaps he was startled
at being shown at once into the widow's presence. Probably he might have expected to wait a
few moments in the big study, while Simmonds went to seek his mistress.

But there was Lady Rose turning round from the bookcase as they came in. Mr. Murray stooped
to-day, and his large head was bent downwards, making it the more evident that the drops of
perspiration stood out upon his brow. He cast a look almost of fear at the fair face with its
gentle, benignant expression. He had seen Rose once or twice before, and he knew the old-fashioned
type of great lady when he met it. Was it of Rose's gentle, subtle dignity that he was afraid?

Rose drew up a chair on one side of the big square writing-table, and signed to him to take
the leather arm-chair where he had last seen Sir David Bright seated. Mr. Murray plunged into
his subject with an abruptness proportioned to the immense time he had taken during the morning
in preparing a diplomatic opening.

"May I ask, first of all," he said, "whether you have found any will, or any document looking
like a will, besides the one I have with me?"

"No," said Lady Rose in surprise, "there are no papers of any importance here, I believe; there
is nothing in the house under lock and key. Sir David gave me a few rings and studs to put
away, but he never cared for jewellery, and there is nothing of value."

"And do you think he can have executed any other will or written a letter that might be of
use to us now?"

Rose looked still more surprised. Mr. Murray held some papers in his hand that shook as if
the wintry wind outside were trying to blow them away. Rose tried not to watch them, and it
teased her that she could not help doing so. The hand that held them was not visible above
the table. Mr. Murray struggled to keep to the most absolutely business-like and unemotional
side of his professional manner, but his obviously extreme discomfort was infectious, and Rose's
calm of manner was already disturbed.

"I cannot but think, Lady Rose, that some papers may be forwarded to you through the War Office."
He hesitated. "You had no marriage settlements?" he then asked abruptly.

"No, there were no settlements," said Rose. She spoke quickly and nervously. "We did not think
them necessary. Sir David offered to make them, but just then he was ordered abroad and there
was very little time, and my mother and I did not think it of enough importance to make us
delay the wedding. It was shortly after my father's death." She paused a moment, and then went
on, as if speech were a relief.

"You know that, when we married, Sir David had no reason to expect that he would ever be a
rich man. We hardly knew the Steele cousins, and only had a vague idea that Mr. John Steele
had been making money on the Stock Exchange. When he left his fortune to Sir David, who was
his first cousin, and, in fact, his nearest relation, my mother did ask me if my husband intended
to make his will. More than once after that she tried to persuade me to speak to him about
it, but I disliked the subject too much."

Mr. Murray looked as if he wished that Lady Rose would go on talking; he seemed to expect more
from her, but, as nothing more came, he made a great effort and plunged into the subject.

"The will I have here"--he held up the papers as he spoke--"was, in fact, made a few months
after Sir David inherited Mr. John Steele's large fortune, and there was no subsequent alteration
to it, but this time last year we were directed to make a codicil to this will, and I was away
at the time. My brother, who is my senior partner, ventured to urge Sir David to make a new
will altogether, but he declined."

There was silence in the room for some moments. Mr. Murray leant over the writing-table now,
and both hands were occupied in smoothing out the papers before him.

"It is the worst will I have ever come across," he said quite suddenly, the professional manner
gone and the vehemence of a strong mind in distress breaking through all conventionality. Rose
drew herself up and looked at him coldly. In that moment she completely regained her self-possession.

"It is absolutely inexplicable," he went on, with a great effort at self-control. "Sir David
Bright leaves this house and £800 a year to you, Lady Rose, for your lifetime, and a few gifts
to friends and small legacies to old servants." He paused. Rose, with slightly heightened colour,
spoke very quietly.

"Then the fortune was much smaller than was supposed?"

"It was larger, far larger than any one knew; but it is all left away."

Rose was disturbed and frankly sorry, but not by any means miserable. She knew life, and did
not dislike wealth, and had had dreams of much good that might be done with it.

"To whom is it left?" she asked.

"After the small legacies I mentioned are paid off, the bulk of the fortune goes"--the lawyer's
voice became more and more business-like in tone--"to Madame Danterre, a lady living in Florence."

"And unless anything is sent to me from South Africa, this will is law?"

"Yes."

Rose covered her face with her hands; she did not move for several moments. It would not have
surprised Mr. Murray to know that she was praying. Presently she raised her face and looked
at him with troubled eyes, but absolute dignity of bearing.

"And the codicil?"

"The codicil directs that if you continue to live in this house----"

Rose made a little sound of surprised protest.

"----the ground rent, all rates, and all taxes are to be paid. A sum much larger than can be
required is left for this purpose, and it can also be spent on decorating or furnishing, or
in any way be used for the house and garden. It is an elaborate affair, going into every detail."

"Should I be able to let the house?"

"For a period of four months, not longer. But should you refuse to live in this house, this
sum will go with the bulk of the fortune. We had immediate application on behalf of Madame
Danterre from a lawyer in Florence as soon as the news of the death reached us. It seems that
she has a copy of the will."

"Has she"--Rose hesitated, and then repeated, "Has Madame Danterre any children?"

"I do not know," said Mr. Murray. "Beyond paying considerable sums to this lawyer from time
to time for her benefit, we have known nothing about her. There has been also a large annual
allowance since the year when Sir David came into his cousin's fortune." There was another
silence, and then Mr. Murray spoke in a more natural way, though it was impossible to conceal
all the sympathy that was filling his heart with an almost murderous wrath.

"After all, the General had plenty of time before starting for the war to arrange his affairs;
he was not a man who would neglect business. I came here with a faint hope--or I tried to think
it was a hope--that you might have another will in the house. I'm afraid this--document represents
Sir David Bright's last wishes." There was a ring of indignant scorn in his voice.

Rose looked through the window on to the thin black London turf outside, and her eyes were
blank from the intensity of concentration. She had no thought for the lawyer; if he had been
sympathetic even to impertinence she would not have noticed it.

She was questioning her own instincts, her perceptions. No, it was almost more as if she were
emptying her mind of any conscious action that her whole power of instinctive perception might
have play. When the blow had fallen, her only surprise had been to find that she was not surprised,
not astonished. It seemed as if she had known this all the time, for the thing had been alongside
of her for years, she had lived too close to it for any surprise when it raised its head and
found a name. Her reasoning powers indeed asked with astonishment why she was not surprised.
She could not explain, the symptoms of the thing that had haunted her had been too subtle,
too elusive, too minute to be brought forward now as witnesses. But while the lawyer looked
at the open face and the large eyes, and the frank bearing of the figure in the photograph,
and felt that outer man to have been the disguise of a villain, Rose, the victim, knew better.
It was a supreme proof of the clear vision of her soul that she was not surprised, and that,
even while she seemed to be flayed morally and exposed to things evil and of shame, she did
not judge with blind indignation. He had not been wholly bad, he had not been callous in his
cruelty; what he had been there would be time to understand--time for the delicacies, almost
for the luxuries of forgiveness. What she was feeling after now was a point of view above passion
and pain from which to judge this final opinion of the lawyer's, from which to know whether
Sir David had left another will.

"There has been another will," she said very gently, "but, of course, it is more than likely
that it will never be found. I am convinced"--she looked at the black and green turf all the
time, and obviously spoke to herself, not to Mr. Murray--"that he did not intend to leave me
to open shame"--the words were gently but very distinctly pronounced--"or to leave a scandal
round his own memory. Perhaps he carried another will about with him, and if so it may be sent
to me. Somehow I don't think this will happen. I think the will you have in your hand is the
only one I shall ever see, but I do not therefore judge him of having faced death with the
intention of spoiling my life. I shall live in this house and I shall honour his memory; he
died for his country, and I am his widow."

That was all she could say on the subject then, and she could only just ask Mr. Murray if he
could see her again any time the next morning. After answering that question the lawyer went
silently away.

Rose stood by the table where he had sat a moment before, looking long and steadfastly at the
photograph. She looked at the open face, she looked at the military bearing, she looked at
the Victoria Cross,--it had been the amazing courage shown in that story that had really won
her,--she looked, too, at the many medals. She had been with him once in a moment of peril
in a fire and had seen the unconscious pride with which he always answered to the call of danger.
She had, too, seen him bear acute pain as if that had been his talent, the thing he knew how to do.

"Ah, poor David!" she said softly. "What did she do to frighten you? Poor, poor David, you
were always a coward!"

CHAPTER II

IN THE EVENING

But this was a trial to search out every part of Rose's nature. She had too much faith for
sickness, death, or even terrible physical pain, to be to her in any sense a poisoned wound.
There are women like Rose whose inner life can only be in peril from the pain and shame of
the sin of others. To them it is an intolerable agony to be troubled in their faith in man.

Lady Charlton, swept out of the calm belonging to years of gentle actions and ideal thoughts
into a storm of indignation and horror, might have lost all dignity and discretion if she had
not been checked by reverence for the dumb anguish and misery of her favourite daughter. She
had some notion of the thoughts that must pass in Rose's mind, now dull and heavy, now alert
and inflicting sudden deep incisions into the quivering soul. Marriage had been to them both
very sacred. They hated, beyond most good women, anything that seemed to materialise or lower
the ideal. If there can be imagined a scale of standards for the relations of men and women,
of which Zola had not touched the extremity at one end, the first place at the other extremity
might be assigned to such Englishwomen as Rose and her mother. The most subtle and amazingly
high motives had been assigned to Lord Charlton's most ordinary actions, and happily he had
been so ordinary a person that no impossible shock had been given to the ideal built up about
him. And it had not been difficult or insincere to carry on something of the same illusion
with regard to the man who had won the Victoria Cross and had been very popular with Tommy
Atkins. David Bright's very reserves, the closed doors in his domestic life, did not prevent,
and indeed in some ways helped, the process. The mother had known in the depth of her heart
that Rose was lonely, but then she was childless. Rose had never, even in moments when the
nameless mystery that was in her home oppressed her most in its dull, voiceless way, tried
to tell her mother what she did not herself understand. Sir David had been courteous, gentle,
attentive, but never happy. Rose knew now that he had always been guiltily afraid.

Lady Charlton had had a few moments' warning of disaster, for she was horrified at the change
in Rose's face when she met her at the door of the church after Evensong. She herself had been
utterly soothed and rested by the beauty of the service. There was so much that fitted in with
all her ideals in mourning the great soldier. Little phrases about him and about Rose flitted
through her mind. Widows were widows indeed to Lady Charlton. Rose would live now chiefly for
Heaven and to soothe the sorrows of earth. She did not say to herself that Rose would not be
broken-hearted and crushed, nor did she take long views. If years hence Rose were to marry
again her mother could make another picture in which Sir David would recede into the background.
Now he was her hero whom Rose mourned, and whose loss had consecrated her more entirely to
Heaven; then he would unconsciously become in her mother's eyes a much older man whom Rose
had married almost as a child. There would be nothing necessarily to mar the new picture if
all else were fitting.

But the peace of gentle sorrow had left Rose's face, and it wore a look her mother had never
seen on it before. The breath of evil was close upon her; it had penetrated very near, so near
that she seemed evil to herself as it embraced her. She was too dazed, too confused to remember
that Divine purity had been enclosed in that embrace. What terrified her most was the thought
that had suddenly come that possibly the unknown woman in Florence had been the real lawful
wife, and that her own marriage had been a sin, a vile pretence and horror. For the first time
in her life the grandest words of confidence that have expressed and interpreted the clinging
faith of humanity seemed an unreality. Rose had never known the faintest temptation to doubt
Providence before this miserable evening. She resented with her whole being the idea that possibly
she had been the cause of the grossest wrong to an injured wife. And there was ground in reason
for such a fear, for it seemed difficult to believe that any claim short of that of a wife
could have frightened Sir David into such a course. The other and more common view, that it
was because he had loved his mistress throughout, did not appeal to her. Vice had for her few
recognisable features; she had no map for the country of passion, no precedents to refer to.
It seemed to Rose most probable that Sir David had believed his first wife to be dead when
he married her; that, on finding he was mistaken, his courage had failed, and that he had carried
on a gigantic scheme of bribery to prevent her coming forward. This view was in one sense a
degree less painful, as it would make him innocent of the first great deception, the huge lie
of making love to her as if he were a free man. The depths and extent of her misery could be
measured by the strange sense of a bitter gladness invading the very recesses of her maternal
instinct, and replacing what had been the heartfelt sorrow of six years. "It is a mercy I have
no child!" she cried, and the cry seemed to herself almost blasphemous.

When she came out of the church it was raining, and the wind blowing. It was only a short walk
to her own house, and she and her mother had made a rule not to take out servants and the carriage
for their devotions. She would have walked on in total silence, but her mother could not bear
the suspense.

"Rose, what is it?" she cried, in a tone of authority and intense anxiety. After all it might
be easier to answer now as they battled with the rain.

