241
Authors of the Rolliad. 242
Notes and Queries. 242
The Body of James II., by Pitman Jones. 243
Folk Lore:--Legend of Sir Richard Baker--Prophetic
  Spring at Langley, Kent. 244
Minor Notes:--Poem by Malherbe--Travels of Two
  English Pilgrims. 245

QUERIES:--
Quotations in Bishop Andrewes, by Rev. James Bliss. 245
Minor Queries:--Spider and Fly--Lexicon of Types--Montaigue's
  Select Essays--Custom of wearing the Breast uncovered--Milton's
  Lycidas--Sitting during the Lessons--Blew-Beer--Carpatio--Value of
  Money--Bishop Berkeley, and Adventures of Gaudeatio
  di Lucca--Cupid and Psyche--Zund-nadel Guns--Bacon
  Family--Armorials--Artephius--Sir Robert Howard--Crozier
  and Pastoral Staff--Marks of Cadency--Miniature Gibbet. 245

REPLIES:--
Collar of S.S. by Rev. H.T. Ellacombe and J. Gough
  Nichols. 248
Sir Gregory Norton. 250
Shakspeare's Word "Delighted," by Rev. Dr. Kennedy. 250
Aerostation, by Henry Wilkinson. 251
Replies to Minor Queries:--Long Lonkin--Rowley
  Powley--Guy's Armour--Alarm--Prelates of
  France--Haberdasher--"Rapido contrarius orbi"--Robertson
  of Muirtown--"Noli me tangere"--Clergy sold
  for Slaves--North Side of Churchyards--Sir John
  Perrot--Coins of Constantius II.--She ne'er with
  treacherous Kiss--California--Bishops and their
  Precedence--Elizabeth and Isabel--Bever's Legal
  Polity--Rikon Basilike, &c. 251

MISCELLANEOUS:-- Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c. 255 Notices to Correspondents. 255
Advertisements. 256

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.

THE MEANING OF "DRINK UP EISELL" IN HAMLET.

Few passages have been more discussed than this wild challenge of Hamlet to Laertes at the
grave of Ophelia:

  "Ham.

  I'll do't".

The sum of what has been said may be given in the words of Archdeacon Nares:

    "There is no doubt that eisell meant vinegar, nor even that
    Shakspeare has used it in that sense; but in this passage it
    seems that it must be put for the name of a Danish river.... The
    question was much disputed between Messrs. Steevens and Malone:
    the former being for the river, the latter for the vinegar; and
    he endeavored even to get over the drink up, which stood much in
    his way. But after all, the challenge to drink vinegar, in such
    a rant, is so inconsistent, and even ridiculous, that we must
    decide for the river, whether its name be exactly found or not.
    To drink up a river, and eat a crocodile with his impenetrable
    scales, are two things equally impossible. There is no kind of
    comparison between the others."

I must confess that I was formerly led to adopt this view of the passage, but on more mature
investigation I find that it is wrong. I see no necessary connection between eating a crocodile
and drinking up eysell; and to drink up was commonly used for simply to drink. Eisell or Eysell
certainly signified vinegar, but it was certainly not used in that sense by Shakspeare, who
may in this instance be his own expositor; the word occurring again in his CXIth sonnet.

  "Whilst, like a willing patient, I will drink
  Potions of eysell, 'gainst my strong infection;
  No bitterness that I will bitter think,
  Nor double penance, to correct correction."

Here we see that it was a bitter potion which it was a penance to drink. Thus also in the Troy
Book of Lydgate:

  "Of bitter eysell, and of eager wine."

In Thomas's Italian Dictionary, 1562, we have "Assentio, Eysell" and Florio renders that word
by vinegar. What is meant, however, is Absinthites or Wormwood wine, a nauseously bitter medicament
then much in use; and this being evidently {242} the bitter potion of Eysell in the poet's
sonnet, was certainly the nauseous draught proposed to be taken by Hamlet among the other extravagant
feats as tokens of love. The following extracts will show that in the poet's age this nauseous
bitter potion was in frequent use medicinally.

    "ABSINTHIUM, [Greek: apsinthion, aspinthion], Comicis, ab
    insigni amarore quo bibeates illud aversantur."-Junius,
    Nomenclator ap. Nicot.

    "ABSINTHITES, wormwood wine.--Hutton's Dict.

    "Hujus modi autem propomatum hodie apud Christianos quoque
    maximus est et frequentissimus usus, quibus potatores maximi
    ceu proemiis quibusdam atque præludiis utuntur, ad dirum illud
    suum propinandi certamen. Ae maxime quidem commune est proponia
    absynthites, quod vim habet stomachum corroborandi et
    extenuandi, expellendique excrementa quæ in eo continentur. Hoc
    fere propomate potatores hodie maxime ab initio coenæ utuntur
    ceu pharmaco cum hesternæ, atque præteritæ, tum futuræ
    ebrietatis, atque crapulæ.... amarissimæ sunt potiones
    medicatæ, quibus tandem stomachi cruditates immoderato cibo
    potuque collectas expurgundi cause uti coguntur."--Stuckius,
    Antiquitatæ Corviralium. Tiguri, 1582, fol. 327.

Of the two latest editors, Mr. Knight decides for the river, and Mr. Collier does not decide
at all. Our northern neighbours think us almost as much deficient in philological illustration
as in enlarged philosophical criticism on the poet, in which they claim to have shown us the way.

S.W. SINGER.

Mickleham, Aug. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORS OF THE ROLLIAD.

To the list of subjects and authors in this unrivalled volume, communicated by LORD BRAYBROOKE
(Vol. ii., p. 194.), I would add that No. XXI. Probationary Odes (which is unmarked in the
Sunning-hill Park copy) was written by Dr. Laurence: so also were Nos. XIII. and XIV., of which
LORD BRAYBROOKE speaks doubtfully. My authority is the note in the correspondence of Burke
and Laurence published in 1827, page 21. The other names all agree with my own copy, marked
by the late Mr. A. Chalmers.

In order to render the account of the work complete, I would add the following list of writers
of the Political Miscellanies. Those marked with an asterisk are said "not to be from the club:"--

    "* Probationary Ode Extraordinary, by Mason.

    The Statesmen, an Eclogue. Read.

    Rondeau to the Right Honourable W. Eden. Dr. Laurence.

    Epigrams from the Club. Miscellaneous.

    The Delavaliad. Dr. Laurence.

    This is the House that George built. Richardson.

    Epigrams by Sir Cecil Wray. Tickell and Richardson.

    Lord Graham's Diary, not marked.

    * Extracts from 2nd Vol. of Lord Mulgrave's Essays.

    * Anecdotes of Mr. Pitt.

    Letter from a New Member.

    * Political Receipt Book, &c.

    * Hints from Dr. Pretyman.

    A tale 'at Brookes's once,' &c. Richardson.

    Dialogue 'Donec Gratus eram Tibi.' Lord J. Townshend.

    Pretymaniana, principally by Tickell and Richardson.

    Foreign Epigrams, the same and Dr. Laurence.

    * Advertisement Extraordinary.

    Vive le Scrutiny. Bate Dudley.

    * Paragraph Office, Ivy Lane.

    * Pitt and Pinetti.

    * New Abstract of the Budget for 1784.

    Theatrical Intelligence Extraordinary. Richardson.

    The Westminster Guide (unknown). Part II. (unknown).

    Inscription for the Duke of Richmond's Bust (unknown).

    Epigram, 'Who shall expect,' &c. Richardson.

    A New Ballad, 'Billy Eden.' Tickell and Richardson.

    Epigrams on Sir Elijah Impey, and by Mr. Wilberforce (unknown).

    A Proclamation, by Richardson.

    * Original Letter to Corbett.

    * Congratulatory Ode to Right Hon. C. Jenkinson.

    * Ode to Sir Elijah Impey.

    * Song.

    * A New Song, 'Billy's Budget.'

    * Epigrams.

    * Ministerial Undoubted Facts (unknown).

    Journal of the Right Hon. Hen. Dundas. From the Club.
    Miscellaneous.

    Incantation. Fitzpatrick.

    Translations of Lord Belgrave's Quotations. From the Club.
    Miscellaneous."

Some of these minor contributions were from the pen of O'Beirne, afterwards Bishop of Meath.

Tickell should be joined with Lord John Townshend in "Jekyll." The former contributed the lines
parodied from Pope.

In reply to LORD BRAYBROOKE'S Query, Moore, in his Life of Sheridan, speaks of Lord John Townshend
as the only survivor of "this confederacy of wits:" so that, if he is correct, the author of
"Margaret Nicholson" (Adair) cannot be now living.

J.H.M.

Bath.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES AND QUERIES.

"There is nothing new under the sun," quoth the Preacher; and such must be said of "NOTES AND
QUERIES." Your contributor M. (Vol. ii, p. 194.) has drawn attention to the Weekly Oracle,
which in 1736 gave forth its responses to the inquiring public; but, as he intimates, many
similar periodicals might be instanced. Thus, we have Memoirs for the Ingenious, 1693, 4to.,
edited by I. de la Crose; Memoirs for the Curious, 1701, 4to.; The Athenian Oracle, 1704, 8vo.;
The Delphick Oracle, {243} 1720, 8vo.; The British Apollo, 1740, 12mo.; with several others
of less note. The three last quoted answer many singular questions in theology, law, medicine,
physics, natural history, popular superstitions, &c., not always very satisfactorily or very
intelligently, but still, often amusingly and ingeniously. The British Apollo: containing two
thousand Answers to curious Questions in most Arts and Sciences, serious, comical, and humourous,
the fourth edition of which I have now before me, indulges in answering such questions as these:
"How old was Adam when Eve was created?--Is it lawful to eat black pudding?--Whether the moon
in Ireland is like the moon in England? Where is hell situated? Do cocks lay eggs?" &c. In
answer to the question, "Why is gaping catching?" the Querists of 1740 are gravely told,--

    "Gaping or yawning is infectious, because the steams of the
    blood being ejected out of the mouth, doth infect the ambient
    air, which being received by the nostrils into another man's
    mouth, doth irritate the fibres of the hypogastric muscle to
    open the mouth to discharge by expiration the unfortunate gust
    of air infected with the steams of blood, as aforesaid."

The feminine gender, we are further told, is attributed to a ship, "because a ship carries
burdens, and therefore resembles a pregnant woman."

But as the faith of 1850 in The British Apollo, with its two thousand answers, may not be equal
to the faith of 1740, what dependence are we to place in the origin it attributes to two very
common words, a bull, and a dun?--

    "Why, when people speak improperly, is it termed a bull?--It
    became a proverb from the repeated blunders of one Obadiah
    Bull, a lawyer of London, who lived in the reign of King Henry
    VII."

Now for the second,--

    "Pray tell me whence you can derive the original of the word
    dun? Some falsely think it comes from the French, where
    donnez signifies give me, implying a demand of something
    due; but the true original of this expression owes its birth to
    one Joe Dun, a famous bailiff of the town of Lincoln, so
    extremely active, and so dexterous at the management of his
    rough business, that it became a proverb, when a man refused to
    pay his debts, 'Why don't you Dun him?' that is, why don't you
    send Dun to arrest him? Hence it grew a custom, and is now as
    old as since the days of Henry VII."

Were these twin worthies, Obadiah Bull the lawyer, and Joe Dun the bailiff, men of straw for
the nonce, or veritable flesh and blood? They both flourished, it appears, in the reign of
Henry VII.; and to me it is doubtful whether one reign could have produced two worthies capable
of cutting so deep a notch in the English tongue.

"To dine with Duke Humphrey," we are told, arose from the practice of those who had shared
his dainties when alive being in the habit of perambulating St. Paul's, where he was buried,
at the dining time of day; what dinner they then had, they had with Duke Humphrey the defunct.

Your contributor MR. CUNNINGHAM will be able to decide as to the value of the origin of Tyburn
here given to us:

    "As to the antiquity of Tyburn, it is no older than the year
    1529; before that time, the place of execution was in Rotten
    Row in Old Street. As for the etymology of the word Tyburn,
    some will have it proceed from the words tye and burn,
    alluding to the manner of executing traitors at that place;
    others believe it took its name from a small river or brook once
    running near it, and called by the Romans Tyburnia. Whether the
    first or second is the truest, the querist may judge as he
    thinks fit."

And so say I.

A readable volume might be compiled from these "NOTES AND QUERIES," which amused our grandfathers;
and the works I have indicated will afford much curious matter in etymology, folk-lore, topography,
&c., to the modern antiquary.

CORKSCREW.

       *       *       *       *       *

JAMES THE SECOND, HIS REMAINS.

The following curious account was given to me by Mr. Fitz-Simons, an Irish gentleman, upwards
of eighty years of age, with whom I became acquainted when resident with my family at Toulouse,
in September, 1840; he having resided in that city for many years as a teacher of the French
and English languages, and had attended the late Sir William Follett in the former capacity
there in 1817. He said,--

    "I was a prisoner in Paris, in the convent of the English
    Benedictines in the Rue St. Jaques, during part of the
    revolution. In the year 1793 or 1794, the body of King James II.
    of England was in one of the chapels there, where it had been
    deposited some time, under the expectation that it would one day
    be sent to England for interment in Westminster Abbey. It had
    never been buried. The body was in a wooden coffin, inclosed in
    a leaden one; and that again inclosed in a second wooden one,
    covered with black velvet. That while I was so a prisoner, the
    sans-culottes broke open the coffins to get at the lead to cast
    into bullets. The body lay exposed nearly a whole day. It was
    swaddled like a mummy, bound tight with garters. The
    sans-culottes took out the body, which had been embalmed. There
    was a strong smell of vinegar and camphor. The corpse was
    beautiful and perfect. The hands and nails were very fine, I
    moved and bent every finger. I never saw so fine a set of teeth
    in my life. A young lady, a fellow prisoner, wished much to have
    a tooth; I tried to get one out for her, but could not, they
    were so firmly fixed. The feet also were very beautiful. The
    face and cheeks were just as if he were alive. I rolled his
    eyes: the eye-balls were perfectly firm under my finger. The
    French and English prisoners {244} gave money to the
    sans-culottes for showing the body. They said he was a good
    sans-culotte, and they were going to put him into a hole in the
    public churchyard like other sand-culottes; and he was carried
    away, but where the body was thrown I never heard. King George
    IV. tried all in his power to get tidings of the body, but could
    not. Around the chapel were several wax moulds of the face hung
    up, made probably at the time of the king's death, and the
    corpse was very like them. The body had been originally kept at
    the palace of St. Germain, from whence it was brought to the
    convent of the Benedictines. Mr. Porter, the prior, was a
    prisoner at the time in his own convent."

The above I took down from Mr. Fitz-Simons' own mouth, and read it to him, and he said it was
perfectly correct. Sir W. Follett told me he thought Mr. Fitz-Simons was a runaway Vinegar
Hill boy. He told me that he was a monk.

PITMAN JONES.

Exeter, Aug. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

The Legend of Sir Richard Baker (vol. ii., p. 67.).--Will F.L. copy the inscription on the
monument in Cranbrook Church? The dates on it will test the veracity of the legend. In the
reign of Queen Mary, the representative of the family was Sir John Baker, who in that, and
the previous reigns of Edward VI. and Henry VIII., had held some of the highest offices in
the kingdom. He had been Recorder of London, Speaker of the House of Commons, Attorney-General
and Chancellor of the Exchequer, and died in the first year of the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
His son, Sir Richard Baker, was twice high-sheriff of the county of Kent, and had the honour
of entertaining Queen Elizabeth in her progress through the county. This was, most likely,
the person whose monument F.L. saw in Cranbrook Church. The family had been settled there from
the time of Edward III., and seem to have been adding continually to their possessions; and
at the time mentioned by F.L. as that of their decline, namely, in the reign of Edward VI.,
they were in reality increasing in wealth and dignities. If the Sir Richard Baker whose monument
is referred to by F.L. was the son of the Sir John above mentioned, the circumstances of his
life disprove the legend. He was not the sole representative of the family remaining at the
accession of Queen Mary. His father was then living, and at the death of his father his brother
John divided with him the representation of the family, and had many descendants. The family
estates were not dissipated; on the contrary, they were handed down through successive generations,
to one of whom, a grandson of Sir Richard, the dignity of a baronet was given; and Sivinghurst,
which was the family seat, was in the possession of the third and last baronet's grandson,
E.S. Beagham, in the year 1730. Add to this that the Sir Richard Baker in question was twice
married, and that a monumental erection of the costly and honourable description mentioned
by F.L. was allowed to be placed to his memory in the chancel of the church of the parish in
which such Bluebeard atrocities are said to have been committed, and abundant grounds will
thence appear for rejecting the truth of the legend in the absence of all evidence. The unfortunately
red colour of the gloves most likely gave rise to the story. Nor is this a solitary instance
of such a legend having such an origin. In the beautiful parish church of Aston, in Warwickshire,
are many memorials of the Baronet family of Holt, who owned the adjoining domain and hall,
the latter of which still remains, a magnificent specimen of Elizabethan architecture. Either
in one of the compartments of a painted window of the church, or upon a monumental marble to
one of the Holts, is the Ulster badge, as showing the rank of the deceased, and painted red.
From the colour of the badge, a legend of the bloody hand has been created as marvellous as
that of the Bloody Baker, so fully detailed by F.L.

ST. JOHNS.

[Will our correspondent favour us by communicating the Aston Legend of the Holt Family to which
he refers?]

