    [13] Mr. James Sibbon, who was a journeyman shipwright in
         Deptford yard when the Tzar was there; he died in 1769,
         aged 105 years.--Annual Register for 1769.

When residing at Deptford he requested to see the celebrated Dr. Halley, to whom he communicated
his plans of building a fleet, and in general of introducing the arts and sciences into his
country, and asked his opinion and advice on various subjects; the doctor spoke German fluently,
and the Tzar was so much pleased with the philosopher's conversation and remarks, that he had
him frequently to dine with him; and in his company he visited the Royal Observatory in Greenwich
Park.

As in Amsterdam, so also in London, he visited the manufactories and workshops of various artificers,
and purchased whatever he deemed either curious or useful; and among other things "he bought
the famous geographical clock made by Mr. John Carte, watchmaker, at the sign of the Dial and
Crown, near Essex-street in the Strand, which clock tells what o'clock it is in any part of
the world, whether it is day or night, the sun's rising and setting throughout the year, its
entrance into the signs of the zodiac; the arch which they and the sun in them makes above
or below the horizon, with several other curious motions."[14] He was very curious in examining
the mechanism of a watch, and it is said he could take one of these ingenious machines to pieces,
and put it together again, before he left London.

    [14] Postman, No. 136.

The king had promised Peter that there should be no impediment in his way of engaging, and
taking with him to Russia, such English artificers, and scientific men, as he might desire,
with such instruments as their trade or profession required.

The number of all descriptions of persons that finally left England, when the Tzar returned
to Holland, is stated to have been nearly as follows:--Three captains of ships of war, twenty-five
captains of merchant ships, thirty pilots, thirty surgeons, two hundred gunners, four mast-makers,
four boat-builders, two master sail-makers and twenty workmen, two compass-makers, two carvers,
two anchor-smiths, two lock-smiths, two copper-smiths and two tinmen; making, with some others,
not much less than five hundred persons. However uncouth the manners of Peter may have been,
he was a great favourite with King William, and the Tzar had also a high opinion of his Majesty,
whom he visited frequently, and consulted on all important occasions. The king engaged him
to sit for his portrait to Sir Godfrey Kneller, who painted a very good picture, said to be
a strong likeness, which is now at Windsor, and the portrait at the head of this volume is
engraved from it.

(The reader will recollect Peter at Zaandam. In after-life he visited this place,) and the
little cottage in which some nineteen years before he had dwelt, when learning the art of ship-building:
he found it kept up in neat order, and dignified with the name of the Prince's House. This
little cottage is still carefully preserved. It is surrounded by a neat building with large
arched windows, having the appearance of a conservatory or green-house, which was erected in
1823 by order of the present Princess of Orange, sister to the late Emperor Alexander, who
purchased it to secure its preservation. In the first room you still see the little oak table
and three chairs which constituted its furniture when Peter occupied it. Over the chimney-piece
is inscribed

    PETRO MAGNO
    ALEXANDER,

and in the Russian and Dutch,

    "To a Great Man nothing is little."

The ladder to the loft still remains, and in the second little room below are some models and
several of his working-tools. Thousands of names are scribbled over every part of this once
humble residence of Peter the Great.

On entering this cottage, Peter is said to have been evidently affected. Recovering himself,
he ascended the loft, where was a small closet, in which he had been accustomed to perform
his devotions and remained there alone a full half-hour; with what various emotions his mind
must have been affected while in this situation, could be known only to himself, but might
easily be imagined. It could hardly fail to recall to his recollection the happy period when
he "communed with his own heart" in this sacred little chamber, and "remembered his Creator
in the days of his youth,"--days which he might naturally enough be led to compare and contrast
with those of the last nineteen years of his life, filled up as they had been with many and
varied incidents, painful, hazardous, disastrous and glorious.

Every one was anxious to bring to his recollection any little circumstance in which he had
been concerned,--among others, a beautiful boat was brought to him as a present, in the building
of which he himself had done "yeoman service." He was delighted to see that this ancient piece
of the workmanship of his own hands had been preserved with such care. He caused it to be put
on board a ship bound for Petersburg, but she was unfortunately captured by the Swedes; and
the boat is still kept in the arsenal of Stockholm.

With his old acquaintance, Kist, the blacksmith, he visited the smithy, which was so dirty
that the gentleman of his suite who attended him was retreating, but Peter stopped him to blow
the bellows and heat a piece of iron, which, when so done, he beat out with the great hammer.
Kist was still but a journeyman blacksmith, and the Tzar out of compassion for his old acquaintance
made him a handsome present.

[The Editor's conclusion, or brief summary, is sketched as follows.]

The character of Peter the Great, as has been shown in the course of this memoir, was a strange
compound of contradictions. Owing to the circumstances in which he was placed, and the determination
to execute the plan he had conceived of remodelling the customs and institutions of his country,
he had to maintain a constant struggle between his good and evil genius. Nothing was too great,
nothing too little for his comprehensive mind. The noblest undertakings were mixed with the
most farcical amusements; the most laudable institutions, for the benefit and improvement of
his subjects, were followed by shaving their beards and docking their skirts;--kind-hearted,
benevolent, and humane, he set no value on human life. Owing to these, and many other incongruities,
his character has necessarily been represented in various points of view and in various colours
by his biographers. Of him, however, it can scarcely be said, that

  The evil which men do lives after them,
  The good is oft interred with their bones.

With the exception of a few foreign writers, who have generally compiled their memoirs from
polluted sources, the reverse of the aphorism may be applied to Peter. His memory, among his
countrymen, who ought to be the best judges, and of whom he was at once the scourge and the
benefactor, is held in the highest veneration, and is consecrated in their history and their
public monuments to everlasting fame. The magnificent equestrian statue, erected by Catharine
II.; the waxen figure of Peter in the museum of the Academy founded by himself; the dress,
the sword, and the hat, which he wore at the battle of Pultowa, the last pierced through with
a ball: the horse that he rode in that battle; the trousers, worsted stockings, shoes, and
cap, which he wore at Zaandam, all in the same apartment; his two favourite dogs, his turning-lathe
and tools, with specimens of his workmanship; the iron bar which he forged with his own hand
at Olonitz; the Little Grandsire, so carefully preserved, as the first germ of the Russian
navy; and the wooden hut in which he lived while superintending the first foundation of Petersburg;--these,
and a thousand other tangible memorials, all preserved with the utmost care, speak in most
intelligible language the opinion which the Russians hold of the Father of his Country.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DODO.

Every reader of popular natural history must recollect the figure of this extraordinary bird;
although he may not be aware that it is considered to have become extinct towards the end of
the seventeenth or beginning of the eighteenth century. The conditions of this disappearance
are self-evident.[15] Imagine a bird of the gallinaceous (gallus, cock, or pheasant) tribe,
considerably larger than a turkey, and consequently adapted for food, totally incapable of
flying, and so unwieldy as to be easily run down, and it must be quite obvious that such a
bird could not long continue to exist in any country to which mankind extended their dominion.
This will account for its being found only in those islands of the Indian Ocean which, on their
being first discovered by Europeans, were uninhabited, or difficult of access to the nearest
people. The group which is situated to the eastward of Madagascar, consisting of Bourbon, Mauritius,
and Roderigue, were almost the only islands of this description met with by the early circumnavigators
of the Cape; and it is there that we find the last traces of this very remarkable bird, which
disappeared, of course, from Bourbon and the Mauritius first, on account of their being more
visited and finally colonized by the French; and lastly from Roderigue, an island extremely
difficult of access, and without any safe bay or anchorage for shipping.

    [15] We are aware that the destruction or total extinction of
         any of the species of animals of contemporaneous creation
         with man, is a point of much controversy among
         philosophers. The best reply to this doubt is the
         repeated discovery of the fossil remains of animals
         entirely different from the existing species; proving
         their extinction to form a part of the scheme of creative
         wisdom.

We obtain these particulars from a paper in the Magazine of Natural History,[16] by John V.
Thompson, Esq. F.L.S. This gentleman, during a residence of some years in the above islands,
in vain sought for some traces of the existence of the Dodo there; he discovered, however,
a copy of the scarce and curious voyage of Leguat, who, and his companions, appear to have
been the first inhabitants of Roderigue: and from their journal he has translated the following
account of the Dodo.

    [16] Vol. i. p. 442.

"Of all the birds which inhabit this island, the most remarkable is that which has been called
Solitaire (the solitary), because they are rarely seen in flocks, although there is abundance
of them.

"The males have generally a greyish or brown plumage, the feet of the turkey-cock, as also
the beak, but a little more hooked. They have hardly any tail, and their posterior, covered
with feathers, is rounded like the croup of a horse. They stand higher than the turkey-cock,
and have a straight neck, a little longer in proportion than it is in that bird when it raises
its head. The eye is black and lively, and the head without any crest or tuft. They do not
fly, their wings being too short to support the weight of their bodies; they only use them
in beating their sides, and in whirling round; when they wish to call one another, they make,
with rapidity, twenty or thirty rounds in the same direction, during the space of four or five
minutes; the movement of their wings then makes a noise which approaches exceedingly that of
a kestrel (Crécerelle), and which is heard at more than 200 paces distant. The bone of the
false pinion is enlarged at its extremity, and forms, under the feathers, a little round mass
like a musket-bullet; this and their beak form the principal defence of this bird. It is extremely
difficult to catch them in the woods; but as a man runs swifter than they, in the more open
spots it is not very difficult to take them; sometimes they may even be approached very easily.
From the month of March until September, they are extremely fat, and of most excellent flavour,
especially when young. The males may be found up to the weight of 45 lb.; Herbert even says 50 lb.

"The female is of admirable beauty. Some are of a blond, others of a brown, colour; I mean
by blond the colour of flaxen hair. They have a kind of band, like the bandeau of widows, above
the beak, which is of a tan colour. One feather does not pass another over all their body,
because they take great care to adjust and polish them with their beak. The feathers which
accompany the thighs are rounded into a shell-like form, and, as they are very dense at this
place, produce a very agreeable effect. They have two elevations over the crop, of a somewhat
whiter plumage than the rest, and which resemble wonderfully the fine breast of a woman. They
walk with so much stateliness and grace combined, that it is impossible not to admire and love
them; so much so, that their appearance has often saved their life.

"Although these birds approach, at times, very familiarly when they are not chased, they are
incapable of being tamed; as soon as caught, they drop tears, without crying, and refuse obstinately
all kind of nourishment, until at last they die. There is always found in their gizzard (as
well as in that of the males) a brown stone, the size of a hen's egg; it is slightly tuberculated
(raboteuse), flat on one side, and rounded on the other, very heavy and very hard. We imagined
that this stone was born with them, because, however young they might be, they always had it,
and never more than one; and besides this circumstance, the canal which passes from the crop
to the gizzard, is by one-half too small to give passage to such a mass. We used them, in preference
to any other stone, to sharpen our knives.

"When these birds set about building their nests, they choose a clear spot, and raise it a
foot and a half off the ground, upon a heap of leaves of the palm tree, which they collect
together for the purpose. They only lay one egg, which is very much larger than that of a goose.
The male and female sit by turns, and it does not hatch until after a period of seven weeks.
During the whole period of incubation, or that they are rearing their young one, which is not
capable of providing for itself until after several months, they will not suffer any bird of
their own kind to approach within 200 paces of their nest; and what is very singular is, that
the male never chases away the females; only, when he perceives one, he makes, in whirling,
his ordinary noise, to call his companion, which immediately comes and gives chase to the stranger,
and which she does not quit until driven without their limits. The female does the same and
allows the males to be driven off by her mate. This is a circumstance that we so often witnessed,
that I speak of it with certainty. These combats last sometimes for a long time, because the
stranger only turns off, without going in a straight line from the nest; nevertheless, the
others never quit until they have chased them away."[17]

    [17] Voyage de François Leguat, Gentilhomme, Bressan, 1708.

Mr. Thompson finds this evidence strengthened by the facts and statements of a paper by Mr.
Duncan, in the Zoological Journal for January, 1828; and infers that a bird of corresponding
size and character did actually exist, of which the only remains are a bill and foot in the
Ashmolean Museum at Oxford, and a foot in the British Museum, all of which Mr. Thompson examined
on his return from the Mauritius in 1816. The specimen, which in part remains at Oxford, was
originally in the museum of Tradescant, at Lambeth, which was purchased and removed to Oxford
by Dr. Ashmole; the entire bird is proved to have been in the Museum in 1700; and in a catalogue
of the collection drawn up since 1755, the disappearance of all but the bill and foot of the
Dodo is explained by an order of a meeting of the visitors in the last-named year. Tradescant,
it will be recollected, was gardener to Charles the Second; and in the portrait of him still
preserved is introduced a Dodo, which belonged to him when alive. Another painting of the bird,
to be seen in the British Museum, is stated by Mr. Duncan, to have been executed from a living
bird, sent from the Mauritius to Holland, the Dutch being the first colonists of that island;
but, Mr. Thompson thinks, "to dissipate all doubts as to its accuracy, it should be collated
with a description taken from the Ashmolean specimen, should such be found to exist."

Mr. Thompson is inclined to consider Leguat's natural history of the Dodo as "the only one
that was ever penned under such favourable circumstances. No doubt this first colony, in so
small an island, considerably reduced the number of the Dodo; but when they finally disappeared,
does not seem to be anywhere recorded." The most interesting consideration connected with their
disappearance is their being "the only vertebrated animals which we can make certain of having
lost since the creation. If we seek to find out what link in the chain of Nature has been broken
by the loss of this species, what others have lost their check, and what others necessarily
followed the loss of those animals which alone contributed to their support," Mr. Thompson
thinks "we may conclude that, the first being seen by the Omniscient Creator, at least no injury
will be sustained by the rest of the creation; that man, its destroyer, was probably intended
to supplant it, as a check; and that the only other animals which its destruction drew with
it, were the intestinal worms and pediculi peculiar to the species."

Buffon, Latham, and Gmelin have three species of Dodo, while we find it difficult to establish
the existence of one. Indeed, it is improbable that the three islands of the Mauritius group
possessed each a distinct type of so singular and unique a bird.

       *       *       *       *       *

MOUNT ARARAT.

Ararat is celebrated as the resting-place of Noah's ark after the Deluge, and as the spot whence
the descendants of Noah peopled the earth. It rises on the Persian frontier, on a large plain,
detached, as it were, from the other mountains of Armenia, which make a long chain. It consists,
properly speaking, of two hills--the highest of which, where the ark is said to have rested,[18]
is, according to Parrot, 2,700 toises, or 17,718 feet above the level of the ocean.[19] The
summit is covered with perpetual snow; the lower parts are composed of a deep, moving sand;
and one side presents a vast chasm tinged with smoke, from which flames have been known to issue.

    [18] The precise spot is controverted, as will be seen in an
         extract from the ingenious work on Scriptural
         Antiquities, quoted in vol. xix. of the Mirror, p. 382;
         where are notices of the mountain by Morier and Sir
         Robert Ker Porter. The latter describes Ararat as
         divided, by a chasm of about seven miles wide, into two
         distinct peaks, and is of opinion that the ark finally
         rested in this chasm.

    [19] Edin. New Phil. Journ. By Professor Jameson. No. 23, p.
         156.--Note to a paper by Humboldt, on the Mountain Chains
         and Volcanoes of Central Asia. Ararat is referred to in
         Genesis, viii. 4. Its distance and bearing from
         Jerusalem, 650, N.E.b.N.; Lat. North, 39.40. Long. East,
         43.50. Country, Erivan; Province, Mahou.--From the
         General Index to the Biblical Family Cabinet Atlas.

Perhaps the most recent visit to this wonder of the East will be found described in Mr. J.H.
Stocqueler's Journal of Fifteen Months' Pilgrimage through untrodden Tracts of Khuzistan and
Persia, in 1831 and 1832:--

"We mounted our horses," says the enthusiastic traveller, "soon after sunrise, and had proceeded
for about four hours over numerous acclivities, and through a territory of undulations resembling
the waves of the sea deprived of motion, when the southern peak of Ararat (for there are two),
snow-clad and 'cloud-clapt' suddenly burst upon my view! At first I scarcely dared venture
to believe we were so near this celebrated mount, though its situation and the distance we
had journeyed from Tabreez left no doubt of the fact. I even questioned the guide, and on his
answering that it was the summit of Agri-Dagh (the name by which Ararat is called by the Turks),
I involuntarily clasped my hands in ecstacy! Who can contemplate this superb elevation without
a mixture of awe and admiration, or fail to recur to the page of sacred writ illustrative of
Almighty wrath and the just man's recompense? Who can gaze upon the majesty of this mount,
towering above the 'high places' and the hills, and turn without repining to the plains beneath,
where puny man has pitched his tent and wars upon his fellow, mocking the sublimity of Nature
with his paltry tyranny? I felt as if I lived in other times, and my eye eagerly but vainly
sought for some traces of that 'ark' which furnished a refuge and a shelter to the creatures
of God's mercy when the 'waters prevailed, and were increased greatly on the earth,' till 'all
in whose nostrils was the breath of life, and all that was in the dry land, died!'

"Though distant forty miles at least from the base of Ararat, the magnitude of the mountain,
of about the centre of which our elevated position now placed us abreast, caused it to appear
contiguous to our route, and produced that indefinable thrill and sense of humility which the
immediate presence of any vast and overpowering object is so eminently calculated to generate.
I continued to gaze until the decline of day warned us to seek a shelter, and Phoebus, casting
a parting glance at the crystal summit of the noble glacier, for a moment diffused over all
a soft rosy tint,[20] then sunk into the west and left the world in darkness."

    [20] This peculiar effect of the setting sun on snow-covered
         mountains has been observed by other travellers in other
         regions. In Switzerland the phenomenon is by no means
         rare.

           "And sun-set into rose hues sees them wrought."

         Byron.

       *       *       *       *       *

NUTRIA FUR.

(To the Editor.)

I read with much pleasure the article in your Number, 574, on Nutria Fur: it was, to me, particularly
acceptable, as I have been connected for the last ten years with an establishment where, on
an average, 150,000 Nutria Skins are annually manufactured, and the wool cut for the use of
hatters. I have searched every book of travels in Brazil, &c., that I could procure, and the
chief English works on zoology, without being able to gather any description of the scientific
name or habits of the animal. All the information I could collect was from the captains of
various vessels that had visited Buenos Ayres, and brought cargoes of skins; but their accounts
were extremely vague and unsatisfactory.

I perceive, however, that you have overlooked a peculiarity generally attributed to the animal,
which, if true, is, in my opinion, deserving notice: viz.--the position of the female's teats,
which are not placed on the belly, as with most animals, but on the side, approaching to the
back, by which means it is enabled to suckle its young on both sides at once, whilst swimming
on the surface of the water; and it presents, I have understood, a singular group to the observant
traveller.

I have sent the skin of a female Nutria herewith, for your inspection, as regards the teats,
&c. (from which the fur has been cut by machinery,) with a small sample of the belly fur, prepared
for the covering of a hat; the wholesale price of the latter is now three guineas per lb.:
it is used as a substitute for beaver-wool on second-rate hats. Our French correspondents term
the skins "Ratgondin."

BENJAMIN NORRIS, JUN.

Windsor Place, Southwark Bridge Road.

*** We thank our intelligent correspondent for this communication, as well as for the skin
and fur. The skin is rather above the usual size: its length is 26 inches, the tail being cut
off; as is always done before the skins are exported: the width of the skin is 15 inches; the
teats, nine in number, are in two rows, each row being about 2-1/2 inches from the centre of
the back, and about 5 inches from the centre of the belly; so that they are, as our correspondent
observes, on the side, approaching to the back nearer by half than to the belly. This position
of the teats appears to correspond with the animal's habit of suckling its young whilst swimming.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHOLERA MOUNT.

Lines on the Burying-Place for Patients who have Died of Cholera; a pleasant eminence in Sheffield
Park.

By James Montgomery, Esq.

  In death divided from their dearest kin,
  This is "a field to bury strangers in:"
  Fragments lie here of families bereft,
  Like limbs in battle-grounds by warriors left;
  A sad community!--whose very bones
  Might feel, methinks, a pang to quicken stones,
  And make them from the depths of darkness cry,
  "Oh! is it naught to you, ye passers by!
  When from its earthly house the spirit fled,
  Our dust might not be 'free among the dead?'
  Ah! why were we to this Siberia sent,
  Doom'd in the grave itself to banishment?"

    Shuddering humanity asks--"Who are these?
  And what their sin?"--They fell by one disease!
  (Not by the Proteus maladies, that strike
  Man into nothingness--not twice alike;)
  By the blue pest, whose gripe no art can shun,
  No force unwrench--out-singled one by one;
  When like a timeless birth, the womb of Fate
  Bore a new death, of unrecorded date,
  And doubtful name. Far east its race begun,
  Thence round the world pursued the westering sun;
  The ghosts of millions following at its back,
  Whose desecrated graves betray'd their track;
  On Albion's shore, unseen, the invader stept;
  Secret, and swift, and terrible it crept;
  At noon, at midnight, seized the weak, the strong,
  Asleep, awake, alone, amidst the throng,
  Kill'd like a murder; fix'd its icy hold,
  And wrung out life with agony of cold;
  Nor stay'd its vengeance where it crush'd the prey,
  But set a mark, like Cain's, upon their clay,
  And this tremendous seal impress'd on all,
  "Bury me out of sight, and out of call."

    Wherefore no filial foot this turf may tread,
  No kneeling mother clasp her baby's bed;
  No maiden unespoused, with widow'd sighs,
  Seek her soul's treasure where her true-love lies;
  --All stand aloof, and gazing from afar,
  Look on this mount as on some baleful star,
  Strange to the heavens, that with bewildering light,
  Like a lost spirit, wanders through the night.

    Yet many a mourner weeps her fall'n estate,
  In many a home by them left desolate;
  Once warm with love, and radiant with the smiles
  Of woman, watching infants at their wiles,
  Whose eye of thought, while now they throng her knees,
  Pictures far other scene than that she sees,
  For one is wanting--one, for whose dear sake,
  Her heart with very tenderness would ache,
  As now with anguish--doubled when she spies
  In this his lineaments, in that his eyes,
  In each his image with her own commix'd,
  And there at least, for life, their union fix'd!

    Humanity again asks, "Who are these?
  And what their sin?"--They fell by one disease!
  But when they knock'd for entrance at the tomb,
  Their fathers' bones refused to make them room;
  Recoiling Nature from their presence fled,
  As though a thunder-bolt had struck them dead;
  Their cries pursued her with the thrilling plea,
  "Give us a little earth for charity!"
  She linger'd, listen'd; all her bosom yearn'd;
  The mother's pulse through every vein return'd;
  Then, as she halted on this hill, she threw
  Her mantle wide, and loose her tresses flew.
  "Live!" to the slain she cried: "My children live!
  This for an heritage to you I give;
  Had Death consumed you by the common lot
  Ye, with the multitude, had been forgot;
  Now through an age of ages ye shall not."

    Thus Nature spake;--and as her echo, I
  Take up her parable, and prophesy:
  Here, as from spring to spring the swallows pass,
  Perennial daisies shall adorn the grass;
  Here the shrill skylark build her annual nest,
  And sing in heaven, while you serenely rest;
  On trembling dewdrops morn's first glance shall shine,
  Eve's latest beams on this fair bank decline,
  And oft the rainbow steal through light and gloom,
  To throw its sudden arch across your tomb;
  On you the moon her sweetest influence shower,
  And every planet bless you in its hour.
  With statelier honours still, in Time's slow round,
  Shall this sepulchral eminence be crown'd;
  Where generations long to come shall hail
  The growth of centuries waving in the gale,
  A forest landmark, on the mountain's head,
  Standing betwixt the living and the dead;
  Nor, while your language lasts, shall travellers cease
  To say, at sight of your memorial, "Peace!"
  Your voice of silence answering from the sod,
  "Whoe'er thou art, prepare to meet thy God!"

Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE STEAM ENGINE SIMPLIFIED.

It is a universal property of matter, that by the application of heat, so as to raise its temperature,
it suffers an increase in its magnitude. Also in different substances, when certain temperatures
are attained by the application of fire, or other methods of heating, they undergo a change
of form. Solids, at certain temperatures, are converted into liquids; and liquids, in like
manner, when heated to certain degrees, become aeriform fluids or gases. These changes are
familiar to every one in the ordinary phenomena attending water. Below the temperature of 32°
of the common thermometer, that substance exists in the solid form, and is called ice. Above
that temperature it passes into the liquid state, and is called water; and when raised to the
temperature of 212°, under ordinary circumstances, it passes into the aeriform state, and is
called steam. It is to this last change that we wish at present principally to call the attention
of the reader. In the transition of water from the liquid state to the state of vapour or steam,
an immense change of bulk takes place. In this change, a solid inch of water enlarges its size
about 1,700 times, and forms 1,700 solid inches of steam. This expansion takes place accompanied
with a certain force or pressure, by which the vapour has a tendency to burst the bounds of
any vessel which contains it. The steam which fills 1,700 solid inches at the temperature of
212°, will, if cooled below that temperature, return to the liquid form, and occupy only one
solid inch, leaving 1,699 solid inches vacant; and, if it be included in a close vessel, leaving
the surfaces of that vessel free from the internal pressure to which they were subject before
the return of the water to the liquid form. If it be possible, therefore, alternately to convert
water into vapour by heat, and to reconvert the vapour into water by cold, we shall be enabled
alternately to submit any surface to a pressure equal to the elastic force of the steam, and
to relieve it from that pressure, so as to permit it to move in obedience to any other force
which may act upon it. Or again, suppose that we are enabled to expose one side of a movable
body to the action of water converted into steam, at the moment that we relieve the other side
from the like pressure by reconverting the steam which acts upon it into water, the movable
body will be impelled by the unresisted pressure of the steam on one side. When it has moved
a certain distance in obedience to this force, let us suppose that the effects are reversed.
Let the steam which pressed it forwards be now reconverted into water, so as to have its action
suspended; and at the same moment, let steam raised from water by heat be caused to act on
the other side of the movable body; the consequence will obviously be, that it will now change
the direction of its motion, and return in obedience to the pressure excited on the opposite
side. Such is, in fact, the operation of an ordinary low-pressure steam-engine. The piston
or plug which plays in the cylinder is the movable to which we have referred. The vapour of
water is introduced upon one side of that piston at the moment that a similar vapour is converted
into water on the other side, and the piston moves by the unresisted action of the steam. When
it has arrived at the extremity of the cylinder, the steam which just urged it forwards is
reconverted into water, and the piston is relieved from its action. At the same moment, a fresh
supply of steam is introduced upon the other side of the piston, and its pressure causes the
piston to be moved in a direction contrary to its former motion. Thus the piston is moved in
the cylinder alternately in the one direction and in the other, with a force equivalent to
the pressure of the steam which acts upon it. A strong metal rod proceeds from this piston,
and communicates with proper machinery, by which the alternate motion of the piston backwards
and forwards, or upwards and downwards, in the cylinder, may be communicated to whatever body
is intended to be moved.

The power of such a machine will obviously depend partly on the magnitude of the piston or
the movable surface which is exposed to the action of the steam, and partly on the pressure
of the steam itself. The object of converting the steam into water by cold, upon that side
of the piston towards which the motion takes place, is to relieve the piston from all resistance
to the moving power. This renders it unnecessary to use steam of a very high pressure, inasmuch
as it will have no resistance to overcome, except the friction of the piston with the cylinder,
and the ordinary resistance of the load which it may have to move. Engines constructed upon
this principle, not requiring, therefore, steam of a great pressure, have been generally called
"low-pressure engines." The re-conversion of the steam into water requires a constant and abundant
supply of cold water, and a fit apparatus for carrying away the water which becomes heated,
by cooling the steam, and for supplying its place by a fresh quantity of cold water. It is
obvious that such an apparatus is incompatible with great simplicity and lightness, nor can
it be applied to cases where the engine is worked under circumstances in which a fresh supply
of water cannot be had.

