Thursday.--After long period of anxiety, House to-night reassured. GEDGE, who hasn't been seen
since he disappeared after obstructing passage through Committee of Tithes Bill, turned up
again. Curiously regarded by House; looked for signs of privation, but no falling off visible,
whether in physical contour or volume of voice. Tithes Bill during his absence has gone through
Committee and Report stage. Now awaiting Third Reading. GEDGE proposed to continue his speech
interrupted by stroke of Midnight, when House in Committee. Fixed himself obligingly behind
GOSCHEN and HICKS-BEACH, so that they should miss nothing of his counsel, and started off.
Instantly arose stormy cries for Division. GEDGE, wherever he has been, seems to have been
well-fed, and kept generally in good fettle. Cheerfully accepted challenge to vocal contest.
Every time he commenced sentence the boisterous chorus, "'vide! 'vide! 'vide!" rang though
House. Opposition, who didn't want Bill, started it; Ministerialists, anxious to see Bill pass,
took it up; a roaring, excited crowd; amid them GEDGE, grey-faced, imperturbable, with mouth
wide open, shouting in the ear of the pleased CHANCELLOR of the EXCHEQUER. Business done.--Tithes
Bill read Third Time by 250 Votes against 161.

Friday.--The United Services come nobly to the front to-day, all about Nelson's Pillar in Sackville
Street, Dublin. However it may be at Westminster, Irish Members can't abear obstruction at
home; brought in Bill to remove Monument lower down street; long debate; towards close Admiral
FIELD suddenly hove in sight; bore down on enemy.

"As humble naval officer," he roared, as through a speaking-trumpet, "I protest against addressing
our immortal naval hero in the words of the Poet, saying unto him, 'Friend, go down lower.'"

General FRASER, V.C., sitting next to Admiral on Front Bench below the Gangway; bosom swelled
with generous emulation; Navy attacked; duty of Army to come to its assistance. General doesn't
often speak; appearances as public orator chiefly confined to responding to patriotic toast
at dinners. This led him a little astray. Drawing himself up to full height, setting hands
on hips, he began, in deep bass voice, "In rising to respond to this toast--" Then, remembering
where he was, he executed strategic retreat, and addressed himself to SPEAKER.

Spectacle of the two veterans defending memory of NELSON deeply touched House. Nevertheless,
Bill carried. Business done.--Counted Out at Half-past Seven.

       *       *       *       *       *

IN MONTAGU WILLIAMS' Later Leaves there is a small error, but of importance to the historian
of the English Stage, which can be corrected in the next edition:--Mr. KEELEY never played
Bob Mettles, and there is no such character in TOM TAYLOR's Our Clerks. Bob Nettles is one
of the principal characters in To Parents and Guardians, and it was played by Mrs. KEELEY,
her husband playing Waddilove. Middle-aged play-goers will remember both pieces; and in the
latter, no one will forget ALFRED WIGAN as the French Tutor.

       *       *       *       *       *

CIVIL SERVICE NOTE.--The Directors of the Covent Garden Opera Company present their compliments
to the C.S. Examiners, and trust that they will reconsider their determination to exclude the
Italian language from their list of subjects. The Directors will be happy to give every facility
to students during the forthcoming Opera season. Box Office now open. Reduction on taking a
quantity.