HAPPY DAYS
                             FOR
                        BOYS AND GIRLS.

                       136 ILLUSTRATIONS

                       CONTRIBUTIONS BY

  LOUISA M. ALCOTT, ALICE AND PHOEBE CAREY, C. A. STEPHENS,
     MARY N. PRESCOTT, WILLIAM M. THAYER, F. CHESEBORO,
            J. G. WOOD, S. W. LANDER, and others.

                        PHILADELPHIA:
                       PORTER & COATES,
                     822 CHESTNUT STREET.

                       Copyright, 1877,
           BY HORACE B. FULLER AND PORTER & COATES.

                          PRESS OF
                      HENRY B. ASHMEAD.
                        PHILADELPHIA.

CONTENTS.

PROSE.

                                                                PAGE
  Accident, The                       Louisa M. Alcott         280

  Adventure in the Life of Salvator
      Rosa                            L. D. L.                  84

  African Elephant, The               J. G. Wood               319

  Animal in Armor, The                                            75

  Aunt Thankful                       M. H.                    253

  Barn Swallows                       W. Wander                194

  Birds                               F. F. E.                  25

  "Bitters"                                                      203

  Books and Reading                                               36

  Bruin at a Maple-Sugar Party        C. A. Stephens           313

  Camels                              J. G. Wood               339

  Cave at Benton's Ridge              F. E. S.                 350

  Charley                                                        368

  Charlie's Escape                                               109

  Charlie's Christmas                                             79

  Crippled Boy, The                   S. W. Lander             374

  Daisy's Temptation                                             111

  Daring Feat                                                    183

  Davy Boys' Fishing-Pond             L. M. D.                 130

  Envy Punished                                                  271

  Every Cloud has a Silver Lining                                 31

  Faithful Friends                    X.                       237

  Fairy Bird, The                     Louisa M. Alcott         207

  Fred and Dog Stephen                                           205

  Giraffe, The                        J. G. Wood               188

  Going for the Letters                                          198

  Good Word not Lost                                             308

  Gratitude of a Cow                                             196

  Haunts of Wild Beasts               C. A. Stephens           355

  Help Yourselves                     Wm. M. Thayer             46

  Holiday Luck                        Sara Conant              296

  How a Good Dinner was Lost          Fannie Benedict          256

  How Maggie paid the Rent                                       227

  How Sweetie's "Ship came In"        Margaret Field            96

  Hunting Adventure                                              362

  If; or, Bessie Green's Holiday                                 176

  Iron Ring, The                      A. L. O. E.               76

  It takes Two to Make a Quarrel                                 306

  John Stocks and the Bison           Author of "Drifting
                                          to Sea"               138

  Kindness Rewarded                                               28

  Kindness to Animals                 Robert Handy             284

  Lace-making                                                     44

  Lame Susie                                                     261

  Lion the Fire-dog                   Benjamin Clarke           38

  Lion on the Threshold                                          190

  Marcellin                                                       82

  Merry Christmas                     E. G. C.                 166

  Monkeys                             L. B. U.                 301

  Motherless Boy, The                                             49

  Mouse and Canary, The                                          287

  Mrs. Pike's Prisoners               M. R. W.                 123

  My Mother's Stories                 E. E.                    303

  My Story                            S. P. Brigham            332

  Nearly Lost                                                    365

  Neddy's Half Holiday                                           121

  Nicolo's Little Friend              H. A. F.                 390

  Nino                                Sara Conant              244

  Orchard's Grandmother               S. O. J.                   9

  Parsees, The                                                   371

  Polly Arrives                       Louisa M. Alcott         282

  Ponto                                                          310

  Puppet                              Mary B. Harris           162

  Puss                                Robert Handy             293

  Que                                 Mary B. Harris           144

  Reason and Instinct                 Flaneur                   60

  Reginald's First School-Days                                   384

  Rough                               M. R. O.                  17

  Sally Sunbeam                                                  251

  Saved by a Fiddle                   Sir Lascelles Wraxall    211

  Song of the Bird                                               323

  Squanko                             F. Cheseboro             274

  Squirrels                                                      160

  St. Bernard Dog                                                 53

  Stitching and Teaching              E. G. C.                 152

  Stories about Dogs                                             137

  Strange Combat, A                   C. A. Stephens           116

  Sweet One for Polly                 Louisa M. Alcott         277

  Thorns                                                         347

  Tim the Match-Boy                                              268

  Truant, The                                                    393

  Two Friends. A Story for Boys                                  288

  Two Gentlemen in Fur Cloaks                                    107

  Uncle John's School-Days                                       234

  What Nelly gave Away                                           115

  White Butterfly                                                 63

  Wings                                                          273

  Working is Better than Wishing                                  65

  Young Artist, The                                              218

POETRY.

  All among the Hay                                              286

  Annie                                                          175

  Answer to a Child's Question                                   113

  Bird's Nest, The                    Mary. N. Prescott        216

  C--A--T                                                        186

  Cherry-Time                                                    128

  Child's Petition                                               392

  Child's Prayer                                                 137

  Children                                                        62

  Children's Song                                                141

  Cleopatra                           Edgar Fawcett            388

  Common Things                                                  249

  Coral-Workers, The                                              37

  Counting Baby's Toes                                           345

  Dinner and a Kiss                                              381

  Dream of Summer, A                  Mary N. Prescott          29

  Erl King                            Mary N. Prescott         241

  Faithful unto Death; or, The Sentry
      of Herculaneum                  W. B. B. Stevens         230

  Flight of the Birds                                             56

  For the Children                                                58

  Forced Rabbit, The                                             180

  From Bad to Worse                   Alice Cary               331

  Frost, The                                                      22

  Good-Humor                                                      35

  Good Shepherd, The                                              52

  I am Coming                                                    110

  Kind to Everything                                              68

  Let him Live                        Mary R. Whittlesey       300

  Little Helpers                                                  73

  Little Home-body                    Geo. Cooper              119

  Little Red Riding-Hood              L. E. Landon             224

  My Little Hero                                                  92

  My Mother                                                      382

  Minutes                                                        196

  My Picture                                                      23

  Music Lesson, The                                               22

  Nothing to Do                                                  105

  Now the Sun is Sinking                                         206

  Our Daily Bread                                                157

  Preparing for Christmas                                        143

  Rich and Poor                       Ellen M. H. Gates         42

  Rigmarole about a Tea-Party                                    206

  Robin Redbreast                                                 95

  Rustic Mirror, The                  M. R. W.                 222

  Sailing the Boats                   George Cooper            305

  Secret                              Mary R. Whittlesey       264

  Shakspeare                          Richard H. Stoddard      389

  Sheep and the Goat                                             328

  Silly Young Rabbit, The                                        242

  Silver and Gold                     Ellis Gray               265

  Smiles and Tears                                               390

  Snow-Fall                                                      151

  Snow-Man, The                       Marian Douglas           192

  Song of the Rose                    T. E. D.                  41

  Sparrow, The                                                   122

  Spring has Come                                                202

  Story of Johnny Dawdle                                          47

  Summer                                                          78

  That Calf                           Phoebe Cary               70

  To the Cardinal Flower              M. R. W.                  40

  Touch Not                                                       61

  Two Mornings                        Mary N. Prescott         267

  Under the Pear Trees                                           349

  Up and Doing                                                   182

  Vacation                            Beverly Moore            232

  War and Peace                                                  126

  Way to Walk                         M. R. W.                 337

  We should hear the Angels singing   Kate Cameron              91

  What so Sweet                       Mary N. Prescott         344

  What the Clock says                                            149

  Why                                                             24

  Willie's Prayer                                                159

  World, The                          Lilliput Lectures        185

  Worship of Nature                                              361

HAPPY DAYS.

THE ORCHARD'S GRANDMOTHER.

I must ask you to go back more than two hundred years, and watch two people in a quiet old
English garden.

One is an old lady reading. In her young days she was a famous beauty. That was very long ago,
to be sure; but I think she is a beauty still--do not you?

She has such a lovely face, and her eyes are so sweet and bright! and better than that, they
are the kind which see pleasant things in everybody, and something to like and be interested
in. I hope with all my heart yours are that kind, too.

The other person is a little child. She was christened Mary Brenton, like her grandmother;
but she was called Polly all her days, for short; and we will call her so.

She is sitting on the grass with a little cat in her arms, which she is trying to put to sleep.
But the kitten is not so accommodating as a doll would be, and just as Polly does not dare
to move for fear of waking her, she makes up her mind that a run after a leaf and a play with
any chance caterpillar which may be so unlucky as to cross her path, will be very preferable,
and tries to get away.

It is one of the most delightful days that ever was. September, and almost too warm, if it
were not for the breeze that brings cooler air from the sea. Once in a while some fruit falls
from the heavily-laden trees, and the first dead leaves rustle a little on the ground. The
bees are busy, making the most of the bright day; for they know of the stormy weather coming.
The sky is very blue, and the flowers very bright. Two swallows are playing hide-and-seek through
the orchard, and chasing each other in great races, now so close to the ground that it seems
as if their feet might catch in the green grass, and now away up in the air over the high walls
out towards the hills; and just as one loses sight of them, and turns away, here they are again.
And in the kitchen the girls are clattering the dishes and laughing; and do you hear some one
singing a doleful tune in a cheery, happy voice?

That is Dorothy, Polly's dear Dorothy, who waits upon grandmother, with whom she has been to
France, and Holland, and Scotland, and who can tell almost as charming stories as grandmother
herself.

The house is large and old, with queer-shaped windows, all sizes and all heights from the ground,
and a great many of them hidden by the ivy. That is the outside; and if you were to go in,
you would find large, low rooms, filled with furniture that you would think queer and uncomfortable.
And there are portraits in some of them, one of Polly, probably painted not very long before,
in which she is attired after the fashion of those days, and looks nearly as old as she would
now if she were living!

Now let us go back to the garden. The kitten has escaped, and Polly is wishing for something to do.

"Where's Dolly?" says grandmother. "Find her, and then gather some apples and plums, and have
a tea drinking."

The doll had been very ill all day; it was strange in grandmother to forget it. She had fallen
asleep just before dinner, and been put carefully in her bed; it would never do to wake her
so soon. And besides, a tea party was not amusing when there was no one to sit at the other
end of the table. This referred to Tom, Polly's dearest cousin, who had just left her after
a long visit; and she missed him sadly.

"And," says Polly, "I do not think I should care for it if he were here, if I could have nothing
but apples. I'm tired of them. I have eaten one of every kind in the garden to-day, even the
great yellow ones by the lower gate. I think they're disagreeable; but I left them till the
very last, and then I was afraid they would feel sorry to be left out. I think I will eat another,
though; and I will not have a party--it's a trouble. Which kind would you take, grandmother?"

"One of the very smallest," says the old lady, laughing; "but stop a moment. I have one I'll
give you;" and she took a beauty from her pocket, and threw it on the grass by Polly.

"That's the very prettiest apple I ever saw," says the child. "Where did you get it? Not off
our trees. 'Father gave it to you?' and where did he find it?"

Grandmother did not know.

After admiring her apple a little more, Polly eats it in a most deliberate manner, enjoying
every bite as if it were the first she had eaten that day, and when she has finished it, gives
a contented little sigh, and sits looking at the fine brown seeds which she holds in her hand.
Presently she says, earnestly,--

"Grandmother!"

"What now, Polly?"

"I wish I had that dear little apple's two brothers and two sisters, and I would put them in
the doll's chest until to-morrow; I wouldn't eat them to-day, you know."

"I will tell you what you can do," says grandmother. "Are those seeds in your hand? Go find
Dorothy, and ask her to give you the empty flower-pot from the high shelf at my window; and
then you can fill it with dark earth from one of the flower-beds, and plant them; then by and
by you will have a tree, and can have plenty of your apple's children."

That was a happy thought. And Polly puts the seeds carefully on a leaf, and runs to find Dorothy.
Now she comes back with a queer little Dutch china flower-pot, and sits down on the grass again,
and makes a hole in the soft brown earth with her finger, and drops the fine seeds in.

For days she watered them, and carried them to sunny places; but at last she grew very impatient,
and one morning, when she was all alone in the garden, very much provoked that they had not
made their appearance, took a twig and explored; and the first poke brought to light the little
seeds, as shiny and brown as when they left the apple. It was a great disappointment, and Polly
caught them up, and threw them as far away as she could, and with tears in her eyes ran in
to tell grandmother.

"Ah," said the dear old lady, "it was not time! Thou hast not learned thy lesson of waiting;
and no wonder, when there are few so hard, and thou art still so young."

Then she sent Polly back to the garden, and the pot was put in its place, again. And a week
or two after, as grandmother was just going to make room in the earth for a new plant, she
saw growing there a little green sprig, which was not a weed. She listened a moment, and heard
the child's voice outside.

"Polly, my dear, are you sure you scattered all the seeds of your pretty apple the day you
were so provoked at their not having begun to grow for you?"

The child reddened a little, and turned away.

"I don't know, grandmother. I think so; I wished to then."

How delighted she was when the old lady showed her the treasure, and how carefully it was watched
and tended! For one little seed had been buried deeper than the rest, and now in the sunshine
of grandmother's wide window it had come up. Every pleasant day it was placed somewhere in
the sun, and at night it was always carried to Polly's own room. Her dolls and other old play-house
friends, formerly much honored, and of great consequence, were quite neglected for "the apple
tree," as she always called the tiny thing with its few bits of leaves.

And now we must leave the Brentons' old stone house and the garden. All this happened in the
days of King Charles I., when there was a great war, and the country in a highly discordant
state. Polly's father was on the king's side, and one day he did something which was considered
particularly unpardonable by his enemies, and at night he came riding from Oxford in the greatest
hurry he had ever been in; and riding after him were some of Cromwell's men. It was bright
moonlight, and as he rode in the paved yard the great dogs in their kennels began to bark,
and that waked Polly's mother, in a terrible fright at hearing her husband's voice, and sure
something undesirable had happened.

Squire Brenton hurried in to tell her, in as few words as possible, what he had done, and that
he was followed, and had just time to say good by, and take another horse, and rush on to the
sea, where he hoped to find a fishing-boat, by means of which he could escape.

"And you," said he, "had better take Polly and one of the men, and ride to your cousin Matthew's;
for in their rage at my escape, they may mean to burn my house. I little thought a month ago,--when
he offered you 'a safe home,' and I laughed in his face, and said, 'Give your good wife the
same message; for she may not find your house so safe as mine by and by,'--that you would need
to accept so soon."

"But I cannot go there now," said Mistress Brenton; "for cousin Matthew is away with the Roundhead
army, and his wife and sister have gone to the north. I'll go with you. Listen: I heard one
of the maids say to-day that a ship sails to-morrow at daybreak from the bay by Dunner's with
a company of Puritans for Holland, on their way to one of the American colonies. We will go
for a time to our friends in Amsterdam, and be quite safe."

Anything was better than staying where he was; and Squire Brenton, bidding her hurry, went
to the stables with his tired horse, and waking one of his men whom he could trust, told him
why he was there, and to say, when the men came, that he was in Oxford yesterday, when they
had a letter, and that Mistress Brenton had gone north to some friends. He gave him some messages
for his brother, and then, sending him out to a field with the horse he had been riding, which
would certainly have betrayed him, he went back to the yard, trying to keep the two fresh horses
still, while he listened, fearing every moment to hear his pursuers coming down the road.

Presently out came Mistress Brenton, carrying some bundles of clothing, and a few little things
besides, and wrapped in a great riding cloak; and at her side walked Polly, very sleepy, and
looking wonderingly in the faces of the others, and asking all manner of childish questions.

Suddenly she ran back to the house, just as her father was going to lift her on his horse;
and when she came back, what do you think she had? Together in a little bag were her doll and
kitten, and one arm held tightly her little apple tree, wrapped in some garment of her own
which she had found lying near it.

And then they rode away. The poor child, after begging them to go to her uncle's, so she might
say good by to grandmother, fell asleep, holding fast her treasures all the while.

There was a faint glimmer of light over the sea as they neared the shore, and they saw anchored
at a little distance a small ship, and could see the men moving about her deck; for the wind
had risen. Mr. Brenton found a man whom he knew, in whose charge he left the horses, and then
a fisherman rowed them to the vessel.

The captain was nowhere to be seen, and the sailors paid no attention to them as they came
on deck in the chilly morning twilight; and they went immediately below, and hid themselves
in a dark corner, thinking they might have to go ashore if discovered, and that it was best
to keep out of sight until it was too late to turn back. In the darkness they fell asleep.
This may seem very strange; but remembering the long ride, and the fright they had been in,
and that now they felt safe, we can hardly wonder. At any rate, it was the middle of the afternoon
before Colonel Brenton--I think I have never given him his title before--made his appearance
on deck, to the great astonishment of the captain and all the other people, who knew him more
or less. He told the captain what had happened, saying at the end he would pay him double the
usual passage money to Holland, where he meant to stay for a while; and at this the rough man
really turned pale.

"Holland, Holland!" said he; "do you not see we're going down the Channel? We are bound direct
for America."

The story says that Colonel Brenton was almost beside himself, and offered large sums of money
to be taken back, or to France; but the captain would not consent, saying that they had made
good progress, and it was late in the year. The ship would come back in the spring, and he
must content himself.

Those of the ship's company who knew our friends had great wonderings at their having turned
Puritans, until they knew the true state of affairs. Must not it have been dreadful news to
Mistress Brenton, and was it not really a dreary prospect--a dreary journey in that frail ship,
and at the end a cold, forlorn country? and all the stories of the Indians' cruelties to the
settlers came to her mind. They could not, in all probability, return for many months. No one
whom she cared particularly for would be there to welcome them. Polly did not take it very
much to heart, though she cried a little because she was not to go to Holland, which she had
heard so much of from her grandmother and Dorothy. It was a great many days before they gave
up their hope of falling in with some vessel to which they might be transferred; and the first
two weeks were sunshiny and pleasant, with a good wind. But soon it grew bleaker and colder,
and they suffered greatly. All through the pleasant days, Polly had been having a very enjoyable
time. There were several children on board, and they had games around the deck and in the cabin.

It was delightful to have the kitten, who had a cord tied around her neck; and when she was
not in Polly's arms, she was generally anchored for safety in the cabin. Every day she had
part of her little mistress's dinner; and though she missed the garden, and the dead leaves
that nestled about the walks, and made such nice playthings, and the sedate old family cat,
her mother, and her mother's numerous poor relations who lived in the stables, she was by no
means unhappy. And the doll's expression was as complacent as ever, though she had worn one
gown an astonishing length of time. But if you could have seen the care the little tree received!
It was carefully wrapped in the same little cloak Polly put round it the night they left home,
and only on the warmest days it was taken on deck to have the sunshine; and every day it had
part of Polly's small allowance of water; and when the kitten had had its share, there would
often be very little left.

The weary days went slowly by. The ship was slow at the best, and the winds were contrary.
The provisions grew less and less, and the water was almost exhausted. Two people--a man, and
a child Polly had grown very fond of--died, and were buried in the sea. The sky was cold and
gray, and it snowed and rained, and every one looked sad and disheartened. It was terribly
desolate. Polly could not often go on deck, for the frozen spray and rain made it very slippery
and dangerous there; and her mother told story after story, and did her best to shorten the
longest December days she had ever known. And soon there came a terrible bereavement. One night
there was a great storm, and the dearly-beloved kitten, frightened to death by the things rolling
about, and the pitching of the ship, broke the cord and rushed out in the darkness, and never
was seen any more. I think a little cat has never been so mourned since the world began. That
night, the Dutch flower-pot, with its leafless twig, went rolling about the cabin floor, and
half the earth was scattered in the folds of its wrappings, and carefully replaced next morning.

But at last the voyage was ended; they saw land, and finally came close to it and went ashore,
Polly with her dear doll and something else rolled up in a little gray cloak. The ship was
to stay until spring; and there seemed no hope of getting back to England until then. It was
hard to decide what to do; but at last Colonel Brenton heard of some men whom he had known,
who had been made prisoners in some of the battles in the north of England and sent to the
Massachusetts colony by Cromwell, who had feared to imprison them. They had been sent to the
settlement in York.

So the Brentons joined a party going there, or to places beyond. It was the last of January
that they came to York, and were warmly welcomed at the great garrison, where they lived till
spring. Polly found a very nice child to play with. There had been a good harvest, and the
Indians were uncommonly peaceable. They had great log fires in the wide fireplace in the east
room; and for a winter in those times, it was very comfortable. The flower-pot was deposited
in a chink of the great chimney. Polly had insisted upon bringing it with her; and though "the
tree" at that time was a slender little straight stick, she had firm faith that spring time
would give it leaves again. And strange to say, she was not disappointed; for all the exposure
had not destroyed it. The first of June came, and they were still living in the garrison-house,
looking every day for a messenger to tell them the ship was ready to go back. Some people on
their way to one of the eastern settlements, early in April, had told them there were no signs
of her sailing; and since then they had heard nothing. How dismayed they were, early in June,
to find the ship had sailed nearly two months before! It seemed as if everything was against
them; and they could live no longer in the garrison. So the Brentons had a little log house
near by, and "the squire" worked every day in the great field down towards the river. It must
have been such a strange life for them! and I suppose their thoughts often went back to the
dear English home. When Mistress Brenton looked from the small window in her log house out
over half-cleared fields, and saw the garrison-house, and her husband working among the hills
of corn with his gun close by, every now and then looking anxiously about him, she would remember
the wide window, with its cushioned seat, in her own room at home, and the sunny garden, with
the flowers and bees, and the maids and men singing and chattering in the distance, and the
dear voice of grandmother singing the old church hymns. It was a great change; but days much
more forlorn than these were yet to come.

The Indians came around the settlement in large numbers, and no one dared to be out alone.
At night the people waked in fear at the slightest noise; and in the daytime it was after the
same fashion. News came of whole settlements having been murdered or made captives, and some
of their own neighbors disappeared finally; and then the suspense was terrible. At last, one
day Mrs. Brenton had gone up to the garrison to see one of the women, who was ill, and most
of the men were in the field. Polly went with her mother; but the women were talking over something
about the king and Parliament, which she found very uninteresting, and soon she unfastened
the great outer door, and unwisely ran out with her doll in her arms, and went down to the
field to see the men at work. But on her way, she bethought herself of a charming stump she
had seen out at one side of the path, and went to visit it. None of the men happened to see
her. She talked to the doll, and made a throne for her of the soft moss growing around her,
and had been playing there some time, when suddenly she heard shouts, and thought they must
be killing a snake, and looked up to see all the men running up the hill to the garrison, with
a great many Indians chasing them; and she heard a gun fired, and saw one of the men who had
petted and been very kind to her, and told her stories, fall to the ground. Ah, how frightened
she was!

The doll was snatched from her throne, and the poor little girl ran towards the garrison, too,
right towards the Indians. It was weary work running over the rough ground,--and the tall grass
was not much better,--and then on, up the hill. By this time the men had succeeded in getting
in; and the wicked-looking Indians, after a yell of disappointment, turned to go back to the
one who lay dead on the hill-side, and to escape the bullets which would come in a moment from
the loopholes. O, if she could only get by them!

Up the hill she hurried as fast as the poor tired little feet could carry her, hugging the
doll, almost breathless, with the great tears falling very fast, and still crying, "Wait, father!"

I am glad I know one kind thing the Indians of those days did. As they turned, they saw her
coming, and some hurried forward a little to seize her; and it would have been so easy. But
one spoke, and they all stopped, and laughed, and shouted, and the child got safely in.

Then the Indians went to the Brentons' house, and some others, and burned them; but luckily
the apple tree was at the play-house, by a large rock, at a little distance, and the wind was
not in that direction; and after they disappeared, it was brought up to the fort, safe and sound.

It soon grew tall and strong, and in a little while was entirely too large for its pot; and
finally Polly was forced to put it in the ground. It was hard to do it; for she had cared for
it, and loved it so long, and this was giving it up, in a measure. And I think if she had understood
that now it must be left behind, it would have been almost impossible to have persuaded her.
Her father comforted her by telling her he could get quantities of the apples not very far
from home, and she could plant more seeds as soon as she liked, or, far better than that, he
would graft a tree.

In September, news came that a ship was going to the east coast of England; and they were all
heartily glad, in spite of the long, dangerous voyage; and leaving the York friends, who had
been so kind, and whom they would probably never see any more, Polly gave the little tree to
a Masterson child, her great friend, who promised to wrap it in straw for winter, and to be
very kind to it and fond of it. And I think she must have been faithful to her charge. Mistress
Brenton laid some of the leaves in the little book she had had in her pocket that night, almost
a year ago, when they left home. So they went to Boston, and sailed for the old country.

I know nothing more of them; but we will hope their voyage was a short and easy one, and that
they reached home on a pleasant, sunny day, and grandmother was there, and Dorothy, and all
the people, and Polly had stories to tell as wonderful as Dorothy's, and all true, and that
they were all happy forever after.

A while ago I stood on the hill with an old farmer, eating one of a pocketful of apples he
had given me, and said how very nice it was, and that I had never seen any like it.

"There are none of my apples sell half so well," said he. "I've forty young trees that have
been bearing a few years; and over to the right you see some old ones. Mine were grafted from
those and my father took his grafts from an old tree I'd like to show you;" and as we walked
towards it, he said, "It looks, and I guess it is, as old as any around here. My father always
said it was brought from England in a flower-pot by some of the first settlers. Perhaps you
have heard the story. It's very shaky. The high winds last fall were pretty hard on it. It
will never bear again, I am afraid. I set a good deal by the old thing. The very first thing
I can remember is my father's lifting me up to one of the lower limbs, and I was frightened
and cried. I believe I think more of that tree than of anything on my farm. My wife always
laughs at me about it. Well, it has lasted my time. I'm old and shaky, too; and I suppose my
sons won't miss this much, and will like the young orchard best."

"And you and I like your orchard's grandmother," said I.

                                                    S. O. J.

ROUGH.

He was a donkey, and we called him Rough. He belonged to Gerald and me. We didn't keep him
for his useful qualities, and we certainly didn't keep him for his moral qualities; and I don't
know what we did keep him for, unless, for the best reason in the world, that we loved him.

He was always getting us into scrapes, the most renowned of which was one Rough's enemies were
fond of alluding to.

We were bidden to a christening one fair spring morning; and we not only accepted the invitation,
but promised to bring apple-blossoms, to fill the font and make the church look gay. We had
an old apple orchard, that bore beautiful blossoms, but worthless fruit; and of these blossoms
we had leave to pick as many as we chose.

So we filled the donkey-cart with them, and set forth for the christening, which was to be
at a little church about a mile or more distant from our farm. Rough's enemies will tell how
we arrived when the christening was all over, and our apple blossoms faded.

We were never so happy as when we had a whole leisure afternoon to go off with Rough in the
donkey-cart, and our little sister Daisy by Gerald's side, on the board that served as seat,
and I lying on my back on the bottom of the cart, with my heels dangling out of it. So I would
lie for hours, whistling and looking up at the drifting clouds, or with my hat over my eyes
to keep out the sun.

One afternoon, early in March, when the roads were almost knee deep in mud, and the last of
the melting snow made a running stream on either side of the road, we were slowly travelling
along after the manner I have described. We were going to take a longing look at the skating
pond, two miles from our farm. We were forbidden to try the dangerous ice, but meant only to
look upon the scene of our winter's delight.

"Some one's in the pond!" cried Daisy.

"How do ye know?" said I, not removing my hat from my face.

You see Daisy was only six years old, and I hadn't much faith in her observation.

"Cos I sees 'em with my own eyes."

I jumped up and looked. It was only a hat I saw. Gerald meanwhile said nothing, but had pulled
up Rough (who not only stopped, but lay down in the mud), and looked. I watched him, to see
what he thought, or proposed to do.

People had a way of trusting to Gerald's judgment rather than their own, and were generally
better off for it.

"It is some one in the pond," said Gerald; and then followed a short discussion as to whether
we should leave Daisy alone to the mercies of Rough, which resulted in our leaving Rough, and
taking Daisy along with us down to the pond.

We could see a boy, apparently about Gerald's age, swimming and striving to keep up, and catching
at the ice, which broke as he clung to it. He swam feebly, as if benumbed and wearied.

"Keep a brave heart!" roared Gerald; "we'll save you!" and then began to take off his boots
and coat. The boy sank--under the ice, this time. We could see it bobbing up and down as he
swam beneath it.

"Stay here till I call you," said Gerald to me, as he stepped from the shore on to the ice,
and walked out towards where the swimmer was hidden by the ice. I stood breathless, with my
eye on Gerald.

The ice began to crack under him. He lay down on his stomach, and pulled himself forward with
his hands. Up came the swimmer not far from him.

"Keep up! Gerald will save you!" cried Daisy.

The poor fellow cast one despairing look at Gerald, and sank again. Gerald had gone as far
as was practicable on the ice. I could hear it cracking all over, and see the white cracks
darting suddenly over ice that had looked safe.

Up came the boy again.

"Keep up! keep up!" cried Daisy, in an excited treble. "Gerald will save you!"

But the boy could hear nothing. He had his eyes closed, and seemed to have fainted. Gerald
reached out, and clutched him by the arm. How the ice cracked all about him! My heart was in
my mouth; I thought he was in. I began to take my coat off.

"A scarf!" said Gerald, speaking for the first time.

I took off my own, and picked up Gerald's from the ground, and tied them firmly together. I
saw that they were too short. Daisy offered hers. I took it, with an inward fear, if the child
should catch cold; it seemed paltry to think of it at such a moment. I stepped out on the ice,
and went a few steps, when Gerald cried,--

"Stop!"

I obeyed like a soldier.

"Throw it now!"

I threw the long string of scarfs. Gerald dexterously caught it, and upholding the poor boy
with one hand, with the other passed the string under his arms, and tied the ends of it to
his own arm. Then he paused a moment before attempting the hazardous work of coming ashore,
and looked at me speculatively. I knew what he meant. There was a shadow of trouble in his
face that had nothing to do with his own danger. He was weighing the possibility of his falling
in, and my doing the same in trying to save him, and Daisy alone on the shore. I gave a cheering
"Go ahead, old fellow!" and he began to push himself back again, dragging his senseless burden
after him by the scarf tied to his arm.

Crack! crack! crack! went the ice all about him, and little tides of water flooded it. At last
it seemed a little firmer. Gerald rose to his feet, and dragging the boy still in the water
after him, began to walk slowly towards the shore, not seeming to notice how the sharp edges
of the ice cut the face and forehead of the poor half-drowned boy.

Again the ice began to crack and undulate. Gerald stood still for a moment, and the piece on
which he stood broke away from the rest, and began to float out. He jumped to the next, which
broke, and so to the next, and the next, till he neared the shore. Then he paused a moment,
and looked at me.

"Go ashore!" he roared like a sea captain.

Then I noticed that I stood on a detached piece of ice, but nearer land than Gerald. I found
no difficulty in gaining the shore.

"Now stand firm and give a hand!" said Gerald.

I grasped his hand, and he jumped ashore, and together we lifted the boy out of the water.
Daisy burst into tears, crying,--

"O, Gerald, Gerald, I thought you'd be drowned!"

Gerald very gently put her clinging arms away from him, saying, firmly,--

"Don't cry, Daisy. We have our hands full with this poor fellow."

I got the skates off the "poor fellow," and gave them to Daisy to hold. She, brave little woman,
gulped down her tears, and only gave vent to her emotion, now and then, by a little suppressed
sob. Gerald began beating the hands and breathing into the mouth and nostrils of the seeming
lifeless form before us.

"Is he dead, Gery?" said I.

"No!" said Gerald, fiercely. It was evident that he wouldn't believe he had gone through so
much trouble to bring a dead man ashore. "Look for his handkerchief, and see if there's a mark
on it."

I fished a wet rag out of the wet trousers pocket, and found in one corner of it the name "Stevens."

"There's a farmer of that name two miles farther on. I don't know any one else of that name.
Must be his son. We'll take him home;" and he began wrapping his coat about the poor boy; but
I insisted on mine being used for the purpose, as Gerald was half wet, and his teeth were already
chattering. "We must get him off this wet ground as soon as possible," said Gerald; and together
we lifted him, and slowly and laboriously bore him to the donkey-cart in the road.

By this time Gerald had only strength enough to hold the reins, and we set out forthwith for
the Stevens farm, I, with what help Daisy could give, trying to bring some show of life back
to the stranger. Perhaps the jolting of the cart helped,--I don't know,--but by and by he began
to revive, and at last we propped him up in one corner of the cart, with his head supported
by Daisy's knee.

I shall not soon forget how long the road seemed, and how I got out and walked in deep mud,
and how, when poor Rough seemed straining every muscle to make the little cart move at all,
Gerald insisted on getting out, too, and leading Rough; how the sun set as we were wading through
a long road, where willow trees grew thick on either side, and Daisy said, "See; all the little
pussies are out!" how, at last, we reached the Stevens farm, and restored the half-drowned
boy to his parents. I remember, too, how they were so utterly absorbed, very naturally, in
the welfare of their boy, as to forget all about us, and offer us no quicker means of return
home than our donkey-cart.

They came to call on us the next day, and to thank us, and specially Gerald, with tears of
gratitude. And Gerald was a hero in the village from that day forth.

I remember well how dark it grew as we waded slowly and silently home, and how poor little
Rough did his very best, and never stopped once.

I think he understood the importance of the occasion; but those who were not Rough's friends,
believe it was a recollection, and expectation of supper, that made him acquit himself so honorably.

As we neared our home, we saw a tall figure looming up in the dark, and soon, by the voice,
we knew it was Michael, one of the farm hands, sent to seek us.

"Bluder an nouns," he exclaimed, "it is you, Mister Gery! An' yer muther, poor leddy, destroyed
wid the fright. An' kapin' the chilt out to this hair. Hadn't ye moor sense?"

We explained briefly; and Daisy begged to be carried, as the cart was all wet.

With many Irish expressions of sympathy, Michael took the child in his arms; and so we arrived
at home, and found father and mother half distracted with anxiety, and the farm hands sent
in all directions to look for us. We were at once, all three of us, put to bed, and made to
drink hot lemonade, and have hot stones at our feet, and not till then tell all our experiences,
which were listened to eagerly.

Daisy escaped unhurt, I with a slight cold, but Gerald and poor little Rough were the ones
who suffered. Gerald had a severe attack of pneumonia, from which we had much ado to bring
him back to health, and Rough was ill. They brought us the news from the stable on the next
morning. We couldn't tell what was the matter; perhaps he had strained himself, perhaps had
caught cold. We could not tell, nor could the veterinary surgeon we brought to see him. Poor
Rough lay ill for weeks, and one bright spring morning he died.

They told us early in the morning, before we were out of bed, how, an hour ago, Rough had died.

THE MUSIC LESSON.

    Touch the keys lightly,
      Nellie, my dear:
    The noise makes Johnnie
      Impatient, I fear.

    He looks very cross,
      I am sorry to see--
    Not looking at all
      As a brother should be.

    Whatever you're doing,
      Bear this always in mind:
    In all little things
      Be both thoughtful and kind.

    He went to the windows of those who slept,
    And over each pane like a fairy crept:
    Wherever he breathed, wherever he stept,
          By the light of the moon were seen
    Most beautiful things: there were flowers and trees;
    There were bevies of birds and swarms of bees;
    There were cities with temples and towers, and these
          All pictured in silver sheen!

MY PICTURE.

    I have a little picture;
      Perchance you have one too.
    Mine is not set in frame of gold;
      'Tis first a bit of blue,
    And then a background of dark hills--
      A river just below,
    Along whose broad, green meadow banks
      The wreathing elm trees grow.

    Upon an overhanging ridge
      A little farm-house stands,
    Whose owner, like the man of old,
      Has builded "on the sands;"
    And yet, defying storms and wind,
      It stands there all alone,
    And brightens up the landscape
      With a beauty of its own.

    Fairy-like my picture changes
      As the seasons come and go.
    Now it glows 'neath summer's kisses;
      Now it sleeps 'mid winter's snow.
    I can see the breath of spring-time
      In the river's deeper blue,
    And autumn seems to crown it
      With her very brightest hue.

    Ah. I'd not exchange my picture
      For the choicest gem of art;
    Yet I must not claim it wholly;
      It is only mine in part;
    For 'tis one of nature's sketches--
      A waif from that Great Hand
    Which hath filled our earth with models
      Of the beautiful and grand.

WHY?

    Why are the blossoms
      Such different hues?
    And the waves of the sea
      Such a number of blues?
    So many soft greens
      Flit over the trees?
    And little gray shadows
      Fly out on the breeze?

    Why are the insects
      So wondrously fair;
    Illumining grasses
      And painting the air?
    You dear little shells,
      O, why do you shine?
    And feathery sea-weed
      Grow fragile and fine?

    Why are the meadows
      Such gardens of grace,
    With infinite beauty
      In definite space?
    Each separate grass
      A world of delight?
    O, food for the cattle,
      Why are you so bright?

    Why are our faces
      Such lovable things,
    With lips made for kisses,
      And laughter that sings?
    With eyes full of love,
      That sparkle and gleam,
    Through beautiful colors,
      That change like a dream?

    Think for a moment--
      Look up to the sky;
    Question your heart; it
      Will answer the Why!
    Bright is the glitter
      Of beauty unfurled--
    Boundless the love that
      Has fashioned the world!

BIRDS.

The wisdom of God is seen in every part of creation, and especially in the different kinds
of birds. The beauty displayed in their graceful forms and varied colors strikes every beholder,
while the adaptation of their organs for the purposes of flight, their peculiar habits and
modes of living, are a constant source of admiration to the student of nature.

Almost everything about the shape of a bird fits it for moving rapidly in the air, and all
parts of its body are arranged so as to give it lightness along with strength. The soft and
delicate plumage of birds protects them from cold or moisture; their wings, though so delicate,
are furnished with muscles of such power as to strike the air with great force, whilst their
tails act like the rudder of a ship, so that they can direct their course at pleasure with
the utmost ease.

The internal structure of a bird also is such as to help it to sustain itself in, and to fly
quickly through, the air. Its lungs are pierced with large holes, which allow air to pass into
cavities in the breast, and even into the interior of the bones. It is thus not only rendered
buoyant, but is enabled to breathe even while in rapid motion. Two sparrows, it is said, require
as much air to maintain their breathing properly as a guinea pig.

In many other ways the skill and goodness of God are seen in the "fowl of the air." Their necks
and beaks are long, and very movable, so that they may readily pick up food and other objects
from the ground. The muscles of their toes are so arranged that the simple weight of the body
closes them, and they are able, in consequence, to sit on a perch a long time without fatigue.
Even in a violent wind a bird easily retains its hold of the branch or twig on which it is
sitting. Their bills are of almost all forms: in some kinds they are straight; in others curved,
sometimes upwards and sometimes downwards; in others they are flat; in some they are in the
form of a cone, wedge-shaped, or hooked. The bill enables a bird to take hold of its food,
to strip or divide it. It is useful also in carrying materials for its nest, or food to its
young; and in the birds of prey, such as the owl, the hawk, the falcon, eagle, etc., the beak
is a formidable weapon of attack.

The nostrils of birds are usually of an oval form, and are placed near the base of the beak.
Their eyes are so constructed that they can see near and distant objects equally well, and
their sight is very acute. The sparrow-hawk discerns the small birds which are its prey at
an incredible distance. No tribe of birds possesses an outward ear, except those which seek
their food by night; these have one in the form of a thin, leathery piece of flesh. The inside
ear, however, is very large, and their hearing is very quick.

Another admirable feature in the structure of birds consists in their feathers. These are well
adapted for security, warmth, and freedom of motion. The larger feathers of the body are placed
over each other like the slates on the roof of a house, so that water is permitted to run off,
and cold is kept out. The down, which is placed under the feathers, is a further protection
against the cold; and hence it is most abundant in those species that are found in northern
climates. The feathery covering of birds forms their peculiar beauty: on this, in the warm
climates, Nature bestows her most delicate and brightest colors.

Another point which sets forth the resources of Infinite Wisdom is the structure and uses of
the wings of birds. The size of the wings is not always in proportion to the bulk of their
bodies, but is accommodated to their habits of living. Accordingly, birds of prey, swallows,
and such birds as are intended to hover long in the air, have much longer wings, in proportion
to their size, than hens, ducks, quails, etc. In some, such as the ostrich, the cassiowary,
and the penguin, the largest quill-feathers of the wing are entirely wanting.

Then, again, how varied is the flight of birds! The falcon soars above the clouds, and remains
in the air for many hours without any sign of exertion. The swallow, the lark, and other species,
sail long distances with little effort. Others, like the sparrow and the humming-bird, have
a fluttering flight. Some, as the owl, fly without any noise; and some, like the partridge,
with a loud whir.

                        "Around the head
    Of wandering swain the white-winged plover wheels
    Her sounding flight, and then directly on
    In long excursion skims the level lawn,
    To tempt him from her nest."

How graceful are the motions of the hawk, sweeping higher and higher in circles, as he surveys
far and wide the expanse of fields and meadows below, in which he hopes to espy his prey. Our
paper would be too long were we to say even a little about the roosting, the swimming, or running,
the migration, the habits and instincts, the varied notes and pleasant songs, of the endless
species of birds.

All these subjects are well worthy of being carefully studied; for they all show the design
of their Creator. The extraordinary creature represented in the engraving is the "Apteryx,"
or "wingless bird" of New Zealand. It was not known to European naturalists till of late years,
and for a long time the accounts which the natives of New Zealand gave of it were discredited.
A specimen of it, preserved in brine, was, however, brought to this country, and a full description
of the bird given.

The kirvi-kirvi, as the New Zealanders call it, stands about two feet high. Its wings are so
small that they can scarcely be called wings, and are not easy to find under the general plumage
of the body. Its nostrils, strange to say, are at the tip of the beak. The toes are strong,
and well adapted for digging, the hind one being a thick, horny spur. To add to the singularity
of this creature, it has no tail whatever. The kirvi-kirvi conceals itself among the extensive
beds of fern which abound in the middle island of New Zealand, and it makes a nest of fern
for its eggs in deep holes, which it hollows out of the ground. It feeds on insects, and particularly
worms, which it disturbs by stamping on the ground, and seizes the instant they make their
appearance. Night is the season when it is most active; and the natives hunt it by torchlight.
When pursued, it elevates its head, like an ostrich, and runs with great swiftness. It defends
itself, when overtaken, with much spirit, inflicting dangerous blows with its strong spur-armed
feet.

In this instance, as in all others, God has wisely adapted the very shape and limbs of the
creature to the habits by which it was intended to be distinguished.

                                                    F. F. E.

KINDNESS REWARDED.

When Agrippa was in a private station, he was accused, by one of his servants, of having spoken
injuriously of Tiberius, and was condemned by that emperor to be exposed in chains before the
palace gate. The weather was very hot, and Agrippa became excessively thirsty. Seeing Thaumastus,
a servant of Caligula, pass by him with a pitcher of water, he called to him, and entreated
leave to drink. The servant presented the pitcher with much courtesy; and Agrippa, having allayed
his thirst, said to him,--

"Assure thyself, Thaumastus, that if I get out of this captivity, I will one day pay thee well
for this draught of water."

Tiberius dying, his successor, Caligula, soon after not only set Agrippa at liberty, but made
him king of Judea. In this high situation Agrippa was not unmindful of the glass of water given
to him when a captive.

He immediately sent for Thaumastus, and made him controller of his household.

A DREAM OF SUMMER.

    West wind and sunshine
      Braided together,
    What is the one sign
      But pleasant weather?

    Birds in the cherry-trees,
      Bees in the clover;
    Who half so gay as these
      All the world over?

    Violets among the grass,
      Roses regretting
    How soon the summer 'll pass,--
      Next year forgetting.

    Buds sighing in their sleep,
      "Summer, pray grant us
    Youth, that its bloom will keep
      Fragrance to haunt us!"

    Rivulets that shine and sing,
      Sunbeams abetting,--
    No more remembering
      Their frozen fretting.

    Sweet music in the wind,
      Sun in the showers;
    All these we're sure to find
      In summer hours.

                         MARY N. PRESCOTT.

EVERY CLOUD HAS A SILVER LINING.

"Please, Mr. Mate has that cloud a silver lining?"

The question was asked by little Kate Vale, the daughter of an emigrant, who, with her mother,
was following her father, who had gone before to New York. Katie was a quiet, gentle little
child, who gave trouble to no one. She had borne the suffering of seasickness at the beginning
of the voyage so patiently, and now took the rough sea-fare so thankfully, that she had made
a fast friend of Tom Bolton, the mate. Bolton had a warm, kindly heart, and one of the children
whom he had left in England was just the age of Katie; this inclined him all the more to show
her kindness. Katie often had a piece of Bolton's sea-biscuit; he told her tales which he called
"long yarns," and sometimes in rough weather he would wrap his thick jacket around her, to
keep the chill from her thinly-clad form. Katie was not at all afraid of Bolton, or "Mr. Mate,"
as she called him, and she took hold of his hard brown hand as she asked the question,--

"Has that cloud a silver lining?"

Bolton glanced up at a very black, lowering cloud, which seemed to blot the sun quite out of
that part of the sky.

"Why do you ask me, Kate?" said the sailor.

"Because mother often says that every cloud has a silver lining, and that one looks as if it
had none."

Tom Bolton gave a short laugh.

"None that we can see," he replied; "for the cloud is right atween us and the sun. If we could
look at the upper part, where the bright beams fall, we should see yon black cloud like a great
mass of silvery mother-o'-pearl, just like those that you yesterday called shining mountains
of snow."

Katie turned round, and raising her eyes, watched for some minutes the gloomy cloud. It was
slowly moving towards the west, and as it did so, the sun behind it began to edge all its dark
outline with brightness.

"See, see!" exclaimed Katie; "it is turning out the edge of its silver lining. If I were up
there in the sky, I suppose that all would look beautiful then. But I don't know why mother
should take comfort from talking of the clouds and their linings."

The mother, Mrs. Vale, who was standing near, leaning against the bulwarks, heard the last
words of her child, and made reply,--

"Because we have many clouds of sorrow here to darken our lives, and our hearts would often
fail us but for the thought, 'There is a bright side to every trial sent to the humble believer.'"

And Mrs. Vale repeated the beautiful lines,--

    "Yon clouds, a mass of sable shade
      To mortals gazing from below,
    By angels from above surveyed,
      With universal brightness glow."

Katie did not quite understand the verse, but she knew how patiently and meekly her mother
had borne sudden poverty, the sale of her goods, and the bitter parting from her beloved husband.
Bolton also had been struck by the pious courage of one who had had a large share of earthly
trials.

"Your clouds at least seem to be edged with silver," he observed, with a smile; and as he spoke,
the glorious beams of the sun burst from behind the black mass of cloud, making widening streams
of light up the sky, which, as Katie remarked, looked like paths up to heaven.

The vessel arrived at New York, after rather a rough voyage, and Mrs. Vale, to her great delight,
found her husband ready at the port to receive her. He brought her good tidings also. A fortnight
before her landing he had procured a good situation, and he was now able to take her and their
child to a comfortable home. Past sorrows now seemed to be almost forgotten.

Bolton, who, during a trying voyage, had shown much kindness to Mrs. Vale as well as to Katie,
was invited during his stay at New York to make their house his home. He had much business
to do as long as he remained in the great city, so saw little of the Vales except in the evenings,
when he shared their cheerful supper, and then knelt down with them at family prayers. The
mate learned much of the peace and happiness which piety brings while he dwelt under the emigrant's
roof.

But ere long the day arrived when Bolton's vessel, the Albion, was to start for England. She
was to weigh anchor at one o'clock, and at midday the mate bade good by to his emigrant friends.

"A pleasant journey to you, and a speedy return; we'll be glad to see you back here," said
Henry Vale, as he shook the mate by the hand.

Bolton's journey was to be much shorter, and his return much more speedy than he wished, or
his friends expected. He was hastening down to the pier to join his vessel, when he saw hanging
up in a shop window a curious basket, made of some of the various nuts of the country prettily
strung together.

"That's just the thing to take my Mary's fancy," said the mate to himself. "I've a present
for every one at home but for her; it won't take two minutes to buy that basket."

Great events often hang upon very small hooks. If Bolton had not turned back to buy the basket,
he would not have been passing a house on which masons were working at the very moment when
a ladder, carelessly placed against it, happened to fall with a crash. The ladder struck Bolton,
and he fell on the pavement so much stunned by the shock, that he had to be carried in a senseless
state into the shop of an apothecary.

Happily no bones were broken, but it was nearly an hour before the mate recovered the use of
his senses. He then opened his eyes, raised his head, and stared wildly around him, as if wondering
to find himself in a strange place, and trying to think how he came to be there. Bolton pressed
his aching forehead, seeking to recall to his memory what had happened, for he felt like one
in a dream. Soon his glance fell on the clock in the apothecary's shop, and at the same instant
the clock struck one! Bolton started to his feet, as if the chime of the little bell had been
the roar of a cannon.

"The Albion sails at one!" cried the mate; and without so much as stopping to look for his
oilskin cap, with bandaged brow and bareheaded, Bolton rushed forth into the street, and, dizzy
as he felt, staggered on towards the pier from which the vessel was to sail.

It was not to be expected that the sailor's course should be a very straight one, or that with
all his haste he should manage to make good speed. The streets of New York seemed to be more
full of traffic than usual, and twice the mate narrowly escaped being knocked down again by
some vehicle rapidly driven along the road. At last, breathless and faint, and scarcely able
to keep his feet, poor Bolton arrived at the wharf to which his ship had been moored but an
hour before. But the Albion was there no longer--the vessel had started without the mate--he
could see her white sails in the distance; she was already on her way back to Old England,
and she had left him behind!

This was a greater shock to poor Bolton than the blow from the falling ladder had been. He
stood for several minutes gazing after the ship with a look of despair, then slowly the sailor
returned to the house of the Vales.

"Nothing more unlucky could possibly have happened," muttered the mate to himself. "Here's
a pretty scrape that I shall get into with my employers; the mate of their vessel absent just
at the time when he ought to have been at his post! Then I've nothing with me--nothing, save
the clothes that I stand in! All my luggage is now on the waves, and a precious long time it
will be before I shall see it again. But I don't care so much for the luggage; what I can't
bear to think of is my wife and my children looking out eagerly for the arrival of the good
ship Albion, and then, when she reaches port, finding that no Tom Bolton is in her! I wish
that that stupid basket had been at the bottom of the sea before ever I set eyes on it!"

Pale, haggard, and looking--as he was--greatly troubled, Bolton entered the house of the Vales,
which he so lately had quitted. The family were just finishing their dinner; and not a little
astonished were they to see one whom they had believed to be on the wide sea.

"Here I am again, like a bad half-penny," said the sailor; and sitting down wearily on a chair
which Katie placed for him directly, Bolton gave a short account of what he called the most
unlucky mischance that had ever happened to him in the course of his life.

The Vales felt much for his trouble, and begged him to remain with them until he could get
a passage in some other vessel bound for England.

"And don't take your accident so much to heart," softly whispered little Katie; "you know mother's
favorite proverb--'Every cloud has a silver lining.'"

"Sometimes, even in this life, we can see the silver edge round the border," observed Mrs. Vale.

Bolton had too brave a heart and too sensible a mind to give way long to fretting, though he
did not see how so black a cloud as that which hung over his sky could possibly have anything
to brighten its gloom. He tried to make the best of that which he could not prevent, and retired
to rest that night with a tolerably cheerful face, though with a violent headache, and a heartache
which troubled him more.

Bolton slept very little that night, nor indeed did any one else in the house; for with the
close of day there came on a violent storm which raged fiercely until the morning. Katie trembled
in her little cot to hear how the gale roared and shrieked in the chimneys, and rattled the
window-frames, and threatened to burst open the doors. The child raised her head from the pillow,
and thanked the Lord that her sailor friend was not tossing then on the waves.

But far more thankful was Katie when tidings reached New York of what the storm had done on
that terrible night. Bolton was sitting at breakfast with his friends on the third day after
the tempest, when Vale, who was reading the newspaper, turned to the part headed "Shipping
Intelligence."

"Any news?" inquired Tom Bolton, struck by the expression on the face of his friend.

Instead of replying, Vale exclaimed, "How little we can tell in this life what is really for
our evil or our good! You called that accident which prevented your sailing in the Albion an
'unlucky mischance.'"

"Of course I did. My wife and children are impatient to see me--"

"Had you sailed in that ship," interrupted Vale, "they would never have seen you again. The
Albion went down in that storm!"

What was the regret of Tom Bolton on hearing of the disaster, and what was his thankfulness
for his own preservation, I leave the reader to guess. Often in after days did the little American
basket remind him in his own home of what others might have called the chance that led him
to turn back on his way to the ship, and so caused the accident which vexed him so much at
the time.

GOOD-HUMOR.

    I am a first-rate fairy--
      "Good-Humor" is my name;
    I use my wand where'er I go,
      And make the rough ways plain;

    And make the ugly faces shine,
      The shrillest voices sweet,
    The coarsest ore a golden mine,
      The poorest lives complete.

BOOKS AND READING.

I really am in doubt whether or not the young folks ought to be congratulated in consequence
of the great number of juvenile books which are being placed before them about this time. An
excellent book is certainly excellent company; but there is a limit to all things; and so we
may have too many books, taking it for granted that all are good ones.

You all know, that, as a general rule, people in America read too much, and think too little.
Reading is a benefit to us only when it leads to reflection. It is useless when it leaves no
lasting impression on the mind; it is worse than useless if the lesson it conveys be not a
really good one.

Suppose you sit down to a well-furnished table at a hotel to eat your dinner. The waiter hands
you a bill of fare, upon which is printed a long list of good and wholesome dishes, and then
quietly waits until you order what you wish. You are not expected to eat of every one, however
attractive they may be, but rather to select what you like best,--enough to make a modest meal,--and
let that suffice.

But the selection is not all. If you expect to gain health and strength by your dinner, you
must eat it in a proper manner; that is, slowly. Otherwise nature's work will be imperfectly
done, and your food become a source of bodily harm, instead of a benefit.

Now, it is precisely so with the food of the mind, which comes to you through books. You are
not expected to read everything which comes within your reach. You should rather select the
best, and, having done so, read them slowly and carefully. You may read too much as well as
eat too much; and while the one will injure your body, the other will as certainly harm your mind.

One of the worst evils which too much reading leads to is a habit of reading to forget. You
know what a bad habit is, how it clings to us, when once contracted, and how hard it is to
be shaken off. Some boys and girls read a book entirely through in a single evening, and the
next day are eagerly at work on another, to be as quickly mastered. No mind, however strong,
can stand such a strain. You see at once that it would be absolutely impossible for them to
remember what they read. And so they read for a momentary enjoyment, and gradually fall into
the habit I have spoken of--reading to forget. I need not tell you that such a habit is fatal
to any very high position in life.

How often we hear parents boast that their children are "great readers," just as if their intelligence
should, in their opinion, be measured by the number of books and papers which they had read!
Need I say, that, on the contrary, they are objects of pity?

But how much may we read with profit? That is a question not always easy to answer. Some can
read a great deal more than others. Yet, if young people read slowly, and think a great deal
about the subject, there is very little danger of their reading too much, provided they select
only good books; because good books are very scarce--much more so in proportion to the number
printed than they were twenty years ago; and there are very few young persons who have too
great a supply of good works placed within their reach.

I have mentioned one evil which results from too much reading, and will only briefly allude
to another equally important. Children who attend school have no time to devote to worthless
books. Their studies consume many hours. If, aside from the time which should be devoted to
play, to their meals, and the various duties of home, they will read a useless book every day
or two, their health is sure to suffer. The evil consequences may not be at once apparent,
but in later years the penalty will certainly have to be paid. This reflection alone, if there
were no other reason, should induce the young to discard all useless books, and read only such
as shall have a tendency to make them wiser and better.

THE CORAL-WORKERS.

    The little coral-workers,
      By their slow but constant motion,
    Have built those pretty islands
      In the distant dark-blue ocean;
    And the noblest undertakings
       Man's wisdom hath conceived
    By oft-repeated efforts
       Have been patiently achieved.

LION THE FIRE DOG.

Lion, who was a cross between a Great St. Bernard and a Newfoundland dog, came into the possession
of the superintendent of the London fire brigade when he was but twelve months old. His first
retreat was in the engine-house, where, on some old hose and sacking, he made himself as comfortable
as he could, and coiled himself up, like the tubing on which he lay. Considering that he was
thus placed in charge of the engine-house, he resented the first occasion on which a fire occurred
at night. The fire bell rang, and the firemen crowded to the spot, prepared to draw forth the
engine, when a decided opposition was made on the part of Lion, who showed a determination
to fasten himself on the first fireman who dared to enter the house. In this way the faithful
dog kept them all at bay until the arrival of his master, whom he instantly recognized and
obeyed. As soon as the horses were harnessed, and the engine was in motion, Lion bounded along
in company, and was present at his first fire. After that time, he attended no less than three
hundred and thirty-two fires, and not only attended, but assisted at them, always useful, and
sometimes doing work and saving life, which, but for him, would have been lost.

His chief friends, the firemen, say it would take a long while to tell all his acts of daring
and sagacity; but we must, in justice to his memory, record some of the most notable.

Whenever the fire bell rang, Lion was immediately on the alert, barking loudly, as if to spread
the dire alarm. Then, as soon as his master had taken his place on the engine, and before the
horses were off, he led the way, clearing the road and warning every one of the approach of
the engine, and spreading the news of the fire by his loud voice.

On one occasion, when the horses were tearing along the streets as fire engine horses alone
can, a little child was seen just in front of the engine. To stop the horses in time was impossible,
though the driver did his best. The brave hearts of the firemen sank within them as they felt
they must drive over the little body. Bystanders raised their arms and shrieked as they witnessed
an impending catastrophe which they could do nothing to avert. No human help could avail, and
it must needs be that the engine of mercy, on its way to save life, must sacrifice the life
of an innocent, helpless child!

But stay! Human eyes were not the only ones that took in that sad scene, and that saw the impending
doom of the little one. Brave, sagacious, and fleet, Lion saw at a glance the danger that threatened
the child, and springing forward, he knocked him down; then seizing him firmly in his jaws,
he made for the pavement obliquely, and gently deposited his charge in the gutter just as the
engine went tearing by.

But this was only an incident by the way; Lion's real work began when the scene of the fire
was reached. As soon as the door was opened, or dashing through the window if there was a delay
in opening the door, the noble animal would run all over the burning house, barking, so as
to arouse the inmates if they were unaware of the danger; and never would he leave the fire
until he had either aroused them or had drawn the attention of the firemen to them.

Once the firemen could not account for his conduct. Darting into the burning house,--the ceilings
of which had given way,--and then out again to the firemen, he howled and yelled most loudly.
It was believed that no one was in the house, but Lion's conduct made his master feel uneasy.

Still nothing could be done by way of entering the house, as the fire was raging fiercely,
and the house would soon fall in. Finding that his entreaties were not regarded, and suffering
from burns and injuries, the noble animal discontinued his efforts, but ran uneasily round
the engine, howling in a piteous manner; nor would he leave the spot after the fire was put
out until search was made, when beneath the still smouldering embers, the firemen discovered
the charred body of an old man, whom he had done his utmost to save.

Lion's noble efforts, however, were often crowned with success; and many a one has to bless
the wondrous qualities with which God had endowed him.

At one fire, after the inmates had made their escape, a cry was raised that "the baby had been
left behind in the cradle up stairs," though no one seemed to be able to indicate the room.
The fire had so far got hold of the dwelling, such dense volumes of flame and smoke were issuing
from every opening, that it was impossible for any fireman to enter, and the crowd stood horror-stricken
at the thought of the perishing babe.

The crisis was a terrible one; an effort was made, an entry was effected, and some of the men
ventured some distance within the burning pile, only to retrace their steps.

At this emergency, Lion dashed past the men, disappeared amid the flames, but returned in a
minute into the street with the empty cradle in his powerful jaws. The consequence of this
almost incredible feat--which was witnessed by many--may be better imagined than described.

The fact that Lion did not re-enter the house--which, though badly burned, he would doubtless
have done had he left the child behind--was sufficient to convince the dullest intellect that
the child was secure; and it was very soon ascertained that the object of search was safe in
a neighboring house.

No wonder, then, that this noble animal endeared himself to all who knew him; and those who
knew him best loved him the most. For fourteen years Lion continued his noble and useful career
as public benefactor, as friend and companion to the firemen, and as mourner at their graves;
for he attended the funerals of no less than eleven of them.

Death came to him at length; for last year he died from injuries received in the discharge
of his self-imposed duties.

There are few of our readers who would not have liked to pat that brave old dog; there are
fewer still who may not learn useful and valuable lessons from the speaking testimony of that
dumb animal.

                                            BENJAMIN CLARKE.

TO THE CARDINAL FLOWER.

    O, my princely flower, shall I never win
    To your moated citadel within,
                     To your guarded thought?

    The pansies are proud; but they show to me
    Their purple velvets from over the sea,
                     With gold inwrought.

    And they gently smile wherever we meet;
    They seem to me like proud ladies sweet
                     From a foreign shore.

    Wild primrose buds in my very hand
    Their odorous evening stars expand,
                     And all their lore.

    But your strange eyes gleam as they pass me by,
    And seem to dream of a warmer sky,
                     Far over the sea.

                                  M. R. W.

THE SONG OF THE ROSE.

    I come not when the earth is brown, and gray
    The skies; I am no flower of a day,
    No crocus I, to bloom and pass away;

    No cowslip bright, or hyacinth that clings
    Close to the earth, from whence it springs;
    Nor tulip, gay as song birds' wings.

    I am the royal rose, and all things fair
    Grow fairer for my sake; the earth, the air,
    Proclaim the coming of the flower most rare.

    Green is the earth, and beautiful the sky,
    And soft the breeze, that loves to linger nigh;
    I am the rose, and who with me shall vie?

    The earth is full of gladness, all in tune
    With songs of birds; and now I come, O June,
    To crown thee, month of beauty, with my bloom.

                                  T. E. D.

RICH AND POOR.

    My dear little girl, with the flowers in your hair,
    Stop singing a moment, and look over there;
    While you are so safe in the sheltering fold,
    With treasures of silver, and treasures of gold,
    Just a few steps away, in a dark, narrow street,
    With no pure, cooling drink, and no morsel to eat,
    A poor girl is dying, no older than you;
    Her lips were as red, and her eyes were as blue,
    Her step was as light, and her song was as sweet,
    And the heart in her bosom as merrily beat.

    But now she is dying, so lonely and poor,
    For famine and fever crept in at the door.
    While you were so gay, in your beautiful dress,
    With music and laughter, and friends to caress,
    From the dawn to the end of the weariful day,
    She was always at work, with no moment for play.
    She saw you sometimes, but you seemed like a star
    That gleamed in the distance, so dim and afar.
    And often she wondered if God up above
    Remembered the poor girl, in pity and love.

    Ah, yes, He remembered, 'mid harpings and hymns,
    And loud alleluias, and waving of wings,
    He heard in His heaven the sound of her tears,
    And called her away while the sun of her years
    Was yet in the east; now, she never will need
    From you any more a compassionate deed.
    Nay, some time, perhaps, from her home in the skies,
    She will look back to see you with tears in your eyes,
    For sooner or later we quiver with pain,
    And down on us all drops the sorrowful rain.

    She never will need you; but many bereft,
    Hungry, and heart-sore, and homeless are left.
    You can, if you will, from the place where you stand,
    Reach downward to help them; the touch of your hand,
    The price of one jewel, the gift of a flower,
    May waken within them, with magical power,
    A hope that was dying. O, don't be afraid
    The poor and the desolate spirit to aid.
    The burdens are heavy that some one must bear,
    You dear little girl with the flowers in your hair.

                        ELLEN M. H. GATES.

LACE-MAKING.

"See, mamma what is the woman doing? She looks as if she was holding a pin-cushion in her lap
and was sticking pins in it."

"So she is, my dear," Ellen's mother remarked. "But that is not all she is doing. There is
a cluster of bobbins hanging down one side of the cushion which are wound with threads, and
these threads she weaves around the pins in such a manner as to make lace."

"I never saw anybody make lace that way. I have seen Aunt Maria knit it with a crochet-hook."

"This is a different kind of lace altogether from the crocheted lace. They do not make it in
the United States. The woman whom you see in the picture lives in Belgium in Europe. In that
country, and in some parts of France and Germany, many of the poorer people earn a living at
lace-making. The pattern which in making the lace it is intended to follow is pricked with
a pin on a strip of paper. This paper is fastened on the cushion, and then pins are stuck in
through all the pin-holes, and then the thread from these bobbins is woven around the lace."

"Can they work fast?"

"An accomplished lace-maker will make her hands fly as fast as though she were playing the
piano, always using the right bobbin, no matter how many of them there may be. In making the
pattern of a piece of nice lace from two hundred to eight hundred bobbins are sometimes used.
In such a case it takes more than one person--sometimes as many as seven--at a single cushion."

"It must be hard to do."

"I dare say it would be for you or me. Yet in those countries little children work at lace-making.
Little children, old women and the least skilful of the men make the plainer and coarser laces,
while experienced women make the nicer sorts."

"What do they do with their lace when it is finished?"

"All the lace-makers in a neighborhood bring in their laces once a week to the 'mistress'--for
women carry on the business of lace-making--then this 'mistress' packs them up and takes them
to the nearest market-town, where they are peddled about from one trading-house to another
until they are all sold."

"Do they get much for them?"

"The poor lace-makers get hardly enough to keep them from starvation for their fine and delicate
work; but the laces, after they have passed through the hands of one trader after another,
and are at last offered to the public, bring enormous prices. A nice library might be bought
for the price of a set of laces, or a beautiful house built at the cost of a single flounce."

"I think I should rather have the house, mamma."

"So should I. But the people who buy these laces probably have houses already. There is over
four million dollars' worth of lace sold every year in Belgium alone."

Ellen thought she should never see a piece of nice lace without thinking of these wonderful
lace-makers, who produce such delicate work and yet are paid so little for it; and while she
was thus thinking over the matter, mamma went quietly on with her sewing.

HELP YOURSELVES.

Many boys and girls make a failure in life because they do not learn to help themselves. They
depend on father and mother even to hang up their hats and to find their playthings. When they
become men and women, they will depend on husbands and wives to do the same thing. "A nail
to hang a hat on," said an old man of eighty years, "is worth everything to a boy." He had
been "through the mill," as people say, so that he knew. His mother had a nail for him when
he was a boy--"a nail to hang his hat on," and nothing else. It was "Henry's nail" from January
to January, year in and out, and no other member of the family was allowed to appropriate it
for any purpose whatever. If the broom by chance was hung thereon, or an apron or coat, it
was soon removed, because that nail was "to hang Henry's hat on." And that nail did much for
Henry; it helped make him what he was in manhood--a careful, systematic, orderly man, at home
and abroad, on his farm and in his house. He never wanted another to do what he could do for
himself.

Young folks are apt to think that certain things, good in themselves, are not honorable. To
be a blacksmith or a bootmaker, to work on a farm or drive a team, is beneath their dignity,
as compared with being a merchant, or practising medicine or law. This is PRIDE, an enemy to
success and happiness. No necessary labor is discreditable. It is never dishonorable to be
useful. It is beneath no one's dignity to earn bread by the sweat of the brow. When boys who
have such false notions of dignity become men, they are ashamed to help themselves as they
ought, and for want of this quality they live and die unhonored. Trying to save their dignity,
they lose it.

Here is a fact we have from a very successful merchant. When he began business for himself,
he carried his wares from shop to shop. At length his business increased to such an extent,
that he hired a room at the Marlboro' Hotel, in Boston, during the business season, and thither
the merchants, having been duly notified, would repair to make purchases. Among all his customers,
there was only one man who would carry to his store the goods which he had purchased. The buyers
asked to have their goods carried, and often this manufacturer would carry them himself. But
there was one merchant, and the largest buyer of the whole number, who was not ashamed to be
seen carrying a case of goods through the streets. Sometimes he would purchase four cases,
and he would say, "Now, I will take two, and you take two, and we will carry them right over
to the store." So the manufacturer and the merchant often went through the streets of Boston
quite heavily loaded. This merchant, of all the number who went to the Marlboro' Hotel for
their purchases, succeeded in business. He became a wealthy man when all the others failed.
The manufacturer, who was not ashamed to help himself, is now living--one of the wealthy men
of Massachusetts, ready to aid, by his generous gifts, every good object that comes along,
and honored by all who know him.

You have often heard and read the maxim, "God helps those who help themselves." Is it not true?

                                          WILLIAM M. THAYER.

THE STORY OF JOHNNY DAWDLE.

    Here, little folks, listen; I'll tell you a tale,
    Though to shock and surprise you I fear it won't fail;
    Of Master John Dawdle my story must be,
    Who, I'm sorry to say, is related to me.

    And yet, after all, he's a nice little fellow:
    His eyes are dark brown and his hair is pale yellow;
    And though not very clever or tall, it is true
    He is better than many, if worse than a few.

    But he dawdles at breakfast, he dawdles at tea--
    He's the greatest small dawdle that ever could be;
    And when in his bedroom, it is his delight
    To dawdle in dressing at morning and night.

    And oh! if you saw him sit over a sum,
    You'd much wish to pinch him with finger and thumb;
    And then, if you scold him, he looks up so meek;
    Dear me! one would think that he hardly could speak.

    Each morning the same he comes tumbling down,
    And often enough is received with a frown,
    And a terrible warning of something severe
    Unless on the morrow he sooner appear.

    But where does he live? That I'd rather not say,
    Though, if truth must be told, I have met him to-day;
    I meant just to pass him with merely a bow,
    But he stopped and conversed for a minute or so.

    "Well, where are you going?" politely said I;
    To which he replied, with a groan and a sigh,
    "I've been doing my Latin from breakfast till dinner,
    And pretty hard work that is for a beginner."

    "But now I suppose you are going to play
    And have pleasure and fun for the rest of the day?"
    "Indeed, but I'm not--there's that bothering sum;
    And then there's a tiresome old copy to come."

    "Dear me!" I replied, and I thought it quite sad
    There should be such hard work for one poor little lad;
    But just at that moment a lady passed by,
    And her words soon made clear that mistaken was I:

    "Now, then, Mr. Dawdle, get out of my way!
    I suppose you intended to stop here all day;
    The bell has done ringing, and yet, I declare,
    Your hands are not washed, nor yet brushed is your hair."

    "Ho, ho!" I exclaimed; "Mr. Dawdle, indeed!"
    And I took myself off with all possible speed,
    Quite distressed that I should for a moment be seen
    With one who so lazy and careless had been.

    So now, if you please, we will wish him good-bye;
    And if you should meet him by chance, as did I,
    Just bid him good-morning, and say that a friend
    (Only don't mention names) hopes he soon may amend.

THE MOTHERLESS BOY.

One day, about a year ago, the door of my sitting-room was thrown suddenly open, and the confident
voice of Harvey thus introduced a stranger:

"Here's Jim Peters, mother."

I looked up, not a little surprised at the sight of a ragged, barefoot child.

Before I had time to say anything, Harvey went on:

"He lives round in Blake's Court and hasn't any mother. I found him on a doorstep feeding birds."

My eyes rested on the child's face while my boy said this. It was a very sad little face, thin
and colorless, not bold and vicious, but timid and having a look of patient suffering. Harvey
held him firmly by the hand with the air of one who bravely protects the weak.

"No mother!" said I, in tones of pity.

"No, ma'am; he hasn't any mother. Have you, Jim?"

"No," answered the child.

"She's been dead ever so long; hasn't she, Jim?"

"Yes, ever since last winter," he said as he fixed his eyes, into which I saw the tears coming,
upon my face. My heart moved toward him, repulsive as he was because of his rags and dirt.

"One of God's little lambs straying on the cold and barren hills of life," said a voice in
my heart. And then I felt a tender compassion for the strange, unlovely child.

"Where do you live?" I asked.

"Round in Blake's Court," he replied.

"Who with?"

"Old Mrs. Flint; but she doesn't want me."

"Why not?"

"Oh, because I'm nothing to her, she says, and she doesn't want the trouble of me." He tried
to say this in a brave, don't-care sort of way, but his voice faltered and he dropped his eyes
to the floor. How pitiful he looked!

"Poor child!" I could not help saying aloud.

Light flashed over his pale face. It was something new to him, this interest and compassion.

"One of God's little lambs." I heard the voice in my heart saying this again. Nobody to love
him--nobody to care for him. Poor little boy! The hand of my own child, my son who is so very
dear to me, had led him in through our door and claimed for him the love and care so long a
stranger to his heart. Could I send him out and shut the door upon him, when I knew that he
had no mother and no home? If I heeded not the cry of this little one precious in God's sight,
might I not be thought unworthy to be the guardian of another lamb of his fold whom I loved
as my own life?

"I've got heaps of clothes, mother--a great many more than I want. And my bed is wide. There's
room enough in the house, and we've plenty to eat," said Harvey, pleading for the child. I
could not withstand all these appeals. Rising, I told the little stranger to follow me. When
we came back to the sitting-room half an hour afterward, Jim Peters would hardly have been
known by his old acquaintances, if any of them had been there. A bath and clean clothes had
made a wonderful change in him.

I watched the poor little boy, as he and Harvey played during the afternoon, with no little
concern of mind. What was I to do with him? Clean and neatly dressed, there was a look of refinement
about the child which had nearly all been hidden by rags and dirt. He played gently, and his
voice had in it a sweetness of tone, as it fell every now and then upon my ears, that was really
winning. Send him back to Mrs. Flint's in Blake's Court? The change I had wrought upon him
made this impossible. No, he could not be sent back to Mrs. Flint's, who didn't want the trouble
of him. What then?

Do the kind hearts of my little readers repeat the question, "What then?" Do they want very
much to know what has become of little Jim Peters?

It is just a year since my boy led him in from the street, and Jim is still in our house. No
one came for him. No one inquired about him. No one cared for him. I must take that last sentence
back. God cared for him, and by the hand of my tender-hearted son brought him into my comfortable
home and said to me, "Here is one of my lambs, astray, hungry and cold. He was born into the
world that he might become an angel in heaven, but is in danger of being lost. I give him into
your care. Let me find him when I call my sheep by their names."

As I finished writing the last sentence a voice close to my ear said "Mother!" I turned and
received a loving kiss from the lips of Jim. He often does this. I think, in the midst of his
happy plays, memory takes him back to the suffering past, and then his grateful heart runs
over and he tries to reward me with a loving kiss. I did not tell him to call me "Mother."
At first he said it in a timid, hesitating way, and with such a pleading, half-scared look
that I was touched and softened.

"She isn't your real mother," said Harvey, who happened to be near, "but then she's good and
loves you ever so much."

"And I love her," answered Jim, with a great throb in his throat, hiding his face in my lap
and clasping and kissing my hand. Since then he always calls me "Mother;" and the God and Father
of us all has sent into my heart a mother's love for him, and I pray that he may be mine when
I come to make up my jewels in heaven.

THE GOOD SHEPHERD.

    Jesus says that we must love him.
      Helpless as the lambs are we;
    But He very kindly tells us
      That our Shepherd He will be.

    Heavenly Shepherd, please to watch us,
      Guard us both by night and day;
    Pity show to little children,
      Who like lambs too often stray.

    We are always prone to wander:
      Please to keep us from each snare;
    Teach our infant hearts to praise Thee
      For Thy kindness and Thy care.

THE ST. BERNARD DOG.

By the pass of the Great St. Bernard travellers cross the Pennine Alps (Penn, a Celtic word,
meaning height) along the mountain road which leads from Martigny, in Switzerland, to Aosta,
in Piedmont. On the crest of the pass, eight thousand two hundred feet above the sea level,
stands the Hospice, tenanted by about a dozen monks.

This is supposed to be the highest spot in Europe inhabited by human beings. The climate is
necessarily rigorous, the thermometer in winter being often twenty-nine degrees below zero,
whilst sixty-eight degrees Fahrenheit is about the highest range ever attained in summer. From
the extreme difficulty of respiration, few of the monks ever survive the period of their vow,
which is fifteen years, commencing at the age of eighteen.

This hospice is said to have been first founded in the year 962, by Bernard, a Piedmontese
nobleman. It will be remembered that it was over this pass Napoleon, in May, 1800, led an army
of thirty thousand men into Italy, having with them heavy artillery and cavalry.

For poor travellers and traders the hospice is really a place of refuge. During winter, crossing
this pass is a very dangerous affair. The snow falls in small particles, and remains as dry
as dust. Whirlwinds, called "tourmentes," catch up this light snow, and carrying it with blinding
violence against the traveller, burying every landmark, at once put an end to knowledge of
position. Avalanches, too, are of frequent occurrence.

After violent storms, or the fall of avalanches, or any other unusual severity of winter weather,
the monks set out in search of travellers who may have been overwhelmed by the snow in their
ascent of the pass. They are generally accompanied in their search by dogs of a peculiar breed,
commonly known as the St. Bernard's Dog, on account of the celebrated monastery where these
magnificent animals are taught to exercise their wondrous powers, which have gained for them
and their teachers a world-wide fame. On their neck is a bell, to attract the attention of
any belated wayfarer; and their deep and powerful bay quickly gives notice to the benevolent
monks to hurry to the relief of any unfortunate traveller they may find.

Some of the dogs carry, attached to their collars, a flask of spirits or other restorative.
Their wonderfully acute sense of smell enables them to detect the bodies of persons buried
deeply beneath the surface of the snow, and thus direct the searchers where to dig for them.
The animal's instinct seems to teach it, too, where hidden chasms or clefts, filled with loose
snow, are; for it carefully avoids them, and thus is an all-important guide to the monks themselves.

We have stories without number as to what these dogs accomplish on their own account; how they
dig out travellers, and bring them, sometimes unaided by man, to the hospice.

A few years ago one of these faithful animals might be seen wearing a medal, and regarded with
much affection by all. This noble dog had well deserved the distinction; for one stormy day
he had saved twenty-two individuals buried in their snowy envelope. Unfortunately, he met,
at a subsequent period, the very fate from which he had rescued so many persons. At the worst
season an Italian courier was crossing the pass, attended by two monks, each escorted by a
dog (one being the wearer of the medal), when suddenly a vast avalanche shot down upon them
with lightning speed, and they were all lost.

Another of these dogs, named "Barry," had served the St. Bernard Convent during twelve years,
and had saved the lives of fifteen persons during that time. Whenever the pass was obscured
by fogs and wintry snow-storms, he would go forth in search of lost travellers. It was his
practice to run barking till he lost his breath, and he would venture into the most dangerous
places. If, as sometimes happened, he did not succeed in drawing out from the snow some traveller
stiffened with cold or overcome with exhaustion, he would run back to the convent and fetch
some of the monks.

One day this brave dog found a little child in a half-frozen state. He began directly to lick
him, and having succeeded first in restoring animation, and next in the complete resuscitation
of the boy, he induced the child, by his caresses, to tie himself on his back. When this was
effected, he transported the poor child, as if in triumph, to the hospice. When overtaken by
old age, the glorious dog was pensioned off by way of reward, and after his death his body
was stuffed and placed in the museum at Berne.

It is said that dogs of this variety inherit the faculty of tracking footsteps in snow.

Sir Thomas Dick Lander, who for many years resided at Grange House, Edinburgh, had a fine dog
of the St. Bernard breed presented to him. Its bark was so loud that it could be distinguished
at the distance of a mile. Its bark once led to its recovery, when stolen by some carters.
"Bass," as the dog was named, had been missing for some time, when it was brought back to Grange
House by a letter-carrier, who said that in going along a certain street, he heard a barking
inside a yard, and at once recognized the voice of Bass. "He knocked at the gate," writes Sir
Thomas, "and immediately said to the owner of the premises,--

"'You have got Sir Thomas Lander's big dog.'

"The man denied it.

"'But I know you have,' continued the letter-carrier. 'I am certain that I heard the bark of
Sir Thomas's big dog; for there is no other dog in or about all Edinburgh that has such a bark.'

"The man then admitted that he had a large dog, which he had bought for a trifle from a couple
of coal carters; and at last, with great reluctance, he gave up the dog to the letter-carrier,
who brought him home here."

Sir Thomas, after describing many of Bass's characteristics, then proceeds:--

"He took a particular fancy for one of the postmen who delivers letters here, though he was
not the man whom I have already had occasion to mention. It was the duty of this postman I
now allude to, besides delivering letters, to carry a letter-bag from one receiving house to
another, and this big bag he used to give Bass to carry. Bass always followed that man through
all the villas in the neighborhood where he had deliveries to make, and he invariably parted
with him opposite to the gate of the Convent of St. Margaret's, and returned home.

"When our gate was shut, to prevent his following the postman, the dog always leaped a high
wall to get after him. One day, when the postman was ill, or detained by some accidental circumstance,
he sent a man in his place. Bass went up to the man, curiously scanning his face, whilst the
man retired from the dog, by no means liking his appearance, and very anxious to decline all
acquaintance with him. But as the man left the place, Bass followed him, showing strong symptoms
that he was determined to have the post-bag. The man did all he could to keep the possession of it.

THE FLIGHT OF THE BIRDS.

    O wise little birds! how do you know
            The way to go
    Southward and northward, to and fro?

    Far up in the ether piped they:
            "We but obey
    One who calleth us far away.

    "He calleth and calleth year by year
            Now there, now here;
    Ever He maketh the way appear."

    Dear little birds, He calleth me
            Who calleth ye:
    Would that I might as trusting be!

FOR THE CHILDREN.

    Come stand by my knee, little children,
      Too weary for laughter or song;
    The sports of the daylight are over,
      And evening is creeping along;
    The snow-fields are white in the moonlight,
      The winds of the winter are chill,
    But under the sheltering roof-tree
      The fire shineth ruddy and still.

    You sit by the fire, little children,
      Your cheeks are ruddy and warm;
    But out in the cold of the winter
      Is many a shivering form.
    There are mothers that wander for shelter,
      And babes that are pining for bread;
    Oh, thank the dear Lord, little children,
      From whose tender hand you are fed.

    Come look in my eyes, little children,
      And tell me, through all the long day,
    Have you thought of the Father above us,
      Who guarded from evil our way?
    He heareth the cry of the sparrow,
      And careth for great and for small;
    In life and in death, little children,
      His love is the truest of all.

    Now come to your rest, little children,
      And over your innocent sleep,
    Unseen by your vision, the angels
      Their watch through the darkness shall keep;
    Then pray that the Shepherd who guideth
      The lambs that He loveth so well
    May lead you, in life's rosy morning,
      Beside the still waters to dwell.

REASON AND INSTINCT.

Are dogs endowed with reason? As you grow up, you will spend many happy hours in the contemplation
of this interesting question. It does sometimes seem as if there could be no possible doubt
that dogs, as well as horses, elephants, and some other of the higher animals, are gifted with
the dawn of reason, so extraordinary are some of their acts.

It is but a few days since a dog in Vermont saved a house from burning, and possibly the inmates.
The dog discovered the fire in the kitchen, flew to his master's apartment, leaped upon his
bed, and so aroused the people to a sense of their danger.

"As I was walking out one frosty morning with a large Newfoundland dog," says the Rev. J. C.
Atkinson, "I observed the animal's repeated disappointment on putting his head down to drink
at sundry ice-covered pools. After one of these disappointments, I broke the ice with my foot
for my thirsty companion. The next time Tiger was thirsty, he did not wait for me to 'break
the ice,' but with his foot, or, if too strong, by jumping upon it, he obtained water for himself."

Here seems to be the manifestation of a desire to learn from observation.

After the battle of Fredericksburg, it fell to my duty to search a given district for any dead
or wounded soldiers there might be left, and to bring relief. Near an old brick dwelling I
discovered a soldier in gray who seemed to be dead. Lying by his side was a noble dog, with
his head flat upon his master's neck. As I approached, the dog raised his eyes to me good-naturedly,
and began wagging his tail; but he did not change his position. The fact that the animal did
not growl, that he did not move, but, more than all, the intelligent, joyful expression of
his face, convinced me that the man was only wounded, which proved to be the case. A bullet
had pierced his throat, and faint from the loss of blood, he had fallen down where he lay.
His dog had actually stopped the bleeding from the wound by laying his head across it. Whether
this was casual or not, I cannot say. But the shaggy coat of the faithful creature was completely
matted with his master's blood.

Strange as these facts may appear, we should not confound INSTINCT with intelligence which
comes from REASON. There is a wide difference between them. Before long I propose to discuss
this matter to some extent, in an article which I have already begun.

TOUCH NOT.

    Touch not the tempting cup, my boy,
      Though urged by friend or foe;
    Dare, when the tempter urges most,
      Dare nobly say, No--no!
    The joyous angel from on high
    Shall tell your soul the reason why.

    Touch not the tempting cup, my boy;
      In righteousness be brave;
    Take not the first, a single step,
      Towards a drunkard's grave;
    The widow's groan, the orphan's sigh,
    Shall tell your soul the reason why.

CHILDREN.

    What could we without them,
      Those flowers of life?
    How bear all the sorrows
      With which it is rife?
    As long as they blossom,
      Whilst brightly they bloom,
    Our own griefs are nothing,
      Forgotten our gloom.

    We joy in the sunshine--
      It sheds on them light;
    We welcome the shower--
      It makes them more bright;
    On our pathway of thorns
      They are thrown from above,
    And they twine round about us,
      And bless us with love.

    Bright, beautiful flowers,
      So fresh and so pure!
    How could we without them
      Life's troubles endure?
    So guileless and holy,
      Such soothers of strife,
    What could we without them,
      Sweet flowers of life?

THE WHITE BUTTERFLY.

A TALE FOR CHILDREN.

Very slowly and wearily over road and hedge flew a white butterfly one calm May evening; its
wings had been torn and battered in its flight from eager pursuers, who little cared that their
pleasure was another's pain. On, on, went the fugitive, until it came to a little garden so
sweet and quiet that it rested from its flight and said, "Here, at least, I shall find peace;
these gentle flowers will give me shelter." Then, with eager swiftness, it flew to a stately
peony. "Oh, give me shelter, thou beautiful flower!" it murmured as it rested for a second
upon its crimson head--a second only, for, with a jerk and an exclamation of disgust, the peony
cast the butterfly to the ground. With a low sigh it turned to the pansy near. Well, the pansy
wished to be kind, but the butterfly was really very tattered and dirty; and then velvet soils
so easily that she must beg to be excused. The wall-flower, naturally frank and good-natured,
had been so tormented all day by those troublesome bees that she solemnly vowed she would do
nothing more for anybody.

The tulips were asleep; and the other flowers, trying to emulate fair Lady Rose, held their
heads so very high that they, of course, did not hear the low, soft cry, "Oh, will no one give
me shelter?" At last there came an answer, "I will, gladly," in a shy and trembling tone, as
though fearing to be presumptuous, from a thick thorny bush which helped to protect the more
dainty beauties from the rough blasts of a sometimes too boisterous wind; in consideration
of which service the flowers considered the briar as a good, useful sort of thing, respectable
enough in its common way, but not as an equal or associate, you understand. With gratitude
the forlorn butterfly rested all night in the bosom of one of its simple white blossoms.

When night had gone and the bright sun came gliding up from the east, calling on Nature to
awake, the flowers raised their heads in all the pride of renewed beauty and saluted one another.
Where was the forlorn butterfly? Ah! where? They saw it no more; but over the white blossom
where it had rested there hovered a tiny fairy in shining, changing sheen, her wand sparkling
with dewdrops. She looked down on the flowers with gentle, reproachful eye, while they bent
low in wonder and admiration.

"Who is it?" they asked. "How beautiful! how lovely!"

The fairy heard them with a smile, and said, "Fair flowers, I was a shabby butterfly; what
I am, you see. I came to you poor and weary; and because I was poor and weary you shut me out
from your hearts."

The pansy and the wall-flower bent their heads in sorrow, and Lady Rose blushed with shame.

"If I had only known!" muttered the peony; "but who would have thought it?"

"Who indeed?" laughed the fairy; "but learn, proud peony, that he who thinks always of self
loses much of life's sweetness--far more than he ever suspects; for goodness is as the dew
of the heart, and yieldeth refreshment and happiness, even if it win no other recompense. But
it is meet that it should be rewarded. Behold, all of you!" and the fairy touched with her
wand the white blossom on which she had rested, saying, "For thy sweetness be thou loved for
ever!" At these words a thrill of happiness stirred the sap of the rough, neglected briar,
and a soft, lovely blush suffused the petals of its flowers, and from its green leaves came
forth an exquisite odor, perfuming the whole garden and eclipsing the other flowers in their pride.

Then the fairy rose in the air, and hovering over her resting-place for a moment ere she vanished
said, "Such is the reward of goodness. Fare thee well, sweet briar!"

WORKING IS BETTER THAN WISHING.

"Now then, Tom, lad, what's up? in trouble again?" asked a good-natured sailor of his messmate,
one snowy day on the wide Atlantic.

The boy was leaning moodily against the bulwarks of the vessel--a pleasant, ruddy young fellow
of fourteen, but with a cloud on his face which looked very like discontent.

Snow was falling heavily, but he did not heed it; he looked up, however, at the approach of
his friend, and answered,--

"I'm all right, Pearson; it isn't that. I was only wishing and wondering why I can't get what
I want; it seems a shame, it does!" and Tom paused abruptly, half choked by a sob.

"What is it, Tom?" asked Pearson; "have the other lads been plaguing? Such a big, hearty fellow
as you ought not to fret for that."

"I don't," said Tom, sharply; "it's not that; but they've found out that my little brother
is in the workhouse at home, and they throw it at me. I'd do anything to get him out, too,
for he oughtn't to be there: we come of a better sort, Pearson," he said, proudly; "but father
and mother dying of that fever put us all wrong. Uncle got me to sea, and then, I suppose,
he thought he'd done enough; so there was only the workhouse left for Willy. He's the jolliest
little chap, Pearson, you ever saw, and I'd work day and night to get him out, if I could;
but where's the use? A poor boy like me can do nothing; so I just get in a rage, or don't care
about anything, and fight the other lads; or I'm had up for neglect of duty, or something."

"And so you lose all chance of getting on, and being able in time to help your little brother,"
said Pearson, as if musing; "but what's that you have in your hand, Tom--a picture?"

"It's Willy," said the boy; "yes, you may look, Pearson. Mother had it taken just before she
fell ill; he's only four, but he's the prettiest little chap, with yellow hair all in curls.
I dare say they've cut them off, though," he added, bitterly. "There's a bit of a sickly child
on board, belonging to the tall lady in black, that reminds me a little of him, only he isn't
near as pretty as Willy."

"Yes, he is a pretty little lad," said Pearson, returning the photograph; "and now, Tom, mind
my word: I am an old fellow compared to you, and I'll give you a bit of advice. The little
lad is safe, at any rate, in the workhouse; he's got food and clothes, and you couldn't give
him that; so be content, and try to do your own duty. If you get a good character, instead
of being always had up for sulking or fighting, that's the best chance for you, and, after
you, for Willy. As for the lads' teasing, why, be a bit hard of hearing, and before many years,
I warrant, you'll be having Willy aboard ship as boy, when you're an able-bodied seaman."

Tom laughed. "Thank you, Pearson. Well, I'll try; but I do get wishing and bothering of nights."

"Ah, that wishing's a poor trick," said Pearson; "give it up, Tom, and work instead."

People don't often take advice, but this time it was followed. A great deal of rough weather
came on; every one had as much as he could do, and Tom worked with the best of them, and to
his great joy was noticed by the ship's officers as a willing lad.

One bright morning brought all the passengers on deck,--the ship was bound for Rio,--and among
them came the tall lady in black, with her little boy in her arms. Tom's duties took him near
her, and he could not but steal a glance at the little face like Willy's; but, O, so pale and
pinched now! The child had suffered dreadfully in the rough weather; it was doubtful whether
he would see land again, he was so weakened. Tom felt sorry for the little fellow, but his
work engrossed him, and he had nearly forgotten the white-faced child, when, to his great surprise,
the captain called him. The lady in black was a relative of the captain, and it seemed that
while Tom had been glancing at the sick child, the child had been watching him, and had taken
a fancy to his clear round face, and active movements.

"Let me see what sort of a head-nurse you can make," said the captain to Tom; "this little
fellow will have you carry him, he says, and teach him to climb the rigging."

Tom smiled, but instantly checked himself, as hardly respectful to the captain.

They dressed Carlo up in a suit of sailor clothes. To be sure they were rather large for him,
but then it was such fun to be a real little sailor. Under Tom's care his face soon grew round
and fat, and his merry laugh rang out on the air. And now he would live to see his father and
his birthplace again, for he was born in South America, and had only left his Portuguese father
for a few months, to accompany his English mother on a visit to her relatives.

The day before they sighted land, Tom was sent for into the captain's cabin, and there a wonderful
proposal was made to him--that he should give up sea life, and go to Bella Sierra as little
Carlo's attendant. Carlo's parents were rich people; little Carlo had taken a great fancy to
him, and he would have good wages.

It sounded very pleasant; but little Willy! he should never see him--it would not do. Tom hesitatingly
explained this to Carlo's mother, drawing the little photograph out of his pocket the while.

Then came the last and best proposition,--that Willy should come out on the Flying Star's next
voyage, and live, too, at Bella Sierra. Mrs. Costello--the lady in black--promised to pay all
expenses, and put him in charge of the stewardess. Carlo, her only child, had grown so fond
of Tom, that she would do anything to keep him.

"Such an active, willing boy," she explained to the captain. "I have often watched him at work,
and admired the way in which he did it."

"Well, lad," said Pearson, when Tom came to tell him the news, "wasn't I right when I told
you that the best way you could work for Willy was by doing your own duty? If you had gone
on in that half-and-half, discontented way, no rich lady would have cared to have you about
her house--would she?"

Tom looked thoughtful. "Yes, you were right, Pearson; you've done it all; and now I want you
to do one thing more. Please look after Willy a bit when he comes out; he's such a daring little
chap, he'll always be running away from the stewardess."

"Ah, you want me to be nurse now--do you?" said Pearson; "all right, lad, and as the song says,
'Don't forget me in the land you're going to.' And you can still stick to my old motto, that
'Working is better than Wishing.'"

KIND TO EVERYTHING.

    Softly, softly, little sister,
      Touch those gayly-painted wings;
    Butterflies and moths, remember,
      Are such very tender things.

    Softly, softly, little sister,
      Twirl your limber hazel twig;
    Little hands may harm a nestling
      Thoughtlessly, as well as big.

    Gently stroke the purring pussy,
      Kindly pat the friendly dog;
    Let your unmolesting mercy
      Even spare the toad or frog.

    Wide is God's great world around you:
      Let the harmless creatures live;
    Do not mar their brief enjoyment,
      Take not what you cannot give.

    Let your heart be warm and tender--
      For the mute and helpless plead;
    Pitying leads to prompt relieving,
      Kindly thought to kindly deed.

THAT CALF!

    To the yard, by the barn, came the farmer one morn,
      And, calling the cattle, he said,
    While they trembled with fright, "Now, which of you, last night,
      Shut the barn door, while I was abed?"
      Each one of them all shook his head.

    Now the little calf Spot, she was down in the lot;
      And the way the rest talked was a shame;
    For no one, night before, saw her shut up the door;
      But they said that she did,--all the same,--
      For they always made her take the blame.

    Said the horse (dapple gray), "I was not up that way
      Last night, as I now recollect;"
    And the bull, passing by, tossed his horns very high,
      And said, "Let who may here object,
      I say 'tis that calf I suspect!"

    Then out spoke the cow, "It is terrible, now,
      To accuse honest folks of such tricks."
    Said the cock in the tree, "I'm sure 'twasn't me;"
      And the sheep all cried, "Bah!" (There were six.)
      "Now that calf's got herself in a fix!"

    "Why, of course, we all knew 'twas the wrong thing to do."
      Said the chickens. "Of course," said the cat;
    "I suppose," cried the mule, "some folks think me a fool;
      But I'm not quite so simple as that;
      The poor calf never knows what she's at!"

    Just that moment, the calf, who was always the laugh
      And the jest of the yard, came in sight.
    "Did you shut my barn door?" asked the farmer once more.
      "I did, sir; I closed it last night,"
      Said the calf; "and I thought that was right."

    Then each one shook his head. "She will catch it," they said;
      "Serve her right for her meddlesome way!"
    Said the farmer, "Come here, little bossy, my dear!
      You have done what I cannot repay,
      And your fortune is made from to-day.

    "For a wonder, last night, I forgot the door, quite;
      And if you had not shut it so neat,
    All my colts had slipped in, and gone right to the bin,
      And got what they ought not to eat--
      They'd have foundered themselves upon wheat."

    Then each hoof of them all began loudly to bawl;
      The very mule smiled; the cock crew;
    "Little Spotty, my dear, you're a favorite here,"
      They cried. "We all said it was you,
      We were so glad to give you your due."
      And the calf answered, knowingly, "Boo!"

                              PHOEBE CARY.

[Decoration]

LITTLE HELPERS.

    Planting the corn and potatoes,
      Helping to scatter the seeds,
    Feeding the hens and the chickens,
      Freeing the garden from weeds,
    Driving the cows to the pasture,
      Feeding the horse in the stall,--
    We little children are busy;
      Sure, there is work for us all.

    Spreading the hay in the sunshine,
      Raking it up when it's dry,
    Picking the apples and peaches
      Down in the orchard hard by,
    Picking the grapes in the vineyard,
      Gathering nuts in the fall,--
    We little children are busy;
      Yes, there is work for us all.

    Sweeping, and washing the dishes,
      Bringing the wood from the shed,
    Ironing, sewing and knitting,
      Helping to make up the beds,
    Taking good care of the baby,
      Watching her lest she should fall,--
    We little children are busy;
      Oh, there is work for us all.

    Work makes us cheerful and happy,
      Makes us both active and strong;
    Play we enjoy all the better
      When we have labored so long.
    Gladly we help our kind parents,
      Quickly we come to their call;
    Children should love to be busy;
      There is much work for us all.

THE ANIMAL IN ARMOR.

This picture of three curious little puppies looking at a tortoise reminds me of a story told
of a countryman who saw some land-tortoises for the first time at a fair held in a market-place
of his native village. Very much surprised at their queer look, he asked the man who was selling
them how much they were.

"Eighteenpence a pair," was the answer.

"Eighteenpence!" said the man; "that is a great deal for a thing like a frog. What will you
take for one without the box?"

Little folks would not make such a stupid mistake as this; they would know that this strange-looking
animal between its two shells was a tortoise. There are different sorts--some that live on
land, and some in water. Those that live in the sea are called turtles, and their shells are
not so hard as that of the land-tortoise. It is easy to see why this is: a turtle would not
be able to swim with so thick a shell; it would be much as if a man in armor were to try. Their
shells are not all in one, but joined together by a sort of gristle, which enables them to
move with greater ease and not so stiffly.

Directly any one hears the name of tortoise, he begins to think of tortoise-shell. This ought
really to be called turtle-shell, as it is made from the shell of the hawk's-bill turtle. Tortoise-shell
is made by soaking the plates of the shell in warm water until they are soft; then they are
pressed into the shapes wanted in warm iron moulds, and taken out and polished.

Some of the sea-turtles are very fierce; and although they have no teeth, their jaws are so
strong that they can bite a walking-stick in half. Land-tortoises are quite harmless; they
only attack the insects they feed upon. They go to sleep, like the dormouse, in the winter,
but they do not make a burrow; they cover themselves with earth by scraping it up and throwing
it over their bodies. In doing this they would find their heads and tails very much in the
way if it were not that they are able to draw them in between their shells. No one, of course,
knows how they find their way out again in the spring; but it is supposed that they scratch
the earth away and throw it underneath them, at the same time pushing their way up.

Tortoises live to a very great age. One was given to the Zoological Gardens in 1833 which had
already lived seventy years in Port Louis, in the island of Mauritius. Its shell, from the
head to the tail, measured four feet four inches and a half, and it weighed two hundred and
eighty-five pounds.

[Decoration]

THE IRON RING.

Chang Wang was a Chinaman, and was reputed to be one of the shrewdest dealers in the Flowery
Land. If making money fast be the test of cleverness, there was not a merchant in the province
of Kwang Tung who had earned a better right to be called clever. Who owned so many fields of
the tea-plant, who shipped so many bales of its leaves to the little island in the west, as
did Chang Wang? It was whispered, indeed, that many of the bales contained green tea made by
chopping up spoiled black tea leaves, and coloring them with copper--a process likely to turn
them into a mild kind of poison; but if the unwholesome trash found purchasers, Chang Wang
never troubled himself with the thought whether any one might suffer in health from drinking
his tea. So long as the dealer made money, he was content; and plenty of money he made.

But knowing how to make money is quite a different thing from knowing how to enjoy it. With
all his ill-gotten gains, Chang Wang was a miserable man; for he had no heart to spend his
silver pieces, even on his own comfort. The rich dealer lived in a hut which one of his own
laborers might have despised; he dressed as a poor Tartar shepherd might have dressed when
driving his flock. Chang Wang grudged himself even a hat to keep off the rays of the sun. Men
laughed, and said that he would have cut off his own pigtail of plaited hair, if he could have
sold it for the price of a dinner!

Chang Wang was, in fact, a miser, and was rather proud than ashamed of the hateful vice of avarice.

Chang Wang had to make a journey to Macao, down the great River Yang-se-kiang, for purposes
of trade. The question with the Chinaman now was, in what way he should travel.

"Shall I hire a palanquin?" thought Chang Wang, stroking his thin mustaches; "no, a palanquin
would cost too much money. Shall I take my passage in a trading vessel?"

The rich trader shook his head, and the pigtail behind it--such a passage would have to be
paid for.

"I know what I'll do," said the miser to himself; "I'll ask my uncle Fing Fang to take me in
his fishing-boat down the great river. It is true that it will make my journey a long one;
but then I shall make it for nothing. I'll go to the fisherman Fing Fang, and settle the matter
at once."

The business was soon arranged, for Fing Fang would not refuse his rich nephew a seat in his
boat. But he, like every one else, was disgusted at Chang Wang's meanness; and as soon as the
dealer had left his hovel, thus spoke Fing Fang to his sons, Ko and Jung:--

"Here's a fellow who has scraped up money enough to build a second Porcelain Tower, and he
comes here to beg a free passage in a fishing-boat from an uncle whom he has never so much
as asked to share a dish of his birds'-nests soup!"

"Birds'-nests soup, indeed!" exclaimed Ko; "why, Chang Wang never indulges in luxuries such
as that. If dogs' flesh were not so cheap, he'd grudge himself the paw of a roasted puppy!"

"And what will Chang Wang make of all his money at last?" said Fing Fang, more gravely; "he
cannot carry it away with him when he dies."

"O, he's gathering it up for some one who will know how to spend it!" laughed Jung. "Chang
Wang is merely fishing for others; what he gathers, they will enjoy."

It was a bright, pleasant day when Chang Wang stepped into the boat of his uncle, to drop slowly
down the great Yang-se-kiang. Many a civil word he said to Fing Fang and his sons, for civil
words cost nothing. Chang Wang sat in the boat, twisting the ends of his long mustaches, and
thinking how much money each row of plants in his tea-fields might bring him. Presently, having
finished his calculations, the miser turned to watch his relations, who were pursuing their
fishing occupation in the way peculiar to China. Instead of rods, lines, or nets, the Fing
Fang family was provided with trained cormorants, which are a kind of bird with a long neck,
large appetite, and a particular fancy for fish.

It was curious to watch a bird diving down in the sunny water, and then suddenly come up again
with a struggling fish in his bill. The fish was, however, always taken away from the cormorant,
and thrown by one of the Fing Fangs into a well at the bottom of the boat.

"Cousin Ko," said the miser, leaning forward to speak, "how is it that your clever cormorants
never devour the fish they catch?"

"Cousin Chang Wang," replied the young man, "dost thou not see that each bird has an iron ring
round his neck, so that he cannot swallow? He only fishes for others."

"Methinks the cormorant has a hard life of it," observed the miser, smiling. "He must wish
his iron ring at the bottom of the Yang-se-kiang."

Fing Fang, who had just let loose two young cormorants from the boat, turned round, and from
his narrow slits of Chinese eyes looked keenly upon his nephew.

"Didst thou ever hear of a creature," said he, "that puts an iron ring around his own neck?"

"There is no such creature in all the land that the Great Wall borders," replied Chang Wang.

Fing Fang solemnly shook the pigtail which hung down his back. Like many of the Chinese, he
had read a great deal, and was a kind of philosopher in his way.

"Nephew Chang Wang," he observed, "I know of a creature (and he is not far off at this moment)
who is always fishing for gain--constantly catching, but never enjoying. Avarice--the love
of hoarding--is the iron ring round his neck; and so long as it stays there, he is much like
one of our trained cormorants--he may be clever, active, successful, but he is only fishing
for others."

I leave my readers to guess whether the sharp dealer understood his uncle's meaning, or whether
Chang Wang resolved in future not only to catch, but to enjoy. Fing Fang's moral might be good
enough for a heathen, but it does not go nearly far enough for a Christian. If a miser is like
a cormorant with an iron ring round his neck, the man or the child who lives for his own pleasure
only, what is he but a greedy cormorant with the iron ring? Who would wish to resemble a cormorant
at all? The bird knows the enjoyment of getting; let us prize the richer enjoyment of giving.
Let me close with an English proverb, which I prefer to the Chinaman's parable--"Charity is
the truest epicure, for she eats with many mouths."

                                                 A. L. O. E.

SUMMER.

    I'm coming along with a bounding pace
      To finish the work that Spring begun;
    I've left them all with a brighter face,
      The flowers in the vales through which I've run.

    I have hung festoons from laburnum trees,
      And clothed the lilac, the birch and broom;
    I've wakened the sound of humming-bees,
      And decked all nature in brighter bloom.

    I've roused the laugh of the playful child,
      And tired it out in the sunny noon;
    All nature at my approach hath smiled,
      And I've made fond lovers seek the moon.

    For this is my life, my glorious reign,
      And I'll queen it well in my leafy bower;
    All shall be bright in my rich domain;
      I'm queen of the leaf, the bud and the flower.

    And I'll reign in triumph till autumn-time
      Shall conquer my green and verdant pride;
    Then I'll hie me to another clime
      Till I'm called again as a sunny bride.

CHARLIE'S CHRISTMAS.

Oh how cold and miserable everything is! Hardly a thought to be uppermost on Christmas eve
in the mind of a little school-boy; and yet it was that which filled the mind of Charlie Earle
on the Christmas eve of which I am going to tell you. Only a few hours before, he had been
as happy as any boy could be. Everybody was going home, and everybody was in the highest spirits
and full of the most delightful hopes of what the holidays would bring them; and now everybody
except Charlie has gone home, and he is left alone in the dreary school-room, knowing that
at any rate Christmas day, and maybe many other days, are to be spent away from home, and from
all the pleasant doings which he had pictured to himself and others only the very day before.

The coming of the post-bag had been scarcely noticed in the school-room that morning. So when
old Bunce, the butler, looked in at the door and said, "Master Earle is wanted in the doctor's
room," the boys all wondered, and Charlie's neighbor whispered to him, "Whatever can he want
you for, Earle?" The doctor's tale was soon told, and it was one which sent Charlie back to
the school-room with a very different face to the one with which he had left it. A letter had
come to Doctor West from Charlie's father, and in it a note from his mother to Charlie himself,
written the night before, and saying that a summons had come that very morning calling them
to Charlie's grandmother, who was very ill, and that they were starting for Scotland that night
and would be almost at their journey's end when Charlie got the news. The note said that Laura,
Charlie's sister, would go with them, but that they could not wait for Charlie himself, so
they had written to Mrs. Lamb, Charlie's old nurse, who lived about ten miles from Dr. West's,
and had asked her to take charge of him for a day or two, till more was known of his grandmother's
state and some better plan could be made for him. It was sad enough for Charlie to hear of
the illness of his kind old grandmother--sad enough to see the merry start of the other boys,
while he had to stay behind; but to have to think of Christmas day spent away from father and
mother, away from Laura and home, was excuse enough for a few bitter tears. But unpleasant
things come to an end as well as pleasant ones, and Charlie's lonely waiting in the school-room
came to its end, and he found himself that afternoon snugly packed into the Blackridge coach,
and forgetting his own troubles in listening to the cheery chatter of the other passengers,
and in looking at what was to be seen as the coach rolled briskly along the snow-covered road.
It was quite dark when they reached Blackridge, and Charlie looked out at the people gathered
round the door of the "Packhorse Inn," and a sudden fear filled his mind lest there should
be no one there to meet him; but he soon saw by the light at the inn door Nurse Lamb herself,
with her kind face looking so beaming that it seemed a little bit like really going home.

"Here, father," said Nurse Lamb to her jolly-looking husband; "here's Master Charlie, safe
and sound! You bring the luggage in the barrow while I take him home quick, for I am sure he
must be cold."

And so nurse bustled Charlie off down a lane and across a meadow, till they came to a wicket-gate,
beyond which stood the back of a low, deep-thatched cottage half buried in snow. On getting
round to the front the door was opened by a little girl, and nurse called out, "Here, Molly,
here we are;" adding, "Molly is my step-daughter, Master Charlie--the one I used to tell you
about before I was married, when we were down at Hastings."

When they got into the house, there was the kitchen with its rows of bright pewter plates,
its wide hearth and roaring fire, its hams hanging to the beams, all just as they had been
described in the days when nurse's new home at Blackridge Farm was a subject of never-ending
interest to the two children in Mrs. Earle's nursery.

After he had had a capital tea, Charlie was allowed to go round with the farmer to see that
the horses were all right for the night, Charlie carrying the lantern and feeling himself quite
a man as he followed the farmer into the stable. There was much coming and going at the farm
that evening, for was it not Christmas eve? and nurse was busy sending off gifts to neighbors
who were not so thriving as herself, and busy, too, in making preparations for the morrow.
Charlie meanwhile sat in the settle and made friends with Molly, who was about his own age
and knew much more, though she was only a girl, about dogs and rabbits and tadpoles than London-bred
Charlie. By and by they helped to stir the great plum-pudding, and dressed the kitchen and
parlor with evergreens, till nurse called them to come and hear the chimes.

And Charlie thought it very beautiful as he stood at the door and listened to the bells. And
as they stood there the wind wafted to them also the voices of the choir as they went on their
round through the village, singing their carols; and then Charlie went to bed with "Hark, the
herald angels sing!" ringing in his ears.

Next morning Charlie, as he ran down stairs, could hardly believe this was really Christmas
day, all was so unlike any Christmas he had known before; but in the kitchen he found one thing
like the Christmas mornings at home, for he found quite a little pile of parcels beside his
plate, containing the pretty gifts prepared by father and mother and Laura, and sent by them
to nurse, so that at any rate the little lad should not be robbed of this part of his Christmas
pleasures. There was a note, too, from mother, saying that she and father and Laura were safe
in Edinburgh, and that grandmother was better, and that she hoped to tell him in her next letter
when they and he should meet at home in London. Such a bright beginning was enough to make
all the rest of the day bright; and bright it was. Charlie found plenty to do till church-time,
as Molly showed him all the nooks and corners about the farm.

The old church, with its high pews and country congregation made Charlie feel that he must
be dreaming. Surely it could not be Christmas, but must be the autumn? and he and Laura and
everybody had come away from London for the holidays?

No; it was no dream. It was really Christmas; for there, round the pillars, were the holly-wreaths
with their red berries, and there, behind the chancel-screen, were the same Christmas texts
as in their church in London. When service was over, Charlie and Molly hurried home to help
Martha, the farm-girl, to have all in readiness for the Christmas dinner. But after dinner
there was not much sitting still--at any rate for Charlie; for who could think of sitting still
indoors, when outside there were a pond covered with ice and a farmyard full of horses and dogs?

Nor was the evening after tea without its pleasure. When the snow began to fall, and the doors
and windows were tightly closed, then a huge log was piled on the fire; and while Farmer and
Mrs. Lamb sat and talked before it in the parlor, Charlie and Molly had a fine game of romps
in the big kitchen with Martha; and when they were tired of that, they sat on the hearth and
roasted chestnuts, while nurse read a Christmas tale to them.

And here I must leave Charlie finishing his Christmas day, hoping that any who read this story
of it may agree with Charlie in thinking, when he laid his head on the pillow that night, that,
though it had been spent far from home, it had not been an unhappy day, after all.

MARCELLIN.

Marcellin, a young shepherd boy, who tended his father's flock upon the mountains, having penetrated
a deep gorge to search for one of his sheep which was missing, discovered in the thickest of
the forest a man lying upon the ground overcome with fatigue, and faint from want of food.

"My poor lad," said the man, "I am dying from hunger and thirst. Two days ago I came upon this
mountain to hunt. I lost my way, and I have passed two nights in the woods."

Marcellin drew some bread and cheese from his knapsack, and gave to the stranger.

"Eat," he said, "and then follow me. I will conduct you to an old oak tree, in the trunk of
which we shall find some water."

The food satisfied his hunger; then he followed Marcellin, and drank of the water, which he
found excellent. Afterwards the boy conducted him down the mountain, and pointed out the way
to the city.

Then the hunter said to the shepherd boy, "My good lad, you have saved my life. If I had remained
in the mountain another night, I should have died. I will show you my gratitude. Come with
me to the city. I am rich; and I will treat you as if you were my own son."

"No, sir," said Marcellin; "I cannot go with you to the city. I have a father and a mother
who are poor, but whom I love with all my heart. Were you a king, I would not leave my parents."

"But," said the hunter, "you live here in a miserable cabin with an ugly thatched roof; I live
in a palace built of marble, and surrounded with statues. I will give you drink in glasses
like crystal, and food upon plates of silver."

"Very likely," responded Marcellin; "but our house is not half as miserable as you suppose.
If it is not surrounded with statues, it is among fruit trees and trellised vines. We drink
water which we get from a neighboring fountain. It is very clear, though we do not drink from
crystal cups. We gain by our labor a modest living, but good enough. And if we do not have
silver ware in our house, we have plenty of flowers."

"Nonsense, my boy! Come with me," said the hunter; "we have trees and flowers in the city more
beautiful than yours. I have magnificent grounds, with broad alleys, with a flower garden filled
with the most precious plants. In the middle of it there is a beautiful fountain, the like
of which you never saw. The water is thrown upward in small streams, and falls back sparkling
into the great white marble basin. You would be quite happy to live there."

"But I am quite happy here," replied Marcellin. "The shade of our forests is at least as delicious
as that of your superb alleys. Our fields are running over with flowers. You can hardly step
without finding them under your feet. There are flowers around our cottage--roses, violets,
lilies, pansies. Do you suppose that our fountains are less beautiful than your little jets
of water? You should see the merry brooks bounding down over the rocks, and running away through
the flowery meadow."

"You don't know what you refuse," rejoined the hunter. "If you go into the city, you will be
put to school, where you can study all departments of art and science. There are theatres,
where skilful musicians will enchant your ears by harmony. There are rich saloons, to which
you will be admitted, to enjoy splendid fêtes. And since you so much love the country, you
shall pass your summer vacation with me in a superb chateau which I possess."

"Well, I am greatly obliged to you," replied the shepherd boy; "but I think I had better stop
with father and mother. I can learn everything useful in our village school. I am taught to
fear God, to honor my parents, and to imitate their virtues. I don't wish to learn anything
beyond that. Then your musicians, which you tell about, do they sing any better than the nightingale
or the golden robin? Then we have our concerts and our fêtes. We are right down happy when
we are all together on Sunday evening under the trees. My sister sings, while I accompany her
upon my flute. Our chants can be heard a long way off, and echo repeats them. And in the evening,
when we stay in the house, grandfather is with us. We love him so much because he is so good.
No, I will not leave my parents. I will not renounce their home, if it is humble. I cannot
go to the city with you."

The hunter saw that it was of no use to argue the point; so he said,--

"What shall I give you, then, to express my gratitude for your services? Take this purse, filled
with gold."

"What need have I of it? We are poor, but we want nothing. Besides, if I accept your money,
I should sell the little service I have been able to render. That would be wrong; my mother
would blame me for such conduct. She tells me that we ought always to assist those who are
in trouble and want without expecting pay for it."

"Generous boy! What shall I give you as a mark of my gratitude? You must accept something,
or I shall be greatly disappointed."

"Is it so?" asked Marcellin, playfully. "Then give me the cup which is suspended at your side--that
one on which is engraved a picture of some dogs pursuing a stag."

The hunter joyfully gave the cup to the happy shepherd boy, who, having once more indicated
the way which would lead to the city, bade him good day, and went back to his flock.

And the rich man returned to his splendid dwelling, having learned that it is the proper use
of the means we have, rather than wishing for greater, which brings happiness and contentment.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE LIFE OF SALVATOR ROSA.

There is in the museum at Florence a celebrated painting, which calls to mind a thrilling adventure
of Salvator Rosa when quite young.

The scene represents a solitude, very rugged and sublime--mountains upon every side, with their
tops covered with snow, while through the dark clouds in the sky a few straggling sunbeams
find their way to the valley. Upon the border of an immense cliff stands a group of men whose
costume denotes them to be brigands of the Apennines. Upon the very edge of the precipice,
erect and calm, is a young man, surrounded by the brigands, who are preparing to throw him
into the depths below. The chief is a short distance away, and seemingly about to give the
fatal signal. A few paces in advance stands a female, of strange beauty, waving her hand menacingly
towards the chief as if commanding that the young man's life be spared. Her manner, resolute
and imperious, the countenance of the chief, the grateful calmness of the prisoner, all seem
to indicate that the woman's order will be obeyed, and that the victim will be saved from the
frightful death with which he has been menaced.

This picture, as will be readily guessed, is the work of SALVATOR ROSA. Born at Arenella, near
Naples, in 1615, of poor parents, he was so admirably endowed by nature that, even in his boyhood,
he became a spirited painter, a good musician, and an excellent poet. But his tastes led him
to give his attention to painting.

Unfortunately, some severe satires which he published in Naples made him many enemies in that
city, and he was obliged to fly to Rome, where he took a position at once as a painter. Leaving
that city after a while, he went to Florence, and there found a generous encouragement and
many friends, and there his talent was appreciated by the world of art.

The environs of Florence afforded him superior advantages in developing his genius. The Apennines,
with their dark gorges, their picturesque landscapes, and their snow-clad peaks, pleased his
wild imagination. In their vast recesses he found his best inspirations and his most original
subjects. Often he wandered for days over the abrupt mountains, infested with bandits, to find
work for his ambitious pencil.

One day he had advanced farther than usual into the profound and dangerous solitudes. He sat
down near a torrent, and began to sketch a wild landscape before him. All of a sudden he saw,
at the summit of a rock near at hand, a man leaning upon his carbine, and apparently watching
him with great curiosity. A large hat, with stained and torn brim, covered his sun-burnt visage;
a leather belt bound his dark sack to his body, and gave support to a pistol and hunting-knife,
invariably carried by the brigands of the mountains. His black beard, thick and untidy, concealed
a portion of his face; but there could be no doubt that his dark glance was fixed upon the
stranger who came to invade his domain.

For almost any other but our hero, the sudden apparition of that wild and menacing figure would
have been good cause of terror. But Salvator was a painter, and a painter in love with his
art; and he had in that strange costume, that forbidding look, something so much in harmony
with the aspect of nature about him, that he at once made the man a subject of study.

"I mustn't lose him," he said; "he's an inhabitant of the country. He comes just in the nick
of time to complete my landscape; and his position is quite fine."

And, drawing tranquilly his pencil, he began to transfer the outlines of the brigand to his
album, when the stranger, coming a few paces nearer to him, said, in a rough voice,--

"Who are you, and what are you doing here?"

"Well, my good fellow, I come to take your portrait, if you'll hold still a bit," responded
the painter.

"Ah, you jest with me! Have a care," said the other, coming still nearer.

"No," replied Salvator, seriously; "I am a painter; and I wander over these mountains with
no other purpose but to admire these beautiful landscapes, and to sketch the most picturesque
objects."

"To sketch!" cried the brigand, with evident anger, hardly knowing what the word meant. "Do
you not know that these mountains belong to us? Why do you come here to spy us out?"

At these words he gave a shrill whistle, and three other men, clothed like himself, came towards
the spot from different directions.

"Seize this man!" he said to his companions; "he comes to observe us."

All resistance was useless. And so, after having tried in vain to prove his innocence, the
young man was surrounded and seized.

"March!" cried the man who had first met him. "You must talk with our chief."

The leader of these brigands was a man about forty years of age, named Pietratesta. His great
physical strength, his courage, and, more than all the rest, his energy, had made him a favorite
among his companions, and given him authority over them. Famous among the mountains for his
audacious crimes, condemned many times to an outlaw's death, pursued in vain by the officers
of the law, habituated for years to a life of adventure, pillage, and murder, he treated his
prisoners without pity or mercy. All who were unable to purchase their liberty by paying whatever
ransom he fixed, were put to death. He looked upon civilized people not as men, but as prizes.

As he saw the captive approach, he asked the usual question,--

"Who are you?"

"Salvator Rosa, a Neapolitan painter, now resident of Florence."

"O, a painter! A poor prize, generally. But you are famous, I hear; the prince is your friend.
Your pictures sell for very large prices. You must pay us ten thousand ducats."

"Ten thousand ducats, indeed! Where do you suppose I can get so much?"

"Well, as for that, if you haven't got the money, your friends must get it for you."

"But my friends are not rich."

"Ah, excuse me!" said the chief, smiling. "When one has a prince for a protector, he is always
rich."

"It is true that the prince is my patron; but he owes me nothing."

"No matter if he don't. He would not be deprived of such an artist as you for a paltry ten
thousand ducats."

"He pays me for my pictures; but he will not pay my ransom."

"He must," said the robber, emphatically; "so no more words. Ask your friends, if you prefer,
or whoever you will; but bring me ten thousand ducats, and that within a month; otherwise you
must die."

As the chief uttered these words, he walked away, leaving Salvator in the middle of the ground
which formed the camp.

During the short conversation two children came from one of the tents, being attracted by the
noise. Their little blond heads, curiously turned towards the captive, their faces, tanned
by the sun, but animated by the crimson of health and youth, and their picturesque costume
had attracted the attention of the painter. When the chief had gone away, he approached them,
and smiled. The children drew away abashed; then, reassured by the air of goodness which the
young man wore, they came nearer, and permitted him to embrace them.

"Are you going to live with us?" said the eldest, who was about eight years of age.

"I don't know, my little friend."

"O, I wish you would! It is so nice to stop in these mountains. There are plenty of beautiful
flowers, and birds' nests, too. I have three already; I will show them to you, and then we
will go and find some more. But what is that you have got under your arm?"

"It is my sketch-book."

"A sketch-book? What is a sketch-book?"

"It is what I carry my pictures in."

"Pictures? O, do let me see them!"

"Yes, indeed; here they are."

"What pretty pictures! O, mother, come and see! Here are mountains, and men, and goats. Did
you make them all?"

Attracted by the call of the child, a lady came out of the principal tent. She was yet young,
tall, and covered with a medley of garments from various costumes. Her face sparkled with energy,
and might have been called beautiful. She threw a sad glance at Salvator, and approached him
haughtily, as if to give an order. But seeing the two children busily looking over the sketch-book,
and observing the familiar way with which both treated their new acquaintance, she appeared
to change her manner somewhat, and began to look at the pictures herself, and to admire them.
At the end of half an hour the mother and the children seemed like old friends of Salvator Rosa.

The woman was the wife of the chief. A daughter of an honorable family, she married a young
man at Pisa, her native city, who proved to be captain of this band of robbers. She could not
well leave the company into which she had been betrayed; and so, with a noble self-denial,
she became resigned to her hard lot. An unwilling witness of the many crimes of her husband
and his companions, she suffered cruelly in her resignation. Yet her fidelity, her virtue,--things
rarely known, but sometimes respected among these mountain brigands,--had given her a moral
power over the men as well as over her husband. More than once she had used this means to temper
their ferocity, and obtain pardon for their unfortunate prisoners.

Just then one of the brigands came and brought to the prisoner the order from the chief that
he should write to his friends to obtain money for his ransom. The man was going, under a disguise,
to the city of Florence; and he offered to deliver any letters intrusted to his care. He indicated
the place where the ten thousand ducats must be left, so that Salvator might inform his correspondent.

Our hero had many devoted friends; but nearly all were artists like himself, and without fortune.
Nevertheless, he decided to write to one of them. He gave orders that all the pictures in his
studio should be sold. He hoped that the money which they would bring, together with what his
friends could advance to him, would amount to the sum demanded by the chief.

This done, Salvator easily persuaded himself that he should soon be set at liberty, and the
artist recovered his unconcern, and almost his usual good spirits. The country around him was
full of romantic studies for his pencil. He had, besides, found in the society of the children
of Pietratesta two charming companions. He instructed them in the elements of his art; and
his pupils, to both of whom the study was quite new, seemed never to grow tired of their task.

In a moment of good humor, he drew caricatures of each member of the band, which created a
great deal of amusement. Then he drew, with great care, the portraits of the two children.
This attention profoundly touched the heart of the mother, and her tender sympathy, almost
wasting among these unfeeling men, found a secret pleasure in rendering the captivity of the
young painter less unhappy and less hard. She conversed with him familiarly, and it gave her
great pleasure to see the care which he took to instruct her children.

So Salvator Rosa, to whom the band gave quite a considerable degree of liberty, never dreamed
of taking improper advantage of it. Thanks to his fancy and his recklessness as an artist,
he almost forgot that he was the prisoner of a cruel master, and that his life was in peril.

But the ransom, which he had sent for, came not. Whether the letters he had written failed
to reach their destination, or whether his friends were deaf to his request for assistance,
he received no answer. He wrote repeatedly, but always with the same result.

And so the months slipped by, and the chief began to grow impatient at the long delay. His
wife had more than once calmed his anger, and prevented any catastrophe. At length several
weeks went by, in which the expeditions of the band were unfruitful. The provisions were running
low, and Pietratesta saw in his captive one unprofitable mouth. Sivora, his wife, felt her
influence to be growing weaker and weaker under the increasing destitution and continued delay.

One day Pietratesta encountered his prisoner, and, addressing him in an irritated voice,--

"Well?" he said, as if his question needed no other explanation.

"Nothing yet," responded Salvator Rosa, sadly.

"Ah, this is too much!" cried the brigand. "I begin to think you are playing with me. But do
you know the price Pietratesta makes those pay who cross him?"

"Alas! I am far from trying to deceive you. You know that I have done all in my power to obtain
my ransom. I have written to various persons; your own men have taken my letters. You see that
it is not my fault."

"It is always the fault of prisoners when their ransom is not paid."

"Wait a little longer. I will write again to-day."

"Wait! wait! A whole year, month after month, has gone by, and you repeat the same old story.
A year--an age for me--I have waited. Do you think I have been making unmeaning threats? Do
you expect to abuse my patience with impunity? It has given out at last--the more so as," added
he, now that he felt his anger increasing, "I ought to have settled this affair a long while
ago. This is your last day, observe me."

At a sign from their chief, four bandits seized the young man, and bound him. As Salvator was
led away, he cast one sad look at the dwelling where he had passed many happy hours, and from
which he was going to his death. For a moment he stopped to say farewell to the children, who
were standing at the door crying and stretching out their little naked brown arms towards him.

A few moments later, Sivora, who had been gathering flowers in the mountains, returned home.
Observing that her husband, as well as Salvator, was absent, and her children in tears, she
guessed the painful truth.

"Where is Salvator?" she asked of the eldest.

"They have bound him, and carried him away," responded the child, still crying.

"Which way?"

"Down yonder," was the reply of the child, pointing with its finger in the direction of a rocky
cliff already too well known for its horrible scenes.

"Alas, wretched man!" exclaimed Sivora, almost frantically, as she comprehended the new crime
her husband was about to commit. She sat down for a moment, covered her face with her hands--a
prey to the most unspeakable anxiety. Then, rising suddenly, her eyes flashing with determination,--

"Come!" she said, resolutely; "come, my children. Perhaps we may yet be in time."

And, taking the hands of her little ones, who followed her with difficulty, but yet eagerly,
she darted away at a rapid pace in the direction taken by the brigands.

While the men were hurrying Salvator along, the chief maintained a profound silence. His band
followed him as dumb as slaves who go to execute the will of their master, which they know
is law. They soon arrived at the summit of a cliff, which overhung a yawning abyss beneath.
After having taken one look over the precipice, and examined the neighborhood rapidly, Pietratesta
cried, "Halt!" and the whole body came to a rest.

"There is just a quarter of an hour for you to live," he said, turning to his prisoner. "You
have time to die like a Christian. Make your prayer."

The young man hesitated for a moment, threw his agitated eyes around, then, kneeling on the
rock, he prayed earnestly. The men stood unmoved, as if they had been statues cut from stone.

Salvator rose, with a calm demeanor, and said, addressing the chief in a firm tone,--

"My life is in your hands, I know. You are going to kill me without any cause. I have prayed,"
he added, with a voice full of authority, "for the salvation of my soul, and repentance for
thine. God will judge us both. I am ready."

Immediately the brigands seized the young man, and hurried him towards the precipice. Already
they waited but the signal of their chief, already Pietratesta had given the fatal command,
when a cry was heard not many paces distant, which suspended the preparations.

"Stop!" exclaimed a harsh voice.

The bandits, astonished at the interruption, turned to see whence it came. A woman ran towards
them, her hair in disorder, her countenance pale and agitated, her dark eyes flashing with
determination. She held by their hands two children, who, with weeping eyes, were hastening,
with all the speed their young limbs could carry them, towards the precipice.

It was Sivora.

As she came forward the chief uttered an exclamation of disappointment and anger.

"Why do you come here?" he asked, in an irritated voice.

"You know well enough," responded Sivora, without any sign of intimidation. "What are you about
to do? What is the crime of this young man? What is the wrong he has committed? You know he
is innocent, and that it is not his fault that the price of his ransom has not been paid. Why
commit a useless crime? You have too many on your soul already," she added, in a low, sad voice.
"Since it is not too late, let the young man go. His ransom is not absolutely necessary. If
it was, would his death bring it to you? Remember with what care and solicitude he has treated
your children! with what patience he has instructed them in his art! See, they weep, as if
their hearts would break, at the wrong you would do their friend! It is they--it is I--who
ask clemency. You will not kill Salvator; you will pardon him for the love you bear your children."

As she said these words she pushed the two little blond heads into the arms of their father.

The brigands, hesitating, touched, without knowing why, struck with an involuntary respect
for the woman, remained immovable, with their eyes fixed upon their chief, as if waiting to
ascertain his wishes. He stood, brooding, nervous, his eyes bent upon the ground, hardly daring
to look upon Sivora, at once his suppliant and accuser, a prey to violent emotions. The authority
of that respected voice, and the irritation at being deprived of his revenge,--the invincible
love he had for the woman, and the shame of giving way before his men,--all these warring considerations,
the effects of which were plainly to be seen on his swarthy face, spoke of the severe contest
going on within.

At length his evil genius got the control.

"What do I care for his solicitude and his tenderness?" he said, in a coarse voice. "He would
forget all as soon as he should get out of our hands; and he would, no doubt, send the police
after us if we should let him go. I know what the promises of captives are worth. Besides,
I command here, I alone, and I will be obeyed. Take away these children; and you, comrades,
despatch your your prisoner."

"Ah! is it so?" exclaimed Sivora, in a piercing voice, throwing herself before the bandits,
who were pushing their victim towards the chasm. "Then I will beg no more; I command now. Listen
to me well, for these are my last words. You know with what devotion, with what resignation,
I have supported this bitter life which you brought me to among these mountains. The isolation,
the sorrow, the shame, I have endured for thee. I have never complained. I hoped, after such
sacrifices, you would at length listen to my words, and renounce your bad life. But since you
do not care for my devotion, since I am nothing to you, listen well to my words, Pietratesta.
If you dare to commit this odious crime, look for a mother for your children, for, with your
victim, you will slay your wife!"

So saying, she advanced close to the brink of the cliff, over which she could spring at the
signal from her husband.

Salvator, motionless and rooted to the spot, in silence, full of anxiety, observed this strange
scene. The robbers, hardened by crime, for the first time hesitated at the command of their
chief, and fixed their eyes upon the beautiful woman to whom despair added a new charm. They
quailed before her authority, and stood as motionless as statues.

Pietratesta, overwhelmed by the recollections which the woman's words awakened, alarmed at
her threats and her resolution, hung his head, like a guilty wretch before a just judge, while
Sivora, with wild countenance, piercing voice, and imperial manner, her long black hair loosely
falling upon her shoulders, with her arms extended towards the abyss, almost resembled an ancient
goddess, who suddenly appears at the moment of crime, arrests the homicidal arm, and subjects
the criminal to punishment. There was in her figure an imposing grandeur, before which the
rude men, for an instant recalled to themselves, felt humiliated and condemned.

Astounded by that firmness and devotion, ashamed of his violence towards the woman who was
living a life of outrage, the chief, after some moments of moody silence, said, in an altered
voice,--

"You wish it! He is free!"

Salvator threw himself upon his knees before his preserver, covered her hand with kisses and
tears, and pressed, with transport, the two children in his arms. Completely wild with happiness
and gratitude, he abandoned himself to the buoyancy of his generous nature, when Sivora said
to him, in a whisper,--

"Go! go quickly! The tiger is only sleeping!"

They put a bandage over the eyes of the young man, so that he might not see the path by which
he descended from the mountains, and two of the brigands then conducted him to the highway
which led to the city.

Hardly had he entered Florence, yet sad from the recollection of the scene in which he came
near being a victim, when the young painter hastily sketched the principal details; and, some
time after, the picture of which we have spoken was composed, and hangs this day in the museum
at Naples, admired and pointed out to all visitors.

                                                    L. D. L.

WE SHOULD HEAR THE ANGELS SINGING.

    If we only sought to brighten
      Every pathway dark with care,
    If we only tried to lighten
      All the burdens others bear,
    We should hear the angels singing
      All around us, night and day;
    We should feel that they were winging
      At our side their upward way!

                             KATE CAMERON.

MY LITTLE HERO.

    "How we wish that we knew a hero!"
      Say the children, pressing round;
    "Will you tell us if such a wonder
      In London streets can be found?"

    I point from my study-window
      At a lad who is passing by:
    "My darlings, there goes a hero;
      You will know his oft-heard cry."

    "'Tis the chimney-sweep, dear father,
      In his jacket so worn and old;
    What can he do that is brave and true,
      Wandering out in the cold?"

    Says Maudie, "I thought that a hero
      Was a man with a handsome face."
    "And I pictured him all in velvet dressed,
      With a sword," whispered little Grace.

    "Mine is only a 'sweeper,' children,
      His deeds all unnoticed, unknown;
    Yet I think he is one of the heroes
      God sees and will mark for his own.

    "Out there he looks eager and cheerful,
      No matter how poorly he fares;
    No sign that his young heart is heavy
      With the weight of unchildish cares.

    "Home means to him but a dingy room,
      A father he shudders to see;
    Alas for the worse than neglected sons
      Who have such a father as he!

    "And a mother who lies on a ragged bed,
      So sick and worn and sad;
    No friend has she but this one pale boy--
      This poor little sweeper-lad,

    "So rough to others, and all unskilled,
      Yet to her most tender and true,
    Oft waking with patient cheerfulness
      To soothe her the whole night through.

    "He wastes no time on his own scant meals,
      But goes forth with the morning sun;
    Never a moment is wasted
      Till his long day's work is done.

    "Then home to the dreary attic
      Where his mother lies lonely all day,
    Unheeding the boys who would tempt him
      To linger with them and play.

    "Because she is helpless and lonely,
      He is doing a hero's part;
    For loving and self-denying
      Are the tests of a noble heart."

ROBIN REDBREAST.

    Robin, Robin Redbreast,
      O, Robin, dear!
    And what will this poor Robin do?
      For pinching days are near.

    The fireside for the cricket,
      The wheat-stack for the mouse,
    When trembling night winds whistle,
      And moan all round the house.
    The frosty way like iron,
      The branches plumed with snow--
    Alas! in winter, dead and dark,
      Where can poor Robin go?
      Robin, Robin Redbreast,
        O, Robin dear!
      And a crumb of bread for Robin,
        His little heart to cheer.

HOW SWEETIE'S "SHIP CAME IN."

A CHRISTMAS STORY.

It will be a real honest story--of how Christmas came to a poor cold home, and made it bright,
and warm, and glad. A very poor home it was, up three flights of worm-eaten, dirt-stained stairs,
in the old gray house that stood far up a narrow, crooked alley, where the sun never shone
except just a while in the middle of the day. He tried hard to brighten up the place a little,
but the tall houses all about prevented him. Still he slanted a few golden beams even into
that wretched home away up under the eaves; for though the few small panes of glass in the
narrow windows had been mostly broken out, and their places filled with boards nailed tight
to keep out the wintry winds, and rain, and snow, still there were some left through which
a feeble ray did sometimes creep and make glad the hearts of the children. Five fatherless
children lived with their mother in that old garret. Night and day the mother sewed, taking
scarcely any rest, and yet found it hard to keep all the little toes and knees covered, and
could get only the poorest food for the five hungry mouths. The thought that, work never so
hard, she could not earn enough to give them one hearty, satisfying meal, made her heart ache.

Three boys and two girls, in one old naked room, with only their mother to care for them, and
she so poor, that for years she had not had a new gown, or a new bonnet! Yet she liked pretty
new clothes, as well as any one ever did, I know.

Of these five little folks, the oldest was Harry, the newsboy; then came Katie, and Willie,
and Fred, and, last of all, wee Jennie.

Though Harry was the oldest, yet he was not very old. Just twelve--a thin, white little fellow,
with eyes that always looked as if they wanted more. More what? Well, more sunshine; more warm
clothes, and bright, hot fires, and, O, very much more to eat! Sometimes he would make fifty
cents in a day, selling newspapers, and then he would hurry joyfully home, thinking of the
hungry little mouths it would help to fill. But some days he would hardly earn ten cents the
whole long day. Then he would go slowly and sadly along, wishing all sorts of things--that
he could take home as much meat as he could carry to the little ones who had not eaten meat
for so long they had almost forgotten how it tasted; or that the gentlemen, who owned the clothing
stores which he was passing, would say to him, "Come in, my little fellow, and help yourself
to as many warm clothes as you want for yourself and your little brothers at home;" or that
he could find a heap of money--and his mouth would water, thinking of the good things which
he could buy and take home with some of it.

The other children always knew whether it had been a good or bad day with Harry, by the way
he came up the stairs. If he came with a hop, skip, and a jump, they knew it meant a good day;
and a good day for Harry was a good evening for them all.

Though Katie was really the name of the second child, she hardly ever was called so; for her
mother, and the children, and all the neighbors, called her Sweetie, she was so good and so
thoughtful for others, so sweet-tempered and kind. She did everything so gently that none of
them could ever love her half as much as she deserved. Though only ten years old, and very
small and pale, she did every bit of the housework, and kept the ugly old room and its faded
furniture so neat, that it seemed almost home-like and pretty to them all. It was happiness
enough for the little ones to get her first kiss when she came back from an errand, to sit
by her at table, and, above all, to lie closest to her at night. Willie, and Fred, and Jennie,
all slept with her on a straw bed in the corner; and they used to try to stretch her little
arms over them all, so that even the one farthest off might feel the tips of her fingers, so
dearly did they love her.

They had once owned more than one bedstead, and many other comfortable things besides; but
when their father was killed at the great factory where he worked, their mother was obliged
to sell almost everything to get enough money to pay for his funeral, and to help support her
little family; so that now she had only a narrow wooden settee for her bed, while Harry stretched
himself on a couple of chairs, and the rest slept all together in the bed on the floor. Poor
as they were, they were not very unhappy. Almost every night, when their mother took the one
dim candle all to herself, so that she could see to sew neatly, Sweetie would amuse the other
children by telling them beautiful stories about the little flower people, and the good fairies,
and about Kriss Kringle--though how she knew about him I can't tell, for he never came down
their chimney at Christmas.

"And, when my ship comes in," Sweetie used to say, "I'll have the tallest and handsomest Christmas
tree, filled to the top with candies and toys, and lighted all over with different-colored
candles, and we'll sing and dance round it. Let's begin now, and get our voices in tune." Then
they would all pipe up as loud as they could, and were as happy as if they half believed Sweetie's
ship was ready to land.

But there came a hard year for poor needle-women: it was the year I am writing about, and Sweetie's
mother found it almost impossible to get even the necessaries of life. Her children's lips
were bluer, their faces more pinched, and thin, threadbare clothes more patched than ever.
Sweetie used to take the two boys, and hunt in the streets for bits of coal and wood; but often,
the very coldest days, they would have no fire. It was very hard to bear, and especially for
the poor mother, who still had to toil on, though she was so chilled, and her hands so numbed,
she could hardly draw her needle through her work; and for Harry, who trudged through the streets
from daylight until the street lamps were lighted.

The day before Christmas came. People were so busy cooking Christmas dainties that they did
not stop to sift their cinders very carefully, and Sweetie and the boys had picked up quite
a large bag full of half-burnt coal in the alleys, and were carrying it home as carefully as
if it were a great treasure--as, indeed, it was to them. Being very tired, they sat down to
rest on the curbstone in front of an elegant mansion. One of the long windows was open.

"Let's get close up under the window," said Sweetie. "I guess it's too warm inside, and may
be we shall get some of the heat. O! O! don't it smell good?" she cried, as the savory odors
of the Christmas cooking stole out upon the air.

"What is it, Sweetie?" whispered Willie.

"Coffee," said Sweetie, "and turkeys, and jelly, perhaps."

"I wish I had some," sighed Freddy, "I'm so cold and hungry!"

"Poor little man! he must come and sit in Sweetie's lap; that will make him warmer," said his
sister, wrapping her shawl around him.

"Yes; that's nice," said the little fellow, hugging her tight.

Mr. Rogers, the owner of this fine house, had lost his wife and two dear children within the
year. He lived here alone, with his servants, and was very desolate. When the children stopped
under his window, he was lying on a velvet sofa near it, and, lifting himself up, he peeped
out from behind the curtains just as Fred crept into his sister's arms; and he heard all they said.

"When your ship comes in, Sweetie, will it have turkeys and jellies in it?" said Willie, leaning
against her.

"Yes, indeed," said Sweetie. "There will be turkeys almost as big as Jennie, and a great deal
fatter."

"But it's so long coming, Sweetie; you tell us every time it will come, and it never comes at all."

"O, no, Freddy. I don't ever say it will come, but it's nice to think what we would do if it
should come--isn't it?"

"We'd buy a great white house, like this--wouldn't we, Sweetie?"

"No, Willie. I'd rather buy that nice little store over by the church, that's been shut up
so long, and has FOR SALE on the door. I'd furnish it all nice, and fill the shelves with beautiful
goods, and trimmings for ladies' dresses, and lovely toys. It shows so far that everybody would
be sure to buy their Christmas things there. It's just the dearest little place, with two cosy
rooms back of the shop, and three overhead; and I'd put flour and sugar, and tea and coffee,
and all sorts of goodies, in the kitchen cupboard, and new clothes for all of us in the closets
up stairs. Then I'd kindle a fire, and light the lamps, and lock the door, and go back to the
dreary old garret once more--poor mother would be sitting there, sad and sober, as she always
is now, and I would say to her, 'Come, mother, before you light the candle, Jennie and I want
you to go with us, and look at the lovely Christmas gifts in the shop windows.' Then she'd
say, sorrowfully, 'I don't want to see them, dear; I can't buy any of them for you, and I don't
want to look at them.' But I'd tease her till I made her go; and I'd leave Harry, who would
know all about it beforehand, to lock up the dismal old room, and bring all the rest of you
over to the new house. You'd get there long before we did, and the light would be streaming
out from the little shop windows--O, so bright! 'Mother,' I'd say, 'let's go in here, and buy
the cotton you wanted;' and when I got her in, I'd shut the door quick, and dance up and down,
and say, 'Dear mother. Sweetie's ship's come in, and brought you this new home, and everything
comfortable; and Sweetie will tend the shop, and you needn't sew any more day and night, for
it's going to be--' 'A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year for us--every one!' Harry and all
of you would shout, and our dear mother would cry for joy."

"Will it come to pass soon, Sweetie?" asked both the boys at once.

"Not very, I'm afraid," answered Sweetie, in a subdued tone; but, when she saw their look of
disappointment, she brightened up in a moment, and added, "It'll be all the better, when it
does come, for waiting so long--but look here! To-night is Christmas Eve, and we've got coal
enough here to make a splendid fire. We won't light it till dark, and then it will last us
all the evening. And I've got a great secret to tell you: Harry made a whole dollar yesterday,
and mother is going to give us each three big slices of fried mush, and bread besides, for
supper; and, after supper, I'll tell you the prettiest story you ever heard, and we'll sing
every song we know, and I guess we'll have a merry Christmas if nobody else does."

"I wish it was Christmas all the time," said Freddy, faintly.

"Christ was born that day," said Sweetie, softly, "and that makes it best of all."

"Yes," said Willie; "the dear Lord who came from Heaven and, for our sakes, became poor, and
had not where to lay his head, not even a garret as good as ours--"

"I know," said Freddy; "he was born in a manger, and a beautiful star shined right over it.
I can sing a hymn about it."

Then they picked up their bag, and started for home, gay as larks over the prospect of the
treat they were to have that night--fried mush and a fire! that was all, you know.

Mr. Rogers, concealed by the heavy silk curtains, had heard every word they said, and his eyes
were full of tears. He rang for his servant.

"Harris," said he, when the man came in, "follow those children, find out where they live,
and what their neighbors say of the family."

When he was left alone again, he began to think,--

"Rich as I am, I have never yet done any great good to anybody. Who knows but God may have
sent those children under my window to teach me that, instead of my own lost darlings, he means
me to care for these and other suffering little ones who live in the lanes and alleys of this
great city!"

Harris soon came back, and told his master what he had learned about the circumstances of the
family; and he added,--

"Everybody calls the oldest girl Sweetie, and they do say she's as good as gold."

Mr. Rogers went out, and, before night, had bought the little corner store, for which Sweetie
had longed. Then, calling his servants together, he related what he had overheard the children
say, and told them how anxious he was to grant Sweetie's wish, and let her take her mother
to her new home on Christmas Day.

"But I cannot do it," said Mr. Rogers, "unless you are willing to help me work on Christmas
Eve, for there is a great deal to be done."

No one could refuse to aid in so good a cause; and besides, Mr. Rogers was always so considerate
of his servants that they were glad to oblige him. They all went to work with a will, and soon
the little house and store were put in perfect order.

There were ribbons, laces, buttons, needles, pins, tapes, and, indeed, all sorts of useful
things in the store. In the cellar were coal and wood, two whole hams, a pair of chickens,
and a turkey. The kitchen pantry was stocked with sugar and flour. There was one barrel of
potatoes, and another of the reddest apples. Up stairs the closets and bureaus were bursting
with nice things to wear, not quite made into garments, but ready to be made, as soon as Sweetie
and her mother got time.

So rapidly and so completely was everything arranged, that it seemed as if one of those good
fairies, of whom Sweetie had so often told the children, had been at work.

"The money this has cost me," thought Mr. Rogers, "will make a family of six happy, and do
them good all the rest of their lives. I am glad the thought has come to my heart to celebrate
Christ's birthday in so pleasant a way."

Late in the afternoon he picked his way through the dull, dirty alley to the old gray house
where Sweetie lived. As he went up the worn and dusty stairway, he heard the children singing
their Christmas songs.

"Poor little things!" said he; and the tears stood in his eyes. "Happy even in this miserable
place, while I know so many surfeited with luxuries, and yet pining and discontented!"

Harry jumped to open the door as he knocked; and Mr. Rogers, entering, apologized to the children's
mother for his intrusion by saying he had come to ask a favor.

"It is but little we can do for any one, sir," replied Mrs. Lawson; "but anything in our power
will be cheerfully done."

"Even if I propose to carry off this little girl of yours for a while?" he asked; but, seeing
the troubled look in the other children's faces, he hastened to explain.

"The truth is," said he, "having no little folks of my own, I thought I'd try and make other
people's happy to-day; so I set out to get up a Christmas tree; but I find I don't know how
to go to work exactly, and I want Sweetie to help me."

He spoke so sadly when he said he had no children of his own, that Sweetie could not refuse to go.

"O, yes, sir," said she; "I'll go; that is, if I may come back this evening--for I couldn't
disappoint Freddy and all of them, you know!"

"They shan't be disappointed, I promise you," said Mr. Rogers, as he took her down stairs.

"Why, I never was in a carriage in all my life," said Sweetie, as he lifted her into his beautiful
clarence, and sat down beside her.

"I shouldn't wonder if you should ride in a carriage pretty often now," said Mr. Rogers, "for
your ship's coming in."

Sweetie couldn't tell whether she was in a dream or not. Half crying, half laughing, her face
flushed with surprise, she asked,--

"How did you know?"

"Know what?" said her friend, enjoying her bewilderment.

"Why," she answered, "about the way I keep up the children's spirits, and make them forget
they are hungry and cold, while I tell them about my ship coming in?"

"A little bird told me," said he, and then was quiet.

Sweetie did not like to ask any more; so she sat quite still, leaning back in one corner of
the carriage, among the soft, crimson cushions, and watched the people in the street, thinking
how happy she was, and how strange it was that little Katie Lawson should be riding with a
grand gentleman in a splendid carriage!

Suddenly, with a whirl and a turn, they stopped before a house. Mr. Rogers lifted her out,
and led her up the broad steps; and she found he was taking her into the beautiful white house,
under the windows of which she had sat with Willie and Fred the day before.

"Now," said Mr. Rogers, rolling a comfortable arm-chair for Sweetie in front of a glowing fire,
"while you are getting warm, and eating your dinner, I am going to tell you about my Christmas
tree, and how your ship came in."

A little table was brought in, and set between them, filled with so many delicacies, that Sweetie's
head grew dizzy at the sight. She thought of her little hungry brothers and sister, and would
rather not have eaten, but Mr. Rogers made her.

"My little girl," said he, finally, "never forget this: God always rewards a faithful heart.
If he seems to be a long time without caring for his children, he never forgets or forsakes them."

Then he told her that he had overheard her conversation with her brothers under his window,
and that God had suddenly put it into his heart to take care of some of the poor and fatherless
in that great city. "And I am going to begin with Sweetie," said he, very tenderly; "and this
is the way her ship shall come in. She shall have a new home to give to her mother for a Christmas
present, and the boys shall sing their Christmas hymns to-night in the bright little parlor
of the corner store, instead of the dingy old garret; and here are the deeds made out in Katie
Lawson's own name, and nobody can take it away from her. But come, little woman," he added,--for
Sweetie was sobbing for joy, and could not thank him,--"go and wash your face, for the horses
are tired of standing in the cold, and we must go and fetch the boys, or I shall never get
my Christmas tree set up."

An old lady, with a face beaming with kindness,--it was Mr. Rogers's housekeeper,--then took
Sweetie, and not only washed her tear-stained cheeks, but curled her soft brown hair, and put
on her the loveliest blue dress, with boots to match. All the time she was dressing her, Sweetie,
who could not believe her senses, kept murmuring,--

"It's only a dream; it's too good to be true; the boys won't believe it, I know; it's just
like a fairy story, and, of course, it's only pretending."

"No, indeed," said the old lady; "it's really true, my dear, and I hope you'll be so grateful
and kind to Mr. Rogers that he won't be so lonely as he has been without his own dear little
children."

Sweetie could hardly realize her own good fortune; and, when she went down into the parlor,
she burst into tears again, saying,--

"O, sir, I can't believe it. I am so happy!"

"So am I, Sweetie," said Mr. Rogers; and really it was hard to tell which was the happier--it
is always so much more blessed to give than to receive. Together they rode to the new home,
and laughed and cried together as they went all over it. After they had been up stairs, and
down stairs, and in my lady's chamber, as Mr. Rogers said, he put her into the carriage again.

"James," said he to the coachman, "you are under this young lady's orders to-night, and must
drive carefully."

Then, kissing Sweetie, he put the key of her new home into her hand, and, telling her he should
want her help to-morrow about his Christmas tree, he bade her good night.

James drove Sweetie home, for the last time, to the dilapidated old house. She ran up stairs,
Freddy said afterwards, "just as Harry always did when he'd had a good day." "Mother and children,"
said she, "Mr. Rogers, the kind gentleman who was here, has sent me back in his carriage to
take you all to see something beautiful he has been showing me. Harry, you be the gentleman
of the house, and hand mother and Jennie to the carriage, and I'll come right along." She stopped
long enough--this good child, who, even in her own good fortune, did not forget the misfortunes
of others--to run into the next room, where an old woman lived, who was a cripple, and whose
daughter supported her by sewing.

"Mrs. Jones," said she, hurriedly, "a kind gentleman has given us a new home, and we are going
to it to-night, never to come back here to live any more. Our old room, with the rent paid
for a year, and all there is in it, I want you to take as a Christmas present from Sweetie;
and I wish you a Happy, happy New Year, and please give this to Milly;" and, slipping a five-dollar
bill, which Mr. Rogers had given her, into the old woman's hand, she ran out, and jumped into
the carriage. The street lamps blinked at them, like so many stars, as they rolled along, and
the boys and Jennie screamed with delight; but Sweetie sat quite still.

James knew where to stop. Sweetie got out first, and ran and unlocked the door of the little
corner store. When they were all inside, and before any one had time to ask a question, Sweetie
threw her arms about her mother's neck.

"Mother," she cried, "Sweetie's ship's come in; but it never would have come if it had not
been for Mr. Rogers; and it's brought you this pretty house and shop for your own, and, please
God, we'll all have--"

"A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!" shouted Willie, ending her sentence just as she had
ended the story the day before.

"And all the better," said Fred, who remembered too, "because Christ was born that day."

Mrs. Lawson, overwhelmed with joy, fainted. She soon recovered, however, though Sweetie insisted
on her lying on the soft lounge before the fire, while she set the table. How pretty it looked,
with its six purple and white plates, and cups and everything to match! How they did eat! How
happy they were!

"Now," said Mrs. Lawson, when the dishes were washed, and they all sat round the fire, "my
little Sweetie, whose patience, and courage, and cheerfulness have kept up the hearts of the
rest of us, and proved the ship that has brought us this cargo of comforts, you must tell us
your Christmas story before we go to bed."

So Sweetie told them all Mr. Rogers had said and done for her. They were so excited they sat
up very late, and happiness made them sleep so soundly, that they did not wake till the sun
was shining brightly into the little shop. People began to come in very early, to make little
purchases. One lady bought a whole dollar's worth of toys, which made them feel as if they
were full of business already.

Later in the forenoon, Mr. Rogers sent for Harry and Sweetie to come and help dress his Christmas
tree; and Christmas night his parlor was filled with poor children, for each of whom some useful
gift hung on the tree. Milly was there by Sweetie's invitation, and Mr. Rogers sent her home
in his carriage, with the easiest chair that money could buy for her old lame mother. The tears
filled his eyes as Milly thanked him again and again for all his kindness; and, as he shut
the door after the last one, he said,--

"Hereafter I will make it always a Merry Christmas for God's needy ones."

I am sure he did, for he had Sweetie always near him. He used to call her his "Christmas Sweeting;"
and then she would laugh, and say he was her "Golden Sweeting."

What is better than gold he gave the family: he found patrons for Mrs. Lawson, and customers
for the shop, and placed Harry in a mercantile house, where he soon rose to be head clerk.
The other children he put at school. Sweetie he never would let go very far out of his sight.
He had her thoroughly and usefully educated, and no less than her mother, and brothers, and
sister, did he bless the day when "Sweetie's ship came in"--

    A ship which brought for every day
      A welcome hope, an added joy,
    A something sweet to do or say,
      And hosts of pleasures unalloyed,

    Its cargo, made of pleasant cares,
      Of daily duties to be done,
    Of smiles and laughter, songs and prayers,
      The glad, bright life of Happy Ones.

                                             MARGARET FIELD.

NOTHING TO DO.

    I have sailed my boat and spun my top,
      And handled my last new ball;
    I trundled my hoop till I had to stop,
      And I swung till got a fall;
    I tumbled my books all out of the shelves,
      And hunted the pictures through;
    I've flung them where they may sort themselves,
      And now--I have nothing to do.

    The tower of Babel I built of blocks
      Came down with a crash to the floor;
    My train of cars ran over the rocks--
      I'll warrant they'll run no more;
    I have raced with Grip till I'm out of breath;
      My slate is broken in two,
    So I can't draw monkeys. I'm tired to death
      Because I have nothing to do.

    I can see where the boys have gone to fish;
      They bothered me, too, to go,
    But for fun like that I hadn't a wish,
      For I think it's mighty "slow"
    To sit all day at the end of a rod
      For the sake of a minnow or two,
    Or to land, at the farthest, an eel on the sod:
      I'd rather have nothing to do.

    Maria has gone to the woods for flowers,
      And Lucy and Rose are away
    After berries. I'm sure they've been out for hours;
      I wonder what makes them stay?
    Ned wanted to saddle Brunette for me,
      But riding is nothing new;
    "I was thinking you'd relish a canter," said he,
      "Because you have nothing to do."

    I wish I was poor Jim Foster's son,
      For he seems so happy and gay,
    When his wood is chopped and his work all done,
      With his little half hour of play;
    He neither has books nor top nor ball,
      Yet he's singing the whole day through;
    But then he is never tired at all
      Because he has nothing to do.

TWO "GENTLEMEN IN FUR CLOAKS."

This is the name given to the bears in Kamschatka by the Laplanders, who think they will be
offended if they are called by their real name; and we may give the same name to the bears
in the picture. They are Polar bears, who live in the seas round the North Pole, and fine white
fur coats they have of their own. They are white on purpose, so that they may not be seen easily
among all the snow and ice in which they live. The head of the Polar bear is very long and
flat, the mouth and ears are small in comparison with other bears, the neck is long and thick,
and the sole of the foot very large. Perhaps you will wonder how the bear manages to walk on
the ice, as nobody is very likely to give him skates or snow-boots. To be sure, he has strong,
thick claws, but they would not be of much use--they would only make him slip on the hard ice--but
the sole of the foot is covered nearly all over with thick, woolly hair, so the bear walks
as safely as old ladies do when they wrap list round their boots.

The Polar bear likes to eat fish, though he will eat roots and berries when he can get no better,
and he is a very good swimmer; he can dive, too, and make long leaps in the water. If he wants
a boat, he has only to get on a loose piece of ice, and then he can float about at his ease.

This is a full-grown bear, of course. Young bears cannot do all these things; they have to
stay with their mothers on shore, where they eat seals and seaweed; the seaweed is their vegetable,
I suppose. When the young bears travel and get tired, they get on their mother's back, and
ride there quite safely, whether in the water or on land.

Bears are very fond of their young, and will do anything to defend them. There is a story told
of a poor mother-bear and her two cubs which is almost too sad to tell, but it will make us
think kindly of the bear, so I will tell it to you.

Years ago a ship which had gone to the North Pole to make discoveries got fixed tight in the
ice; one morning, while the ship was still unable to get loose, a man at the lookout gave warning
that three bears were coming across the ice toward the ship. The crew had killed a walrus a
few days before, and no doubt the bears had smelled it. The flesh of the walrus was roasting
in a fire on the ice, and two of the bears ran eagerly to it, dragged out the bits that were
not burnt, and began to eat them; they were the cubs, but were almost as large as their mother.

The sailors threw some more of the flesh they had on board on to the ice. These the old bear
fetched; and putting them before her cubs, she divided them, giving them each a large piece,
and only keeping a small bit for herself. When she came to fetch the last piece the sailors
shot at the cubs, killing them; they also wounded the mother, but not mortally; the poor mother
never thought of herself, only of her cubs. They were not quite dead, only dying, and she crawled
to where they lay, with the lump of meat she had fetched, and put it down before them, as she
had done the first time. When she found they did not eat, she took hold first of one, then
of the other, and tried to lift them up, moaning pitifully all the time, as if she thought
it would be of no use. Then she went a little way off and looked back. But the cubs were dead
now, and could not move, so she went back to them and began to lick their wounds. Once more
she crawled away from them, and then again came back, and went round and round them, pawing
them and moaning. At last she seems to have found out that they were dead; and turning to the
ship, she raised her head and uttered a loud growl of anger and despair. The cruel sailors
fired at her in reply, and she fell between her poor dead cubs, and died licking their wounds.

CHARLIE'S ESCAPE.

I have some boy-cousins living in the country of whom I think a great deal. They write me letters
quite often. I can hardly tell whose letters give me the most pleasure, the "big boys'," who
write me about their school, their colts and calves, their good times on the holidays, or the
little printed letters I get from the "small boys," telling me how many chickens they have
and that they love me. I am sure I love them all, and hope they will grow to be good, true men.

Charlie is one of the "big boys." Not very big, either--just thirteen years old, and rather
small and slight for his years. A few weeks ago a neighbor of his father's was going away,
and got Charlie to do "the chores" for him during his absence--feed the young cattle, milk
the cow and keep things in order about the barn. Charlie is an obliging boy, so he performed
his task faithfully. If I had time, boys, I would just like to stop here and give you a little
lecture on faithfulness, with Charlie for a model, for he is a "faithful boy." But I want to
tell my story. For two or three days Charlie went each morning to his neighbor's barn, and
after milking the cow turned all the creatures to pasture, and every night drove them home
again. One morning, as he stood by the bars waiting for them all to pass out, a frisky year-old
calf--"a yearling" the farmers call them--instead of going orderly over the bars, as a well-disposed
calf should, just gave a side jump and shook her horns at Charlie. "Over with you!" called
Charlie, and waved his hand at her. Miss Yearling either fancied this an insult or an invitation
to single combat, for she again lowered her head and ran at Charlie, who had no stick, and
so thought best to run from the enemy. He started for the stable door, but in his hurry and
fright he could not open it, and while fumbling at the latch the creature made another attack.
Charlie dodged her again, and one of her horns pierced the door nearly an inch. Again she ran
at him, and with her nose "bunted" him off his feet. Charlie was getting afraid now, and called
out to the folks in the house, "Oh, come and help me!" and right then he bethought him of something
he had read in his father's "Agriculturist" about a boy in similar danger, who saved himself
by grasping the cow's horns that had attacked him. So just as the yearling was about to try
again if she could push him over, he took fast hold of each horn. But his situation was getting
very unpleasant, for he was penned up in a corner, with the barn behind him, a high fence on
one side and the now angry heifer in front. He had regained his feet, but was pushed and staggered
about, for he was fast losing his strength. No wonder his voice had a quiver in it as he again
shouted as loud as he could, "Oh, do come quick!" The lady in the house was busy getting breakfast,
and heard no sound. A lady-visitor in one of the chambers heard the first call, but thought
it only boys at play. By and by the distressed shout again smote her ears, and this time she
heard the words, "Help me!" She ran down stairs to the housekeeper, who opened the outside
door and listened. Charlie's voice was weak and faint now, and the fear came to the lady that
he had fallen into the barn cellar. She ran quickly to the great door of the barn. "Where are
you, Charlie?" "Come to the stable door," answered back a faint, trembling voice. She quickly
ran through the barn to that door, but she could not open it at first, for the heifer had pushed
herself around till she stood broadside against the door. But the lady pushed hard and got
the door open a little way, and seizing the big stable broom hit the naughty animal two or
three heavy whacks that made her move around; and as soon as she opened the door wide, Charlie
let go her horns, and she (the heifer), not liking the big broom-handle, turned and ran off
as fast as her legs could go. The lady helped Charlie up and into the house, for he could hardly
stand. He was bruised and lame, and the breath had almost left him. But after resting a while
and taking some good warm drink, he tried to walk home; and though the lady helped him, he
found it hard work, for he was so sore and bruised. Charlie's mother was frightened enough
to see her boy come home leaning on their neighbor's arm and looking so pale. She helped him
undress and lie down, and then she did just what your mother, little reader-boy, would do if
you had such an escape as Charlie's. She put her arms around her boy and said, "Let us thank
the good Lord that you were not killed, my boy." And do you think Charlie will ever forget
his escape? I don't. And I hope he will always thank "the good Lord" not only for the escape,
but for his every blessing.

I AM COMING!

    I am coming! I am coming! sings the robin on the wing;
    Soon the gates of spring will open; where you loiter I will sing;
    Turn your thoughts to merriest music, send it ringing down the vale,
    Where the yellow-bird is waiting on the old brown meadow-rail.

    I am coming! I am coming! sings the summer from afar;
    And her voice is like the shining of some silver-mantled star;
    In it breathes the breath of flowers, in it hides the dawn of day,
    In it wake the happy showers of the merry, merry May!

DAISY'S TEMPTATION.

"I don't think grandma would ever know it. I could just slip them into my pocket and put them
on after I get there as e-a-sy! I'll do it;" and Daisy Dorsey lifted her grandma's gold beads
from a box on her lap. She clasped them about her chubby neck and stood before the mirror,
talking softly to herself. "How nice it will be!" she said, drawing up her little figure till
only the tip of her nose was visible in the glass. "And Jimmy Martin will let me fly his kite
instead of Hetty Lee. Hetty Lee, indeed! I don't believe she ever had any grandmother--not
such a grandmother as mine, anyway."

Then the proud little Daisy fell to thinking of the verse her mother had read to her that morning,
about the dear Father in heaven who sees us always, and the blessed angels who are so holy
and so pure.

"And I promised mamma I would be so good and try so hard to do right always. No, no; I can't
do it. Lie there, little pretty gold beads. Daisy loves you, but she wants to be good too.
So good-bye, dear little, bright gold beads," laying them softly back in the drawer and turning
away with her eyes like violets in the rain.

Now, it so happened that good Grandma Ellis had heard every word Daisy had said, had seen her
take the beads from their box in the drawer, knew just how her darling was tempted and how
she had conquered pride and evil desire in her little heart, for she was in her bath-room,
adjoining her chamber; and the door being ajar, she could hear and see all that Daisy said and did.

How glad she was when she heard her say, "I can't do it. Good-bye, pretty gold beads!" and
she felt so sorry, too, for the great tears in the sweet blue eyes.

Daisy wore the coral beads to the picnic, and no child had a merrier day than she, for she
had struggled with temptation, had overcome through the loving Father's aid, and so was happy,
as we all are when we do right.

That evening, when the harvest-moon lifted its bright face to the bosom of the east, Grandma
Ellis sat in her old-fashioned high-backed chair thinking.

Such a pretty picture she made, too, with her light shawl draped gracefully over her shoulders,
her kerchief and cap so snowy, and her sweet face so full of God's love and his divinest peace!

In her hands she held the gold beads, and there was something very like tears in her gray eyes,
for the necklace had a history that only grandma knew--she and one other, whose face that night
was far away where they need no light of the moon, nor of the sun, for God is the light of
the place.

"Come here, Daisy," she said, presently. "Come to grandma."

The little creature flew like a bird, for she loved the sound of that dear old voice; and besides,
Daisy was a happy child that night, and in her heart the singing-birds of content and joy kept
up a merry music of their own.

Grandma Ellis threw the little necklace over Daisy's head as she came toward her, and lifting
her to her knee and kissing her glad eyes said, speaking low and softly,

"That is for my Daisy to keep always, for grandma's sake. It is not just the ornament for your
little dear neck in these days, but keep it always, because grandma loved it and gave it to
her darling that would not deceive her, even for the sake of flying Jimmy Martin's kite at
the picnic."

Then Daisy was sure grandma knew all about her sad temptation, and how she had coveted the
bright gold beads for just one little day. Now they were to be hers for ever, and half for
shame, half for very joy, Daisy hid her curly head in grandma's bosom and sobbed aloud.

"Hush, darling!" grandma said; "we are all tempted to do wrong sometimes, and the dear Father
in heaven suffers this to be that we may grow stronger through resistance. Now, if you had
yielded to the voice of pride and desire this morning, do you think you could have been happy
to-day, even with the necklace and flying Jimmy's kite?"

"No, no! Oh, grandma, forgive me!" sobbed the little voice from grandma's bosom.

"Yes, dear, as I am sure God does, who saw how you were sorely tried and surely conqueror.
Kiss me good-night now; and when you have said your 'Now I lay me,' add, 'Dear Father, help
grandma's Daisy to be good and happy always.'"

An hour later, with the gold beads still about her neck, Daisy in her little bed was dreaming
of the beautiful fields and flowers that are for ever fadeless in the land we name eternal;
and the blessed angels, guarding her slumber and seeing the smile upon her happy lips, were
glad because of Daisy's temptation, for they knew that the dear child would be stronger and
purer and better because she had overcome.

ANSWER TO A CHILD'S QUESTION.

WHAT NELLY GAVE AWAY.

Nelly Ray was a bright, brave-hearted little girl, whom no one could help loving.

Singing like a lark in the morning, wearing sweet smiles on her face all day, cheerful even
when the shadows fell, it would have been strange indeed if her humble home had not seemed
like a bit of paradise, and the ground under her feet had not blossomed like the rose.

It was a pleasant day in the early spring, when the grass was just lifting itself above the
moist earth, when the soft south wind was blowing among the tender little leaves of the lilac
bushes, when the birds were busy building their nests, when the merry little brook was beginning
its song and the great round world looked glad and bright, that Nelly began to make her garden.

Her father had dug the ground and made it ready for her, and so she took her little red basket
full of seeds of different kinds, each kind tied up by itself and labelled, and down in the
little beds she dropped candy-tuft, and phlox, and lady-slippers.

How happy she was at her work! Her cheeks were the color of ripe peaches, her eyes were as
sweet as twin violets, and her little mouth was like a fresh rosebud, but better and brighter
far than the cheeks and lips was the light of kindness that shone in her eyes.

Her sister Jennie, who sat sewing by the window, watched her with loving interest.

"Mother," she said, at length, looking up from her work, "do you know what a generous little
girl our Nelly would be if she was only a rich man's child?"

"Is she not generous now, Jennie?" asked her mother.

"Oh yes, surely she is. But I was thinking how much good she would do, and how much she would
give away, if only we were not poor."

She saw that her mother was smiling softly to herself.

"She gives away more now, of course, than some rich children do. Just think how faithfully
she works in that little garden, so as to have flowers to give away! I do not believe there
is a house anywhere near us into which sickness or poverty comes where her simple flowers will
not go."

"Did you ever think, dear Jennie, of the other garden which Nelly weeds and waters every day?"

"No, mother. What garden do you mean?"

"The garden of her heart, my dear child. You know that the rain which the clouds take from
the lakes and rivers comes back to refresh and beautify our fields and gardens; and so it is
with our little Nelly's good deeds and kind, loving words. She gives away more than a handful
of violets, for with them goes a bright smile, which is like sunshine to the sick heart. She
gives more than a bunch of roses, for with them always goes a kind word. And doing these little
things, she gets a large reward. Her own heart grows richer."

A STRANGE COMBAT.

We are told that the old Romans greatly delighted in witnessing the combats of wild beasts,
as well as gladiators, and that they used to ransack their whole broad empire for new and unheard-of
animals--anything and everything that had fierceness and fight in it. Those vast amphitheatres,
like the Coliseum, were built to gratify these rather sanguinary tastes in that direction.

But I doubt whether even the old Romans, with all their large experience, ever beheld so strange
and grotesque a "set-to" (I'm pretty sure none of our American boys ever did) as the writer
once stumbled upon, on the shores of one of our Northern Maine lakes--Lake Pennesseewassee,
if you can pronounce that; it trips up editors sometimes.

I had been spending the day in the neighboring forest, hunting for a black squirrel I had seen
there the evening before, having with me a great, red-shirted lumberman, named Ben--Ben Murch.
And not finding our squirrel, we were making our way, towards evening, down through the thick
alders which skirted the lake, to the shore, in the hope of getting a shot at an otter, or
a mink, when all at once a great sound, a sort of quock, quock, accompanied by a great splashing
of the water, came to our ears.

"Hush!" ejaculated Ben, clapping his hand to his ear (as his custom was), to catch the sound.
"Hear that? Some sort of a fracas."

And cautiously pushing through the dense copse, a very singular and comical spectacle met our
eyes. For out some two or three rods from the muddy, grassy shore stood a tall, a very tall
bird,--somewhere from four to five feet, I judged,--with long, thin, black legs, and an awkward
body, slovenly clad in dull gray-blue plumage. The neck was as long as the legs, and the head
small, and nearly bare, with a long, yellowish bill. Standing knee deep in the muddied water,
it was, on the whole, about the most ungainly-looking fowl you can well imagine; while on a
half-buried tree trunk, running out towards it into the water, crouched a wiry, black creature,
of about average dog size, wriggling a long, restless tail, and apparently in the very act
of springing at the long-legged biped in the water. Just now they were eying each other very
intently; but from the splashed and bedraggled appearance of both, it was evident there had
been recent hostilities, which, judging from the attitude of the combatants, were about to
be renewed.

"Show!" exclaimed Ben, peering over my shoulder from behind. "An old hairn--ain't it? Regular
old pokey. Thought I'd heered that quock before. And that creatur'? Let's see. Odd-looking
chap. Wish he'd turn his head this way. Fisher--ain't it? Looks like one. Should judge that's
a fisher-cat. What in the world got them at loggerheads, I wonder?"

By "hairn" Ben meant heron, the great blue heron of American waters--Ardea Herodias of the
naturalists. And fisher, or fisher-cat, is the common name among hunters for Pennant's marten,
or the Mustela canadensis, a very fierce carnivorous animal, of the weasel family, growing
from three to four feet in length, called also "the black cat."

The fisher had doubtless been the assailant, though both had now that intent, tired-down air
which marks a long fray. He had probably crept up from behind, while old long-shanks was quietly
frogging along the shore.

But he had found his intended victim a game one. The heron had a character to sustain; and
although he might easily have flown away, or even waded farther out, yet he seemed to scorn
to do either.

Not an inch would it budge, but stood with its long, javelin-like beak poised, ready to strike
into the fisher's eye, uttering, from moment to moment, that menacing, guttural quock, which
had first attracted our attention.

This sound, mingling with the eager snarling and fretting of the cat, made the most dismal
and incongruous duet I had ever listened to. For some moments they stood thus threatening and
defying each other; but at length, lashing itself up to the proper pitch of fury, the fisher
jumped at his antagonist with distended jaws, to seize hold of the long, slender throat. One
bite at the heron's slim neck would settle the whole affair. But this attempt was very adroitly
balked by the plucky old wader's taking a long step aside, when the fisher fell into the water
with a great splash, and while struggling back to the log, received a series of strokes, or,
rather, stabs, from the long, pointed beak, dealt down with wonderful swiftness, and force,
too; for we distinctly heard them prod into the cat's tough hide, as he scrambled upon the
log, and ran spitting up the bank. This defeat, however, was but temporary, as any one acquainted
with the singular persistence and perseverance of the whole weasel family will readily guess.
The fisher had soon worked his way down the log again, the heron retiring to his former position
in the water.

Another succession of quocks and growlings, and another spring, with even less success, on
the side of the cat. For this time the heron's bill wounded one of his eyes; and as he again
retreated up the log, we could see the bloody tears trickling down over his shaggy jowl.

Thus far the battle seemed favorable to the heron; but the fisher again rallied, and, now thoroughly
maddened, rushed down the log, and leaped blindly upon his foe. Again and again his attacks
were parried. The snarling growls now rose to shrieks, and the croaking quocks to loud, dissonant
cries.

"Faugh!" muttered Ben. "Smell his breath--fisher's breath--clean here. Always let that out
somehow when they're mad."

Even at our distance, that strong, fetid odor, sometimes perceptible when a cat spits, could
plainly be discerned.

"Old hairn seems to be having the best of it," continued Ben. "I bet on him. How cool he keeps!
Fights like a machine. See that bill come down now! Look at the marks it makes, too!" For the
blood, oozing out through the thick fur of the cat in more than a dozen spots, was attesting
the prowess of the heron's powerful beak.

But at length, with a sudden bound upward, the fisher fell with his whole weight upon the back
of his lathy antagonist. Old long-legs was upset, and down they both went in the water, where
a prodigious scuffle ensued. Now one of the heron's big feet would be thrust up nearly a yard;
then the cat would come to the top, sneezing and strangling; and anon the heron's long neck
would loop up in sight, bending and doubling about in frantic attempts to peck at its foe,
its cries now resembling those of a hen when seized in the night, save that they were louder
and harsher. Over and over they floundered and rolled. The mud and water flew about. Long legs,
shaggy paws, wet, wriggling tail, and squawking beak, fur and feathers--all turning and squirming
in inextricable confusion. It was hard telling which was having the best of the mêlée, when,
on a sudden, the struggle stopped, as if by magic.

"One or t'other has given in," muttered Ben.

Looking more closely, we saw that the fisher had succeeded in getting the heron's neck into
his mouth. One bite had been sufficient. The fray was over. And after holding on a while, the
victor, up to his back in water, began moving towards the shore, dragging along with him, by
the neck, the body of the heron, whose great feet came trailing after at an astonishing distance
behind. To see him, wet as a drowned rat, tugging up the muddy bank with his ill-omened and
unsightly prey, was indeed a singular spectacle. Whatever had brought on this queer contest,
the fisher had won--fairly, too, for aught I could see; and I hadn't it in my heart to intercept
his retreat. But Ben, to whom a "black cat" was particularly obnoxious, from its nefarious
habit of robbing traps, had no such scruples, and, bringing up his rifle with the careless
quickness of an old woodsman, fired before I could interpose a word. The fisher dropped, and
after writhing and snapping a few moments, stretched out--dead.

Leaving Ben to take off its skin,--for the fur is worth a trifle,--I was strolling along the
shore, when upon coming under a drooping cedar, some six or seven rods from the scene of the
fight, another large heron sprang out of a clump of brambles, and stalked off with a croak
of distrust. It at once occurred to me that there might be a nest here; and opening the brambles,
lo, there it was, a broad, clumsy structure of coarse sticks, some two or three feet from the
ground, and lined with moss and water grasses. In it, or, rather, on it, were two chicks, heron
chicks, uncouth little things, with long, skinny legs and necks, and sparsely clad with tufts
of gray down. And happening to glance under the nest, I perceived an egg, lodged down among
the bramble-stalks. It had probably rolled out of the nest. It struck me, however, as being
a very small egg from so large a bird; and having a rule in my pocket, I found it to be but
two and a half inches in length by one and a half in width. It was of a dull, bluish-white
color, without spots, though rather rough and uneven. I took it home as a curiosity.

On the edge of the nest I saw several small perch, a frog, and a meadow-mouse, all recently
brought, though the place had a suspicious odor of carrion.

All this while the old heron had stood at a little distance away, uttering now and then an
ominous croak. I could easily have shot it from where I stood, but thought the family had suffered
enough for one day.

The presence of the nest accounted for the obstinacy with which the old male heron had contested
the ground with the fisher.

Both old birds are said to sit by turns upon the eggs. But the nests are not always placed
so near the ground as this one. Last summer, while fishing from the "Pappoose's Pond," I discovered
one in the very top of a lofty Norway pine--a huge bunch of sticks and long grass, upon the
edge of which one of the old herons was standing on one foot, perfectly motionless, with its
neck drawn down, and seemingly asleep.

The artist who could have properly sketched that nest and bird would have made his fortune
then and there.

                                             C. A. STEPHENS.

LITTLE HOME-BODY.

    Little Home-body is mother's wee pet,
    Fairest and sweetest of housekeepers yet;
    Up when the roses in golden light peep,
    Helping her mother to sew and to sweep.
    Tidy and prim in her apron and gown,
    Brightest of eyes, of the bonniest brown;
    Tiniest fingers, and needle so fleet,
    Pattern of womanhood, down at my feet!

    Little Home-body is grave and demure,
    Weeps when you speak of the wretched and poor,
    Though she can laugh in the merriest way
    While you are telling a tale that is gay.
    Lily that blooms in some lone, leafy nook;
    Sly little hide-away, moss-sided brook;
    Fairies are fine, where the silver dews fall;
    Home fairies--these are the best of them all!

                            GEORGE COOPER.

NEDDY'S HALF HOLIDAY.

"We've had a good time, Tony, old fellow, haven't we?" said Neddy Harris, who was beginning
to feel tired with his half day's ramble in the fields. As he said this he sat down on some
boards in the barn.

Tony replied to his young master by rubbing his nose against his face, and by a soft "baa,"
which was as near as he could come to saying, "A first-rate time, Master Neddy."

"A grand good time," added the boy, putting his arms around the lamb's neck and laying his
face on its soft wool.

"And now," he continued, "as father says we should always do, I'll just go back and think over
what I've done this holiday afternoon; and if I forgot myself in anything and went wrong, it
will be best for me to know it, so that I can do better next time.

"I'm sorry about that poor squirrel," said Neddy; "he never did me any harm. What a beautiful
little creature he was, with his bright black eyes and shiny skin!"

And the boy's face grew sad, as well it might, for he had pelted this squirrel with stones
from tree to tree, and at last knocked him to the ground.

"But it was so cruel in me! Now, if I live a hundred years, I'll never harm another squirrel.
God made these frisky little fellows, and they've just as much right to live as I have."

Neddy felt better about the squirrel after this good resolution, which he meant to keep.

"That was curious about the spider," he went on, trying to push all thoughts of the dead squirrel
from his mind. Let me tell you about this spider. In the corner of a fence Neddy saw a large
circular spider's web, shaped like a funnel, down in the centre of which was a hole. As he
stood looking at the delicate thing, finer than any woven silk, a fly struck against it and
got his feet tangled, so that he could not escape. Instantly a great black spider ran out of
the hole at the bottom of the web, and seizing the poor fly dragged him out of sight and made
his dinner off of him.

Neddy dropped a piece of dry bark about the size of his thumb nail into the web, and it slipped
down and covered the hole through which the spider had to come for his prey. Instantly the
piece of bark was pushed up by the spider, who came out of his den and ran around on the slender
cords of his web in a troubled kind of way. Then he tried to get back into his hidden chamber,
but the piece of bark covered the entrance like a shut door. And now Mr. Spider was in a terrible
flurry. He ran wildly up one side of his web and down another; then he tugged at the piece
of bark, trying to drag it out, but its rough edges took hold of the fine silken threads and
tore them.

"You'll catch no more flies in that web, old chap," said Neddy as he stood watching the spider.

But Neddy was mistaken. Spider did not belong to the give-up class. If the thing could not
be done in one way, it might in another. He did not reason about things like human beings,
but then he had instinct, as it is called, and that teaches animals how to get their food,
how to build their houses or make their nests, and how to meet the dangers and difficulties
that overtake them in life. After sitting still for a little while, spider went to work again,
and this time in a surprising way. He cut a circle close around the piece of bark as neatly
as you could have done with a pair of sharp scissors, and lo! it dropped to the ground, leaving
a hole in the web about the size of a ten-cent piece.

"Rather hard on the web, Mr. Landpirate," said Neddy, laughing. "Flies can go through there
as well as chips."

When he called the spider a land-pirate, Neddy was wrong. He was no more a pirate--that is,
one who robs and murders--than is the woodpecker or swallow, for they feed on worms and insects.
The spider was just as blameless in his work of catching and eating flies as was Neddy's white
bantam when she went off into the fields after grasshoppers.

But Neddy's laugh at the spider was soon cut short. The most difficult part of his work was
done when he got rid of the piece of bark. As soon as that was out of his way he began moving
backward and forward over the hole he had cut in the web, just as if he were a weaver's shuttle,
and in about ten minutes it was all covered with gauzy lacework finer than ever was worn by
a queen.

"I'll give it up, old fellow," exclaimed Neddy, taking a long breath as he saw the work completed.
"This just beats me out." Spider crept down into his den again to wait for another fly, and
Neddy, leading Tony, went on his way pleased and wondering.

THE SPARROW.

    Thou humblest bird that wings the air, the Master cares for thee;
    And if he cares for one so small, will he not care for me?

    His eye looks on thee from above, he notices thy fall;
    And if he cares for such as thee, does he not care for all?

    He feeds thee in the sweet spring-time, when skies are bright and
            blue;
    He feeds thee in the autumn-time, and in the winter too.

    He leads thee through the pathless air, he guides thee in thy
            flight;
    He sees thee in the brightest day, and in the darkest night.

    Oh, if his loving care attends a bird so mean and small,
    Will he not listen to my voice when unto him I call?

MRS. PIKE'S PRISONERS.

A TRUE STORY.

Early on a cloudy April afternoon, many years ago, several little girls were playing in a village
door-yard, not far from the fence which separated it from a neighbor's. They were building
a play-house of boards, and were so busily occupied, that none of them had noticed a lady standing
at a little four-paned window in the house the other side of the fence, who had been intently
regarding them for some time. The window was so constructed as to swing back like a door, and
being now open, the lady's face was framed against the dark background of the room, producing
the effect of a picture. 'Twas a strange face, sallow and curiously wrinkled, with a nose like
the beak of a hawk, and large black eyes, which seemed to be endowed with the power of perpetual
motion. These roved from one to another of the busy builders, till suddenly one of them seemed
to be aware that some one was looking at her, and turned towards the little window.

"Ah, I know you, Wealthy Robbins! Come here a minute, my little dear," spoke the lady, in a
shrill, quavering voice. And she beckoned to her with a hooked finger like a claw. But Wealthy
shrank back, murmuring, "I don't want to," almost under her breath, and nudging with her elbow
the nearest girl; "Hannah, Mrs. Pike wants something. See!"

"Is that you, Hannah Green? Come over here, and I'll give you a piece of my Passover candy."
And the lady waved in the air a long candle-rod entwined with a strip of scarlet flannel, which
made it look like a mammoth stick of peppermint candy.

This attracted the attention of all the girls, and going close to the fence, they peered through,
while she besought them, with enticing promises and imploring eyes, to come around under the
window, for she had something to tell them.

"Don't let's go," whispered Mary Green, the oldest of the group. "Mother told me never to go
near her window when she's standing there, for she's a crazy woman. That stick isn't candy
no more than I am."

"Come, Sarah; I always knew you were a kind little girl," said Mrs. Pike, in a coaxing tone,
to the youngest and smallest of the group; "do come here just a minute."

At last, Sarah Holmes and her sister Jane went around, and stood under the little window. Jane
said it could do no harm just to go and see what Mrs. Pike wanted, and if she was shut up in
jail, she guessed she'd want a good many things.

"Now, you dear little lambs, you see I'm all alone in the house; and they've gone away, and
forgotten to give me my dinner; and I'm very hungry. All I want is a little unleavened bread,
for this is Passover Day, you know. Well, you just climb in through the dining-room window,
little Sarah,--Jane can help you,--and unlock my door, so I can go to the buttery and get some
bread. Then I'll bring you out a nice saucer mince pie, and come back here, and you can lock
me in. They'll never know; and I shall starve if you don't take pity on me."

After some whispering together, the little girls did as they were bidden, notwithstanding the
warnings of their mates the other side of the fence. When they had disappeared from view, Mary
Green turned away, and began to hammer, as though she was driving a nail into Mrs. Pike's head,
or Jane Holmes's, or somebody's, ejaculating, "I guess they'll rue this day."

Which prophetic words came very near being verified at the moment they were spoken. For no
sooner had Jane unlocked the door of Mrs. Pike's room, than out sprang that lady, and clutched
one of the little girls with either hand, almost shrieking, "Ah, I know you! you belong to
that wicked and rebellious tribe of Korah. Why didn't you come over to the help of the mighty
immediately? Now, you shall see how you like dwelling in the Cave of Machpelah for a day and
a night, and a month and a year, until He shall come whose right it is to reign."

And she thrust the trembling, awe-struck children into the room that had been her prison, and
turned the key upon them. Then away she strode out of the house and up the street, a noticeable
figure, truly, in her short yellow nankeen dress, with pantalets of the same, and neat white
Quaker cap, with long white ribbons crossed under her chin, and carrying an immense umbrella
over her head. It was strange that none of the nearest neighbors should see her pass. The front
door was on the opposite side of the house from where the little girls were playing; so they
did not observe her exit; and thus it happened that the crazy lady, who had been confined in
the house for weeks, escaped without any check upon her triumphant progress. Busy women, seeing
her from their windows, thought Mrs. Pike must be better again, to be out, and did wish her
friends wouldn't let her walk the streets looking like a Dutch woman. Boys paused in their
games almost respectfully, as she passed by; for notwithstanding her strange appearance and
rapid movements, there was an air of mysterious command about the woman which checked any rudeness.

"There goes Madam Pike," exclaimed one ragged-kneed boy, when she had passed out of hearing.
"Got on her ascension-robe--hasn't she? Wonder if that umberil will help her any? I say, boys,
do you suppose all the saints that walk the streets of the new Jerusalem look like her?"

While Mrs. Pike walked rapidly on, with a keen appreciation of the fresh air and occasional
gleams of sunshine, the little prisoners drooped like two April violets plucked and thrown
upon the ground. They were so frightened and awe-struck, that the idea of calling for help
from the open window did not occur to them; and they crouched upon the floor, melancholy and
mute. After a while, some odd-looking garments, hanging in a row on one side of the room, attracted
their attention; but they did not dare to go near them at first. Mrs. Pike was what was called
a Second Adventist, and had read the Bible and Apocrypha with a fiery zeal, and an earnest
determination to find therein proof of what she believed, and had attended Second Advent meetings,
and exhorted wherever she could get a hearing, until her poor brain was crazed. But lately
her husband and friends had kept her in doors as much as possible; and she spent most of the
time knitting ascension-robes for the saints of the twelve tribes of the house of Judah. These
were long garments, coming nearly to the feet, each of a single color, royal purple and blue
being her favorites. She said that she must improve every moment, lest the great and dreadful
day of the Lord should come, and she should not be ready, i. e., would not have a robe prepared
for each of the saints to ascend in. When her son, a boy of twelve, died, she had him buried
by the front doorstep, so, when the procession of saints should pass out at the door, Erastus
could join them immediately, and not have to come from the burying-ground, a mile away.

It was after sunset when Mr. Pike passed along the village street, on his way home, and was
informed by a good woman, standing at her gate, that his wife had gone by about one o'clock,
and that, not long after, Jane and Sarah Holmes were missed. Some little girls they had been
playing with had seen them get into Mr. Pike's house through the dining-room window, and that
was the last that had been seen or heard of them. Mrs. Holmes was going on dreadfully; for
she thought that, as likely as not, Madam Pike had thrown them down in the well, or hid them
where they would never be found, and then run away. The bewildered man hurried home to harness
his horse, and go in search of his wife; for, with a trust in her better nature, worthy of
a woman, he believed that she would tell him where the children were, if she knew. Fortunately,
he found her in a tavern about a mile from home, preaching, as the children would say. As usual,
she was exhorting her hearers to prepare for the great and terrible day of the Lord, etc.,
etc.; but when her husband appeared in the doorway, the thread of her discourse was suddenly
broken, and she turned and accosted him with, "Ah, Mr. Pike, have you seen my prisoners in
the Cave of Machpelah? They belong to that wicked and rebellious tribe of Korah, you know."

"Well, Mary, let's go home, and see how they are getting along," said he, in a confident tone;
for he instantly divined who her prisoners were, and that the Cave of Machpelah could not be
far away.

Mrs. Pike was quite willing to go with him, and worried all the way home; for she said prisoners
were always in mischief, and there were the robes hanging in the cave, which she had forgotten
to put out of their reach. So when they arrived, her first act was to unlock the door of the
children's prison. And her next was to pounce upon them with even more vigor than when she
emerged from it in the afternoon. For there they lay asleep on the carpet, Jane in a purple
robe, and Sarah in a green, their hands and feet invisible by reason of the great length of
their garments.

"Don't hurt them, Mary," said Mr. Pike. For she was hustling off the precious robes before
the little girls were fairly awake; and they might have fared hardly, had not the kind man
been present to see that justice was done; to wit, that they were compensated for their imprisonment
by pockets full of cakes and fruit, and sent home to their mother without delay. That happy
woman did not send them supperless to bed, nor say a word about punishing them, either then
or afterwards. Perhaps she guessed that their punishment had already been sufficiently severe.

"O, mother," said Jane, "at first we didn't dare to stir or speak, for fear the crazy lady
was listening; and she seemed angry enough to kill us. I felt as if my hair was turning gray,
and Sarah looked as white as the wall. Well, after a great many hours, we began to look about
the room, and we saw those queer gowns she knits, hanging in a row; and we got up and looked
at them. By and by we got so tired doing nothing, that we took them down and tried them on,
and played we were the saints. We tried to fly, but the old things were so heavy and long,
that we couldn't even jump. And after a while we were so tired that we lay down and went to
sleep, and never woke till Mrs. Pike came home. O, but 'twas the lonesomest, longest, dreariest
afternoon we ever, ever knew--wasn't it, Sarah?"

This was the story, with variations, which the Holmes girls had to tell to their mates the
next day, and the next, and so on, until it ceased to be a novelty.

But Mrs. Pike's prisoners were heroines, in the estimation of the village girls and boys, for
more than one year, and doubtless still remember and tell to their children the story of their
afternoon in the Cave of Machpelah.

                                                    M. R. W.

WAR AND PEACE.

WAR.

    The warrior waves his standard high,
      His falchion flashes in the fray;
    He madly shouts his battle-cry,
      And glories in a well-fought day.
    But Famine's at the city gate,
      And Rapine prowls without the walls;
    The city round lies desolate,
      While Havoc's blighting footstep falls.
    By ruined hearths, by homes defiled,
      In scenes that nature's visage mar,
    We feel the storm of passions wild,
      And pluck the bitter fruit of war.

PEACE.

    The cobweb hangs on Sword and belt,
      The charger draws the gliding plow;
    The cannons in the furnace melt,
      And change to gentle purpose now;
    The threshers swing their ponderous flails,
      The craftsmen toil with cheerful might;
    The ocean swarms with merchant sails,
      And busy mills look gay by night;
    The happy land becomes renowned,
      As knowledge, arts, and wealth increase,
    And thus, with plenty smiling round,
      We cull the blessed fruits of peace.

CHERRY-TIME.

    "Oh, cherry-time is a merry time!"
      We children used to say--
    "The merriest throughout the year,
      For all is bright and gay."

    "Oh, cherry-time is a merry time!"
      The air is fresh and sweet,
    And fair flowers in the garden bloom,
      And daisies 'neath our feet.

    "Oh, cherry-time is a merry time!"
      For hanging on the tree,
    All round and glistening in the sun,
      The pretty fruit we see.

    "Oh, cherry-time is a merry time!"
      Up in the tree so high
    We children climbed, and, laughing, said,
      "Almost into the sky."

    "Oh, cherry-time is a merry time!"
      The robins thought so too,
    And helped themselves to "cherries ripe"
      While wet with morning dew.

    "Oh, cherry-time is a merry time!"
      The sunshine and the showers
    Of God's rich mercy fall on us
      In happy childhood's hours.

THE DAVY BOYS' FISHING-POND.

"Boys," said Mr. Davy, "how would you like to have a fishing-pond?"

The five boys looked at him eagerly, to see if he were in earnest.

"O, splendid, papa!" say they in chorus; "but how can we have a fishing-pond?"

"You know that hollow down in the pasture," continued Mr. Davy, "and what a blemish it is upon
the farm. I have wondered if we could not make it useful in some way, and at the same time
improve the looks of things. I think we might build an embankment upon the open side, make
the slope steeper all round, bring the water into it from the creek, and so have a fishing-pond.
We should have to make a race-way from the creek to the pond, and cut a channel through the
meadow, in which the water could flow back to the creek again below the fall. I think it could
be done," said Mr. Davy, after a pause, "only there would be a great deal of work necessary,
and we could hardly afford to hire it done."

"O, father, we can do the digging," shouted five voices in chorus; "we can do it with our spades
and wheelbarrows. School doesn't begin for a month yet, and we can get it all done in that time."

"Hurrah for a fish-pond!" cried Percy, and in imagination he fairly felt the bites of the three-pound
trout he was to catch before summer was over.

Mr. Davy is a practical farmer. By that I mean that he cultivates the land with his own hands.
He, with his men, and those of the boys who are old enough, are in the fields every morning
in summer by five o'clock, ploughing, planting, sowing, or milking the cows, and, later in
the season, haying, harvesting, or threshing. Tommy, the eldest of his sons, is thirteen years
old; Clarence, the youngest, is five.

Mr. Davy had been thinking of the fishing-pond for some time, and had matured the plan in his
mind before speaking of it to the boys. The morning after the conversation of which I have
told you, I saw the five boys standing in thoughtful silence upon the bank above the hollow
in the pasture. I do not believe the engineer who is planning the bridge across the British
Channel, to connect England and France, feels anymore responsibility than did the Davy boys
that morning.

"May we begin to-day, father?" said they, eagerly, at breakfast-time.

"Yes; and Patrick can help you," was the reply.

The horses were harnessed to the plough, and driven to the hollow. Patrick was instructed how
to proceed. He put the reins round his neck, and took firm hold of the handles. "Go on wid
ye, now!" he cried to the horses. A furrow was soon turned, and the fish-pond fairly begun.

"Your work," said Mr. Davy to the boys, "will be to wheel away the earth which Patrick ploughs
out. The first thing is to lay a plank for your wheelbarrows to run upon."

Tommy and George soon brought the planks from the tool-house. Blocks were laid the proper distance
apart to sustain them, and, after two or three hours' work, a line of plank, which looked to
the boys as grand as the new Pacific Railway, stretched across the hollow. The little laborers
went in to dinner flushed with excitement and hard work, but as happy, I dare say, as if they
had been to Barnum's Museum, and seen the wax figures and wild animals.

Patrick had, during the forenoon, ploughed a good many furrows, and now the boys were busy
enough carrying away the earth. Each had a wheelbarrow of his own--Clarence's a toy, which,
with a tiny spade, his father had brought from the city with a view to the work now in progress.
It required a steady hand to keep the wheelbarrows upon the plank. They would run off once
in a while, and then all hands halted, and lifted them upon the track again. The earth was
to be deposited--"dumped," the boys said--upon the site of the new embankment. As the first
loads were overturned, Mr. Davy made his appearance.

"This fish-pond must have an outlet, you know," said he, "at the point where the bottom is
lowest. I will measure it off for you, and drive three stakes on either side. Here we will
have a gate; for our pond will need emptying and cleaning occasionally. Fish will not live
in impure water."

The boys were delighted. All this excavating, laying out of earthworks, and planning of gate-way,
seemed like real engineering. They were reënforced, after a while, by Patrick and the horses;
and then how suddenly they became tired, his shovelfuls were so large in comparison with theirs--his
wagon carried away so much more at a load!

Pretty early that evening little Clarence crept into his mother's lap, and told her a marvellous
story of the amount of earth he had wheeled away; but his tired little eyes acted as though
some of it had blown between their lids; and soon mamma tucked him away for twelve hours' sleep.

The hollow in the pasture, I forgot to say, was half an acre in extent, and appeared as though
Nature had scooped it out on purpose to make a place for the Davy boys' fishing-pond. The creek,
too, running nearly alongside, was there to supply it with water.

"What shall we ever do with that hill?" said Percy, pointing to a rise of ground on one side
the hollow, as he and his brothers were surveying their work; "we never can cart all that away,
nor dig up those trees, either."

"Let's leave it for an island," said Frank--"a real island--land with water all round it" (he
had just begun studying geography); "and the trees will make a splendid grove, where we can
have picnics."

"The island will afford a harbor for the boat, too," said Mr. Davy, who had just joined the
children. "I suppose you will want a boat on your pond--will you not?"

The boys could scarcely believe their ears. A boat of their own, on their own pond! They had
never dreamed of anything half so nice.

"Time to be at work!" said Mr. Davy.

All the forenoon, as I watched them from my window, I saw the embankment growing slowly, but
steadily, while the sloping sides of the hollow became steeper and steeper. At night a visible
step had been taken towards a fishing-pond.

I cannot tell you about every one of the days during which the Davy boys worked so industriously.
At last, however, the excavation was completed, the embankment raised to the desired height.
The frame for the gate-way stood firm between its crowding sides. Gates were in progress at
the carpenter's, made of solid plank, a door sliding up and down over an open space near the
bottom. This was easily worked by means of a handle at the top.

"And now," said Mr. Davy, "to get the water into the pond. Patrick and Michael must build a
dam a little way up the creek and the race-way from a point just above. We shall need a gate
similar to the one at the outlet."

The boys were glad to give way to Patrick and Michael, when it came to building dams and race-ways.
In the mean time they assisted the mason who was lining the embankment on either side the gate
with stone, to protect it against the action of the water. The stone-boat, a little, flat vehicle
which slides over the ground without wheels, was brought out, for piles of stone were to be
drawn from a distant part of the farm.

"But I shall want one of you to carry the hod for me," said the mason.

It was arranged that they should take turns at this; so one would stay and fill with mortar
the queer little box which hod-carriers use, and bear it on his shoulders to the mason, who
was fast laying the curved wall.

"Why do you have the wall laid in this rounding shape, papa?" asked George. "Why not have it
straight?"

"Because the curve makes it stronger to resist the force of the water. You notice that the
mason chooses stones which are larger at one end than at the other. He lays them so that the
larger ends form the outer side of the curve--the smaller form the inner or shorter side, as
you see by looking at this wall. The stones, thus wedged against each other, could not be as
easily forced out of place as if they were square in shape, and laid in a straight line. Imagine
the water pressing upon the inner side of the curve. How readily the wall would give way, and
the water come pouring through! Have you never observed, children," continued Mr. Davy, "that
in bridges, culverts, or any structure which is to sustain a heavy weight, the foundations
are always laid in the form of an arch?"

"Yes, papa," answered George; "but I never knew why it was. I see now that it is to make them
strong."

The boys had quite enough of hod-carrying and stone-quarrying before the wall was done. In
fact, Patrick was pressed into the service repeatedly. The hod became too uneasy a burden for
the boys' shoulders, even though it was padded with sheep-skin.

A channel to convey the water from the pond was now the only thing wanting. This was speedily
begun, and the little workmen found themselves down in a trench behind a low rampart of earth.

"Let's play we are soldiers," said George. "We'll have Patrick and Michael for captain and
lieutenant (only they must work, if they are officers), and papa for general and engineer."

Each little soldier did his best. The officers worked faithfully. The engineer came round often,
and the dark thread across the bright, green meadow spun out rapidly.

"Let's elect Frank quartermaster," said Tommy; "then he'll go to headquarters, and make requisition
for rations. I think it's time for dinner."

"Tell mother to send a big basketful, Frank. Soldiers get awful hungry," said Percy.

"Tell mother we want to make coffee in the field, too," said George. "Real soldiers do."

I fear that Patrick and Michael did most of the work after this, for the department of the
commissary seemed to require the attention of all the boys.

Mamma was willing to issue rations in the field. "But," said she, "soldiers often have only
hard tack and coffee. I suppose you will want nothing more."

This was a view of the case for which the boys were not prepared. They did not wish to seem
unsoldierly, but they were very hungry.

"You know, mother," said Percy, "soldiers had bacon sometimes with their hard tack."

"And we are only playing soldiers. We ain't real soldiers," said matter-of-fact Clarence.

His brothers were quite ashamed that he should give this as a reason for wanting a good dinner,
yet when they saw the pies and cakes going into the basket, they made no remarks.

While the quartermaster was at the house, Tommy and George had built a fire, to boil the coffee.
Two crotched stakes were driven firmly in the ground. A stout rod lay across them, and on this
hung the kettle. A lively fire was burning underneath, the water boiling. In a few moments
the coffee was made.

After washing carefully in the creek,--for everything must be done as soldiers do,--all sat
down in a circle on the ground. The coffee was served in tin cups; but shall I confess that
our soldiers were so unsoldierlike as to drink it with cream and sugar?

Patrick and Michael partook; but as they were absent directly afterwards, under pretence of
smoking a noon pipe, I fancy they ate still further rations in the farm-house kitchen. The
boys, however, said it was the best dinner they ever ate in their lives.

They were now ready for a visit from the general. "We will have these breastworks," said he,
"smoothed down in regular shape, and sow grass-seed upon them, so that in a few weeks there
will be a green slope in place of these unsightly clods."

I assure you that as I look from my window while writing this story, those slopes appear very
pretty, with the merry, sparkling stream flowing between.

But I must hasten; for you will be anxious to know that the pond, gates, outlet, and all were
done at last. Then came the day upon which the water was to be let in. A great day it was for
the whole neighborhood. All the boys for a mile round were there to see.

When everything was ready, Mr. Davy, who was up at the dam, hoisted the gate; the water came
rushing through; in a few moments it had reached the end of its course, and poured over into
the pond.

Such a shout as rose from the throats of the forty or fifty boys! It must have surprised those
placid meadows and the great solemn rocks around. And you would have thought the sleepy old
hills had actually been startled into life, such sounding echoes they sent back in answer.

The water spread itself thinly at first over the bottom of the pond. Slowly it rose; the little
hollows were filled up, the slight elevations hidden from sight. Gradually it closed round
the tiny green island which stood out above its surface like an emerald set in shining silver.
By night the pond was full. The water began running over the top of the gate, making the prettiest
little waterfall, and over it a light spray rose softly towards the evening sky.

Bright and early the next morning there was commotion at the Davys'. The boys were going to
Maxwell's Creek, ten miles away, fishing. Mrs. Davy was stirring round, preparing their lunch.
George and Percy hurried to the stable.

"Come, Brown Billy," said Percy to the favorite pony; "time to get up and have your breakfast.
We are all going fishing to-day;" and he laid his hand smartly upon the pony's back.

Brown Billy raised his head, opened his eyes in astonishment to see the boys so early in his
stall; but hearing their merry voices, he seemed to understand the situation at once, and to
be in full sympathy with them. An extra allowance of oats was put in the manger, and while
the boys were eating their breakfast in the house, Brown Billy leisurely munched his in the
stable. Then, after a draught from the pump, he was put into the traces. Two casks and a large
basket were lifted in, the luncheon deposited, and soon they were on their way. The sun was
just peeping above the horizon, spreading a crimson glory over every hill, and tree, and shrub;
but this was so familiar a sight to the Davy boys, that it caused no remark, though they were
not insensible to its beauty.

The scene of their day's sport was a beautiful glen among the hills, through which the stream,
a genuine, untaught child of the woods, jumped and tumbled at its own wild will, now leaping
from precipices in the loveliest cataracts, then fretting noisily over its stony bed, and,
a little farther on, flowing as smoothly as if it never thought of foaming or fretting in all
its course.

Tommy tied Brown Billy to a tree, giving him a long tether, that he might pick at the fresh grass.

Trout are the most delicate of fishes, and require careful treatment. Indeed, they are quite
the aristocracy of the finny tribe. Mr. Davy had given Patrick directions not to allow them
to be caught with a hook, as it could not be taken from their mouths without causing much pain,
and perhaps death.

Patrick chose a place in the stream where the channel was narrow, but deep, and waded in.

"Now, boys," said he, "yes all go above a little way, wade out into the sthrame, and bate the
wather with yer fish-poles. This will drive thim down, and I'll see what I can do wid the basket."

The boys pulled off shoes and stockings, and rolled their trousers above the knees. Clarence
sat on the bank, paddling with his bare feet in the stream. Stepping out into the creek, they
hopped from one mossy stone to another, the water pleasantly laving their feet. Standing in
a row across the stream, they began beating rather gently, at the same time walking slowly
forward, hoping to drive the fish before them. Presently Patrick brought up the basket, the
water streaming from it as it did from Simple Simon's sieve, and in the bottom, wriggling and
squirming, lay four fine trout. Tommy seized the basket, and in an instant the fish were within
the cask, in their native element again, though in rather close quarters. The boys hung over
the barrel, gazing at the pretty creatures with intense delight. The sun shone down into the
water, making the bright spots on their sides look like gold.

"Never mind, little trout," said Franky; "you are not going to be hurt--only moved to our fish-pond."

Do you not think they enjoyed that day far more because there was no cruelty in their sport?

Their amusement was varied by a delicious lunch, and an occasional ramble through the woods.
Towards evening they drove home, elated with their success. The cask contained nearly as many
fish as could swim. The second cask was filled with fresh water, to replace that in the first
when it should no longer be fit for the use of the fish. These delicate little trout are so
sensitive to any impurity, that they could not have remained in the same water during the drive
home without suffering. Indeed, they might have died before reaching the pond.

My young readers may not know that fish breathe an element of the water which is a part of
air also. In fact, the same element which sustains us sustains them also, viz., oxygen. Only
one ninth part of water, however, is oxygen, while of air it is one fifth. I dare say you have
all seen goldfishes, shut up in crystal prisons, swimming their endless round in a quart or
two of water. Perhaps you have observed them lifting their heads above the surface, mouths
wide open, gasping for breath. The oxygen is exhausted from the water, and unless it be speedily
changed their mistress will lose her beautiful pets.

The trout were put into the pond--a small beginning, to be sure; but it was a beginning. How
lonely they must have been at first! What a boundless ocean it must have seemed to them!

We will hope they found some cosy harbor in the grassy-lined sides of the island, where they
could meet together and talk over their strange experience of moving. Plenty of company came
soon, however; for all the boys in the neighborhood were interested in stocking the pond.

A boat was in progress in Mr. Davy's tool-house. The boys watched every inch of its growth,
from the shaping of the skeleton frame to the last dash of the paint-brush. When it was done,
the seats put across from side to side, the coatings of white paint laid on, and elevated upon
four stakes to dry its glistening sides, the boys thought nothing was ever half so beautiful;
but when they saw it upon the pond, gently rocking from side to side, the oars hanging in the
locks, and lazily swaying to the motion of the water, it seemed to them more beautiful still.

This is not all a fancy sketch, dear boys and girls. Perhaps some of the farmer children who
read it may persuade their papas to make a fishing-pond of some unsightly "hollow in the pasture"
upon their own farms.

                                                    L. M. D.

STORIES ABOUT DOGS.

A Newfoundland dog belonging to a gentleman in Edinburgh was in the habit of receiving a penny
each day from his master, which he always took to a baker's shop and bought a loaf of bread
for himself. One day a bad penny was given him by a gentleman by way of frolic. Dandie ran
off with it to the baker's, as usual, but was refused a loaf. The poor dog waited a moment,
as if considering what to do; he then returned to the house of the gentleman who had given
him the bad coin; and when the servant opened the door, he laid it at her feet and walked away
with an air of contempt.

Some dogs are fond of music, while others seem not to be affected by it in the slightest degree.
These two anecdotes are related by the author of a recent volume. He is speaking of a friend:
"As soon as the lamp is lighted and placed on the sitting-room table, a large dog of the water-spaniel
breed usually jumps up and curls himself around the lamp. He never upsets it, but remains perfectly
still. Now, my friend is very musical, but during the time the piano is being played the dog
remains perfectly unmoved, until a particular piece is played. He will not take the slightest
notice of loud or soft pieces, neither sentimental nor comic, but instantly the old tune entitled
'Drops of Brandy' is played, he invariably raises his head and begins to howl most piteously,
relapsing into his usual state of lethargy as soon as this tune is stopped. My friend cannot
account for this action of the dog in any way, nor can we learn from any source the reason
of its dislike.

"Again, the wife of a hotel-keeper, lately deceased, possessed a pet lap-dog which delighted
in listening to its mistress playing on the piano; if the usual hour for her daily practice
passed by, the dog would grow impatient, snap and bark, and be perfectly uneasy until the lady
consented to gratify its wishes by sitting down to the instrument and playing a few tunes.
During this operation the dog would sit motionless on a chair by her side; and when the music
was ended, he would jump down, quite satisfied for that day."

A CHILD'S PRAYER.

JOHN STOCKS AND "THE BISON."

One winter afternoon, as Archy Douglas sat studying his lessons, Mrs. Falkoner, the housekeeper,
came to invite him to have tea in her room. While they were at the table, they heard the kitchen
bell ring, at which Mrs. Falkoner seemed surprised, for she said the weather would incline
few people to leave their own firesides.

It turned out, however, to be a visitor for Mrs. Falkoner herself, for in a few minutes one
of the servants came to say a person who called himself John Stocks wanted to see her, and
John presented himself in the doorway without further delay.

An active man, with the look, at first sight, of the mate of a ship, he stood gently stamping
the snow off his boots on the door mat, laughing in a low tone, as if he was very much pleased
to see the worthy Mrs. Falkoner, and was enjoying her stare of astonishment to the full.

"Dear bless me, John, is it really you?" said Mrs. Falkoner, almost running to meet him. "Whatever
wind has blown you here?"

"No wind at all, Mary; nought but the snow," he said, laughing: but correcting himself, he
added, "Ah, well, there was a wind, after all, for we're fairly drifted up a few miles t'other
side of the Junction; and so I got leave to run over and see you: not often I get the chance--is
it, now?"

All this time he had been taking off his outer coat; and when he was fairly in the room, Archy
found he was a young man, certainly not more than thirty. He had crisp black hair, a bold,
manly face, very red with exposure to the weather, and at the same time expressive of great
determination of character. But one peculiarity about his face was, that though so young, his
forehead was not only scarred and lined, but round his eyes and about his mouth it was puckered
and wrinkled to a most extraordinary degree. Archy felt a great curiosity about him, but was
not long left in doubt, for Mrs. Falkoner took care to make her visitor known to the young
gentleman as her youngest half brother and an engine-driver on the main line.

A remarkably quiet man did John Stocks seem in regard to general conversation; he said very
little about the weather, and less about things going on in the great world, and anything he
did say on these topics had almost to be coaxed out of him. However, he evidently took great
delight in giving all the family news, even to the most minute particular.

"Of course you've heard," he said, warming one hand at the fire, "that Bob's come home from
America. Then that old Thompson has given up the shop."

"Yes; so I heard," said Mrs. Falkoner, pouring out another cup of tea, not appearing to take
very great interest in them. "No accidents on your line lately, I hope."

"Not much," was the answer, and he again went back to the family news. "Jenny's got a baby,"
he said, suddenly, with great glee, as if this piece of news was far before any other.

This intelligence at least was news to Mrs. Falkoner, and she listened to all he had to say
about it with great interest.

But when Mrs. Falkoner was called away for a few minutes, it became necessary for Archy to
entertain the visitor till her return.

Of course Archy had many questions to put about the railway and the engines, and dangers and
catastrophes. John was excessively civil, and on this subject was full of intelligence; but
when he was asked if his own engine had broken down in the snow, he became quite horrified,
if not indignant.

"What, master, broke down?" he said. "Not a bit o't. I'd back the old Bison against a drift
twice as heavy. But, d'ye see, when you comes and finds an engine and seven wagons o' minerals,
and another engine, and wagons besides that all ahead o' ye, and stuck fast, why, I says, ye
must give in. There ain't no use expecting yer engine to drive through 'em, so must lie by
till all's cleared, which won't be for five hours at least."

"How is it that the line's blocked up now?" asked Archy. "There has been no more snow all day."

"Ay, that's true, master," said the engine-driver. "But d'ye see, a mile from the Junction
there's a bit of heavy cutting, with a steep sloping bank on either side. Now, this afternoon
there was a slip; most all the snow drifted there, and part of the bank itself fell in, and
so there is a block-up. As I said afore, the mineral train, she comes up first, and she sticks
fast, and then we has to follow, as a matter in course. But had my old Bison been afront, he'd
have done differently, I make no doubt."

"Is your engine a much stronger one?" said Archy, greatly amused to hear how funny it was to
call a train she, while he called the engine he, and by an animal's name, too.

"It's not that he's stronger, sir, but he's got more go in him, has the Bison. He's an extraordinary
plucky engine. I've seen him do wonderful things when Mat Whitelaw was driver, and me stoker
to 'em. I'll just tell you one on 'em, and then ye can judge what sort o' stuff the Bison's
made o'. It was one day in summer, some two years ago; we had just taken in water at the junction,
and were about to run back to couple on the coaches, when an engine passed us tearing along
at a tremendous speed on the other line o' rail, but, mark me, without a driver or stoker,
or aught else on it. I thought my mate was mad, when he got up steam, and off in the same direction;
but in a moment I saw what he was up to. The Bison was going in the chase. 'See to the brake,
John,' was all Mat said, when off we were after the runaway at full speed. It seemed to me
nought but a wild-goose chase; for, d'ye see, master, we were on another line o' rails altogether.
But Mat knew what he was about, and it was my place to do his bidding. I was always proud o'
the old Bison before that morning, but I never knew till then what a good engine was, and what
was depending on it.

"You would have thought he fairly snorted to his work, going at the rate o' forty miles an
hour we were, and at last we got abreast o' the runaway engine, and could have passed him,
but that would have been useless. There wasn't another driver on the whole line would have
thought of the thing so quickly as Mat did, nor could have regulated the speed so nicely to
a moment. The two different engines were running just opposite each other on the two different
lines, the runaway being a good deal worn out now, and going much slower than at first, when
Mat he says to me, hoarsely, 'Jump across. It'll be safer if I stick here to hold the regulator;
but I'll go, if you'd rather stay.' I had such confidence in Mat Whitelaw, that I could trust
my life with him before any mortal man; and the instant he gave the word, I jumped, and did
it safe. We each put on our brakes, and took breath, and desperately hot we both were, I can
assure you."

"Were you not terribly afraid?" said Archy, who had been almost breathless during the recital.

"I can't say that we were," said John, coolly; "but I'll tell you I was frightened enough the
next moment, when Mat looked at his watch, and sees that the down express was due in a few
minutes on his line. I believe that Mat thought more o' the passengers that might be smashed,
and the risk for the Bison, than o' his own safety. He said it would never do to reverse the
engines now; but if we kept on, he thought there might yet be time to run into the siding at
the nearest station. So on we went once more at increased speed, straight on ahead, though
it was like running into the very face of the danger. The telegraph had been hard at work,
and the station people had been laying their heads together, and they were at the points. So,
when they heard the whistle, and saw Mat putting on the brake, they at once opened the points,--not
a moment too soon, I can tell you,--and in he ran into the siding. Now, what Mat did, sir,
was what I call about equal to most generals in war, and as great a benefit to society."

"He must be a brave fellow," said Archy; "and I hope you were both rewarded for it."

"The company behaved very handsome," was the answer. "Mat got on to the Great Western line
at once; but the worst of it is, he and I are parted, and the old Bison; he felt his loss as
much, if not more than me."

Mrs. Falkoner, who had come in during the latter part of the story, now said,--

"But tell the young gentleman what you did your own self, and what the company thought of your
conduct."

"Tuts, Mary," he answered; "I did nought extraordinary; there ain't a man in the service but
could have done the same, had they known old Bison as well as I did."

"I should like to hear it, John," said Archy, who was standing ready to leave the brother and
sister alone.

"Well, 'cept it be to tell you how I got to be driver of the Bison myself, it's not worth the
listening to. When Mat left, Bill Jones got to be my mate--the worst driver on the line; at
least he couldn't manage the Bison. He did not understand that engine one bit, and was constantly
getting into trouble, till I was driven almost wild. Bill would say, 'Bison, indeed! he ought
to be called Donkey; it would suit his kicking ways better.' It was quite true he kicked, but
he never did it with Mat on him, and went along the rails as smooth as oil. Well, at one part
o' the line, there is a gradual long incline, and one day we were just putting on more steam
to run up, when we sees at the top two or three coaches coming tearing down straight upon us.
We knew there was a heavy excursion train on ahead, and we had been going rather slow on that
account, and this was some of the coaches that had got uncoupled from the rest. Well, Bill,
my mate, no sooner saw it coming, than says he, 'Jump for your life!' and out he went. But
I knew what a quick engine the Bison was, and, moreover, I saw our guard had noticed the danger,
too, and would work with me; so I reversed the engine, and ran back, until the coaches came
up to us, but did no further damage save giving us a bit of a shake as they struck on the old
Bison; and so we drove them afore us right up to the station. Bill was killed, as might have
been expected, for he had no faith in the Bison whatever; and so the company, they came to
see I understood that engine, and they made me driver o' him from that time."

Archy now bade the worthy engine-driver good night, saying that he should always take a greater
interest in engines than ever before, and that he should have liked very much to have seen
such a famous one as the Bison.

John Stocks evidently took this speech as a personal compliment, and, in consequence, bade
Archy a friendly good by, saying, as he did so, "that people nowadays talked of nothing but
ships and extraordinary guns, and what not, but to his mind a good engine was before them all."

                                        MRS. GEORGE CUPPLES.

THE CHILDREN'S SONG.

    Merrily sang the children, as their mother softly played;
    With eager, outstretched faces a pretty group they made;
    Their clear and bird-like voices ran loudly through the air,
    Till "Baby" heard the music, and crept from stair to stair,
    That she might join the singers, and in their gladness share.

    Dear, merry little warblers! I love to hear you, too;
    Your fresh, unworldly feelings, your hearts so fond and true,
    Give to your songs a sweetness that no other strains possess;
    They soothe the harassed spirit when troubles thickly press,
    And evoke the warm petition, "O GOD, OUR CHILDREN BLESS!"

PREPARING FOR CHRISTMAS.

    How earnest Kate and Constance and Brother Willy look,
    Counting up varied treasures, ship, bat and doll and book!

    The three are very busy, and very happy too,
    Trying to mend up old things to look almost like new.

    The book was rather shabby, but Kate with paste and thread
    Has made it firm and tidy, and rubbed it clean with bread.

    And now, ere she resigns it, she lingers, glancing o'er
    The pretty picture pages and well-known lines once more.

    Constance has dressed the dolly--you see how nice it looks--
    And all its things are fastened with little strings or hooks.

    The ship with clean new rigging--Will's work--they eye with pride,
    And they have quite a drawerful of other things beside--

    Boxes of beads and sweeties, and many a top and ball,
    Saved for the coming Christmas; and who's to have them all?

    Not their own merry playmates, bright girl and happy lad,
    Who'll meet for winter pastime like them well fed and clad.

    No; children in close alleys, or the large workhouse near,
    Our little friends--obeying Christ's words--will please and cheer.

    And their own Christmas pleasures will seem more glad and sweet
    For knowing such poor neighbors enjoy for once a treat.

QUE.

He was a wee bit of a boy to carry the United States mail on his back, seven miles, every day.
He was only eleven years old, and as long, to an inch, as the mail bag, which was just three
feet and eleven inches long. When he went along the road, you would sometimes see him, and
sometimes the bag; that was as you happened to be on this or the other side of him. Many persons'
hard hearts have been made to open a crevice, at sight of the little fellow, to let a little
jet of pity spirt out for him. But "The Point" ran out three miles and a half to the south
of the county road and the stage coach, and the nearest coach post-office; and because it was
only a small point, and sparsely settled, it couldn't afford a horse for the short distance;
and because it was a short distance, no man, or boy, who was able to do a full day's work,
would break into it to walk the seven miles; and because it was seven miles, no one who was
not well could walk so far every day, and the year round. So it happened that the job was up
for bids one spring, and the person who would carry the mail from Gingoo to the Point for the
smallest amount of money, was to have it for a year.

One woman offered to carry it for eighty dollars; another for seventy; one big boy offered
for sixty-five; he'd make the girls at home do the work, he said,--they hadn't anything else
to do,--and he would give them each a new ribbon to pay for it: and between you and me, I am
very glad that that boy didn't get the job.

Without saying a word to his family about it, Que made up his mind that he would carry the
mail himself. When the others sent in their bids he sent in his, for fifty dollars. So it happened
that Que was mail-carrier. He was so little and bow-legged, that there were not many things
that he could do; for instance, he couldn't run. His head and feet were very large, and his
arms and intermediate body very small; therefore he could dream and wonder what he should do
when he grew up, and walk (with care) as much as he pleased, but was not a favorite among the
boys in playing games.

Of course he was not baptized into the name Que, but was called, by his parents and the christening
minister, John Quincy Adams Pond, Jr.; named for his father, you see. They began to call him
Que before he was out of his babyhood; for they had one boy named John Lee, but as they always
called him Lee, they entirely forgot that fact till after the ceremony of Que's christening.
And they really weren't much to blame, for they had nine other boys, and poor memories; and
though both are misfortunes, they can't be helped. To avoid mixing their two Johns, they called
one Lee and the other Que.

Que looked upon seven miles a day as no walk at all, and upon fifty dollars a year as a fortune,
and upon "United States mail-carrier" as a title little below "Hon." or "Esq." He had hoped,
all his life, that he should, some fine day, have a right to one or the other of these titles.
Probably the fact that his name already ended with a "Jr." excited his ambition in that particular
direction. Money and dignity seemed to Que the two things most to be desired in life, unless
I might add a small family.

Now, we will leave Que's antecedents behind, and go on to his life while he carried the mail;
and a very queer little life it was, as you will say when you get to the end of it, though
I don't know when that will be, for Que isn't there himself yet. The mail contract was from
July 1, 1860, to July 1, 1861, and if your mathematics are in good running order, you will
see that that was just a year.

July 1, 1860, was as fine a day in Gingoo as any day in the year; and Que was in as high spirits
as on any day in the course of his life. Unfortunately the mail coach reached Gingoo exactly
at forty minutes past eleven, unless the driver got drunk or fell asleep, which happened about
two hundred and forty days in the year. But whether sober, drunk, or asleep, the four coach
horses always stood before Gingoo office door by twelve o'clock at latest.

It makes no difference to you or to me when the coach stood there; but it made a great deal
of difference to Que, for twelve o'clock on the finest day in the year, and that day the first
of July, is apt to be rather warm; and in the year 1860 it was very warm. Nevertheless, at
quarter past twelve, Que started with the bag. I, happening to be at the right side of him,
saw only the bag start with Que.

Perhaps you don't see why Que should have started right in the heat of the day; but if you
had been Que, and could have heard all the Pointers clamoring for their mail, you would have
started just when Que did. The mail-bag was made of very dark leather, and drew the sun tremendously.
Now, as Que had on a pair of light linen pants and a little gray lined coat, of course he ought
to have walked between the bag and the sun; but not being a scientific boy, he didn't think
of that, and slung the bag over his sunny shoulder, and from that height it trailed to the ground.

Que walked on as fast as he could, trying not to think too much of the heat and the weight;
but the peculiar odor that the sun brought from the leather bag was blown up his nose, and
down his throat, and into his ears, by a strong south wind that blew, and before Que had time
to think whether he had better or better not, he was lying fast asleep by the side of the road,
on the grass; rather he was lying on the mail-bag, and that was lying on the grass. Why didn't
he fall on the other side? For two reasons; first, he was attracted mail-bag way by the sleepy
odor before spoken of; and secondly, the weight was all that way, and as he began to sleep
before he began to drop, of course the bag was his natural bed when he did drop.

The Point road was lonesome, and it must have been quite an hour before any one came that way.
Then a man and two horses, and a cart loaded high with laths, were seen coming over the hill;
that is, they would have been seen, if Que hadn't been asleep just then.

"Hollo! what's all this?" said the driver when he got opposite the bag and Que.

"All this" neither stirred nor spoke.

"Whoa! whoa, there!" called the driver to his horses.

Now, if Que had been taking only a light, after-dinner nap, he would have been wide awake as
soon as the cart stopped; for the hill was a long one, and the rumbling had been as long, and
merely from lack of that lullaby, a well-conditioned boy should have wakened at once. But Que
didn't.

"I declare," said the driver, "if it ain't that bran new mail-boy!" Thereupon he went up and
looked at him; but not being of a magnetic temperament, he didn't wake Que that way.

"Bless the chick, if he isn't dead asleep," continued the driver, talking to himself. This
driver had a habit of talking to himself, for he said, "then he was always sure of having somebody
worth talking to."

"Now, won't those Pointers growl for their mail, when it is a couple of hours late? The first
day, too! Que'll catch it." Then he gave Que a little roll, so that he rolled from the bag
over into the grass.

"Well, I always was a good-natured fellow. Guess I'll take his bag along for him, and save
him the scolding."

So the driver threw the bag on top of the load of laths, and left the bag-boy to sleep it out.

When Que had slept half an hour longer, he started up, staring wide awake.

"I've been asleep," said Que; and so he had.

"My bag's been and gone," continued Que; and so it had.

But he was a bright boy, and all the brighter, perhaps, for having just been asleep; so he
looked round, which is a very good thing to do when you get into trouble, and the very thing
that half the people in the world never think to do.

"There are tracks in the grass; and there is a cart-track in the dust, and it had two horses,
and these foot-tracks went back to it. Why, the lath man must have taken it;" and so he had.

Que started towards the Point as fast as he could go, and consequently, when he got there,
which was just fifty minutes after the bag got there, he had no breath left to ask any questions
about it. Still he panted on to the post-office.

"Who are you?" asked the postmaster.

"I'm--a--bag," gasped Que.

"Bag of wind!" said the postmaster, emphatically.

"A--mail--bag!" said Que.

"Humph! So you're the new mail boy--are you? Send your bag down by express, and came yourself
by accommodation--didn't you?"

"The lath man's got it; where is he?" Que had recovered his breath a little by this time.

"I don't know anything about the lath man," growled the postmaster.

But when Que began to cry, which he did at once, the postmaster couldn't stand that, for he
had no children of his own, and his feelings, consequently, weren't hardened; so he dragged
the bag from a corner, and threw it on Que's back.

"There, take your bag, and go home, and don't be two hours late the first day, next time."
He didn't stop to think that there cannot be two first days to the same thing. Que didn't stop
to think of it, either, but started homewards as fast as his bow-legs would let him. I think
he approximated more nearly to running, that day, than he ever had done in his life before.

Que's nine brothers treated him with great respect, when he got home. The family had been to
tea, but each one had saved some part of his supper for Que; so, though he had an indigestible
mixture, there was plenty of it,--while it lasted.

"Did you have a good time, Que?"

"Was it fun?"

"Did you get anything for it?"

"Did you get tired?"

"Going to keep it up?"

"Can't I go next time?"

"Do you like it?"

"Did you see any boys?"

"Anybody give you a lift?"

How all together the questions did come! But the confusion of them saved Que from the trouble
of answering the nine boys, and as soon as there was a lull, his father said,--

"You were gone some time, sir; I hope you didn't stop to play on the road?"

"O, no, sir," said Que. "I haven't played at all;" which was very true, you know.

"Did there seem to be many letters?" asked his mother; and be it understood, that she asked
quite as much because Que looked as if the bag had been heavy, as from feminine curiosity.

"Didn't notice, ma'am; the bag wasn't very heavy;" and it wasn't, except on his conscience,
and he knew his mother didn't mean that, at all.

For several weeks after that everything went on smoothly enough. Que had a pretty good time,
and found it some fun, and felt that he was getting something for it, and didn't get very tired,
and kept it up, and never took any of his brothers with him, and liked the business, and saw
a good many boys, and got a large number of "lifts" from hay-carts and wagons, and particularly
from the lath man. So, in course of time, all the brothers' questions were satisfactorily answered.

It is a way that the world has, to let you trip once, and then run on smooth ground some time,
before it puts another snag in your way; and it made no exception in Que's favor. His drab
clothes kept clean a long time, in spite of the leather bag, and washed well when they were
not clean. The Gingoo postmaster took a fancy to him, and the Point post master refrained from
tormenting him. The mails were not unbearably heavy nor the month of July remarkably hot after
the first. Que had a good appetite for his supper, and plenty of supper to show it on, and
slept long and heavily every night and a part of every morning, and thought that the world
was a pretty good kind of place, after all. But that was only because he hadn't come to the
second snag yet.

One day, in the first end of August, a wind sprang up. It wasn't a very uncommonly high wind,
only no one was expecting it, because the days had been muggy, and that made every one say,
"Why, what a high wind there is to-day!"

You and I can't tell why the wind should have gone on rising through the forenoon; but we can
guess, which will answer our purpose just as well; for you know it is but little more than
that that your father and his friends, and father's father and his friends, do, when they meet
together and "express opinions."

I guess that the wind rose higher through the forenoon because, as soon as it began to play
about in the morning, it caught the whisper of people's surprise, and thought it would take
the hint, and blow them up a little.

"What a dickens of a wind!" said Que, when he stood, or tried to stand, on top of the hill
with his bag.

Que had learned all the easy ways of carrying that bag long ago; of strapping it in a little
roll over his shoulders when it wasn't very full; of carrying it on his head when it had enough
inside to balance just right, and of strapping it round his body when it had nothing in it.
But, as the days had been all stormless alike, he had been obliged to adapt himself only to
the conditions of the bag, and not at all to the state of the weather.

As the masculine mind is capable of taking in only one idea at a time, as soon as Que put his
mind to the state of the weather, it drew itself away from the manner of carrying the bag.

"Wish I had something between me and the wind," sighed he.

Just then the wind blew off his hat, to teach him the polite order of mentioning two persons,
of whom himself was one.

Que followed after it as fast as he could, and let the bag drop beside him, and by chance it
hung from his neck to the windward side.

The wind blew very strong.

"I do declare," said he, "I shouldn't wonder a bit if the wind blew me away."

Que was a truthful boy; but he did wonder very much when he found, two seconds afterwards,
that the wind was blowing him away. But he didn't wonder at all, when he lay, a minute later,
against a huge apple tree; partly because people generally get through wondering when they
are at the end of anything, but mostly because the blow stunned Que, so that he didn't know
anything for an hour.

When he gradually came to himself, he didn't know where he was. Then a little wind shook a
green apple down on his nose, and he concluded that he was under an apple tree; which was quite
correct.

Then he looked about to see whether he was in the United States or not; he saw the five juniper
trees that had been standing in a row, half a mile from his father's house, ever since he could
remember, and concluded that he must be; wherein he was again quite correct.

Then he wondered if any one would come for him, for he felt so stiff and sore that he thought
he never could go home alone.

"They'll come for me, I know; for if I've had a gale they must have had one; and if they have
had one they'll know that I've had one. Of course they'll come."

Que felt round for his mail-bag, and got his head on it, and waited. While he was lying there
it occurred to him that the people down in the village wouldn't have been walking about with
bags broader than themselves to windward of them, and mightn't have felt the breeze as he did;
so his last reasoning wasn't correct at all.

"I'll bet they didn't feel it a bit!" thought Que; and by this time he was so fully in possession
of his original faculties, that his reasoning was quite correct again. No one else had felt
the gale.

Que put his head on the bag and thought that his end had come, and so cried himself to sleep.

His family had not felt the gale very heavily; but when tea-time came, and Que didn't, they
felt that; and when darkness came, and Que didn't, they felt that; and when a report came,
with a growl, from the Point that they wanted their mail, Que's father started out with a lantern
to find it.

Que, having finished his nap, felt better, and tried to get up; but his ankle didn't want to
move; and when he tried again it actually wouldn't move; so he lay down again to wait and watch.
When he saw the lantern go by, he called, and his father came.

"What are you doing here, sir?"

"Nothing," said Que.

"Get up, then."

"I can't," said Que.

"You've been asleep, sir."

"Yes, sir," said Que.

"What have you done with the mail-bag?"

"It is the mail-bag that's done with me," said Que.

Then his father took him by the collar, and stood him up, and saw at once what was the matter.
Que had sprained his ankle.

It seemed to Que, during the next four weeks, as if that ankle never would heal; but it did
at last, and John Lee, who had carried the mail in the mean time, was loath to give the job
to Que again. He felt for Que through his pain, but charged him one twelfth of fifty dollars
for doing his work a month, and would like to do it a while longer.

There isn't much more to tell of Que as a mail-boy. The end of the year found him the possessor
of forty-five dollars and five shillings.

The next year the Point afforded a horse, and Que took the mail on the horse's back; the year
following they had a horse and wagon, and Que drove that; when they have a railway I have no
doubt Que will be a conductor; and when the mail is blown through a tunnel, Que, of course,
will blow it.

Even the second snag, you see, needn't lay you a dead weight on the earth.

                                             MARY B. HARRIS.

WHAT THE CLOCK SAYS.

    The clock's loud tick
    Says, "Time flies quick."
    "Listen," says the chime;
    "Make the most of time,
    For remember, young and old,
    Minutes are like grains of gold;
    Spend them wisely, spend them well,
    For their worth can no man tell."

THE SNOW-FALL.

    Old Winter comes forth in his robe of white,
    He sends the sweet flowers far out of sight,
    He robs the trees of their green leaves quite,
        And freezes the pond and the river;
    He has spoiled the butterfly's pretty nest,
    And ordered the birds not to build their nest,
    And banished the frog to a four months' rest,
        And makes all the children shiver.

    Yet he does some good with his icy tread,
    For he keeps the corn-seeds warm in their bed,
    He dries up the damp which the rain had spread,
        And renders the air more healthy;
    He taught the boys to slide, and he flung
    Rich Christmas gifts o'er the old and young,
    And when cries for food from the poor were wrung,
        He opened the purse of the wealthy.

    We like the Spring with its fine fresh air;
    We like the Summer with flowers so fair;
    We like the fruits we in Autumn share,
        And we like, too, old Winter's greeting:
    His touch is cold, but his heart is warm;
    So, though he brings to us snow and storm,
    We look with a smile on his well-known form,
        And ours is a gladsome meeting.

[Decoration]

STITCHING AND TEACHING.

Will had had the croup. Then the measles took possession of him, and lastly, the whooping-cough,
finding him well swept and garnished, entered in, and shook and throttled him in a manner quite
deplorable.

His convalescence, however, was relieved of its monotony by a headlong fall from a step ladder
in the library, whereby he sprained his wrist, to say nothing of the mischief that he made,
in his descent, amid the ink, books, and papers.

Treading on a pin in the sewing-room was another diversion in his favor, giving him, for a
while, a daily looking forward to bandages and poultices, and an opportunity to weigh the advantages
of obedience in case he should ever again wish, and be forbidden, to jump out of bed and run
barefoot amid the dressmaker's shreds in search of his top.

Now, all this is no uncommon experience for a small boy. I simply mention it by way of apology
for introducing Will in an unamiable mood. One regrets to have one's friends make an unfavorable
first impression.

This was Will's first morning at school since his recovery. He found that the boys had gone
on in their Latin, had gone on in their French, leaving him far behind; they had got into decimals,
and he way back pages; they had a new writing-master, and wrote with their faces turned a new
way, to the great disgust of Will. They had had a botany excursion to Blue Hills, which he
had lost. He was down at the foot of the class, and at the end of the morning he had made up
his desperate mind to remain there forever. It was no use for a fellow to try to put through
such a pile of back lessons.

He came stamping up stairs, kicked at the nursery door, slung in his bag of books, and stood
on the threshold, pouting and glaring angrily at his sister Emily.

Emily sat in the window opposite, the sunlight sifting through the flickering ivy leaves on
to her golden hair and fair sweet face. She was singing over her sewing as Will made his noisy
entrance. She looked up at the scowling boy in the doorway, her pale cheeks flushing with surprise
and then with pity.

"What's the matter?" she asked, gently.

"Matter?" roared Will; "I guess you'd ask, if you knew how old 'Crit' had been cramming the
fellows, and me nowhere. I'll--run away to sea, or somewheres. I'm not going to stand it."

Will bounced his hand down so hard on a tea-poy, two little terra cotta shepherdesses bounded
up from it, knocked their heads together, and fell clattering to the floor.

"O, Will," cried Emily, rising up with a scared face, and dropping her pretty work-basket,
"don't talk so. You are tired now, and everything troubles you, because you have been sick
so long. By and by, when you are a little stronger, you will feel differently. Don't think
about the back lessons. Just try to be glad you are well enough to go to school again, and
be with the boys."

"O, don't preach!" persisted Will, gruffly.

With the cloud still hanging over his handsome face, he shook himself away from the caressing
hand which was laid upon his shoulder, as if to hold him back from running away to the great,
pitiless sea.

"Asy! asy, now!"

This was Kathleen, the nurse, calling out in cautioning tones to Will, who had jerked against
the tray she was carrying causing the two saucers of strawberries to click together sharply,
and the buttered rolls to slip over the edge of the plate.

"You're tired with the school, poor craythur, an' no wonder at that same. Larnin's murtherin',
bad luck to it! I tried it mysel oncet, a moonth or so, avenin's. It's myself was watchin'
for ye, Master Will, and when ye came round the corner I had this bit sup arl ready for ye.
'The crame--quick--Bridget!' says I, and then I ran away up the two flights with it; and barrin'
the joggle you give it, it's in foine, tip-top orther an' priservation arl tegither, bless
your little sowl!"

Kathleen set out the crisp little rolls and the great crimson berries in the most tempting
way she could devise, and went off, bobbing her head with satisfaction to see the children
place themselves at table, and partake of her well-timed lunch.

Will, as an atonement for the ungentle way in which he had come in upon his sister after school,
offered her the nicest plate of berries, and insisted that she should take the crispiest roll.
He suddenly remembered that Emily, too, had had whooping-cough and measles at the same time,
and quite as badly as himself. But, then, she had not sprained her wrist or lamed her foot;
so it was no wonder her temper had not suffered. Besides, it was expected of girls not to make
a fuss.

In view of these last circumstances, he suppressed the apology he was about to make for his
late unpleasant remarks.

"It never will do to give up too much to girls," he reasoned, draining the last drop of cream
from the pitcher.

"Your grandmamma is coming over from Brookline this afternoon in the carriage, to take the
two of you home with her to spind the night."

This was Kathleen back again at the nursery door, and wiping her face with her apron as she
unburdened herself of this forgotten bit of news.

"You won't run away to sea now," besought Emily, with imploring eyes.

"Maybe I mightn't," shouted Will, tossing up his cap in glee at this unexpected prospect of fun.

It was now only the middle of the long summer day. Such a tiresome journey as the sun had to
go before it rolled quite away in the west! Will longed to give it a push, and to hurry up
the clock to strike five, the hour when they should be on their way to beautiful Brookline.

Impatient little Will! Emily kindly helped him to get through with the lagging time. At her
suggestion, he played ball a while on the lawn, while from time to time she nodded encouragingly
to him through the open window. By and by the ball bounded up into a spout, cuddling down among
some soft old maple leaves, where Will could not see it. Thereupon Will came into the house
in a great pet, storming about till he was persuaded to sit on the floor and paste pictures
in his scrap-book.

This quiet occupation did not amuse him long. His fingers, his chin, his cheeks, his curls
even soon became stiff with mucilage. Mucilage on his trouser knees, mucilage on his jacket
elbows--in fact, mucilage everywhere on and around him.

Emily, after having, with great painstaking, washed her brother and all the surrounding furniture,
proposed that he should study a Latin lesson. The book soon went down with a bang. "Because,"
as Will sulkily explained to his sighing sister, "it made his head buzz."

Emily gently suggested a French lesson as a corrective of this unpleasant "buzz." The remedy
soon proved to be a failure. The French book came down more noisily than the Latin book.

Emily laid aside her drawing in despair. It was such a relief to hear Kathleen's heavy step
in the entry, and to remember it was time now for Will to be dressed for dinner!

Poor Kathleen had a thankless task before her. Master Will required a great deal of preparation.
His curls were gummed and tangled; his fingers were inky, and suspiciously pitchy.

"You've been climbin' unknownst up that pine tree again, an' you a told not to?" questioned
Kathleen, examining the fingers keenly.

"Hush up, and go ahead!" was Will's rude answer.

"How can you speak so?" reproved Emily, turning round upon Will, while she tied back her hair
with a band of blue ribbon.

"Fie, fie, sir!" cried displeased Kathleen, "going ahead" with great energy, her mouth pursed
up in disapproval of Master Will's manners, while she washed, and combed, and curled, and took
off and put on his apparel.

"Where's your stockings, Master Will,--the blue stripes?"

"Dunno."

Will sat in a low chair, his stubby bare feet stuck out before him, and his two hands actively
employed as fly-catchers. Suddenly he remembered having amused himself the day before in oiling
his sled runners, using the striped stockings for wipers; but he did not trouble Kathleen just
then with the tidings. The blue-striped stockings were not found. Then came a difficulty with
his new boots.

"Aow! they pinch!"

"Where, sir?"

Master Will, not being able to say exactly where, was left to get used to the new boots as
well as he could.

"Now see, here's your new suit; an' be careful with it, mind--careful as iver was. It's me
afternoon out; and if ye go tearin' the cloos on ye, ye'll jist mind thim yersel, or else go
in tatthers wid yer grandmamma."

This speech had no more wholesome effect on Will than to cause him to stick out his tongue
at Emily, while Kathleen, standing behind him, arranged his buttons and his drapery generally.

"Now, if you could only be as good as you're purty," exclaimed Kathleen, wheeling Will suddenly
round before his tongue was quite in place again, "you'd do well enough."

With a few finishing touches to Emily's sash ribbon, Kathleen went off to make her own gorgeous
toilet for her afternoon out.

The dinner was next to be gotten through with. But that was not an unpleasant hour to Will.
After dinner the children were permitted by their mother to amuse themselves under the shadow
of the great elm behind the house. She knew that with Emily this permission simply meant liberty
to sit quietly beneath the overhanging branches, gazing dreamily over the soft summer landscape,
or listening to the sweet sounds that stirred the air around and above her. But with Will it
might be more broadly interpreted into leave for frequent raids over fences and through bars
for butterflies and beetles, or any luckless rover that strayed along. So she explained to
her son in this wise:--

"Will, dear, remember that your grandmamma is coming for you, and you must not soil or tear
your clothes by running about. Play quietly in the shade. The time will not be long now."

"Yes, mum."

Such implicit obedience as this "Yes, mum" implied! In fact, there was the promise in it of
every one of the cardinal virtues.

The two children then went away through the long hall, whose doors stood wide open in the warm
summer afternoon, and Will, dragging along the slower-footed Emily, hurried on to the elm tree.

"Don't pull so, Will; I shall drop my basket, and my spool and thimble will roll away."

"What do you want to bother with work for this beautiful afternoon?" inquired Will, slackening
his pace.

"I promised mamma I would try and finish it this week," said Emily, "and I like to keep my word."

"I thought the machine sewed."

"So it does; but mamma says I must learn just the same as if there were no machines."

"Well, I'm glad I'm not a girl, to sit pricking my fingers, and jabbing needles in and out
all day."

Patience was not one of Will's virtues.

How lovely it was out under the elm! The sweet-scented grass was warm with the afternoon sun,
and musical with the chirp and hum of its insect homes. The bees fluttered in and out over
mamma's rose garden, and all the air was filled with the delicate fragrance of the roses.

Emily, seated on the great gnarled elm roots, drank in all the sweet scents and sounds, her
forgotten work-basket lying overturned in the grass before her. Will spread himself out at
full length on the ground, and kept his eyes open for chippers and spiders, and all the busy
little things that crept, or leaped, or flitted around him. Now and then the afternoon hush
was broken by the faintly tinkling bells of a horse-car turning some distant corner, the rumbling
of a heavy team going over the dusty turnpike, or the voices of the belfry clocks calling the
hour to each other from the steeples of the neighboring city.

Master Will, however, soon became tired of this quiet. He scrambled up, and wandering away
into the rose garden, lifted caressingly to his cheek the beautiful pink blossoms which leaned
towards him from amid the green leaves. He was looking for a choice little bud to fasten in
Emily's hair; and when he found it, he came whistling out into the clear grassy spaces again,
a little bird in a bough overhead tilting, and twittering, and eying him askance.

Will rushed up to Emily, and hung the bud in her ear; he rearranged it in the blue ribbon of
her hair, so that it nodded sleepily over her nose; he dropped it, as if it were a tiny pink
egg, in the soft golden moss of curls which he upturned on his sister's head. Then he threw
it away, and stamped on it; for Emily had drawn a book from her pocket, and deep in some fairy
under-world story, was unmindful of his roses and his pains.

He ran recklessly away into the rose garden; he caught a bumblebee; he pursued a daddy long-leg
with the watering-pot, going deeper and deeper all the time among the briery branches. The
crashing of the stems caused Emily to come up from fairy-land a moment.

"Have a care, Will, dear. The roses have thorns. You may tear your nice jacket."

Crash, crash! rip, rip! The rose trees are dragging at Will with their prickly fingers. With
great effort he burst away from them, and rushed out, with no worse mischance than a rent in
his trousers.

"Aw! aw! aw!"

All the little knolls seemed to take up Will's sorrowful cry, and repeat it.

"You must not tear or soil your clothes."

Every cricket in the grass seemed to be screaming these words of his mother, and here was her
luckless son with two green spots on his stockings, and a grievous rent in his new pantaloons.

It was Kathleen's afternoon out; she had warned him, and there was no help in that direction.
He looked mournfully over his shoulder at the damages with a vague idea that he had perhaps
some undeveloped capacity for mending.

"Couldn't you pin it up nicely?" he inquired, in most insinuating tones, of Emily, whose eye
just then met his.

Emily burst into a merry laugh.

Will was mute with indignation, and tingling to his finger's ends, with this untimely mirth.
His flashing eyes asked if this were a time for jesting.

"Come here, Willy, boy, and you'll see how nicely I'll sew it, not pin it. Never fret about
it, dear; I will explain to mamma that you were really not so much in fault. It was only rather
a mistake to get in so far among the bushes. If you had been chasing the cat, or turning somersets,
she might, perhaps, be vexed; but poh! she will excuse this."

Will, unseen by Emily, wiped away with his thumb one big tear after another out of the corner
of his eye.

"She is a good sister, anyhow, and I am a mean fellow ever to get mad with her, and say rude
things to her," he said to himself, as Emily darned, and chatted, and bade him be of good cheer.

"My stockings, too, sister. There's a great green grass stain on both of them, and grandmamma
expects us to be so nice."

Will coughed to choke down a sob.

"Perhaps you may have time to change them, Will. I will help you. But we must get the pantaloons
all nicely done first."

So this kind sister stitched, and taught unconsciously as she stitched, lessons of love and
patience, lessons of cheerful helpfulness and sweet unselfishness, which Will never forgot.

More than once, in after life, when, in heedless pursuit of life's roses, he had been wounded
by its thorns, he remembered that sweet face of consolation, those dear hands held out to aid
him, and all the sunshine and the song of that sweet summer afternoon, and fresh peace and
hope came to him with the remembrance.

"It's all finished now, the very last stitch; and now for the stockings. Let me see the spots."

Will put his two heels firmly together, turned out his toes, pulled up his puffy pantaloons,
and stooped his head and strained his eyes to look for them.

They were but little ones, after all, and a brisk rubbing with the handkerchief, and a judicious
pulling down of the trouser bindings, almost concealed them. They were just in time with their
repairs; for grandmamma's yellow-wheeled carriage was coming up the avenue.

                                                    E. G. C.

OUR DAILY BREAD.

    A little girl knelt down to pray
      One morn. The mother said,
    "My love, why do we ever say,
      Give us our daily bread?
    Why not ask for a week or more?"
      The baby bent her head
    In thoughtful mood towards the floor:
      "We want it fresh," she said.

WILLIE'S PRAYER.

    One sweet morning little Willie,
      Springing from his trundle-bed,
    Bounded to the vine-wreathed window
      And put out his sunny head.

    It was in the joyous spring-time,
      When the sky was soft and fair,
    And the blue-bird and the robin
      Warbled sweetly everywhere.

    In the field the lambs were playing,
      Where the babbling brook ran clear;
    To and fro, in leafy tree-tops,
      Squirrels frisked without a fear.

    In his ear his baby-brother
      Baby-wonders tried to speak,
    And the kiss of a fond mother
      Rested on his dimpled cheek.

    Zephyrs from the fragrant lilacs
      Fanned his little rosy face,
    And the heart's-ease, gemmed with dewdrops,
      Smiled at him with gentle grace.

    Gliding back with fairy footsteps,
      Willie, dropping on his knees,
    Softly prayed, "Dear God, I love you!
      Make it always happy, please!"

SQUIRRELS.

How pretty little squirrels look perched in the branches of a tree! I like to watch them as
they nimbly run up the trunk or spring from bough to bough. One or two are generally to be
seen in a clump of great old beeches near a house in the country where I usually spend some
happy weeks in summer; and I will tell you a story of a little squirrel whose acquaintance
I made there last summer.

I happened to be up very early one morning, long before breakfast was ready or any of the family
were down, and I went out into the garden to enjoy the fresh, sweet smell of the early day.
The cows were grazing in the field beyond, and now and then lowing a friendly "good-morning"
to each other. Some ducks were waddling in procession down to the pond, quacking out their
wise remarks as they went. The little birds were singing lustily their welcome to the new-born
day. Even the old watch-dog came yawning, stretching, blinking and wagging his tail in kindly
dog-fashion to bid me "good-day" in the summer sunshine.

As I stood under the great beech trees, taking in with greedy eye and ear the sights and sounds
of country-life so refreshing to a Londoner, I heard something fall from one of the trees,
then a scuffle, and immediately afterward a white Persian cat belonging to the house bounded
toward me in hot pursuit of a dear little squirrel. I was just in time to save the poor little
animal by stepping between it and the cat. The squirrel passed under the edge of my dress and
made off again up another tree; so pussy lost her prey.

Soon afterward, when we were at breakfast, the butler told us that one of the little boys of
the village, who had lost a pet squirrel, had asked if he might look for it in the garden of
the house. It had first escaped into some trees in the park, and he had traced it from them
into the garden. It at once occurred to me that this must be the little creature I had saved
from the cat. I remembered how it made straight toward me, as if asking me for protection from
its enemy, which only a tame squirrel would do; and I proposed, when breakfast was over, that
we should go out and help in the search.

Little Jack Tompkins stood under the beech trees, looking with tear-stained face up into the
branches. Suddenly I saw his face brighten, and he called out, "I see un, ma'am; I see un!
If so be no one warn't by, I be sure he'd come to I."

I need not say we retreated to a distance; then Jack called up the tree in a loud whisper,
"Billee, Billee!" and in a minute down came the little creature on to his shoulder. I can tell
you Jack was a happier child than he had been when he came into the garden. And when I told
him what a narrow escape "Billee" had had from the cat, he said, "It would be hard if a cat
eat he, for our old puss brought he up with her own kits." Then he told us how the squirrel,
when a tiny thing, had dropped out of its nest and been found by him lying almost dead at the
foot of a tree, and how he had carried it home and tried whether pussy would adopt it as one
of her own kittens. The cat was kind; the squirrel throve under her motherly care, and became
Jack's pet and companion.

Now, children, in this instance it was all very well to keep a tame squirrel. "Billee" seemed
happy leading the life he was accustomed to; he had been fed and cared for by human beings
from his infancy, and might be as incapable of finding food and managing for himself in a wild
state as a poor canary would be if let loose from its cage. But generally it is cruel to imprison
little wild birds and animals who have known the enjoyment of liberty.

PUPPET.

Puppet had two occupations. She had also a guitar and a half-bushel basket. These things were
her capital--her stock in trade.

The guitar belonged to one of her occupations, the half-bushel basket to the other.

In consideration of her first employment, she might have been called a street guitarist. In
consideration of her second, she might have been called a beggar--a broken-bits beggar.

Puppet would have been considered, among lawyers, "shrewd;" or, at a mothers' meeting, "cunning;"
or, among business men, "sharp." That is to say, she knew a thing or two. She knew that being
able to sing no songs was a disadvantage to her first occupation, as a large hole, half way
up her basket, was an advantage to her second.

It seems odd that a hole in one's begging basket should be an advantage.

But because of the hole, she had always behind her a crowd of dogs, that seemed to have been
just dropped from the basket, the last one never having fairly got his nose out; and because
of the dogs she was known as "Puppet" all over the city.

To be known by a characteristic name is of great advantage to a beggar.

If Biddy, looking from the basement door, says to cook, "Och, an' there comes up the street
our little Puppet, with her dogs all behind her, carrying her basket," cook is much more likely
to see the broken bits "botherin' roun' on the schalves o' the cubbid," than she would be if
Biddy should say, "Shure, an' thir cams to us a dirty beggar, it is."

But it is with Puppet's first occupation, and not her second, that we have to do. If you had
not read more descriptions of faces within the last year than you can possibly remember in
all the years of your life put together, I would tell you what sort of face Puppet's was; that
it was a bright face, with blue eyes, just the color of the blue ribbon that went first round
the guitar's neck, and then round Puppet's; that Puppet's teeth were as white as the mother-of-pearl
pegs that held her guitar strings at the bottom; that her cheeks were as white as the ivory
keys; that her hair was long, and yellow--just the shade of the guitar's yellow face.

But that would be very much like a dozen other faces that you have seen; so I will only say
that it was a smiling little face.

It smiled as it bent over the guitar, while the little fingers picked their ways in and out
among the strings; and it smiled yet more sweetly as she looked up to catch the coppers thrown
from the fourth and fifth story, and sky-parlor windows.

Puppet once lived with a man who said that he was her uncle; and she believed him so thoroughly,
that she let him box her ears whenever he felt like it, till he died. Since then Puppet had
lived almost friendless and alone.

One hot July day Puppet was wandering through the streets of the great city, with her little
guitar under her little arm. The city did not seem so great to Puppet as it does to some of
the rest of us, because she was born and brought up there.

"O, dear," sighed Puppet, "what a mean place you are!"

No one had given her a copper since the cool of the morning. People seemed to have a fancy
for spending their coppers on soda-water and ice-cream.

"What shall I do?" moaned Puppet. Whatever should she do? Puppet must have coppers, or she
could not live.

She sat in a cool, shaded court, close to the busy street; but she couldn't get away from the
heat, and the noise, and the people sighing, like herself, "O dear, O dear!"

"I'll try once more," said Puppet, tuning her guitar.

She played "Home, Sweet Home," with variations. But all the people who heard her were suffering,
because their homes in the city were rather hot than sweet. "Home, Sweet Home" could win no
pennies from "city folks" in July.

Then Puppet whistled to her guitar accompaniment a little "Bird Waltz," and whirled on the
pavement in time, till I doubt if she herself knew whether the guitar had gone mad, and were
waltzing about her, or she were waltzing about the guitar.

A boy came dancing into the court, singing,--

    "O, whistle, and I'll come to you, my lad!
    O, whistle, and I'll come to you, my lad!"

But he danced out again, without leaving a penny behind him; so it would have been just as
well if he had never come in. Still, he amused himself for a few minutes, which not many people
were able to do in that hot July midday.

Puppet went from the little court, and wandered on and on. At last she left the city far away
behind her.

And out and away from the city there were green fields.

Puppet had heard of green fields, but she had never seen any face to face before. As she looked
at them, she had a dim remembrance that she had heard that they were covered with long, waving
grass. But all these fields were close shaven, like the beautiful mouse-colored horses in the city.

It was pleasant, but not very exciting to a city girl. The city girl presently grew tired of it.

"There seem to be houses farther along," she said; "I'll go and play there."

Puppet slung the little guitar about her little neck, and started off again.

Presently she came to a cottage with a little green yard in front of it, and in the middle
of the little green yard was a great green tree.

Puppet sat down on the grass, leaned against the tree, and felt very hungry.

A lady was sitting by an open window, sewing. She was sitting so that Puppet could see only
a bit of her left cheek, and her dark hair, just beginning to turn gray, and her right hand
as she brought the needle up from her work. From what she did see, Puppet thought that she
would give her something to eat, if she could but get her attention. Surely, she must be often
hungry herself, or why should she have so many gray hairs?

Puppet, leaning against the tree, ran her fingers over the guitar frets in light harmonies;
but the lady did not look.

Her thoughts must be far away, in a quiet and happy place, that Puppet's harmonies should seem
a part of that place.

The guitar broke into a low, mournful minor. Still the lady gave no heed to Puppet.

Puppet was feeling very hungry. She would play the Fandango. That must rouse any one. She began
at the most rattling part.

The gray-haired lady looked round quickly. "Bless me, bless me! what's this?" Seeing a little
girl out by the tree, she put her sewing on the table, and came to the door and into the yard.

"Dear me! a little girl with yellow hair, and I just to have been dreaming of a little girl
with yellow hair!"

"Is anything the matter with my hair, mum?" Puppet stopped playing, and ran her hands through
the yellow mass of uncombed locks.

"Ah, no, little girl! there is nothing the matter with your hair. Only--" The lady was thinking
how soft, and fine, and curly was the yellow hair of which she had been dreaming.

"What do you want?" asked the lady.

"I'm very hungry," said Puppet, "because of the walk, and--and--and all," concluded Puppet,
remembering that the lady could not understand.

"Come in, then."

Puppet went in. Up in one corner of the sitting-room were a little tip-cart and a doll. Puppet
ate her bread and meat, looking hard at the tip-cart.

"Where is it, mum?"

"Where is what, child?"

"The child, mum." Puppet pointed to the tip-cart.

"Gone, my dear," said the lady, softly.

"Dead?" Puppet remembered that that was what they said about her uncle when he went away. It
was the only going away that she had ever known.

"Yes, I suppose so," said the lady, with a little shiver.

"That's bad, mum."

"No, not bad," said the lady, sorrowfully. "It is just right that it should be so."

"But it must be lonesome like, unless there were kicks and things." Puppet was still thinking
of her uncle.

The lady wondered what the child could mean, and not knowing, said,--

"What's your name? How could I have forgotten to ask your name?"

"Puppet."

"That's a funny name. And where do you live?"

"Two or three miles away from here."

"Have you walked here to-day?"

"Yes, mum."

"What should make the child walk so far, I wonder?"

"Money, mum, and things to eat."

"Have you eaten enough?"

"Yes. I must go home now, or I shall be late."

"Are you sure you know the way?" asked the lady, a little anxiously. "You're such a little thing!"

"O, yes, mum! Go as I came."

"Well, good by."

"Good by, mum."

But was Puppet sure that she knew the way?

       *       *       *       *       *

The next morning, a man walking on a road that ran by the edge of a meadow, was going to his work.

Hark! What did he hear? Was it a cry! was it a child's cry? And what was that? It sounded like
a fiddle. He stopped to look around.

"I declare, we've had a high tide in the night!" said he, and trudged on.

But what was that? That was certainly a child's cry.

The man looked sharply about.

"It can't be she," he said. "Folks from heaven wouldn't cry, even if they were let to come--at
least, if they were little children."

And so he still looked sharply about. And looking, what did he see?

He saw great haystacks of meadow hay out in the meadow, with the tide-water all about them.
Then his eyes were fixed on one particular haystack. On its top, with her yellow hair and smiling
face in sight, was--it could not be, though--but it was--a little girl, and dangling by the
side of the stack was a guitar with a yellow face. The man waded through the water that lay
between the dry land and the stack.

"Crawl down to my shoulders;" and he stood by the side of the stack till she was on his shoulders,
with her arms about his neck.

"How came you there?"

"I went everywhere to try to get home, and it was dark, all but the moon; and I saw the stack,
and a board went from the ground to the top of it."

"Sure enough, the prop."

"And I was so tired!"

"Poor child!"

"And I never saw the water come before, and it was only wet enough to wet my feet when I got up."

"Well, well! We'll go home and get something to eat."

The man walked into his kitchen with the little girl and the guitar on his shoulders.

"Why, John, are you back? Dear me, if there isn't that same child--Puppet!"

John went off to his work again. Puppet ate her breakfast, and told her story, and then said,--

"Please, mum, may I play with the cart?"

And because of her yellow hair, she might play with the cart.

"But aren't you sick, and oughtn't you to take some medicine, and go to bed?" asked the lady,
whose hair had grown gray over sickness and medicine.

Puppet meditated. She felt very well. She thought that she had rather play with the tip-cart
than to take medicine. So she played all day, and went to bed at night.

At night John come home from his work, and, as usual, heard of all that had happened through
the day.

"I wish we could keep the little thing, John, dear. She has yellow hair, just like--"

"Yes," said John, "I saw."

"And she'd be such a comfort!"

"If she didn't die by and by," said John.

"But, John, dear, just think of a little thing like her spending the night in the middle of
a meadow, with the water all about her."

John thought. And he thought that if she could stand that without being sick, she could stand
their love without dying.

So Puppet and the guitar live with John and the gray-haired lady.

MARY B. HARRIS.

MERRY CHRISTMAS.

All the hill-side was green with maples, and birches, and pines. The meadows at its foot were
green, too, with the tufted salt grass, and glittering with the silver threads of tide braided
among its winding creeks. Beyond was the city, misty and gray, stretching its wan arms to the
phantom ships flitting along the horizon.

From the green hill-side you could hear the city's muffled hum and roar, and sometimes the
far-off clanging of the bells from its hundred belfries. But the maples and birches seemed
to hear and see nothing beyond the sunshine over their heads and the winds which went frolicking
by. Life was one long dance with them, through the budding spring and the leafy summer, and
on through the grand gala days of autumn, till the frost came down on the hills, and whispered,--

"Your dancing days are all over."

But the pines were quite different. They, the stately ones, stood quite aloof, the older and
taller ones looking stiffly over the heads of the rollicking maples, and making solemn reverences
to the great gray clouds that swept inland from the ocean. The straight little saplings at
their feet copied the manners of their elders, and folding their fingers primly, and rustling
their stiff little green petticoats decorously, sat up so silent and proper.

So unlike the small birches and maples that chattered incessantly, wagging their giddy heads,
and playing tag with the butterflies in the sunshine all the day long!

"How tiresome those stupid old pines are! No expression, no animation. So lofty and so exclusive,
and forever grumbling to each other in their hoarse old Scandinavian, which it gives one the
croup even to listen to! Of what possible use can they be?"

This was what the maple said to the birch one day when the Summer and her patience with her
sombre neighbor were on the wane--one day when there was a gleam of golden pumpkins in the
tawny corn stubble beyond the wood, and the purpling grapes hung ripening over the old stone
wall that lay between, and the maple had brightened its summer dress with a gay little leaf
set here and there in its shining folds.

The birch agreed with the maple about the pines, and the maple went glibly on.

"I've ordered my autumn dresses--a different one for each day in the week. Just think of those
horrid pines never altering the fashion of their stiff old plaiting."

"We shall not be obliged to remain in this dull place much longer," said the tall pines loftily
to each other, looking quite over the heads of the maple and the birch. "We shall soon be crossing
the ocean, and then our lives will have just begun. We simply vegetate here."

"Ho, ho!" laughed the maple and the birch behind their fluttering green fans, pretending to
be greatly amused at what the west wind was saying to them.

Now, though the trees spoke a different language, yet each understood perfectly well what the
other said; so their rudeness was quite inexcusable.

When the summer was ended, the maple began to put on her gorgeous autumn dresses; but the pines
looked much at the sky, and paid little heed to the maple. The other trees on the hill-side,
quite faded with their summer gayeties, looked on languidly in the still autumn days at the
maple's brilliant toilets.

Soon the cold rains swept in from the sea, blurring the wood vistas; and when they were gone,
the frost came in the midnight, with its unwelcome message, and later the snow lay white above
all the faded and fallen crimson and gold of the maple and the tarnished silver of the birch.

All the trees, brown and bare now, moaned in the wintry wind--all but the tall pines, and they
were crossing the ocean; their lives had begun. The little saplings remained behind, but with
their heads perked stiffly up above the snow; they had the air of expecting somebody.

They were not disappointed. One sunny morning, a boy and a girl came singing through the wood
paths, each in a pair of high-topped boots, and each in a faded and closely-buttoned coat,
the girl with a blue hood pulled over her rosy face, and the boy with a fur cap closely tied
about his ears by a red comforter. The two drew a hand-sled, and peered about under the tall
trunks as they went stamping through the deep snow. How they shouted as they spied the little
pine trees perking up their heads! How they tossed aside the snow, and worked away with their
jackknives, hacking at the little pine trees till they had cut them all down, all ready to
be piled up on their hand-sled.

"Where are you going?" asked the giddy little birch of the pines, peeping out from a small
window in her snow-house. Her nose was purple, and her fingers stiff with cold; but down under
the earth her feet were warm, and that was pleasant, at any rate.

"It is of no consequence where," said the pines, in their grimmest Scandinavian.

The birch simply said, "O!" and drew in her little purple nose, hoping heartily they were all
going to be burned, as that would be a good end and riddance of them.

But the little pines were not going to be burned; they were going away to the city that lay
misty and still beyond the frozen meadows. Stretched out stiffly on the hand-sled, they were
jostled along out through the wood, over the frozen turnpike, and across the mill-dam to Boston.

They alighted at the Boylston Market, and were ranged in a row against the dark brick wall.

"How much happens in a very short time!" they said to each other; "all those gaudy, chattering
trees left without a leaf to cover them, our own friends all gone on their travels, and we
here in the city, wrapped in our warm winter furs."

It was the Christmas week. The shop windows were gay with toys and gorgeous Christmas offerings;
the shop doors were opening and shutting on the crowd that came and went through them. A bustling
throng of people passed incessantly up and down the narrow sidewalks, and carriages of all
descriptions blocked the crossings, or drove recklessly over the frozen pavement.

The old woman in the quilted black hood and shaggy cape, who had charge of the little pine
trees, drove a brisk trade that day in her wreaths and holly; but though many people stopped
to admire the little pines, and even to ask their price, no purchaser had yet appeared for them.

The old dame was rubbing her mittened hands briskly together, and mumbling in a displeased
way at the pine trees, when a carriage drew suddenly up at the curbstone, and out sprang a
little girl.

"See, papa, how lovely! So green, and fresh, and thick!" she said, pointing to the row of pines.

A bargain was concluded in a trice. The money was dropped into the eager, outstretched mitten
of the old woman, and a little Christmas tree dragged over the sidewalk, and set up in the buggy.

"We must have some of these lower branches cut off; they are in the way," said papa.

"Hev a knife, sir?" shouted a ragged little fellow, whipping a rusty old knife out of his pocket.

"Please, sir, lemme cut it for you. Say, where?" he cried, laying hold of the pine, as the
gentleman in the buggy pointed to him where to cut.

The lower branches being trimmed to the gentleman's satisfaction, the Christmas tree, leaning
comfortably against the crimson afghan, was soon on its way to Meadow Home, while its lower
branches and some jingling small coin remained in the hands of the gaping urchin on the curbstone.

"This here's luck--fust-rate luck," remarked the small boy, stamping his feet, and staring
stupidly after the retreating buggy wheels.

"Out of the way there!" growled a man in a farmer's frock, lifting a pile of frozen turkeys
from a wagon.

The boy ducked aside, his ragged little trousers fluttering in the wind. Then he sat down on
the market steps to count his coin.

"Hi! twenty-five cents. There's a mutton stew and onions for you and your folks a Christmas,
Mike Slattery, and all this jolly green stuff thrown in free gratis. That chap was a gen'leman,
and no mistake. Won't Winnie hop when she sees me a-h'isting of these here over our stairs,
and she a-blowin' at me for a week to bring her some sich, and me niver seein' nary a chance
at 'em 'cept stealin's, which is wot this here feller ain't up to no ways whatsomever. No,
sir. Hi!"

Mike waved his Christmas boughs aloft in great glee.

An old gentleman with gold-headed cane and spectacles was going up the steps of the market,
followed by a beautiful black-and-white setter. The playful dog sprang at the green branches.
Mike held on to them stoutly. The dog suddenly let go of them, and bounded away, while Mike
rolled over and over to the foot of the steps, clutching tightly the pine boughs.

"You'll ketch it," he muttered, setting his teeth hard together behind his white lips, and
trying in vain to scramble up.

"Yer hurt, bub?" asked a wrinkled old apple woman, turning round on her three-legged stool,
and thrusting her nose inquiringly out of the folds of the old brown shawl, which was wrapped
around her head.

"You bet I be!" whimpered Mike, pointing forlornly with his one unoccupied finger to his bruised
ankle.

"Been playin' pitch-pennies, yer mis'ble young 'un!" grinned a tall boy, strolling by with
his hands in his pockets, and his ferret eyes on the sharp lookout for mischief.

In a twinkling he swooped up Mike's small coin, which had rattled to the pavement, and vanished
with them in a struggling tangle of horse cars and omnibuses before Mike finished his desperate
yell of, "Gim me 'um."

By this time a crowd had gathered about the prostrate Mike, who, faint with pain, was at last
lifted into the chaise of a kind-hearted doctor, who was passing, and carried to his house
in Bone Court.

There we will leave Mike for a while, and look after the little pine tree on its way to Meadow
Home.

Such a group of round, rosy faces as were on the watch for it in the great bay window of Meadow
Home, peering out in the red sunset, straining their eyes in the dim twilight, and peering
still more persistently as the stars came out through the gathering darkness!

The fire danced in the grate, and the shadows danced on the wall, and the four little heads
danced more and more impatiently in the window pane, as the cold winter night settled down
on the world outside of Meadow Home.

"They're run away with and threw out. What will you bet, Mab?" shouted Will, turning away from
the window in disgust, and indulging in a double somerset.

"Thrown, Will," corrected Mabel, just now more indignant with his grammar than his slang.

Mabel began to clear with her sleeve an unblurred peep through the pane, and then pressed her
nose hard against the glass.

"It's my opinion," she said, with great pompousness, "that the Christmas trees are all sold.
I told Ely not to put off buying till to-day. Don't you remember, Alice? And so papa is just
coming home without them."

Alice poh-pohed. Alice was sitting up stiffly at a table by the fire, stuffing a pin-cushion,
assisted, or, more properly, impeded, by her small brother Chrissy, who had offered his services,
and would not listen to Alice's nay. Chrissy was not handsome in any light, but by the flickering
firelight he looked like a little ogre. He sat hunched up in his chair, his knees drawn up
to his nose, the sharp end of his tongue curling out of the corner of his mouth, and his small
eyes actually crossed in the earnestness of his work, which consisted in snatching chances
at the stuffing with a table-spoon and a cup of bran.

"I hear them," exclaimed Mabel, springing down from the window, her nose a spectacle.

Now away down stairs flew all the four, who had been wriggling for an hour in the bay window.

"Shut the door, Chrissy," nodded the dignified Alice to Chrissy, whose eyes had marvellously
uncrossed, and whose tongue had disappeared at Mabel's announcement. Chrissy drew down his
knees, and obeyed. "Spoon up the bran you spilled, Chrissy," directed Alice, calmly stitching
at her pin-cushion.

The reluctant Chrissy's obedience was less of a success this time. The noise of a great commotion
in the hall below reached the quiet chamber. Chrissy, with his face twisted inquiringly first
over one shoulder and then over the other, spooned at random.

The sounds came nearer. Through the hurrying of eager feet and the clamor of glad voices was
a tap-tapping on the wainscot and a thumping on the oaken stairs.

"May be it's St. Nicholas?" questioned Chrissy, spooning very unsteadily, his eyes and his
ears wide open.

"No; it isn't time for him. He's doing up his pack now, and they are harnessing his reindeer."

"Who? Where?"

The door burst open, and in tumbled four children and the little pine tree. Chrissy darted
forward, shrieking with delight, and fell headlong among the family group.

"What a pretty pine!" said Alice, calmly locking up the pin-cushion in her work-box.

Now Ely, still in her fur cap and sack, rushed in excitedly among her struggling brothers and
sisters, and rescued the pine tree.

"Sitting up so piminy there, Alice Eliot, your two hands folded, and the beautiful Christmas
tree just going to destruction, with those four wretched little thunderbolts pitching into it!"

Ely was purple with wrath.

The four little Eliots were on their feet again in a trice, giggling and nudging each other
behind the excited Ely.

"It's a truly lovely pine," remarked Alice, composedly, shaking some bran from her skirt.

"You might have said so, if you had gone round looking for them in the freezing cold, as I
did, and then couldn't find one fit to be seen, except--"

"Alice, didn't I tell her so?" interrupted Mabel, pulling Chrissy's fat fingers away from Ely's
pocket just as they were about to grasp the protruding heels of a little dancing jack.

Alice now lighted the gas, Ely set the pretty pine tree carefully against the wall, and the
four little Eliots danced hand in hand frantically about it.

Then Alice, and Mabel, and Ely went up close to the fender, and whispered together about the
presents Ely had brought home to put in the children's stockings, and Mabel helped Ely empty
her great stuffed-out pocket; and the fire laughed through the bars of the grate to see the
parcels that came forth.

By and by Mabel and Ely took the pine tree carefully down stairs into a beautiful room, and
Alice came close behind them with a great covered basket. The four little Eliots followed noisily,
striving to peep under the basket covers; but Ely thrust them all out again into the hall,
and locked the door upon them.

Now began the Christmas adorning of the little pine tree. Such beautiful things as were hung
upon it, and folded about it, and festooned around it!

"How charming to be a pine!" murmured the little tree, with its head among the frescoed cherubs
on the ceiling.

"Where are you, Mabel Eliot? Light up the burners now," commanded Ely from the top of a step-ladder.

Ely crept out from under the green baize around the foot of the pine tree, two pins in her
mouth, a crimson smoking-cap on her dishevelled head, and a pair of large-flowered toilet slippers
drawn over her hands.

"I crawled in behind there to see if there mightn't be a place somewhere for these," explained
Ely, hastening for the torch, and proceeding to light up.

The pine tree now saw itself reflected in the great mirror opposite, and echoed the "splendid"
of the three girls, who clapped their hands at the gorgeous effect. Then the lights were put
out. The silver key was turned in the door again, and the girls went away, leaving the pine
tree in darkness indeed.

The four small Eliots, after pinning up their stockings by the chimney, seated themselves in
their night-gowns on the hearth-rug, and talked over St. Nicholas before they got into bed.
Each agreed to wake the others if he "should just but catch Santa Claus coming down the chimney."

Chrissy, squinting up his eyes till nothing but two little lines of black lashes were visible,
was sure "he should catch him; O, yes, he should."

So they all climbed sleepily into bed, pinning their faith on Chrissy.

The night darkened and deepened, the stars moving on in a grand procession. Somewhere about
midnight St. Nicholas was off on his ride, galloping over the roof-tops, and knocking at every
chimney-top that had a knocker, just getting through at day dawn with the deal he had to do.
The "eight tiny reindeer" had barely trotted him out of sight, when thousands of little children
in thousands of homes began hopping out of bed to look in their stockings.

The Christmas morning was breaking in joy and gladness, as if the dear Christ Child of eighteen
hundred years ago were newly born that day. Little children, and old men, and maidens waked
to give good gifts and greetings to each other, remembering whom the good Father in heaven
had given to them on that first glad Christmas morn.

In an attic in Bone Court, Mike Slattery, wildly staring about him, bolted up in bed, waked
by big Winnie, and little Pat, and Jimmy roaring "Merry Christmas" in his ears.

"Oop, Mike, an' tak' a look at Winnie's Christmas fixin's foreninst yer two eyes," piped Jimmy,
flapping the little breeches he was too excited to put on at the little pine branches stuck
up thickly in the window.

"Isn't yer fut that better ye might hobble up to see what the good gintleman--him as brought
ye home--left behind for yees and us arl--the Christmas things, ye'll mind?" inquired Winnie,
combing her tangled auburn locks, and stooping compassionately over Mike.

"There's the big burhd for yees," cackled little Pat, staggering up to the bedside with a goose
hugged to his bosom.

"Hooray!" cried Mike, swinging his pillow; "that thafe of a chap didn't do us out of our Christmas
dinner, thin. Here's a go beyant mutton and onions."

"Blissid be thim as saysonably remimbers the poor," sniffed Mrs. Slattery, who was down on
her hands and knees washing up the broken bit of hearth under the stove.

"That's so," chimed in the little Slatterys; and then they all fell again to admiring the goose.

The sun had climbed a long way up the sky, and was just looking in through the pine branches
in the Slatterys' window, when a little golden head, surmounted by a blue velvet hat, looked
in through the Slatterys' door.

"Merry Christmas. May I come in?"

Pat looked at Jim, and Jim looked at Mike, and all three, open-mouthed, looked at the little
golden head in the doorway.

"I just came in to bring you some pretty story books of mine, and a cap of brother Jack's,
and a nice new pair of shoes for Mike. How do you do, Mike, this morning? Papa--he's the doctor
who brought you home, Mike--is coming soon to see you."

She had emptied her little leathern bag, laid down her gifts on a chair, and vanished before
Winnie got up the stairs from the wood-house, or Mrs. Slattery, in the closet, had finished
skewering up the goose, or a single little Slattery had found a word to say.

I cannot stay to tell you about the Slatterys' Christmas dinner, and Mike perched up at the
table, with brother Jack's cap on his head, and the new pair of shoes on the floor by his side.
I have just time to stop a minute at Meadow Home, where a little golden head, with a little
blue velvet hat tilted atop, flits in before me at the great hall door. As I went quickly through
the holly and under the wreaths, a little voice, in wheedling tones, called from the gallery
above,--

"Stay to dine to dinner?"

At the same time a small dancing jack, dangling from somewhere overhead, caught by his hands
and feet in my chignon, as if striving to pull me up. Ah, naughty Chrissy!

Chrissy clapped his hands in delight, and then dropping the string of the little jack, ran
away swiftly to hide.

"Do stay to dine, aunt Clara," begged Mabel, and Alice, and Ely, all three springing forward
at once to disengage the jumping jack from my hair.

