PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 159

OCTOBER 6, 1920.

CHARIVARIA.

"Motorists," says a London magistrate, "cannot go about knocking people down and killing them
every day." We agree. Once should be enough for the most grasping pedestrian.

       * * *

"A Kensington lady," we read, "has just engaged a parlourmaid who is only three feet seven
inches in height." The shortage of servants is becoming most marked.

       * * *

A play called The Man Who Went to Work is shortly to be produced in the West End. It sounds
like a farce.

       * * *

A police-sergeant of Ealing is reported to have summoned six hundred motorists since March.
There is some talk of his being presented with the illuminated addresses of another three hundred.

       * * *

All the recent photographs of Sir ERIC GEDDES show him with a very broad smile. "And I know
who he's laughing at," writes a railway traveller.

       * * *

With reference to the Press controversy between Mr. H.G. WELLS and Mr. HENRY ARTHUR JONES,
we understand that they have decided to shake hands and be enemies.

       * * *

"In New Zealand," says a weekly paper, "there is a daisy which is often mistaken for a sheep
by the shepherds." This is the sort of statement that the Prohibitionist likes to make a note of.

       * * *

A statistician informs us that a man's body contains enough lime to whitewash a small room.
It should be pointed out however that it is illegal for a wife to break up her husband for
decorative purposes.

       * * *

The Manchester Communist Party have decided to have nothing whatever to do with Parliament.
We understand that the PREMIER has now decided to sell his St. Bernard dog.

       * * *

"There are no very rich people in England," says a gossip-writer. We can only say we know a
club porter who recently stated that he had a cousin who knew a miner who ... but we fear it
was only gossip.

       * * *

"It is possible for people to do quite well without a stomach," says a Parisian doctor. Judged
by the high prices, we know a grocer who seems to think along the same lines.

       * * *

Special aeroplanes to carry fish from Holland to this country are to run in the winter. The
idea of keeping the fish long enough to enable them to cross under their own power has been
abandoned.

       * * *

An Ashford gardener has grown a cabbage which measures twelve feet across. It is said to be
uninhabited.

       * * *

The Rules of Golf Committee now suggest a standard ball for England and America. The question
of a standard long-distance expletive for foozlers is held over.

       * * *

A youth charged at a police-court in the South of London with stealing five hundred cigars,
valued at threepence each, admitted that he had smoked twenty-six of them. We are glad to learn
that no further punishment was ordered.

       * * *

The Waste Trade World states that there is a great demand for rubbish. Editors, however, don't
seem to be moving with the times.

       * * *

Off Folkestone, a few days ago, a trawler captured a blue-nosed shark. Complaints about the
temperature of the sea have been very common among bathers this year.

       * * *

"No one has yet been successful in filming an actual murder," states a Picture-goers' Journal.
It certainly does seem a pity that our murderers are so terribly self-conscious in the presence
of a cinematograph man.

       * * *

The Daily Express states that Mrs. BAMBERGER has decided not to appeal against her sentence.
If that be so, this high-handed decision will be bitterly resented by certain of the audience
who were in court during the trial and eagerly looked forward to the next edition.

       * * *

A Daily Mail reader writes to our contemporary to say that he found forty-two toads in his
garden last week. We can only suppose that they were there in ignorance of the fact that he
took in The Daily Mail.

       * * *

A pike weighing twenty-six pounds, upon being hooked by a Cheshire fisherman, pulled him into
the canal. His escape was much regretted by the fish, who had decided to have him stuffed.

       * * *

It is possible that Mr. TOM MANN, the secretary of the A.S.E., will shortly retire under the
age limit. It is rumoured that members have started to collect for a souvenir strike as a parting
tribute.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ETHIOPIAN AGAIN.

"COAL STILL BLACK."

Heading in "Church Family Newspaper."

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The output in the first quarter this year was at the rate of
     248,000,000 million tons a year. It fell in the second quarter
     to 232,000,000. Between and beyond these lines there is an
     ample margin for bargaining."

      Evening Paper.

Abundantly ample.

       *       *       *       *       *

LESSONS FROM NATURE.

TO AN AUTUMN PRIMROSE.
                          Wordsworth.

  Symbol of innocence, to Tories dear,
    Whom I detect beside the silvan path
  Doing your second time on earth this year
    That I may cull a generous aftermath,
        Let me divine your reason
  For thus repullulating out of season.

  Associated with the vernal prime
    And widely known as "rathe," why bloom so late?
  Was it the lure of so-called "Summer-time,"
    Extended well beyond the usual date?
        Our thanks for which reprieve
  Are SMILLIE'S, though they didn't ask his leave.

  Rather I think you have some lofty plan,
    Such as your old friend WORDSWORTH loved to sing;
  That for a fair ensample set to Man
    You duplicate your output of the Spring;
        That in your heart there lodges
  Dimly the hope of shaming Mr. HODGES.

  Ah! gentle primrose by the river's brim!
    Like Peter Bell (unversed in woodland lore),
  He'll miss your meaning; you will be to him
    A yellow primrose--that and nothing more;
        He'll read in you no sign
  Of Nature's views about the datum-line.

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MINERS' OPERA.

About a week ago, when they took Titterby away to the large red-brick establishment which he
now adorns, certain papers which were left lying in his study passed into my hands, for I was
almost his only friend. It had long been Titterby's belief that a great future lay before the
librettist who should produce topical light operas on the GILBERT and SULLIVAN model, dealing
with our present-day economic crises. The thing became an idée fixe, as the French say, or,
as we lamely put it in English, a fixed idea. There can be no doubt that he was engaged in
the terrible task of fitting the current coal dispute to fantastic verse when a brain-cell
unhappily buckled, and he was found destroying the works of his grand piano with a coal-scoop.

Most of the MS. in my possession is blurred and undecipherable, full of erasures, random stage-directions
and marginal notes, amongst which occasional passages such as the following "emerge" (as Mr.
SMILLIE would say):--

  "Secretary. The fellow is standing his ground,
                He's as stubborn and stiff as a war-mule.

  Minister.                                 A
                     Means will be found
                     If we look all around
                To arrive at a suitable formula.

  Chorus.     Yes, you've got to arrive at a formula."

Difficult though my task may be I feel it the duty of friendship to attempt to give the public
some faint outline of this fascinating and curious work. Scenarios, dramatis personæ and choruses
had evidently caused the author inordinate trouble, for at the top of one sheet I find:--

"ACT I.

Interior of a coal-mine. Groups of colliers with lanterns and picks (? tongs). Enter Chorus
of female consumers."

Then follows this note:--

     "MEM. Can one dance in coal-mine? Look up COAL
       in 'Ency. Brit.' Also CELLAR FLAP;"

and later on, at the end of a passage which evidently described the dresses of the principal
female characters introduced, we have the words:--

    "BRITANNIA. ? jumper, bobbed hair.
      ANARCHY. ? red tights."

Nothing in this Act survives in a legible form, but in Act II. we are slightly more fortunate:--

    "SCENE.--Downing Street (it begins). Enter mixed Chorus of
    private secretaries, female shorthand writers and
    representatives of the Press, followed by Sir ROBERT HORNE, Mr.
    ROBERT WILLIAMS and Mr. SMILLIE."

What happens after this I can only roughly surmise, but most probably Mr. SMILLIE proves false
to Britannia and flirts for some time with Anarchy, egged on by Mr. WILLIAMS and urged by Sir
ROBERT HORNE to return to his earlier flame. At any rate, after a little, the handwriting grows
clearer, and I read:--

  "Mr. SMILLIE (striking the pavement with his pick).
                We mean to strike.

  Chorus.  He means to strike, he means to strike,
             Rash man! Did ever you hear the like
               Of what he has just asserted?
             Living is dear enough now, on my soul,
             What will it be when we can't get coal?

  PRIME MINISTER (entering suddenly).
             This strike must be averted."

There seems to have been some doubt as to how the PRIME MINISTER'S entrance should be effected,
for at this point we get the marginal note: "? From door of No. 10. ? On wings. ? Trap door.
? Riding St. Bernard Dog."

But the difficulty was evidently settled, and the Chorus begins again:--

            "Oh, here is the wizard from Wales,
             The wonderful wizard from Wales,
               The British Prime Minister,

  MR. WILLIAMS. Subtle and sinister.

  Chorus. Oh, no! That is only your fancy.
              Disputes he can manage and check;
              All parties respond to his beck.

  MR. WILLIAMS. He talks through the back of his neck!

  Chorus.   When he talks through the back of his neck
            We call it his neck-romancy."

Of the arguments used by Mr. LLOYD GEORGE after this spirited encouragement no record remains
but the following passage:--

          "My dear Mr. SMILLIE,
          We value you highly
            Howe'er so ferociously raven you.
          We must find a way out,
          And we shall do, no doubt,
            If we only explore every avenue.

  Chorus. Yes, please, do explore every avenue.

    [Exeunt Mr. LLOYD GEORGE and Mr. SMILLIE arm-in-arm, R. (?
    followed by St. Bernard) and return C. Exeunt L. and return C.
    again, and so on.

  Chorus. Oh, have you explored every avenue?"

Apparently they have, for later on we get--

  "PRIME MINISTER. Then why should you want to strike
            When the Government saves your faces?
          You can get more pay when you like
            On the larger output basis."

And the Chorus of course chimes in:--

          "They can get more pay when they like
             On the larger output basis."

And there is a note at the side: "Chorus to wave arms upwards and outwards, indicating increased
production of coal."

It seems to have been at some time after this, and probably in Act III., that Titterby went,
if I may put it so vulgarly, off the hooks. I think he must have got on to the conference between
the mineowners and the representatives of the miners, and struggled until the gas became too
thick for him. At any rate, after several unreadable pages, the following unhappy fragment
stands out clear:--

    "Mr. SMILLIE still stands irresolute, running his fingers
    through his hair.

  Chorus of Mineowners (pointing at him).

           Ruffled hair requires, I ween,
           Something in the brilliantine
             Or else in the pomatum line.
           How shall we devise a balm
           Mr. SMILLIE'S locks to calm?
             Hullo! here comes the Datum-Line!

    Enter Datum-Line. (? can Datum-Line be personified? ? comic.
    ? check trousers. ? red whiskers.)"

Nothing more has been written, and it must have been at this point, I suppose, that Titterby
got up and assaulted his piano. It all seems very sad.

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CONSOLATION.

  You may be very ugly and freckledy and small
  And have a little stubby nose that's not a nose at all;
  You may be bad at spelling and you may be worse at sums,
  You may have stupid fingers that your Nanna says are thumbs,
  And lots of things you look for you may never, never find,
  But if you love the fairies--you don't mind.

  You may be rather frightened when you read of wolves and bears
  Or when you pass the cupboard-place beneath the attic stairs;
  You may not always like it when thunder makes a noise
  That seems so much, much bigger than little girls and boys;
  You may feel rather lonely when you waken in the night,
  But if the fairies love you--it's all right.

R.F.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "I trust it may be sufficient to convince readers that Mr.
    Chesterton is CONTINUED AT FOOT OF NEXT COLUMN."

     Sunday Paper.

At last the ever-recurring problem of where to put the rest of Mr. CHESTERTON has been solved.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LITTLE MOA

(and how much it is).

I have been reading a lot about Polynesia lately, and the conclusion has been forced upon me
that dining out in that neighbourhood might be rather confusing to a stranger.

Imagine yourself at one of these Antipodean functions. Your host is seated at the head of the
table with a large fowl before him. Looking pleasantly in your direction he says:--

"Will you have a little moa?"

Not being well up in the subject of exotic fauna you will be tempted to make one of the following
replies:--

(1) (With Alice in Wonderland in your mind) "How can I possibly have more when I haven't had
anything at all yet?"

(2) "Yes, please, a lot more, or just a little more," as capacity and appetite dictate.

(3) "No, thank you."

The objection to reply No. 1 is that it may cause unpleasantness, or your host may retort,
"I didn't ask you if you would have a little more moa," and thus increase your embarrassment.

No. 2 is a more suitable rejoinder, but probably No. 3 is the safest reply, as some of these
big birds require a lot of mastication.

In the event of your firing off No. 3, your host glances towards the hostess and says--

"Oo, then" (pronounced "oh-oh").

To your startled senses comes the immediate suggestion, "Is the giver of the feast demented,
or is he merely rude?"

Just as you are meditating an excuse for leaving the table and the house, your hostess saves
the situation by saying sweetly, "Do let me give you a little oo," playfully tapping with a
carvingknife the breastbone of a winged creature recumbent on a dish in front of her.

It gradually dawns upon you that you are among strange birds quite outside the pale of the
English Game Laws, and that you will have to take a sporting chance.

While you are still in the act of wavering the son of the house says, "Try a little huia."

If you like the look of this specimen of Polynesian poultry you signify your acceptance in
the customary manner; otherwise, in parliamentary phraseology, "The Oos have it."

For my own part I fancy that, unless or until some of these unusual fowls are extinct, I shall
not visit Polynesia, but rest content with Purley. Our dinner-parties may be dull, but at least
one knows one's way about among the dishes.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A BALLAD OF THE EARLY WORM.

  The gentle zephyr lightly blows
    Across the dewy lawn,
  And sleepily the rooster crows,
    "Beloved, it is dawn."

  The little worms in bed below
    Can hear their father wince,
  While, up above, a feathered foe
    Is busy making mince.

  In vain they seize his slippery tail
    And try to pull him back;
  It makes their little cheeks turn pale
    To hear his waistband crack.

  They draw him down and crowd around;
    Their tears bespeak their love;
  For part of him is underground
    And part has gone above.

  But not for long does sorrow seize
    The subterranean mind,
  For father grows another piece
    In front or else behind.

  And now he's up before the dawn,
    Long ere the world has stirred,
  And eats his breakfast on the lawn
    Before the early bird.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHEN THE YOUNG LEAD THE YOUNG.

    "Lady Nurse or Nursery Governess (young) wanted for post near
    Ventnor, I.W., for boy 2½ years. Experience, similar age, and
    happy disposition essential."--Weekly Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Oxford, Tuesday.

    The Royal Commission on Oxford and Cambridge Universities began
    its Oxford session this afternoon in the Extermination Schools."

                                                        Daily Paper.

Absit omen!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONSPIRATORS.

II.

MY DEAR CHARLES,--The Third International is not a Rugby football match. It is a corporation
of thrusters whose prospectus announces that it will very shortly have your blood, having first
acquired exclusive rights in your money. Have you two acres and a cow? Have you seven pounds
three and threepence in the Post-Office Savings Bank? Have you any blood? Very well, then;
THIS CONCERNS YOU.

There was a meeting of shareholders in Moscow as recently as July last. The Chairman said:
"Gentlemen--I beg your pardon, Comrades,--I am happy to be able to report promising developments.
Our main enterprise in Russia, for technical reasons with which I will not now trouble you,
is not for the moment profit-producing; but we have been able to promote some successful ventures
abroad. In all parts of the civilised world--and Ireland--we may anticipate a distribution
of assets in the near future." And among those assets to be parcelled out are, I may say, your
acres, your cow, your savings and yourself.

There followed a meeting of the Executive Committee (I wish they would avoid that tactless
word "executive," don't you?). Simple and brisk instructions were drafted for foreign agents,
bidding them get on with it and not spare themselves, or in any case not spare anyone else.
These were inscribed on linen, which was folded over, with the writing inside, and neatly hemmed.
Shortly afterwards a number of earnest young men wearing tall collars and an air of exaggerated
innocence sought to cross various frontiers and were surprised and offended when rough and
rude officials stole their collars and set about taking them to pieces.

I hate to speak slightingly of anyone, but these world-revolutionaries have no business to
be so young. According to my view a professor of anarchy and assassination ought to be a man
of middle-age with stiff stubble on his chin. He has no business to be a pale and perspiring
youth, tending to long back hair and apt to be startled by the slightest sound when he is alone.
And what a lot of them write poetry, and such poetry too! That is the manner of the man who
is going to seize your house and usurp your cow, while you will be lucky if you are allowed
a place on a perch in your own fowl-house.

We had an opportunity of seeing them in procession when a consignment of these world-revolutionaries
drove off in state from Berne about the time of the Armistice. I told you, last week, that
we had a Legation of them, very kindly lent by the Moscow management, and I also told you that
our Italian juggler had let us into the secret of their midnight lucubrations, of which we
had duly informed the officials interested in such matters. We had front places when the motor
lorry called for them and the military escort arrived to assist all the passengers to take,
and keep, their seats. Into the lorry were packed the Minister Plenipotentiary and Envoy Extraordinary,
the Chargé d'Affaires, the First Secretary, the Second Secretary, the Third Secretary, the
Legal and Spiritual Advisers and the Lady Typist. Their features were not easy to distinguish;
when the Bolshevists assume dominion over us they will not nationalize our soap. One or two
fell out, but were carefully replaced by willing hands and bayonets; and so home.

Now that is a sight you don't often see: a Diplomatique Corps being returned to store in a
motor lorry. The disappointing thing about them was that, for all their fiery propaganda and
for all their drastic resolutions, never a one of them produced so much as a squib-cracker.
The only people to derive any excitement from the affair were the small children, who took
it for a circus.

The best they could do for us was a general strike. What all this had to do with trades or
unions nobody seemed to know, least of all the workers. But there was an attractive sound about
the then novel phrase, "Direct Action," and it gave a sense of useful business to that otherwise
over-portly word, "Proletariat." And the local politicians, promised good jobs in LENIN'S millennium,
made great use of the phrase, "Dictatorship of the Proletariat." Thus many an honest workman
joined in under the belief that it meant an extra hour's holiday on Saturdays, an extra hour
in bed on Mondays and an extra bob or two of wages.

While it lasts, even a bloodless revolution can be very tiresome; almost as disquieting as
a general election. Everybody who isn't revoluting is mobilised to keep the revolution from
being molested. There are no trams, because the drivers are demonstrating; no shops, because
the shopmen are mobilised; no anything, because everyone is out watching the fun. So you go
into the square to watch also. You see little groups of revolutionaries looking sullen and
laboriously class-hating. You see a lot of soldiers looking very ordinary but trying not to.
The riff-raff scowl at the soldiers, who are ordered out to shoot at them. The soldiers scowl
at the riff-raff at whom they are ordered not to shoot. And, for some reason which the experts
have not yet fathomed, it always pours with rain.

When we had succeeded in persuading the soldier who was posted to guard our hotel that we were
not the proletariat and might safely be let pass, we found a gathering of inside-knowledge
people discussing the situation. The Government ought to have known all about it long before--how
the Bolshevists were stirring up trouble. "They did," said we; "we told them." There was a
silence at this, but a smile on the face of the audience which we at first mistook for incredulity.
We referred darkly to our private information, derived, as I told you in my last, from the
Italian juggler. "Did he do juggling tricks with your ink-pots too?" asked the French element.
"How much money did you give him?" asked all the other elements. "And I suppose he also told
you," said the Italian officer, "that he had no confidence in his own people and that the British
alone enjoyed his respect?"

At this moment the Americans came in and asked us to quit arguing and attend while they told
us how they had unearthed the great plot.... When together we reckoned up the Italian juggler's
net takings we realised that it is an ill revolution which brings no one any good.

  Yours ever,
  HENRY.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

CUBBIN' THRO' THE RYE.

    [Suggested by a recently reported incident in the Midlands,
     when a pack divided, one part getting out of hand and running
     among standing crops.]

  Gin a body meet a body
    Cubbin' thro' the rye,
  Gin a body tell a body,
    "Seed 'em in full cry,"
  Useless then to blame the puppies,
    Useless too to lie;
  Whippers-in can't always stop 'em,
    Even when they try.

  Gin a body meet a body
    Cubbin' thro' the rye,
  What a body calls a body
    Dare I say?--not I;
  Farmers get distinctly stuffy,
    Neither are they shy,
  And Masters, when they're really rattled,
    Sometimes make reply.

       *       *       *       *       *

BRAVE NEWS FOR PUSSYFOOT.

     "A good many Church-people at home have been pressing
    teetotalism, and are now pressing Prohibition, and it is
    possible that they may succeed about the time when the moon
    grows cold."--Weekly Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MYSTERY OF THE APPLE-PIE BEDS.

(Leaves from a holiday diary.)

I.

An outrage has occurred in the hotel. Late on Monday night ten innocent visitors discovered
themselves the possessors of apple-pie beds. The beds were not of the offensive hair-brush
variety, but they were very cleverly constructed, the under-sheet being pulled up in the good
old way and turned over at the top as if it were the top-sheet.

I had one myself. The lights go out at eleven and I got into bed in the dark. When one is very
old and has not been to school for a long time or had an apple-pie bed for longer still, there
is something very uncanny in the sensation, especially if it is dark. I did not like it at
all. My young brother-in-law, Denys, laughed immoderately in the other bed at my flounderings
and imprecations. He did not have one. I suspect him....

II.

Naturally the hotel is very much excited. It is the most thrilling event since the mixed foursomes.
Nothing else has been discussed since breakfast. Ten people had beds and about ten people are
suspected. The really extraordinary thing is that numbers of people seem to suspect me! That
is the worst of being a professional humourist; everything is put down to you. When I was accompanying
Mrs. F. to-day she suddenly stopped fiddling and said hotly that someone had been tampering
with her violin. I know she suspected me. Fortunately, however, I have a very good answer to
this apple-pie bed charge. Eric says that his bed must have been done after dinner, and I was
to be seen at the dance in the lounge all the evening. I have an alibi.

Besides I had a bed myself; surely they don't believe that even a professional humourist could
be so bursting with humour as to make himself an apple-pie bed and not make one for his brother-in-law
in the same room! It would be too much like overtime.

But they say that only shows my cleverness....

III.

Then there is the question of the Barkers. Most of the victims were young people, who could
not possibly mind. But the Barkers had two, and the Barkers are a respected middle-aged couple,
and nobody could possibly make them apple-pie beds who did not know them very well. That shows
you it can't have been me--I--me--that shows you I couldn't have done it. I have only spoken
to them once.

They say Mr. Barker was rather annoyed. He has rheumatism and went to bed early. Mrs. Barker
discovered about her bed before she got in, but she didn't let on. She put out the candle and
allowed her lord to get into his apple-pie in the dark. I think I shall like her.

They couldn't find the matches. I believe he was quite angry....

IV.

I suspect Denys and Joan. They are engaged, and people in that state are capable of anything.
Neither of them had one, and they were seen slipping upstairs during the dance. They say they
went out on the balcony--a pretty story....

V.

I suspect the Barkers. You know, that story about Mrs. B. letting Mr. B. get into his without
warning him was pretty thin. Can you imagine an English wife doing a thing of that kind? If
you can it ought to be a ground for divorce under the new Bill. But you can't.

Then all that stuff about the rheumatism--clever but unconvincing. Mr. Barker stayed in his
room all the next morning when the awkward questions were being asked. Not well; oh, no! But
he was down for lunch and conducting for a glee-party in the drawing-room afterwards, as perky
and active as a professional. Besides, the really unanswerable problem is, who could have dared
to make the Barkers' apple-pie beds? And the answer is, nobody--except the Barkers.

And there must have been a lady in it, it was so neatly done. Everybody says no man could have
done it. So that shows you it couldn't have been me--I--myself....

VI.

I suspect Mr. Winthrop. Mr. Winthrop is fifty-three. He has been in the hotel since this time
last year, and he makes accurate forecasts of the weather. My experience is that a man who
makes accurate forecasts of the weather may get up to any devilry. And he protests too much.
He keeps coming up to me and making long speeches to prove that he didn't do it. But I never
said he did. Somebody else started that rumour, but of course he thinks that I did. That comes
of being a professional humourist.

But I do believe he did it. You see he is fifty-three and doesn't dance, so he had the whole
evening to do it in.

To-night we are going to have a Court of Inquiry....

VII.

We have had the inquiry. I was judge. I started with Denys and Joan in the dock, as I thought
we must have somebody there and it would look better if it was somebody in the family. The
first witness was Mrs. Barker. Her evidence was so unsatisfactory that I had to have her put
in the dock too. So was Mr. Barker's. I was sorry to put him in the dock, as he still had rheumatics.
But he had to go.

So did Mr. Winthrop. I had no qualms about him. For a man of his age to do a thing like that
seems to me really deplorable. And the barefaced evasiveness of his evidence! He simply could
not account for his movements during the evening at all. When I asked him what he had been
doing at 9.21, and where, he actually said he didn't know.

Rather curious--very few people can account for their movements, or anyone else's. In most
criminal trials the witnesses remember to a minute, years after the event, exactly what time
they went upstairs and when they passed the prisoner in the lounge, but nobody seems to remember
anything in this affair. No doubt it will come in time.

The trial was very realistic. I was able to make one or two excellent judicial jokes. Right
at the beginning I said to the prosecuting counsel, "What is an apple-pie bed?" and when he
had explained I said with a meaning look, "You mean that the bed was not in apple-pie order?"
Ha, ha! Everybody laughed heartily....

VIII.

In my address to the jury of matrons I was able to show pretty clearly that the crime was the
work of a gang. I proved that Denys and Joan must have done the bulk of the dirty work, under
the tactical direction of the Barkers, who did the rest; while in the background was the sinister
figure of Mr. Winthrop, the strategical genius, the lurking Macchiavelli of the gang.

The jury were not long in considering their verdict. They said: "We find, your Lordship, that
you did it yourself, with some lady or ladies unknown."

That comes of being a professional humourist....

IX.

I ignored the verdict. I addressed the prisoners very severely and sentenced them to do the
Chasm hole from 6.0 A.M. to 6.0 P.M. every day for a week, to take out cards and play out every
stroke. "You, Winthrop," I said, "with your gentlemanly cunning, your subtle pretensions of
righteousness--" But there is no space for that....

X.

As a matter of fact the jury were quite right. In company with a lady who shall be nameless
I did do it. At least, at one time I thought I did. Only we have proved so often that somebody
else did it, we have shown so conclusively that we can't have done it, that we find ourselves
wondering if we really did.

Perhaps we didn't.

If we did we apologise to all concerned--except, of course, to Mr. Winthrop. I suspect him.

A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MIXED METEOROLOGICAL MAXIMS.

(By a Student of Psychology.)

  When the glass is high and steady
  For domestic broils be ready.
  When the glass is low and jerky
  Then look out for squalls in Turkey.
  When the air is dull and damp
  Keep your eye on Mr. CRAMP.
  When the air is clear and dry
  On BOB WILLIAMS keep your eye.
  When it's fine and growing finer
  Keep your eye upon the miner.
  When it's wet and growing wetter
  'Twill be worse before it's better.
  When the tide is at its ebb
  Fix your gaze on SIDNEY WEBB.
  When the tide is at high level
  Modernists discuss the Devil.
  Floods upon the Thames or Kennet
  Stimulate the brain of BENNETT;
  While a waterspout foretells
  Fresh activities in WELLS.
  When it's calm in the Atlantic
  Gooseberries become gigantic.
  When it's rough in the Pacific
  Laying hens are less prolific.
  When the clouds are moving largo
  There is no restraining MARGOT.
  When their movement is con brio
  'Ware CHIOZZA MONEY (LEO)!
  When the sun is bright but spotty
  Diarists become more dotty.
  When the sun is dim and hazy
  Diarists become more crazy.
  When the nights are calm and still
  Faster travels GARVIN'S quill.
  When the blizzard's blast is hissing
  REPINGTON is reminiscing.

  If you ponder well these lines
  You can read the weather signs
  In accordance with the rule
  Binding both on sage and fool:--
  Anything in mortal ken
  May befall us anywhen.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMERCIAL IMPORTUNITY.

     "Services! Dozens other cars available, £1,500 to £50. Call and
    insult us."

     Motor Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE VISIONS OF THE UNSEEN.

     "The roads are peculiarly situated, and are dangerous not only
    because they are main cross roads, but also on account of the
    hidden view they afford of each other."--Local Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DEVOTED LOVER.

     ["Loiterers will be treated as trespassers."--Notice on Tube
    Station.]

  No longer laud, my Jane, the ancient wooer
    Who for the favours of his ladye fayre
  Would sally forth to strafe the evil-doer
    Or beard the dragon in his inmost lair;
  Find it no more, dear heart, a ground for stray tiffs
    Because, forsooth, you can't detect in me
  A tendency to go out whopping caitiffs
    Daily from ten till three.

  He proved himself in his especial fashion,
    Daring the worst to earn a lover's boon,
  But I, no less than he a prey to passion,
    Faced risks as great this very afternoon,
  When at the Tube a long half-hour I waited
    (In fond obedience to your written beck)
  Where loiterers, it practically stated,
    Would get it in the neck.

  The liftmen who from time to time ascended
    To spill their loads (in which you had no part)
  Regarded me with eagle eyes intended
    To lay the touch of terror on my heart;
  But through a wait thus perilously dreary
    My spirits drooped not nor my courage flinched;
  "She cometh not," I merely sighed, "I'm weary
    And likely to be pinched."

  You came at last, long last, to end my fretting,
    And now you know how your devoted bard
  Faced for your sake the risk of fine or getting
    An unaccustomed dose of labour (hard);
  Harbour no more that idiotic notion
    That love to-day is unromantic, flat;
  Gave Lancelot such a proof of his devotion,
    Did Galahad do that?

       *       *       *       *       *

PAMELA'S ALPHABET.

Scene.--A DOMESTIC INTERIOR.

Pamela's father, in one armchair, is making a praiseworthy effort to absorb an article in a
review on "The Future of British Finance." In another armchair Pamela's mother is doing some
sort of mending. Pamela herself, stretched upon the hearthrug, is reading aloud interesting
extracts from a picture-book.

Pamela (in a cheerful sing-song). A for Donkey; B for Dicky.

Her Father. What sort of dicky?

Pamela (examining the illustration more closely). All ugly black, bissect for his blue mouf.

Her Mother (instructively). Not blue; yellow. And it's a beak, not a mouth.

Pamela. I calls it a mouf. He's eating wiv it. (With increasing disfavour) A poor little worm
he's eating. Don't like him; he's crool. (She turns the page hurriedly and continues) C for
Pussy; D for Mick.

    [This is the name of the family mongrel. That the picture
    represents an absolutely thoroughbred collie matters nothing to
    Pamela. She spends some time in admiring Mick, then rapidly
    sweeps over certain illustrations that fail to attract.

Pamela (stopping at the sight of a web-footed fowl, triumphantly). G for Quack-quack.

Her Father. Oh, come, Pamela, that's not a quack-quack; that's a goose. It makes quite a different
noise.

    [Anticipating an immediate demand for a goose's noise he clears
    his throat nervously.

Pamela (with authority). This one isn't making any noise. It's jus' thinking. (Her father accepts
the correction and swallows again.) H for Gee-gee. Stupid gee-gee.

Her Father. Why stupid?

Pamela. 'Acos its tail looks silly.

Her Father (glancing at the tail, which bears some resemblance to an osprey's feather). You're
right; it does.

Her Mother. I wonder whether it's wrong to let children get accustomed to bad drawings?

Her Father. Pamela doesn't get accustomed--she criticises. If it weren't for a silly tail here,
a stupid face there, her critical faculty might lie for ever dormant.

Pamela (having turned over four or five pages with one grasp of the hand, as if determined
to suppress the unsatisfactory horse). R for Bunny.

Her Mother. No, dear, Rabbit. R for Rabbit. B for Bunny.

Pamela (gently). No; B is for Dicky. The ugly dicky wiv the blue mouf.

Her Father (rashly). The blackbird.

Pamela (conscious of superior knowledge). That isn't its name. That's what it looks like, all
black; but its name is Dicky. B for Dicky.

Her Father. Well, have it your own way. What does S stand for?

Pamela (turning to the likeness of an elderly quadruped, with great assurance). Baa-lamb!

Her Father. Sometimes we call baa-lambs sheep.

Pamela. I don't.

Her Father. You will when you grow older.

Pamela. I won't be any older, not for ever so long. Not till next birfday. (Pushing her book
away and assuming an air of extreme infancy) Tired of reading. Want a piggy-back, please!

Her Father (firmly taking up his review again). Not just now. I'm busy with a picture-book.

    [A reproachful silence falls upon the room.

Pamela (presently, in a mournful chant). A for Don-key. B for Dicky--

The Scene closes.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FLOWERS' NAMES.

CROW'S-FOOT.

  Have you noticed that the splendid dreams, the best dreams that there are,
  Come always in the darkest nights without a single star?
  When the moonless nights are blackest the best dreams are about;
  I'll tell you why that should be so and how I found it out.

  There's a bird who comes at night-time, and underneath his wings,
  All warm and soft and feathery, lie tiny fairy things;
  He spreads his wings out widely (you see them, not the dark)
  And you hear the fairies whispering, "Hush! hush!" "I'll tell you!" "Hark!"

  The bird is black and feathery, but his feet are made of gold;
  He chiefly comes in summer-time, for fairies hate the cold;
  And if the nights are velvet-dark and full of summer airs
  He lingers till the sun creeps up and finds him unawares.

  And so you'll see in summer-time, when all the dew is wet,
  The footprints of his golden claws maybe will linger yet;
  The little golden flower-buds will gleam like golden grain,
  And if you pick and cherish them perhaps you'll dream again.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HONOURS EASY.

I.

Not very long ago the following advertisements appeared in the same column of The Southshire
Daily Gazette:

    "Lost, a pure black Pekinese dog, wearing a silver badge marked
    'Cherub.' Handsome reward offered. F.B., Grand Hotel,
    Brightbourne."

    "Found, a black Pekinese, wearing a silver badge marked
    'Cherub.' No reward required. The Limes, Cheviot Road,
    Brightbourne."

II.

On the same morning the paper was opened and scanned almost simultaneously by Mrs. Frederick
Bathurst in the sitting-room which she and her husband occupied at the Grand Hotel, and by
Mr. Hartley Friend in the morning-room at "The Limes."

"Oh, Fred," exclaimed Mrs. Bathurst, "Cherub has been found. He's all safe at a house called
'The Limes,' in Cheviot Road. Isn't that splendid?"

"Very good news," said her husband. "I told you not to worry."

"It's a direct answer to prayer," said Mrs. Bathurst. "But--"

"But what?" her husband inquired.

"But I do wish you had taken my advice not to offer any reward. You might so easily have left
it open. People aren't so mercenary as all that. It stands to reason that anyone staying at
an hotel like this and bringing a dog with them--always an expensive thing to do--and valuing
it enough to advertise its loss, would behave properly when the time came."

"I don't know," Mr. Bathurst replied. "Does anything stand to reason? The ordinary dog-thief,
holding up an animal to ransom, might be deterred from returning it if no mention of money
was made. You remember we decided on that."

"Oh, no, I don't think so. You merely had your way again, that was all. I was always against
offering a reward. And the word 'handsome' too. In any case I never agreed to that. You put
that in later. Another thing," Mrs. Bathurst continued, "I knew it in some curious way--in
my bones, as they say--that the fineness of Cherub's nature, its innocence, its radiant friendliness,
would overcome any sordidness in the person who found him, poor darling, all lost and unhappy.
No one who has been much with that simple sweet character could fail to be the better for it."

Mr. Bathurst coughed.

"That is so?" his wife persisted.

"Well," said Mr. Bathurst, after helping himself to another egg, "let us hope so, at any rate."

"It's gone beyond mere hope," said his wife triumphantly. "Listen to this;" and she read out
the sentence from the second advertisement, "'No reward required.' There," she added, "isn't
that proof? I'll go round to Cheviot Road directly after breakfast and say how grateful we
are, and bring the darling back."

III.

Meanwhile at "The Limes" Mr. Hartley Friend was pacing the room with impatient steps.

"I do wish you would try to be less impulsive," he was saying to his wife. "Anything in the
nature of business you would be so much wiser to leave to me."

"What is it now?" Mrs. Friend asked with perfect placidity.

"This dog," said her husband, "that fastened itself on you in this deplorable way--whatever
possessed you to rush into print about it?"

"Of course I rushed, as you say. Think of the feelings of the poor woman who has lost her pet.
It was the only kind thing to do."

"'Poor woman' indeed! I assure you she's nothing of the sort. One would think you were a millionaire
to be ladling out benefactions like this. 'No reward required.' Fancy not even asking for the
price of the advertisement to be refunded!"

"But that would have been so squalid."

"'Squalid!' I've no patience with you. Justice isn't squalor. It's--it's justice. As for your
'poor woman,' listen to this." And he read out the Bathurst advertisement with terrible emphasis
on the words "Handsome reward offered." "Do you hear that--'handsome'?"

"Yes, I hear," said his wife amiably; "but that isn't my idea of making money."

"I hope you don't suppose it's mine," said her husband. "But there is such a thing as common
sense. Why on earth the accident of this little brute following us home should run us into
the expense of an advertisement and a certain amount of food and drink I'm hanged if I can see."

"Well, dear," said his wife with the same amiability, "if you can't see it I can't make you."

IV.

A few minutes later the arrival of "a lady who's come for the Peek" was announced.

"No," said Mr. Friend as his wife rose, "leave it to me. I'll deal with it. The situation is
very delicate."

"How can I thank you enough," began Mrs. Bathurst, "for being so kind and generous about our
little angel? My husband and I agreed that nothing more charmingly considerate can ever have
been done."

At this point Mrs. Friend followed her husband into the room, and Mrs. Bathurst renewed her
expressions of gratitude.

"But at any rate," she added to her, "you will permit me to defray the cost of the advertisement?
I could not allow you to be at that expense."

Before Mrs. Friend could speak her husband intervened. "No, madam," he said, "I couldn't think
of it. Please don't let the mention of money vulgarize a little friendly act like this. We
are only too glad to have been the means of reuniting you and your pet."

E.V.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Rufford Abbey is, of course, a wonderful old place, and all
    the front, from gable to gable, is genuine tenth-century, built
    in 1139."

     Sunday Times.

It looks as if the ca' canny idea was not so new as we thought it.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"EVERY WOMAN'S PRIVILEGE."

When Dahlia refused the hand of a wealthy middle-aged nut, with faultless knickerbockers and
a gift for lucubrated epigrams, preferring to throw in her lot (platonically) with a young
and penniless social reformer, we took no notice of those who feared a scandal ("scandals are
not what they were," as she said), nor of the girl's assertion that she had no use for the
alleged romance of marriage. We were confident that the little god whose image, with bow and
arrow, stood in the garden of Dahlia's ancestral home, would put things right for us in the
end. Yet we were not greatly annoyed when he made a mess of his business and married her to
the wrong man; for in the meantime such strange things had been allowed to occur and the right
man had proved such a disappointment that we didn't much care what happened to anybody.

It was the rejected lover, Mortimer Jerrold, who conceived two bright ideas for conquering
her independence of mind, apparently for the benefit of his rival. First he contrived to get
Harold Glaive, the young socialist, selected as a candidate for Parliament, hoping (if I read
the gentleman's motive rightly) that his probable failure would touch the place where her heart
should have been. This scheme did not go very well, for he was chosen to contest the seat held
by Dahlia's own father (which caused a lot of trouble), and in the result beat him.

Meanwhile Jerrold had had an alternative brain-wave. He thought that if he pinched the latchkey
of Dahlia's Bloomsbury flat, broke in at night, and made a show of assaulting her modesty he
could prove to her that she was only a poor weak woman after all. Nothing, you would say, could
well have been more stupid. Yet, according to Mr. HASTINGS TURNER'S showing (and who were we
to challenge his authority?) it came off. We were, in fact, asked to believe that a girl who
had protested her freedom from all sense of sex was suddenly made conscious of it by the violence
of a man whose advances, when decently conducted, had left her cold; and from that moment developed
an inclination to marry him. An assault by a tramp or an apache would apparently have served
almost as well for the purpose. If this is "Every Woman's Privilege" it is fortunate that so
few of them get the chance of exercising it.

Miss MARIE LÖHR herself came very well out of a play that can hardly add to the author's reputation.
Her personality lent itself to a part which demanded a blend of feminine charm with a boyish
contempt for romance. And she had a few good things to say. It was not Mr. HALLARD'S fault
if he failed to win our perfect sympathy for a hero whom the heroine addressed as "Spats."
As for Mr. BASIL RATHBONE, who played the part of Harold Glaive, I cannot imagine why he took
it on. Apart from his timorous declaration of love, conveyed on a typewriter, there was no
colour in it, and nothing whatever to show why his passion petered out. I think that the author,
in his surprise at the success of Harold's rival, must have forgotten all about it. Mr. HERBERT
ROSS was excellent as Dahlia's father, a pleasantly futile baronet under the thumb of a sour-tongued
managing female, an old-fashioned part in which Miss HELEN ROUS has nothing to learn. Miss
VANE FEATHERSTON, as the lady who finally absorbed the baronet, did her little gratuitous piece
all right.

I cannot get myself to believe that all these intelligent actors are under any illusion as
to the merits of the comedy. With the best wishes in the world for the success of Miss MARIE
LÖHR'S enterprises, I am bound to regard it as yet another instance of a play where the attractions
of the leading part have a little deranged the judgment of the actor-manager.

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE CROSSING."

Mr. ALGERNON BLACKWOOD and Mr. BERTRAM FORSYTH (assisted by Mr. DONALD CALTHROP) present to
us in The Crossing a certain Mr. Anthony Grimshaw, a princely egotist of the poetic-idealist
type who gets up on the hearth-rug and says to his family, "I am a humanitarian before everything,"
and things like that, and then wonders why his wife is estranged from him. He has a daughter,
Nixie, who is not old enough to know how bad all this is, and together they hear the wind singing
glees without words (or in Volapuk, but anyway not intelligible to us poor normals), a thing
Mr. ALGERNON BLACKWOOD has been doing or pretending to do for years without once taking me in.

Anthony is run over and (as we say) dies. After an extraordinarily tiresome conversation in
the morning-room with his friend and his son and his mother (who are also what people call
dead) it dawns upon him that something odd has happened to himself also. His wife and two children,
after his (so-called) death, become blissfully happy and set to work to finish his book, that
being, as they think, his wish. Well, I wonder. At any rate in death (as we say) he was not
divided--from his egotisms.

One knows well enough, alas, how the temptation to spiritual drug-taking has grown as the result
of the accumulated sorrows of these past years, but it is not well that such a treatment of
the eternal question should be taken seriously. Is this sort of thing really better than the
harp-and-cloud theory? It is not. One looked in vain for any trace of real vision, any true
sense of the height and depth of the problem.

Mr. MARSHALL struggled quite manfully with the part of Anthony, and of course he had his moments.
I hope so good a player is not developing the "actor's pause," of which I detected signs. Miss
IRENE ROOKE had nothing in particular to do and did it very well. Mr. HUBERT HARBEN as the
impenitent profiteer from Lancashire, Anthony's brother-in-law, was better suited than I have
seen him for some time, and provided the very necessary relief. The precocious children infuriated
me, but that is purely temperamental. The actors who played the parts of those who had "crossed"
were wrapped in such an atmosphere of gloom, to the strains of such meretricious music that
(on the evidence) I can only advise people to defer their crossing as long as possible; a thing
they will doubtless do, even if they have a friendlier feeling to the new religion than I can
command.... I am afraid I proved a bad sailor.

T.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWO STUDIES IN MUSICAL CRITICISM.

(With grateful acknowledgments to "The Times" and "The Morning Post.")

I.

We had quite a hectic time at the Philharmonic--I nearly wrote the Phillemonade--concert last
night, what with two Czechs, Dabçik and Ploffskin, slabs of WAGNER, and Carl Walbrook's Humorous
Variations, "The Quangle Wangle," conducted by Carl himself. If the honest truth be told, we
sat down to the Variations with no more pleasurable anticipation than one sits down with in
the dentist's chair, preparatory to the application of gags, electric drills and other instruments
of odontological torture. (Strange, by the way, that no modernist has translated the horrors
of the modern Tusculum into terms of sound and fury!) But we were most agreeably surprised
to find ourselves following every one of the forty-nine Variations with breathless interest.
Mr. Walbrook is indeed a case of the deformed transformed. We found hardly a trace of the poluphloisboisterous
pomposity with which he used to camouflage his dearth of ideas. His main theme is shapely and
sinuous, and its treatment in most of the Variations titillated us voluptuously. But, since
it is the function of the critic to criticise, let us justify our rôle by noting that the scoring
throughout tends to glutinousness, like that of the pre-war Carlsbad plum; further, that a
solo on the muted viola against an accompaniment of sixteen sarrusophones is only effective
if the sarrusophones are prepared to roar like sucking-doves, which, as LEAR would have said,
"they seldom if ever do." Still, on the whole the Variations arrided us vastly.

It was a curious but exhilarating experience to hear the Bohemians, the playboys of Central
Europe, interpreted in the roast-beef-and-plum-pudding style of the Philharmonic at its beefiest
and plummiest. Dabçik survived the treatment fairly well, but poor Ploffskin was simply stodged
under. But they were in the same boat with RICHARD the Elder, whose Venusberg music was given
with all the orgiastic exuberance of a Temperance Band at a Sunday-School Treat, recalling
the sarcastic jape of old HANS RICHTER during the rehearsal of the same work: "You play it
like teetotalers--which you are not." Yet the orchestra were lavish of violent sonority where
it was not required; the well-meaning but unfortunate Mr. Orlo Jimson, who essayed the "Smithy
Songs" from Siegfried, being submerged in a very Niagara of noise. WAGNER'S scoring no doubt
is "a bit thick," but then he devised a special "spelunk" (as BACON says) for his orchestra
to lurk in, and there is no cavernous accommodation at the Queen's Hall.

II.

Though fashion considers September as an unpropitious time for the production of novelties,
the scheme arranged for the patrons of the Philharmonic Concert last night, under the direction
of Sir Henry Peacham, was successful in bringing together an audience of eminently respectable
dimensions. The occasion served for the launching under favourable circumstances of what constituted
the chief landmark of the programme--a set of orchestral variations with the quaint title of
"The Quangle Wangle," from the prolific pen of Mr. Carl Walbrook. It is satisfactory to be
able to record the gratifying fact that this work met with cordial acceptance. In the interests
of serious art, the borrowing of a title from one of the works of a writer so addicted to levity
as EDWARD LEAR may perhaps be deprecated, but there can be no doubt of the ingenuity and sprightliness
with which Mr. Walbrook has addressed himself to, and accomplished, his task. If we cannot
discover in his composition the manifestation of any pronounced individuality or high artistic
uplift, it none the less commands the respect due to the exhibition of a vigorous mentality
combined with a notable mastery of orchestral resource and mellifluous modulation. At the conclusion
of the performance Mr. Walbrook was constrained to make the transit from the artistes' room
to the platform no fewer than three times before the applausive zeal of the audience could
be allayed.

The remainder of the scheme was copious and well-contrived. Pleasurable evidence of the friendly
interest shown in the fortunes of the Czecho-Slovakian Republic was forthcoming in the performance
of two works by composers of that interesting race--Messrs. Dabçik and Ploffskin--of which
it may suffice to say that the temperamental peculiarities of the Bohemian genius were elicited
with conspicuous brilliancy under the inspiring direction of Sir Henry Peacham. In a vocal
item from Siegfried, Mr. Orlo Jimson evinced a sympathetic appreciation of the emotional needs
of the situation which augurs favourably for his further progress, and the powerful support
furnished him by the orchestra was an important factor in the enjoyment of his praiseworthy
efforts. An almost too vivacious rendering of the Venusberg music brought the scheme to a strepitous
conclusion. It may, however, be submitted that so realistic an interpretation of the Pagan
revelries depicted by the composer is hardly in accordance with the best traditions of the
British musical public.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "There is no such thing as infallibility in rerum
    naturæ."--Provincial Paper.

Nor, apparently, in journalistic Latin.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Reward.--Bedroom taken Tuesday, 27th, between Holborn and
    Woburn-place. A basket and umbrella left."--Daily Paper.

We compliment the victim of this theft on his courtesy in calling the thieves' attention to
their oversight.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

The long-promised Herbert Beerbohm Tree (HUTCHINSON), than which I have expected no book with
more impatience, turns out to be a volume full of lively interest, though rather an experiment
in snap-shot portraiture from various angles than a full-dress biography. Mr. MAX BEERBOHM
has arranged the book, himself contributing a short memoir of his brother, which, together
with what Lady TREE aptly calls her Reverie, fills some two-thirds of it with the more intimate
view of the subject, the rest being supplied by the outside appreciations of friends and colleagues.
If I were to sum up my impression of the resulting picture it would be in the word "happiness."
Not without reason did the TREES name a daughter FELICITY. Here was a life spent in precisely
the kind of success that held most delight for the victor--honour, love, obedience, troops
of friends; all that Macbeth missed his exponent enjoyed in flowing measure. Perhaps TREE was
never a great actor, because he found existence too "full of a number of things"; if so he
was something considerably jollier, the enthusiastic, often inspired amateur, approaching each
new part with the zest of a brief but brilliant enthusiasm. I suppose no popular favourite
ever had his name associated with more good stories and wit, original and vicarious. Despite
some entertaining extracts from his commonplace book I doubt if this side of him is quite worthily
represented; at least nothing here quoted beats Lady TREE'S own mot for a mendacious newspaper
poster--Canard à la Press. Possibly we are still to look for a more official volume of reference;
meantime the present memoir gives a vastly readable sketch of one whose passing left a void
perhaps unexpectedly hard to fill.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the prefatory chapter of Our Women (CASSELL) Mr. ARNOLD BENNETT coyly disclaims any intention
of tackling his theme on strictly scientific principles. The warning is perhaps hardly necessary,
since, apart from the duty which the author owes to his public as a novelist rather than a
philosopher, the title alone should be a sufficient guide. One would hardly expect a serious
zoologist, for instance, in attempting to deal with the domesticated fauna, to entitle his
work Our Dumb Friends. The book is divided in the main between adjuration and prophecy. As
a result of their emancipation from economic slavery, Mr. BENNETT expects women--women, that
is to say, of the "top class," as he calls it--to adopt more and more the rôle of professional
wage-earners; but at the same time he insists that they do not as yet take themselves seriously
enough as professional housekeepers. How the two functions are to be combined it is a little
difficult to see, but apparently women are to retain a profession as a stand-by in case they
fail to marry or to remain married. At the same time Mr. BENNETT takes it for granted that
woman will never relinquish her position as a charmer of man, or even the use of cosmetics
and expensive lingerie. Speaking neither as a novelist nor as a philosopher, I cannot help
feeling that Mr. BENNETT is too apt to consider the things he particularly likes about women
to be eternal, and those that he does not like so much to be susceptible of alteration and
improvement. Anyhow, it looks as if Our Men were going to have rather a thin time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss BEATRICE HARRADEN calls her latest story Spring Shall Plant (HODDER AND STOUGHTON). She
might equally well have called it The Successes of a Naughty Child. Certainly it is chiefly
concerned with the many triumphant insubordinations of Patuffa (whom I suspect of having been
encouraged by her too challenging name) both at home and at the various schools from which
she either ran away or was returned with thanks. This is all mildly attractive if only from
the vivacity of its telling; but I confess to having felt a mild wonder whether a child's book
had not got on to my table by error--when the grown-ups suddenly began to carry on in a way
that placed all such doubts at rest. There was, for example, a Russian lady, godmother of Patuffa,
who escaped from somewhere and established herself, with others of her kind, in an attic in
Coptic Street. My welcome for this interesting fugitive was to some extent shaken by a realisation
that she was (so to speak) a refugee from the other side and, in a sense, a spiritual ancestress
of Bolshevism. Miss HARRADEN would however object, and justly, that the clean-purposed conspirators
of the earlier revolution had little in common with the unsavoury individuals who at present
obscure the Russian dawn. Soon after this, Patuffa's papa begins to go quite dreadfully off
the rails, even to the extent of wishing to elope with her governess and eventually losing
all his money and shooting himself. There was also a famous violinist--well, you can see already
that Patuffa's vernal experiences were on generous lines. It is to the credit of all concerned
that she and her story retain an appreciable charm under adverse conditions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing, one would imagine, could promise much more restful reading than a book that concerns
itself with such things as christening robes for caterpillars, the dyeing blue of white chickens
and searches among Californian lilies and pine-trees for the soul of a hog unseasonably defunct.
But, since this most uncharitable age refuses to believe anything just because it is told it
should, the peaceful pages of The Diary of Opal Whiteley (PUTNAM) are unfortunately fussed
over with a controversy that no one who reads them can quite escape. Miss WHITELEY'S diary
is presented with every circumstance of solemn asseveration as the unaided work of a child
of seven, only now pieced together by the writer after quite a number of years. If you care
to throw yourself into the argument you will certainly find heaps of reasons for thinking unkind
thinks, as the writer would say, of the truth of this claim, particularly in the completeness
with which every incident is carried through various stages to its literary finish; but, if
you will be ruled by me, you will try to forget anything but the book itself, with its quite
charming pictures of many animals and one little girl, their understanding friend. The quaint
idiom in which the diary is supposed to have been written (or, of course, was written) adds
to the delight of a rather uncommon feeling for nature at its simplest, while the scrapes for
which the small heroine receives (or, you may say, is alleged to receive) well-deserved punishment
preserve the book from ever dropping into mere mawkishness. A great pity, I think, that it
was not published rather as based on childish memories than as the actual printed script of
a prodigy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Moon Mountains (HURST AND BLACKETT) is a story which with the best will in the world I found
it impossible to regard wholly seriously. The greater part of the scene is laid in Darkest
Africa, where the father of the hero, Peter (my hope that the Peter habit had blown over appears
to have been premature), disappears at an early stage. The subsequent course of events reminds
me of the words of the musical-comedy poet, popular in my youth, who wrote, "It were better
for you rather not to try and find your father, than to find him"--well, certainly better than
to find him as Peter found his. Perhaps it would not be unfair to suppose that Miss MARGARET
PETERSON had at this point her eye already firmly fixed upon her big situation. Certainly the
course of Peter is rather impatiently and spasmodically sketched till the moment when matters
are sufficiently advanced to ship him also to Africa, in company with an elderly hunter of
butterflies named Mellis. Their adventures form the bulk of the tale (filled out with some
chat about elephants, and a sufficiency of love-making on the part of Peter), and I suppose
I need hardly tell you how one of them, poor Mellis, is immediately captured and brought before
the terrible white king of the hidden lands, nor how this same monarch, a really dreadfully
unpleasant person, turns out to be--Precisely. So there the tale is; little more incredible
than, I dare say, most of its kind; and if you have no rooted objection to characters all of
whom behave like persons who know they are in a book there is no reason why you should not
find it at least passably entertaining.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. F. BRETT YOUNG'S manner of presenting The Tragic Bride (SECKER) is not free from affectation,
and this is the more irritating because his literary style is in itself admirably unpretentious.
But having recorded this complaint I gladly go on to declare that his tale of Gabrielle Hewish
has both charm and distinction. I protest my belief in Gabrielle both in her Irish and English
homes, but my protest would have been superfluous if Mr. BRETT YOUNG had not almost super-taxed
my powers of belief. So also with Arthur Payne; he is a fascinating lad, and the battle between
his mother and Gabrielle for possession of him was a royal struggle, fought without gloves
yet very fairly. All the same I caught myself doubting once or twice whether any boy could
at the same time be so human and so inhuman. It is to Mr. BRETT YOUNG'S credit that these doubts
do not interfere with one's enjoyment of his book, and the reason is that he is first and last
and all the time an artist.

       *       *       *       *       *

