    When summer came, the little girls were taken to the sea,
    And left their rabbit with the groom--a youth of twenty-three.
    They bathed and dug upon the shore, and played with Cousin Jack;
    They heard the band upon the sand, and rode on donkey-back.

    Then home they came, and went at once to see their Bunny dear,
    To stroke his ribs, and pat his head, and feel each wiry ear;
    But oh! alas! they found him not--the rabbit was not there!
    His hutch, like Mrs. Hubbard's shelf, was very, very bare.

    Now, where is he? They called the groom, the youth of twenty-three,
    And said, "Oh, George, where's Bunny gone? Oh where, oh where is
            he?"
    "He's in the hot-house," George replied; "the gardener put him
            there,
    For he was growing thinner, miss, and losing all his hair."

    They trotted to the garden then, and there the Bunny found,
    And 'neath a vine beheld their pet reposing on the ground.
    "Why, what is that?" they both exclaimed; "can that a rabbit be?
    I never in my life before so strange a thing did see!"

    They were surprised, and certainly the sight was strange to view,
    For Bunny looked so very huge, and such a bundle too!
    Such fat he had, and lots of hair, they longed a bit to pull;
    He was exactly like a ball of living cotton-wool.

    No tailor ever did produce a coat so superfine,
    'Twas white as snow, and very thick on stomach, chest and spine--
    As thick as heads of stupid boys with countenances glum;
    And oh! the hair was very long--as long as any sum!

    A host of friends and neighbors came the funny sight to see,
    To one and all a rabbit forced was quite a novelty;
    And everybody petted him, and loved him very much,
    And brought him goody-goodies for the larder in his hutch.

           *       *       *       *       *

    One day--and now my pen and ink the deepest mourning wear--
    They let him out upon the lawn for exercise and air;
    They turned their backs, two dogs rushed up, and one, with swelling
            chest,
    Seized Bunny by his woolly throat, and--you must guess the rest.

UP AND DOING.

    Boys, be up and doing,
      For the day's begun;
    Soon will come the noontide,
      Then the set of sun;
    At your tasks toil bravely
      Till your work is done.

    Let your hands be busy
      In some useful way;
    Don't neglect your study,
      Don't forget your play;
    There is time enough for each
      Every blessed day.

A DARING FEAT.

Remarkable for its spire, the loftiest of St. Petersburg, is the church of St. Peter and St.
Paul. An anecdote connected with this church, and not known, I believe, out of Russia, is worth
telling.

The day fixed for the adventure arrives. Telouchkine, provided with nothing more than a coil
of ropes, ascends the spire in the interior to the last window. Then digging the fingers of
one hand into the interstices of the sheets of copper, he raises one of the stirrups with the
other hand, so as to make it catch a nail higher up. The same operation he performs on behalf
of the other leg, and so on alternately.

So far, so well. But he now reaches the ball--a globe of between nine and ten feet in circumference.
The angel, the object of this visit, is above this ball, and concealed from his view by its
smooth, round, and glittering expanse. Only fancy the wretch at this moment, turning up his
grave eyes, and graver beard, to an obstacle that seems to defy the daring and intrepidity of man!

But Telouchkine is not dismayed. He is prepared for the difficulty; and the means he used to
surmount it exhibits the same remarkable simplicity as the rest of the feat.

                      Lilliput Lectures.

C--A--T.

FOR THE VERY LITTLE ONES.

    Be quiet, good Tabby!
      See how still you can be,
    For I'm going to teach you
      To spell C--A--T.

    I'll show you the way
      Mother reads it to me:
    She looks very sober,
      And says C--A--T.

    Fred says you can't learn,
      But we'll show him that we
    Can learn, if we please,
      To spell C--A--T.

    To what little May said
      Tabby did not agree,
    And I doubt if she learned
      To spell C--A--T.

THE GIRAFFE.

The creature which forms the subject of this paper is the giraffe, or camelopard (Camelopardalis
Giraffa) noted for its wonderful and beautiful form and its remarkable habits.

At the first sight of a giraffe, the spectator is struck by its enormously long neck, and will
naturally ask himself how it is supported, and how its mobility is preserved. Every one who
has the least acquaintance with anatomy is aware that a strong and very elastic ligament passes
down the back of the neck, and acts as a strap by which the head is preserved from falling
forward. In the giraffe this ligament (popularly called the paxwax) is of great length and
thickness, and is divided into longitudinal halves, and proceeds, not only down the entire
neck, but along the back, nearly to the tail. So powerful a band requires correspondingly large
attachments; and accordingly we find that the vertebræ of the shoulders send out enormously
long perpendicular processes, which give to the shoulder that height which is so eminent a
characteristic of the animal. To these processes the ligament of the neck is fastened by accessory
bands, which add both to its strength and elasticity.

The natives of Southern Africa make great use of this ligament, which is carefully removed
and dried. When the native wishes to make a kaross, or any other article of apparel, he soaks
a piece of the ligament in water, and then beats it with a stone. This treatment causes it
to split into filaments, which can be worked to almost any degree of fineness, and with these
the native sews his leathern dress. I have now before me a piece of this Kaffir thread, as
it is called. In its dry state, it is shrivelled and contracted, and no one who was not acquainted
with it could guess the purpose to which it was originally devoted.

Although the neck of the giraffe is so enormously long, it only consists of seven vertebræ,
as is indeed the rule throughout the mammalia. It seems very remarkable that in the neck of
the elephant and of the giraffe there should be precisely the same number of vertebræ. Such,
however, is the case, and the difference in length is caused by the great length of those bones
in the giraffe, and their shortness and flatness in the elephant.

The giraffe is a swift animal, and even upon level ground will put a horse to its utmost mettle;
but on rough and rocky ground, especially if the chase be directed up hill, the horse has no
chance against the giraffe, which can hop over the stones with the agility of the goat, and
even leap ravines which no horse will dare to face. So energetic is the animal when chased,
and so violently is the tail switched from side to side, that the long, stiff hairs hiss sharply
as they pass through the air.

Sometimes, but very rarely, the giraffe will miss its footing and fall to the ground; but it
recovers itself immediately, and is on its feet before much advantage can be taken of the mishap.
When it lies down intentionally, it is obliged to pack up its legs in a manner which seems
extremely awkward, although the animal can lie or rise with perfect ease; and, like the camel,
it possesses callosities upon the knees and breast, on which it rests while reposing.

The height of the giraffe is rather variable, but on an average is from twelve to eighteen feet.

THE LION ON THE THRESHOLD.

At Rietriverspoort, South Africa, writes Lichtenstein, we came to the dwelling of a farmer
named Van Wyk. Whilst we were resting our tired oxen, and enjoying the cool shade of the porch,
Van Wyk told us the following story:--

"It was something more than two years ago that here, in this spot where we are standing, I
had to make a daring shot. My wife was sitting in the house near the door, the children were
playing about, and I was busy doing something to my wagon on the other side of the house, when
suddenly what should we see, on the doorstep, but the shadow of a great lion darkening the
bright daylight. My wife, quite stunned with terror, and knowing also how dangerous it often
is to try and run away in such cases, remained in her place, while the children took refuge
upon her lap. Their cries made me aware of something having happened; and my astonishment and
consternation may be imagined when I discovered what guest was blocking up my entrance to my
own house.

"The lion had not as yet seen me: but how was I, unarmed as I was, to defend my family? Involuntarily
I moved along the side of the house towards the window, which was open; and, most happily for
me, I saw, standing in a corner of the room near the window, a loaded gun. I was able to reach
it with my hand, though the window, as you see, is too small for any one to get through. Still
more providential was it that the room door happened to be open, so that I could see the whole
terrible scene through the window. The lion had got into the house, and was looking steadfastly
at my wife and children. He made a movement, and seemed about to spring upon them, when, feeling
that there was no longer any time to waste in deliberating what was to be done, I uttered a
few encouraging words to my wife, and with God's help, shot right across the room into the
passage, where I struck the lion in the head, so that he could not move again. The ball had
passed close to the hair of my little boy."

