No. 5] Saturday, December 1, 1849. [Price Threepence.  Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

NOTES:--
  Lord Chatham--Queen Charlotte, Original Letter respecting
  Cibber's Apology
  Ancient Tapestry, by J.R. Planché
  Travelling in England
  Prison Discipline and Execution of Justice
  Medal of the Pretender, by Edw.

    Original Letter, written on the Resignation of Mr. Pitt, in
    1761--Public Feeling on the Subject, and Changes at Court in
    consequence--First Impressions of Queen Charlotte.

[The following valuable original letter is now published for the first time. It will be found
to be of very considerable historical curiosity and interest. The resignation of the Great
Commoner in 1761, and his acceptance at the same time of a pension and a peerage for his family,
were events which astonished his admirers as much as any thing else in his wonderful career.
Even now, after the recent publication of all the letters relating to these transactions, it
is difficult to put any construction on Mr. Pitt's conduct which is consistent with the high-spirited
independence which one desires to believe to have been a leading feature of his character.
There may have been great subtlety in the way in which he was tempted; that may be admitted
even by the stoutest defenders of the character of George III; but nothing can excuse the eager,
rapturous gratitude with which the glittering bait was caught. The whole circumstances are
related in the Chatham Correspondence, ii. 146, coupled with Adolphus's Hist. of England.

A kind judgment upon them may be read in Lord Mahon's Hist. of England, iv. 365, and one more
severe--perhaps, more just--in Lord Brougham's Historical Sketches, in the article on Lord
Chatham. See also the Pictorial History of the Reign of George III, i. 13. After consulting
all these authorities the reader will still find new facts, and a vivid picture of the public
feeling, in the following letter.]

Dear Robinson,--I am much obliged to you for both your letters, particularly the last, in which
I look upon the freedom of your expostulations as the strongest mark of your friendship, and
allow you to charge me with any thing that possibly can be brought against one upon such an
occasion, except forgetfulness of you. I left town soon after receiving your first letter,
and was moving about from place to place, till the coronation brought me to town again, and
has fixed me here for the winter; however I do not urge my unsettled situation during the summer
as any excuse for my silence, but aim to lay it upon downright indolence, which I was ashamed
of before I received your second letter, and have been angry with myself for it since; however,
as often as you'll do me the pleasure, and a very sincere one it is I assure you, of letting
me hear how you do, you may depend upon the utmost punctuality for the future, and I undertake
very seriously to answer every letter you shall write me within a fortnight.

The ensuing winter may possibly produce many things to amaze you; it has opened with one that
I am sure will; I mean Mr. Pitt's resignation, who delivered up the seals to the King last
Monday. The reason commonly given for this extraordinary step is a resolution taken in Council
contrary to Mr. Pitt's opinion, concerning our conduct towards the Spaniards, who upon the
breaking off of the negotiations with France and our sending Mr. Bussy away, have, it is said,
made some declarations to our Court which Mr. Pitt was for having the King treat in a very
different manner from that which the rest of the Cabinet advised; for they are said to have
been all against Mr. Pitt's opinion, except Lord Temple. The effect of this resignation you'll
easily imagine. It has opened all the mouths of all the news-presses in England, and, from
our boasted unanimity and confidence in the Government, we seem to be falling apace into division
and distrust; in the meantime Mr. Pitt seems to have entered, on this occasion, upon a new
mode of resignation, at least for him, for he goes to Court, where he is much taken notice
of by the King, and treated with great respect by everybody else, and has said, according to
common report, that he intends only to tell a plain story, which I suppose we are to have in
the House of Commons. People, as you may imagine, are very impatient for his own account of
a matter about which they know so little at present, and which puts public curiosity to the rack.

Fresh matter for patriots and politicians! Since writing the former part of this letter, I
have been at the coffee-house, and bring you back verbatim, a very curious article of the Gazette.
"St. James's, Oct. 9. The Right Hon. William Pitt having resigned the Seals into the King's
hands, his Majesty was this day pleased to appoint the Earl of Egremont to be one of his principal
Secretaries of State, and in consideration of the great and important services of the said
Mr. Pitt, his Majesty has been graciously pleased to direct that a warrant be prepared for
granting to the Lady Hester Pitt, his wife, a Barony of Great Britain, by the name, style and
title of Baroness of Chatham to herself, and of Baron of Chatham to her heirs male; and also
to confer upon the said William Pitt, Esq. an annuity of 3000l. sterling during his own life,
that of Lady Hester Pitt, and that of their son John Pitt, Esq!"

A report of this matter got about the day before, and most unfortunately all the newspapers
contradicted it as a scandalous report, set on foot with a design to tarnish the lustre of
a certain great character. This was the style of the morning and evening papers of Saturday,
and of those who converse upon their authority; so that upon the coming in of the Gazette about
ten o'clock at night, it was really diverting to see the effect it had upon most people's countenances
at Dick's Coffee House, where I was; it occasioned a dead silence, and I think every body went
away without giving their opinions of the matter, except Dr. Collier, who has always called
Mr. Pitt all the rogues he can set his mouth on. It appears at present a most unaccountable
proceeding in every part of it, for he seems to have forfeited his popularity, on which his
consequence depended, for a consideration which he might have commanded at any time; and yet
he does not make an absolute retreat, for in that case one should think he would have taken
the peerage himself.

Lord Temple has resigned the Privy Seal, which is commonly said to be intended for Lord Hardwycke;
some comfort to him for the loss of his wife, who died a few weeks ago. So that we seem to
be left in the same hands out of which Mr. Pitt gloried in having delivered us; for, as you
have probably heard before this time, Mr. Legge was removed from his place in the spring, for
having refused to support any longer our German measures, as has been commonly said and not
contradicted that I know of. Every body agrees that he was quite tired of his place, as is
generally said on account of the coolness between him and Mr. Pitt, the old quarrel with the
Duke of Newcastle, and some pique between him and Lord Bute on account of the Hampshire election.
People were much diverted with the answer he is said to have made to the Duke of Newcastle
when he went to demand the seal of his office. He compared his retirement to Elysium, and told
the Duke he thought he might assure their common friends there, that they should not be long
without the honour of his Grace's company; however, he seems to be out in his guess, for the
Newcastle junta, strengthened by the Duke of Bedford, who has joined them, seems to be in all
its glory again. This appeared in the Church promotions the other day, for Dr. Young was translated,
the master of Bennet made a bishop, and Mr. York dean: however, as you will probably be glad
of a more particular account of our Church promotions, I am to tell you that the scene opened
soon after the King's accession with the promotion of Dr. Squire to the Bishoprick of St. David's,
upon the death of Ellis. Some circumstances of this affair inclined people to think that the
old ecclesiastical shop was quite shut up; for the Duke of Newcastle expressed great dissatisfaction
at Squire's promotion, and even desired Bishop Young to tell every body that he had no hand
in it. Young answered, that he need not give himself that trouble, for Dr. Squire had told
every body so already, which is generally said to be very true: for he did not content himself
with saying how much he was obliged to Lord Bute, but seemed to be afraid lest it should be
thought he was obliged to any body else. What an excellent courtier! The next vacancy was made
by Hoadly, upon which Thomas was translated from Salisbury to Winchester, Drummond from St.
Asaph to Salisbury, Newcome from Llandaff to St. Asaph, and that exemplary divine Dr. Ewer
made Bishop of Llandaff. These were hardly settled when Sherlock and Gilbert dropt almost together.
Drummond has left Salisbury for York, Thomas is translated from Lincoln to Salisbury, Green
made Bishop of Lincoln, and succeeded in his deanery by Mr. York: Hayter is translated from
Norwich to London, Young from Bristol to Norwich, and Newton is made Bishop of Bristol; and
I must not forget to tell you, that, among several new chaplains, Beadon is one. This leads
me naturally to Lord Bute, who, though the professed favourite of the King, has hitherto escaped
the popular clamour pretty well: the immense fortune that is come into his family by the death
of old Wortley Montague has added much to his consequence, and made him be looked upon as more
of an Englishman, at least they can no longer call him a poor Scot.

His wife was created a peeress of Great Britain at the same time that Mr. Spencer, Mr. Doddington,
Sir Richard Grosvenor, Sir Nat. Curzen, Sir Thomas Robinson, and Sir William Irby were created
peers. He has married his eldest daughter to Sir James Lowther and is himself, from being Groom
of the Stole, become Secretary of State--Lord Holderness being removed with very little ceremony
indeed, but with a pension, to make room for him. He and Mr. Pitt together have made good courtiers
of the Tories; Lords Oxford, Litchfield, and Bruce, being supernumerary lords, and Norbonne
Berkeley, Northey, and I think George Pitt, supernumerary Grooms of the Bedchamber. Sir Francis
Dashwood is Treasurer of the Chamber, in the room of Charles Townshend, who was made Secretary
at War upon Lord Barrington's succeeding Mr. Legge as Chancellor of the Exchequer. Lord Talbot,
who is in high favour, is Steward of the Household, and with his usual spirit has executed
a scheme of economy, which, though much laughed at at first, is now much commended. They made
room for him upon Lord Bute's being made Secretary, at which time Lord Huntingdon was made
Groom of the Stole, and succeeded as Master of the Horse by the Duke Rutland, who was before
Steward of the Household. Thus have I concluded this series of removals, which was first begun,
after the old King's death, by Lord Bute's being Groom of the Stole in the room of Lord Rochford,
who has a pension, and Lord Huntingdon's being made Master of the Horse instead of Lord Gower,
who was made Master of the Wardrobe in the room of Sir Thomas Robinson, who has his peerage
for a recompense; and written you a long letter, which may perhaps be no better for you upon
the whole than an old newspaper. However, I was determined your curiosity should be no sufferer
by my long silence if I could help it.

I must not conclude without saying something of our new Queen. She seems to me to behave with
equal propriety and civility, though the common people are quite exasperated at her not being
handsome, and the people at Court laugh at her courtesies. All our friends are well, and have
had nothing happen to them that I know of which requires particular mention. Gisborne either
has or will write to you very soon. Convince me, dear Robinson, by writing soon that you forgive
my long silence, and believe me to be, with the sincerest regard for you and yours, your most
affectionate friend,

G. CRUCH.[1]

Mrs. Wilson's, Lancaster Court, Oct'r. 12th.

(Addressed)

To The Ho'd Mr. Will'm Robinson Recomende a Messieurs Tierney & Merry[2] a Naples.

(Memorandum indorsed) Ring just rec'd that of 22't Sept. 16th Oct'r. 1761.

    [Footnote 1: The name is not easy to be made out; but as far as it
    is determinable by comparison of hand-writing, it is "Cruch." The
    letter passed through the post-office.]

    [Footnote 2: The part printed in italics was added by some other
    person than the writer of the letter.]

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARACTERS OF ACTORS IN CIBBER'S APOLOGY.

Reverting to a Query in your Second Number, p. 29, your correspondent DRAMATICUS may rest assured
that Colley Cibber's characters of actors and actresses (his contemporaries and immediate predecessors)
first appeared in his Apology, 4to. 1740, and were transferred verbatim, as far as I have been
able to consult them, to the subsequent editions of that very entertaining and excellent work.
If Colley Cibber were not a first-rate dramatist, he was a first-rate critic upon performers;
and I am disposed to place his abilities as a play-wright much higher than the usual estimate.

Probably the doubt of your correspondent arose from the fact, not hitherto at all noticed,
that these characters no sooner made their appearance, than they were pirated, and pirated
work may have been taken for the original. It is a scarce tract, and bears the following title--The
Theatrical Lives and Characters of the following celebrated Actors; and then follow sixteen
names, beginning with Betterton, and ending with Mrs. Butler, and we are also told that A General
History of the Stage during their time is included. The whole of this, with certain omissions,
principally of classical quotations, is taken from Cibber's Apology, and it professed to be
"Printed for J. Miller, in Fleet Street, and sold at the pamphlet shops," without date. The
whole is nothing but an impudent plagiarism, and it is crowned and topped by a scrap purporting
to be from Shakespeare, but merely the invention of the compiler. In truth, it is the only
original morsel in the whole seventy pages. At the end of the character of Betterton, the following
is subjoined, and it induces a Query, whether any such work, real or pretended, as regards
Betterton, is in existence?

"N.B. The author of this work has, since he began it, had a very curious manuscript of Mr.
Betterton's communicated to him, containing the whole duty of a Player; interspersed with directions
for young Actors, as to the management of the voice, carriage of the body, &c. &c., reckoned
the best piece that has ever been wrote on the subject," p. 22.

This "best piece" on the subject is promised in the course of the volume, but it is not found
in it. Did it appear anywhere else and in any other shape? As the Query of DRAMATICUS is now
answered, perhaps he may be able to reply to this question from

T.J.L.

I should have sent this note sooner, had I not waited to see if any body else would answer
the Query of DRAMATICUS, and perhaps afford some additional information.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT TAPESTRY.

Sir,--I believe I can answer a Query in your Third Number, by N., respecting the whereabouts
of a piece of ancient tapestry formerly in the possession of Mr. Yarnold, of Great St. Helen's,
London, described, upon no satisfactory authority, as "the Plantagenet Tapestry." It is at
present the property of Thos. Baylis, Esq., of Colby House, Kensington. A portion of it has
been engraved as representing Richard III, &c.; but it is difficult to say what originated
that opinion. The subject is a crowned female seated by a fountain, and apparently threatening
two male personages with a rod or slight sceptre, which she has raised in her left hand, her
arm being stayed by another female standing behind her. This has been said to represent Elizabeth
of York driving out Richard III, which, I need scarcely say, she did not do. There are nineteen
other figures, male and female, looking on or in conversation, all attired in the costume of
the close of the 15th century, but without the least appearance of indicating any historical
personage. It is probably an allegorical subject, such as we find in the tapestry of the same
date under the gallery of Wolsey's Hall at Hampton Court, and in that of Nancy published by
Mons. Juninal.

I believe one of the seven pieces of "the siege of Troy," mentioned in Query, No. 3, or an
eighth piece unmentioned, is now in the possession of Mr. Pratt, of Bond Street, who bought
it of Mr. Yarnold's widow.

I may add that the tapestry in St. Mary's Hall, Coventry, contains, undoubtedly, representations
of King Henry VI, Queen Margaret, and Cardinal Beaufort. It is engraved in Mr. Shaw's second
volume of Dresses and Decorations; but the date therein assigned to it (before 1447) is erroneous,
the costume being, like that in the tapestries above mentioned, of the very end of the 15th
century.

J.R. PLANCHÉ.

Brompton, Nov. 20. 1849.

[To this Note, so obligingly communicated by Mr. Planché, we may add, that the tapestry in
question was exhibited to the Society of Antiquaries at their opening meeting on the 22nd ultimo.]

       *       *       *       *       *

TRAVELLING IN ENGLAND.

Mr. Editor,--Your No. 3. has just fallen into my hands, with the wonderful account of Schultz's
journey of fifty miles in six hours, a hundred years ago. I am inclined to think the explanation
consists in a misprint. The distances are given in figures, and not in words at length, if
we may trust your correspondent's note on p. 35. May not a 1 have "dropped" before the 6, so
that the true lection will be, "dass wir auf dem ganzen Wege kaum 16 Stunden gefahren sind"?
This time corresponds with the time of return, on which he set out in the evening (at 8?) of
one day and arrived at noon the next. It was also most likely that the spring carriages of
fifteen years later date should go much faster than the old springless vehicles. Any one who
has corrected proofs will appreciate the "dropping" of a single type, and may be ready to admit
it on such circumstantial evidence.

I may remark that 1749 was still Old Style in England; but the German Schultz, in dating his
expedition on Sunday, 10 Aug. 1749, has used the New Style, then prevalent in Germany. Sunday,
10 Aug. 1749, O.S., was on Thursday, 31 July, 1749, N.S. The York coach-bill cited on the same
page is in O.S.

Is not "Stäts-Kutsche," in the same communication, a misprint?

A.J.E.

G.G. has perhaps a little overrated the import of the passage he quotes from Schultz's travels.
"Dass wir kaum 6 Stunden gefahren sind"--even supposing there is no misprint of a 6 for an
8 or 9, which is quite possible--will not, I apprehend, bear the meaning he collects from the
words, viz. that the journey occupied no more than six hours, or less even than so much.

In the first place, I believe it will be allowed by those familiar with German idioms, that
the phrase kaum 6 Stunden, is not to be rendered as though it meant no more or less than 6;
but rather thus: "but little more than 6;"--the "little more," in this indefinite form of expression,
being a very uncertain quantity, it may be an hour or so.

Then he says merely that they "kaum 6 Stunden gefahren sind," which may mean that the time
actually spent in motion did not exceed the number of hours indicated, whatever that may be;
and not that the journey itself, "including stoppages," took up no more. Had he meant to say
this, I imagine he would have used a totally different phrase: e. g. dass wir binnen kaum mehr
als 6 Stunden nach London schön gekommen sind; or something like these words.

Making these allowances, the report is conceivably true, even of a period a century old, as
regards the rate of day-travelling on the high road to Norwich, still at that time a place
of much business with London. The second journey of the Pastor on the same road was, it seems,
by night: but what perhaps is of more consequence to explain is the apparent difference between
it and the other. It appears that in the second instance we are told when he arrived at his
journey's end; in the former, nothing beyond the number of hours he was actually moving, may
have been communicated to us.

V.

         *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Editor,--I close copies of advertisements which appear in some old newspapers in my possession,
and which in some degree illustrate the history of travelling, and in themselves show, I imagine,
the advance made between 1739 and 1767, since I consider that "The Old Constant Froom Flying
Waggon," of the former date, was the parent of "The Frome Stage Machine" of the latter.

I notice in the Sherborne paper all public stage conveyances are designated as machines.

Copies of advertisements in The Daily Advertiser of the 9th April, 1739:--

    "For Bath.

    A good Coach and able Horses will set out from the Black Swan Inn,
    in Holborn, on Wednesday or Thursday.

    Enquire of William Maud."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Exeter Flying Stage Coach in Three Days, and Dorchester and
    Blandford in two days.

    Go from the Saracen's Head Inn, in Friday Street, London, every
    Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and from the New Inn, in Exeter,
    every Tuesday and Thursday, perform'd by

    JOAN PAYNE,

    JOHN SANDERSON,

    THOMAS BURY.

    Note.--Once a week there is an entire Dorchester and Blandford
    Coach from Dorchester on Mondays, and from London on Fridays.

    The stage begins Flying on Monday next, the 16th instant."

       *       *       *       *       *

"The old standing constant Froom Flying Waggon in Three days

Sets out with goods and Passengers from Froom for London, every Monday, by One o'clock in the
morning, and will be at the King's Arms Inn, at Holborn Bridge, the Wednesday following by
Twelve o'clock at Noon; from whence it will set out on Thursday morning, by One o'clock, for
Amesbury, Shrewton, Chittern, Heytesbury, Warminster, Froom, and all other places adjacent,
and will continue allowing each passenger fourteen pounds, and be at Froom, on Saturday by
twelve at noon.

If any Passengers have Occasion to go from either of the aforesaid Places they shall be supplied
with able Horses and a Guide by Joseph Clavey; the Proprietor of the said Flying Waggon. The
Waggon calls at the White Bear in Piccadilly coming in and going out.

Note.--Attendance is constantly given at the King's Arms, Holborn Bridge aforesaid, to take
in Goods and Passengers' names; but no Money, Plate, Bank Notes, or Jewels will be insured
unless delivered as such, perform'd by

JOSEPH CLAYEY.

N.B. His other Waggons keep their Stages as usual."

From Cruttwell's Sherborne, Shaftesbury, and Dorchester Journal, or Yeovil, Taunton, and Bridgewater
Chronicle, of Friday, February 6th, 12th, and 20th, 1767.

    "Taunton Flying Machine,

    Hung on Steel Springs, in Two Days

    Sets out from the Saracen's Head Inn in Friday Street, London, and
    Taunton, every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, at Three o'clock in the
    morning: and returns every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, lays at
    the Antelope in Salisbury, going Up and Down; To carry Six inside
    Passengers, each to pay

                            £    s.  d.
    To Taunton              1   16   0
       Ilminster            1   14   0
       Yeovil               1    8   0
       Sherborne            1    6   0
       Shaftesbury          1    4   0

    Outside Passengers and Children in the Lap, Half-Fare as above, each
    Inside Passenger allowed Fourteen Pounds Luggage; all above, to
    Taunton Two-pence per Pound and so in Proportion to any Part of the
    road.

    Note. No Money, Plate, Jewels, or Writings, will be accounted for
    if Lost, unless Entered as such, and Paid for accordingly.

    Performed by {JOHN WHITMASH, THOMAS LILEY.}"

From the same Paper of Friday, April 17th, 24th, and May 1st, 1767:--

"Frome, 1767.

  The Proprietors of the
  FROME STAGE MACHINE

    In Order to make it more agreeable to their Friends in the West,
    have engaged to set out Post Chaises from the Christopher Inn, in
    Wells, every Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday Evenings, at Five
    o'clock, to stop at the George Inn, at Shepton Mallet, and set out
    from thence at a Quarter past Six, to carry Passengers and Parcels
    to Frome, to be forwarded from thence to London in the One Day
    Flying Machine, which began on Sunday the 12th of April, 1767; Also
    a Chaise from Frome every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday Evenings
    to Shepton and Wells, as soon as the Coach arrives from London, if
    any Passengers, &c. go down, at the following Prices:--from Wells to
    Frome Four Shillings, from Shepton Three Shillings, small parcels
    from Wells to Frome 6d. each, from Shepton 4d., large ditto a
    Halfpenny per Pound from each place. All Passengers who intend
    taking the Advantage of this method of travelling, are desired to
    take their Places at the above Inns in Wells and Shepton as follows:
    viz. those who intend going on Sunday enter the Tuesday before
    going, those who go on Tuesday enter the Thursday before, and for
    Thursday the Sunday before, that proper notice may be given at Frome
    to secure the places: If at any time more than three Passengers an
    extra Chaise to be provided.

    Fare to and from London £1 8s. 0d. Trowbridge, £1 6s. 0d. Devizes £1
    2s. 6d. One half to be paid at Booking, the other at entering the
    machine. Inside passengers allowed 10lb. wt., all above Three
    Half-pence per pound from Frome as usual. The Coach will set out
    from the Crown Inn in Frome, at Ten o'clock in the evening of every
    Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday; and from the Bull Inn in Holborne,
    London, every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday Evening, at the same
    Hour.--Books are kept, Places taken, and Parcels received, at the
    Christopher in Wells, the George in Shepton, the Crown in Frome, the
    Woolpack in Trowbridge, and the Bull in Holborne, London; calls
    going in and coming out, at the White Bear Inn, Piccadilly, and the
    new White Horse Cellar.

    Perform'd by R. MESSETER, at the Crown, at Thatcham, and J.
    HITCHCOCK, at the Catherine Wheel, Beckhampton.

    "N.B. No Jewels, Plate, Money, Writings, or other things of Value,
    will be paid for if lost, unless enter'd as such, and paid for
    accordingly."

With regard to G.G.'s Query as to the time occupied in the journey of Schultz from Colchester
to London, do not the circumstances sufficiently prove that by some means six must have been
written for sixteen? Sixteen hours would give a rate of travelling nearer the average of those
days, and was about the time occupied on the return to Colchester. For if we allow a due time
after twelve for dinner, settling accounts, and going to the inn whence the "Stäts-Kutsche"
started, and for partaking of the meal there provided, we shall very easily get to seven or
eight in the evening; sixteen hours after that time would be "towards noon" in the following day.

A.D.M

      *      *      *      *      *

PRISON DISCIPLINE AND EXECUTION OF JUSTICE.

Sir,--I am glad that you devote some part of your columns to the good work of bringing forward
facts and anecdotes which, though not generally known, your readers individually may have happened
to notice, and which illustrate the manners of our ancestors. I dare say few of your correspondents
have met with the London Magazine for the year of 1741. An imperfect copy fell into my hands
when a lad; ever since which time I have been in a state of great wonderment at the story contained
in the leaf which I enclose. I need hardly say that the italics are mine; and perhaps they
are hardly necessary. Yours, &c., BETA.

    "TUESDAY, 21 [June].

    "A very extraordinary Affair happen'd at the County Gaol in
    Hertford, where four Highwaymen, very stout lusty Fellows, viz.
    Theophilus Dean, Charles Cox (alias Bacon-Face), James Smith, and
    Luke Humphrys, lay under Sentence of Death, pass'd on them the last
    Assizes, and were intended to have been executed the following Day;
    Mr. Oxenton, the Gaoler, who keeps an Inn opposite to the Prison,
    went into the Gaol about four a Clock in the Morning, as was his
    Custom, attended by three Men, to see if all was safe, and, having
    lock'd the outward Door, sent one of his Men down to the Dungeon,
    where the four Felons had found means to disengage themselves from
    the Pillar and Chain to which they had been lock'd down, and one of
    them, viz. Bacon-Face, had got off both his Hand-Cuffs and Fetters;
    on opening the Door, they disabled the Man and all rush'd out; then
    coming up Stairs they met the Gaoler and his other two Men, of whom
    they demanded the Keys, threatening to murder them if their request
    was not immediately comply'd with: they then forced his men into the
    Yard beyond the Hatchway, and a Battle ensu'd, in which the Gaoler
    behav'd so manfully, tho' he had but one Man to assist him, that he
    maintain'd the Possession of his Keys till he was heard by his Wife,
    then in Bed, to call out for Assistance, who fortunately having
    another Key to the Gaol, ran to rescue him; the Fellows saw her
    coming and demanded her Key, threatening to murder her if she
    offer'd to assist her Husband: By this Time the Neighbourhood was
    alarm'd, and several Persons got to the Gaol Door, when Mrs.
    Oxenton, notwithstanding their Threats, at the utmost Hazard of her
    Life, open'd the same and caught hold of her Husband, who was almost
    spent, and with the Assistance of some Persons, got him out and
    lock'd the Door without suffering the Fellows to escape: They
    continued cursing and swearing that they would murder the first Man
    that attempted to enter the Gaol. In the mean Time Robert Hadsley,
    Esq., High-Sheriff, who lives about a Mile from the Town, was sent
    for, and came immediately; he parley'd with them some Time to no
    Purpose, then order'd Fire-Arms to be brought, and, in case they
    would not submit, to shoot at them, which these Desparadoes refusing
    to do, they accordingly fired on them, and Theophilus Dean receiving
    a Shot in the Groin, dropt; then they surrender'd, and the Sheriff
    instantly caus'd Bacon-Face to be hang'd on the Arch of the Sign
    Iron belonging to the Gaoler's House, in the Sight of his
    Companions and great Numbers of People; the other three were
    directly put into a Cart and carried to the usual Place of
    Execution, and there hang'd before seven a Clock that
    Morning."--Lond. Mag. July, 1741, p. 360.

      *      *      *      *      *

SATIRICAL MEDAL OF THE PRETENDER.

I am well acquainted with the medal described by Mr. Nightingale, and can confirm his statement
of the difficulties which numismatists have experienced in attempting to explain the circumstances
alluded to by the lobster which is the badge of "the order of the pretended Prince of Wales,"
and upon which, on the other side of the medal, Father Petre is represented as riding with
the young prince in his arms. Upon other medals also the Jesuit appears carrying the prince,
who is decorated, or amusing himself, with a windmill. There is likewise a medal on which a
Jesuit is represented concealed within a closet or alter, and raising or pushing up through
the top the young prince to the view of the people, while Truth is opening the door and exposing
the imposition. Similar representations of the Jesuit's interference occur upon caricatures
and satirical prints executed in Holland. Upon one, entitled, "Arlequin sur l'Hippogryphe,
a la croisade Lojoliste," the lobster, on which the Jesuit is mounted, carries a book in each
claw; the young prince's head is decorated with a windmill. All these intimate the influence
of Father Petre upon the proceedings of James II, and of the Jesuits in general in the imposition,
as was by many supposed, of the pretended prince. The imputation upon the legitimacy of the
young child was occasioned in a great degree, and almost justified, by the pilgrimages and
superstitious fooleries of his grandmother, increased by his mother's choosing St. Francis
Xavier as one of her ecclesiastical patrons, and with her family attributing the birth of the
prince to his miraculous interference. This may have provoked the opposers of popery to take
every means of satirising the Jesuits; and the following circumstances related in the Life
of Xavier probably suggested the idea of making the lobster one of the symbols of the superstitions
and impositions of the Jesuits, and a means of discrediting the birth of the prince by ridiculing
the community by whose impositions they asserted the fraud to have been contrived and executed.

EDW. HAWKINS.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN AUBREY.

As the biographer and editor of that amiable and zealous antiquary JOHN AUBREY, I noticed with
peculiar interest the statement of your correspondent, that the date of your first publication
coincided with the anniversary of his birthday; but, unhappily, the coincidence is imaginary.
Your correspondent has, on that point, adopted a careless reading of the first chapter of Aubrey's
Miscellanies, whereby the 3rd of November, the birthday of the Duke of York, afterwards James
the Second, has been frequently stated as that of the antiquary himself. See my Memoir of Aubrey,
4to. 1845, p. 123. In the same volume, p. 13, will be found an engraving of the horoscope of
his nativity, from a sketch in his own hand. So far as his authority is of any value, that
curious sketch proves incontestably that "the Native" was born at 14 minutes and 49 seconds
past 17 o'clock (astronomical time) on the 11th of March, 1625-6; that is, at 14 minutes and
49 seconds past 5 o'clock A.M. on the 12th of March, instead of the 3rd of November.

Few things can be more mortifying to a biographer, or an antiquary, than the perpetuation of
an error which he has successfully laboured to correct. It is an evil, however, to which he
is often subjected, and which your valuable publication will go far to remedy. In the present
case it is, doubtless, to be ascribed to the peculiar nature of my Memoir of Aubrey, of which
but a limited number of copies were printed for the Wiltshire Topographical Society. The time
and labour which I bestowed upon the work, the interesting character of its contents, and the
approbation of able and impartial public critics, justify me in saying that it deserves a far
more extensive circulation.

After this allusion to John Aubrey, I think I cannot better evince my sympathy with your exertions
than by requesting the insertion of a Query respecting one of his manuscripts. I allude to
his Monumenta Brittanica, in four folio volumes--a dissertation on Avebury, Stonehenge, and
other stone circles, barrows, and similar Druidical monuments--which has disappeared within
the last thirty years. Fortunately a large portion of its contents has been preserved, in extracts
made by Mr. Hutchins, the historian of Dorsetshire, and by the late Sir Richard Colt Hoare,
Bart.; but the manuscript certainly contained much more of great local interest, and some matters
which were worthy of publication. In the Memoir already mentioned, p. 87, the history of the
manuscript down to the time of its disappearance is fully traced. Referring such of your readers
as may feel interested in the subject to that volume, and reserving for the future numbers
a long list of other interesting Queries which are now before me, it will gratify me to obtain,
through your medium, any information respecting the MS. referred to. I remain, Sir, yours truly,

JOHN BRITTON.

[Our modesty has compelled us to omit from this letter a warm eulogium on our undertaking,
well as we know the value of Mr. Britton's testimony to our usefulness, and much as we esteem it.]

       *       *       *       *       *

INEDITED SONG BY SIR JOHN SUCKLING.

I do not remember to have seen the following verses in print or even in MS. before I accidentally
met with them in a small quarto MS. Collection of English Poetry, in the hand-writing of the
time of Charles I. They are much in Suckling's manner; and in the MS. are described as--

Sir John Suckling's Verses.

  Yet still I'll love the fairsome (why?--
  For nothing but to please my eye);
  And so the fat and soft-skinned dame
  I'll flatter to appease my flame;
  For she that's musical I'll long,
  When I am sad, to sing a song;
    Then hang me, Ladies, at your door,
    If e'er I doat upon you more.

  I'll give my fancy leave to range
  Through every where to find out change;
  The black, the brown, the fair shall be
  But objects of variety.
  I'll court you all to serve my turn,
  But with such flames as shall not burn;
    Then hang me, Ladies, at your door,
    If e'er I doat upon you more.

A.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHITE GLOVES AT A MAIDEN ASSIZE.

The practice of giving white gloves to judges at maiden assizes is one of the few relics of
that symbolism so observable in the early laws of this as of all other countries; and its origin
is doubtless to be found in the fact of the hand being, in the early Germanic law, a symbol
of power. By the hand property was delivered over or reclaimed, hand joined in hand to strike
a bargain and to celebrate espousals, &c. That this symbolism should sometimes be transferred
from the hand to the glove (the hand-schuh of the Germans) is but natural, and it is in this
transfer that we shall find the origin of the white gloves in question. At a maiden assize
no criminal has been called upon to plead, or to use the words of Blackstone, "called upon
by name to hold up his hand;" in short, no guilty hand has been held up, and, therefore, after
the rising of the court our judges (instead of receiving, as they did in Germany, an entertainment
at which the bread, the glasses, the food, the linen--every thing, in short--was white) have
been accustomed to receive a pair of white gloves. The Spaniards have a proverb, "white hands
never offend;" but in their gallantry they use it only in reference to the softer sex; the
Teutonic races, however, would seem to have embodied the idea, and to have extended its application.

WILLIAM J. THOMS.

