The driver, finding he could get no light out of the passengers, seeing a tall, raw-boned woman
washing some clothes in front of a house, and who flew out of sight as the stage flew in, handed
me the reins as he jumped from his seat and chased the fugitive, hallooing,--

"I'fe got der small pox, I'fe got der--" Here his voice was lost as he dashed into the open
door of the house. But in a minute he reappeared, followed by a broom with an enraged woman
annexed, and a loud voice shouting out,--

"You git out of this! Clear yourself, quicker! I ain't goin' to have you diseasin' honest folks,
ef you have got the smallpox."

"I dells you I'fe got der small pox. Ton't you versteh? der SMALL POX!" This time he shouted
it out in capital letters!

"Clear out! I'll call the men-folks ef you don't clear;" and at once she shouted, in a tip-top
voice, "Ike, you Ike, where air you?"

Ike made his appearance on the full run.

"W-w-what's the matter, mother?"--Miss Scudder his mother! I should have been shocked, as I
was on my first visit to New Jersey, if I had not had a key to this. "That is a very pretty
girl," I said on that occasion to a Jersey-man; "who is she?"--"She's old Miss Perrine's da'ter,"
was the reply. I looked at the innocent victim of man's criminal conduct with commiseration.
"What a pity!" I remarked.

"Not such a very great pity," said Jersey, eying me very severely. "I reckon old man Perrine's
got as big a cedar-swamp as you, or I either, would like to own."

"Her grandfather you speak of?"

"No, I don't: I'm talking 'bout her father,--he that married Abe Simm's da'ter and got a power
of land by it; and that gal, their da'ter, one of these days will step right into them swamps."

"Oh," I replied, "Mrs. Perrine's daughter," accenting the "Missis!"

"Mussus or Miss, it's all the same in Jersey," he answered.

Knowing this, Ike's appeal was intelligible. To proceed with our story, the driver, very angry
by this time, shouted,--

"I dells you oonst more for der last dime. I'fe got der small pox! unt Mishter Ellis he gifs
me a leffy to gif der small pox to Miss Scutter; unt if dat vrow is Miss Scutter, I bromised
to gif her ter small pox."

It was Miss Scudder, and I explained to her that it was a small box he had for her. The affair
was soon settled as regarded its delivery, but not as regards the laughter and shouts of the
occupants of the old stage-coach as we rolled away from Jericho. The driver joined in, although
he had no earthly idea as to its cause, and added not a little to it by saying, in a triumphant
tone of voice,--

"I vos pound to gif ter olt voomans ter small pox!"

WALK

BY WILLIAM DEVERE

    Up the dusty road from Denver town
    To where the mines their treasures hide,
    The road is long, and many miles,
    The golden styre and town divide.
    Along this road one summer's day,
    There toiled a tired man,
    Begrimed with dust, the weary way
    He cussed, as some folks can.
    The stranger hailed a passing team
    That slowly dragged its load along;
    His hail roused up the teamster old,
    And checked his merry song.
    "Say-y, stranger!" "Wal, whoap."

    "Ken I walk behind your load
    A spell in this road?"
    "Wal, no, yer can't walk, but git
    Up on this seat an' ride; git up hyer."
    "Nop, that ain't what I want,
    Fur it's in yer dust, that's like a smudge,
    I want to trudge, for I desarve it."
    "Wal, pards, I ain't no hog, an' I don't
    Own this road, afore nor 'hind.
    So jest git right in the dust
    An' walk, if that's the way yer 'clined.
    Gee up, ger lang!" the driver said.
    The creaking wagon moved amain,
    While close behind the stranger trudged,
    And clouds of dust rose up again.

    The teamster heard the stranger talk
    As if two trudged behind his van,
    Yet, looking 'round, could only spy
    A single lonely man.
    Yet heard the teamster words like these
    Come from the dust as from a cloud,
    For the weary traveler spoke his mind.
    His thoughts he uttered loud,
    And this the burden of his talk:
    "Walk, now, you ----, walk!
    Not the way you went to Denver?
    Walk, ---- ----! Jest walk!

    "Went up in the mines an' made yer stake,
    'Nuff to take yer back to ther state
    Whar yer wur born.
    Whar'n hell's yer corn?
    Wal, walk, you ----, walk!

    "Dust in yer eyes, dust in yer nose,
    Dust down yer throat, and thick
    On yer clothes. Can't hardly talk?
    I know it, but walk, you ----, walk!

    "What did yer do with all yer tin?
    Ya-s, blew every cent of it in;
    Got drunk, got sober, got drunk agin.
    Wal, walk, ----! Jest walk.

    "What did yer do? What didn't yer do?
    Why, when ye war thar, yer gold-dust flew,
    Yer thought it fine to keep op'nin' wine.
    Now walk, you ----, walk.

    "Stop to drink? What--water?
    Why, thar
    Water with you warn't anywhere.
    'Twas wine, Extra Dry. Oh,
    You flew high--
    Now walk, you ----, walk.

    "Chokes yer, this dust? Wal, that
    Ain't the wust,
    When yer get back whar the
    Diggins are
    No pick, no shovel, no pan;
    Wal, yer a healthy man,
    Walk--jest walk."

    The fools don't all go to Denver town,
    Nor do they all from the mines come down.
    'Most all of us have in our day--
    In some sort of shape, some kind of way--
    Painted the town with the old stuff,
    Dipped in stocks or made some bluff,
    Mixed wines, old and new,
    Got caught in wedlock by a shrew,
    Stayed out all night, tight,
    Rolled home in the morning light,
    With crumpled tie and torn clawhammer,
    'N' woke up next day with a katzenjammer,
    And walked, oh ----, how we walked.

    Now, don't try to yank every bun,
    Don't try to have all the fun,
    Don't think that you know it all,
    Don't think real estate won't fall,
    Don't try to bluff on an ace,
    Don't get stuck on a pretty face,
    Don't believe every jay's talk--
    For if you do you can bet you'll walk!

LOVE SONNETS OF A HOODLUM

BY WALLACE IRWIN

I

    Say, will she treat me white, or throw me down,
    Give me the glassy glare, or welcome hand,
    Shovel me dirt, or treat me on the grand,
    Knife me, or make me think I own the town?
    Will she be on the level, do me brown,
    Or will she jolt me lightly on the sand,
    Leaving poor Willie froze to beat the band,
    Limp as your grandma's Mother Hubbard gown?

    I do not know, nor do I give a whoop,
    But this I know: if she is so inclined
    She can come play with me on our back stoop,
    Even in office hours, I do not mind--
    In fact I know I'm nice and good and ready
    To get an option on her as my steady.

VIII

    I sometimes think that I am not so good,
    That there are foxier, warmer babes than I,
    That Fate has given me the calm go-by
    And my long suit is sawing mother's wood.
    Then would I duck from under if I could,
    Catch the hog special on the jump and fly
    To some Goat Island planned by destiny
    For dubs and has-beens and that solemn brood.
    But spite of bug-wheels in my cocoa tree,
    The trade in lager beer is still a-humming,
    A schooner can be purchased for a V
    Or even grafted if you're fierce at bumming.
    My finish then less clearly do I see,
    For lo! I have another think a-coming.

IX

    Last night I tumbled off the water cart--
    It was a peacherino of a drunk;
    I put the cocktail market on the punk
    And tore up all the sidewalks from the start.
    The package that I carried was a tart
    That beat Vesuvius out for sizz and spunk,
    And when they put me in my little bunk
    You couldn't tell my jag and me apart.

    Oh! would I were the ice man for a space,
    Then might I cool this red-hot cocoanut,
    Corral the jim-jam bugs that madly race
    Around the eaves that from my forehead jut--
    Or will a carpenter please come instead
    And build a picket fence around my head?

XII

    Life is a combination hard to buck,
    A proposition difficult to beat,
    E'en though you get there Zaza with both feet,
    In forty flickers, it's the same hard luck,
    And you are up against it nip and tuck,
    Shanghaied without a steady place to eat,
    Guyed by the very copper on your beat
    Who lays to jug you when you run amuck.
    O Life! you give Yours Truly quite a pain.
    On the T square I do not like your style;
    For you are playing favorites again
    And you have got me handicapped a mile.
    Avaunt, false Life, with all your pride and pelf:
    Go take a running jump and chase yourself!

XIV

    O mommer! wasn't Mame a looty toot
    Last night when at the Rainbow Social Club
    She did the bunny hug with every scrub
    From Hogan's Alley to the Dutchman's Boot,
    While little Willie, like a plug-eared mute,
    Papered the wall and helped absorb the grub,
    Played nest-egg with the benches like a dub
    When hot society was easy fruit!

    Am I a turnip? On the strict Q.T.,
    Why do my Trilbys get so ossified?
    Why am I minus when it's up to me
    To brace my Paris Pansy for a glide?
    Once more my hoodoo's thrown the game and scored
    A flock of zeros on my tally-board.

XXI

    At noon to-day Murphy and Mame were tied.
    A gospel huckster did the referee,
    And all the Drug Clerks' Union loped to see
    The queen of Minnie Street become a bride,
    And that bad actor, Murphy, by her side,
    Standing where Yours Despondent ought to be.
    I went to hang a smile in front of me,
    But weeps were in my glimmers when I tried.
    The pastor murmured, "Two and two make one,"
    And slipped a sixteen K on Mamie's grab;
    And when the game was tied and all was done
    The guests shied footwear at the bridal cab,
    And Murphy's little gilt-roofed brother Jim
    Snickered, "She's left her happy home for him."

HOW "RUBY" PLAYED

BY GEORGE W. BAGBY

(Jud Brownin, when visiting New York, goes to hear Rubinstein, and gives the following description
of his playing.)

Well, sir, he had the blamedest, biggest, catty-cornerdest pianner you ever laid eyes on; somethin'
like a distracted billiard-table on three legs. The lid was hoisted, and mighty well it was.
If it hadn't been, he'd 'a' tore the entire inside clean out and shattered 'em to the four
winds of heaven.

Played well? You bet he did; but don't interrupt me. When he first sit down he 'peared to keer
mighty little 'bout playin' and wisht he hadn't come. He tweedle-leedled a little on a treble,
and twoodle-oodled some on the base,--just foolin' and boxin' the thing's jaws for bein' in
his way. And I says to a man sittin' next to me, says I, "What sort of fool playin' is that?"
And he says, "Heish!" But presently his hands commenced chasin' one another up and down the
keys, like a passel of rats scamperin' through a garret very swift. Parts of it was sweet,
though, and reminded me of a sugar squirrel turnin' the wheel of a candy cage.

"Now," I says to my neighbor, "he's showin' off. He thinks he's a-doin' of it, but he ain't
got no idee, no plan of nothin'. If he'd play me a tune of some kind or other, I'd--"

But my neighbor says, "Heish!" very impatient.

I was just about to git up and go home, bein' tired of that foolishness, when I heard a little
bird waking up away off in the woods and call sleepy-like to his mate, and I looked up and
see that Rubin was beginning to take some interest in his business, and I sit down again. It
was the peep of day. The light came faint from the east, the breezes blowed gentle and fresh,
some more birds waked up in the orchard, then some more in the trees near the house, and all
begun singin' together. People began to stir, and the gal opened the shutters. Just then the
first beam of the sun fell upon the blossoms a leetle more, and it techt the roses on the bushes,
and the next thing it was broad day; the sun fairly blazed, the birds sung like they'd split
their little throats; all the leaves was movin', and flashin' diamonds of dew, and the whole
wide world was bright and happy as a king. Seemed to me like there was a good breakfast in
every house in the land, and not a sick child or woman anywhere. It was a fine mornin'.

And I says to my neighbor, "That's music, that is."

But he glared at me like he'd like to cut my throat.

Presently the wind turned; it begun to thicken up, and a kind of gray mist came over things;
I got low-spirited directly. Then a silver rain began to fall. I could see the drops touch
the ground; some flashed up like long pearl ear-rings, and the rest rolled away like round
rubies. It was pretty, but melancholy. Then the pearls gathered themselves into long strands
and necklaces, and then they melted into thin silver streams, running between golden gravels,
and then the streams joined each other at the bottom of the hill, and made a brook that flowed
silent, except that you could kinder see the music, especially when the bushes on the banks
moved as the music went along down the valley. I could smell the flowers in the meadow. But
the sun didn't shine, nor the birds sing: it was a foggy day, but not cold.

The most curious thing was the little white angel-boy, like you see in pictures, that run ahead
of the music brook and led it on, and on, away out of the world, where no man ever was, certain,
I could see the boy just as plain as I see you. Then the moonlight came, without any sunset,
and shone on the graveyards, where some few ghosts lifted their hands and went over the wall,
and between the black, sharp-top trees splendid marble houses rose up, with fine ladies in
the lit-up windows, and men that loved 'em, but could never get anigh 'em, who played on guitars
under the trees, and made me that miserable I could have cried, because I wanted to love somebody,
I don't know who, better than the men with the guitars did.

Then the sun went down, it got dark, the wind moaned and wept like a lost child for its dead
mother, and I could 'a' got up then and there and preached a better sermon than any I ever
listened to. There wasn't a thing in the world left to live for, not a blame thing, and yet
I didn't want the music to stop one bit. It was happier to be miserable than to be happy without
being miserable. I couldn't understand it. I hung my head and pulled out my handkerchief, and
blowed my nose loud to keep me from cryin'. My eyes is weak anyway; I didn't want anybody to
be a-gazin' at me a-sniv'lin', and it's nobody's business what I do with my nose. It's mine.
But some several glared at me mad as blazes. Then, all of a sudden, old Rubin changed his tune.
He ripped out and he rared, he tipped and he tared, he pranced and he charged like the grand
entry at a circus. 'Peared to me that all the gas in the house was turned on at once, things
got so bright, and I hilt up my head, ready to look any man in the face, and not afraid of
nothin'. It was a circus and a brass band and a big ball all goin' on at the same time. He
lit into them keys like a thousand of brick; he give 'em no rest day or night; he set every
livin' joint in me a-goin', and, not bein' able to stand it no longer, I jumped spang onto
my seat, and jest hollered,--

"Go it, my Rube!"

Every blame man, woman and child in the house riz on me, and shouted, "Put him out! put him out!"

"Put your great-grandmother's grizzly gray greenish cat into the middle of next month!" I says.
"Tech me if you dare! I paid my money, and you jest come anigh me!"

With that some several policemen run up, and I had to simmer down. But I would 'a' fit any
fool that laid hands on me, for I was bound to hear Ruby out or die.

He had changed his tune again. He hop-light ladies and tip-toed fine from end to end of the
key-board. He played soft and low and solemn. I heard the church bells over the hills. The
candles of heaven was lit, one by one; I saw the stars rise. The great organ of eternity began
to play from the world's end to the world's end, and all the angels went to prayers.... Then
the music changed to water, full of feeling that couldn't be thought, and began to drop--drip,
drop--drip, drop, clear and sweet, like tears of joy falling into a lake of glory. It was sweeter
than that. It was as sweet as a sweet-heart sweetened with white sugar mixed with powdered
silver and seed-diamonds. It was too sweet. I tell you the audience cheered. Rubin he kinder
bowed, like he wanted to say, "Much obleeged, but I'd rather you wouldn't interrup' me."

He stopped a moment or two to catch breath. Then he got mad. He run his fingers through his
hair, he shoved up his sleeve, he opened his coat-tails a leetle further, he drug up his stool,
he leaned over, and, sir, he just went for that old pianner. He slapped her face, he boxed
her jaws, he pulled her nose, he pinched her ears, and he scratched her cheeks, until she fairly
yelled. He knocked her down and he stamped on her shameful. She bellowed like a bull, she bleated
like a calf, she howled like a hound, she squealed like a pig, she shrieked like a rat, and
then he wouldn't let her up. He run a quarter stretch down the low grounds of the base, till
he got clean in the bowels of the earth, and you heard thunder galloping after thunder through
the hollows and caves of perdition; and then he fox-chased his right hand with his left till
he got 'way out of the treble into the clouds, whar the notes was finer than the p'ints of
cambric needles, and you couldn't hear nothin' but the shadders of 'em. And then he wouldn't
let the old pianner go. He for'ard two'd, he crost over first gentleman, he chassade right
and left, back to your places, he all hands'd aroun', ladies to the right, promenade all, in
and out, here and there, back and forth, up and down, perpetual motion, double twisted and
turned and tacked and tangled into forty-eleven thousand double bow-knots.

By jinks! it was a mixtery. And then he wouldn't let the old pianner go. He fetcht up his right
wing, he fetcht up his left wing, he fetcht up his center, he fetcht up his reserves. He fired
by file, he fired by platoons, by company, by regiments, and by brigades. He opened his cannon,--siege-guns
down thar, Napoleons here, twelve-pounders yonder,--big guns, little guns, middle-sized guns,
round shot, shells, shrapnels, grape, canister, mortar, mines and magazines, every livin' battery
and bomb a-goin' at the same time. The house trembled, the lights danced, the walls shuk, the
floor come up, the ceilin' come down, the sky split, the ground rocked--heavens and earth,
creation, sweet potatoes, Moses, ninepences, glory, tenpenny nails, Samson in a 'simmon-tree,
Tump Tompson in a tumbler-cart, roodle-oodle-oodle-oodle- ruddle-uddle-uddle-uddle--raddle-addle-eedle--riddle-iddle-iddle-
iddle--reedle-eedle-eedle-eedle--p-r-r-r-rlank! Bang!!! lang! perlang! p-r-r-r-r-r!! Bang!!!!

With that bang! he lifted himself bodily into the a'r, and he come down with his knees, his
ten fingers, his ten toes, his elbows, and his nose, striking every single solitary key on
the pianner at the same time. The thing busted and went off into seventeen hundred and fifty-seven
thousand five hundred and forty-two hemi-demi-semi-quivers, and I know'd no mo'.

When I come to, I were under ground about twenty foot, in a place they call Oyster Bay, treatin'
a Yankee that I never laid eyes on before and never expect to ag'in. Day was breakin' by the
time I got to the St. Nicholas Hotel, and I pledge you my word I did not know my name. The
man asked me the number of my room, and I told him, "Hot music on the half-shell for two!"

PLAGIARISM

BY JOHN B. TABB

    If Poe from Pike The Raven stole,
       As his accusers say,
    Then to embody Adam's soul,
      God plagiarised the clay.

GO LIGHTLY, GAL

(THE CAKE-WALK)

BY ANNE VIRGINIA CULBERTSON

    Sweetes' li'l honey in all dis lan',
    Come erlong yer an' gimme yo' han',
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!
    Cawn all shucked an' de barn flo' clear,
    Come erlong, come erlong, come erlong, my dear,
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!

    Fiddles dey callin' us high an' fine,
    "Time fer de darnsin', come an' jine,"
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!
    My pooty li'l honey, but you is sweet!
    An' hit's clap yo' han's an' shake yo' feet,
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!

    Hit's cut yo' capers all down de line,
    Den mek yo' manners an' tiptoe fine,
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!
    Oh, hit's whu'll yo' pardners roun' an' roun',
    Twel you hyst dey feet clean off de groun',
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!

    Oh, hit's tu'n an' twis' all roun' de flo',
    Fling out yo' feet behime, befo',
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!
    Gre't Lan' o' Goshen! but you is spry!
    Kain't none er de urr gals spring so high,
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!

    Oh, roll yo' eyes an' wag yo' haid
    An' shake yo' bones twel you nigh most daid,
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!
    Doan' talk ter me 'bout gittin' yo' bref,
    Gwine darnse dis out ef hit cause my def!
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!

    Um-humph! done darnse all de urr folks down!
    Skip erlong, honey, jes' one mo' roun'!
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!
    Fiddles done played twel de strings all break!
    Come erlong, honey, jes' one mo' shake,
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!

    Now teck my arm an' perawd all roun',
    So dey see whar de sho'-nuff darnsers foun',
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!
    Den gimme yo' han' an' we quit dish yer,
    Come erlong, come erlong, come erlong, my dear,
            Go lightly, gal, go lightly!

THE GOLFER'S RUBAIYAT[1]

BY H.W. BOYNTON

    Wake! for the sun has driven in equal flight
    The stars before him from the Tee of Night,
      And holed them every one without a miss,
    Swinging at ease his gold-shod Shaft of Light.

    Now the fresh Year, reviving old Desires,
    The thoughtful Soul to Solitude retires,
      Pores on this Club and That with anxious eye,
    And dreams of Rounds beyond the Rounds of Liars.

    Come, choose your ball, and in the Fire of Spring
    Your Red Coat, and your wooden Putter fling;
      The Club of Time has but a little while
    To waggle, and the Club is on the swing.

    Whether at Musselburgh or Shinnecock,
    In motley Hose or humbler motley Sock,
      The Cup of Life is ebbing Drop by Drop,
    Whether the Cup be filled with Scotch or Bock.

    A Bag of Clubs, a Silver-Town or two,
    A Flask of Scotch, a Pipe of Shag--and Thou
      Beside me caddying in the Wilderness--
    Ah, Wilderness were Paradise enow.

    They say the Female and the Duffer strut
    On sacred Greens where Morris used to put;
      Himself a natural Hazard now, alas!
    That nice hand quiet now, that great Eye shut.

    I sometimes think that never springs so green
    The Turf as where some Good Fellow has been,
      And every emerald Stretch the Fair Green shows
    His kindly Tread has known, his sure Play seen.

    Myself when young did eagerly frequent
    Jamie and His, and heard great argument
      Of Grip and Stance and Swing; but evermore
    Found at the Exit but a Dollar spent.

    With them the seed of Wisdom did I sow,
    And with mine own hand sought to make it grow;
      And this was all the Harvest that I reaped:
    "You hold it This Way, and you swing it So."

    The swinging Brassie strikes; and, having struck,
    Moves on: nor all your Wit or future Luck
      Shall lure it back to cancel half a Stroke,
    Nor from the Card a single Seven pluck.

    And that inverted Ball they call the High--
    By which the Duffer thinks to live or die,
      Lift not your hands to IT for help, for it
    As impotently froths as you or I.

    Yon rising Moon that leads us Home again,
    How oft hereafter will she wax and wane;
      How oft hereafter rising wait for us
    At this same Turning--and for One in vain.

    And when, like her, my Golfer, I have been
    And am no more above the pleasant Green,
      And you in your mild Journey pass the Hole
    I made in One--ah! pay my Forfeit then!

[Footnote 1: By permission of Fox, Duffield and Company. From The Golfer's Rubaiyat.

AN EVENING MUSICALE

BY MAY ISABEL FISK

Scene--A conventional, but rather over-decorated, drawing-room. Grand piano drawn conspicuously
to center of floor. Rows of camp-chairs. It is ten minutes before the hour of invitation. The
Hostess, a large woman, is costumed in yellow satin, embroidered in spangles. Her diamonds
are many and of large size. She is seated on the extreme edge of a chair, struggling with a
pair of very long gloves. She looks flurried and anxious. Poor Relative, invited as a "great
treat," sits opposite. Her expression is timid and apprehensive. They are the only occupants
of the room.

HOSTESS--No such thing, Maria. You look all right. Plain black is always very genteel. Nothing
I like so well for evening, myself. Just keep your face to the wall as much as you can, and
the worn places will never show. You can take my ecru lace scarf, if you wish, and that will
cover most of the spots. I don't mean my new scarf--the one I got two years ago. It's a little
torn, but it won't matter--for you. I think you will find it on the top shelf of the store-room
closet on the third floor. If you put a chair on one of the trunks, you can easily reach it.
Just wait a minute, till I get these gloves on; I want you to button them. I do hope I haven't
forgotten anything. Baron von Gosheimer has promised to come. I have told everybody. It would
be terrible if he should disappoint me.

MASCULINE VOICE FROM ABOVE--Sarah, where the devil have you put my shirts? Everything is upside
down in my room, and I can't find them. I pulled every blessed thing out of the chiffonier
and wardrobe, and they're not there!

HOSTESS--Oh, Henry! You must hurry--I'm going to use your room for the gentlemen's dressing-room,
and it's time now for people to come. You must hurry.

HOST (from above, just as front door opens, admitting Baron von Gosheimer and two women guests)--Where
the devil are my shirts?

HOSTESS (unconscious of arrivals)--Under the bed in my room. Hurry!

(HOST, in bath gown and slippers, dashes madly into wife's room, and dives under bed as women
guests enter. Unable to escape, he crawls farther beneath bed. His feet remain visible. Women
guests discover them.)

GUESTS (in chorus)--Burglars! burglars! Help! help!

(Baron von Gosheimer, ascending to the next floor, hears them and hastens to the rescue.)

BARON--Don't be alarmed, ladies. Has either of you a poker? No? That is to be deplored. (Catches
Host by heels and drags him out. Tableau.)

HOSTESS (to Poor Relative, giving an extra tug at her gloves)--There, it's all burst out on
the side! That stupid saleslady said she knew they would be too small. Oh, dear, I'm that upset!
And these Louis Quinze slippers are just murdering me. I wish it were all over.

(Enter Baron von Gosheimer and women guests.)

HOSTESS--Dear baron, how good of you! I was just saying, if you didn't come I should wish my
musicale in Jericho. And, now that you are here, I don't care if any one else comes or not.
(To women guests.) How d'ye do? I must apologize for Mr. Smythe--he's been detained down-town.
He just telephoned me. He'll be in later. Do sit down; it's just as cheap as standing, I always
say, and it does save your feet. You ladies can find seats over in the corner. (Detaining Baron.)
Dear baron--(Enter guests.)

GUEST--So glad you have a clear evening. Now, when we gave our affair, it poured. Of course,
we had a crowd, just the same. People always come to us, whether it rains or not. (Takes a
seat. Guests begin to arrive in numbers.)

HOSTESS--So sweet of you to come!

GUEST--So glad you have a pleasant evening. I am sure to have a bad night whenever I entertain--

HOSTESS--(to another guest)--So delightful of you to come!

GUEST--Such a perfect evening! I'm so glad. I said as we started out, "Now, this time, Mrs.
Smythe can't help but have plenty of people. Whenever I entertain, it's sure to--" (More guests.)

(Telegram arrives, announcing that the prima donna has a sore throat, and will be unable to
come. Time passes.)

MALE GUEST (to another)--Well, I wish to heaven, something would be doing soon. This is the
deadest affair I was ever up against.

OMNIPRESENT JOKER (greeting acquaintance)--Hello, old man!--going to sing to-night?

ACQUAINTANCE--Oh, yes, going to sing a solo.

JOKER--So low you can't hear it? Ha, ha! (Guests near by groan.)

VOICE (overheard)--Madame Cully? My dear, she always tells you that you haven't half enough
material, and makes you get yards more. Besides, she never sends your pieces back, though I have--

FAT OLD LADY (to neighbor)--I never was so warm in my life! I can't imagine why people invite
you, just to make you uncomfortable. Now, when I entertain, I have the windows open for hours
before any one comes.

JOKER (aside)--That's why she always has a frost! Ha, ha!

(HOST enters, showing traces of hasty toilette--face red, and a razor-cut on chin.)

HOST (rubbing his hands, and endeavoring to appear at ease and facetious)--Well, how d'ye do,
everybody! Sorry to be late on such an auspicious--

JOKER (interrupting)--Suspicious! Ha, ha!

HOST--occasion. I hope you are all enjoying yourselves.

CHORUS OF GUESTS--Yes, indeed!

HOSTESS--'Sh, 'sh, 'sh! I have a great disappointment for you all. Here is a telegram from
my best singer, saying she is sick, and can't come. Now, we will have the pleasure of listening
to Miss Jackson. Miss Jackson is a pupil of Madame Parcheesi, of Paris. (Singer whispers to
her.) Oh, I beg your pardon! It's Madame Marcheesi.

DEAF OLD GENTLEMAN (seated by piano, talking to pretty girl)--I'd rather listen to you than
hear this caterwauling. (Old Gentleman is dragged into corner and silenced.)

YOUNG WOMAN (singing)--"Why do I sing? I know not, I know not! I can not help but sing. Oh,
why do I sing?"

(Guests moan softly and demand of one another, Why does she sing?)

WOMAN GUEST (to another)--Isn't that just the way?--their relatives are always dying, and it's
sure to be wash-day or just when you expect company to dinner, and off they go to the funeral--

(Butler appears with trayful of punch-glasses.)

MALE GUEST (to another)--Thank the Lord! here's relief in sight. Let's drown our troubles.

THE OTHER--It's evident you haven't sampled the Smythes' punch before. I tell you it's a crime
to spoil a thirst with this stuff. Well, here's how.

WOMAN GUEST (to neighbor)--I never saw Mrs. Smythe looking quite so hideous and atrociously
vulgar before, did you?

NEIGHBOR--Never! Why did we come?

VOICE (overheard)--The one in the white-lace gown and all those diamonds?

ANOTHER VOICE--Yes. Well, you know it was common talk that before he married her--

HOSTESS--'Sh, 'sh, 'sh! Signor Padrella has offered to play some of his own compositions, but
I thought you would all rather hear something familiar by one of the real composers--Rubens
or Chopin--Chopinhauer, I think--

(Pianist plunges wildly into something.)

VOICE (during a lull in the music)--First, you brown an onion in the pan, then you chop the
cabbage--

GUEST (in the dressing-room, just arriving, to another)--Yes, we are awfully late, too, but
I always say you never can be too late at one of the Smythes' horrors.

THIN YOUNG WOMAN (in limp pink gown and string of huge pearls, who has come to recite)--I'm
awfully nervous, and I do believe I'm getting hoarse. Mama, you didn't forget the lemon juice
and sugar? (Drinks from bottle.) Now, where are my bronchial troches? Don't you think I could
stand just a little more rouge? I think it's a shame I'm not going to have footlights. Remember,
you are not to prompt me, unless I look at you. You will get me all mixed up, if you do. (They
descend.)

HOSTESS (to elocutionist)--Why, I thought you were never coming! I wanted you to fill in while
people were taking their seats. The guests always make so much noise, and the singers hate
it. Now, what did you say you would require--an egg-beater and a turnip, wasn't it? Oh, no!
That's for the young man who is going to do the tricks. I remember. Are you all ready?

ELOCUTIONIST (in a trembling voice)--Ye-es.

HOSTESS--'Sh, 'sh, 'sh!

ELOCUTIONIST--Aux Italiens.

    "At Paris it was, at the opera there,
     And she looked like--"

GUEST (to another)--Thirty cents, old chap! I tell you, there's nothing will knock you out
quicker than--

HOSTESS--'Sh, 'sh, 'sh!

(Young woman finishes, and retires amidst subdued applause. Reappears immediately and gives
"The Maniac.")

HOSTESS--As I have been disappointed in my best talent for this evening, Mr. Briggs has kindly
consented to do some of his parlor-magic tricks.

(Mr. Briggs steps forward, a large, florid young man, wearing a "made" dress-tie, the buckle
of which crawls up the back of his collar.)

BRIGGS--Now, ladies and gentlemen, I shall have to ask you all to move to the other side of
the room. (This is accomplished with muttered uncomplimentary remarks concerning the magician.)

BRIGGS (to Hostess)--I must have the piano pushed to the further end. I must have plenty of
space. (All the men guests are pressed into service, and, with much difficulty the piano is moved.)

BRIGGS--Now, I want four large screens.

HOSTESS (faintly)--But I have only two!

BRIGGS--Well, then, get me a clothes-horse and a couple of sheets.

POOR RELATIVE--You know, Sarah, I used the last two when I made up my bed in the children's
nursery yesterday. I can easily get--

HOSTESS (hastily)--No, Maria, don't trouble. (To guests)--Perhaps, some of you gentlemen wouldn't
mind lending us your overcoats to cover the clothes-horse?

CHORUS (with great lack of enthusiasm)--Of course! Delighted! (They go for coats.)

HOSTESS (to Poor Relative)--Maria, you get the clothes-horse. I think it's in the laundry,
or--Oh, I think it's in the cellar. Well, you look till you find it. (To Briggs)--I got as
many of the things you asked for as I could remember. Will you read the list over?

BRIGGS--Turnip and egg-beater--

HOSTESS--Yes.

BRIGGS--Egg, large clock, jar of gold-fish, rabbit and empty barrel.

HOSTESS--I have the egg.

BRIGGS (much annoyed)--I particularly wanted the gold-fish, the clock and the barrel.

(Guests grow restless.)

Hostess--Couldn't you do a trick while we are waiting--one with the egg-beater and turnip?

BRIGGS--No; I don't know one.

HOSTESS--Couldn't you make up one?

BRIGGS (icily)--Certainly not.

(Gloom descends over the company, until the Poor Relative arrives, staggering under the clothes-horse.)

CHORUS OF MEN GUESTS--Let me help you!

(Improvised screen is finally arranged. Briggs performs "parlor magic" for an hour. Guests,
fidget, yawn and commence to drop away, one by one.)

GUEST (to Hostess)--Really, we must tear ourselves away. Such a delightful evening!--not a
dull moment. And your punch--heavenly! Do ask us again. Good night.

HOSTESS--Thank you so much! So good of you to come.

ANOTHER GUEST--Yes, we must go. I've had a perfectly dear time.

HOSTESS--So sorry you must go. So good of you to come. Good night.

IN THE DRESSING-ROOM

CHORUS OF GUESTS--Wasn't it awful?--Such low people!--Why did we ever come--Parvenue!

ELOCUTIONIST--I was all right, wasn't I, mama? You noticed they never clapped a bit until I'd
walked the whole length of the room to my chair. It just showed how wrought up they were. You
nearly mixed me up, though, prompting me in the wrong place; I--

HOSTESS (throwing herself on sofa as door closes on last guest)--Well, I'm completely done
up! (To Poor Relative)--Maria, run up to my room, and get my red worsted bed-slippers. I can't
stand these satin tortures a minute longer. Entertaining is an awful strain. It's so hard trying
not to say the wrong thing at the right place. But, then, it certainly went off beautifully.
I could tell every one had such a good time!

COMIN' THU

BY ANNE VIRGINIA CULBERTSON

    Yer's a sinner comin' thu,
    Crowd roun', bre'ren, sisters, too,
    Sing wid all yo' might an' main,
    He'p de sinner out er pain,
        He's comin', comin' thu.

    He bin "seekin'" dis long time,
    He'p him cas' de foe behime,
    Clap yo' han's an' sing an' shout,
    He'p him cas' de debil out,
        Le's wrassel him right thu.

    Tu'rr side de Gate er Sin,
    Year him kickin' ter git in,
    Putt up prayers wid might an' main,
    Dat he doesn' kick in vain,
        Y'all kin pray him thu.

    Heart a-bus'in' fer de right,
    Debil hol'in' to him tight,
    Year him swish dat forkéd tail,
    See de sinner-man turn pale,
        Come on an' he'p him thu.

    Sinner hangin' 'bove de pit,
    By a hya'r strotch over hit,
    Debil hol' one eend an' shake,
    Y'all kin see de sinner quake,
        Quick, he'p dis man come thu.

    Seize de ropes, now, ev'y man,
    He'p de gospel ship ter lan',
    One long pull an' one gre't shout,
    Hallelu! We got him out,
        De sinner done come thu! Not she.

"Oh, Lor', missis, no; the towels was all a-missin', so I just did it. I laid it out to wash
that ar; that's why I put it thar."

THE STRIKE AT HINMAN'S

BY ROBERT J. BURDETTE

Away back in the fifties, "Hinman's" was not only the best school in Peoria, but it was the
greatest school in the world. I sincerely thought so then, and as I was a very lively part
of it, I should know. Mr. Hinman was the Faculty, and he was sufficiently numerous to demonstrate
cube root with one hand and maintain discipline with the other. Dear old man; boys and girls
with grandchildren love him to-day, and think of him among their blessings. He was superintendent
of public instruction, board of education, school trustee, county superintendent, principal
of the high school and janitor. He had a pleasant smile, a genius for mathematics, and a West
Point idea of obedience and discipline. He carried upon his person a grip that would make the
imported malady which mocks that name in these degenerate days, call itself Slack, in very
terror at having assumed the wrong title.

We used to have "General Exercises" on Friday afternoon. The most exciting feature of this
weekly frivolity consisted of a free-for-all exercise in mental arithmetic. Mr. Hinman gave
out lists of numbers, beginning with easy ones and speaking slowly; each succeeding list he
dictated more rapidly and with ever-increasing complications of addition, subtraction, multiplication
and division, until at last he was giving them out faster than he could talk. One by one the
pupils dropped out of the race with despairing faces, but always at the closing peremptory:

"Answer?"

