I look into the jumbled stores of the middle distance of memory, and Beckenham seems to me
a quite transitory phase. But really they were there several years; through nearly all my married
life, in fact, and far longer than the year and odd months we lived together at Wimblehurst.
But the Wimblehurst time with them is fuller in my memory by far then the Beckenham period.
There comes back to me with a quite considerable amount of detail the effect of that garden
party of my aunt's and of a little social misbehaviour of which I was guilty on that occasion.
It's like a scrap from another life. It's all set in what is for me a kind of cutaneous feeling,
the feeling of rather ill-cut city clothes, frock coat and grey trousers, and of a high collar
and tie worn in sunshine among flowers. I have still a quite vivid memory of the little trapezoidal
lawn, of the gathering, and particularly of the hats and feathers of the gathering, of the
parlour-maid and the blue tea-cups, and of the magnificent presence of Mrs. Hogberry and of
her clear, resonant voice. It was a voice that would have gone with a garden party on a larger
scale; it went into adjacent premises; it included the gardener who was far up the vegetable
patch and technically out of play. The only other men were my aunt's doctor, two of the clergy,
amiable contrasted men, and Mrs. Hogberry's imperfectly grown-up son, a youth just bursting
into collar. The rest were women, except for a young girl or so in a state of speechless good
behaviour. Marion also was there.

Marion and I had arrived a little estranged, and I remember her as a silent presence, a shadow
across all that sunlit emptiness of intercourse. We had embittered each other with one of those
miserable little disputes that seemed so unavoidable between us. She had, with the help of
Smithie, dressed rather elaborately for the occasion, and when she saw me prepared to accompany
her in, I think it was a grey suit, she protested that silk hat and frock coat were imperative.
I was recalcitrant, she quoted an illustrated paper showing a garden party with the King present,
and finally I capitulated--but after my evil habit, resentfully.... Eh, dear! those old quarrels,
how pitiful they were, how trivial! And how sorrowful they are to recall! I think they grow
more sorrowful as I grow older, and all the small passionate reasons for our mutual anger fade
and fade out of memory.

The impression that Beckenham company has left on my mind is one of a modest unreality; they
were all maintaining a front of unspecified social pretension, and evading the display of the
economic facts of the case. Most of the husbands were "in business" off stage, it would have
been outrageous to ask what the business was--and the wives were giving their energies to produce,
with the assistance of novels and the illustrated magazines, a moralised version of the afternoon
life of the aristocratic class. They hadn't the intellectual or moral enterprise of the upper-class
woman, they had no political interests, they had no views about anything, and consequently
they were, I remember, extremely difficult to talk to. They all sat about in the summer-house
and in garden-chairs, and were very hatty and ruffley and sunshady. Three ladies and the curate
played croquet with a general immense gravity, broken by occasional loud cries of feigned distress
from the curate. "Oh! Whacking me about again! Augh!"

The dominant social fact that afternoon was Mrs. Hogberry; she took up a certain position commanding
the croquet and went on, as my aunt said to me in an incidental aside, "like an old Roundabout."
She talked of the way in which Beckenham society was getting mixed, and turned on to a touching
letter she had recently received from her former nurse at Little Gossdean. Followed a loud
account of Little Gossdean and how much she and her eight sisters had been looked up to there.
"My poor mother was quite a little Queen there," she said. "And such NICE Common people! People
say the country labourers are getting disrespectful nowadays. It isn't so--not if they're properly
treated. Here of course in Beckenham it's different. I won't call the people we get here a
Poor--they're certainly not a proper Poor. They're Masses. I always tell Mr. Bugshoot they're
Masses, and ought to be treated as such."...

Dim memories of Mrs. Mackridge floated through my mind as I listened to her....

I was whirled on this roundabout for a bit, and then had the fortune to fall off into a tete-a-tete
with a lady whom my aunt introduced as Mrs. Mumble--but then she introduced everybody to me
as Mumble that afternoon, either by way of humour or necessity.

That must have been one of my earliest essays in the art of polite conversation, and I remember
that I began by criticising the local railway service, and that at the third sentence or thereabouts
Mrs. Mumble said in a distinctly bright and encouraging way that she feared I was a very "frivolous"
person.

I wonder now what it was I said that was "frivolous."

I don't know what happened to end that conversation, or if it had an end. I remember talking
to one of the clergy for a time rather awkwardly, and being given a sort of topographical history
of Beckenham, which he assured me time after time was "Quite an old place. Quite an old place."
As though I had treated it as new and he meant to be very patient but very convincing. Then
we hung up in a distinct pause, and my aunt rescued me. "George," she said in a confidential
undertone, "keep the pot a-boiling." And then audibly, "I say, will you both old trot about
with tea a bit?"

"Only too delighted to TROT for you, Mrs. Ponderevo," said the clergyman, becoming fearfully
expert and in his elements; "only too delighted."

I found we were near a rustic table, and that the housemaid was behind us in a suitable position
to catch us on the rebound with the tea things.

"Trot!" repeated the clergyman to me, much amused; "excellent expression!" And I just saved
him from the tray as he turned about.

We handed tea for a while....

"Give 'em cakes," said my aunt, flushed, but well in hand. "Helps 'em to talk, George. Always
talk best after a little nourishment. Like throwing a bit of turf down an old geyser."

She surveyed the gathering with a predominant blue eye and helped herself to tea.

"They keep on going stiff," she said in an undertone.... "I've done my best."

"It's been a huge success," I said encouragingly.

"That boy has had his legs crossed in that position and hasn't spoken for ten minutes. Stiffer
and stiffer. Brittle. He's beginning a dry cough--always a bad sign, George.... Walk 'em about,
shall I?--rub their noses with snow?"

Happily she didn't. I got myself involved with the gentlewoman from next door, a pensive, languid-looking
little woman with a low voice, and fell talking; our topic, Cats and Dogs, and which it was
we liked best.

"I always feel," said the pensive little woman, "that there's something about a dog--A cat
hasn't got it."

"Yes," I found myself admitting with great enthusiasm, "there is something. And yet again--"

"Oh! I know there's something about a cat, too. But it isn't the same."

"Not quite the same," I admitted; "but still it's something."

"Ah! But such a different something!"

"More sinuous."

"Much more."

"Ever so much more."

"It makes all the difference, don't you think?"

"Yes," I said, "ALL."

She glanced at me gravely and sighed a long, deeply felt "Yes." A long pause.

The thing seemed to me to amount to a stale-mate. Fear came into my heart and much perplexity.

"The--er--Roses," I said. I felt like a drowning man. "Those roses--don't you think they are--very
beautiful flowers?"

"Aren't they!" she agreed gently. "There seems to be something in roses--something--I don't
know how to express it."

"Something," I said helpfully.

"Yes," she said, "something. Isn't there?"

"So few people see it," I said; "more's the pity!"

She sighed and said again very softly, "Yes."...

There was another long pause. I looked at her and she was thinking dreamily. The drowning sensation
returned, the fear and enfeeblement. I perceived by a sort of inspiration that her tea-cup
was empty.

"Let me take your cup," I said abruptly, and, that secured, made for the table by the summer-house.
I had no intention then of deserting my aunt. But close at hand the big French window of the
drawing-room yawned inviting and suggestive. I can feel all that temptation now, and particularly
the provocation of my collar. In an instant I was lost. I would--Just for a moment!

I dashed in, put down the cup on the keys of the grand piano and fled upstairs, softly, swiftly,
three steps at a time, to the sanctuary of my uncle's study, his snuggery. I arrived there
breathless, convinced there was no return for me. I was very glad and ashamed of myself, and
desperate. By means of a penknife I contrived to break open his cabinet of cigars, drew a chair
to the window, took off my coat, collar and tie, and remained smoking guiltily and rebelliously,
and peeping through the blind at the assembly on the lawn until it was altogether gone....

The clergymen, I thought, were wonderful.

III

A few such pictures of those early days at Beckenham stand out, and then I find myself among
the Chiselhurst memories. The Chiselhurst mansion had "grounds" rather than a mere garden,
and there was a gardener's cottage and a little lodge at the gate. The ascendant movement was
always far more in evidence there than at Beckenham. The velocity was increasing.

One night picks itself out as typical, as, in its way, marking an epoch. I was there, I think,
about some advertisement stuff, on some sort of business anyhow, and my uncle and aunt had
come back in a fly from a dinner at the Runcorns. (Even there he was nibbling at Runcorn with
the idea of our great Amalgamation budding in his mind.) I got down there, I suppose, about
eleven. I found the two of them sitting in the study, my aunt on a chair-arm with a whimsical
pensiveness on her face, regarding my uncle, and he, much extended and very rotund, in the
low arm-chair drawn up to the fender.

"Look here, George," said my uncle, after my first greetings. "I just been saying: We aren't
Oh Fay!"

"Eh?"

"Not Oh Fay! Socially!"

"Old FLY, he means, George--French!"

"Oh! Didn't think of French. One never knows where to have him. What's gone wrong to-night?"

"I been thinking. It isn't any particular thing. I ate too much of that fishy stuff at first,
like salt frog spawn, and was a bit confused by olives; and--well, I didn't know which wine
was which. Had to say THAT each time. It puts your talk all wrong. And she wasn't in evening
dress, not like the others. We can't go on in that style, George--not a proper ad."

"I'm not sure you were right," I said, "in having a fly."

"We got to do it all better," said my uncle, "we got to do it in Style. Smart business, smart
men. She tries to pass it off as humorous"--my aunt pulled a grimace--"it isn't humorous! See!
We're on the up-grade now, fair and square. We're going to be big. We aren't going to be laughed
at as Poovenoos, see!"

"Nobody laughed at you," said my aunt. "Old Bladder!"

"Nobody isn't going to laugh at me," said my uncle, glancing at his contours and suddenly sitting
up.

My aunt raised her eyebrows slightly, swung her foot, and said nothing.

"We aren't keeping pace with our own progress, George. We got to. We're bumping against new
people, and they set up to be gentlefolks--etiquette dinners and all the rest of it. They give
themselves airs and expect us to be fish-out-of-water. We aren't going to be. They think we've
no Style. Well, we give them Style for our advertisements, and we're going to give 'em Style
all through.... You needn't be born to it to dance well on the wires of the Bond Street tradesmen.
See?"

I handed him the cigar-box.

"Runcorn hadn't cigars like these," he said, truncating one lovingly. "We beat him at cigars.
We'll beat him all round."

My aunt and I regarded him, full of apprehensions.

"I got idees," he said darkly to the cigar, deepening our dread.

He pocketed his cigar-cutter and spoke again.

"We got to learn all the rotten little game first. See, F'rinstance, we got to get samples
of all the blessed wines there are--and learn 'em up. Stern, Smoor, Burgundy, all of 'em! She
took Stern to-night--and when she tasted it first--you pulled a face, Susan, you did. I saw
you. It surprised you. You bunched your nose. We got to get used to wine and not do that. We
got to get used to wearing evening dress--YOU, Susan, too."

"Always have had a tendency to stick out of my clothes," said my aunt. "However--Who cares?"
She shrugged her shoulders.

I had never seen my uncle so immensely serious.

"Got to get the hang of etiquette," he went on to the fire. "Horses even. Practise everything.
Dine every night in evening dress.... Get a brougham or something. Learn up golf and tennis
and things. Country gentleman. Oh Fay. It isn't only freedom from Goochery."

"Eh?" I said.

"Oh!--Gawshery, if you like!"

"French, George," said my aunt. "But I'M not ol' Gooch. I made that face for fun."

"It isn't only freedom from Gawshery. We got to have Style. See! Style! Just all right and
one better. That's what I call Style. We can do it, and we will."

He mumbled his cigar and smoked for a space, leaning forward and looking into the fire.

"What is it," he asked, "after all? What is it? Tips about eating; tips about drinking. Clothes.
How to hold yourself, and not say jes' the few little things they know for certain are wrong--jes'
the shibboleth things."

He was silent again, and the cigar crept up from the horizontal towards the zenith as the confidence
of his mouth increased.

"Learn the whole bag of tricks in six months." he said, becoming more cheerful. "Ah, Susan?
Beat it out! George, you in particular ought to get hold of it. Ought to get into a good club,
and all that."

"Always ready to learn!" I said. "Ever since you gave me the chance of Latin. So far we don't
seem to have hit upon any Latin-speaking stratum in the population."

"We've come to French," said my aunt, "anyhow."

"It's a very useful language," said my uncle. "Put a point on things. Zzzz. As for accent,
no Englishman has an accent. No Englishman pronounces French properly. Don't you tell ME. It's
a Bluff.--It's all a Bluff. Life's a Bluff--practically. That's why it's so important, Susan,
for us to attend to Style. Le Steel Say Lum. The Style it's the man. Whad you laughing at,
Susan? George, you're not smoking. These cigars are good for the mind.... What do YOU think
of it all? We got to adapt ourselves. We have--so far.... Not going to be beat by these silly
things."

IV

"What do you think of it, George?" he insisted.

What I said I thought of it I don't now recall. Only I have very distinctly the impression
of meeting for a moment my aunt's impenetrable eye. And anyhow he started in with his accustomed
energy to rape the mysteries of the Costly Life, and become the calmest of its lords. On the
whole, I think he did it--thoroughly. I have crowded memories, a little difficult to disentangle,
of his experimental stages, his experimental proceedings. It's hard at times to say which memory
comes in front of which. I recall him as presenting on the whole a series of small surprises,
as being again and again, unexpectedly, a little more self-confident, a little more polished,
a little richer and finer, a little more aware of the positions and values of things and men.

There was a time--it must have been very early--when I saw him deeply impressed by the splendours
of the dining-room of the National Liberal Club. Heaven knows who our host was or what that
particular little "feed" was about now!--all that sticks is the impression of our straggling
entry, a string of six or seven guests, and my uncle looking about him at the numerous bright
red-shaded tables, at the exotics in great Majolica jars, at the shining ceramic columns and
pilasters, at the impressive portraits of Liberal statesmen and heroes, and all that contributes
to the ensemble of that palatial spectacle. He was betrayed into a whisper to me, "This is
all Right, George!" he said. That artless comment seems almost incredible as I set it down;
there came a time so speedily when not even the clubs of New York could have overawed my uncle,
and when he could walk through the bowing magnificence of the Royal Grand Hotel to his chosen
table in that aggressively exquisite gallery upon the river, with all the easy calm of one
of earth's legitimate kings.

The two of them learnt the new game rapidly and well; they experimented abroad, they experimented
at home. At Chiselhurst, with the aid of a new, very costly, but highly instructive cook, they
tried over everything they heard of that roused their curiosity and had any reputation for
difficulty, from asparagus to plover's eggs. They afterwards got a gardener who could wait
at table--and he brought the soil home to one. Then there came a butler.

I remember my aunt's first dinner-gown very brightly, and how she stood before the fire in
the drawing-room confessing once unsuspected pretty arms with all the courage she possessed,
and looking over her shoulder at herself in a mirror.

"A ham," she remarked reflectively, "must feel like this. Just a necklace."...

I attempted, I think, some commonplace compliment.

My uncle appeared at the door in a white waistcoat and with his hands in his trouser pockets;
he halted and surveyed her critically.

"Couldn't tell you from a duchess, Susan," he remarked. "I'd like to have you painted, standin'
at the fire like that. Sargent! You look--spirited, somehow. Lord!--I wish some of those damned
tradesmen at Wimblehurst could see you."...

