In the further course of the journey, Stas told about his journey to Fashoda, about the death
of old Dinah, of their start from Fashoda to uninhabited regions, and their search for Smain
in them. When he reached that part where he killed the lion and afterwards Gebhr, Chamis, and
the two Bedouins, the captain interrupted him with only two words: "All right!" after which
he again squeezed his right hand, and with Clary listened with increasing interest about the
taming of the King, about settling in Cracow, about Nell's fever, of finding Linde, and the
kites which the children sent up from Karamojo Mountains. The doctor who, with each day, became
more and more deeply attached to little Nell, was impressed so much by everything which threatened
her most, that from time to time he had to strengthen himself with a few swallows of brandy,
and when Stas began to narrate how she almost became the prey of the dreadful "wobo" or "abasanto,"
he caught the little maid in his arms as if in fear that some new beast of prey was threatening
her life.

And what he and the captain thought of Stas was best evidenced by two despatches, which within
two weeks after their arrival at the foot-hills of Kilima-Njaro they expressly sent to the
captain's deputy in Mombasa with instructions that the latter should transmit them to the fathers.
The first one, edited carefully, for fear that it should create too astounding a sensation,
and forwarded to Port Said, contained the following words:

"Thanks to boy, favorable news about children. Come to Mombasa."

The second, more explicit, addressed to Aden, was of this purport:

"Children are with us. Well. Boy a hero."

On the cool heights at the foot of Kilima-Njaro they stopped fifteen days, as Doctor Clary
insisted that this was imperative for Nell's health, and even for Stas'. The children with
their whole souls admired this heaven-kissing mountain, which possesses all the climates of
the world. Its two peaks, Kibo and Kima-Wenze, during daytime were most frequently hidden in
thick fogs. But when in fair nights the fogs suddenly dispersed and from the twilight the eternal
snows on Kima-Wenze blushed with a rosy luster at a time when the whole world was plunged in
darkness, the mountain appeared like a bright altar of God, and the hands of both children
at this sight involuntarily were folded in prayer.

For Stas the days of worry, uneasiness and exertion had passed. They had yet before them a
month of travel to Mombasa and the road led through the charming but unhealthy forest of Taveta;
but how much easier it was to travel now, with a numerous caravan well provided with everything
and over familiar trails, than formerly to stray in the wilderness with only Kali and Mea.
Besides, Captain Glenn was now responsible for the journey. Stas rested and hunted. Aside from
this, having found among the implements of the caravan a chisel and hammers, he was in the
cooler hours engaged in chiseling upon a great gneiss rock the inscription "Jeszcze Polska
nie zginela,"* [* "Poland is not yet lost." The title of the most popular Polish national march.--Translator's
note.] for he wished to leave some trace of their sojourn in that region.

The Englishmen, to whom he translated the inscription, were astonished that it never occurred
to the boy to perpetuate his own name on that rock. But he preferred to carve the words he
had chosen.

He did not cease, however, to take care of Nell and awoke in her such unbounded confidence
that when Clary asked her whether she did not fear the storms on the Red Sea, the little maid
raised her beautiful, calm eyes and only answered, "Stas will know what to do." Captain Glenn
claimed that truer evidence of what Stas was to the little one and greater praise for the boy
no one would be able to pronounce.

