The complaints of all are alike; they lament that they make attempts to resist their passion,
but find it not to be resisted; that they are obliged at last to yield themselves entirely
to it, and to feel their whole thoughts, as it were, swallowed up by it.

Such being the way in which Shakspeare represents Helena, and such the sentiments which he
puts into her mouth, it seems evident that the interpretation of captious in the sense of absorbent
is better adapted to the passage than the explanation of it in the sense of fallacious.

    "I know I love in vain, and strive against hope; yet into this
    insatiable and unretaining sieve I still pour in the waters of my
    love, and fail not to lose still."

I said that the sense of fallacious seemed to be too refined and recondite. To believe that
Shakspeare borrowed his captious in this sense, from the Latin captiosus, we must suppose that
he was well acquainted with the exact sense of the Latin word; a supposition which, in regard
to a man who had small Latin, we can scarcely be justified in entertaining. This interpretation
is, therefore, too recondite: and to imagine Helena as applying the word to Bertram as being
"incapable of receiving her love," and "truly captious" (or deceitful and ensnaring) "in that
respect," is surely to indulge in too much refinement of exposition.

That Shakspeare had in his mind, as MR. SINGER {66} suggests, the punishment of the Danaides,
is extremely probable; but this only makes the explanation of captious in the sense of absorbent
more applicable to the passage, with which that of Seneca, quoted above, may be aptly compared.

I am sorry that Johnson was so unfortunate as to propose carious as an emendation; but even
in doing this, he had, according to my notion of the lines, the right sense in view, viz.,
that of letting through or swallowing up, like a rotten tub or a quicksand.

I hope that MR. SINGER will take these remarks in good part, as being offered, not from a wish
to oppose his opinion, but from a conviction that the interpretation now given is right, and
from a desire that to every word in Shakspeare should be assigned its true signification.

J.S.W.

Stockwell.

       *       *       *       *       *

SWORD OF WILLIAM THE CONQUEROR.

(Vol. iii., p. 24.)

There can be little doubt that the sword respecting which P. inquires is in the armoury at
Goodrich Court. It was presented by Lord Viscount Gage to the late Sir Samuel Meyrick, and
exhibited by Dr. Meyrick to the Society of Antiquaries, Nov. 23. 1826. The Doctor's letter
is to be found in the Appendix to the Archæologia of that date, with an engraving of the sword.
He states that the arms on the pommel are those of Battle Abbey, that its date is about A.D.
1430, and that it was the symbol of the criminal jurisdiction of the abbot. At the dissolution
of the abbey it fell into the hands of Sir John Gage, who was one of the commissioners for
taking the surrender of religious houses.

Its entire length is 3 feet 5 inches, and the breadth of the blade at the guard 2 inches. The
Doctor considers it to be "the oldest perfect sword in England." The arms are a cross, with
a crown in the first and last quarters, and a sword in the second and third. There are also
the letters T.L., the initials of the Abbot, Thomas de Lodelow, who held that office from 1417
to 1437. This fixes its date in the reign of Henry V., though the fact of the first William
having been the founder of Battle Abbey has given colour to the tradition of its having been
his property.

W.J. BERNHARD SMITH.

Temple.

I much doubt the fact of the Conqueror's sword ever having been in the possession of the monks
of Battle. Nor am I aware of any writer contemporary with the dissolution of that famous abbey
who asserts it. William's royal robe, adorned with precious gems, and a feretory in the form
of an altar, inclosing 300 relics of the saints, were bequeathed by him to the monastery; and
Rufus transmitted them to Battle, where they were duly received on the 8th of the calends of
November, 1088. This information is furnished by the Chronicle of Battel Abbey, which I have
just translated for the press; but not one word is said of the sword.

Though I have always lived within a few miles of Firle Place, the seat of the Gages, and though
I am tolerably well acquainted with the history and traditions of that noble family, I never
heard of the sword mentioned by P. Had that relic really been preserved at Battle till the
time of Henry VIII., it is not improbable that it might have come into Sir John Gage's hands
with the manor of Aleiston, of which he was grantee, while his son-in-law, Sir Anthony Browne,
became possessor of the abbey itself.

Will P. have the goodness to mention the source from which he obtained his statement?

MARK ANTONY LOWER.

Lewes.

In reply to the Query respecting the sword of William the Conqueror (Vol. iii., p. 24.), I
am enabled to inform you that the sword, and also the coronation robes, of William the Conqueror,
were, together with the original "Roll of Battel," kept in the church or chapel of Battel Abbey
until it was dismantled at the Reformation; when they were transferred to the part of the abbey
which remained, and which became the possession and habitation of Sir Anthony Browne, Master
of the Horse to Henry VIII. These precious relics continued in the possession of his descendants,
who were created Lords Mountacute; and when Battel Abbey was sold by them to the ancestor of
the present owner, they conveyed them to Cowdray Park, Sussex, where they remained until they
were destroyed in the lamentable fire which burned down that mansion; and which, by a singular
coincidence, took place on the same day that its owner, the last male representative of the
Brownes Lords Mountacute, was drowned in a rash attempt to descend the falls of Schaffhausen
in a boat.

E.H.Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEANING OF EISELL.

(Vol. ii., pp. 241. 286. 315. 329)

After all that has been written on this subject in "NOTES AND QUERIES," from MR. SINGER'S proposition
of wormwood in No. 46., to MR. HICKSON'S approval of it in No. 51., the question remains substantially
where Steevens and Malone had left it so many years agone.

It is not necessary to discuss whether vinegar, verjuice, or wormwood be the preferable translation
of the Shakspearian word; for before either of them can be received, the advocate is bound
to {67} accommodate his exposition to Shakspeare's sentence, and to "get over the drink up,"
which still stands in his way as it did in that of Malone.

MR. SINGER get over the difficulty by simply saying "to drink up was commonly used for simply
to drink." The example he quotes, however,--

                  "I will drink
  Potions of eysell,"--

is not to his purpose; it is only an equivalent by the addition of the words "potions of" to
give it the same definite character. Omit those words, and the question remains as before.

MR. HICKSON (Vol. ii., p. 329.) has laid down "a canon of criticism for the guidance of commentators
in questions of this nature," so appropriate and valuable, that I cannot except to be bound
by it in these remarks; and if in the sequel his own argument (and his friend's proposition
to boot) shall be blown up by his own petard, it will show the instability of the cause he
has espoused.

    "Master the grammatical construction of the passage in question (if
    from a drama, in it dramatic and scenic application), deducing
    therefrom the general sense, before you attempt to amend or fix the
    meaning of a doubtful word."

Such is the canon; and Mr. HICKSON proceeds to observe, in language that must meet the approval
of every student of the immortal bard, that--

    "Of all writers, none exceed Shakspeare in logical correctness and
    nicety of expression. With a vigour of though and command of language
    attained by no man besides, it is fair to conclude, that he would not
    be guilty of faults of construction such as would disgrace a
    schoolboy's composition."

With this canon so ably laid down, and these remarks so apposite, MR. HICKSON, taking up the
weak point which Mr. SINGER had slurred over, observes--

    "Drink up is synonymous with drink off, drink to the dregs. A
    child taking medicine is urged to 'drink it up.'"

Ay, exactly so; drink up what? the medicine; again a defined quantity; dregs and all,--still
a definite quantity.

MR. HICKSON proceeds:

    "The idea of the passage appears to be that each of the acts should go
    beyond the last preceding in extravagance. The
    notion of drinking up a river would be both unmeaning and out of
    place."

From this argument two conclusions are the natural consequences: first, that from drinking
up wormwood,--a feat "sufficiently wild but not unheard of," to eating a crocodile, is only
a "regular succession of events;" and, secondly, that the "crowning extravagance," to eat a
crocodile, is, after all, neither "unmeaning" nor "out of place;" but, on the contrary, quite
in keeping and in orderly succession to a "drink up" of the bitter infusion.

MR. SINGER (vol. ii., p. 241.) says:

    "Numerous passages of our old dramatic writers show that it was a
    fashion with the gallants of the time to do some extravagant feat as
    proof of their love."

I quite agree with him, if he mean to say that the early dramatists ascribe to their gallants
a fashion which in reality belongs to the age of Du Gueslin and the Troubadours. But Hamlet
himself, in the context of the passage in question, gives the key to his whole purport, when,
after some further extravagance, he says:

                  "Nay, an thoul't mouth,
  I'll rant as well as thou."

That being so, why are we to conclude that each feat of daring is to be a tame possibility,
save only the last--the crowning extravagance? Why not also the one preceding? Why not a feat
equally of mere verbiage and rant? Why not a river?

Adopting MR. HICKSON'S canon of criticism, the grammatical construction of the passage requires
that a definite substantive shall be employed to explain the definite something that is to
be done. Shakspeare says--

  "Woul't drink up esile?"[9]

--a totality in itself, without the expression of quantity to make it definite. If we read
"drink up wormwood," what does it imply? It may be the smallest possible quantity,--an ordinary
dose of bitters; or a pailful, which would perhaps meet the "madness" of Hamlet's daring. Thus
the little monosyllable "up" must be disposed of, or a quantity must be expressed to reconcile
MR. SINGER'S proposition with Mr. HICKSON'S canon and the grammatical sense of Shakspeare's line.

If with Steevens we understand esile to be a river, "the Danish river Oesil, which empties
itself into the Baltic," the Yssel, Wessel, or any other river, real or fictitious, the sense
is clear. Rather let Shakspeare have committed a geographical blunder on the information of
his day, than break {68} Priscian's head by modern interpretation of his words. If we read
"drink up esile" as one should say, "woul't drink up Thames?"--a task as reasonably impossible
as setting it on fire (nevertheless a proverbial expression of a thirsty soul, "He'll drink
the Thames dry"),--the task is quite in keeping with the whole tenor of Hamlet's extravagant rant.

H.K.S.C.

Brixton.

[Footnote 6:  So the folio, according to my copy. It would be advantageous, perhaps, to note
the spelling in the earliest edition of the sonnet whence MR. SINGER quotes "potions of eysell:"
a difference, if there be any, would mark the distinction between Hamlet's river and the Saxon
derivative.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ALTAR LIGHTS, ETC.

(Vol. ii., p. 495. Vol. iii., p. 30.)

The following passage from the works of a deeply pious and learned Caroline Divine, which I
have never before seen quoted, merits, I think, a place in "NOTES AND QUERIES:"--

    "As our Lord himself, so his Gospel also, is called Light, and was
    therefore anciently never read without a burning taper, 'etiam Sole
    rutilante' ('tis Saint Hierome's testimony), though it were lighted in
    the sun.... The careful Church, perceiving that God was so much taken
    with this outward symbol of the Light, could do no less than go on with
    the ceremony. Therefore, the day of Our Lord's nativity was to be
    called [Greek: epiphania], or, appearing of the Light; and so many
    tapers were to be set up the night before, as might give name to the
    vigil, 'Vigilia Luminum'. And the ancients did well to send lights
    one to another, whatsoever some think of the Christmas candle. The
    receiving of this Light in Baptism, though called not usually so, but
    [Greek: phôtismos], Illumination, which further to betoken the rites,
    were to celebrate this sacrament [Greek: haptomenôn pantôn tôn kêrôn],
    etc., with all the tapers lighted, etc., as the order in the
    Euchologus. The Neophytus, also, or new convert, received a Taper
    lighted and delivered by the Mystagogus, which for the space of seven
    days after, he was to hold in his hand at Divine service, sitting in
    the Baptistery.

    "Who perceiveth not that by this right way the Tapers came into the
    Church, mysteriously placed with the Gospel upon the altar as an emblem
    of the Truer Light?...

    "The Funeral Tapers (however thought of by some) are of the same
    harmless import. Their meaning is, to show that the departed souls are
    not quite put out, but having walked here as the Children of the Light,
    are now going to walk before God in the Light of the Living. The sun
    never rose to the ancients, no, not so much as a candle was lighted,
    but of this signification. 'Vincamus' was their word, whensoever the
    Lights came in; [Greek: phôs gar tên Nikên], etc., for Light (saith
    Phavorinus) betokeneth victory. It was to show what trust they put in
    the Light, in whom we are more than conquerors. Our meaning is the same
    when, at the bringing in of a candle, we use to put ourselves in mind
    of the Light of Heaven: which those who list to call superstition do
    but 'darken counsel by words without knowledge.' Job xxxviii.
    2."--Gregorie's Works, 4th ed. p. 110. Lond. 1684.

I believe it is a fact, that in some churches (I hope not many) lamps or candles are placed
on the altar unlighted during divine service. Now I would not quarrel with persons who have
objections to altar lights, &c., but I have no patience with that worse than superstition which
would place unlighted candles on the altar,--if they symbolize any thing, it is damnation,
excommunication, misery, and dark woe.

Coming out of a church one time in which unlighted candles were ostentatiously displayed, I
was forcibly reminded of an hieroglyphical of Quarles--an extinguished taper,--and under it
the words, "Sine lumine inane."

  "How canst thou be useful to the sight?
  What is the taper not endued with light?"

I can hardly refrain from quoting here a beautiful passage from Wordsworth:

  "Our ancestors within the still domain
  Of vast cathedral, or conventual gloom,
  Their vigils kept: when tapers day and night
  On the dim altar burn'd continually,
  In token that the house was evermore
  Watching to God. Religious men were they,
  Nor would their reason, tutor'd to aspire
  Above this transitory world, allow
  That there should pass a moment of the year
  When in their land the Almighty's service ceased."

Any communication of interest of the above subject will much oblige

JARLTZBERG.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Handbell before a Corpse (Vol. ii., p. 478.).--It is usual, at the funeral of any member of
the University of Oxford, for the University marshal and bellman to attend in the character
of mutes. As the procession moves along, the latter rings his bell at about half-minute time.
I have witnessed it also when the deceased has been one of the family of a member of the University,
and when he has been a matriculated person. I have never considered it as anything but a cast
of the bellman's office, to add more solemnity to the occasion.

[Hebrew: b].

L---- Rectory. Somerset.

Sir George Downing (Vol. ii., pp. 464. 497.).--It may assist your querist "ALPHA," to be informed
that among the monuments to the family of Pengelly, in the church of Whitchurch near Tavistock,
in the county of Devon, is one to the memory of Ann, wife of Francis Pengelly, and daughter
of Sir George Downing of East Hatley in the county of Cambridge, who died the 23rd of November,
1702; with the arms of Pengelly impaling Barry of six argent and gules, over all a wyvern or--for
Downing. {69}

Nicholas Downing of Exeter College, vicar of Kingsteignton, in Devon, who died in 1666, and
was buried there, seems to have been of another family, as he bore a very different coat of arms.

A Lieut. Downing was buried in Charles church, Plymouth, in 1799, but the arms on his monument
are not the same as either of the above.

Other than these, I know of none of the name, ancient or recent, in the county, and I shall
be glad to learn on what ground Sir George Downing's family is said to be of most ancient origin
in Devonshire. The name does not appear in Westcote, Pole, Prince, Risdon, or the Heralds'
visitations, and the modern authorities state that the family was from Essex or Norfolk.

J.D.S.

The following memorandum I found accidentally on the margin of a MS. pedigree of Downing, but
I am sorry I cannot recall the source from whence I obtained it. Possibly, however, it may
assist "ALPHA" in his enquiry.

    "Sir George Downing was not the son of Calibut Downing, rector of
    Hackney, but of Emmanuel Downing, a London merchant, who went to New
    England.

J.P.C.

Hulls, the Inventor of Steam-boats (Vol. iii., p. 23.).--Your facetious correspondent, NOCAB,
may gain some information relative to his friend Jonathan Hulls, by going to the British Museum,
and asking for the following book from Mr. Grenville's library.

I will give the full title and Mr. Grenville's note, as it stands in my Catalogue of the library.

    GRENVILLE CATALOGUE (Vol. i. p. 351.)

    "Hulls, Jonathan. London, 1737, folding plate.[10] 8vo. R.[11]

    "This new invented machine is a steam-boat. It entirely puts an end to
    the claims of America to the invention of steam navigation, and
    establishes for this country the honour of that important discovery."

HENRY FOSS.

42. Devonshire Street, 12. Jan. 1851.

[Footnote 7:  Representing, as well as I remember, a perfect steam-boat.]

[Footnote 8:  Meaning Russia binding.]

    [We are also indebted to [Curly-pi] for a reply to NOCAB'S query.]

"The lucky have whole days" (Vol. i., pp. 231. 351.).--I can inform your correspondents P.S.
and H.H., that the passage in question is correctly quoted by the latter at p. 351., and that
it is to be found in Dryden's Tyrannic Love.

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia, West Indies, Nov. 1850

"Clarum et venerabile nomen" (Vol. ii., p. 463.).--Your enquirer as to whence comes "Clarum
et venerabile nomen," &c., will find them in Lucan. Book ix. l. 203.

E.H.

Norwich.

Occult Transposition of Letters (Vol. i., p. 416.; Vol. ii., p. 77.).--Concert of Nature.--Other
examples of these ambiguous verses are given by J. Baptista Porta, de Furtivis Literarum Notis,
one of which has suggested the following lines, as conveying the compliments of the season
to the editor of "NOTES AND QUERIES:" but which, transposed, would become an unseasonable address:--

      "Principio tibi sit facilis, nec tempore parvo
          Vivere permittat te Dea Terpsichore.

  Si autem conversis dictionibus leges, dicent,--

      Terpsichore Dea te permittat vivere parvo
          Tempore, nec facilis sit tibi principio."

I beg leave sincerely, to add, in the words of Ausonius (Ep. xxv.),--

  "Quis prohibet Salve atque Vale brevitate parata
      Scribere? Felicesque notas mandare libellis."

This magnificent epistle inculcating--

  "Nil mutum Natura dedit: non aëris ales
  Quadrupedesve silent," &c.

should be compared with the celebrated stanza of Spenser's Faerie Queen (book ii. canto xii.
st. 71.), beginning with

  "The joyous birds shrouded in cheareful shade;"

and with D'Israeli's animated defence, in his Amenities (vol. ii. p. 395.) of these charming
verses against the [Greek: plêmmelês] and tasteless, the anti-poetical and technical, criticism
of Twining, in his first Dissertation on Poetical and Musical Imitation.

T.J.

Darby and Joan (Vol. iii., p. 38.).--I never heard of the tradition mentioned by H. I can only
suppose that the poet referred to was the first person who introduced the ballad at the manor-house.
Helaugh Nichols, an excellent authority in such matters, whose trade traditions, through the
Boyers, father and son, went back a century and a half, tells us that the ballad was supposed
to have been written by Henry Woodfall, while an apprentice to Darby. The Darbys were printers
time out of mind--one Robert Darby was probably an assistant to Wynkyn de Worde, who certainly
left a legacy to a person of that name. The Woodfalls, too, can be traced up as printers for
nearly two centuries. The Darby, and Joan, his wife, were probably John Darby, printer, in
Bartholomew Close, who was {70} prosecuted in 1684 for printing "Lord Russell's Speech," and
died in 1704. The Woodfall, the printer, is understood to have been Henry Woodfall, afterwards
"Woodfall without Temple Bar," grandfather of Henry Sampson, the printer of Junius' Letters,
and great-great-grandfather of the present excellent printer of the same name.

J.D.Y.

Did Bunyan know Hobbes? (Vol. ii., p. 518.).--Before this question, put by JAS. H. FRISWELL,
can be answered satisfactorily, it should be shown that Bunyan was the author of the Visions
of Hell. In Chambers' Journal for Sept. 7. 1833, n., it is taken for granted that he was, and
the passage alluding to Hobbes is noticed. Your correspondent more justly questions the fact.

A very intelligent friend of mine, who has devoted much research into the supposed origin of
the Pilgrim's Progress, the result of which I hope ere long will appear, tells me that he is
decidedly of opinion that the Visions in question are not the production of the "prince of
dreamers."

He believes the Visions first appeared as Bunyan's in a stereotyped collection or selection
of his works, about 1820-8. Some time after seeing this, my friend was surprised at meeting
with the following little volume, which is now before me: The World to Come. The Glories of
Heaven, and the Terrors of Hell, lively displayed under the Similitude of a Vision. By G.L.,
Sunderland. Printed by R. Wetherald, for H. Creighton, 1771. 12mo. The running title, as far
as p. 95., is, The World to Come; or, Visions of Heaven; and on that page commence the Visions
of Hell, and of the Torments of the Damned: and here it is the author has charitably placed
Hobbes, with whom the colloquy alluded to by your querist occurs.

I shall not occupy your papers with any remarks on the ignorance betrayed by G.L. (whoever
he may be), both of the writings and character of Hobbes; but I shall be glad if I can lead
to the elucidation of what yet remains a literary obscurity, and obtains the name of G.L.

F.R.A.

Mythology of the Stars (Vol. iii., p. 23.).--G.I.C. is recommended to study the ordinary celestial
globe, and to make himself familiar with its use, in order to enhance the interest of the spectacle
of the sidereal heavens as seen by the naked eye. He is also particularly referred to the Celestial
Cycle, by Capt. Smyth, published by Parker and Co., West Strand, in 2 vols. 8vo., price 2l.
2s.; a book full of astronomical and mythological gossip.

G.I.C. will find books on Astrology for sale at Maynard's, No. 8. Earl's Court, Cranbourn Street,
Leicester Square, more readily, perhaps, than any where else in London.

ROBERT SNOW.

6. Chesterfield Street, Mayfair, Jan. 13. 1851.

Dodo Queries (Vol. i., pp. 261, 262.).--MR. STRICKLAND is informed, that in the list of Pingré's
works, as given in Quérard's France Littéraire, there is one with the following title:--

    "Mémoire sur les Découvertes faites dans la Mer du Sud, avant les
    derniers Voyages des Français autour du Monde, lu à l'Académie des
    Sciences, 1766, 1767, 1778, in. 4."

I have not read Pingré's works, but if they contain any mention of Solitaires, it will probably
be found in the Mémoire above referred to.

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia, W.I., Nov. 1850.

Holland Land (Vol. ii., pp. 267. 345.; Vol. iii., p. 30).--In an ancient charter, in my possession,
bearing date 19 Edw. I.: "Gilebertus dictus ate Vorde, de Farlegh," and "James, son of the
late Philip de Essche," quitclaim to James, son of Paulinus de Wynchelse:

    "dimidiam acram terre Flandrensis ... in villa de Ickelesham,"

to have and to hold

    una cum redditu et servitio mihi (sic) pertinentibus de alia dimidia
    acra terre Flandrensis."

The polders of Holland are familiar to all travellers, as lands lying below the level of the
sea, once a mere morass, redeemed from that state, and brought into cultivation by embankments,
&c., &c.

In another charter, somewhat earlier in date and relating to the same district, viz. the neighbourhood
of Winchelsea, Hamo de Crevecour speaks of lands in La more in Ideun, which the monks of Robertsbridge,
with consent of his father Hamo, "a mari incluserunt."

I have always supposed that the "terra Flandrensis" of my charter signified land of the same
description as the Dutch polders; the art of thus redeeming land being probably introduced
from the Low Countries. It is not unlikely that, in that day, lands so brought into cultivation
were designated as "terre Flandrenses," and the term afterwards anglicised into "Holland Land."

L.B.L.

Swearing by Swans (Vol. ii., p. 392.).--Symbology of the swan.

    "Tunc allati sunt in pompatica gloria duo cygni, vel olores, ante
    regem, &c. &c.,--vindicaturus."[12]--Matthæus Westmonasteriensis.

Dr. Lingard states that "the vows of chivalry were not taken on the gospels, but, ridiculous
as it may appear, in the presence of a peacock, or {71} pheasant, or other bird of beautiful
plumage."--History of England, Edward I.

"Nec dissimili ingenio Heraldi antiquiores, musicos et cantatores cygnis[13] donarunt. Ejusque
haud ignarus perspicax noster Franciscanus cum hos a non cantoribus latos observasset, rationem
se ait a rege heraldorum petiisse, eumque duplicem assignasse: hanc quia viri essent pulcherrimi,
illam quia haberent longa colla. Sane candorem animi per cygni effigiem antiquitùs prædicabant,
nec insulsè igitur corporis. Sed gloriæ studium ex eodem hoc symbolo indicari multi asserunt.

"Cum Edwardus primus," &c. &c.--Spelmanni Aspilogia, p. 132.

