PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 156.

June 4, 1919.

CHARIVARIA.

"Germany will sign," says an evening contemporary, "because the Allies hold all the trumps."
They also hold all the Manchurian beef, and are prepared, should the occasion arise, to export
it mercilessly.

       ***

A Carmarthen man has been fined 12s. 6d. for shooting an owl in mistake for a pigeon. Defendant
pleaded that in omitting to sound its hooter the owl was guilty of contributory negligence.

       ***

M. LANDRU, the Parisian Bluebeard (alleged), is said to be very morose and ill. It is felt
that something or other must be worrying him.

       ***

Latest information points to the fact that Jazz has spread to the Hebrides, where two suspected
cases are under observation.

       ***

"Jumpers are to be very fashionable at the seaside this year," says a fashion paper; and yet
lodging-house keepers will keep on assuring us that their bed-linen is scrupulously clean.

       ***

There are still twenty-three wars in progress, declares a Sunday contemporary. The belief is
rapidly gaining ground that several of them are being allowed to continue merely to spite Colonel
WEDGWOOD.

       ***

Cricket, we are constantly told, must be brightened. Why not allow spectators to assault the
umpires, just as if they were football referees?

       ***

So many people have expressed their intention to swim the Channel this year that there is talk
of abandoning the tunnel scheme as likely to prove unprofitable.

       ***

After knocking a man down with an iron bar at Shoreditch, and being asked by the victim why
he did it, the assailant again knocked him down. Really this is carrying things too far. After
all, politeness costs nothing.

       ***

It appears that the Burglars' Trade Union, not to be outdone, are about to put in a demand
for shorter sentences.

       ***

"Single women," says a scientific journal, "live on an average ten years longer than married
women." After reading this statement, an Irishman has issued a warning against the habit of
marrying single women.

       ***

Grimsby is to have a flag day for the local hospitals. It is not known who first gave them
the idea of a flag day.

       ***

"The only cure for the caterpillar now destroying young oaks in Devon," says a morning paper,
"is to remove the pest at once." The idea of removing the trees does not seem to have occurred
to our contemporary.

       ***

Coins said to have been deposited on the Dinas Mountain, South Wales, over seven hundred years
ago have just been found. This speaks well for the honesty of local residents.

       ***

The EX-KAISER has intimated to a newspaper man that he is prepared to abide by the decisions
of the Peace Conference. This confirms recent indications that WILHELM is developing a sense
of humour.

       ***

"Last week," says The Evening News, "Venus was only 100,000,000 miles away." We are ashamed
to confess that we had not noticed this.

       ***

"An apple a day keeps the doctor away," quotes a weekly paper. We only hope this is true, for
it is impossible to afford both.

       ***

"It is wonderful that there are not more accidents," remarked a Coroner last week. But surely
there are.

       ***

The extraordinary report that a domestic servant has been seen at Purley is now explained.
It was merely a resident going to a fancy-dress dance.

       ***

A medical paper states that if a man was bitten by a rabid cow he would probably go mad and
start grazing in the nearest meadow. Hence the name of the "Pasteur" treatment.

       ***

A dentist in a suburb that shall be nameless has a case of samples attached to the outside
of his front door, with an inscription inviting people to choose a set of teeth before entering.
Surely it is bad manners for anyone to pick his teeth in public.

       ***

Some distinguished players have declared in favour of larger holes for golf. Our own feeling,
however, is that if there is to be any change in the hole it would be better to correct its
absurd habit of slipping to one side just as the ball is dropping in.

       ***

There is said to be a craze among girls for entering Government offices. The mania, an overworked
official informs us, comes on at 10.15 A.M. and lasts about four hours.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Many of the suburbs and outlying districts of London are
    experiencing something like a plague of tiny stinging flies
    similar to, but even more veracious than, the familiar
    'midge.' The plague is not confined to low-lying
    districts."--Daily Paper.

The very last place in which we should expect to find anything "veracious."

       *       *       *       *       *

From a Paris letter:--

    "The Majestic and the Astoria, and the other innumerable
    hotels which house the Allied delegations, are full of the
    white faces of tired secretaries, whose principles have
    departed, or, still worse, returned."--Evening Paper.

We protest against this reflection on the morals of our delegation.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO PEACE, ON HER CELEBRATIONS.

  "Tell me not, Sweet, I am unkind"
    (As Colonel LOVELACE said) if I
  From festal scenes for you designed
    To solitude propose to fly;
  If, when the strident trumpets blare
    From Hampstead Heath to Clapham Junction,
  And bunting fills the ardent air,
    I don't assist at that brave function.

  It does not follow, let me say,
    That I am loath to give you cheer;
  No, in my unobtrusive way
    I hold you very, very dear;
  I may not join the loud parade
    Nor share the crowd's ecstatic tooting,
  Yet in your honour I have paid
    Twelve guineas for a summer suiting.

  Think not I sniff at common joys
    Or that my loyal heart condemns
  A nation's soul expressed in noise
    And pageants barging down the Thames;
  Only, while others dance and pant
    To hymns that carry half a mile hence,
  I never was a Corybant,
    But do my worship best in silence.

  So on your festa I shall be
    Away in some sequestered nook,
  Some open shrine beside the sea
    Where Nature smiles with just your look;
  And lie and let my thoughts go off
    To where you come from--which is Heaven,
  And play a quiet round of golf
    And go to bed about eleven.

  O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RULING PASSION.

"Norman is coming to the dance," said my wife.

"He would prefer to be shot," I answered.

"You are coming too, and I want you to look after him."

"I also would prefer to stop one."

"It will do him all the good in the world. He wants bringing out."

When Norman is alone with me he is natural and even interesting at times, but in company he
is shy and self-conscious and a burden to himself and his neighbours. He is a young dentist
with a large practice, and is already a well-known authority on Japanese methods of extraction.
Using only his thumb and forefinger he can remove long-established teeth with so much ease
and grace and such a quantity of sangfroid that it is a pleasure to watch him at his work.
But to a social gathering he comes limp and infirm of purpose; he feels constrained to utter
futile remarks with undue emphasis trailing into incoherence; he is dreadful to behold.

I did not see him until the end of the second dance. He was in the ante-room and presented
a good example of protective colouring. He was standing with his back to a dark screen, and
his pale face and light hair were indistinguishable against a background of flowers worked
in gold thread. His attitude as he tightly grasped his programme behind him was that of a wounded
dove at bay.

I signalled to him, but, although I was only a few feet away, he could not see me. He had apparently
also lost all power of movement. I took him by the arm and led him to the buffet, and, although
he never takes alcohol, I felt justified in forcing some brandy between his lips. This revived
him a little, and he said in a well-modulated voice: "The surface of the floor is excellent.
It is rather warm and oppressive (or cold and chilly). I adore dancing; it both exercises the
body and refreshes the mind; but unfortunately I have not had many opportunities of indulging
in the art."

I gave him some more brandy.

A little later he recognised me and smiled. I examined his programme and found that he was
engaged for the next dance to a girl who could talk to anyone on any subject; I could see my
wife's hand in the arrangement. I explained the situation, piloted him to his partner and stayed
with them a while. She made several openings for him in the conversation, which he immediately
sealed up with monosyllables, and when she allowed her fan to slip to the floor he stepped
on it. She suggested that they should take the air on the balcony, and as I left them he pulled
himself together and began to tell her, in a well-modulated voice, that the surface of the
floor was excellent.

Later I saw him with the same partner still on the balcony. They were both pale and silent
and had apparently never moved. They seemed to be exercising an unconscious fascination on
one another. My courage failed me and I went elsewhere.

Some time after I happened to be at the buffet when Norman staggered in and ordered a large
brandy-and-soda. There were beads of perspiration on his forehead and he was as white as death.

"What has happened?" I asked as soon as, I could attract his attention.

"It is horrible--horrible!" he gasped.

"Tell me what has happened," I commanded, grasping his shoulder.

"What has happened!" he repeated, with a hollow laugh. "I am undone. My career is at an end.
I am a broken man."

"What have you done?"

"I couldn't help it," he sobbed. "We sat there for an age, an eternity, unable to speak, unable
to move, unable to act. At length my nerve gave way and I--I've pulled all her teeth out."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE UNEMPLOYMENT SCANDAL.

    [The evening papers have lately published some striking
    incidents regarding the struggle for existence that is
    undergone by certain gentlemen who are in receipt of the
    Unemployment Allowance.]

"We are longing for work," said a young man who, after suffering the horrors of war for nearly
four years in the Ministry of Superfluous Hotels and Hutments, has just been evacuated. "We
have prepared a list of billets that we are ready to take up at a moment's notice."

From this list I select a few of the more likely situations:--

1. Hot-cross-bun maker to the Jewish colony at White-chapel.

2. "Double-blank" man at a factory for putting spots on dominoes.

3. Muzzle-maker to the Master of the King's Buckhounds.

4. King of Albania.

5. Judge of the Bigamy Court at Salt Lake City.

6. Military Attaché to the Colonial Secretary to the German Government.

7. Deputy-Assistant Torpedo-Lieutenant to the Swiss Navy.

8. Press Censor to distinguished Field-Marshals, Admirals, etc.

9. Manufacturer of flannel petticoats to the Hippodrome Beauty Chorus.

10. Billiard-marker on a submarine.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PUMPENHEIM.

When Adolf Hans Pumpenheim, farmer, was brought up for trial as a civil offender it is not
too much to say that a shudder passed through the members of the Summary Court, which consisted
of Major Blenkin and myself. This emotion was due not so much to the unprepossessing appearance
of the prisoner as to the enormity of his offence.

He was charged upon two different counts: firstly, with being in illegal possession of two
tins of corned beef and one cake of soap, the property of the British Government; secondly,
with having offered a bribe of fifty marks to Second-Lieutenant Robinson in order to escape arrest.

The charge was translated to the prisoner by an interpreter, who in his turn appeared to feel
the gravity of the occasion. He alluded with bated breath to the topic of corned beef; he slid,
so to speak, over the soap; only in the mention of the fifty marks did his voice ring out confidently,
as though righteous indignation had overcome the baser sentiment of pity. Pumpenheim listened
in silence. When invited to plead Guilty or Not Guilty he made no reply.

Judges are only human. I cannot state that his innocence was presumed.

The evidence was brief. A corporal of foot police, after examining the articles produced in
court, pronounced them to be indubitably two tins of corned beef and a cake of soap, and further
declared that he had found them in the prisoner's house, no troops being at that time billeted
upon him. Second-Lieutenant Robinson deposed that upon his arrival the prisoner had thrust
a fifty-mark note into his hand, accompanying the action with gestures and grimaces suggestive
of bribery.

Here we all looked at Pumpenheim. His features afforded no sign of intelligence or even of
interest. For his particular benefit the evidence was translated. He was further invited to
question the witnesses or to call testimony on his own behalf. To these offers he responded
with a shrug indicating that he waived all rights.

The court was therefore cleared, and Major Blenkin and I proceeded to consider our verdict,
with no other company than the dozen empty stools which had faced us during the trial, and
which represented the inalienable right of the civil population to attend the court if they
pleased. Custom forbids me to divulge the finding or the sentence. It will suffice to say that
justice was tempered with mercy. We were about to readmit the prisoner, his escort and the
imaginary public when my partner in the suppression of crime was struck by an idea.

"Look here," asked Major Blenkin, "what about the moral aspect?"

I hesitate to argue with Blenkin about moral questions, on which he speaks with authority.
I therefore awaited his next remark.

"The moral aspect," Blenkin went on, "is most important. I intend to impress this fellow. I
shall tell him that if he had been a French peasant and had offered a bribe to a German officer
he would have been put against a wall and shot. Do you agree?"

I considered the proposition.

"No," I said, "I don't."

Blenkin threw me a suspicious glance. "Why not?" he asked.

"Too many assumptions," I said.

Blenkin bridled indignantly. It was on the tip of his tongue to charge me with being a pro-German.
He controlled himself and rang a bell. "I shall hold to my own opinion," he remarked with some
asperity.

The prisoner, his escort and the interpreter were marched in. Adolf Hans Pumpenheim created
the customary diversion by turning to the right on the command, "Left turn," and the sergeant-major
made the customary comments, undeterred by the prisoner's ignorance of English. The imaginary
public filed in and occupied the vacant stools.

When this bustle had subsided, the finding and the sentence were read by Blenkin and duly translated
by the interpreter. Pumpenheim was quite impassive, and maintained his composure throughout
the small financial transaction which followed. He counted out his notes with an air of fatalism.
Having obtained a receipt for the fine he made us a little bow and turned to leave the court.

"One moment," said Major Blenkin.

"Einen Augenblick," echoed the interpreter. Pumpenheim faced about and stood to attention.

Blenkin cleared his throat. "I will not dwell upon the moral aspect of your case," he said.
The prisoner's features expressed neither relief nor surprise, but polite inquiry. Blenkin,
slightly ruffled, enlarged upon the heinous nature of the crime and the leniency of the sentence.
Finally he produced his masterpiece of comparison--the French peasant, the German officer,
the attempted bribe, the execution. When the last grim lines of the imaginary history had been
translated for him, Pumpenheim felt some observation on his part to be called for.

"So-o?" he said, "so-o?"

But I heard incredulity in his voice. Blenkin read it in his face. The prisoner did not believe
a word of the tale. He was indifferent to the homily.

Blenkin, defeated, leaned back in his chair. "I give it up," he said. "You have a try at him."

I looked at Pumpenheim. His narrow eyes turned to me.

"If you had offered the money to a German officer," I said, and the interpreter repeated the
words--"if you had offered the money to a German officer he--might--have--taken--it."

Slowly a look of comprehension crossed the face of Adolf Hans Pumpenheim. It was like sunrise
upon his grey and stubbly countenance, where three days' growth of beard had thriven in the
soil of the guard-room. He was not altogether happy, for he had been found guilty and had paid
a fine. But in the course of this ceremony, which appeared to him mystical and obscure, he
had encountered one familiar idea, one thought within his power of understanding. Rectitude
was a stranger to him, but corruption an old friend: He was not abashed; rather, on the contrary,
he was cheered and encouraged. I could see that his heart warmed to me in particular, and I
believe that but for his respect for the Court he would have paid me the compliment of a wink.

"Let him go," said Blenkin; and the Court adjourned for lunch.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "At Newcastle, this afternoon, the airmen, had a great
    reception. The Lord Mayor handed each a book of views of
    Newcastle and a box of cigarettes."--Pall Mall Gazette.

Who says England is not a land for heroes to live in?

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EDITOR REGRETS.

A few weeks ago there appeared in Punch, under the title "A Germless Eden," some verses sent
in by an unknown contributor. The Editor is now informed that the original version of these
lines was the work of Mr. ARTHUR GUITERMAN, of New York, who published them in 1915 with Messrs.
HARPER AND BROTHERS in The Laughing Muse, a collection of his humorous verse. The Editor begs
both author and publishers to accept his sincere regrets.

       *       *       *       *       *

    From a summing-up:--

    "If the plaintiff was telling the truth, he had only himself
    to blame."--Provincial Paper.

If judges say this sort of thing, no wonder perjury is on the increase.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MÉLISANDE'S POINT OF VIEW.

"About rabies," said Angela.

"Well?" said I patiently.

"Well, about Mélisande," said Angela.

"What about Mélisande?" I replied.

"Oh, you know quite well what about Mélisande," said Angela; "about her and Peggy playing so
much together. Is it quite wise, do you think? I've been bothering about it for some days now;
cats are such queer things and a cat with rabies would be so dreadfully dangerous."

"There I quite agree with you," I answered meditatively. "Though I have rather excepted Mélisande
from the general rule I have always considered a cat an exceedingly dangerous animal, and a
cat with rabies is, of course, ten times worse; it simply oughtn't to be allowed."

"I felt sure you would agree with me," said Angela.

Mélisande is a staid creature of placid demeanour and generous proportions. It had never occurred
to me hitherto to associate her with rabies, and I still felt that she herself would scoff
at the idea.

