Lady Thomson, though disappointed in a way, felt that Milly Flaxman was doing credit to her
principles, showing a spirit worthy of her family. She did not urge the Roman plan; but content
with a victory over "nerves and the usual nonsense," withdrew triumphant to the railway station.

Tims came in when she was gone and heard about the Roman offer.

"You refused, when Aunt Beatrice was going to plank down the dollars? M., you are a fool!"

"No, Tims," Mildred answered, deliberately; "you see, I don't feel sure yet whether I can manage
Aunt Beatrice."

CHAPTER V

Oxford is beautiful at all times, beautiful even now, in spite of the cruel disfigurement inflicted
upon her by the march of modern vulgarity, but she has three high festivals which clothe her
with a special glory and crown her with their several crowns. One is the Festival of May, when
her hoary walls and ancient enclosures overflow with emerald and white, rose-color and purple
and gold, a foam of leafage and blossom, breaking spray-like over edges of stone, gray as sea-worn
rocks. And all about the city the green meadows and groves burn with many tones of color, brilliant
as enamels or as precious stones, yet of a texture softer and richer, more full of delicate
shadows than any velvet mantle that ever was woven for a queen.

Another Festival comes with that strayed bacchanal October, who hangs her scarlet and wine-colored
garlands on cloister and pinnacle, on wall and tower. And gradually the foliage of grove and
garden, turns through shade of bluish metallic green, to the mingled splendor of pale gold
and beaten bronze and deepest copper, half glowing and half drowned in the low, mellow sunlight,
and purple mist of autumn.

Last comes the Festival of Mid-winter, the Festival of the Frost. The rime comes, or the snow,
and the long lines of the buildings, the fret-work of stone, the battlements, carved pinnacles
and images of saints or devils, stand up with clear glittering outlines, or clustered about
and overhung with fantasies of ice and snow. Behind, the deep-blue sky itself seems to glitter
too. The frozen floods glitter in the meadows, and every little twig on the bare trees. There
is no color in the earth, but the atmosphere of the river valley clothes distant hills and
trees and hedges with ultramarine vapor. Towards evening the mist climbs, faintly veiling the
tall groves of elms and the piled masses of the city itself. The sunset begins to burn red
behind Magdalen Tower, all the towers and aery pinnacles rise blue yet distinct against it.
And this festival is not only one of nature. The glittering ice is spread over the meadows,
and, everywhere from morning till moonlight, the rhythmical ring of the skate and the sound
of voices sonorous with the joy of living, travel far on the frosty air. Sometimes the very
rivers are frozen, and the broad, bare highway of the Thames and the tree-sheltered path of
the Cherwell are alive with black figures, heel-winged like Mercury, flying swiftly on no errand,
but for the mere delight of flying.

It was early on such a shining festival morning that Mildred, a willowy, brown-clad figure,
came down to a piece of ice in an outlying meadow. Her shadow moved beside her in the sunshine,
blue on the whiteness of the snow, which crunched crisp and thin under her feet. She carried
a black bag in her hand--sign of the serious skater, and her face was serious, even apprehensive.
She saw with relief that except the sweepers there was no one on the ice. A row of shivering
men, buttoned up to the chin in seedy coats, rose from the chairs where they awaited their
appointed prey, and all yelled to her at once. She crowned the hopes of one by occupying his
seat, but the important task of putting on the bladed boots she could depute to none. Tims,
whom no appeal of friendship could induce to shiver on the ice, had told her that Milly was
an expert skater. She was, in fact, correct and accomplished, but there was a stiffness and
sense of effort about her style, a want of that appearance of free and daring abandonment to
the stroke of the blade once launched, that makes the beauty of skating. Mildred knew only
that she had to live up to the reputation of a mighty skater, and was not sure whether she
could even stand on these knifelike edges. She laced one boot, happy in the belief that at
any rate there would be no witness to her voyage of discovery. But a renewed yelling among
the men made her lift her head, and there, striding swiftly over the crisp snow, came a tall,
handsome young man, with a pointed, silky black beard and fine, short-sighted black eyes, aglow
with the pleasure of the frosty sun.

It was Ian Stewart. The young lady whom he discovered to be Miss Flaxman just as he reached
the chairs, was much more annoyed than he at the encounter. Here was an acquaintance, it seemed,
and one provided with the bag and orange which Tims had warned her was the mark of the serious
skater. They exchanged remarks on the weather and she went on lacing her other boot in great
trepidation. The moment was come. She did not recoil from the insult of being seized under
her elbows by two men and carefully planted on her feet as though she were most likely to tumble
down. So far as she knew, she was likely to. But, lo! no sooner was she up than muscles and
nerves, recking nothing of the brain's blind denial, asserted their own acquaintance with the
art of balance and motion. Wondering, and for a few minutes still apprehensive, but presently
lost in the pleasure of the thing, Mildred began to fly over the ice. And the dark, handsome
man who had taken off his cap to her became supremely unimportant. Unluckily the piece of flood-ice
was not endless and she had to come back. He was circling around an orange, and she, throwing
herself instinctively on to the outside edge, came down towards him in great, sweeping curves,
absorbed in the delight of this motion, so new yet so perfectly under her control. Ian Stewart,
perceiving that the girl was absolutely unconscious of his presence, blushed in his soul to
think that he had been induced to believe himself to be of importance in her eyes.

"Miss Flaxman," he said, skating up to her, "I see you have no orange. Can't we skate a figure
together around mine?"

"I've forgotten all about figures," replied Mildred, with truth.

"Try some simple turns," he urged. "There are plenty here," and he held up a book in his hand
like the one she had found in her own black bag. But it had "Ian Stewart, Durham College,"
written clearly on the outside.

"So that's Stewart!" thought Milly; and she could not help laughing at her own thoughts, which
had created him in a different image.

Stewart did not know why she laughed, but he found the sound and sight of the laugh new and
charming.

"It's awfully kind of you to undertake my education in another branch, Mr. Stewart," she answered,
pouting, "in spite of having found out that I'm not at all clever."

She smiled at him mutinously, sweeping towards the orange with head thrown back over her left
shoulder. Momentarily the poise of her head recalled the attitude of the portrait of Lady Hammerton,
beckoning her unseen companions to that far-off mysterious mountain country, where the torrents
shine so whitely through the mist and the red line of sunset speaks of coming night.

Stewart colored, slightly confused. This brutal statement did not seem to him to represent
the just and candid account he had given Miss Walker of Miss Flaxman's abilities.

"Some one's been misreporting me, I see," he returned. "But anyhow, on the ice, Miss Flaxman,
it's you who are the Professor; I who am the pupil. So I offer you a fair revenge."

Accordingly, Mildred soon found herself placed at a due distance from the orange, with Stewart
equally distant from it on the other side. After a few minutes of extreme uneasiness, she discovered
that although she had to halt at each fresh call, she had a kind of mechanical familiarity
with the simple figures which he gave her.

Stewart, though learned, was human; and to sweep now at the opposite pole to his companion,
now with a swing of clasping hands at the centre of their delightful dance, his eyes always
perforce on his charming partner, and her eyes on him, undeniably raised the pleasure of skating
to a higher power than if he had circled the orange in company with mere man.

So they fleeted the too-short time in the sparkling blue and white world, drinking the air
like celestial wine.

The Festival of the Frost had fallen in the Christmas Vacation, and Oxford society in vacation
is essentially different from that of Term-time, when it is overflowed by men who are but birds
of passage, coming no one inquires whence, and flitting few know whither. The party that picnicked,
played hockey, danced and figured on their skates through the weeks of the frost, was in those
days almost like a family party. So it happened that Ian Stewart met the new Miss Flaxman in
an atmosphere of friendly ease that years of term-time society would not have afforded him.
How new she was he did not guess, but supposed the change to be in his own eyes. Other people,
however, saw it. Her very skating was different. It had gained in grace and vigor, but she
was seldom seen wooing the serious and lonely orange around which Milly had acquired the skill
that Mildred now enjoyed. On the contrary, she initiated an epidemic of frivolity on the ice
in the shape of waltzing and hand-in-hand figures in general.

Ian Stewart, too, neglected the orange and went in for hand-in-hand figures that season. Other
things, too, he neglected; work, which he had never before allowed to suffer measurably from
causes within his control; and far from blushing for his idleness, he rejoiced in it, as the
surest sign of all that for him the Festival of Spring had come in the time of nature's frost.

It was not only the crisp air, the frequent sun, the joyous flights over the ringing ice that
made his blood run faster through his veins and laughter come more easily to his lips; that
aroused him in the morning with a strange sense of delight, as though some spirit had awakened
him with a glad reveille at the window of his soul. He, too, was in Arcady. That in itself
should be sufficient joy; he knew he must restrain his impatience for more. Not till the summer,
when the lady of his heart had ceased to be also his pupil, must he make avowal of his love.

Mildred on her part found Stewart the most attractive of the men with whom she was acquainted.
As yet in this new existence of hers, she had not moved outside the Oxford circle--a circle
exceptional in England, because in it intellectual eminence, not always recognized, when recognized
receives as much honor as is accorded to a great fortune or a great name in ordinary society.
Stewart's abilities were of a kind to be recognized by the Academic world. He was already known
in the Universities of the Continent and America. Oxford was proud of him; and although Mildred
had no desire to marry as yet, it gratified her taste and her vanity to win him for a lover.

CHAPTER VI

Mildred had had no desire to spend her vacations with Lady Thomson, and on the ground of her
reading for the Schools, had been allowed to spend them in Oxford. Tims, who had no relations,
remained with her. She had for Mildred a sentiment almost like that of a parent, besides an
admiration for which she was slightly ashamed, feeling it to be something of a slur on the
memory of Milly, her first and kindest friend.

Mildred had recovered her memory for most things, but the facts of her former life were still
a blank to her. She had begun to work for her First in order to evade Aunt Beatrice; but the
fever of it grew upon her, either from the ambient air of the University or from a native passion
to excel in all she did. Her teachers were bewildered by the mental change in Miss Flaxman.
The qualities of intellectual swiftness, vigor, pliancy, whose absence they had once noted
in her, became, on the contrary, conspicuously hers. Once initiated into the tricks of the
"Great Essay" style, she could use it with a dexterity strangely in contrast with the flat
and fumbling manner in which poor Milly had been wont to express her ideas. But in the region
of actual knowledge, she now and again perpetrated some immense and childish blunder, which
made the teachers, who nursed and trained her like a jockey or a race-horse, tremble for the
results of the Greats Examination.

All too swiftly the date of the Schools loomed on the horizon; drew near; was come. The June
weather was glorious on the river, but in the town, above all in the Examination Schools, it
was very hot. The sun glared pitilessly in through the great windows of the big T-shaped room,
till the temperature was that of a greenhouse. The young men in their black coats and white
ties looked enviously at the girl candidate, the only one, in her white waist and light skirt.
They envied her, too, her apparent indifference to a crisis that paled the masculine cheek.
In fact, Mildred was nervous, but her nerves were strung up to so high a pitch that she was
sensitive neither to temperature nor to fatigue, nor to want of sleep. And at the service of
her quick intelligence and ready pen lay all the stored knowledge of Milly the First.

On the last day, when the last paper was over, Tims came and found her in the big hall, planting
the pins in her hat with an almost feverish energy. Although it was five o'clock, she said
she wanted air, not tea. The last men had trooped listlessly down the steps of the Schools
and the two girls stood there while Mildred drew on her gloves. The sun wearing to the northwest,
shone down that curve of the High Street which all Europe cannot match. The slanting gold illumined
the gray face of the University and the wide pavement, where the black-gowned victims of the
Schools threaded their sombre way through groups of joyous youths in flannels and ladies in
summer attire. On the opposite side cool shadows were beginning to invade the sunshine, to
slant across the old houses, straight-roofed or gabled, the paladian pile of Queen's, the mediæval
front of All Souls, with its single and perfect green tree, leading up to the consummation
of the great spire of St. Mary's.

Already, from the tall bulk of the nave, a shadow fell broad across the pavement. But still
the heat of the day reverberated from the stones about them. They turned down to the Botanical
Gardens and paced that gray enclosure, full of the pride of branches and the glory of flowers
and overhung by the soaring vision of Magdalen Tower. Mildred was walking fast and talking
volubly about the Examination and everything else.

"Look here, old girl," said Tims at last, when they reached for the second time the seat under
the willow trellis, "I'm going to sit down here, unless you'll come to tea at Boffin's."

"I don't want to sit down," returned Mildred, seating herself; "or to have tea or anything.
I want to be just going, going, going. I feel as though if I stop for a minute something horrid
will happen."

Tims wrinkled her whole face anxiously.

"Don't do that, Tims," cried Mildred, sharply. "You look hideous."

Tims colored, rose and walked away. She suddenly thought, with tears in her eyes, of the old
Milly who would never have spoken to her like that. By the time she had reached the little
basin in the middle of the garden, where the irises grew, Mildred had caught her up.

"Tims, dear old Tims! What a wretch I am! I couldn't help letting off steam on something--you
don't know what I feel like."

Tims allowed herself to be pacified, but in her heart there remained a yearning for her earlier
and gentler friend--that Milly Flaxman who was certainly not dead, yet as certainly gone out
of existence.

It was towards the end of the last week of Term, and the gayeties of Commemoration had already
begun. Mildred threw herself into them with feverish enjoyment. She seemed to grudge even the
hours that must be lost in the unconsciousness of sleep. The Iretons, cousins from India, who
had never known the former Milly, took a house in Oxford for a week. She went with them to
three College balls and a Masonic, and spent the days in a carnival of luncheon and boating-parties.
She attracted plenty of admiration, and enjoyed herself wildly, yet also purposefully; because
she was trying to get rid of that haunting feeling that if she stopped a minute "something
horrid would happen."

Stewart meantime was finding love not so entirely beautiful and delightful a thing as he had
at first imagined it. In his dreamy way he had overlooked the fact of Commemoration, and planned
when Term was over to find Mildred constantly at the Fletchers' and to be able to arrange quiet
days on the river. But if he found her there, she was always in company, and though she made
herself as charming to him as usual, she showed no disposition to forsake all others and cleave
only to him. He was not a dancing man, and suffered cruelly on the evenings when he knew her
to be at balls, and fancied all her partners in love with her.

But on the Thursday after Commemoration, the Fletchers gave a strawberry tea at Wytham, as
a farewell festivity to their cousins. And Ian Stewart was there. With Mrs. Fletcher's connivance,
he took Mildred home alone in a canoe, by the deep and devious stream which runs under Wytham
woods. She went on talking with a vivacious gayety which was almost foolish. He saw that it
was unreal and that her nerves were at high tension. His own were also. He did not intend to
propose to her that day; but he could no longer restrain himself, and he began to speak to
her of his love.

"Hush!" she cried, with a vehement gesture. "Not to-day! oh, not to-day! I can't bear it!"
She put her head on her knee and moaned again, "Not to-day, I'm too tired, I really am. I can't
bear it."

This was all the answer he could get, and her manner left him in complete uncertainty as to
whether she meant to accept or to refuse him.

Tims had been at the strawberry tea too, and came into Mildred's room in the evening, curious
to know what had happened. She found Mildred without a light, sitting, or rather lying in a
wicker chair. When the candle was lighted she saw that Mildred was very pale and shivering.

"You're overtired, my girl," she said. "That's what's the matter with you."

"Oh, Tims," moaned Mildred. "I feel so ill and so frightened. I know something horrid's going
to happen--I know it is."

"Don't be a donkey," returned Tims. "I'll help you undress and then you turn in. You'll be
as jolly as a sandboy to-morrow."

But Mildred was crying tremulously. "Oh, Tims, how dreadful it would be to die!"

"Idiot!" cried Tims, and shook Mildred with all her might. Mildred's tiny sobs turned into
a shriek of laughter.

"My goodness!" ejaculated Tims; "you're in hysterics!"

"I know I am," gasped Mildred. "I was laughing to think of what Aunt Beatrice would say." And
she giggled amid her tears.

Tims insisted on her rising from the chair, undressing, and getting into bed. Then she sat
by her in the half-dark, waiting for the miserable tears to leave off.

"Don't cry, old girl, don't cry. Go to sleep and forget all about it," she kept repeating,
almost mechanically.

At length leaning over the bed she saw that Mildred was asleep, lying straight on her bed with
her feet crossed and her hands laid on her bosom.

CHAPTER VII

About noon on Friday Milly Flaxman awoke. She lay very quiet, sleepy and comfortable, her eyes
fixed idly on a curve in the jessamine-pattern paper opposite her bed. The windows were wide
open, the blinds down and every now and again flapping softly, as a capricious little breeze
went by, whispering through the leafy trees outside. There seemed nothing unusual in that;
she always slept with her windows open. But as her senses emerged from those mists which lie
on the surface of the river of sleep, she was conscious of a balmy warmth in the room, of an
impression of bright sunshine behind the dark blinds, and of noises from the streets reaching
her with a kind of sharpness associated with sunshine. She sat up, looked at her watch, and
was shocked to find how late she had slept. She must have missed a lecture. Then the recollection
of the dinner-party at the Fletchers', the verdict of Mr. Stewart on her chance of a First,
and her own hysterical outburst returned to her, overpowering all outward impressions. She
felt calm and well now, but unhappy and ashamed of herself. She put her feet out of bed and
looked round mechanically for her dressing-gown and slippers. Their absence was unimportant,
for no sense of chill struck through her thin night-gown to her warm body, and going to the
window, she drew up the blind.

The high June sun struck full upon her, hot and dazzling, but not so dazzling that she could
not see the row of garden trees through whose bare branches she had yesterday descried the
squalid roofs of the town. They were spreading now in a thick screen of fresh green leaves.
She leaned out, as though further investigation might explain the phenomenon, and saw a red
standard rose in full flower under her window. The thing was exactly like a dream, and she
tried to wake up but could not. She was panic-stricken and trembling. Had she been very, very
ill? Was it possible to be unconscious for six months? She looked at herself in a dressing-glass
near the window, which she had never placed there, and saw that she was pale and had dark marks
under her eyes, but not more so than had been the case in that yesterday so strangely and mysteriously
removed in time. Her slender white arms and throat were as rounded as usual. And if she had
been ill, why was she left alone like this? She found a dressing-gown not her own, and went
on a voyage of discovery. But the other rooms on her floor were dismantled and tenantless.
The girls were gone and the servants were "cleaning" in a distant part of the College. She
felt incapable of getting into bed again and waiting for some one to come, so she began dressing
herself with trembling hands. Every detail increased the sense of strangeness. There were a
number of strange clothes, ball-dresses and others, hanging in her cupboard, strange odds and
ends thrust confusedly into her bureau. She found at length a blue cotton frock of her own,
which seemed just home from the wash. She had twisted up her hair and was putting on the blue
frock, when she heard a step on the stairs, and paused with beating heart. Who was coming?
How would the mystery be resolved? The door opened and Tims came in--the old Tims, wrinkled
face, wig, and old straw hat on one side as usual.

"Tims!" cried Milly, flying towards her and speaking with pale lips. "Please, please tell me--what
has happened? Have I been very ill?" And she stared in Tims's face with a tragic mask of terror
and anxiety.

"Now take it easy--take it easy, M., my girl!" cried Tims, giving her a great squeeze and a
clap on the shoulder. "I'm jolly glad to see you back. But don't let's have any more of your
hysterics. No, never no more!"

"Have I been away?" asked Milly, her lips still trembling.

