"To write another person's life-history in the first person, and yet give to it the verisimilitude
of a genuine autobiography, would under ordinary circumstances be a difficult if not impossible
undertaking." So Mr. C. E. GOULDSBURY tells us in a note to Reminiscences of a Stowaway (CHAPMAN
AND HALL), and most of us will cordially agree with him. But, after reading this volume of
reminiscences, I think you will also agree that Mr. GOULDSBURY has acquitted himself admirably
of a most difficult task. The man into whose skin, if I may so express it, he has temporarily
tried to fit himself was Mr. ALEXANDER DOUGLAS LARYMORE, who started his adventurous career
as a stowaway in an "old iron tub," and eventually became Inspector-General of Jails in India.
For nearly forty years Mr. GOULDSBURY was Mr. LARYMORE'S intimate friend, and has had sufficient
data at his disposal to do justice to what was a remarkably full and interesting life. Possibly
those of us who retain a tender spot in our hearts for stowaways may regret that Mr. LARYMORE
grew tired of the sea; but his adventures were as numerous and amusing on land as on water,
and they are also valuable for the strong light they throw on the India of some years ago.
Mr. GOULDSBURY has at once provided a lasting tribute to the memory of his friend and written
a book which both in style and matter would be hard to beat.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Are you a victim to the Tarzan habit? Perhaps your eye may have been caught by the word on
bookstalls as the generic title of an increasing pile of volumes; but knowing, like myself,
that all things explain themselves in time, you may have been content to leave it at that.
Meanwhile, however, the thing has continued to spread, till on the wrapper of Tarzan the Untamed
(METHUEN), which now at last finds me out, its publishers are able to number its devotees in
millions. Well, of course the outstanding fact about such popularity is that in face of it
any affectation of superiority becomes simply silly. One has got to accept this creation of
Mr. EDGAR RICE BURROUGHS as among the definite literary phenomena of our time. In the immediate
spasm before me Tarzan (who is, if you need telling, a kind of horribly exaggerated Mowgli
after a diet of the Food of the Gods) is represented as placing himself at the disposal of
the British forces in East Africa, and attacking the Germans with man-eating lions. The rather
chastening feature of which was my own unexpected enjoyment of the idea. Even, for one disconcerting
moment, like the persons in the admonitory anecdotes who taste opium "just for fun," I began
to feel that perhaps.... However it passed, and the temptation has not returned. Meanwhile
the real nature of Tarzanism, whether some sinister possession or simply the age-long appetite
for the monstrous, just now a little out of hand, remains as far from solution as ever.

       *       *       *       *       *

