The learned, on the contrary, who have been bred up in reverence for established opinions,
and who have felt in many instances the advantage of general principles, are apt to adhere
too pertinaciously to their theories, and hence they neglect or despise new observations. How
long did the maxim, that nature abhors a vacuum, content the learned! And how many discoveries
were retarded by this single false principle! For a great number of years it was affirmed and
believed, that all objects were seen by the intervention of visual rays, proceeding from the
eye much in the same manner as we feel any object at a distance from us by the help of a stick.[55]
Whilst this absurd analogy satisfied the mind, no discoveries were made in vision, none were
attempted. A prepossession often misleads the industry of active genius. Dr. Hooke, in spite
of the ridicule which he met with, was firm in his belief, that mankind would discover some
method of sailing in the air. Balloons have justified his prediction; but all his own industry
in trying experiments upon flying was wasted, because he persisted in following a false analogy
to the wings of birds. He made wings of various sorts; till he took it for granted that he
must learn to fly by mechanical means: had he applied to chemistry, he might have succeeded.
It is curious to observe, how nearly he once touched upon the discovery, and yet, misled by
his prepossessions, quitted his hold. He observed, that the air cells[56] of fishes are filled
with air, which buoys them up in the water; and he supposes that this air is lighter than common
air. Had he pursued this idea, he might have invented balloons; but he returned with fatal
perseverance to his old theory of wings. From such facts, we may learn the power and danger
of prejudice in the most ingenious minds; and we shall be careful to preserve our pupils early
from its blind dominion.

The best preservation against the presumption to which ignorance is liable, and the best preservative
against the self sufficiency to which the learned are subject, is the habit of varying our
studies and occupations. Those who have a general view of the whole map of human knowledge,
perceive how many unexplored regions are yet to be cultivated by future industry; nor will
they implicitly submit to the reports of ignorant voyagers. No imaginary pillars of Hercules,
will bound their enterprises. There is no presumption in believing, that much more is possible
to science than ever human ingenuity has executed; therefore, young people should not be ridiculed
for that sanguine temper which excites to great inventions. They should be ridiculed only when
they imagine that they possess the means of doing things to which they are unequal. The fear
of this deserved ridicule, will stimulate them to acquire knowledge, and will induce them to
estimate cautiously their own powers before they hazard their reputation. We need not fear
that this caution should repress their activity of mind; ambition will secure their perseverance,
if they are taught that every acquisition is within the reach of unremitting industry. This
is not an opinion to be artfully inculcated to serve a particular purpose, but it is an opinion
drawn from experience; an opinion which men of the highest abilities and integrity, of talents
and habits the most dissimilar, have confirmed by their united testimony. Helvetius maintained,
that no great man ever formed a great design which he was not also capable of executing.

Even where great perseverance is exercised, the choice of the subjects on which the inventive
powers are employed determines, in a great measure, their value: therefore, in the education
of ingenious children, we should gradually turn their attention from curious trifles to important
objects. Boverick,[57] who made chains "to yoke a flea," must have possessed exquisite patience;
besides his chain of two hundred links, with its padlock and key, all weighing together less
than the third part of a grain, this indefatigable minute artificer was the maker of a landau,
which opened and shut by springs: this equipage, with six horses harnessed to it, a coachman
sitting on the box, with a dog between his legs, four inside and two outside passengers, besides
a postilion riding one of the fore horses, was drawn with all the ease and safety imaginable
by a well trained flea! The inventor and executor of this puerile machine, bestowed on it,
probably, as much time as would have sufficed to produce Watt's fire engine, or Montgolfier's
balloon. It did not, perhaps, cost the Marquis of Worcester more exertion to draw out his celebrated
century of inventions; it did not, perhaps, cost Newton more to write those queries which Maclaurin
said he could never read without feeling his hair stand on end with admiration.

Brebeuf, a French wit, wrote a hundred and fifty epigrams upon a painted lady; a brother wit,
fired with emulation, wrote upon the same subject three hundred more, making in all four hundred
and fifty epigrams, each with appropriate turns of their own. Probably, Pope and Parnell did
not rack their invention so much, or exercise more industry in completing "The Rape of the
Lock," or "The Rise of Woman." These will live for ever; who will read the four hundred and
fifty epigrams?

The most effectual methods to discourage in young people the taste for frivolous ingenuity,
will be, never to admire these "laborious nothings," to compare them with useful and elegant
inventions, and to show that vain curiosities can be but the wonder and amusement of a moment.
Children who begin with trifling inventions, may be led from these to general principles; and
with their knowledge, their ambition will necessarily increase. It cannot be expected that
the most enlarged plan of education could early give an intimate acquaintance with all the
sciences; but with their leading principles, their general history, their present state, and
their immediate desiderata,[58] young people may, and ought to be, made acquainted. Their own
industry will afterwards collect more precise information, and they will never waste their
time in vain studies and fruitless inventions. Even if the cultivation of the memory were our
grand object, this plan of education will succeed. When the Abbé de Longuerue, whose prodigious
memory we have formerly mentioned, was asked by the Marquis d'Argenson, how he managed to arrange
and retain in his head every thing that entered it, and to recollect every thing when wanted?
The Abbé answered:

"Sir, the elements of every science must be learned whilst we are very young; the first principles
of every language; the a b c, as I may say, of every kind of knowledge: this is not difficult
in youth, especially as it is not necessary to penetrate far; simple notions are sufficient;
when once these are acquired, every thing we read afterwards, finds its proper place."

FOOTNOTES:

[39] V. Plutarch. Quintilian.

[40] Berington's History of the Lives of Abeillard and Heloisa, page 173.

[41] Eloge de M. L'Abbé d'Alary.

[42] Marquis d'Argenson's Essays, page 385.

[43] D'Alembert's Eloge de M. d'Alary.

[44] Curiosities of Literature, vol. ii. page 145.

[45] Priestley on Electricity, page 317.

[46] Fuller, author of the Worthies of England. See Curiosities of Literature, vol. i.

[47] V. Chapter on Books, and on Geography.

[48] Dr. Darwin. Zoonomia.

[49] At the end of the History of Vision.

[50] "Nov. 7, 1749. Electrical fluid agrees with lightning in these particulars. 1. Giving
light. 2. Colour of the light. 3. Crooked direction. 4. Swift motion. 5. Being conducted by
metals. 6. Crack or noise in exploding. 7. Subsisting in water or ice. 8. Rending bodies it
passes through. 9. Destroying animals. 10. Melting metals. 11. Firing inflammable substances.
12. Sulphureous smell. The electric fluid is attracted by points. We do not know whether this
property is in lightning. But since they agree in all the particulars wherein we can already
compare them, is it not probable they agree likewise in this? Let the experiment be made."

Dr. Franklin's Letters, page 322.

[51] Helvetius, "Sur l'Esprit."

[52] See preface to L'Esprit des Romains considéré.

[53] See the account in the Monthly Review.

[54] He had tried to sing it to the tune of "Hope, thou nurse of young desire."

[55] Priestley on Vision, vol. i. page 23.

[56] V. Hooke's Posthumous Works.

[57] Hooke's Mycrographia, p. 62.

CHAPTER XXII.

TASTE AND IMAGINATION.

Figurative language seems to have confounded the ideas of most writers upon metaphysics. Imagination,
Memory, and Reason, have been long introduced to our acquaintance as allegorical personages,
and we have insensibly learned to consider them as real beings. The "viewless regions" of the
soul, have been portioned out amongst these ideal sovereigns; but disputes have, nevertheless,
sometimes arisen concerning the boundaries of intellectual provinces. Amongst the disputed
territories, those of Imagination have been most frequently the seat of war; her empire has
been subject to continual revolution; her dominions have been, by potent invaders, divided
and subdivided. Fancy,[59] Memory,[60] Ideal presence,[61] and Conception,[62] have shared
her spoils.

By poets, imagination has been addressed as the great parent of genius, as the arbiter, if
not the creator, of our pleasures; by philosophers, her name has been sometimes pronounced
with horror; to her fatal delusions, they have ascribed all the crimes and miseries of mankind.
Yet, even philosophers have not always agreed in their opinions: whilst some have treated Imagination
with contempt, as the irreconcileable enemy of Reason, by others[63] she has been considered
with more respect, as Reason's inseparable friend; as the friend who collects and prepares
all the arguments upon which Reason decides; as the injured, misrepresented power who is often
forced to supply her adversaries with eloquence, who is often called upon to preside at her
own trial, and to pronounce her own condemnation.

Imagination is "the power," we are told, of "forming images:" the word image, however, does
not, strictly speaking, express any thing more than a representation of an object of sight;
but the power of imagination extends to objects of all the senses.

    "I hear a voice you cannot hear,
    Which says I must not stay.
    I see a hand you cannot see,
    Which beckons me away."

Imagination hears the voice, as well as sees the hand; by an easy license of metaphor, what
was originally used to express the operation of our senses, is extended to them all. We do
not precisely say, that Imagination, forms images of past sounds, or tastes, or smells; but
we say that she forms ideas of them; and ideas, we are told, are mental images. It has been
suggested by Dr. Darwin, that all these analogies between images and thoughts have, probably,
originated in our observing the little pictures painted on the retina of the eye.

It is difficult certainly, if not impossible, to speak of the invisible operations of the mind
or body, without expressing ourselves in metaphor of some kind or other; and we are easily
misled by allusions to sensible objects, because when we comprehend the allusion, we flatter
ourselves that we understand the theory which it is designed to illustrate. Whether we call
ideas images in popular language, or vibrations, according to Dr. Hartley's system, or modes
of sensation with Condillac, or motions of the sensorium, in the language of Dr. Darwin, may
seem a matter of indifference. But even the choices of names is not a matter of indifference
to those who wish to argue accurately; when they are obliged to describe their feelings or
thoughts by metaphoric expressions, they will prefer the simplest; those with which the fewest
extraneous associations are connected. Words which call up a variety of heterogeneous ideas
to our minds, are unfit for the purposes of sober reasoning; our attention is distracted by
them, and we cannot restrain it to the accurate comparison of simple proportions. We yield
to pleasing reverie, instead of exerting painful voluntary attention. Hence it is probably
useful in our attempts to reason, especially upon metaphysical subjects, to change from time
to time our nomenclature,[64] and to substitute terms which have no relation to our old associations,
and which do not affect the prejudices of our education. We are obliged to define with some
degree of accuracy the sense of new terms, and we are thus led to compare our old notions with
more severity. Our superstitious reverence for mere symbols is also dissipated; symbols are
apt to impose even upon those who acknowledge their vanity, and who profess to consider them
merely as objects of vulgar worship.

When we call a class of our ideas images and pictures, a tribe of associations with painting
comes into our mind, and we argue about Imagination as if she were actually a paintress, who
has colours at her command, and who, upon some invisible canvass in the soul, portrays the
likeness of all earthly and celestial objects. When we continue to pursue the same metaphor
in speaking of the moral influence of Imagination, we say that her colouring deceives us, that
her pictures are flattering and false, that she draws objects out of proportion, &c. To what
do all these metaphors lead? We make no new discoveries by talking in this manner; we do not
learn the cause or the cure of any of the diseases of the mind; we only persuade ourselves
that we know something, when we are really ignorant.

We have sedulously avoided entering into any metaphysical disquisitions; but we have examined
with care the systems of theoretic writers, that we may be able to avail ourselves of such
of their observations as can be reduced to practice in education. With respect to the arts,
imagination may be considered practically in two points of view, as it relates to our taste,
and as it relates to our talents for the arts. Without being a poet, or an orator, a man may
have a sufficient degree of imagination to receive pleasure from the talents of others; he
may be a critical judge of the respective merits of orators, poets, and artists. This sensibility
to the pleasures of the imagination, when judiciously managed, adds much to the happiness of
life, and it must be peculiarly advantageous to those who are precluded by their station in
society from the necessity of manual labour. Mental exercise, and mental amusements, are essential
to persons in the higher ranks of life, who would escape from the fever of dissipation, or
from the lethargy of ennui. The mere physical advantages which wealth can procure, are reducible
to the short sum of "meat, fire, and clothes." A nobleman of the highest birth, and with the
longest line of ancestry, inherits no intuitive taste, nor can he purchase it from the artist,
the painter, or the poet; the possession of the whole Pinelli library could not infuse the
slightest portion of literature. Education can alone give the full power to enjoy the real
advantages of fortune. To educate the taste and the imagination, it is not necessary to surround
the heir of an opulent family with masters and connoisseurs. Let him never hear the jargon
of amateurs, let him learn the art "not to admire." But in his earliest childhood cultivate
his senses with care, that he may be able to see and hear, to feel and understand, for himself.
Visible images he will rapidly collect in his memory; but these must be selected, and his first
associations must not be trusted to accident. Encourage him to observe with attention all the
works of nature, but show him only the best imitations of art; the first objects that he contemplates
with delight, will remain long associated with pleasure in his imagination; you must, therefore,
be careful, that these early associations accord with the decisions of those who have determined
the national standard of taste. In many instances taste is governed by arbitrary and variable
laws; the fashions of dress, of decoration, of manner, change from day to day; therefore no
exclusive prejudices should confine your pupil's understanding. Let him know, as far as we
know them, the general principles which govern mankind in their admiration of the sublime and
beautiful; but at the same time give him that enlarged toleration of mind, which comprehends
the possibility of a taste different from our own. Show him, and you need not go further than
the Indian skreen, or the Chinese paper in your drawing room, for the illustration, that the
sublime and beautiful vary at Pekin, at London, on Westminster bridge, and on the banks of
the Ganges. Let your young pupil look over a collection of gems or of ancient medals; it is
necessary that his eye should be early accustomed to Grecian beauty, and to all the classic
forms of grace. But do not suffer him to become a bigot, though he may be an enthusiast in
his admiration of the antique. Short lessons upon this subject may be conveyed in a few words.
If a child sees you look at the bottom of a print for the name of the artist, before you will
venture to pronounce upon its merits, he will follow your example, and he will judge by the
authority of others, and not by his own taste. If he hears you ask, who wrote this poem? Who
built this palace? Is this a genuine antique? he will ask the same questions before he ventures
to be pleased. If he hears you pronounce with emphasis, that such a thing comes from Italy,
and therefore must be in good taste, he will take the same compendious method of decision upon
the first convenient occasion.

He will not trouble himself to examine why utility pleases, nor will he analyze his taste,
or discover why one proportion or one design pleases him better than another; he will, if by
example you teach him prejudice, content himself with repeating the words, proportion, antique,
picturesque, &c. without annexing any precise ideas to these words.

Parents, who have not turned their attention to metaphysics, may, perhaps, apprehend, that
they have something very abstruse or intricate to learn, before they can instruct their pupils
in the principles of taste: but these principles are simple, and two or three entertaining
books, of no very alarming size, comprise all that has yet been ascertained upon this subject.
Vernet's Théorie des Sentiments Agréables; Hogarth's Analysis of Beauty; an Essay of Hume's
on the standard of taste; Burke's Sublime and Beautiful; Lord Kames's Elements of Criticism;
Sir Joshua Reynold's Discourses; and Alison on Taste; contain so much instruction, mixed with
so much amusement, that we cannot think that it will be a terrible task to any parent to peruse
them.

These books are above the comprehension of children; but the principles which they contain,
can be very early illustrated in conversation. It will be easy, in familiar instances, to show
children that the fitness, propriety, or utility of certain forms, recommends them to our approbation:
that uniformity, an appearance of order and regularity, are, in some cases, agreeable to us;
contrast, in others: that one class of objects pleases us from habit, another from novelty,
&c. The general principle that governs taste, in the greatest variety of instances, is the
association of ideas, and this, fortunately, can be most easily illustrated.

"I like such a person, because her voice puts me in mind of my mother's. I like this walk,
because I was very happy the last time I was here with my sister. I think green is the prettiest
of all colours; my father's room is painted green, and it is very cheerful, and I have been
very happy in that room; and, besides, the grass is green in spring." Such simple observations
as these, come naturally from children; they take notice of the influence of association upon
their taste, though, perhaps, they may not extend their observations so as to deduce the general
principle according to philosophical forms. We should not lay down for them this or any other
principle of taste, as a rule which they are to take for granted; but we should lead them to
class their own desultory remarks, and we should excite them to attend to their own feelings,
and to ascertain the truth, by experiments upon themselves. We have often observed, that children
have been much entertained with comparing the accidental circumstances they have met with,
and the unpremeditated expressions used in conversation, with any general maxim. In this point
of view, we may render even general maxims serviceable to children, because they will excite
to experiment: our pupils will detect their falsehood, or, after sufficient reflection, acknowledge
their truth.

Perhaps it may be thought, that this mode of instruction will tend rather to improve the judgment
than the taste; but every person of good taste, must have also a good judgment in matters of
taste: sometimes the judgment may have been partially exercised upon a particular class of
objects, and its accuracy of discrimination may be confined to this one subject; therefore
we hastily decide, that, because men of taste may not always be men of universally good judgment,
these two powers of the mind are unnecessary to one another. By teaching the philosophy, at
the same time that we cultivate the pleasures, of taste, we shall open to our pupils a new
world; we shall give them a new sense. The pleasure of every effect will be increased by the
perception of its cause; the magic of the scenery will not lose its power to charm, though
we are aware of the secret of the enchantment.

We have hitherto spoken of the taste for what is beautiful; a taste for the sublime we should
be cautious in cultivating. Obscurity and terror are two of the grand sources of the sublime;
analyze the feeling, examine accurately the object which creates the emotion, and you dissipate
the illusion, you annihilate the pleasure.

    "What seemed its head, the likeness of a kingly crown had on."

The indistinctness of the head and of the kingly crown, makes this a sublime image. Upon the
same principle,

    "Danger, whose limbs, of giant mould,
    No mortal eye can fix'd behold,"

always must appear sublime as long as the passion of fear operates.
Would it not, however, be imprudent in education to permit that early
propensity to superstitious terrors, and that temporary suspension of
the reasoning faculties, which are often essential to our taste for
the sublime? When we hear of "Margaret's grimly ghost," or of the
"dead still hour of night," a sort of awful tremor seizes us, partly
from the effect of early associations, and partly from the solemn tone
of the reader. The early associations which we perhaps have formed of
terror, with the ideas of apparitions, and winding sheets, and sable
shrouds, should be unknown to children. The silent solemn hour of
midnight, should not to them be an hour of terror.
    At every solemn pause the crowd recoil,
    Gazing each other speechless, and congeal'd
    With shiv'ring sighs; till, eager for th' event,
    Around the beldam all erect they hang,
    Each trembling heart with grateful terrors quell'd."[65]

No prudent mother will ever imitate this eloquent village matron, nor will she permit any beldam
in the nursery to conjure up these sublime shapes, and to quell the hearts of her children
with these grateful terrors. We were once present when a group of speechless children sat listening
to the story of Blue-beard, "breathing astonishment." A gentleman who saw the charm beginning
to operate, resolved to counteract its dangerous influence. Just at the critical moment, when
the fatal key drops from the trembling hands of the imprudent wife, the gentleman interrupted
the awful pause of silence that ensued, and requested permission to relate the remainder of
the story. Tragi-comedy does not offend the taste of young, so much as of old critics; the
transition from grave to gay was happily managed. Blue-beard's wife afforded much diversion,
and lost all sympathy the moment she was represented as a curious, tattling, timid, ridiculous
woman. The terrors of Blue-beard himself subsided when he was properly introduced to the company;
and the denouement of the piece was managed much to the entertainment of the audience; the
catastrophe, instead of freezing their young blood, produced general laughter. Ludicrous images,
thus presented to the mind which has been prepared for horror, have an instantaneous effect
upon the risible muscles: it seems better to use these means of counteracting the terrors of
the imagination, than to reason upon the subject whilst the fit is on; reason should be used
between the fits.[66] Those who study the minds of children know the nice touches which affect
their imagination, and they can, by a few words, change their feelings by the power of association.

Ferdinand Duke of Tuscany was once struck with the picture of a child crying: the painter,[67]
who was at work upon the head, wished to give the duke a proof of his skill: by a few judicious
strokes, he converted the crying into a laughing face. The duke, when he looked at the child
again, was in astonishment: the painter, to show himself master of the human countenance, restored
his first touches; and the duke, in a few moments, saw the child weeping again. A preceptor
may acquire similar power over the countenance of his pupil if he has studied the oratorical
art. By the art of oratory, we do not mean the art of misrepresentation, the art of deception;
we mean the art of showing the truth in the strongest light; of exciting virtuous enthusiasm
and generous indignation. Warm, glowing eloquence, is not inconsistent with accuracy of reasoning
and judgment. When we have expressed our admiration or abhorrence of any action or character,
we should afterwards be ready coolly to explain to our pupils the justice of our sentiments:
by this due mixture and alternation of eloquence and reasoning, we may cultivate a taste for
the moral and sublime, and yet preserve the character from any tincture of extravagant enthusiasm.
We cannot expect, that the torrent of passion should never sweep away the land-marks of exact
morality; but after its overflowing impetuosity abates, we should take a calm survey of its
effects, and we should be able to ascertain the boundaries of right and wrong with geometrical
precision.

There is a style of bombast morality affected by some authors, which must be hurtful to young
readers. Generosity and honour, courage and sentiment, are the striking qualities which seize
and enchant the imagination in romance: these qualities must be joined with justice, prudence,
economy, patience, and many humble virtues, to make a character really estimable; but these
would spoil the effect, perhaps, of dramatic exhibitions.

Children may with much greater safety see hideous, than gigantic representations of the passions.
Richard the Third excites abhorrence; but young Charles de Moor, in "The Robbers," commands
our sympathy; even the enormity of his guilt, exempts him from all ordinary modes of trial;
we forget the murderer, and see something like a hero. It is curious to observe, that the legislature
in Germany, and in England, have found it necessary to interfere as to the representation of
Captain Mac Heath and the Robbers; two characters in which the tragic and the comic muse have
had powerful effects in exciting imitation. George Barnwell is a hideous representation of
the passions, and therefore beneficial.

There are many sublime objects which do not depend upon terror, or at least upon false associations
of terror, for their effect; and there are many sublime thoughts, which have no connection
with violent passions or false ideas of morality. These are what we should select, if possible,
to raise, without inflating, the imagination. The view of the ocean, of the setting or the
rising sun, the great and bold scenes of nature, affects the mind with sublime pleasure. All
the objects which suggest ideas of vast space, or power, of the infinite duration of time,
of the decay of the monuments of ancient grandeur, or of the master-pieces of human art and
industry, have power to raise sublime sensations: but we should consider, that they raise this
pleasure only by suggesting certain ideas; those who have not the previous ideas, will not
feel the pleasure. We should not, therefore, expect that children should admire objects which
do not excite any ideas in their minds; we should wait till they have acquired the necessary
knowledge, and we should not injudiciously familiarize them with these objects.

Simplicity is a source of the sublime, peculiarly suited to children; accuracy of observation
and distinctness of perception, are essential to this species of the sublime. In Percy's collection
of ancient ballads, and in the modern poems of the Ayreshire ploughman, we may see many instances
of the effect of simplicity. To preserve our pupil's taste from a false love of ornament, he
must avoid, either in books or in conversation, all verbose and turgid descriptions, the use
of words and epithets which only fill up the measure of a line.

When a child sees any new object, or feels any new sensation, we should assist him with appropriate
words to express his thoughts and feelings: when the impression is fresh in his mind, the association,
with the precise descriptive epithets, can be made with most certainty. As soon as a child
has acquired a sufficient stock of words and ideas, he should be from time to time exercised
in description; we should encourage him to give an exact account of his own feelings in his
own words. Those parents who have been used to elegant, will not, perhaps, be satisfied with
the plain, descriptions of unpractised pupils; but they should not be fastidious; they should
rather be content with an epithet too little, than with an epithet too much; and they should
compare the child's description with the objects actually described, and not with the poems
of Thomson or Gray, or Milton or Shakespeare. If we excite our pupils to copy from the writings
of others, they never can have any originality of thought. To show parents what sort of simple
descriptions they may reasonably expect from children, we venture to produce the following
extempore description of a summer's evening, given by three children of different ages.

July 12th, 1796. Mr. ---- was walking out with his family, and he asked his children to describe
the evening just as it appeared to them. "There were three bards in Ossian's poems," said he,
"who were sent out to see what sort of a night it was; they all gave different descriptions
upon their return; you have never any of you read Ossian, but you can give us some description
of this evening; try."

B---- (a girl of 14.) "The clouds in the west are bright with the light of the sun which has
just set; a thick mist is seen in the east, and the smoke which had been heaped up in the day-time,
is now spread, and mixes with the mist all round us; the noises are heard more plainly (though
there are but few) than in the day-time; and those which are at a distance, sound almost as
near as those which are close to us; there is a red mist round the moon."

C---- (a girl of eleven years old.) "The western clouds are pink with the light of the sun
which has just set. The moon shines red through the mist. The smoke and mist make it look dark
at a distance; but the few objects near us appear plainer. If it was not for the light of the
moon, they would not be seen; but the moon is exceedingly bright; it shines upon the house
and the windows. Every thing sounds busy at a distance; but what is near us is still."

S---- (a boy between nine and ten years old). "The sun has set behind the hill, and the western
clouds are tinged with light. The mist mixes with the smoke, which rises from the heaps of
weeds which some poor man is burning to earn bread for his family. The moon through the mist
peeps her head, and sometimes she goes back, retires into her bower of clouds. The few noises
that are heard, are heard very plain--very plainly."

We should observe, that the children who attempted these little descriptions, had not been
habituated to the poetic trade; these were the only descriptions of an evening which they ever
made. It would be hurtful to exercise children frequently in descriptive composition; it would
give them the habit of exact observation, it is true, but something more is necessary to the
higher species of poetry. Words must be selected which do not represent only, but which suggest,
ideas. Minute veracity is essential to some sorts of description; but in a higher style of
poetry, only the large features characteristic of the scene must be produced, and all that
is subordinate must be suppressed. Sir Joshua Reynolds justly observes, that painters, who
aim merely at deception of the eye by exact imitation, are not likely, even in their most successful
imitations, to rouse the imagination. The man who mistook the painted fly for a real fly, only
brushed, or attempted to brush it, away. The exact representation of such a common object,
could not raise any sublime ideas in his mind; and when he perceived the deception, the wonder
which he felt at the painter's art, was a sensation no wise connected with poetic enthusiasm.

As soon as young people have collected a variety of ideas, we can proceed a step in the education
of their fancy. We should sometimes in conversation, sometimes in writing or in drawing, show
them how a few strokes, or a few words, can suggest or combine various ideas. A single expression
from Cæsar, charmed a mutinous army to instant submission. Unless the words "Roman Citizens!"
had suggested more than meets the ear, how could they have produced this wonderful effect?
The works of Voltaire and Sterne abound with examples of the skilful use of the language of
suggestion: on this the wit of Voltaire, and the humour and pathos of Sterne, securely depend
for their success. Thus, corporal Trim's eloquence on the death of his young master, owed its
effect upon the whole kitchen, including "the fat scullion, who was scouring a fish-kettle
upon her knees," to the well-timed use of the mixed language of action and suggestion.

"Are we not here now, and gone in a moment?" continues Sterne, who, in this instance, reveals
the secret of his own art.

When we point out to our pupils such examples in Sterne, we hope it will not be understood,
that we point them out to induce servile imitation. We apprehend, that the imitators of Sterne
have failed from not having discovered that the interjections and ---- dashes of this author,
are not in themselves beauties, but that they affect us by suggesting ideas. To prevent any
young writers from the intemperate or absurd use of interjections, we should show them Mr.
Horne Tooke's acute remarks upon this mode of embellishment. We do not, however, entirely agree
with this author in his abhorrence of interjections. We do not believe that "where speech can
be employed they are totally useless; and are always insufficient for the purpose of communicating
our thoughts."[68] Even if we class them, as Mr. Tooke himself does,[69] amongst "involuntary
convulsions with oral sound," such as groaning, shrieking, &c. yet they may suggest ideas,
as well as express animal feelings. Sighing, according to Mr. Tooke, is in the class of interjections,
yet the poet acknowledges the superior eloquence of sighs:

    "Persuasive words, and more persuasive sighs."

"'I wish,' said Uncle Toby, with a deep sigh (after hearing the story of Le Fevre) 'I wish,
Trim, I was asleep.'" The sigh here adds great force to the wish, and it does not mark that
Uncle Toby, from vehemence of passion, had returned to the brutal state of a savage who has
not learnt the use of speech; but, on the contrary, it suggests to the reader, that Uncle Toby
was a man of civilized humanity; not one whose compassion was to be excited merely as an animal
feeling by the actual sight of a fellow-creature in pain, but rather by the description of
the sufferer's situation.

In painting, as well as in writing, the language of suggestion affects the mind, and if any
of our pupils should wish to excel in this art, they must early attend to this principle. The
picture of Agamemnon hiding his face at the sacrifice of his daughter, expresses little to
the eye, but much to the imagination. The usual signs of grief and joy make but slight impression;
to laugh and to weep are such common expressions of delight or anguish, that they cannot be
mistaken, even by the illiterate; but the imagination must be cultivated to enlarge the sphere
of sympathy, and to render a more refined language intelligible. It is said that a Milanese
artist painted two peasants, and two country-girls, who laughed so heartily, that no one could
look at them without laughing.[70] This is an instance of sympathy unconnected with imagination.
The following is an instance of sympathy excited by imagination. When Porcia was to part from
Brutus, just before the breaking out of the civil war, "she endeavoured," says Plutarch, "as
well as possible, to conceal the sorrow that oppressed her; but, notwithstanding her magnanimity,
a picture betrayed her distress. The subject was the parting of Hector and Andromache. He was
represented delivering his son Astyanax into her arms, and the eyes of Andromache were fixed
upon him. The resemblance that this picture bore to her own distress, made Porcia burst into
tears the moment she beheld it." If Porcia had never read Homer, Andromache would not have
had this power over her imagination and her sympathy.

The imagination not only heightens the power of sympathy with the emotions of all the passions
which a painter would excite, but it is likewise essential to our taste for another class of
pleasures. Artists, who like Hogarth would please by humour, wit, and ridicule, must depend
upon the imagination of the spectators to supply all the intermediate ideas which they would
suggest. The cobweb over the poor box, one of the happiest strokes of satire that Hogarth ever
invented, would probably say nothing to the inattentive eye, or the dull imagination. A young
person must acquire the language, before he can understand the ideas, of superior minds.

The taste for poetry must be prepared by the culture of the imagination. The united powers
of music and poetry could not have triumphed over Alexander, unless his imagination had assisted
"the mighty master."

