NEW SERIES.   SATURDAY, MARCH 20, 1852.   PRICE 1-1/2d.

THINGS IN EXPECTATION.

The passing age is acknowledged to be remarkable in various respects. Great advances in matters
of practical science; a vast development of individual enterprise, and general prosperity;--at
the same time, strange retardations in things of social concern; a singular want of earnestness
in carrying out objects of undeniable utility. Much grandeur, but also much meanness of conception;
much wealth, but also much poverty. A struggle between greatness and littleness; intelligence
and ignorance; light and darkness. Sometimes we feel as if going forward, sometimes as if backward.
One day, we seem as if about to start a hundred years in advance; on the next, all is wrong
somewhere, and we feel as if hurriedly retreating to the eighteenth century!

Upon the whole, however, we are ourselves inclined to look at the bright side of affairs; and
in doing so, we are not without hope of being able to make some proselytes. Let us just see
what are the prospects of the next twenty years--a long enough space for a man to look forward
to in anything else than a dream. War, it is true, may intervene, or some other terrible catastrophe;
but we shall not admit this into our hypothesis, which proceeds on the assumption, that although
people may wrangle here and there, and here and there fly at each other's throats, still the
bulk of civilised mankind will go on tranquilly enough to present no direct barrier to the
advancing tide. Here is a list of a few trifles in expectation.

A line of communication by railway from England to the principal cities in India, interrupted
only by narrow sea-channels, and these bridged by steamboats. It will then be possible to travel
from London to Calcutta in a week.

At the same time, there will be railways to other parts of Asia--Ispahan, Bagdad, Damascus,
and Jerusalem. From the last-mentioned city, a line will probably proceed through the land
of Edom, to Suez and Cairo; thence to Alexandria. This last portion is already in hand. Think
of a railway station in the Valley of Jehoshaphat! As the course of the Jordan presents few
'engineering difficulties,' there might be a single line all the way from Nazareth to the Dead
Sea, on which a steamer might take passengers to the neighbourhood of Petra. At a point near
the shore of that mysterious sheet of water, a late traveller indicates the spot where Lot's
wife was transformed into a pillar of salt. How interesting it would be to make this a stopping-place
for tourists to view the adjacent scenery--rocky, wild, and scorched, as if fresh from the
wondrous work of devastation!

It cannot be doubted that in a period much short of twenty years, railways will have penetrated
from Berlin northwards to Russia; and therefore a communication of this kind through the whole
of Europe, even to the shores of the Indian Ocean, will be among the ordinary things of the day.

As for communication by electric telegraph, where will it not be? Every town of any importance,
from Moscow to Madras, will be connected by the marvellous wires. These wires will cross seas;
they will reach from London to New York, and from New York to far-western cities--possibly
to California. The sending of messages thousands of miles, in the twinkling of an eye, will
be an everyday affair. 'Send Dr So-and-so on by the next train,' will be the order despatched
by a family in Calcutta, when requiring medical assistance from London; and accordingly the
doctor will set off in his travels per express, from the Thames to the banks of the Ganges.
Spanning the globe by thought will then be no longer a figure of speech--it will be a reality.
Science will do it all.

Long before twenty years--most likely in two or three--a journey round the world by steam may
be achieved with comparative ease and at no great expense. Here is the way we shall go: London
to Liverpool by rail; Liverpool to Chagres by steamer; Chagres to Panama by rail; Panama to
Hong-Kong, touching at St Francisco; Hong-Kong to Sincapore, whence, if you have a fancy, you
can diverge to Borneo, Australia, and New Zealand; Sincapore to Madras, Bombay, Aden, and Suez--the
whole of the run to this point from Panama being done by steamer; Suez to Cairo, and Cairo
to Alexandria (rail in preparation); lastly, by steamer from Alexandria to England. It is deeply
interesting to watch the progress of intrusion on the Pacific. Already, within these few years,
its placid surface has been tracked with steam-navigation; of which almost every day brings
us accounts of the extension over that beautiful ocean. Long secluded, by difficulty of access
from Europe, it is now in the course of being effectually opened up by the railway across the
Isthmus of Panama. And the grandeur of this invasion by steam is beyond the reach of imagination.
Thousands of islands, clothed in gorgeous yet delicate vegetation, and enjoying the finest
climate, lie scattered like diamonds in a sea on which storms never rage--each in itself an
earthly paradise. When these islands can be reached at a moderate outlay of time, money, and
trouble, may we not expect to see them visited by the curious, and flourishing as seats of
civilised existence? There is reason to believe, that the equable climate of many of them would
prove suitable for persons affected with the complaints of northern regions; and therefore
they may become the Sanatoria of Europe. 'Gone to winter-quarters in the Pacific!'--a pleasant
notice this of a health-seeking trip twenty years hence.

It may be reasonably conjectured, that this great and varied extension of journeying round
the earth, and in all climates, will not be unaided by new discoveries in motive power. At
present, we speak of steam; but there is every probability of new agents being brought into
operation, less bulky and less costly, before twenty years elapse. Even while we write, men
of science are painfully poring over the subject, and giving indications that in chemistry
or electricity reside powers which may be advantageously pressed into the service of the traveller.
Admitting, however, that steam will be retained as the prevailing agent of locomotion, we have
grounds for anticipating improvements in its application, which will materially cheapen its
use. As regards safety to life and limb, much will be done by better arrangements. In steam-voyaging,
we may expect that means will be adopted to avert, or at least assuage, the terrible calamities
of conflagration and shipwreck--better acquaintance with the principles of spontaneous combustion,
and with the natural law of storms, being of itself a great step towards this important result.

One of the latest wonders in practical science, is a plan for cooling the air in dwellings
in hot climates; by which persons residing in India, and other oppressively warm countries,
may live habitually in an atmosphere cooled down to 60 degrees Fahrenheit, or the ordinary
heat of a pleasant day in England. The very ingenious yet simple means by which this is to
be effected, will form the subject of notice in our next number. Meanwhile, we may observe
that the discovery is due to Mr C. Piazzi Smyth, astronomer-royal for Scotland; and if perfectly
successful in practice, of which there can be no reasonable doubt, it will have a most important
effect in extending European influence over the globe.

