Yet more, while I was patiently and quietly pursuing these investigations, Colonel Bouchette
handed me a copy of the Bath (Me.) Telegraph Extra, of July 19, 1839, containing a report of
the proceedings at a public meeting held there, in consequence of the newspaper charges and
anonymous letters which had followed our adventurer to that city. It was headed "General Bratish
Eliovich (Baron Fratelin)," and was signed by Judge Clapp (Ebenezer), and by Henry Masters,
Secretary. The resolutions were brief but conclusive; and the committee that drew them up,
after a thorough investigation, were chosen from among the most respectable citizens of the
place. "Every specific charge brought forward by responsible persons," they say, "was most
completely refuted, and the truth was found entirely in accordance with the statements and
accounts of the transactions given beforehand by General Bratish"; and they declare him "entitled
to the confidence and respect of the community at large," saying that "his conduct in this
State has been that of a gentleman and man of honor."

I found too, that, go where he would, behave as he might, the moment his name appeared in the
papers, anonymous letters and paragraphs followed, denouncing him as a "pedler," as a "native
Yankee," as a thief who had robbed a fellow-boarder at Bedford Springs and then run away, taking
one of the most unfrequented roads "across the country to Cumberland, upon which no public
conveyance runs"; and yet I found, upon further inquiry, that he went off by the regular mail
coach direct to Philadelphia, drove straight to the Marshall House, where he had always put
up, (one of the largest and most respectable establishments in the city,) and entered his name
at length on the travellers' book in the usual way, and was received by McIlvaine himself and
others he had met with at Bedford Springs, on a footing of the most friendly intimacy, for
over two months after the alleged robbery and exposure.

I ascertained further, that he came to this country in the summer of 1836 on board the Statesman,
Captain Mansfield, from Gothenburg to Salem, with letters from Christopher Hughes, our Chargé
d'Affaires at Stockholm, to his son at New York, and with a Swedish passport to North America,
duly authenticated, in which he was called "the Honorable John Bratish de Fratelin"; that he
had many other letters, bills of credit, and drafts, and a large amount of money in gold,--some
"thousands of dollars" according to the testimony of Captain N. B. Mansfield himself, with
whom I communicated by letter; that he was brought on board in the Governor's barge, and was
known to have been treated with great distinction by the Swedish nobility, and to have been
so well received by Bernadotte himself, the king of Sweden, as to give rise to a report that
he was a son of Murat, the late king of Naples, whose queen he certainly resembled, as he did
others of the Bonaparte family; that on the passage he put on no airs, claimed no title, but
chose to be called plain Mr. Bratish, until his rank was discovered, and he came to be known
as General John Bratish Eliovich (the son of Elias), Baron Fratelin; that after a twelve-month's
residence at Boston and Salem, holding intercourse with what is there called the best society,
he went to Washington, where he passed the winter of 1837-38 among the fashionables and upper-tens;
that, while there, he received the provisional appointment of Consul-General for the United
States from the Regency of Greece, dated February 15, 1837, upon which he threw up an engagement
he had entered into with General Duff Greene, which secured him a respectable support, and
set about seeing the country; that after travelling from New York to New Orleans, he returned
to the North, and stopped for a month or two at Bedford Springs, about a day's journey from
Philadelphia; that being disappointed in remittances and receipts, and unable to collect moneys
he had lent to his compatriots, he could not pay his bill for six weeks' board, amounting to
fifty dollars, and went to Philadelphia, leaving with Mr. Brown, the landlord, a part of his
baggage and books, after trying in vain to dispose of a valuable platina medal; that in Philadelphia,
Mr. McIlvaine--notwithstanding the alleged robbery--lent him one hundred and sixty-five dollars,
and was constituted Vice-Consul of Greece ad interim, that is, "until the pleasure of his Majesty,
the king of Greece, should be known."

Here then was the foundation of all the attacks made upon the unhappy General; but was there
not something behind,--something below this foundation? The extraordinary case of Dr. Follen,
who was hunted from pillar to post, year after year, and wellnigh lied into his grave, shows
what may be done by conspirators and spies and slanderers, when a respectable man grows obnoxious
to a foreign power. If he is at all headstrong or imprudent, nothing can save him. Oddly enough,
it happens that one of the very papers which followed Dr. Follen whithersoever he went, like
a sleuth-hound,--the Philadelphia Gazette,--was among the bitterest and most unrelenting, of
those that assailed General Bratish.

While pursuing these investigations, I learned from what I regarded as high authority, that
General Bratish had presented an address to Lord Normanby, at the head of the whole consular
body, having been chosen for that special purpose; and I was referred to the Irish Royal Cork
Almanac for 1835, where, under the head of Foreign Consuls, I read, "Colonel John Bratish (d'Elias)
Eliovich, K. C. C., S. S., L. H., Consul-General of Greece, Mexico, Buenos Ayres, and Switzerland,
Consular Agent of Turkey."

How were these contradictions to be reconciled,--the facts proved with the stories told? If
General Bratish was the swindler and impostor they pretended, the sooner he was exposed, and
the more publicly, the better. On the contrary, if he was an honest man--a man greatly wronged
and belied, like Dr. Follen--he ought to be defended,--but how? He was poor and friendless,
and the whole newspaper press of the country was either against him, or wholly indifferent.
Had he been on trial in a court of justice, any lawyer would have defended him,--nay, for that
matter, he might have defended himself. But if he entered the field as a writer, alone against
a host, volumes would have to be written,--and who would publish them,--who read them?

That I might bring the matter to issue at once, knowing well, and from long experience, that,
when people are accused through the newspaper press of our country, they are always believed
to be guilty until they have established their innocence, I sent a communication to the Portland
Advertiser of October 15, 1839, with my name, charging upon Mr. Henry McIlvaine and Colonel
John Stille, Jr. all that I afterwards repeated with more distinctness and solemnity in "The
New World," for which I was then writing (and from which I withdrew in consequence of what
I then regarded as unfairness toward General Bratish on the part of my coadjutors, Messrs.
Park Benjamin and Epes Sargent), and arraigning both McIlvaine and Stille, as conspirators
and libellers.

One day, while this controversy was raging, the General called upon me, and begged me, for
my own satisfaction, to inquire of Baron de Mareschal, the Austrian Minister, respecting certain
charges that had just appeared against him. I consented, and immediately despatched the following
letter to the care of my friend, the Honorable George Evans, our Representative in Congress,
requesting him to see the Baron for me.

     "To HIS EXCELLENCY GENERAL BARON DE MARESCHAL, Envoy
     Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary from his Majesty the
     Emperor of Austria.

     "The undersigned is led to apply to your Excellency in behalf
     of a gentleman here, who has been assailed by a great variety
     of newspaper slanders, most of which have been triumphantly
     refuted. The gentleman referred to is known here, by his
     passports and other credentials, as John Bratish Eliovich, late
     a general in the service of her most Catholic Majesty, the
     Queen of Spain, and is now an American citizen.

     "He states--and he bids me trust confidently to the character
     of your Excellency for an early reply--that in 1828 he was at
     Rio Janeiro; that instead of 'running away,' as reported, with
     a large amount of funds belonging to his uncle, Christopher
     Bratish, he left Rio Janeiro in consequence of being appointed
     by the Emperor, Dom Pedro, Brazilian Consul to Austria, with
     the approbation and consent of your Excellency, manifested by a
     regular passport, granted by your Excellency's legation.

     "The friends of General Bratish in this region are numerous and
     respectable, and they beg your Excellency's reply to the
     following questions:--

     "Is the statement above made by General Bratish true?

     "And if your Excellency would be so kind as to say whether, in
     your opinion, there can be any foundation for the story
     respecting the 'large amount of money' said to have been
     carried off by General Bratish, when he is reported to have run
     away from Rio Janeiro, your Excellency would gladly oblige, not
     only the undersigned, but a number of other persons deeply
     interested in the character of General Bratish.

     "Meanwhile, I am with respect your Excellency's most obedient
     servant,

                              "---- ----.

     "PORTLAND, ME., April, 1840."

     "That your Excellency may know who has taken this liberty, the
     undersigned begs leave to refer you to the Hon. George Evans,
     Henry Clay, Daniel Webster, General Scott, or to any member of
     Congress from the Northern or Middle States."

Through some oversight in the transcribing, the full date of this letter does not appear; but
I soon received the following from Mr. Evans:--

              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, WASHINGTON,

                                    April 20, 1840.

     "MY DEAR SIR,--Your favor of ----, enclosing letter for General
     Mareschal was duly received, and I immediately despatched a
     messenger to deliver it to the General, with a note in your
     behalf. Yesterday the General called upon me to say that he
     felt constrained, from various circumstances, to decline a
     reply to it. He wishes you to understand that he does this with
     entire respect for yourself, whom he should be very happy
     personally to oblige. He said, if the information you seek was
     desirable for any personal or private purposes of your
     own,--such as, for instance, if any alliance was in
     contemplation with any of your friends,--he should feel bound
     to give you a reply. But he does not think that he ought to be
     drawn into a newspaper discussion, or to become the subject of
     comment or remark in such a matter. He wished me to explain his
     feelings, and hopes you will not impute his declining to any
     want of regard for you, and that you will appreciate the
     motives which govern him. I am not at liberty to detail a
     conversation I held with him on the general subject of your
     letter. He did not show it to me, though he spoke of its
     contents.

                        "Very faithfully yours,

                            "GEO. EVANS."

Very adroit and very diplomatic, to be sure, on the part of the Baron; but surely he might
have answered yes or no to the first question, without committing himself. And why not show
my letter to Mr. Evans? Taking the ground he did, however, he forced me to the following conclusion,
namely, that he could not answer No, and was afraid, for reasons of state, perhaps, to answer Yes.

And now, what was to be done? Should I prepare a memoir, setting forth all these charges, with
such refutations and such explanations as had occurred, and appeal to the public. There seemed
to be no other way left.

While I was preparing this memoir, which made a pamphlet of forty-eight large octavo pages,
with the documentary evidence in small print, General Bratish was at my elbow; and one evening,
after I had read over to him what I had written, I happened to say that I was exceedingly sorry
for the loss of his orders and decorations in Canada,--they would have been such a corroboration
of his story.

"Lost!" said he, "they are not lost."

"Where are they?"

"In the bank, with some other valuables."

"In the bank! When can you get them for me?"

"To-morrow, when the bank is open."

Shall I confess the truth? So sudden and so startling was this declaration, after what I had
seen in the papers about the loss of these badges and orders in Canada, that I began, for the
first time, to have uncomfortable suspicions. But, sure enough, the next day he brought them
all to me, together with the original contract entered into between Colonel De Lacy Evans (afterward
General Evans) and General Bratish, with the approbation of Alva, the Spanish Ambassador at
the Court of St. James, whereby it was provided that "John Bratish Eliovich, Esquire, K. C.
C., V. S. S., V. L. H., &c., &c.," should enjoy the rank, pay, and emoluments of a Major-General
in the Auxiliary Legion then raising for the Queen of Spain. This document, signed by Colonel
De Lacy Evans and Carbonel, and approved by Alva, styled him "Major-General John Bratish Eliovich,
K. C. C., V. L. H., &c., &c.," and bore the signature of General Bratish, whereby his identity
was established; and the decorations and orders put into my hands were the following: "Knight
Commander of Christ," the "Tower and Sword" of Portugal, the "Saviour" of Greece, and the "South
Star" of Brazil.

Here, certainly, was pretty strong confirmation; and yet on this very evening, my wife, who
sat where she could see all the changes of his countenance while I was writing the memoir and
occasionally asking a question without looking up, saw enough to satisfy her that Bratish was
making a fool of her husband, and, the moment his back was turned, expressed her astonishment
that a man of sense--meaning me--could be so easily imposed upon. So much for the instinct
of a woman; but more of this hereafter.

