NEW WORLDS FOR OLD

A PLAIN ACCOUNT OF MODERN SOCIALISM

BY THE SAME AUTHOR

SHORT STORIES

  The Plattner Story and others
  Tales of Space and Time
  The Stolen Bacillus and other Stories
  Twelve Stories and a Dream

ROMANCES

  The Time Machine
  The Island of Dr. Moreau
  The War of the Worlds
  The Wonderful Visit
  The Invisible Man
  The First Men in the Moon
  The Food of the Gods
  The Sea Lady
  When the Sleeper Wakes
  In the Days of the Comet

NOVELS

  Love and Mr. Lewisham
  Kipps

SOCIOLOGICAL AND SOCIALIST ESSAYS

  Anticipations
  Mankind in the Making
  A Modern Utopia
  The Future in America

NEW WORLDS FOR OLD

A PLAIN ACCOUNT OF MODERN SOCIALISM

BY

H. G. WELLS

LONDON CONSTABLE & COMPANY LTD. 1912

Published March 1908. Popular Edition Revised June 1909. Reprinted July 1909, Sept. 1922

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS

"Undiluted Atheism, theft and immorality.... I know of no language sufficiently potent to express
fully my absolute detestation of what I believe to be the most poisonous doctrine ever put
forward, namely Socialism."

                                    HIS GRACE THE DUKE OF RUTLAND.

"Let all parties then unite to defeat this insidious Socialism which is threatening the country,
and take immediate steps to expose and bring it to light. The country may truly be said to
be sleeping over a veritable volcano which the next general election may precipitate, unless
steps are taken at once to bring this nightmare into the light of day and force it out of its
creeping nocturnal habits."

               MR. DUDLEY S. A. COSBY in the Westminster Review.

"Many people think that it is possible to conduct a victorious campaign with the single watchword
'Down with Socialism.' Well, I am not fond of mere negatives. I do not like fighting an abstract
noun. My objection to Anti-Socialism as a platform is that Socialism means so many different
things. On this point I agree with Mr. Asquith. I will wait before I denounce Socialism till
I see what form it takes... Socialism is not necessarily synonymous with robbery. Correctly
used, the word only signifies a particular view of the proper relation of the State to its
citizens, a tendency to substitute public for private ownership, or to restrict the freedom
of individual enterprise in the interests of the public. But there are some forms of property
which we all admit should be public and not private, and the freedom of individual enterprise
is already limited by a hundred laws. Socialism and Individualism,--I am not fond of these
abstract phrases. There are opposing principles which enter in various proportions into the
constitution of every civilized society. It is merely a question of degree. One community is
more Socialistic than another. The same community is more Socialistic at one time than at another.
This country is far more Socialistic than it was fifty years ago, and for most of the changes
in that direction the Unionist or Tory Party is responsible."

                                                      LORD MILNER.

CONTENTS

  CHAP.

     I. THE GOOD WILL IN MAN
    II. THE FUNDAMENTAL IDEA OF SOCIALISM
   III. THE FIRST MAIN GENERALIZATION OF SOCIALISM
    IV. THE SECOND MAIN GENERALIZATION OF SOCIALISM
     V. THE SPIRIT OF GAIN AND THE SPIRIT OF SERVICE
    VI. WOULD SOCIALISM DESTROY THE HOME?
   VII. WOULD MODERN SOCIALISM ABOLISH ALL PROPERTY?
  VIII. THE MIDDLE-CLASS MAN, THE BUSINESS MAN, AND SOCIALISM
    IX. SOME COMMON OBJECTIONS TO SOCIALISM
     X. SOCIALISM A DEVELOPING DOCTRINE
    XI. REVOLUTIONARY SOCIALISM
   XII. ADMINISTRATIVE SOCIALISM
  XIII. CONSTRUCTIVE SOCIALISM
   XIV. SOME ARGUMENTS AD HOMINEM
    XV. THE ADVANCEMENT OF SOCIALISM.

NEW WORLDS FOR OLD

CHAPTER I

THE GOOD WILL IN MAN

§ 1.

The present writer has long been deeply interested in the Socialist movement in Great Britain
and America, and in all those complicated issues one lumps together as "social questions."
In the last few years he has gone into it personally and studied the Socialist movement closely
and intimately at first hand; he has made the acquaintance of many of its leaders upon both
sides of the Atlantic, joined numerous organizations, attended and held meetings, experimented
in Socialist politics. From these inquiries he has emerged with certain very definite conclusions
as to the trend and needs of social development, and these he is now rendering in this book.
He calls himself a Socialist, but he is by no means a fanatical or uncritical adherent. To
him Socialism presents itself as a very noble but a very human and fallible system of ideas
and motives, a system that grows and develops. He regards its spirit, its intimate substance
as the most hopeful thing in human affairs at the present time, but he does also find it shares
with all mundane concerns the qualities of inadequacy and error. It suffers from the common
penalty of noble propositions; it is hampered by the insufficiency of its supporters and advocates,
and by the superficial tarnish that necessarily falls in our atmosphere of greed and conflict
darkest upon the brightest things. In spite of these admissions of failure and unworthiness
in himself and those about him, he remains a Socialist.

In discussing Socialism with very various sorts of people he has necessarily had, time after
time, to encounter and frame a reply to a very simple seeming and a really very difficult question:
"What is Socialism?" It is almost like asking "What is Christianity?" or demanding to be shown
the atmosphere. It is not to be answered fully by a formula or an epigram. Again and again
the writer has been asked for some book which would set out in untechnical language, frankly
and straightforwardly, what Socialism is and what it is not, and always he has hesitated in
his reply. Many good books there are upon this subject, clear and well written, but none that
seem to tell the whole story as he knows it; no book that gives not only the outline but the
spirit, answers the main objections, clears up the chief ambiguities, covers all the ground;
no book that one can put into the hands of inquiring youth and say: "There! that will tell
you precisely the broad facts you want to know." Some day, no doubt, such a book will come.
In the meanwhile he has ventured to put forth this temporary substitute, his own account of
the faith that is in him.[1]

    [1] As I pass these proofs I am reminded that Mr. J. R.
        MacDonald has in the press Socialism (Jacks, Edinburgh)--a
        general account of the movement. From Mr. Kirkup's An
        Enquiry into Socialism and from Fabian Essays (the Fabian
        Society, London) a good idea of the general Socialist
        position may also be obtained.

Socialism, then, as he understands it, is a great intellectual process, a development of desires
and ideas that takes the form of a project--a project for the reshaping of human society upon
new and better lines. That in the ampler proposition is what Socialism claims to be. This book
seeks to expand and establish that proposition, and to define the principles upon which the
Socialist believes this reconstruction of society should go. The particulars and justification
of this project and this claim, it will be the business of this book to discuss just as plainly
as the writer can.

§ 2.

Now, because the Socialist seeks the reshaping of human society, it does not follow that he
denies it to be even now a very wonderful and admirable spectacle. Nor does he deny that for
many people life is even now a very good thing....

For his own part, though the writer is neither a very strong nor a very healthy nor a very
successful person, though he finds much unattainable and much to regret, yet life presents
itself to him more and more with every year as a spectacle of inexhaustible interest, of unfolding
and intensifying beauty, and as a splendid field for high attempts and stimulating desires.
Yet none the less is it a spectacle shot strangely with pain, with mysterious insufficiencies
and cruelties, with pitfalls into anger and regret, with aspects unaccountably sad. Its most
exalted moments are most fraught for him with the appeal for endeavour, with the urgency of
unsatisfied wants. These shadows and pains and instabilities do not, to his sense at least,
darken the whole prospect; it may be indeed that they intensify its splendours to his perceptions;
yet all these evil and ugly aspects of life come to him with an effect of challenge, as something
not to be ignored but passionately disputed, as an imperative call for whatever effort and
courage lurks in his composition. Life and the world are fine, but not as an abiding place;
as an arena--yes, an arena gorgeously curtained with sea and sky, mountains and broad prospects,
decorated with all the delicate magnificence of leaf tracery and flower petal and feather,
soft fur and the shining wonder of living skin, musical with thunder and the singing of birds;
but an arena nevertheless, an arena which offers no seats for idle spectators, in which one
must will and do, decide, strike and strike back--and presently pass away.

And it needs but a cursory view of history to realize--though all knowledge of history confirms
the generalization--that this arena is not a confused and aimless conflict of individuals.
Looked at too closely it may seem to be that--a formless web of individual hates and loves;
but detach oneself but a little, and the broader forms appear. One perceives something that
goes on, that is constantly working to make order out of casualty, beauty out of confusion;
justice, kindliness, mercy out of cruelty and inconsiderate pressure. For our present purpose
it will be sufficient to speak of this force that struggles and tends to make and do, as Good
Will. More and more evident is it, as one reviews the ages, that there is this as well as lust,
hunger, avarice, vanity and more or less intelligent fear to be counted among the motives of
mankind. This Good Will of our race, however arising, however trivial, however subordinated
to individual ends, however comically inadequate a thing it may be in this individual case
or that, is in the aggregate an operating will. In spite of all the confusions and thwartings
of life, the halts and resiliencies and the counter strokes of fate, it is manifest that in
the long run human life becomes broader than it was, gentler than it was, finer and deeper.
On the whole--and now-a-days almost steadily--things get better. There is a secular amelioration
of life, and it is brought about by Good Will working through the efforts of men.

Now this proposition lies quite open to dispute. There are people who will dispute it and make
a very passable case. One may deny the amelioration, or one may deny that it is the result
of any Good Will or of anything but quite mechanical forces. The former is the commoner argument.
The appeal is usually to what has been finest in the past, and to all that is bad and base
in the present. At once the unsoundest and the most attractive argument is to be found in the
deliberate idealization of particular ages, the thirteenth century in England, for example,
or the age of the Antonines. The former is presented with the brightness of a missal, the latter
with all the dignity of a Roman inscription. One is asked to compare these ages so delightfully
conceived, with a patent medicine vendor's advertisement or a Lancashire factory town, quite
ignoring the iniquity of mediæval law or the slums and hunger and cruelty of Imperial Rome.

But quite apart from such unsound comparisons, it is, we may admit, possible to make a very
excellent case against our general assertion of progress. One can instance a great number of
things, big and little, that have been better in past times than they are now; for example,
they dressed more sumptuously and delightfully in mediæval Venice and Florence than we do--all,
that is, who could afford it; they made quite unapproachably beautiful marble figures in Athens
in the time of Pericles; there is no comparison between the brickwork of Verona in the twelfth
century and that of London when Cannon Street Station was erected; the art of cookery declined
after the splendid period of Roman history for more than a thousand years; the Gothic architecture
of France and England exceeds in nobility and quality and aggregated beauty, every subsequent
type of structure. This much, one agrees, is true, and beyond disputing. The philosophical
thought of Athens again, to come to greater things, was at its climax, more free, more finely
expressed than that of any epoch since. And the English of Elizabeth's time was, we are told
by competent judges, a more gracious and powerful instrument of speech than in the days of
Queen Anne or of Queen Victoria.

So one might go on in regard to a vast number of things, petty and large alike; the list would
seem overwhelming until the countervailing considerations came into play. But, as a matter
of fact, there is hardly an age or a race that does not show us something better done than
ever it was before or since, because at no time has human effort ceased and absolutely failed.
Isolated eminence is no proof of general elevation. Always in this field or that, whether it
was in the binding of books or the enamelling of metal, the refinement of language or the assertion
of liberty, particular men have, by a sort of necessity, grasped at occasion, "found themselves,"
as the saying goes, and done the best that was in them. So always while man endures, whatever
else betide, one may feel assured at this or that special thing some men will find a way to
do and get to the crown of endeavour. Such considerations of decline in particular things from
the standard of the past do not really affect the general assertion of a continuous accumulating
betterment in the lot of men, do not invalidate the hopes of those who believe in the power
of men to end for ever many of the evils that now darken the world, who look to the reservoirs
of human possibility as a supply as yet scarcely touched, who make of all the splendour and
superiorities of the past no more than a bright promise and suggestion for the unborn future
our every act builds up, into which, whether we care or no, all our achievements pour.

Many evils have been overcome, much order and beauty and scope for living has been evolved
since man was a hairy savage holding scarcely more than a brute's intercourse with his fellows;
but even in the comparatively short perspective of history, one can scarcely deny a steady
process of overcoming evil. One may sneer at contemporary things; it is a fashion with that
unhappily trained type of mind which cannot appreciate without invidious comparison, so poor
in praise that it cannot admit worth without venting a compensatory envy; but of one permanent
result of progress surely every one is assured. In the matter of thoughtless and instinctive
cruelty--and that is a very fundamental matter--mankind mends steadily. I wonder and doubt
if in the whole world at any time before this an aged, ill-clad woman, or a palpable cripple
could have moved among a crowd of low-class children as free from combined or even isolated
insult as such a one would be to-day, if caught in the rush from a London Council school. Then,
for all our sins, I am sure the sense of justice is quicker and more nearly universal than
ever before. Certain grave social evils, too, that once seemed innate in humanity, have gone,
gone so effectually that we cannot now imagine ourselves subjected to them; the cruelties and
insecurities of private war, the duel, overt slavery, for example, have altogether ceased;
and in all Western Europe and America chronic local famines and great pestilences come no more.
No doubt it is still an unsatisfactory world that mars the roadside with tawdry advertisements
of drugs and food; but less than two centuries ago, remember, the place of these boards was
taken by gibbets and crow-pecked, tattered corpses swinging in the wind, and the heads of dead
gentlemen (drawn and quartered, and their bowels burnt before their eyes) rotted in the rain
on Temple Bar.

The world is now a better place for a common man than ever it was before, the spectacle wider
and richer and deeper, and more charged with hope and promise. Think of the universal things
it is so easy to ignore; of the great and growing multitude, for example, of those who may
travel freely about the world, who may read freely, think freely, speak freely! Think of the
quite unprecedented numbers of well-ordered homes and cared-for, wholesome, questioning children!
And it is not only that we have this increasing sea of mediocre well-being in which the realities
of the future are engendering, but in the matter of sheer achievement I believe in my own time.
It has been the cry of the irresponsive man since criticism began, that his own generation
produced nothing; it is a cry that I hate and deny. When the dross has been cleared away and
comparison becomes possible, I am convinced it will be admitted that in the aggregate, in philosophy
and significant literature, in architecture, painting and scientific research, in engineering
and industrial invention, in statecraft, humanity and valiant deeds, the last thirty years
of man's endeavours will bear comparison with any other period of thirty years whatever in
his history.

And this is the result of effort; things get better because men mean them to get better and
try to bring betterment about; this progress goes on because man, in spite of evil temper,
blundering and vanity, in spite of indolence and base desire, does also respond to Good Will
and display Good Will. You may declare that all the good things in life are the result of causes
over which man has no control, that in pursuit of an "enlightened self-interest" he makes things
better inadvertently. But think of any good thing you know! Was it thus it came?

§ 3.

And yet, let us not disguise it from ourselves, for all the progress one can claim, life remains
very evil; about the feet of all these glories of our time lurk darknesses.

Let me take but one group of facts that cry out to all of us--and will not cry in vain. I mean
the lives of little children that are going on now--as the reader sits with this book in his
hand. Think, for instance, of the little children who have been pursued and tormented and butchered
in the Congo Free State during the last year or so, hands and feet chopped off, little bodies
torn and thrown aside that rubber might be cheap, the tyres of our cars run smoothly, and that
detestable product of political expediency, the King of the Belgians, have his pleasures. Think
too of the fear and violence, the dirt and stress of the lives of the children who grow up
amidst the lawless internal strife of the Russian political chaos. Think of the emigrant ships
even now rolling upon the high seas, their dark, evil-smelling holds crammed with humanity,
and the huddled sick children in them--fleeing from certain to uncertain wretchedness. Think
of the dreadful tale of childish misery and suffering that goes on wherever there are not sane
factory laws; how even in so civilized a part of the world as the United States of America
(as Spargo's Bitter Cry of the Children tells in detail) thousands of little white children
of six and seven, ill fed and often cruelly handled, toil without hope.

And in all agricultural lands too, where there is no sense of education, think of the children
dragging weary feet from the filthy hovels that still house peasants the whole world over,
to work in the mire and the pitiless winds, scaring birds, bending down to plant and weed.
Even in London again, think just a little of the real significance of some facts I have happened
upon in the Report of the Education Committee of the London County Council for the year 1905.

The headmaster of one casually selected school makes a special return upon the quality of the
clothing of his 405 children. He tells of 7.4 per cent. of his boys whose clothing was "the
scantiest possible--e.g. one ragged coat buttoned up and practically nothing found beneath
it; and boots either absent or represented by a mass of rags tied upon the feet"; of 34.8 per
cent. whose "clothing was insufficient to retain animal heat and needed urgent remedy"; of
45.9 per cent, whose clothing was "poor but passable; an old and perhaps ragged suit, with
some attempt at proper underclothing--usually of flannelette"; thus leaving only 12.8 per cent.
who could, in the broadest sense, be termed "well clad."

Taking want of personal cleanliness as the next indication of neglect at home, 11 per cent.
of the boys are reported as "very dirty and verminous"; 34.7 per cent. whose "clothes and body
were dirty but not verminous"; 42.5 per cent, were "passably clean, for boys," and only "12
per cent. clean above the average."

Eleven per cent. verminous; think what it means! Think what the homes must be like from which
these poor little wretches come! Better, perhaps, than the country cottage where the cesspool
drains into the water supply and the hen-house vermin invades the home, but surely intolerable
beside our comforts! Give but a moment again to the significance of the figures I have italicized
in the table that follows, a summarized return for the year 1906 of the "Ringworm" Nurses who
visit the London Elementary Schools and inspect the children for various forms of dirt disease.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------
  |              | Number of |          |           |            |
  | Departments. | children  |  Clean.  | Partially | Verminous. |
  |              | examined. |          | cleansed. |            |
  |--------------|-----------|-----------------------------------|
  | Boys       . |   34,345  |  32,726  |     847   |    1,139   |
  | Girls      . |   36,445  |  22,476  |   4,426   |   12,003   |
  | Infants    . |   42,140  |   6,675  |   2,661   |  29,675  |
  | Mixed      . |    5,855  |   4,886  |     298   |      897   |
  | Special    . |      977  |     624  |     133   |      296   |
  |--------------|-----------|----------|-----------|------------|
  |    Total   . |  119,762  |  67,387  |   8,365   |   44,010   |
  ----------------------------------------------------------------

Does not this speak of dirt and disorder we cannot suffer to continue, of women ill trained
for motherhood and worked beyond care for cleanliness, of a vast amount of preventable suffering?
And these figures of filth and bad clothing are paralleled by others at least equally impressive,
displaying emaciation, under-nutrition, anæmia and every other painful and wretched consequence
of neglect and insufficiency. These underfed, under-clothed, undersized children are also the
backward children; they grow up through a darkened, joyless childhood into a grey, perplexing,
hopeless world that beats them down at last, after servility, after toil, after crime it may
be and despair, to death.

And while you grasp the offence of these facts, do not be carried away into supposing that
this age is therefore unprecedentedly evil. Such dirt, toil, cruelty have always been, have
been in larger measure. Don't idealize the primitive cave, the British hut, the peasant's cottage,
damp and windowless, the filth-strewn, plague-stricken, mediæval town. In spite of all these
crushed, mangled, starved, neglected little ones about the feet of this fine time, in spite
of a thousand other disorders and miseries almost as cruel, the fact remains that this age
has not only more but a larger percentage of healthy, happy, kindly-treated children than any
age since the world began; that to look back into the domestic history of other times is to
see greater squalor and more suffering.

Why! read the tombstones and monuments in any old English church, those, I mean, that date
from earlier than 1800, and you will see the history of every family, of even the prosperous
county families, laced with the deaths of infants and children. Nearly half of them died. Think,
too, how stern was the upbringing. And always before these days it seemed natural to make all
but the children of the very wealthy and very refined, fear and work from their earliest years.
There comes to us too, from these days, beautiful furniture, fine literature, paintings; but
there comes too, much evidence of harsh whippings, dark imprisonments and hardly a children's
book, hardly the broken vestige of a toy. Bad as things are, they are better--rest assured--and
yet they are still urgently bad. The greater evil of the past is no reason for contentment
with the present. But it is an earnest for hoping that our efforts, and that Good Will of which
they are a part and outcome, may still go on bearing fruit in perpetually dwindling misery.

§ 4.

It seems to me that the whole spirit and quality of both the evil and the good of our time,
and of the attitude not simply of the Socialist but of every sane reformer towards these questions,
was summarized in a walk I had a little while ago with a friend along the Thames Embankment,
from Blackfriars Bridge to Westminster. We had dined together and we went there because we
thought that with a fitful moon and clouds adrift, on a night when the air was a crystal air
that gladdened and brightened, that crescent of great buildings and steely, soft-hurrying water
must needs be altogether beautiful. And indeed it was beautiful; the mysteries and mounting
masses of the buildings to the right of us, the blurs of this coloured light or that, blue-white,
green-white, amber or warmer orange, the rich black archings of Waterloo Bridge, the rippled
lights upon the silent-flowing river, the lattice of girders and the shifting trains of Charing
Cross Bridge--their funnels pouring a sort of hot-edged moonlight by way of smoke--and then
the sweeping line of lamps, the accelerated run and diminuendo of the Embankment lamps as one
came into sight of Westminster. The big hotels were very fine, huge swelling shapes of dun
dark-grey and brown, huge shapes seamed and bursting and fenestrated with illumination, tattered
at a thousand windows with light and the indistinct, glowing suggestions of feasting and pleasure.
And dim and faint above it all and very remote was the moon's dead wan face veiled and then
displayed.

But we were dashed by an unanticipated refrain to this succession of magnificent things, and
we did not cry, as we had meant to cry, how good it was to be alive! We found something else,
something we had forgotten.

Along the Embankment, you see, there are iron seats at regular intervals, seats you cannot
lie upon because iron arm-rests prevent that, and each seat, one saw by the lamplight, was
filled with crouching and drooping figures. Not a vacant place remained, not one vacant place.
These were the homeless, and they had come to sleep here. Now one noted a poor old woman with
a shameful battered straw hat awry over her drowsing face, now a young clerk staring before
him at despair; now a filthy tramp, and now a bearded, frock-coated, collarless respectability;
I remember particularly one ghastly long white neck and white face that lopped backward, choked
in some nightmare, awakened, clutched with a bony hand at the bony throat, and sat up and stared
angrily as we passed. The wind had a keen edge that night even for us who had dined and were
well clad. One crumpled figure coughed and went on coughing--damnably.

"It's fine," said I, trying to keep hold of the effects to which this line of poor wretches
was but the selvage; "it's fine! But I can't stand this."

"It changes all that we expected," admitted my friend, after a silence.

"Must we go on--past them all?"

"Yes. I think we ought to do that. It's a lesson, perhaps--for trying to get too much beauty
out of life as it is--and forgetting. Don't shirk it!"

"Great God!" cried I. "But must life always be like this? I could die--indeed, I would willingly
jump into this cold and muddy river now, if by so doing I could stick a stiff dead hand through
all these things--into the future; a dead commanding hand insisting with a silent irresistible
gesture that this waste and failure of life should cease, and cease for ever."

"But it does cease! Each year its proportion is a little less."

I walked in silence, and my companion talked by my side.

"We go on. Here is a good thing done, and there is a good thing done. The Good Will in man----"

"Not fast enough. It goes so slowly--and in a little while we too must die----"

"It can be done," said my companion.

"It could be avoided," said I.

"It shall be in the days to come. There is food enough for all, shelter for all, wealth enough
for all. Men need only know it and will it. And yet we have this!"

"And so much like this!" said I....

So we talked and were tormented.

And I remember how later we found ourselves on Westminster Bridge, looking back upon the long
sweep of wrinkled black water that reflected lights and palaces and the flitting glow of steamboats,
and by that time we had talked ourselves past our despair. We perceived that what was splendid
remained splendid, that what was mysterious remained insoluble for all our pain and impatience.
But it was clear to us the thing for us two to go upon was not the good of the present nor
the evil, but the effort and the dream of the finer order, the fuller life, the banishment
of suffering, to come.

"We want all the beauty that is here," said my friend, "and more also. And none of these distresses.
We are here--we know not whence nor why--to want that and to struggle to get it, you and I
and ten thousand others, thinly hidden from us by these luminous darknesses. We work, we pass--whither
I know not, but out of our knowing. But we work--we are spurred to work. That yonder--those
people are the spur--for us who cannot answer to any finer appeal. Each in our measure must
do. And our reward? Our reward is our faith. Here is my creed to-night. I believe--out of me
and the Good Will in me and my kind there comes a regenerate world--cleansed of suffering and
sorrow. That is our purpose here--to forward that. It gives us work for all our lives. Why
should we ask to know more? Our errors--our sins--to-night they seem to matter very little.
If we stumble and roll in the mud, if we blunder against each other and hurt one another----"

"We have to go on," said my friend, after a pause.

We stood for a time in silence.

One's own personal problems came and went like a ripple on the water. Even that whisky dealer's
advertisement upon the southern bank became through some fantastic transformation a promise,
an enigmatical promise flashed up the river reach in letters of fire. London was indeed very
beautiful that night. Without hope she would have seemed not only as beautiful but as terrible
as a black panther crouching on her prey. Our hope redeemed her. Beyond her dark and meretricious
splendours, beyond her throned presence jewelled with links and points and cressets of fire,
crowned with stars, robed in the night, hiding cruelties, I caught a moment's vision of the
coming City of Mankind, of a city more wonderful than all my dreaming, full of life, full of
youth, full of the spirit of creation....

CHAPTER II

THE FUNDAMENTAL IDEA OF SOCIALISM

The fundamental idea upon which Socialism rests is the same fundamental idea as that upon which
all real scientific work is carried on. It is the denial that chance impulse and individual
will and happening constitute the only possible methods by which things may be done in the
world. It is an assertion that things are in their nature orderly, that things may be computed,
may be calculated upon and foreseen. In the spirit of this belief Science aims at a systematic
knowledge of material things. "Knowledge is power," knowledge that is frankly and truly exchanged--that
is the primary assumption of the New Atlantis which created the Royal Society and the organization
of research. The Socialist has just that same faith in the order, the knowableness of things
and the power of men in co-operation to overcome chance; but to him, dealing as he does with
the social affairs of men, it takes the form not of schemes for collective research but for
collective action and the creation of a comprehensive design for all the social activities
of man. While Science gathers knowledge, Socialism in an entirely harmonious spirit criticizes
and develops a general plan of social life. Each seeks to replace disorder by order.

Each of these systems of ideas has, of course, its limits; we know in matters of material science
that no calculated quantity is ever exact, no outline without a fogging at the edge, no angle
without a curve at the apex; and in social affairs also, there must needs always be individuality
and the unexpected and incalculable. But these things do not vitiate the case for a general
order, any more than the different sizes and widths and needs of the human beings who travel
prevent our having our railway carriages and seats and doors of a generally convenient size,
nor our sending everybody over the same gauge of rail.

