He went to harness Betsy, and the Girl washed the dishes, straightened the rooms, and collected
her drawing material. Then she walked up the hill, wearing a shirt and short skirt of khaki,
stout shoes, and a straw hat that shaded her face. She climbed into the wagon, laid the drawing
box on the seat, and caught the lines as the Harvester flung them to her. He went swinging
ahead, Belshazzar to heel, the Girl driving after. The white pigeons circled above, and every
day Ajax allowed his curiosity to overcome his temper, and followed a little farther.

"Whoa, Betsy!" The Girl tugged at the lines; but Betsy took the bit between her teeth, and
plodded after the Harvester. She pulled with all her might, but her strength was not nearly
sufficient to stop the stubborn animal.

"Whoa, David!" cried the Girl.

"What is it?" the Harvester turned.

"Won't you please wait until I can take off my hat? I love to ride bareheaded through the woods,
and Betsy won't stop until you do, no matter how hard I pull."

"Betsy, you're no lady!" said the Harvester. "Why don't you stop when you're told?"

"I shan't waste any more strength on her," said the Girl. "Hereafter I shall say, 'Gee, David,'
'Haw, David,' 'Whoa, David,' and then she will do exactly as you."

The Harvester stopped half way up the hill, and beside a large, shaded bed spread the rug,
and set up the little table and chair for the Girl.

"Want a plant to draw?" he asked. "This is very important to us. It has a string of names as
long as a princess, but I call it goldenseal, because the roots are yellow. The chemists ask
for hydrastis. That sounds formidable, but it's a cousin of buttercups. The woods of Ohio and
Indiana produce the finest that ever grew, but it is so nearly extinct now that the trade can
be supplied by cultivation only. I suspect I'm responsible for its disappearance around here.
I used to get a dollar fifty a pound, and most of my clothes and books when a boy I owe to
it. Now I get two for my finest grade; that accounts for the size of these beds."

"It's pretty!" said the Girl, studying a plant averaging a foot in height. On a slender, round,
purplish stem arose one big, rough leaf, heavily veined, and having from five to nine lobes.
Opposite was a similar leaf, but very small, and a head of scarlet berries resembling a big
raspberry in shape. The Harvester shook the black woods soil from the yellow roots, and held
up the plant.

"You won't enjoy the odour," he said.

"Well I like the leaves. I know I can use them some way. They are so unusual. What wonderful
colour in the roots!"

"One of its names is Indian paint," explained the Harvester. "Probably it furnished the squaws
of these woods with colouring matter. Now let's see what we can get out of it. You draw the
plant and I'll dig the roots."

For a time the Girl bent over her work and the Harvester was busy. Belshazzar ranged the woods
chasing chipmunks. The birds came asking questions. When the drawing was completed, other subjects
were found at every turn, and the Girl talked almost constantly, her face alive with interest.
The May-apple beds lay close, and she drew from them. She learned the uses and prices of the
plant, and also made drawings of cohosh, moonseed and bloodroot. That was so wonderful in its
root colour, the Harvester filled the little cup with water and she began to paint. Intensely
absorbed she bent above the big, notched, silvery leaves and the blood-red roots, testing and
trying to match them exactly. Every few minutes the Harvester leaned over her shoulder to see
how she was progressing and to offer suggestions. When she finished she picked up a trailing
vine of moonseed.

"You have this on the porch," she said. "I think it is lovely. There is no end to the beautiful
combinations of leaves, and these are such pretty little grape-like clusters; but if you touch
them the slightest you soil the wonderful surface."

"And that makes the fairies very sad," said the Harvester. "They love that vine best of any,
because they paint its fruit with the most care. 'Bloom' the scientists call it. You see it
on cultivated plums, grapes, and apples, but never in any such perfection as on moonseed and
black haws in the woods. You should be able to design a number of pretty things from the cohosh
leaves and berries, too. You scarcely can get a start this fall, but early in the spring you
can begin, and follow the season. If your work comes out well this winter, I'll send some of
it to the big publishing houses, and you can make book and magazine covers and decorations,
if you would like."

"'If I would like!' How modest! You know perfectly well that if I could make a design that
would be accepted, and used on a book or magazine, I would almost fly. Oh do you suppose I could?"

"I don't 'suppose' anything about it, I know," said the Harvester. "It is not possible that
the public can be any more tired of wild roses, golden-rod, and swallows than the poor art
editors who accept them because they can't help themselves. Dangle something fresh and new
under their noses and see them snap. The next time I go to Onabasha I'll get you some popular
magazines, and you can compare what is being used with what you see here, and judge for yourself
how glad they would be for a change. And potteries, arts and crafts shops, and wall paper factories,
they'd be crazy for the designs I could furnish them. As for money, there's more in it than
the herbs, if I only could draw."

"I can do that," said the Girl. "Trail the vine and give me an idea how to scale it. I'll just
make studies now, and this winter I'll conventionalize them and work them into patterns. Won't
that be fun?"

"That's more than fun, Ruth," said the Harvester solemnly. "That is creation. That touches
the provinces of the Almighty. That is taking His unknown wonders and making them into pleasure
and benefit for thousands, not to mention filling your face with awe divine, and lighting your
eyes with interest and ambition. That is life, Ruth. You are beginning to live right now."

"I see," said the Girl. "I understand! I am!"

"You get your subjects now. When the harvest is over I'll show you what I have in my head,
and before Christmas the fun will begin."

"What next?"

"Sketch a sarsaparilla plant and this yam vine. It grows on your veranda too----the rattle
box, you remember. The leaves and seeding arrangements are wonderful. You can do any number
of things with them, and all will be new."

He called her attention to and brought her samples of ginger leaves, Indian hemp, queen-of-the-meadow,
cone-flower, burdock, baneberry, and Indian turnip, as he harvested them in turn. When they
came to the large beds of orange pleurisy root the Girl cried out with pleasure.

"We will take its prosaic features first," said the Harvester. "It is good medicine and worth
handling. Forget that! The Bird Woman calls it butterfly flower. That's better. Now try to
analyze a single bloom of this gaudy mass, and you will see why there's poetry coming."

He knelt beside the Girl, separating the blooms and pointing out their marvellous colour and
construction. She leaned against his shoulder, and watched with breathless interest. As his
bare head brought its mop of damp wind-rumpled hair close, she ran her fingers through it,
and with her handkerchief wiped his forehead.

"Sometimes I almost wish you'd get sick," she said irrelevantly.

"In the name of common sense, why?" demanded the Harvester.

"Oh it must be born in the heart of a woman to want to mother something," answered the Girl.
"I feel sometimes as if I would like to take care of you, as if you were a little fellow. David,
I know why your mother fought to make you the man she desired. You must have been charming
when small. I can shut my eyes and just see the boy you were, and I should have loved you as
she did."

"How about the man I am?" inquired the Harvester promptly. "Any leanings toward him yet, Ruth?"

"It's getting worser and worser every day and hour," said the Girl. "I don't understand it
at all. I wouldn't try to live without you. I don't want you to leave my sight. Everything
you do is the way I would have it. Nothing you ever say shocks or offends me. I'd love to render
you any personal service. I want to take you in my arms and hug you tight half a dozen times
a day as a reward for the kind and lovely things you do for me."

A dull red flamed up the neck and over the face of the Harvester. One arm lifted to the chair
back, the other dropped across the table so that the Girl was almost encircled.

"For the love of mercy, Ruth, why haven't I had a hint of this before?" he cried.

"You said you'd hate me. You said you'd drop me into the deepest part of the lake if I deceived
you; and if I have to tell the truth, why, that is all of it. I think it is nonsense about
some wonderful feeling that is going to take possession of your heart when you love any one.
I love you so much I'd gladly suffer to save you pain or sorrow. But there are no thrills;
it's just steady, sober, common sense that I should love you, and I do. Why can't you be satisfied
with what I can give, David?"

"Because it's husks and ashes," said the Harvester grimly. "You drive me to desperation, Ruth.
I am almost wild for your love, but what you offer me is plain, straight affection, nothing
more. There isn't a trace of the feeling that should exist between man and wife in it. Some
men might be satisfied to be your husband, and be regarded as a father or brother. I am not.
The red bird didn't want a sister, Ruth, he was asking for a mate. So am I. That's as plain
as I know how to put it. There is some way to awaken you into a living, loving woman, and,
please God, I'll find it yet, but I'm slow about it; there's no question of that. Never you
mind! Don't worry! Some of these days I have faith to believe it will sweep you as a tide sweeps
the shore, and then I hope God will be good enough to let me be where you will land in my arms."

The Girl sat looking at him between narrowed lids. Suddenly she took his head between her hands,
drew his face to hers and deliberately kissed him. Then she drew away and searched his eyes.

"There!" she challenged. "What is the matter with that?"

The Harvester's colour slowly faded to a sickly white.

"Ruth, you try me almost beyond human endurance," he said. "'What's the matter with that?'"
He arose, stepped back, folded his arms, and stared at her. "'What's the matter with that?'"
he repeated. "Never was I so sorely tempted in all my life as I am now to lie to you, and say
there is nothing, and take you in my arms and try to awaken you to what I mean by love. But
suppose I do----and fail! Then comes the agony of slow endurance for me, and the possibility
that any day you may meet the man who can arouse in you the feelings I cannot. That would mean
my oath broken, and my heart as well; while soon you would dislike me beyond tolerance, even.
I dare not risk it! The matter is, that was the loving caress of a ten-year-old girl to a big
brother she admired. That's all! Not much, but a mighty big defect when it is offered a strong
man as fuel on which to feed consuming passion."

"Consuming passion," repeated the Girl. "David you never lie, and you never exaggerate. Do
you honestly mean that there is something----oh, there is! I can see it! You are really suffering,
and if I come to you, and try my best to comfort you, you'll only call it baby affection that
you don't want. David, what am I going to do?"

"You are going to the cabin," said the Harvester, "and cook us a big supper. I am dreadfully
hungry. I'll be along presently. Don't worry, Ruth, you are all right! That kiss was lovely.
Tell me that you are not angry with me."

Her eyes were wet as she smiled at him.

"If there is a bigger brute than a man anywhere on the footstool, I should like to meet it,"
said the Harvester, "and see what it appears like. Go along, honey; I'll be there as soon as
I load."

He drove to the dry-house, washed and spread his reaping on the big trays, fed the stock, dressed
in the white clothing and entered the kitchen. That the Girl had been crying was obvious, but
he overlooked it, helped with the work, and then they took a boat ride. When they returned
he proposed that she should select her favourite likeness of her mother, and the next time
he went to the city he would take it with his, and order the enlargements he had planned. To
save carrying a lighted lamp into the closet he brought her little trunk to the living-room,
where she opened it and hunted the pictures. There were several, and all of them were of a
young, elegantly dressed woman of great beauty. The Harvester studied them long.

"Who was she, Ruth?" he asked at last.

"I don't know, and I have no desire to learn."

"Can you explain how the girl here represented came to marry a brother of Henry Jameson?"

"Yes. I was past twelve when my father came the last time, and I remember him distinctly. If
Uncle Henry were properly clothed, he is not a bad man in appearance, unless he is very angry.
He can use proper language, if he chooses. My father was the best in him, refined and intensified.
He was much taller, very good looking, and he dressed and spoke well. They were born and grew
to manhood in the East, and came out here at the same time. Where Uncle Henry is a trickster
and a trader in stock, my father went a step higher, and tricked and traded in men----and women!
Mother told me this much once. He saw her somewhere and admired her. He learned who she was,
went to her father's law office and pretended he was representing some great business in the
West, until he was welcomed as a promising client. He hung around and when she came in one
day her father was forced to introduce them. The remainder is the same world-old story----a
good looking, glib-tongued man, plying every art known to an expert, on an innocent girl."

"Is he dead, Ruth?"

"We thought so. We hoped so."

"Your mother did not feel that her people might be suffering for her as she was for them?"

"Not after she appealed to them twice and received no reply."

"Perhaps they tried to find her. Maybe she has a father or mother who is longing for word from
her now. Are you very sure you are right in not wanting to know?"

"She never gave me a hint from which I could tell who or where they were. In so gentle a woman
as my mother that only could mean she did not want them to know of her. Neither do I. This
is the photograph I prefer; please use it."

"I'll put back the trunk in the morning, when I can see better," said the Harvester.

The Girl closed it, and soon went to bed. But there was no sleep for the man. He went into
the night, and for hours he paced the driveway in racking thought. Then he sat on the step
and looked at Belshazzar before him.

