To supply their places, we shipped the following persons, viz: Silas Payne, John Oliver, Anthony
Hanson, a native of Oahu, Wm. Humphries, a black man, and steward, and Thomas Lilliston.--Having
accommodated ourselves with as many vegetables and much fruit as could be preserved, we again
put to sea, fondly anticipating a successful cruise, and a speedy and happy meeting with our
friends. After leaving Oahu we ran to the south of the Equator, and after cruising a short
time for whales without much success, we steered for Fannings Island, which lies in lat. 3,
49 N. and long. 158, 29 W. While cruising off this Island an event occurred which, whether
we consider the want of motives, or the cold blooded and obstinate cruelty with which it was
perpetrated, has not often been equalled.--We speak of the want of motives, because, although
some occurrences which we shall mention, had given the crew some ground for dissatisfaction,
there had been no abuse or severity which could in the least degree excuse or palliate so barbarous
a mode of redress and revenge. During our cruise to Japan the season before, many complaints
were uttered by the crew among themselves, with respect to the manner and quantity in which
they received their meat, the quantity sometimes being more than sufficient for the number
of men, and at others not enough to supply the ship's company; and it is fair to presume, that
the most dissatisfied, deserted the ship at Oahu.

But the reader will no doubt consider it superfluous for us to attempt an unrequired vindication
of the conduct of the officers of the Globe whose aim was to maintain a correct discipline,
which should result in the furtherance of the voyage and be a benefit to all concerned, more
especially when he is informed, that part of the men shipped at Oahu, in the room of the deserters,
were abandoned wretches, who frequently were the cause of severe reprimands from the officers,
and in one instance one of them received a severe flogging. The reader will also please to
bear in mind, that Samuel B. Comstock, the ringleader of the mutiny, was an officer, (being
a boat-steerer,) and as is customary, ate in the cabin. The conduct and deportment of the Captain
towards this individual, was always decorous and gentlemanly, a proof of intentions long premeditated
to destroy the ship. Some of the crew were determined to leave the ship provided she touched
at Fannings Island, and we believe had concerted a plan of escape, but of which the perpetration
of a deed chilling to humanity, precluded the necessity. We were at this time in company with
the ship Lyra, of New-Bedford, the Captain of which, had been on board the Globe during the
most of the day, but had returned in the evening to his own ship. An agreement had been made
by him with the Captain of the Globe, to set a light at midnight as a signal for tacking. It
may not be amiss to acquaint the reader of the manner in which whalemen keep watch during the
night. They generally carry three boats, though some carry four, five, and sometimes six, the
Globe, however, being of the class carrying three. The Captain, mate, and second mate stand
no watch except there is blubber to be boiled; the boat-steerers taking charge of the watch
and managing the ship with their respective boats crews, and in this instance dividing the
night into three parts, each taking a third. It so happened that Smith after keeping the first
watch, was relieved by Comstock, (whom we shall call by his sir name in contradistinction to
his brother George) and the waist boat's crew, and the former watch retired below to their
births and hammocks. George Comstock took the helm, and during his trick, received orders from
his brother to "keep the ship a good full," swearing that the ship was too nigh the wind. When
his time at the helm had expired he took the rattle, (an instrument used by whalemen, to announce
the expiration of the hour, the watch, &c.) and began to shake it, when Comstock came to him,
and in the most peremptory manner, ordered him to desist, saying "if you make the least damn
bit of noise I'll send you to hell!" He then lighted a lamp and went into the steerage. George
becoming alarmed at this conduct of his unnatural brother, again took the rattle for the purpose
of alarming some one; Comstock arrived in time to prevent him, and with threatenings dark and
diabolical, so congealed the blood of his trembling brother, that even had he possessed the
power of alarming the unconscious and fated victims below, his life would have been the forfeit
of his temerity!

Comstock, now laid something heavy upon a small work bench near the cabin gangway, which was
afterwards found to be a boarding knife. It is an instrument used by whalers to cut the blubber
when hoisting it in, is about four feet in length, two or three inches wide, and necessarily
kept very sharp, and for greater convenience when in use, is two edged.

In giving a detail of this chilling transaction, we shall be guided by the description given
of it by the younger Comstock, who, as has been observed, was upon deck at the time, and afterwards
learned several particulars from his brother, to whom alone they could have been known. Comstock
went down into the cabin, accompanied by Silas Payne or Paine, of Sag-Harbour, John Oliver,
of Shields, Eng., William Humphries, (the steward) of Philadelphia, and Thomas Lilliston; the
latter, however, went no farther than the cabin gangway, and then ran forward and turned in.
According to his own story he did not think they would attempt to put their designs in execution,
until he saw them actually descending into the cabin, having gone so far, to use his own expression,
to show himself as brave as any of them. But we believe he had not the smallest idea of assisting
the villains. Comstock entered the cabin so silently as not to be perceived by the man at the
helm, who was first apprised of his having begun the work of death, by the sound of a heavy
blow with an axe, which he distinctly heard.

The Captain was asleep in a hammock, suspended in the cabin, his state room being uncomfortably
warm; Comstock approaching him with the axe, struck him a blow upon the head, which was nearly
severed in two by the first stroke! After repeating the blow, he ran to Payne, who it seems
was stationed with the before mentioned boarding knife, to attack the mate, as soon as the
Captain was killed. At this instant, Payne making a thrust at the mate, he awoke, and terrified,
exclaimed, "what! what! what!" "Is this----Oh! Payne! Oh! Comstock!" "Don't kill me, don't;"
"have I not always----" Here Comstock interrupted him, saying, "Yes! you have always been a
d--d rascal; you tell lies of me out of the ship will you? It's a d--d good time to beg now,
but you're too late," here the mate sprang, and grasped him by the throat. In the scuffle,
the light which Comstock held in his hand was knocked out, and the axe fell from his hand;
but the grasp of Mr. Beetle upon his throat, did not prevent him from making Payne understand
that his weapon was lost, who felt about until he found it, and having given it to Comstock,
he managed to strike him a blow upon the head, which fractured his skull; when he fell into
the pantry where he lay groaning until despatched by Comstock! The steward held a light at
this time, while Oliver put in a blow as often as possible!

The second and third mates, fastened in their state rooms, lay in their births listening, fearing
to speak, and being ignorant of the numerical strength of the mutineers, and unarmed, thought
it best to wait the dreadful issue, hoping that their lives might yet be spared.

Comstock leaving a watch at the second mate's door, went upon deck to light another lamp at
the binnacle, it having been again accidentally extinguished. He was there asked by his terrified
brother, whose agony of mind we will not attempt to portray, if he intended to hurt Smith,
the other boat-steerer. He replied that he did; and inquired where he was. George fearing that
Smith would be immediately pursued, said he had not seen him.--Comstock then perceiving his
brother to be shedding tears, asked sternly, "What are you crying about?" "I am afraid," replied
George, "that they will hurt me!" "I will hurt you," said he, "if you talk in that manner!"

But the work of death was not yet finished. Comstock, took his light into the cabin, and made
preparations for attacking the second and third mates, Mr. Fisher, and Mr. Lumbert. After loading
two muskets, he fired one through the door, in the direction as near as he could judge of the
officers, and then inquired if either was shot! Fisher replied, "yes, I am shot in the mouth!"
Previous to his shooting Fisher, Lumbert asked if he was going to kill him? To which he answered
with apparent unconcern, "Oh no, I guess not."

They now opened the door, and Comstock making a pass at Mr. Lumbert, missed him, and fell into
the state room. Mr. Lumbert collared him, but he escaped from his hands. Mr. Fisher had got
the gun, and actually presented the bayonet to the monster's heart! But Comstock assuring him
that his life should be spared if he gave it up, he did so; when Comstock immediately ran Mr.
Lumbert through the body several times!!

He then turned to Mr. Fisher, and told him there was no hope for him!!--"You have got to die,"
said he, "remember the scrape you got me into, when in company with the Enterprise of Nantucket."
The "scrape" alluded to, was as follows. Comstock came up to Mr. Fisher to wrestle with him.--Fisher
being the most athletick of the two, handled him with so much ease, that Comstock in a fit
of passion struck him. At this Fisher seized him, and laid him upon deck several times in a
pretty rough manner.

Comstock then made some violent threats, which Fisher paid no attention to, but which now fell
upon his soul with all the horrors of reality. Finding his cruel enemy deaf to his remonstrances,
and entreaties, he said, "If there is no hope, I will at least die like a man!" and having
by order of Comstock, turned back too, said in a firm voice, "I am ready!!"

Comstock then put the muzzle of the gun to his head, and fired, which instantly put an end
to his existence!--Mr. Lumbert, during this time, was begging for life, although no doubt mortally
wounded. Comstock, turned to him and said, "I am a bloody man! I have a bloody hand and will
be avenged!" and again run him through the body with a bayonet! He then begged for a little
water; "I'll give you water," said he, and once more plunging the weapon in his body, left
him for dead!

Thus it appears that this more than demon, murdered with his own hand, the whole! Gladly would
we wash from "memory's waste" all remembrance of that bloody night. The compassionate reader,
however, whose heart sickens within him, at the perusal, as does ours at the recital, of this
tale of woe, will not, we hope, disapprove our publishing these melancholy facts to the world.
As, through the boundless mercy of Providence, we have been restored, to the bosom of our families
and homes, we deemed it a duty we owe to the world, to record our "unvarnished tale."

CHAPTER II.

Smith, the other boat-steerer, who had been marked as one of the victims, on hearing the noise
in the cabin, went aft, apprehending an altercation between the Captain and some of the other
officers, little dreaming that innocent blood was flowing in torrents. But what was his astonishment,
when he beheld Comstock, brandishing the boarding knife, and heard him exclaim, "I am the bloody
man, and will have revenge!" Horror struck, he hurried forward, and asked the crew in the forecastle,
what he should do. Some urged him to secrete himself in the hold, others to go aloft until
Comstock's rage should be abated; but alas! the reflection that the ship afforded no secure
hiding place, determined him to confront the ringleader, and if he could not save his life
by fair means, to sell it dearly! He was soon called for by Comstock, who upon meeting him,
threw his bloody arms around his neck, and embracing him, said, "you are going to be with us,
are you not?" The reader will discover the good policy of Smith when he unhesitatingly answered,
"Oh, yes, I will do any thing you require."

All hands were now called to make sail, and a light at the same time was set as a signal for
the Lyra to tack;--while the Globe was kept upon the same tack, which very soon caused a separation
of the two ships. All the reefs were turned out, top-gallant-sails set, and all sail made on
the ship, the wind being quite light.

The mutineers then threw the body of the Captain overboard, after wantonly piercing his bowels
with a boarding knife, which was driven with an axe, until the point protruded from his throat!!
In Mr. Beetle, the mate, the lamp of life had not entirely gone out, but he was committed to
the deep.

Orders were next given to have the bodies of Mr. Fisher, and Mr. Lumbert brought up. A rope
was fastened to Fisher's neck, by which he was hauled upon deck. A rope was made fast to Mr.
Lumbert's feet, and in this way was he got upon deck, but when in the act of being thrown from
the ship, he caught the plank-shear; and appealed to Comstock, reminding him of his promise
to save him, but in vain; for the monster forced him from his hold, and he fell into the sea!
As he appeared to be yet capable of swimming, a boat was ordered to be lowered, to pursue and
finish him, fearing he might be picked up by the Lyra; which order was as soon countermanded
as given, fearing, no doubt, a desertion of his murderous companions.

We will now present the reader, with a journal of our passage to the Mulgrave Islands, for
which groupe we shaped our course.

1824, Jan. 26th. At 2 A. M. from being nearly calm a light breeze sprung up, which increased
to a fresh breeze by 4 A. M. This day cleaned out the cabin, which was a scene of blood and
destruction of which the recollection at this day chills the blood in our veins.--Every thing
bearing marks of the murder, was brought on deck and washed.

Lat. 5° 50' N. Long. 159° 13' W.

Jan. 27th. These twenty-four hours commenced with moderate breezes from the eastward. Middle
and latter part calm. Employed in cleaning the small arms which were fifteen in number, and
making cartridge boxes.

Lat. 3° 45' N. Long. 160° 45' W.

Jan. 28. This day experienced fine weather, and light breezes from N. by W. The black steward
was hung for the following crime.

George Comstock who was appointed steward after the mutiny, and business calling him into the
cabin, he saw the former steward, now called the purser, engaged in loading a pistol. He asked
him what he was doing that for. His reply was, "I have heard something very strange, and I'm
going to be ready for it." This information was immediately carried to Comstock, who called
to Payne, now mate, and bid him follow him.

On entering the cabin they saw Humphreys, still standing with the pistol in his hand. On being
demanded what he was going to do with it, he said he had heard something which made him afraid
of his life!

