The wife Penelope is also having her period of anxiety and of weeping for her husband; she
prays to Diana and wishes for death, being awake. But when asleep, her unconscious nature asserts
itself: "This very night a man like him lay by me, my heart rejoiced, I thought it no dream."
Such is the contrast between her waking and her sleeping state; in the one her skepticism,
in the other her instinct manifests itself.

II. We now pass to quite a full survey of the servants of the household. Female slaves have
to grind the corn to make bread for the Suitors; one of these slaves is still at her task,
though past daybreak, she being the weakest of all. Standing at her hand-mill she utters the
ominous word: "O Zeus, ruler, fulfill this wish for me wretched: may the present feast of the
Suitors be their last, they who have loosed my limbs with painful toil in grinding their barley
meal!" Thus the prayer of the poor overworked slave-woman calls down the vengeance of the Gods,
giving the word of friendly omen to the avenger. Certainly a most powerful motive; but again
we think, how modern it sounds! Yet ancient too the thought must have been, for here it stands
in Homer truly prophetic of many things.

Eurycleia is the controlling power among the handmaids, of whom there was a large number; "twenty
went to the spring to fetch water, while others were busy about the house," preparing for the
coming banquet. The swineherd Eumæus came with three fat porkers; his disloyal counterpart,
Melanthius, also appeared with goats for the feast; both again show their character to Ulysses.
The cowherd Philoetius is now introduced, in a full account; he is one of the faithful, has
charity for the beggar, and shows his fidelity in a number of points. The beggar assures him:
"Ulysses will return, thou shalt see him slaying those Suitors," whereupon Philoetius volunteers
his aid.

Thus the forces are assembling; the two sides, loyal and disloyal, are separating more and
more, preparatory to the grand struggle. Ulysses in his disguise has discovered those upon
whom he can depend. But the banquet is ready, the Suitors, who have been plotting against the
life of Telemachus, enter; they are divided among themselves, and can show no concerted action.

III. This banquet is noticeable, inasmuch as Telemachus asserts the mastery in his own house
and defies the Suitors. He honors the beggar as his guest, and gives warning that nobody insult
the poor stranger, "lest there be trouble." A number of Suitors show their ill feeling; one
of them, named Ktesippus, flings a bullock's foot at Ulysses "for a hospitable present," at
which the latter "smiled in sardonic fashion," but said nothing. Telemachus, however, reproves
the agressor with great spirit, and asserts himself anew against all deeds of violence. One
of the more reasonable Suitors, Agelaus, makes a speech, which commends Telemachus but insists
upon his ordering his mother "to marry the man who is best and who will give most presents."
In reply Telemachus declares that he does not hinder the choice of his mother, but that he
will not force her to marry. "That may God never bring about." (Theos without article.)

