PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 102.

May 28, 1892.

VENICE RESERVED.

(A SKETCH FROM A NUMBERED STALL AT OLYMPIA.)

On the Stage, the Scene represents "A Public Place before the Arsenal," where a number of artisans
are apparently busily engaged in making horse-shoes on cold anvils in preparation for the launch
of "The Adriatica." On extreme R. enter Antonio, who expresses commercial embarrassment by
going through a sort of dumb-bell exercise on a bridge. On extreme L. enter Bassanio, Lorenzo,
and Antonio, who observe, with mild surprise, that there are several other persons present,
and proceed to point out objects of local interest to one another with the officious amiability
of persons in the foreground of hotel advertisements. (Here a Small Boy in a box, who has an
impression he is going to see a Pantomime, inquires audibly "when the Clown Part will begin?"
and has to be answered and consoled.) Bassanio perceives Antonio afar off, and advances towards
him with stately deliberation, throwing out signals with one arm at intervals; Antonio goes
to meet him; they shake each other by both hands with affectionate cordiality, and then turn
their backs on one another, as though, on reflection, they found they had less to say than
they had imagined. Presently Bassanio recollects why he wanted to see Antonio so particularly,
and, by describing a circle in the air, and pointing from the electric lights above to the
balcony stalls in front, and tapping his belt, puts Antonio at once in possession of his chronic
impecuniosity, his passion for Portia, and his need for a small temporary loan. Antonio curls
up his fists, raises them to the level of his ears, and then pretends to take his heart out
of his doublet and throw it at Bassanio, who fields it with graceful dexterity, instantly comprehending
with Italian intuition that his friend is, like himself, rather pressed for ready money, but
is prepared to back a bill for any amount. Shylock passes that way, and is introduced by Antonio
as a gentleman in the city who is in the habit of making advances on personal security without
inquiry. Shylock extracts imaginary ink from his chest, and writes with one hand on the palm
of the other, and cringingly produces a paper-knife--whereupon the transaction is complete,
and the parties, becoming aware that a Grand Triumphal Procession is waiting to come in, and
that they are likely to be in the way, tactfully suggest to one another the propriety of retiring.
After the Procession, Valentina, "the lovely daughter of the proud Visconti" embarks on a barge
with her maidens to meet her betrothed.

(In the Stalls, a Lady with a Catalogue, who hasn't been here before, mistakes this proceeding
for "The Launch of the Adriatica," but is set right by a friend who has, and is consequently
able to inform her that Valentina is Portia on her way to plead against Shylock.)

A mimic battle takes place on a bridge--i.e., rival factions shake their fists with prudent
defiance over one another's shoulders. (An Old Lady in the Balcony, who has been watching this
desperate encounter, finds that she has missed a very important Scene between Shylock and Jessica
at the other end of the stage, and remorsefully resolves to be more observant in future, as
the Scene changes to "Portia's Palatial Home.") Portia enters (the Lady in the Stalls, who
has been here before, tells her companion that Portia's dress was "lovely when it was clean"),
and greets her guests by extending both arms and inviting them to inspect the palms of her
hands, thereby intimating that the abundance of canopied recesses, and the absence of any furniture
to sit down upon, is due to the fact that the apartment has been recently cleared for a parlour
game. The company express a well-bred gratification by bowing. Enter the Prince of Morocco
(who is of course identified by various Spectators in the Stalls without Catalogues as "Othello,"
or "the Duke of Thingumbob--you know the chap I mean"), followed by his retinue; he kisses
Portia's hand, as she explains to him, the Prince of Arragon, and Bassanio, the rules of the
game in three simple gestures. They reply, by flourishes, that they have frequently played
it at home, and promise faithfully not to cheat. The three caskets are brought in and placed
on a table; the Prince of Morocco is the first player, and walks towards them very slowly,
stopping at every ten paces and signalling to Portia that he is all right so far, and that
she is not to be at all uneasy on his account. On coming in sight of the caskets, he pauses
and turns to the audience, as if it had only just occurred to him that the odds were two to
one against him, and he must be careful. Presently he jerks his right arm above his head and
strikes his forehead, to indicate a happy thought, rushes at the golden casket, opens it, and
slams the lid disgustedly. After which he signals to Portia that it is not such an amusing
game as he thought, and he doesn't mean to play any more, beckons to his retinue and goes off,
throwing his cloak over his shoulder with a gesture of manly and not unnatural annoyance. The
Prince of Arragon tries the silver casket next, with similar unsuccess. Then Bassanio--with
an elaborate pretence of uncertainty, considering he can hardly have helped witnessing the
proceedings--advances to the caskets, in front of which he performs a little mental calculation,
finally arriving at the conclusion that, as the portrait is not in the gold and silver boxes,
it may not improbably be in the leaden one. He actually does find it there, and exhibits it
to Portia with extreme astonishment, as if it was quite the last thing he expected. Then he
advances to meet her, comparing her frequently with the picture, and expressing his approval
of it as a likeness, and his determination to be taken by the same artist. Mutual satisfaction,
interrupted by the arrival of a gondola with a letter from Antonio. To read it and impart its
contents and the entire history of the bond to Portia, by a semicircular sweep of the arm and
sounding his chest, takes Bassanio exactly two seconds and a half, after which he departs in
the gondola, and the scene changes to the Piazzetta, where a variety of exciting events--including
the Trial, a Musical Ballet, and a Call to Arms--take place, culminating in the embarkation
of Venetian soldiers to recapture Chioggia, in three highly ornamental but slightly unseaworthy
barges, as the Curtain falls on Act I.

Interval of Fifteen Minutes, spent by some of the lady spectators in speculation whether the
dark and light patches on the blue curtains are due to design or the action of damp. After
which the Fortress of Chioggia is disclosed, with a bivouac of the Genoese garrison. A bevy
of well-meaning maidens enter with fruit and vegetables for the military, but, on the discovery
that their wares are properties, and too firmly glued to the baskets to be detached, they retire
in confusion. A small sail is seen behind the battlements; the soldiers poke at it with halberds
until it retreats, whereupon, soldier-like, they dance. The sail returns with a still smaller
one; red fire is burnt under the walls, which so demoralises the Genoese soldiery that they
all tumble down with precaution, and the Venetians burst in and stand over them in attitudes
as the scene changes to an Island near Venice and a Grand Aquatic Procession. (Here intelligent
Spectators in the Stalls identify the first four pairs of gondolas,--which are draped respectively
in icicles, pale green, rose-colour, and saffron,--as typifying the Seasons; another pair come
in draped in violet, which they find some difficulty in satisfactorily accounting for. When
two more appear hung with white and gold with a harp and palette at the prows, they grow doubtful,
and the entrance of the two last couples, which carry shrines and images, reduces them to hopeless
mystification. The Small Boy wishes to know whether anybody will be upset in the water, and
being told that this is not a fixture in the entertainment, conceives a poor opinion of the
capacity of Mediæval Venice for lighthearted revelry.)

Terrace near Portia's Palace, Portia, Bassanio and the Doge discovered enjoying a pasteboard
banquet.

(A Lady in the Stalls "wonders whether it is correct to represent Portia as knowing a Doge
so intimately as all that," and doubts whether it is in Shakspeare.)

The supper-table is removed, and the proceedings terminate by a Grand Al Fresco Carnival. Ladies
of the ballet dance bewitchingly, while soldiers play at Bo-Peep behind enormous red hoops.
Finally the entire strength of the ballet link arms in one immense line, and simultaneously
execute a wonderful chromatic kick, upon which the blue draperies descend amidst prolonged
and thoroughly well-deserved applause from a delighted audience.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE (POLITICAL) LADY-CRICKETERS.

(A COLLOQUY NEAR THE NETS.)

    [At the meeting of the Women's Liberal Federation the
    following "operative mandatory resolution" was carried:--"That
    in pursuance of the resolution passed in May 1890, the
    Council now instructs the Executive Committee that they shall
    promote the enfranchisement of women, including the local
    and parliamentary votes for all women, who possess any of the
    legal qualifications enabling them to vote, among the other
    Liberal reforms now before the Country, whilst not making it
    a test question at the approaching Election."]

    SCENE--"At the Nets" on the St. Stephen's Cricket Ground.
    "The Champion" has been practising in the interval, prior
    to playing in the Great Match of the Season, "Unionists v.
    Home-Rulers." Various admiring Volunteers of both sexes have
    been "scouting" for him.

First Admiring Bystander. By Jove, that was a slashing hit! What powder he puts into it, eh?
At his age too!

Second A.B. Oh, the Grand Old 'Un's in great form this season. Like 'tother W.G., who's just
back from the Antipodes and, at forty-four, can knock up his sixty-three in sixty-five minutes.
There he goes again, clean over all the "scouts"!

First A.B. Oh! he gives 'em plenty to do, "in the country." Keeps 'em on the shift, eh?

Second A.B. Bless you, yes. Why a hit like that, run out, would be worth seven to his side-in
a match!

First A.B. (knowingly). Ah, but I notice that in a match these tremendous swipes don't always
come off, don'tcher-know. I've seen some tremendous sloggers at the nets make a wonderful poor
show when between wickets with a watchful "field" round 'em.

Second A.B. (with candour). Ah, quite so, of course. Everyone must have noticed that. With
a demon bowler in front of yer sending 'em down like hundred-tonners, and a blarmed cat of
a wicket-keeper on the grab just at your back, not to mention a pouncer at point, it puzzles
the best of them to get 'em away, though "in a position of greater freedom and less responsibility,"
practising at the nets, to wit, with only the ground-bowler and a few scouts fielding, they
may punish 'em properly.

First A.B. Ah, well, one must allow that the Champion plays the game right away all the time.

Second A B. Yea. Age cannot wither him, nor custom stale his infinite variety. Wonderful, all
the same, what perversely bad hits he will persist in making, at times. Does things now and
again you'd think a school-girl with a bat would be ashamed of.

First A.B. Ah, by the way, what do you think of these here new-fangled Lady-Cricketers?

Second A.B. (significantly). Ask the Old 'Un what he thinks of 'em.

First A.B. Ah! can't abide 'em, can he? And yet he likes the Ladies to look on and applaud,
and even to field for him at times.

Second A.B. Yes; the Ladies have been good friends of his, and now he'd bar them from the legitimate
game. I fancy it's put their backs up a bit, eh?

First A.B. You bet! And it do seem ray-ther ongrateful like, don't it now? Though as fur as
that goes I don't believe Cricket's a game for the petticoats.

Second A.B. Nor me neither. But bless yer they gets their foot in in everything now; tennis,
and golf, and rowing and cetrer. And if you let 'em in at all, for your own pleasure, I don't
quite see how you're going to draw the line arbitrary like just where it suits you, as the
Grand Old Slogger seems to fancy.

First A.B. No; and, if you ask me, I say they won't stand it, even from him. "No," says they,
"fair's fair," they says. "All very well to treat us like volunteer scouts at a country game,
or at the nets, returning the balls whilst you slog and show off. But when we want to put on
the gloves and pads, and take a hand at the bat in a businesslike way, you boggle, and hint
that it's degrading, unsexing, and all that stuff."

Second A.B. Ah, that won't wash. If it unsexes 'em to bat, it unsexes 'em to scout. And if
the old cricketing gang didn't want the Ladies between wickets, why, they shouldn't have let
em into the field, I say. Strikes me Lady CARLISLE'll show 'em a thing or two. That "operative
mandatory resolution" of hers means mischief--after the next big match anyhow. "Ladies wait,
and wait a bit more, wait in truth till the day after to-morrow." Yes; but they won't wait
for ever.

First A.B. Not they. Why, look yonder! There's one of 'em in full fig. Lady-Cricketer from
cap to shoes--short skirt, knickers, belt, blouse, gloves, and all the rest of it. D'ye think
that sort means volunteer scouting only? Not a bit of it. Mean playing the game, Sir, and having
regular teams of their own.

Second A.B. Look at her! She's a speaking to the Grand Old Champion himself!

First A.B. Giving him a bit of her mind, you bet. What's that she's saying?

Second A.B. Why, that she admires his style immensely, and doesn't want to spoil his game;
but that, after the next great All England Match, if not sooner, they mean to have a team of
their own and go in for the game all round!

First A.B. Ah, what did I say?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CONFESSIONS OF A DUFFER.

NO. X.--THE DUFFER ON THE TURF.

"A horse for a protection is a deceitful thing," as the Scotch translator of KING DAVID has
it, and I entirely agree with him. I rather wish to be protected from a horse, than expect
any succour from a creature so large, muscular and irrational. Far from being "courageous,"
as his friends say, the horse (I am not speaking of the war-horse) is afraid of almost everything,
that is why I am afraid of him. He is a most nervous animal, and I am a nervous rider. He is
afraid of a bicycle or a wheel-barrow, which do not alarm the most timid bipeds, and when he
is afraid he shies, and when he shies I no longer remain. Irrational he is, or he would not
let people ride him, however, I never met a horse that would let me do so. It is with the horse
as an instrument of gambling that I am concerned. In that sense I have "backed" him, in no
other sense to any satisfactory result. With all his four legs he stumbles more than one does
with only a pair, an extraordinary proof of his want of harmony with his environment.

