At stated periods, if circumstances permit--usually at the first of each month--the regimental
quartermasters, after consultation with the company officers, forward through their superiors
to the chief quartermasters of corps, statements of the articles required by the men. These
are consolidated and presented to the chief quartermaster of the army, who orders them from
Washington, and issues them from the army depot--the whole operation requiring about a week.
The number of different kinds of articles thus drawn monthly is about five hundred; the quantity
of each kind depends on the number of men to be supplied, and the nature of the service performed
since the previous issue. If there has been much marching, there will be a great demand for
shoes; if a battle, large quantities of all kinds of articles to replace those lost on the
battle field will be required.

An infantry soldier is allowed the following principal articles of clothing during a three
years' term of service:

                   1st Year. 2d Year. 3d Year.
  Cap,                 1        1                                      1
  Coat,                2        1                                      2
  Trowsers,            3        2                                      3
  Flannel shirt,       3        3                                      3
  Drawers,             3        2                                      2
  Shoes,               4        4                                      4
  Stockings,           4        4                                      4
  Overcoat,            1        0                                      0
  Blanket,             1        0                                      1
  Indiarubber blanket, 1        1                                      1

The prices of these are stated each year in a circular from the department, and, as the soldier
draws them, his captain charges him with the prices on the company books. The paymaster deducts
from his pay any excess which he may have drawn, or allows him if he has drawn less than he
is entitled to. The clothing is much cheaper than articles of the same quality at home. Thus,
according to the present prices, a coat costs $7.30; overcoat, $7.50; trowsers, $2.70; flannel
shirt, $1.53; stockings, 32 cents; shoes, $2.05.

The commissary department provides exclusively the subsistence of the troops. Each soldier
is entitled to the following daily ration:

     Twelve ounces of pork or bacon, or one pound four ounces of fresh
     beef.

     One pound six ounces of soft bread or flour, or one pound of hard
     bread, or one pound four ounces of corn meal.

     To every one hundred men, fifteen pounds of beans or peas, and ten
     pounds of rice or hominy.

     To every one hundred men, ten pounds of green coffee, or eight
     pounds of roasted, or one pound and eight ounces of tea.

     To every one hundred men, fifteen pounds of sugar, four quarts of
     vinegar, one pound four ounces of candles, four pounds of soap,
     three pounds twelve ounces of salt, four ounces of pepper, thirty
     pounds of potatoes, when practicable, and one quart of molasses.

     Fresh onions, beets, carrots, and turnips, when on hand, can be
     issued in place of beans, peas, rice, or hominy, if the men desire.

     They can also take in place of any part of the ration an amount
     equal in value of dried apples, dried peaches, pickles, etc., when
     on hand.

A whiskey ration of a gill per day per man can be issued on the order of the commander, in
cases of extra hardship. It is, however, rarely issued, on account of the difficulty of finding
room for its transportation in any considerable quantities. Moreover, whiskey, in the army,
is subject to extraordinary and mysterious leakages, and an issue can scarcely be made with
such care that some drunkenness will not ensue. When lying in camp, sutlers and others sell
to the soldiers contrary to law, so that old topers usually find methods of gratifying their
appetites--sometimes sacrificing a large proportion of their pay to the villains who pander
to them. The utmost vigilance of the officers fails to detect the methods by which liquor is
introduced into the army. When a cask is broached in any secluded place, the intelligence seems
communicated by a pervading electrical current, and the men are seized with a universal desire
to leave camp for the purpose of washing, or getting wood, or taking a walk, or other praise-worthy
purposes.

The total weight of a ration is something over two pounds, but in marching, some articles are
omitted, and but a small quantity of salt meat is carried--fresh beef being supplied from the
herds of cattle driven with the army. A bullock will afford about four hundred and fifty rations,
so that an army of one hundred thousand men needs over two hundred cattle daily for its supply.

In camp the men can refrain from drawing portions of their rations, and the surplus is allowed
for by the commissaries in money, by which a company fund can be created, and expended in the
purchase of gloves, gaiters, etc., or luxuries for the table. A hospital fund is formed in
the same way--by an allowance for the portions of the rations not consumed by the patients--and
is expended in articles adapted to diet for the sick. The rations are ample and of good quality,
though the salt meat is rather tough occasionally, and the consistency of the hard bread is
shot-proof. Company cooks are allowed, and in camp they contrive to furnish quite appetizing
meals. Their position is rather difficult to fill, and woe is the portion of the cook not competent
for his profession. The practical annoyances to which he is subject make him realize to the
fullest extent 'the unfathomable depths of human woe.' On the march the men usually prefer
to boil their coffee in tin cups, and to cook their meat on ram-rods--without waiting for the
more formal movements of the cooks. To reach camp before sunset, after a twenty-mile march,
to pitch his little shelter tent, throw in it his heavy arms and accoutrements, collect some
pine twigs for a couch, wash in some adjacent stream, drink his cup of hot, strong coffee,
eat his salt pork and hard bread, and then wrap himself in his blanket for a dreamless slumber,
is one of the most delicious combinations of luxurious enjoyment a soldier knows. To-morrow,
perhaps, he starts up at the early reveille, takes his hasty breakfast, is marshalled into
line before the enemy, there is a shriek in the air rent by the murderous shell, and the soldier's
last march is ended.

The next department we shall consider is that of ordnance, which supplies the munitions and
portions of accoutrements.

The subject of artillery is perhaps the most interesting of the great number connected with
warfare. In the popular estimation it overshadows all others. All the poetry of war celebrates
the grandeur of

  'Those mortal engines whose rude throats
  The immortal Jove's dread clamors counterfeit.'

The thunder of great guns and the dashing of cavalry are the incidents which spontaneously
present themselves to the mind when a battle is mentioned. Perhaps the accounts of Waterloo
are responsible for this. The steady fighting of masses of infantry, having less particulars
to attract the imagination, is overlooked; the fact, preëminent above all others in military
science, that it is the infantry which contests and decides battles, that artillery and cavalry
are only subordinate agencies--is forgotten. So splendid have been the inventions and achievements
of the last few years in respect to artillery, as illustrated particularly at Charleston, that
some excuse may easily be found for the popular misconception. A few remarks presenting some
truths relative to the appropriate sphere of artillery and its powers, and stating succinctly
the results which have been accomplished, may be found interesting.

Without entering into the history of artillery, it will be sufficient to state that the peculiar
distinguishing excellence of modern improvements in cannon is the attainment of superior efficiency,
accuracy, and mobility, with a decrease in weight of metal. A gun of any given size is now
many times superior to one of the same size in use fifty or a hundred years ago. It is not
so much in big guns that we excel our predecessors--for there are many specimens of old cannon
of great dimensions; but by our advance in science we are able so to shape our guns and our
projectiles that with less weight of material we can throw larger shot to a greater distance
and with more accuracy. A long course of mathematical experiment and calculation has determined
the exact pressure of a charge of powder at all points in the bore of a cannon during its combustion
and evolution into gas. These experiments have proved that strength is principally required
near the breech, and that a cannon need not be of so great length as was formerly supposed
to be necessary. We are thus able to construct guns which can be handled, throwing balls of
several hundred pounds' weight. Another splendid result of scientific investigation is the
method adopted for casting such monster guns. In order that the mass of metal may be of uniform
tenacity and character, it should cool equably. This has been secured by a plan for introducing
a stream of water through the core of the casting, so that the metal cools both within and
without simultaneously.

About the time that the Italian war commenced, the subject of rifled cannon excited much popular
interest. Exaggerated expectations were formed of the changes to be produced by them in the
art of warfare. Many saw in them the means of abolishing war entirely. Of what use is it, they
said, to array armies against each other, if they can be destroyed at two or three miles' distance?
At the commencement of our own contest there was an undue partiality for rifled ordnance. Almost
every commander of a battery desired to have rifled guns. The more correct views of the thoroughly
accomplished artillery officers to whom was confided the arrangement of this branch of the
service, and actual experience, have dissipated the unfounded estimate of their utility for
field service, and established the proper proportions in an artillery force which they should
compose. It has been ascertained that fighting will never be confined to long ranges--that
guns which can throw large volumes of spherical case and canister into lines only a few hundred
yards distant are as necessary as ever.

The necessity for rifled cannon arose from the perfection of rifled muskets. When these arms
reached such a degree of excellence that horses and gunners could be shot down at a distance
of one thousand yards, the old-fashioned smooth-bore artillery was deprived of its prestige.
To retrieve this disadvantage and restore the superiority of artillery over musketry in length
of range, methods of rifling cannon for field service became an important study. For assailing
distant lines of troops, for opening a battle, for dispersing bodies of cavalry, for shelling
intrenchments, for firing over troops from hills in their rear, rifled guns are of invaluable
service. But, notwithstanding troops are now universally armed with muskets of long range,
no battle of importance is fought without close engagements of the lines. The alternate advances
and retreats of the infantry, firing at distances of less than one hundred yards, charging
with fixed bayonets and frantic shouts, will always characterize any battle fought with vigor
and enthusiasm. In such conflicts, wide-mouthed smooth bores, belching their torrents of iron,
must play a conspicuous part.

Another fact, which will perhaps surprise the general reader, is that the form and character
of projectiles have been matters of as much difficulty, have received as much investigation,
and are of as much importance, as the shape and character of the guns. In fact, rifled pieces
would be comparatively ineffective except projectiles adapted to them had been invented. It
was necessary that projectiles of greater weight, of less resistance to the atmosphere, and
of more accuracy of flight, than the old round shot, should be introduced. To accomplish these
ends several things were necessary: 1st, the projectiles should be elongated; 2d, they should
have conical points; 3d, the centre of gravity should be at a proper distance in front of the
centre; 4th, there should be methods of steering them so that they should always go point foremost
through the whole curve of their flight; 5th, they should fit the gun so as to take the rifles,
yet not so closely as to strain it. To attain these and other requisites, innumerable plans
have been devised. The projectile offering the best normal conditions is the arrow; it has
length, a sharp point, centre of gravity near the head, and feathers for guiding it (sometimes
so arranged that it shall rotate like a rifled ball). Improved projectiles, therefore, both
for muskets and cannon, correspond in these essentials to the first products of man in the
savage state.

We cannot, in this article, further discuss either such general principles or those of a more
abstruse character, in their application to artillery, but will briefly state a few facts relative
to its employment--confining ourselves exclusively to the field service.

The guns now principally used for battles, in the Northern armies, are 10 and 12-pounder Parrotts,
three-inch United States rifles, and light 12-pounder smooth bores. The distinguishing characteristic
of the Parrott guns is lightness of construction, secured by strengthening the breech (in accordance
with the principles mentioned a few paragraphs back) with a band of wrought iron. This has
been applied to guns of all sizes, and its excellence has been tested by General Gillmore in
the reduction of Forts Pulaski and Sumter. The three-inch guns are made of wrought iron, are
of light weight, but exceedingly tenacious and accurate. The 12-pounders, sometimes called
Napoleons, are of bronze, with large caliber, and used chiefly for throwing shell and canister
at comparatively short distances.

The greatest artillery conflict of the war (in the field) occurred at Gettysburg. For two hours
in the afternoon of the memorable third day's battle, about four hundred cannon were filling
the heavens with their thunder, and sending their volleys of death crashing in all directions.

It was estimated that the discharges numbered five or six a second; in fact, the ear could
hardly detect any cessations in the roar. The air was constantly howling as the shells swept
through it, while the falling of branches, cut from the trees by the furious missiles, seemed
as if a tornado was in the height of its fury: every few minutes, a thunder heard above all
other sounds, denoted the explosion of a caisson, sweeping into destruction, with a cataract
of fire and iron, men and animals for hundreds of feet around it. The effect of such a fire
of artillery is, however, much less deadly than any except those who have been subject to it
can believe. The prevalent impression concerning the relative destructiveness of cannon and
musketry is another instance of popular error. In the first place, all firing at over a mile
distance contains a large proportion of the elements of chance, for it is impossible to get
the range and to time the fuses so accurately as to make any considerable percentage of the
shots effective; and in the next place, except when marching to a close conflict, the men are
generally protected by lying down behind inequalities of the ground, or other accidental or
designed defences. The proportion killed in any battle by artillery fire is very small. Lines
of men frequently lie exposed to constant shelling for hours, with small loss; in fact, in
such cases, old soldiers will eat their rations, or smoke their pipes, or perhaps have a game
of poker, with great equanimity.

No portion of the military service has been more misrepresented than the medical department.
An opinion seems to prevail quite extensively that the army surgeon is generally a young graduate,
vain of his official position, who cares little for the health of the soldier, and glories
in the opportunities afforded by a battle for reckless operations. Such an opinion is altogether
fallacious. In the regiments there are undoubtedly many physicians who have adopted the service
as a resource for a living which they were unable to find at home, but the majority are exactly
the same class of professional men as those who pursue useful and honorable careers in all
our cities and villages. When a physician is called upon at home, it happens in a majority
of cases--as every honest member of the profession will admit--that there is little or no necessity
for his services. Too sagacious to avow this, he gravely makes some simple prescription, and
as gravely pockets his fee. In camp, however, the potent argument of the fee does not prevail,
and men who run to the doctor with trifling ailments, by which they hope to be relieved from
duty, receive a rebuff instead of a pill. They instantly write letters complaining of his inhumanity.
In regard to operations, it is a frequent remark by the most experienced surgeons that lives
are lost from the hesitancy to amputate, more frequently than limbs are removed unnecessarily.

The medical department of an army, like every other, is controlled by a system, and it is this
which regulates its connections with the soldier more than the qualifications of individual
surgeons. In the army the system takes care of everything, even to the minutest details. Hygienic
regulations for preserving the salubrity of camps and the cleanliness of the troops and their
tents, are prescribed and enforced. Every day there is a 'sick call' at which men who find
themselves ill present themselves to the surgeons for treatment. If slightly affected, they
are taken care of in their own quarters; if more seriously, in the regimental hospitals; if
still more so, in the large hospitals established by the chief medical officer of the corps;
and if necessary, sent to the Government hospitals established at various places in the country.
To the latter almost all the sick are transferred previous to a march. To be ill in the army,
amid the constant noises of a camp, and with the non-luxurious appliances of a field hospital,
is no very pleasant matter; but the sick soldier receives all the attention and accommodation
possible under the circumstances.

To every corps is attached a train of ambulances, in the proportion of two or three to a regiment.
They are spring wagons with seats along the sides, like an omnibus, which can, when necessary,
be made to form a bed for two or three persons. With each train is a number of wagons, carrying
tents, beds, medicine chests, etc., required for the establishment of hospitals. On the march,
the ambulances collect the sick and exhausted who fall out from the columns and have a surgeon's
certificate as to their condition. When a battle is impending, and the field of conflict fixed,
the chief medical officers of the corps take possession of houses and barns in the rear, collect
hay and straw for bedding, or, if more convenient, pitch the tents at proper localities. A
detail of surgeons is made to give the necessary attendance. While the battle proceeds, the
lightly wounded fall to the rear, and are there temporarily treated by the surgeons who have
accompanied the troops to the field, and then find their way to the hospitals. If the fighting
has passed beyond the places where lie the more dangerously wounded, they are brought to the
rear by the 'stretcher bearers' attached to the ambulance trains, and carried to the hospitals
in the ambulances. Sometimes it happens that the strife will rage for hours on nearly the same
spot, and it may be night before the 'stretcher bearers' can go out and collect the wounded.
But the surgeons make indefatigable exertions, often exposed to great danger, to give their
attention to those who require it. At the best, war is terrible--all its 'pomp, pride, and
circumstance' disappear in the view of the wounded and dead on the field, and of the mangled
remnants of humanity in the hospitals. But everything that can be devised and applied to mitigate
its horrors is provided under the systematized organization of the medical department. In the
Army of the Potomac, at least, and undoubtedly in all the other armies of the North, that department
combines skill, vigor, humanity, and efficiency to an astonishing degree. Its results are exhibited
not only in the small mortality of the camps, but in the celerity of its operation on the field
of battle, and the great proportion of lives preserved after the terrible wounds inflicted
by deadly fragments of shell and the still more deadly rifle bullet. Military surgery has attained
a degree of proficiency during the experiences of the past three years which a layman cannot
adequately describe; its results are, however, palpable.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Since that article was written, some changes of detail have been made, but the
principles remain the same.]

ÆNONE:

A TALE OF SLAVE LIFE IN ROME.

CHAPTER VIII.

Raising himself with an assumed air of careless indifference, in the hope of thereby concealing
the momentary weakness into which his better feelings had so nearly betrayed him, Sergius strolled
off, humming a Gallic wine song. Ænone also rose; and, struggling to stifle her emotion, confronted
the new comer.

She, upon her part, stood silent and impassive, appearing to have heard or seen nothing of
what had transpired, and to have no thought in her mind except the desire of fulfilling the
duty which had brought her thither. But Ænone knew that the most unobservant person, upon entering,
could not have failed at a glance to comprehend the whole import of the scene--and that therefore
any such studied pretence of ignorance was superfluous. The attitude of the parties, the ill-disguised
confusion of Sergius, her own tears, which could not be at once entirely repressed--all combined
to tell a tale of recrimination, pleading, and baffled confidence, as plainly as words could
have spoken it. Apart, therefore, from her disappointment at being interrupted at the very
moment when her hopes had whispered that the happiness of reconciliation might be at hand,
Ænone could not but feel indignant that Leta should thus calmly stand before her with that
pretence of innocent unconsciousness.

'Why do you come hither? Who has demanded your presence?' Ænone cried, now, in her indignation,
caring but little what or how she spoke, or what further revelations her actions might occasion,
as long as so much had already been exposed.

'My lady,' rejoined the Greek, raising her eyes with a well-executed air of surprise, 'do I
intrude? I came but to say that in the antechamber there is--'

'Listen!' exclaimed Ænone, interrupting her, and taking her by the hand. 'Not an hour ago you
told me about your quiet home in Samos--its green vines--the blue mountains which encircled
it--the little chamber where your mother died, and in which you were born--and the lover whom
you left weeping at your cruel absence. You spoke of your affection for every leaf and blade
of grass about the place--and how you would give your life itself to go back thither--yes,
even your life, for you would be content to lie down and die, if you could first return. Do
you remember?'

'Well, my lady?'

'Well, you shall return, as you desired. You have been given to me for my own; and whether
or not the gift be a full and free one, I will claim my rights under it and set you free. In
the first ship which sails from Ostia for any port of Greece, in that ship you may depart.
Are you content, Leta?'

Still holding her by the hand, Ænone gazed inquiringly into the burning black eyes which fastened
themselves upon her own, as though reading the bottom of her soul. She could not as yet believe
that even if the Greek had actually begun to cherish any love for Sergius, it could be more
than a passing fancy, engendered by foolish compliments or ill-judged signs of admiration,
and therefore she did not doubt that the offer of freedom and restoration would be gratefully
received. Her only uncertainty was with regard to the manner in which it would be listened
to--whether with tears of joy or with loud protestations of gratitude upon bended knees; or
whether the prospect of once again visiting that cottage home and all that had so long been
held dear, would come with such unpremeditated intensity as to stifle all outward manifestations
of delight, except, perhaps, that trembling of the lip or ebb and flow of color which is so
often the surest sign of a full and glowing heart.

For a moment Leta stood gazing up into the face of her mistress, uttering no word of thanks,
and with no tear of joy glistening in her eye, but with the deepened flush of uncontrollable
emotion overspreading her features. And yet that flush seemed scarcely the token of a heart
overpowered with sudden joy, but rather of a mind conscious of being involved in an unexpected
dilemma, and puzzled with its inability to extricate itself.

'My mistress,' she responded at length, with lowered gaze, 'it is true that I said I would
return, if possible, to that other home of mine. But now that you offer me the gift, I would
not desire to accept it. Let me stay here with you.'

Ænone dropped the hand which till now she had held; and an agony of mingled surprise, suspicion,
disappointment, and presentiment of evil swept across her features.

'Are you then become like all others?' she said with bitterness. 'Has the canker of this Roman
life already commenced to eat into your soul, so that in future no memory of anything that
is pure or good can attract you from its hollow splendors? Are thoughts of home, of freedom,
of friends, even of the trusted lover of whom you spoke--are all these now of no account, when
weighed against a few gilded pleasures?'

'Why, indeed, should I care to return to that home?' responded the girl. 'Have not the Roman
soldiers trodden down those vines and uprooted that hearth? Is it a desolated and stricken
home that I would care to see?'

'False--false!' cried Ænone, no longer regardful of her words, but only anxious to give utterance--no
matter how rashly--to the suspicions which she had so long and painfully repressed. 'It is
even more than the mere charms of this imperial city which entice you. It is that you are my
enemy, and would stay here to sting the hand that was so truly anxious to protect you--that
for your own purposes you would watch about my path, and ever, as now, play the spy upon my
actions, and--'

'Nay, nay!' cried the Greek, her flashing eye and erect attitude in strong contrast with the
softened tone in which, more from habit than from prudence, she had spoken. 'When have I played
the spy upon you? Not now, indeed, for I have come in, not believing that I was doing harm,
but simply because my duty has led me hither. I came to tell you that there is a stranger--an
old man--standing in the court below, and that he craves audience with you. Is this a wrong
thing for me to do? Were I to forbear performance of this duty, would not my neglect insure
me punishment?'

Ænone answered not, but, by a strong effort, kept back the words that she would have uttered.
Still angry and crushed with the sense of being deceived, and yet conscious that it was not
a noble or dignified thing to be in disputation with her own slave, and that there was, moreover,
the remote possibility that the girl was not her enemy, and might really dread returning to
a desolated and devastated home, what could she say or do? And while she pondered the matter,
the door again opened.

'And this is he of whom I spoke. Do you doubt me now?' exclaimed the Greek, in a tone in which
a shade of malicious triumph mingled with soft reproach. And she moved away, and left the room,
while Ænone, lifting her eyes, saw her father standing before her.

'A plague take the wench who has just left you!' he muttered. 'Did she not tell you that I
was below? I sent word by her, and here she has left me for half an hour kicking my heels together
in the courtyard. And I might have stayed there forever, if I had not of myself found my way
up. Even then, there were some who would have stopped me, deeming me, perhaps, too rough in
appearance to be allowed to ascend. But I told them that there was a time when members of the
house of Porthenus did not wait in antechambers, but stood beside the consuls of the old republic,
and I touched the hilt of my dagger; and whether it was the one argument or the other which
prevailed, here I am.'

With a grim smile the centurion then threw himself down upon a settee near the door, arranged
as properly as possible the folds of his coarse tunic, drew his belt round so as to show more
in front his dagger with richly embossed sheath--the sole article of courtly and ceremonious
attire in which he indulged--and endeavored to assume an easy and imposing attitude. For an
instant he gazed around the room, observantly taking in its wealth of mosaic pavement, paintings,
statuary, and vases. Then, as he began to fear lest he might be yielding too much of his pride
before the overbearing influence of so much luxury, he straightened himself up, gathered upon
his features a hard and somewhat contemptuous expression, and roughly exclaimed:

'Yes, by the gods, the Portheni lived with consuls and proconsuls long before the house of
Vanno began to rise from the dregs and become a house at all. And the imperator knows it, and
is jealous of the fact, too, or else he would the better acknowledge it. What, now, is that?'
he added, pointing to the central fresco of the ceiling.

'It is--I know not for certain, my father--but I think--'

'Nay, but I know what it is. It is the old story of the three Vanni overcoming the five Cimbri
at the bridge of Athesis. No great matter, nor so very long ago, even if it were true. But
why did he not paint up, instead, how the founder of the Portheni, with his single arm, slew
the ten Carthaginians under the aqueduct of Megara? Is not now your family history a portion
of his own? His jealousy prevented him, I suppose; though I doubt not that, when in his cups
with his high associates, he often boasts of his connection with the house of Porthenus. And
yet he would let the only relic of the family starve before assisting him.'

Ænone stood as in a maze of confusion and uncertainty. Were the trials of the day never to
end? First her unsatisfactory strife and pleading with her husband; then the undignified contest
with her own slave into which she had been betrayed; and now came this old man--her father,
to be sure--but so much the more mortifying to her, as his vulgarity, querulous complaining,
and insulting strictures were forced upon her ears.

'Are you not comfortable? What more can he or I do for you?' she said, with some impatience.

'Ay, ay; there it is,' growled the centurion. 'One person must have all luxuries--paintings,
silver, and the like; but if the other has only mere comforts, an extra tunic, perhaps, or
a spare bit of meat for a dog, what more can he want? But I will tell you what you can do?
And it is not as a gift, I ask it. Poor and despised as he may be, no one can say that the
centurion Porthenus is a beggar. It is as a fair matter of business that I offer it.'

'Well, my father?'

'It is this: I have two slaves, and can afford to keep only one of them, particularly as but
one can be of use to me. Will the imperator purchase the other? I will give it for a fair price,
and therefore no one can say that I have asked for anything beyond a proper trade, with which
either side should be well satisfied.'

Ænone listened with a blush of shame for her father overspreading her face. It did not occur
to her that the slave rejected as useless could be any other than the hunchback, whom her husband
had bestowed upon the centurion a few days before; and for the receiver to try to sell back
a gift to the giver was a depth of meanness for which no filial partiality or affection could
find an excuse.

'I will show him to you,' cried the centurion, losing a little of his gruffness in his eagerness
to effect a transaction, whereby, under the thin guise of a simple trade, he could extort a
benefit. 'I have brought him with me, and left him below. You will see that he is of good appearance,
and that the imperator will be pleased and grateful to me for the opportunity of possessing him.'

So saying, Porthenus strode to the head of the stairway, and issued his commands in a stern
voice, which made the vaulted ceilings of the palace ring. A faint, weak response came up in
answer, and in a moment the slave entered the room.

'Is this the one of whom you spoke?' faltered Ænone, unable for the moment to retain her self-possession
as she beheld, not the angular, wiry form of the hunchback, but the careworn and slim figure
of Cleotos. 'I thought--indeed I thought that you spoke of the inferior of the two.'

'Ay, and so I do,' responded her father. 'Of what use to me can this man be? The other one,
indeed, is of tenfold value. There is no slave in Rome like unto him for cleaning armor or
sharpening a weapon, while to run of an errand or manage any piece of business in which brains
must bear their part, I will trust him against the world. But as for this man here, with his
weak limbs and his simple face--do you know that I did but set him to polish the rim of a shield,
and in his awkwardness he let it fall, and spoiled the surface as though a Jewish spear had
stricken it.'

Ænone remained silent, scarcely listening to the words of her father, while, in a troubled
manner, she again mentally ran over, as she had done hundreds of times before, the chances
of recognition by the man who stood before her.

'But listen to me still further,' continued the centurion, fearful lest his disparaging comments
might defeat the projected sale. 'I only speak of him as he is useful or not to me. To another
person he would be most valuable; for, though he cannot polish armor, he can polish verses,
and he can write as well as though he were educated for a scribe. For one favored of fortune
like the imperator Sergius Vanno,' and here again the centurion began to roll the high-sounding
name upon his tongue with obvious relish, 'who wishes an attendant to carry his wine cup, or
to bear his cloak after him, or to trim his lamps, and read aloud his favorite books, where
could a better youth than this be found?'

Ænone, still overpowered by her troubled thoughts, made no response.

'Or to yourself,' eagerly continued the centurion, 'he would be most suitable, with his pale,
handsome face, and his slender limbs. Have you a page?'

'I have my maidens,' was the answer.

'And that amounts to nothing at all,' asserted her father. 'A plebeian can have her maidens
in plenty, but it is not right that the wife of a high and mighty imperator,' and here again
the words rolled majestically off his tongue, 'should not also have her male attendants. And
the more so when that wife has been taken from an ancient house like that of Porthenus,' he
added, with a frown in derogation of any tendency to give undue importance to her present position.
'But with this Cleotos--come forward, slave, and let yourself be seen.'

Cleotos, who, partly from natural diffidence, and partly from being abashed at the unaccustomed
splendor about him, had, little by little, from his first entrance, shrunk into a corner, now
advanced; and Ænone, once more resolutely assuring herself that, with the changes which time,
position, difference of place and costume had thrown about her, she could defy recognition,
summoned all her courage, and looked him in the face. It may have been with an unacknowledged
fear lest, now that she saw him so freely in the broad daylight, some latent spark of the old
attachment might burst into a flame, and withdraw her heart from its proper duty; but at the
first glance she felt that in this respect she had nothing to dread. In almost every particular,
Cleotos had but little changed. His costume was but slightly different from that which he had
always been accustomed to wear; for the centurion, in view of the chance of effecting a profitable
sale, had, for that occasion, made him put on suitable and becoming attire. The face was still
youthful--the eye, as of old, soft, expressive, and unhardened by the ferocities of the world
about him. As Ænone looked, it seemed as though the years which had passed rolled back again,
and that she was once more a girl. But it also seemed as though something else had passed away--as
though she looked not upon a lover, but rather upon a quiet, kindhearted, innocent friend--one
who could ever be dear to her as a brother, but as nothing else. What was it which had so flitted
away that the same face could now stir up no fire of passion, but only a friendly interest?
Something, she could not tell what; but she thanked the gods that it was so, and drew a long
breath of relief.

But it was none the less incumbent upon her, for the sake of that present friendship and for
the memory of that old regard, to cast her protection over him. For an instant the thought
flashed across her that it would be well to purchase him, not simply for a page, but so that
she could have him in the way of kind treatment and attention until some opportunity of restoring
him to his native land might occur. But then again was the danger that, if any great length
of time should meanwhile elapse, unconsidered trifles might lead to a recognition. No, that
plan could not be thought of. She must keep a protecting eye upon him from a distance, and
trust to the future for a safe working out of the problem.

'It cannot be,' she murmured, in answer, half to her father, half to her own suggestion.

''Tis well,' muttered the centurion, rising with an air of displeasure which indicated that
he thought it very ill. 'I supposed that it would be a kindness to the imperator or to yourself
to give the first offer of the man. But it matters little. The captain Polidorus will take
him any moment at a fair price.'

