That had been a troubled morning for Hannibal. Before he had finished his breakfast a party
of men rode by the house, and one of them was playing on a bugle. He had set Hannibal's mind
at work upon army matters and war; so when Barry and Prue came to see him, he would not even
nibble. He smelled of the apple, and he looked at the bun, but that was all.

"He's getting old," said Barry.

"And fat," added Prue.

"Tell you what, Prue, let's take him out into the lot. I know mother'd let us."

That was likely, for Mrs. Dunway always felt safer about them if Nibble were keeping them company.

"I'll get on his back."

"And I'll lead him. Wait till I fix the halter."

Prue climbed up on the side of the stall where Nibble was, and he stood perfectly still while
she clambered over to her place on his back.

Barry knew exactly what to do, and the old war-horse began to think he did himself. He must
have been thinking, for he half closed one eye as he was walking out, and opened the other
very wide, with a wonderfully knowing look.

He was looking down the lane, and he saw that the front gate was open, and just at that moment
there came up the road, very faint and sweet, the music of the cavalry bugle.

"Nibble! Nibble!" exclaimed Barry, "where are you going?"

Hannibal did not answer a word, but walked on down the lane very fast indeed, and Barry lost
hold of the halter.

As for Prue, she was not scared a particle, for she had ridden in that way many a time, and
her confidence in herself and old Nibble was unbounded.

"Cluck, cluck, cluck--get-ap."

"Stop, Prue, stop. He's going faster."

"Get-ap! Come, Barry. Oh, there's mother at the window!"

Mrs. Dunway was not frightened any more than Prue, for she said to herself, "Too old, indeed!
Well, they're more like three children, when they're together, than anything else. I'm glad
he is fat. He won't go too fast for Prue."

He was in the road now, and he seemed disposed to keep Barry from again getting hold of that
halter.

"Oh dear," said Barry, "the parade-ground's down there."

Hannibal knew that, by the music, and he was almost trotting now.

In fact, he was looking younger and younger, somehow, every minute, and Barry felt more and
more as if he ought to have hold of the halter, instead of merely running along-side and shouting
to Prue.

The regiment was drawn up on the great bare field where the review was to be that afternoon,
and they looked splendidly.

Colonel Dunway was saying so, as he sat in front of them, on his handsome black colt, and a
number of other officers who were riding with him said the same, and so did the ladies who
were keeping them company.

Just then the bugle sounded again, from the head of the column, and Prue had to hold on hard,
for Hannibal suddenly began to canter, and he answered the music with a loud, clear whinny
of delight.

Barry was half out of breath with running, but he kept up with the other two, and in a moment
more Hannibal halted, proudly arching his neck, and treading daintily upon the grass, right
in front of the regiment.

"I declare," exclaimed Colonel Dunway, "the old fellow has come to review the troops."

"So has Prue," said one of the officers.

Barry hardly knew whether to laugh or to cry, but the soldiers suddenly broke out in a grand
"hurrah."

They were cheering Prue and her war-horse, and Colonel Dunway himself was compelled to let
the "three children" stay and keep the place Hannibal chose for them at the head of the regiment.

There was plenty of apples for Nibble that day.

SEA-BREEZES.

LETTER No. 2 FROM BESSIE MAYNARD TO HER DOLL.

  OLD ORCHARD BEACH, July, 1880.

The days must seem very long and lonely to you, my sweet Clytemnestra, and I will send you
another letter, to "cheer you up a bit," as nursie used to say when she gave me a lump of sugar,
after pulling my curls 'most out of my head, trying to get out the tangles.

How are you getting along all this time? and what do you find to amuse yourself with? Do you
sit still in your own corner of the baby-house day after day, or does some kind fairy come
in once in a while and wind you up, so that you can run round the room and get a little exercise?
We will have lots of walks and talks when I get home, my Clytie. I heard mamma telling Cousin
Frank last night that we should proberly go next month. If I did not know that you were at
home expecting and wanting me, it would be awfully hard to think of leaving this place; for
life by the sad sea waves is truly (as I heard a lady say yesterday) "fassernating and terancing."

There are so many people here it seems like a party all the time. There are not many children,
though--at least not at our hotel; only Fanny, Dora, and me for girls; Randolph Peyton, Jack
Hunter, Charley Phillips, and Hal Davis for boys; Snip and Moppet for dogs; and the cunningest
wee little mite of a pussykin, named Whitetoes, for cats. Not that cats and dogs are exactly
children, either, but they are just as good, and sometimes better. I'm sure I would rather
play any time with Snip and Whitetoes than with that horrid Randolph. He is the very unpolitest
boy I ever knew. Let me tell you something he did yesterday, and then I guess you will agree
with me. We seven children and the dogs had planned a beautiful picnic down on "the island,"
as we call it.

You know the geography says (or you would know if you had ever been to school, poor child!)
that "an island is a portion of land entirely surrounded by water." Well, this "portion of
land" runs out ever so far into the sea, and has a pretty grove on it; and at high tide the
water covers the little strip of land where it really joins the beach, so that for a little
while it is an island, but the rest of the time it is a peninsula. That is a big word, and
you don't know a bit what it means, and I can't tell you now; you shall learn about it when
we begin our lessons.

But, oh dear, I was going to tell you about the picnic, and Randolph Peyton, the great disagreeable
boy. Somehow or other, when I begin to write to you, there are so many things to essplain that
I never seem to "come to the point," as papa says.

We had planned to start at eight o'clock, but what with Moppet's running away, and Snip's taking
a nap behind a hay-cock down in the orchard, where we only found him by accident at the very
last minute, we were not fairly on our way till almost nine. The boys carried the lunch baskets,
Fan wheeled her baby carriage, with poor invalid Jane lying back on the pillows, looking too
forlorn for anything, but really Fan seems to love her even more than she loved Lucille; and
I do think, considering what Jane has been through, that she is the very best child in the world.

Sometimes when I look at her woe-begone face, and her poor little head without a single hair
on it (she wears a lace cap, but we can see the bald right through), and remember her cheeks
as they used to be, and her lovely golden curls, and then think how gentle and kind she is,
never complaining, nor speaking a single cross word, I can't help saying' right out to her,
"You poor little dear thing. Solomon was right when he said 'Handsome is, that handsome does.'"
Well, Fan wheeled her along, and I carried Moppet curled up in my arms like a white puff-ball,
while Dora ran races all along the beach with Snip.

I forgot to tell you that Randolph had been behaving badly all the way, teasing us girls, pinching
the dogs, and making fun of Jane; but the terrible thing of all did not happen till we were
crossing over to the island. We always lay a board across from a rock on the beach side to
a rock on the island side, and over that we girls walk, though the boys generally wade right
through the water.

Fan and Jane went first on the board, then Dora and Snip, and last Moppet and me.

Now listen, my Clytie, though, without having seen it, you never can quite know how perfectly
terrible it was. Just as Dora and Snip were in the very middle of the board, and all of us
were on it, Randolph, who was standing in the water, gave a most unearthly screech, and at
that very minute-- But, mercy me! there's the tea-bell, and you must excuse me, my lamb, for
leaving you right here, for how can I help it when I smell waffles?--waffles, and muffins too,
I think.

  In greatest haste,
  Your own mamma,
  BESSIE.

P.S.--It was waffles I smelled, and I thought of you, dear Clytie, as I ate them. Now I shall
have to leave my story of Randolph at its very smilax (or climax, which is it?), and finish
it in my next letter, for I have written so much my fingers are all cramped up; so good-night.

THE PITIFUL HARE.

FROM THE JAPANESE, BY W. E. GRIFFIS.

Hares are always treated kindly by the Chinese and Japanese people, who make household pets
of them. The Chinese believe that the hare lives to be a thousand years old, and that at the
end of five centuries its hair becomes white. Instead of seeing a man in the moon, they imagine
they see a hare standing on its hind-legs, and pounding drugs in a mortar. There are great
creatures like gigantic men, called genii, who live in the moon, and make "the elixir of life,"
a draught of which confers very long life. The hare is their steward, and spends his time in
pounding the precious roots and bark of the "tree of the king of drugs," from which the elixir
is made. In the Japanese fairy tales, whoever smells, touches, or tastes of this tree is immediately
healed of all disease.

The country folks in Japan believe a great deal more in the influence of the moon on crops,
and good luck, and the weather, than our farmers do, and some of the Japanese almanacs are
very funny to read. It is for these reasons that the people do not injure the hare, for fear
of hindering the good influence of the moon.

The hare is considered above all others the faithful animal, and in the story which the picture
tells he is comforting his master.

It would seem very queer to you, my readers, to see tame hares running about the house instead
of your pet dogs and cats? But this is what the little Japanese see.

  MEREDITH, NEW HAMPSHIRE.

     I thought some of the readers of YOUNG PEOPLE would like to hear
     about a young robin my papa found under a cherry-tree near the
     house. He thought I could raise him, and take him back to New York
     for a pet. But after I had kept him two days in my room, he would
     chirp so mournfully when he heard the other birds singing merrily
     outside that it made me feel so sorry, I took him and put him on a
     branch of the tree. Oh, I wish you could have seen him flap his
     wings with delight. Then the old birds came, so glad to greet him.
     And how glad I was then that I had given him his freedom!

  ALBERTO A. DAL M.

       *       *       *       *       *

  MEADVILLE, PENNSYLVANIA.

     I am a subscriber to YOUNG PEOPLE, and am much pleased with it. It
     is the only pet I have.

     I live near the Alleghany College, and I like to see the students
     drilling. On Commencement afternoon they had a regular sham
     battle. The military is composed of four companies, all under the
     command of Major H----. The Major ordered out two companies for
     the sham battle. One company he sent around the base of a hill,
     and up through a ravine. The other company turned the cannon
     round, and made the attacking party surrender as they came out in
     sight.

  WILLIE V.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ST. LOUIS COUNTY, MISSOURI.

     I caught some turtles, which I keep in a tub. I feed them on meat,
     bread, and carrots. Last summer I hatched out two land turtles.
     Now I have fifteen turtles' eggs, and I think they will hatch. We
     found a land turtle that had July 3, 1776, carved on its back. I
     hope "The Moral Pirates" will catch some turtles. I am nine years
     old.

  C. G. R.

       *       *       *       *       *

  WELLSBURG, WEST VIRGINIA.

     I was up in the woods a few days ago, and I saw a woodchuck go in
     a hole. Having heard that they had a great deal of curiosity, I
     hid behind a heap of dirt real close to the hole, and in a minute
     out the woodchuck came to get a better look at me. Just then Dick,
     a little dog, came scampering up, ran by the hole, turned round,
     and crept softly back and stopped, watching, with eyes and ears on
     the alert. But I made a noise, so the woodchuck did not come out
     again.

     Once Dick was watching on the top of a steep bank, and a great big
     woodchuck stuck its head out of a hole. Dick grabbed it, and
     together they rolled to the bottom of the bank, where, if somebody
     had not killed the woodchuck, Dick would have had the worst of the
     fight, as he was the smallest.

     Are ground-squirrels, chipmunks, and gophers the same kind of
     animals?

     I have a barrel sunk in the ground, with cold water running in and
     out, and about two hundred minnows in it. Please tell me something
     good to feed them on.

       *       *       *       *       *

  CHIMACUM VALLEY, WASHINGTON TERRITORY.

     I live on a farm. I take YOUNG PEOPLE, and I think it is a very
     nice little paper.

     I have had the rheumatism since Christmas so bad that I could not
     walk nor turn myself in bed. Do you know what will get me well? I
     am thirteen years old.

     A lady gave me eight ducks' eggs. I set them under a hen, and now
     I have five little ducks. The old hen looks so frightened when her
     little ones go swimming in a pan of water! I suppose she thinks
     they are strange chickens. I have a dog named Prince. He knows so
     much he comes very near talking. Whenever I go away and come back,
     he will pick up a stick in his mouth and run toward me. I have a
     hen with nine little chicks. Whenever they get hungry, the mamma
     hen will come to the door of the house and cluck. My father milks
     twenty-eight cows. They give a bucket of milk apiece.

  ARTHUR S. R.

       *       *       *       *       *

  YOSEMITE VALLEY, CALIFORNIA.

     I live in Philadelphia, but it is so hot there in the summer that
     we decided to spend a few weeks in this beautiful Californian
     valley, camping out.

     We travelled from Merced to this place in our own wagons, pitching
     our tents every night. I like camp life very much, sleeping in
     tents and eating in the open air. Sometimes we build a camp fire
     in the evening, and all sit around it, telling stories and
     singing. It is very warm in the daytime here, and cold at night;
     and there is such a strong wind almost all the time that if you go
     too near the water-falls the spray is blown over you like rain. We
     make excursions every day to mountains and water-falls near by.

     On the way here we saw a tree so large that it took fourteen of us
     to get our arms round it.

     If any of the readers of YOUNG PEOPLE ever get a chance to go
     camping, I advise them to do it, for I think it is a great deal of
     fun.

     I like to read YOUNG PEOPLE very much, and I am so glad I take it.
     I am twelve years old.

  ALICE W. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

  GLENORA, MISSISSIPPI.

     My grandma gives YOUNG PEOPLE to my brother and myself, and we
     like it very much. I have no pets to write about, for my little
     pet deer, named Nettie, died. We live in the country, on the banks
     of a beautiful lake, and have a nice time fishing and taking skiff
     rides. I wish you could see the lovely magnolia-trees in my
     grandma's yard; and she has so many pretty roses too.

  LOUISE B.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BRIDGEPORT, CONNECTICUT.

     My papa is in Europe this summer, and he writes me very funny
     letters. His last one was from Paris, and he told me what people
     did when they wanted to take a bath in their room at the hotel.
     You touch an electric bell, and the man in the office telegraphs
     to a station, and a cart carrying a round boiler with hot and cold
     water, and drawn by a horse, comes dashing up to the hotel just
     like a fire engine; a man rushes up to your room with a tub and
     towels, and before you know it you are taking a nice warm bath.
     Papa said one day, just for fun, he rang for two baths at the same
     time, and it was very comical to see the two Frenchmen fight to
     see which bath should be used first. Papa makes little sketches
     all through his letters, so I know just how things look. I guess
     we shall all go to Europe another year, and then I will write you
     a letter from London or Paris.

  PAUL S.

       *       *       *       *       *

  DANSVILLE, NEW YORK.

     I am four and a half years old, and I can not read or write, but
     mamma is writing this for me. Papa has taken HARPER'S WEEKLY since
     1865, and binds it himself, and now he takes YOUNG PEOPLE for me,
     and is going to bind that too. I love to look at the pictures and
     hear mamma read the stories in my paper as soon as it is sewed and
     cut.

     I have many nice toys and playthings, and two pet kittens; their
     names are Dick and Spot.

     Papa plays on the violin, and mamma plays the organ, and I play on
     my triangle with them. I have a little violin, too, that grandpa
     gave me, but I don't play on it much when papa and mamma play. I
     can sing a great many pieces. I like music.

     We live in a pleasant farm-house south of Dansville. I do lots of
     chores for papa and mamma, and I ride our horse to water nearly
     every day. We have plenty of nice fruit and flowers.

     I think the Post-office Box is nice.

  CLYDE H.

       *       *       *       *       *

  HASTINGS, MINNESOTA.

     I take YOUNG PEOPLE, and I like it so much. I always read the
     letters the very first thing when I get my paper. Almost all the
     boys and girls write about their pets. I have no pets except my
     dolls. I have eight dolls. The largest is wax, and I call her
     Bessie.

     As I was trying to paint, the other day, I saw a large ant run
     along. I touched it with my brush, and then it was a green ant
     instead of a black one.

     I tried the recipe for cup-cake that Bessie L. S. sent, and it was
     just splendid.

     I think the story of "The Moral Pirates" is very nice. When I get
     a whole volume of YOUNG PEOPLE, I am going to have it bound. I am
     ten years old.

  MABEL I.

       *       *       *       *       *

  JENKINTOWN, PENNSYLVANIA.

     Our school closed on the last day of June, and the 1st of July we
     had a picnic, and we all enjoyed ourselves very much.

     I like YOUNG PEOPLE, especially the Post-office Box. The story of
     "The Moral Pirates" is splendid, and I hope it will be a good long
     one.

     I have no tame pets, but there are some chipping sparrows around
     our house. One pair built a nest in the honeysuckles by the
     kitchen door, and another pair built in the grape arbor.

     Here is a recipe for cake for the Cooking Club: One and a half
     cups of sugar; one egg; two table-spoonfuls of butter; three cups
     of sifted flour; one cup of sweet milk; two tea-spoonfuls of cream
     of tartar; one of soda; a little essence of either lemon or
     almond--I like almond best. This will make a good big cake.

  ELLA B. R.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I found fifty-five new flowers in June. Among them was the
     Ceanothus americanus, or New Jersey tea, the leaves of which,
     mamma read to me, were used for tea during the American
     Revolution. It is a pretty shrub with white flowers.

     I have two pet kittens, named Puck and Blossom.

     I would like to send Carrie Harding some pressed arbutus, but it
     has done blooming for this year. I would be glad to exchange other
     kinds of pressed flowers with her, if she would like to do so.

  HARRY H. MOORE,
  Windsor, Connecticut.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ANACOSTIA, D. C.

     On the 10th of July I was nine years old. Although it is vacation
     now, I practice writing in my copy-book, for it is very important
     to be a good writer.

     I have a butterfly net, and have caught some very pretty
     specimens. If Walter H. P. would use benzine to kill his
     butterflies, he would find it quite as good as cyanide of
     potassium, which is so poisonous. Benzine can be bought by the
     quart at the paint shops at a low price, and one or two drops on
     the head of a butterfly will kill it at once.

     I have a bantam rooster so tame that he will allow me to pick him
     up and carry him in my arms. I have a kitchen-garden, too. In it
     there are potatoes, corn, tomatoes, water-melons, a pea-nut vine,
     and two fine tobacco plants. One of my tomato vines has fruit on
     it. There are no weeds in my garden.

     I think HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE is the best paper published for
     children.

  WILLIE C. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

  HARSHMANVILLE, OHIO.

     Papa takes HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE for my brother. Mamma made him a
     pie from Helen's recipe. It was very nice. Mamma says some little
     girls are born cooks.

     When my brother reads the fairy stories in YOUNG PEOPLE, he says
     he would like to wade the Atlantic Ocean, and put a few whales in
     his pocket for his minnow tank. Now he wants to go fishing in a
     boat. He is almost ten, and I am seven.

     Mamma says, Tell Puss Hunter to set her bread to rise in a deep
     vessel, as the less surface exposed, the better it is, as the gas
     is kept confined in the dough. A flannel cloth to cover it with is
     best, for the same reason. Mamma says she is a friend to all
     little bakers.

  MYRTIE BELLE E.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I would like to exchange dried grasses, Southern moss, birds' eggs
     and nests, for sea-shells, with any reader of YOUNG PEOPLE.

  HORACE L. BARLOW,
  Refugio, Refugio County, Texas.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I would be glad to exchange birds' eggs with any correspondent of
     YOUNG PEOPLE.

  S. E. STRONG,
  1394 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I am eleven years old. I have a pony, some rabbits, guinea-pigs,
     and ferrets. Not long ago my pony went into the bantam-house, and
     ate up a whole boxful of oats which was standing there. Then he
     pulled down a bag of oats, and scattered them all over the floor.
     I have two canaries which have set twice this spring, but have not
     raised a bird.

     I would like to exchange pressed flowers with some little girl in
     California.

  WINNIE WALDRON,
  Care of Mr. E. H. Waldron, Lafayette, Indiana.

       *       *       *       *       *

Will Harry Starr Kealhofer, of Memphis, Tennessee, please send his full address, and a list
of stamps he wishes to exchange, to M. C. Stryker, corner of Argyle Avenue and Biddle Street,
Baltimore, Maryland?

       *       *       *       *       *

  CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.

     Will you please tell me the origin of the name of strawberries? I
     take YOUNG PEOPLE, and like it very much, and my little cousins in
     Louisiana take it too. I am eight years old.

  WINNIE S. G.

The word strawberry is from the Anglo-Saxon, and was formerly written streawberie. The reason
for applying the name to the delicious little fruit is undecided. Some authorities hold that
it should be written strayberry, and that it refers to the creeping or straying habit of the vines.

       *       *       *       *       *

C. L. B.--Alwur, sometimes written Alwar or Alvar, is a town of India, eighty-five miles southwest
of Delhi.

       *       *       *       *       *

  BONANZA, IDAHO.

     I have heard that there are a great many towns in the United
     States named Vicksburg. Can you tell me how many?

     My sister tried Helen's recipe for lemon pie, in YOUNG PEOPLE No.
     32, and it was very nice.

  F. M. G.

There are five towns and cities named Vicksburg, one in each of the following States: Kansas,
Michigan, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Mississippi.

       *       *       *       *       *

WILLIE M.--Directions for making an ordinary kite were given in Post-office Box No. 19. "Sim
Vedder's Kite," in YOUNG PEOPLE No. 25, also contained some valuable suggestions.

       *       *       *       *       *

WAVE.--Common sunfish can not injure the gold-fish and other inhabitants of your aquarium.

       *       *       *       *       *

  OTTAWA, CANADA.

     I am nine years old, and I have two sisters and one brother, Ruth,
     Alonzo, and baby Vera.

     There was a boy who wrote to YOUNG PEOPLE and said he was very
     fond of history. So am I. I have read Peter Parley's History of
     the United States five times, and now I am reading Charles
     Dickens's Child's History of England. I don't know what to read
     next. I wish you would tell me the names of some child's
     histories, for I do not understand very well those written for
     older people.

  PERCY R.

All of Abbott's Illustrated Histories would interest you. Then there are some good histories
for young readers by Miss Yonge; and child's histories of the United States, of Greece, and
of Rome, by Bonner; an interesting child's history of the United States, by T. W. Higginson;
and many other books referring to special periods, like Mr. Coffin's Story of Liberty and Boys
of '76, where you will find much valuable information. The works by Abbott, Bonner, and Coffin
are published by Harper & Brothers.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELLA W.--The date of the invention of gun-powder is unknown. Tradition says that it was used
in China as early as A.D. 85, for fire-works and blasting, and that the Arabs employed it at
the siege of Mecca in 690. Roger Bacon is supposed to allude to its explosive force, and it
is said that Berthold Schwartz, a monk, about 1336, discovered the mode of manufacturing it.
It is also said that the knowledge of it was conveyed to Europe by the returning Crusaders.

Tempt your parrot with English walnuts, bits of apple and pear, and canary and hemp seed, and
also give it a red pepper to pick to pieces. Let it out of its cage to climb about an hour
or more every morning. A parrot can not be healthy without some exercise.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEORGE F.--Directions for "Model Yacht Building" were given in YOUNG PEOPLE No. 23.

       *       *       *       *       *

F. H. L.--Any hardware merchant will send to New York city for a catalogue of toy steam-engines
for you, which will give you full information in regard to styles, prices, and how and where
the engine you require can be obtained.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRED H. H.--You can purchase turtles at any store where gold-fish and materials for an aquarium
are sold. They will cost you very little--ten or fifteen cents apiece, perhaps, for small ones.
If you are going to the country, you can catch plenty of them yourself. By reading former numbers
of Our Post-office Box you will find many directions for the care of turtles. A water turtle
needs clean water, and also stones to climb up on.

       *       *       *       *       *

Flavors are acknowledged from Anna Stuart, John Parr, Lulu A. Sacchi, Helen E. H., Ed. Walshe,
Edith Haigh, Blanche C., H. Krause, Fannie L. D., Eddie A. Leet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Correct answers to puzzles are received from Joseph Roome, Philip E. Ide, William I. Coleman,
Harry Louis, May L. Davis, R. H. King, W. Fowler, J. H. Shaw, Otis L. How, John W., Harry E.
Furber, George W. Raymond, W. Callaghan, Leon Munroe, Beryl Abbott, Willie Miner, Eddie Wheeler,
H. M. P., Helen W. Dean, Howard Rathbone, Daisy Violet, Paul Sterling, F. and B. Haigh, M.
C. Stryker, Winnie Waldron, George Francis, Carrie and Cora, Wilfred H. Warner, Lucie Ruprecht,
H. H. Gottleben, Lillian Clark, Minnie Lewis, Eddie S. Hequembourg, G. Volckhausen, Alfred
Jaquith, A. H. Ellard, Nannie S. S., Hallie S. Morgan, Jessie and Gertie Evans.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUZZLES FROM YOUNG CONTRIBUTORS.

No. 1.

NUMERICAL CHARADE.

  I am composed of 16 letters.
  My 11, 8, 15, 5 is used in winter.
  My 7, 12, 9, 2, 8 is found on the sea-shore.
  My 1, 3, 14, 6, 10 is a flock of birds.
  My 2, 3, 5, 15 is a vein of metal.
  My 1, 16, 13, 4, 5 is floating vapor.
  My whole was a noted British admiral.

  "TOUT OU RIEN."

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 2.

WORD SQUARE.

First, a division of time. Second, a girl's name. Third, disagreeable. Fourth, beams of light.

  M. E. N.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 3.

HIDDEN CITIES AND COUNTRIES.

1. I know the girls have nice new gloves. 2. Yes, I am going to start for Europe to-morrow.
3. The hero met his comrades. 4. At the sale many people were present. 5. The ox for David
was brought home yesterday. 6. When you go to Ceylon, do not neglect to write often to mother.
7. Near the foxes' den marks of feet were seen. 8. When Johnny whispers, I always tell him
to speak louder. 9. Being unjustly accused by our teachers, we deny having disobeyed the rules.
10. There were so many people, I thought the procession would never pass.

  S. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 4.

ENIGMA.

  My first is in float, but not in sink.
  My second is in write, but not in ink.
  My third is in barn, but not in store.
  My fourth is in nickel, but not in ore.
  My fifth is in garden, but not in walk.
  My sixth is in stem, but not in stalk.
  My whole is a delicious fruit.

  W. H. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 5.

DIAMOND PUZZLE.

In soprano. A mineral. A musical instrument. A verb. In soprano.

  WILLIE.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. 6.

DOUBLE ACROSTIC.

A period of time. A measurement. An animal. A river in the United States. To signify. Answer--Two
of the United States.

  JUPITER.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANSWERS TO PUZZLES IN NO. 36.

No. 1.

  1. Black, block, brock, brick, trick, trice, trite,
        write, white.
  2. Rose, rise, rile, wile, wily, lily.
  3. Beef, reef, reel, real, veal.
  4. Lamb, lame, lane, land, band, bond, bold, wold,
        wolf.
  5. Sick, silk, sill, will, well.
  6. Moon, boon, boor, boar, soar, star.
  7. Town, torn, morn, more, mote, mite, cite, city.
  8. Hawk, hark, bark, bard, bird.
  9. Sew, set, sit, sip, rip.
  10. Page, rage, race, rack, rock, rook, book.

No. 2.

Alabama.

No. 3.

      M
    S E T
  M E L O N
    T O P
      N

No. 4.

A rolling stone gathers no moss.

No. 5.

  P E A L
  E N V Y
  A V E R
  L Y R E

No. 6.

Pudding.

ELEMENTARY EDUCATION.

Books for the School and Family.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARITHMETIC.

FRENCH'S FIRST LESSONS IN NUMBERS. First Lessons in Numbers, in their Natural Order: First,
Visible Objects; Second, Concrete Numbers; Third, Abstract Numbers. By JOHN H. FRENCH, LL.D.
Illustrated. 16mo, Half Leather, 25 cents.

FRENCH'S ELEMENTARY ARITHMETIC FOR THE SLATE. Elementary Arithmetic for the Slate, in which
Methods and Rules are based upon Principles established by Induction. By JOHN H. FRENCH, LL.D.
Ill'd. 16mo, Half Leather, 37 cts.

FRENCH'S MENTAL ARITHMETIC. Mental Arithmetic, in which Combinations of Numbers, Solutions
of Problems, and Principles of Arithmetical Analysis are based upon the Laws of Mental Development.
By JOHN H. FRENCH, LL.D. Illustrated. 16mo, Half Leather, 36 cents.

NATURAL SCIENCE.

HOOKER'S FIRST BOOK IN CHEMISTRY. A First Book in Chemistry. By WORTHINGTON HOOKER, M.D. Ill'd.
Revised. Square 4to, Cloth, 48 cts.

FARADAY'S CHEMISTRY OF A CANDLE. Chemistry of a Candle. A Course of Six Lectures on the Chemical
History of a Candle, to which is added a Lecture on Platinum. By M. FARADAY. Edited by W. CROOKES.
Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, $1.00.

FARADAY'S PHYSICAL FORCES. Physical Forces. A Course of Six Lectures on the Various Forces
of Matter, and their Relations to Each Other. By M. FARADAY. Edited by W. CROOKES. Illustrated.
l6mo, Cloth, $1.00.

FRENCH AND GERMAN.

FRENCH PRINCIPIA, PART I. A First French Course: containing Grammar, Delectus, and Exercise-Book,
with Vocabularies. On the Plan of Dr. Smith's Principia Latina. 12mo, Cloth, 50 cents.

FRENCH PRINCIPIA, PART II. A First French Reading-Book. Containing Fables, Anecdotes, Inventions,
Discoveries, Natural History, and French History. With Grammatical Questions, Notes, and a
Copious Etymological Dictionary. On the Plan of Dr. Smith's Principia Latina. 12mo, Cloth,
80 cents.

GERMAN PRINCIPIA, PART I. A First German Course.

GERMAN PRINCIPIA, PART II. A First German Reading-Book. Containing Fables, Anecdotes, Natural
History, German History, and a Comedy.

COMFORT'S GERMAN PRIMER. A German Primer. By GEORGE F. COMFORT, A.M. 12mo, Half Leather, 50 cents.

COMFORT'S FIRST BOOK IN GERMAN. A First Book in German. By GEORGE F. COMFORT, A.M. 12mo, Half
Leather, 60 cents.

COMFORT'S FIRST GERMAN READER. The First German Reader: to succeed the "First Book in German."
By GEORGE F. COMFORT, A.M. 12mo, Cloth, 50 cents.

OBJECT LESSONS. By MARCIUS WILLSON. 12mo, Cloth, $1.00.

CALKINS'S PRIMARY OBJECT LESSONS. Primary Object Lessons, for Training the Senses and Developing
the Faculties of Children. A Manual of Elementary Instruction for Parents and Teachers. By
N. A. CALKINS. Fifteenth Edition. Rewritten and Enlarged. 12mo, Cloth, $1.00.

SOLUTION TO MONDDIA PUZZLE.

With a pair of scissors cut the straight line from A to B in Fig. 1. Then join the two pieces
as in Fig. 2, and you have a Diamond.

FIRE-EATING.

BY F. BELLEW.

You have read accounts, no doubt, if you have not seen the actual performance, of men who do
wonderful things in the way of swallowing fire. Some of these feats may be executed by amateurs,
with very good effect, in parlor entertainments.

I will first describe the feat of swallowing fire. This is very simple. Take a small piece
of jeweller's cotton about the size of a walnut, and pour on it a little alcohol; a few drops
will do. Then, standing with your face to the audience, you light this with a match. You then
take a long breath, and open your mouth wide, holding your breath, mind, all the time; then
you put the blazing cotton into your mouth, but just as it passes your lips you blow all the
air sharply from your lungs (this extinguishes the fire in the cotton); shut your mouth quickly
on the cotton, and press it boldly to the roof of your mouth with your tongue. You then slip
the wad of cotton into your cheek, and swallow a draught of water from a tumbler you have ready
on the table. As you wipe your mouth with your handkerchief after drinking the water, you remove
the bit of cotton, and then you can allow any one of the audience to examine your mouth in
order to satisfy himself that you really swallowed the fire.

In these fire-eating tricks, if you wash your mouth out with alum and water, all the better.

The other feat of fire-eating is a very old one, and has been often published, but I have seen
so very many people astonished by it that I venture to give it again for the new generation.

THE CANDLE TRICK.

A RIDDLE IN RHYME.

On one occasion, while at a dinner party, Dr. O. W. Holmes composed the following riddle:

  "My initials show my date to be
    The morning of the Christian year;
  Though fatherless, as all agree,
    I am a father, it is clear:
  A mother too, beyond dispute;
    And when my son comes,
  He's a fruit.
    Now, not to puzzle you too much,
    'Twas I gave Holland to the Dutch."