Melons and pumpkins will absolutely overrun you, if you do not give them most bounteous scope,
and you need want neither water nor musk-melons for six or eight months yearly on an average,
if you duly time the sowings. Nothing can exceed their rich juiciness and flavour, and the
rapidity of their growth is almost miraculous, when a few showers of rain temper the hot days.
The pumpkin makes an excellent substitute for the apple in a pie, when soured and sweetened
to a proper temper by lemons and sugar. The black children absolutely dance and scream when
they see one, pumpkin and sugar being their delight. To the half of a shrivelled pumpkin hanging
at the door of my tent on my first essay in settling, one of our sooty satyrs could do nothing
for some minutes but fidget and skip; and with his eyes sparkling, and countenance beaming
with ecstacy, exclaim, "Dam my eye, pambucan; dam my eye, pambucan!" such being the nearest
point they can attain to the right pronunciation of their favourite fruit.

Birds.--We are not moved here with the deep mellow note of the blackbird, poured out from beneath
some low stunted bush; nor thrilled with the wild warblings of the thrush, perched on the top
of some tall sapling; nor charmed with the blithe carol of the lark as we proceed early afield;
none of our birds at all rivalling these divine songsters in realising the poetical idea of
the "music of the grove;" while "parrots' chattering" must supply the place of "nightingales'
singing" in the future amorous lays of our sighing Celadons. We have our lark certainly, but
both his appearance and note are a most wretched parody upon the bird our English poets have
made so many fine similes about. He will mount from the ground, and rise fluttering upward
in the same manner, and with a few of the starting notes of the English lark; but on reaching
the height of thirty feet or so, down he drops suddenly and mutely, diving into concealment
among the long grass, as if ashamed of his pitiful attempt. For the pert, frisky robin, pattering
and pecking against the windows in the dull days of winter, we have the lively "superb warbler,"
with his blue shining plumage and his long tapering tail, picking up the crumbs at our doors;
while the pretty little redbills, of the size and form of the goldfinch, constitute the sparrow
of our clime, flying in flocks about our houses, and building their soft downy pigmy nests
in the orange, peach, and lemon trees surrounding them. Nor are we without our rural noters
of the time, to call us to our early task, and warn us of evening's close. The loud and discordant
noise of the laughing jackass, (or settler's clock, as he is called,) as he takes up his roost
on the withered bough of one of our tallest trees, acquaints us that the sun has just dipped
behind the hills, and that it is time to trudge homewards; while the plaintive notes of the
curlew, and the wild and dismal screechings of the flying squirrel, skimming from branch to
branch, whisper us to retire to our bedchambers. In the morning, again, the dull monotonous
double note of the whee-whee, (so named from the sound of its calls,) chiming in at as regular
intervals as the tick of a clock, warns us to rub our eyes and con over the tasks of the impending
day, as it is but half an hour to dawn; till again the loud laughter of the jackass summons
us to turn out, and take a peep at the appearance of the morning, which just begins to glimmer
beyond the dusky outline of the eastern hills.

Animals.--Our wild animals are numerous, but few of them carnivorous, and none of a size to
endanger human life. The native dog is generally believed to be an importation, being deficient
of the false uterus or pouch characterising all our other quadrupeds. He closely resembles
the Chinese dog in form and appearance, being either of a reddish or dark colour, with shaggy
hair, long bushy tail, prick ears, large head, and slightly tapering nose; in size he reminds
one of a shepherd's dog, running with considerable speed, and snapping in attack or defence.
He does not bark, but howls in melancholy sort, when prowling in quest of prey, and has a strong
and peculiar odour, which makes European dogs shy at first of attacking him, doubtless intimidated
too by his snapping mode of fighting; for it is observed of poodles, and all which snap, that
few other dogs are fond of engaging them. He is most destructive on breaking in among a flock
of sheep, as he bites a piece out of every one he seizes; not holding fast and worrying dead
like the fox, but snapping at all he can overtake, till twenty or thirty may be killed by one
dog, there being something so peculiarly venomous in their bite that few recover from it. Their
cross with the tame dog forms a very useful breed for emu-hunting, and many even of the pure
ones are caught young, tamed by the natives, and bred up to hunt emus and kangaroos. They have
as many pups as the tame dog, littering either in some hollow log, deserted ant-hill, hole
in the ground, or thick brush. They will hunt, kill, and devour a tame dog also, if a troop
of them can catch him alone. A settler in the interior informed me, that, while out hunting
one morning, he observed his dog running direct towards him at full speed, with two large native
dogs close at his heels; and so eager were they to seize their prey, that his own dog was actually
sheltered between his legs, and the native dogs within pistol-shot, before they perceived their
danger. Hence he was enabled to shoot one of them. The native cat is the only other carnivorous
animal we possess; but its depredations extend no farther than the poultry-yard. It is small
and long-bodied, with a long tail, claws like a common cat, a nose like a pig, striped down
the sides with brown and black, and dotted over with white spots. It climbs trees and preys
on birds while they sleep, being a night animal.

       *       *       *       *       *

FARM-HOUSES ON THE SNEEUWBERG MOUNTAINS.

The farm-houses in the Sneeuwberg, and in most of the colder districts of the colony, are usually
of the following description:--The house resembles a large barn divided into two or three apartments.
One of these is the kitchen, which also serves for the sitting and eating apartment. In the
others the family sleep; while, in the outer one already mentioned, visiters and travellers
are accommodated with a rush mat, a feather bed, and a coverlet spread on the clay floor. In
this situation I have often enjoyed, after a fatiguing day's ride, the most balmy repose; while
a swarthy train of slaves and Hottentots were moving round the embers of the fire, wrapped
in their sheepskin mantles, and dogs, cats, and fowls were trampling over my body. The more
wealthy and long settled families, however, usually have the kitchen separate from their sitting-room.
In such houses curtained beds, and other articles of decent furniture, are not unfrequently
found; but the poorer classes are content with a few thong-bottomed chairs and stools, two
or three wagon-chests, and a couple of deal tables. At one of the latter sits the mistress
of the house, with a tea-urn and a chafing-dish before her, dealing out every now and then
tea-water, or coffee, and elevating her sharp shrill voice occasionally to keep the dilatory
slaves and Hottentots at their duty. In this same apartment is also invariably to be seen the
carcass of a sheep killed in the morning, and hung up under the eye of the mistress, to be
served out frugally for the day's provision as it may be required. The houses, being without
any ceiling, are open to the thatch; and the rafters are generally hung full of the ears of
Indian corn, leaves or rolls of tobacco, slices of dried meat, called bill tongue, &c. The
last is a sort of ham from the muscular part of the thigh of the ox, or the larger species
of antelopes; it is very convenient for carrying on journeys, and is found in the boor's houses
in every part of the colony. It is cut into very thin slices, and eaten with bread and butter,
or with bread and the melted fat of the sheep's tail, which is a common substitute for butter;
either way it is no contemptible dish when one is a little hungry, and many a time I have heartily
enjoyed it.

A traveller, on arriving, if it does not happen to be meal-time, is always presented with a
cup of tea, without sugar, milk, or bread; unless occasionally, when you may be favoured with
a small piece of sugar-candy out of a tin snuff-box, to be kept in your mouth to sweeten the
bitter beverage as it passes. When their tea and coffee are exhausted, a succedaneum is found
in roasted grain, prepared in the same way as Hunt's radical coffee, which, if not very palatable,
is nevertheless a refreshment to a thirsty and weary traveller. They never think of asking
you to eat unless at meal-time; but then you are expected to draw in your chair, and help yourself,
without invitation, in the same easy manner as one of the family. The dishes consist for the
most part of mutton stewed in sheep's-tail fat, or boiled to rags; sometimes with very palatable
soup, and a dish of boiled corn, maize, or pumpkin. Cayenne-pepper, vinegar, and few home-made
pickles, are also usually produced to relish the simple fare, which, served up twice a day,
forms, with tea-water and the soopie, or dram of Cape brandy, the amount of their luxuries.
In this quarter of the colony, however, I found every where excellent bread; and, upon the
whole, the farmers of Bruintjes-Hoogte and the Sneeuwberg appeared in much more independent
and comfortable circumstances than those along the coast.

Thompson's Southern Africa.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOSPITAL FOR THE DUMB.

The Banian hospital at Surat is a most remarkable institution; it consists of a large plot
of ground, enclosed with high walls, divided into several courts or wards, for the accommodation
of animals; in sickness they are attended with the tenderest care, and find a peaceful asylum
for the infirmities of age. When an animal breaks a limb, or is otherwise disabled from serving
his master, he carries him to the hospital, and, indifferent to what nation or caste the owner
may belong, the patient is never refused admittance. If he recover, he cannot be reclaimed,
but must remain in the hospital for life, subject to the duty of drawing water for those pensioners
debilitated by age or disease from procuring it for themselves. At my visit, the hospital contained
horses, mules, oxen, sheep, goats, monkeys, poultry, pigeons, and a variety of birds, with
an aged tortoise, who was known to have been there for seventy-five years. The most extraordinary
ward was that appropriated to rats, mice, bugs, and other noxious vermin. The overseers of
the hospital frequently hire beggars from the streets, for a stipulated sum, to pass a night
among the fleas, lice, and bugs, on the express condition of suffering them to enjoy their
feast without molestation.

Forbes's Oriental Memoirs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Useful Domestic Hints

       *       *       *       *       *

NORFOLK PUNCH. NO. 1.

In twenty quarts of French brandy put the peels of thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared
so thin that not the least of the white is left; infuse twelve hours. This liquor will keep
many years, and improves by age.--The Vintner's Guide.

NORFOLK PUNCH. NO. 2.

TO MANAGE AND IMPROVE RED PORT WINE WHEN POOR AND THIN.

If your wines be sound, but wanting in body, colour, and flavour, draw out thirty or forty
gallons, and return the same quantity of young and rich wines, such its are generally brought
to this country for that purpose; to a can of which put a quart of colouring, with a bottle
of wine or brandy, in which half an ounce of powdered cochineal has been previously mixed.
Whisk it well together, and put it in your cask, stirring it well about with a staff; and if
not bright in about a week or ten days, you may fine it for use; previous to which, put in
at different times a gallon of good brandy. If Port wines are short of body, put a gallon or
two of brandy into each pipe, as you see necessary. If the wines be in your own stock, put
it in by a quart or two at a time, as it feeds the wine better in this way than putting it
in all at once; but, if your wines are in a bonded cellar, procure a funnel that will go down
to the bottom of the cask, that the brandy may be completely incorporated with the wine. When
your Port is thus made fine and pleasant, bottle it off, taking care to pack it in a temperate
place with saw-dust or dry sand, after which it will not be proper to drink for at least two
months. When laying your wines down in bottles you should never use new deal saw-dust, as that
causes it to fret too much, and often communicates a strong turpentine smell through the corks
to the wine.--Ibid.

RED CURRANT WINE.

Take seventy pounds of red currants, bruised and pressed, good moist sugar forty-five pounds,
water sufficient to fill up a fifteen-gallon cask, ferment; this produces a very pleasant red
wine, rather tart, but keeps well.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Gatherer.

"I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff."--Wotton.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON CRANIOLOGY.

  In days of yore,
  Laid wit and lore,
    And wisdom in the wig;
  But now the skull
  Contains them all,
    The peruke is too big.

       *       *       *       *       *

"According to Julius Africanus," says Gibbon, "the world was created on the first of September--an
opinion almost too foolish to be recorded."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the memoirs of the celebrated French actor, Preville, we find the following letter, addressed
by the manager of a strolling company to his prompter:--

"At last, my dear boy, here we are safe in Provins. The coach-office undertook to deliver the
boxes of snow and hail. The winds and tempest came later than we expected--we even lost a zephyr.
The thunder got broke on the road, and we have been forced to have fresh sodder for the two
lightnings. Our divinities are well, with the exception of Love, who has got the small-pox;
the Graces have been inoculated; we were obliged to leave them behind on the road, with the
brick wall, which being wrapt round the sun to keep it from getting soiled, was rubbed to pieces
by the sharp rays. Our rivers and sea are coming by water; and pray, when you come yourself,
do not forget to bring lots of clouds with you, and a new moon. A torrent too will be wanted,
for our last has most unluckily got burnt. I am anxious for a full account of all your purchases,
to which you must add two yards of weeping willows. Above all, bring me a drawbridge, a fortress,
and my linen, if it was not turned into tinder for the last sea-fight. Ever yours."