'What I should enjoy,' proceeded Charles, 'would be to see her over head and ears in love with
this hero, and Philip properly jealous.'

'How can you say such things, Charlie?'

'Why? was there ever a beauty who did not fall in love with her father's ward?'

'No; but she ought to live alone with her very old father and horribly grim maiden aunt.'

'Very well, Amy, you shall be the maiden, aunt.' And as Laura returned at that moment, he announced
to her that they had been agreeing that no hero ever failed to fall in love with his guardian's
beautiful daughter.

'If his guardian had a beautiful daughter,' said Laura, resolved not to be disconcerted.

'Did you ever hear such barefaced fishing for compliments?' said Charles; but Amabel, who did
not like her sister to be teased, and was also conscious of having wasted a good deal of time,
sat down to practise. Laura returned to her drawing, and Charles, with a yawn, listlessly turned
over a newspaper, while his fair delicate features, which would have been handsome but that
they were blanched, sharpened, and worn with pain, gradually lost their animated and rather
satirical expression, and assumed an air of weariness and discontent.

Charles was at this time nineteen, and for the last ten years had been afflicted with a disease
in the hip-joint, which, in spite of the most anxious care, caused him frequent and severe
suffering, and had occasioned such a contraction of the limb as to cripple him completely,
while his general health was so much affected as to render him an object of constant anxiety.
His mother had always been his most devoted and indefatigable nurse, giving up everything for
his sake, and watching him night and day. His father attended to his least caprice, and his
sisters were, of course, his slaves; so that he was the undisputed sovereign of the whole family.

The two elder girls had been entirely under a governess till a month or two before the opening
of our story, when Laura was old enough to be introduced; and the governess departing, the
two sisters became Charles's companions in the drawing-room, while Mrs. Edmonstone, who had
a peculiar taste and talent for teaching, undertook little Charlotte's lessons herself. It
had an air of great snugness, with its large folding-screen, covered with prints and caricatures
of ancient date, its book-shelves, its tables, its peculiarly easy arm-chairs, the great invalid
sofa, and the grate, which always lighted up better than any other in the house.

In the bright glow of the fire, with the shutters closed and curtains drawn, lay Charles on
his couch, one Monday evening, in a gorgeous dressing-gown of a Chinese pattern, all over pagodas,
while little Charlotte sat opposite to him, curled up on a footstool. He was not always very
civil to Charlotte; she sometimes came into collision with him, for she, too, was a pet, and
had a will of her own, and at other times she could bore him; but just now they had a common
interest, and he was gracious.

'It is striking six, so they must soon be here. I wish mamma would let me go down; but I must
wait till after dinner.'

'Then, Charlotte, as soon as you come in, hold up your hands, and exclaim, "What a guy!" There
will be a compliment!'

'No, Charlie; I promised mamma and Laura that you should get me into no more scrapes.'

'Did you? The next promise you make had better depend upon yourself alone.'

'But Amy said I must be quiet, because poor Sir Guy will be too sorrowful to like a racket;
and when Amy tells me to be quiet, I know that I must, indeed.'

'Most true,' said Charles, laughing.

'Do you think you shall like Sir Guy?'

'I shall be able to determine,' said Charles, sententiously, 'when I have seen whether he brushes
his hair to the right or left.'

'Philip brushes his to the left.'

'Then undoubtedly Sir Guy will brush his to the right.'

'Is there not some horrid story about those Morvilles of Redclyffe?' asked Charlotte. 'I asked
Laura, and she told me not to be curious, so I knew there was something in it; and then I asked
Amy, and she said it would be no pleasure to me to know.'

'Ah! I would have you prepared.'

'Why, what is it? Oh! dear Charlie! are you really going to tell me?'

'Did you ever hear of a deadly feud?'

'I have read of them in the history of Scotland. They went on hating and killing each other
for ever. There was one man who made his enemy's children eat out of a pig-trough, and another
who cut off his head.'

'His own?'

'No, his enemy's, and put it on the table, at breakfast, with a piece of bread in its mouth.'

'Very well; whenever Sir Guy serves up Philip's head at breakfast, with a piece of bread in
his mouth, let me know.'

Charlotte started up. 'Charles, what do you mean? Such things don't happen now.'

'Nevertheless, there is a deadly feud between the two branches of the house of Morville.'

'But it is very wrong,' said Charlotte, looking frightened.'

'Wrong? Of course it is.'

'Philip won't do anything wrong. But how will they ever get on?'

'Don't you see? It must be our serious endeavour to keep the peace, and prevent occasions of
discord.'

'Do you think anything will happen?'

'It is much to be apprehended,' said Charles, solemnly.

At that moment the sound of wheels was heard, and Charlotte flew off to her private post of
observation, leaving her brother delighted at having mystified her. She returned on tip-toe.
'Papa and Sir Guy are come, but not Philip; I can't see him anywhere.'

'Ah you have not looked in Sir Guy's great-coat pocket.'

'I wish you would not plague me so! You are not in earnest?'

The pettish inquiring tone was exactly what delighted him. And he continued to tease her in
the same style till Laura and Amabel came running in with their report of the stranger.

'He is come!' they cried, with one voice.

'Very gentlemanlike!' said Laura.

'Very pleasant looking,' said Amy. 'Such fine eyes!'

'And so much expression,' said Laura. 'Oh!'

The exclamation, and the start which accompanied it, were caused by hearing her father's voice
close to the door, which had been left partly open. 'Here is poor Charles,' it said, 'come
in, and see him; get over the first introduction--eh, Guy?' And before he had finished, both
he and the guest were in the room, and Charlotte full of mischievous glee at her sister's confusion.

'Well, Charlie, boy, how goes it?' was his father's greeting. 'Better, eh? Sorry not to find
you down-stairs; but I have brought Guy to see you.' Then, as Charles sat up and shook hands
with Sir Guy, he continued--'A fine chance for you, as I was telling him, to have a companion
always at hand: a fine chance? eh, Charlie?'

'I am not so unreasonable as to expect any one to be always at hand,' said Charles, smiling,
as he looked up at the frank, open face, and lustrous hazel eyes turned on him with compassion
at the sight of his crippled, helpless figure, and with a bright, cordial promise of kindness.

As he spoke, a pattering sound approached, the door was pushed open, and while Sir Guy exclaimed,
'O, Bustle! Bustle! I am very sorry,' there suddenly appeared a large beautiful spaniel, with
a long silky black and white coat, jetty curled ears, tan spots above his intelligent eyes,
and tan legs, fringed with silken waves of hair, but crouching and looking beseeching at meeting
no welcome, while Sir Guy seemed much distressed at his intrusion.

'O you beauty!' cried Charles. 'Come here, you fine fellow.'

Bustle only looked wistfully at his master, and moved nothing but his feather of a tail.

'Ah! I was afraid you would repent of your kindness,' said Sir Guy to Mr. Edmonstone.

'Not at all, not at all!' was the answer; 'mamma never objects to in-door pets, eh, Amy?'

'A tender subject, papa,' said Laura; 'poor Pepper!'

Amy, ashamed of her disposition to cry at the remembrance of the dear departed rough terrier,
bent down to hide her glowing face, and held out her hand to the dog, which at last ventured
to advance, still creeping with his body curved till his tail was foremost, looking imploringly
at his master, as if to entreat his pardon.

'Are you sure you don't dislike it?' inquired Sir Guy, of Charles.

'I? O no. Here, you fine creature.'

'Come, then, behave like a rational dog, since you are come,' said Sir Guy; and Bustle, resuming
the deportment of a spirited and well-bred spaniel, no longer crouched and curled himself into
the shape of a comma, but bounded, wagged his tail, thrust his nose into his master's hand
and then proceeded to reconnoitre the rest of the company, paying especial attention to Charles,
putting his fore-paws on the sofa, and rearing himself up to contemplate him with a grave,
polite curiosity, that was very diverting.

'Well, old fellow,' said Charles, 'did you ever see the like of such a dressing-gown? Are you
satisfied? Give me your paw, and let us swear an eternal friendship.'

'I am quite glad to see a dog in the house again,' said Laura, and, after a few more compliments,
Bustle and his master followed Mr. Edmonstone out of the room.

'One of my father's well-judged proceedings,' murmured Charles. 'That poor fellow had rather
have gone a dozen, miles further than have been lugged in here. Really, if papa chooses to
inflict such dressing-gowns on me, he should give me notice before he brings men and dogs to
make me their laughing-stock!'

'An unlucky moment,' said Laura. 'Will my cheeks ever cool?'

'Perhaps he did not hear,' said Amabel, consolingly.

'You did not ask about Philip?' said Charlotte, with great earnestness.

'He is staying at Thorndale, and then going to St. Mildred's,' said Laura.

'I hope you are relieved,' said her brother; and she looked in doubt whether she ought to laugh.

'And what do you think of Sir Guy?'

'May he only be worthy of his dog!' replied Charles.

'Ah!' said Laura, 'many men are neither worthy of their wives, nor of their dogs.'

'Dr. Henley, I suppose, is the foundation of that aphorism,' said Charles.

'If Margaret Morville could marry him, she could hardly be too worthy,' said Laura. 'Think
of throwing away Philip's whole soul!'

'O Laura, she could not lose that,' said Amabel.

Laura looked as if she knew more; but at that moment, both her father and mother entered, the
former rubbing his hands, as he always did when much pleased, and sending his voice before
him, as he exclaimed, 'Well, Charlie, well, young ladies, is not he a fine fellow--eh?'

'Rather under-sized,' said Charles.

'Eh? He'll grow. He is not eighteen, you know; plenty of time; a very good height; you can't
expect every one to be as tall as Philip; but he's a capital fellow. And how have you been?--any
pain?'

'Hem--rather,' said Charles, shortly, for he hated answering kind inquiries, when out of humour.

'Ah, that's a pity; I was sorry not to find you in the drawing-room, but I thought you would
have liked just to see him,' said Mr. Edmonstone, disappointed, and apologizing.

'I had rather have had some notice of your intention,' said Charles, 'I would have made myself
fit to be seen.'

'I am sorry. I thought you would have liked his coming,' said poor Mr. Edmonstone, only half
conscious of his offence; 'but I see you are not well this evening.'

Worse and worse, for it was equivalent to openly telling Charles he was out of humour; and
seeing, as he did, his mother's motive, he was still further annoyed when she hastily interposed
a question about Sir Guy.

'You should only hear them talk about him at Redclyffe,' said Mr Edmonstone. 'No one was ever
equal to him, according to them. Every one said the same--clergyman, old Markham, all of them.
Such attention to his grandfather, such proper feeling, so good-natured, not a bit of pride--it
is my firm belief that he will make up for all his family before him.'

Charles set up his eyebrows sarcastically.

'How does he get on with Philip?' inquired Laura.

'Excellently. Just what could be wished. Philip is delighted with him; and I have been telling
Guy all the way home what a capital friend he will be, and he is quite inclined to look up
to him.' Charles made an exaggerated gesture of astonishment, unseen by his father. 'I told
him to bring his dog. He would have left it, but they seemed so fond of each other, I thought
it was a pity to part them, and that I could promise it should be welcome here; eh, mamma?'

'Certainly. I am very glad you brought it.'

'We are to have his horse and man in a little while. A beautiful chestnut--anything to raise
his spirits. He is terribly cut up about his grandfather.

It was now time to go down to dinner; and after Charles had made faces of weariness and disgust
at all the viands proposed to him by his mother, almost imploring him to like them, and had
at last ungraciously given her leave to send what he could not quite say he disliked, he was
left to carry on his teasing of Charlotte, and his grumbling over the dinner, for about the
space of an hour, when Amabel came back to him, and Charlotte went down.

'Hum!' he exclaimed. 'Another swan of my father's.'

'Did not you like his looks?'

'I saw only an angular hobbetyhoy.'

'But every one at Redclyffe speaks so well of him.'

'As if the same things were not said of every heir to more acres than brains! However, I could
have swallowed everything but the disposition to adore Philip. Either it was gammon on his
part, or else the work of my father's imagination.'

'For shame, Charlie.'

'Is it within the bounds of probability that he should be willing, at the bidding of his guardian,
to adopt as Mentor his very correct and sententious cousin, a poor subaltern, and the next
in the entail? Depend upon it, it is a fiction created either by papa's hopes or Philip's self-complacency,
or else the unfortunate youth must have been brought very low by strait-lacing and milk-and-water.'

'Mr. Thorndale is willing to look up to Philip,'

'I don't think the Thorndale swan very--very much better than a tame goose,' said Charles,
'but the coalition is not so monstrous in his case, since Philip was a friend of his own picking
and choosing, and so his father's adoption did not succeed in repelling him. But that Morville
should receive this "young man's companion," on the word of a guardian whom he never set eyes
on before, is too incredible--utterly mythical I assure you, Amy. And how did you get on at
dinner?'

'Oh, the dog is the most delightful creature I ever saw, so sensible and well-mannered.'

'It was of the man that I asked.'

'He said hardly anything, and sometimes started if papa spoke to him suddenly. He winced as
if he could not bear to be called Sir Guy, so papa said we should call him only by his name,
if he would do the same by us. I am glad of it, for it seems more friendly, and I am sure he
wants to be comforted.'

'Don't waste your compassion, my dear; few men need it less. With his property, those moors
to shoot over, his own master, and with health to enjoy it, there are plenty who would change
with him for all your pity, my silly little Amy.'

'Surely not, with that horrible ancestry.'

'All very well to plume oneself upon. I rather covet that ghost myself.'

'Well, if you watched his face, I think you would be sorry for him.'

'I am tired of the sound of his name. One fifth of November is enough in the year. Here, find
something to read to me among that trumpery.'

Amy read till she was summoned to tea, when she found a conversation going on about Philip,
on whose history Sir Guy did not seem fully informed. Philip was the son of Archdeacon Morville,
Mrs. Edmonstone's brother, an admirable and superior man, who had been dead about five years.
He left three children, Margaret and Fanny, twenty-five and twenty-three years of age, and
Philip, just seventeen. The boy was at the head of his school, highly distinguished for application
and good conduct; he had attained every honour there open to him, won golden opinions from
all concerned with him, and made proof of talents which could not have failed to raise him
to the highest university distinctions. He was absent from home at the time of his father's
death, which took place after so short an illness, that there had been no time to summon him
back to Stylehurst. Very little property was left to be divided among the three; and as soon
as Philip perceived how small was the provision for his sisters, he gave up his hopes of university
honours, and obtained a commission in the army.

On hearing this, Sir Guy started forward: 'Noble!' he cried, 'and yet what a pity! If my grandfather
had but known it--'

'Ah! I was convinced of that,' broke in Mr. Edmonstone, 'and so, I am sure, was Philip himself;
but in fact he knew we should never have given our consent, so he acted quite by himself, wrote
to Lord Thorndale, and never said a word, even to his sisters, till the thing was done. I never
was more surprised in my life.'

'One would almost envy him the opportunity of making such a sacrifice,' said Sir Guy, yet one
must lament it.

'It was done in a hasty spirit of independence,' said Mrs. Edmonstone; 'I believe if he had
got a fellowship at Oxford, it would have answered much better.'

'And now that poor Fanny is dead, and Margaret married, there is all his expensive education
thrown away, and all for nothing,' said Mr. Edmonstone.

'Ah,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, 'he planned for them to go on living at Stylehurst, so that it
would still have been his home. It is a great pity, for his talent is thrown away, and he is
not fond of his profession.'

'You must not suppose, though, that he is not a practical man,' said Mr. Edmonstone; 'I had
rather take his opinion than any one's, especially about a horse, and there is no end to what
I hear about his good sense, and the use he is of to the other young men.'

'You should tell about Mr. Thorndale, papa,' said Laura.

'Ah that is a feather in master Philip's cap; besides, he is your neighbour--at least, his
father is.'

'I suppose you know Lord Thorndale?' said Mrs. Edmonstone, in explanation.

'I have seen him once at the Quarter Sessions,' said Sir Guy; 'but he lives on the other side
of Moorworth, and there was no visiting.'

'Well, this youth, James Thorndale, the second son, was Philip's fag.'

'Philip says he was always licking him!' interposed Charlotte.'

'He kept him out of some scrape or other, continued Mr. Edmonstone. 'Lord Thorndale was very
much obliged to him, had him to stay at his house, took pretty much to him altogether. It was
through him that Philip applied for his commission, and he has put his son into the same regiment,
on purpose to have him under Philip's eye. There he is at Broadstone, as gentlemanlike a youth
as I would wish to see. We will have him to dinner some day, and Maurice too--eh, mamma? Maurice--he
is a young Irish cousin of my own, a capital fellow at the bottom, but a regular thoroughgoing
rattle. That was my doing. I told his father that he could not do better than put him into
the --th. Nothing like a steady friend and a good example, I said, and Kilcoran always takes
my advice, and I don't think he has been sorry. Maurice has kept much more out of scrapes of late.'

'O papa,' exclaimed Charlotte, 'Maurice has been out riding on a hired horse, racing with Mr.
Gordon, and the horse tumbled down at the bottom of East-hill, and broke its knees.'

'That's the way,' said Mr. Edmonstone, 'the instant my back is turned.'

Thereupon the family fell into a discussion of home affairs, and thought little more of their
silent guest.

CHAPTER 3

     The hues of bliss more brightly glow
     Chastised by sober tints of woe.
                                 --GRAY

'What use shall I make of him?' said Charles to himself, as he studied Sir Guy Morville, who
sat by the table, with a book in his hand.

He had the unformed look of a growing boy, and was so slender as to appear taller than he really
was. He had an air of great activity; and though he sat leaning back, there was no lounging
in his attitude, and at the first summons he roused up with an air of alert attention that
recalled to mind the eager head of a listening greyhound. He had no pretension to be called
handsome; his eyes were his best feature; they were very peculiar, of a light hazel, darker
towards the outside of the iris, very brilliant, the whites tinted with blue, and the lashes
uncommonly thick and black; the eyebrows were also very dark, and of a sharply-defined angular
shape, but the hair was much lighter, loose, soft, and wavy; the natural fairness of the complexion
was shown by the whiteness of the upper part of the forehead, though the rest of the face,
as well as the small taper hands, were tanned by sunshine and sea-breezes, into a fresh, hardy
brown, glowing with red on the cheeks.

'What use shall I make of him?' proceeded Charles's thoughts. 'He won't be worth his salt if
he goes on in this way; he has got a graver specimen of literature there than I ever saw Philip
himself read on a week-day; he has been puritanized till he is good for nothing; I'll trouble
myself no more about him!' He tried to read, but presently looked up again. 'Plague! I can't
keep my thoughts off him. That sober look does not sit on that sun-burnt face as if it were
native to it; those eyes don't look as if the Redclyffe spirit was extinguished.'

Mrs. Edmonstone came in, and looking round, as if to find some occupation for her guest, at
length devised setting him to play at chess with Charles. Charles gave her an amiable look,
expressing that neither liked it; but she was pretty well used to doing him good against his
will, and trusted to its coming right in time. Charles was a capital chess-player, and seldom
found any one who could play well enough to afford him much real sport, but he found Sir Guy
more nearly a match than often fell to his lot; it was a bold dashing game, that obliged him
to be on his guard, and he was once so taken by surprise as to be absolutely check-mated. His
ill-humour evaporated, he was delighted to find an opponent worth playing with, and henceforth
there were games almost every morning or evening, though Sir Guy seemed not to care much about
them, except for the sake of pleasing him.

When left to himself, Guy spent his time in reading or in walking about the lanes alone. He
used to sit in the bay-window of the drawing-room with his book; but sometimes, when they least
expected it, the girls would find his quick eyes following them with an air of amused curiosity,
as Amabel waited on Charles and her flowers, or Laura drew, wrote letters, and strove to keep
down the piles of books and periodicals under which it seemed as if her brother might some
day be stifled--a vain task, for he was sure to want immediately whatever she put out of his reach.

Laura and Amabel both played and sung, the former remarkably well, and the first time they
had any music after the arrival of Sir Guy, his look of delighted attention struck everyone.
He ventured nearer, stood by the piano when they practised, and at last joined in with a few
notes of so full and melodious a voice, that Laura turned round in surprise, exclaiming, 'You
sing better I than any of us!'

He coloured. 'I beg your pardon,' he said, 'I could not help it; I know nothing of music.'

'Really!' said Laura, smiling incredulously.

'I don't even know the notes.'

'Then you must have a very good ear. Let us try again.'

The sisters were again charmed and surprised, and Guy looked gratified, as people do at the
discovery of a faculty which they are particularly glad to possess. It was the first time he
appeared to brighten, and Laura and her mother agreed that it would do him good to have plenty
of music, and to try to train that fine voice. He was beginning to interest them all greatly
by his great helpfulness and kindness to Charles, as he learnt the sort of assistance he required,
as well as by the silent grief that showed how much attached he must have been to his grandfather.

On the first Sunday, Mrs. Edmonstone coming into the drawing-room at about half-past five,
found him sitting alone by the fire, his dog lying at his feet. As he started up, she asked
if he had been here in the dark ever since church-time?

'I have not wanted light,' he answered with a sigh, long, deep, and irrepressible, and as she
stirred the fire, the flame revealed to her the traces of tears. She longed to comfort him,
and said--

'This Sunday twilight is a quiet time for thinking.'

'Yes,' he said; 'how few Sundays ago--' and there he paused.

'Ah! you had so little preparation.'

'None. That very morning he had done business with Markham, and had never been more clear and
collected.'

'Were you with him when he was taken ill?' asked Mrs. Edmonstone, perceiving that it would
be a relief to him to talk.

'No; it was just before dinner. I had been shooting, and went into the library to tell him
where I had been. He was well then, for he spoke, but it was getting dark, and I did not see
his face. I don't think I was ten minutes dressing, but when I came down, he had sunk back
in his chair. I saw it was not sleep--I rang--and when Arnaud came, we knew how it was.' His,
voice became low with strong emotion.'

'Did he recover his consciousness?'

'Yes, that was the comfort,' said Guy, eagerly. 'It was after he had been bled that he seemed
to wake up. He could not speak or move, but he looked at me--or--I don't know what I should
have done.' The last words were almost inaudible from the gush of tears that he vainly struggled
to repress, and he was turning away to hide them, when he saw that Mrs. Edmonstone's were flowing
fast.

'You had great reason to be attached to him!' said she, as soon as she could speak.

'Indeed, indeed I had.' And after a long silence--'He was everything to me, everything from
the first hour I can recollect. He never let me miss my parents. How he attended to all my
pleasures and wishes, how he watched and cared for me, and bore with me, even I can never know.'

He spoke in short half sentences of intense feeling, and Mrs. Edmonstone was much moved by
such affection in one said to have been treated with an excess of strictness, much compassionating
the lonely boy, who had lost every family tie in one.

'When the first pain of the sudden parting has passed,' said she, 'you will like to remember
the affection which you knew how to value.'

'If I had but known!' said Guy; 'but there was I, hasty, reckless, disregarding his comfort,
rebelling against--O, what would I not give to have those restraints restored!'

'It is what we all feel in such losses,' said Mrs. Edmonstone. 'There is always much to wish
otherwise; but I am sure you can have the happiness of knowing you were his great comfort.'

'It was what I ought to have been.'

She knew that nothing could have been more filial and affectionate than his conduct, and tried
to say something of the kind, but he would not listen.

'That is worst of all,' he said; 'and you must not trust what they say of me. They would be
sure to praise me, if I was anything short of a brute.'

A silence ensued, while Mrs. Edmonstone was trying to think of some consolation. Suddenly Guy
looked up, and spoke eagerly:--

'I want to ask something--a great favour--but you make me venture. You see how I am left alone--you
know how little I can trust myself. Will you take me in hand--let me talk to you--and tell
me if I am wrong, as freely as if I were Charles? I know it is asking a great deal, but you
knew my grandfather, and it is in his name.'

She held out her hand; and with tears answered--

'Indeed I will, if I see any occasion.'

'You will let me trust to you to tell me when I get too vehement? above all, when you see my
temper failing? Thank you; you don't know what a relief it is!'

'But you must not call yourself alone. You are one of us now.'

'Yes; since you have made that promise,' said Guy; and for the first time she saw the full
beauty of his smile--a sort of sweetness and radiance of which eye and brow partook almost
as much as the lips. It alone would have gained her heart.

'I must look on you as a kind of nephew,' she added, kindly. 'I used to hear so much of you
from my brother.'

'Oh!' cried Guy, lighting up, 'Archdeacon Morville was always so kind to me. I remember him
very well!'

'Ah! I wish--' there she paused, and added,--tête-à-tête 'it is not right to wish such things--and
Philip is very like his father.'

'I am very glad his regiment is so near. I want to know him better.'

'You knew him at Redclyffe, when he was staying there?'

'Yes,' said Guy, his colour rising; 'but I was a boy then, and a very foolish, headstrong one.
I am glad to meet him again. What a grand-looking person he is!'

'We are very proud of him,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, smiling. 'I don't think there has been an
hour's anxiety about him since he was born.'

The conversation was interrupted by the sound of Charles's crutches slowly crossing the hall.
Guy sprang to help him to his sofa, and then, without speaking, hurried up-stairs.

'Mamma, tete-a-tete with the silent one!' exclaimed Charles.

'I will not tell you all I think of him,' said she, leaving the room.

'Hum!' soliloquised Charles. 'That means that my lady mother has adopted him, and thinks I
should laugh at her, or straightway set up a dislike to him, knowing my contempt for heroes
and hero-worship. It's a treat to have Philip out of the way, and if it was but possible to
get out of hearing of his perfection, I should have some peace. If I thought this fellow had
one spice of the kind, I'd never trouble my head about him more; and yet I don't believe he
has such a pair of hawk's eyes for nothing!'

The hawk's eyes, as Charles called them, shone brighter from that day forth, and their owner
began to show more interest in what passed around. Laura was much amused by a little conversation
she held with him one day when a party of their younger neighbours were laughing and talking
nonsense round Charles's sofa. He was sitting a little way off in silence, and she took advantage
of the loud laughing to say:

'You think this is not very satisfactory?' And as he gave a quick glance of inquiry--'Don't
mind saying so. Philip and I often agree that it is a pity spend so much time in laughing at
nothing--at such nonsense.'

'It is nonsense?'

'Listen--no don't, it is too silly.'

'Nonsense must be an excellent thing if it makes people so happy,' said Guy thoughtfully. 'Look
at them; they are like--not a picture--that has no life--but a dream--or, perhaps a scene in
a play.'

'Did you never see anything like it?'

'Oh, no! All the morning calls I ever saw were formal, every one stiff, and speaking by rote,
or talking politics. How glad I used to be to get on horseback again! But to see these--why,
it is like the shepherd's glimpse at the pixies!--as one reads a new book, or watches what
one only half understands--a rook's parliament, or a gathering of sea-fowl on the Shag Rock.'

'A rook's parliament?'

'The people at home call it a rook's parliament when a whole cloud of rooks settle on some
bare, wide common, and sit there as if they were consulting, not feeding, only stalking about,
with drooping wings, and solemn, black cloaks.'

'You have found a flattering simile,' said Laura, 'as you know that rooks never open their
mouths without cause.'

Guy had never heard the riddle, but he caught the pun instantly, and the clear merry sound
of his hearty laugh surprised Charles, who instantly noted it as another proof that was some
life in him.

Indeed, each day began to make it evident that he had, on the whole, rather a superabundance
of animation than otherwise. He was quite confidential with Mrs. Edmonstone, on whom he used
to lavish, with boyish eagerness, all that interested him, carrying her the passages in books
that pleased him, telling her about Redclyffe's affairs, and giving her his letters from Markham,
the steward. His head was full of his horse, Deloraine, which was coming to him under the charge
of a groom, and the consultations were endless about the means of transport, Mr. Edmonstone
almost as eager about it as he was himself.

He did not so quickly become at home with the younger portion of the family, but his spirits
rose every day. He whistled as he walked in the garden, and Bustle, instead of pacing soberly
behind him, now capered, nibbled his pockets, and drew him into games of play which Charles
and Amabel were charmed to overlook from the dressing-room window. There was Guy leaping, bounding,
racing, rolling the dog over, tripping him up, twitching his ears, tickling his feet, catching
at his tail, laughing at Bustle's springs, contortions, and harmless open-mouthed attacks,
while the dog did little less than laugh too, with his intelligent amber eyes, and black and
red mouth. Charles began to find a new interest in his listless life in the attempt to draw
Guy out, and make him give one of his merry laughs. In this, however, he failed when his wit
consisted in allusions to the novels of the day, of which Guy knew nothing. One morning he
underwent a regular examination, ending in--

'Have you read anything?'

'I am afraid I am very ignorant of modern books.'

'Have you read the ancient ones?' asked Laura.

'I've had nothing else to read.'

'Nothing to read but ancient books!' exclaimed Amabel, with a mixture of pity and astonishment.

'Sanchoniathon, Manetho, Berosus, and Ocellus Lucanus!' said Guy, smiling.

'There, Amy,' said Charles, 'if he has the Vicar of Wakefield among his ancient books, you
need not pity him.'

'It is like Philip,' said Laura; 'he was brought up on the old standard books, instead of his
time being frittered away on the host of idle modern ones.'

'He was free to concentrate his attention on Sir Charles Grandison,' said Charles.

'How could any one do so?' said Guy. 'How could any one have any sympathy with such a piece
of self-satisfaction?'

'Who could? Eh, Laura?' said Charles.

'I never read it,' said Laura, suspecting malice.

'What is your opinion of perfect heroes?' continued Charles.

'Here comes one,' whispered Amy to her brother, blushing at her piece of naughtiness, as Philip
Morville entered the room.

After the first greetings and inquiries after his sister, whom he had been visiting, Laura
told him what they had been saying of the advantage of a scanty range of reading.

'True,' said Philip; 'I have often been struck by finding how ignorant people are, even of
Shakspeare; and I believe the blame chiefly rests on the cheap rubbish in which Charlie is
nearly walled up there.'

'Ay,' said Charles, 'and who haunts that rubbish at the beginning of every month? I suppose
to act as pioneer, though whether any one but Laura heeds his warnings, remains to be proved.'

'Laura does heed?' asked Philip, well pleased.

'I made her read me the part of Dombey that hurts women's feelings most, just to see if she
would go on--the part about little Paul--and I declare, I shall think the worse of her ever
after--she was so stony hearted, that to this day she does not know whether he is dead or alive.'

'I can't quite say I don't know whether he lived or died,' said Laura, 'for I found Amy in
a state that alarmed me, crying in the green-house, and I was very glad to find it was nothing
worse than little Paul.'

'I wish you would have read it,' said Amy; and looking shyly at Guy, she added--'Won't you?'

'Well done, Amy!' said Charles. 'In the very face of the young man's companion!'

'Philip does not really think it wrong,' said Amy.

'No,' said Philip; 'those books open fields of thought, and as their principles are negative,
they are not likely to hurt a person well armed with the truth.'

'Meaning,' said Charles, 'that Guy and Laura have your gracious permission to read Dombey.'

'When Laura has a cold or toothache.'

'And I,' said Guy.

'I am not sure about, the expediency for you,' said Philip 'it would be a pity to begin with
Dickens, when there is so much of a higher grade equally new to you. I suppose you do not understand
Italian?'

'No,' said Guy, abruptly, and his dark eyebrows contracted.

Philip went on. 'If you did, I should not recommend you the translation of "I promessi Sponsi,"
one of the most beautiful books in any language. You have it in English, I think, Laura.'

Laura fetched it; Guy, with a constrained 'thank you,' was going to take it up rather as if
he was putting a force upon himself, when Philip more quickly took the first volume, and eagerly
turned over the pages--I can't stand this,' he said, 'where is the original?'

It was soon produced; and Philip, finding the beautiful history of Fra Cristoforo, began to
translate it fluently and with an admirable choice of language that silenced Charles's attempts
to interrupt and criticise. Soon Guy, who had at first lent only reluctant attention, was entirely
absorbed, his eyebrows relaxed, a look of earnest interest succeeded, his countenance softened,
and when Fra Cristoforo humbled himself, exchanged forgiveness, and received "il pane del perdono,"
tears hung on his eyelashes.

The chapter was finished, and with a smothered exclamation of admiration, he joined the others
in begging Philip to proceed. The story thus read was very unlike what it had been to Laura
and Amy, when they puzzled it out as an Italian lesson, or to Charles, when he carelessly tossed
over the translation in search of Don Abbondio's humours; and thus between reading and conversation,
the morning passed very agreeably.

At luncheon, Mr. Edmonstone asked Philip to come and spend a day or two at Hollywell, and he
accepted the invitation for the next week. 'I will make Thorndale drive me out if you will
give him a dinner.'

'Of course, of course,' said Mr. Edmonstone, 'we shall be delighted. We were talking of asking
him, a day or two ago; eh, mamma?'

'Thank you,' said Philip; 'a family party is an especial treat to him,' laying a particular
stress on the word 'family party,' and looking at his aunt.

At that moment the butler came in, saying, 'Sir Guy's servant is come, and has brought the
horse, sir.'

'Deloraine come!' cried Guy, springing up. 'Where?'

'At the door, sir.'

Guy darted out, Mr. Edmonstone following. In another instant, however, Guy put his head into
the room again. 'Mrs. Edmonstone, won't you come and see him? Philip, you have not seen Deloraine.'

