BALM OF GILEAD

III. AN ILL WIND

IV. THE KINDNESS OF MISS ROLLS

V. SCENES FOR A "MOVIE"

VI. THE HANDS WITH THE RINGS

VII. THE TWO PETERS

VIII. No. 2884

IX. THE TEST OF CHARACTER

X. PETER ROLLS'S LITTLE WAYS

XI. DEVIL TAKE THE HINDMOST

XII. BLUE PETER

XIII. ONE MAN AND ANOTHER

XIV. FROM SCYLLA TO CHARYBDIS

XV. THE LADY IN THE MOON

XVI. THE SEED ENA PLANTED

XVII. TOYLAND

XVIII. THE BIG BLUFF

XIX. "YES" TO ANYTHING

XX. THE CLOSED HOUSE

XXI. THE TELEPHONE

XXII. THE FRAGRANCE OF FRESIAS

XXIII. MOTHER

XXIV. THINGS EXPLODING

XXV. A PIECE OF HER MIND

XXVI. WHEN THE SECRET CAME OUT

XXVII. THE BATTLE

THE SHOP GIRL

THE SHOP GIRL

CHAPTER I

THE DRYAD DOOR

It was a horrible day at sea, horrible even on board the new and splendid Monarchic. All the
prettiest people had disappeared from the huge dining-saloon. They had turned green, and then
faded away, one by one or in hurried groups; and now the very thought of music at meals made
them sick, in ragtime.

Peter Rolls was never sick in any time or in any weather, which was his one disagreeable, superior-to-others
trick. Most of his qualities were likable, and he was likable, though a queer fellow in some
ways, said his best friends--the ones who called him "Petro." When the ship played that she
was a hobby-horse or a crab (if that is the creature which shares with elderly Germans a specialty
for walking from side to side), also a kangaroo, and occasionally a boomerang, Peter Rolls
did not mind.

He was sorry for the men and girls he knew, including his sister, who lay in deck chairs pretending
to be rugs, or who went to bed and wished themselves in their peaceful graves. But for himself,
the wild turmoil of the waves filled him with sympathetic restlessness. It had never occurred
to Peter that he was imaginative, yet he seemed to know what the white-faced storm was saying,
and to want to shout an answer.

The second morning out (the morning after the Monarchic had to pass Queenstown without taking
on the mails or putting off enraged passengers) Peter thought he would go to the gymnasium
and work up an appetite for luncheon. He had looked in the first day, and had seen a thing
which could give you all the sensations and benefits of a camel ride across the desert. He
had ridden camels in real deserts and liked them. Now he did not see why waves should not answer
just as well as dunes, and was looking forward to the experiment; but he must have been absent-minded,
for when he opened what ought to have been the gymnasium door, it was not the gymnasium door.
It was--good heavens!--what was it?

Peter Rolls, the unimaginative young man, thought that he must be in his berth and dreaming
he was here. For this room that he was looking into could not possibly be a room on a ship,
not even on the Monarchic, that had all the latest, day-after-to-morrow improvements and luxuries.
The very bread was to-morrow's bread; but these marvellous creatures could not be supplied
by the management as improvements or luxuries of any kind. Peter seemed to have opened a door
into a crystal-walled world peopled entirely by dryads.

He thought of dryads, because in pictures, beings called by that name were taller, slimmer,
more graceful, more beautiful, and had longer legs than young females of mortal breed. There
were five of them (at least he believed there were five), and though it was eleven o'clock
in the morning, they were dressed as if for the prince's ball in the story of "Cinderella."
Unless on the stage, Peter had never seen such dresses or such girls.

He heard himself gasp; and afterward, when he and a wave together had banged the door shut,
he hoped that he had said: "I beg your pardon." He was so confused, however, that he was not
at all sure he had not blurted out "Good Lord!"

For a moment he stood as still as the sea would let him in front of the door, burning to open
it again and see if the girls were really there. But, of course, he could not do that. He would
have been almost inclined to believe they were wax figures if they had not moved, but they
had moved.

They had been--sprawling is not a word to use in connection with dryads--yet certainly reclining,
in easy chairs and on sofas, and had started up as the door opened to stare at him. One had
laughed. Peter had shut the door on her laugh. He had brought away a vague impression that
chairs, sofas, and carpet were pale gray, and that the dryads' dresses of wonderful tints,
sparkling with gold and silver and jewels, had been brilliant as tropical flowers against the
neutral background. Also, when he came to think of it, he wasn't sure that the walls were not
mostly made of mirrors. That was why he could not be certain whether he had seen five dryads
or five times five.

"The dryad door," he apostrophized it romantically, keeping his balance by standing with his
feet apart, as old men stand before a fire. It was a very ordinary-looking door, and that made
the romance for Peter in giving it such a name--just a white-painted door, so new that it smelled
slightly of varnish--yet behind it lay dreamland.

Of course Peter Rolls knew that the tall, incredibly lovely beings were not dryads and not
dreams, although they wore low necks, and pearls and diamonds in their wonderful, waved hair,
at eleven o'clock of a stormy morning on board an Atlantic liner. Still, he was blessed if
he could think what they were, and what they were doing in that room of mirrors without any
furniture which he could recall, except a very large screen, a few chairs, and a sofa or two.

The next best thing to the forbidden one--opening the door again to ask the beings point-blank
whether they were pipe dreams or just mermaids--was to go on to the gymnasium and inquire there.
Toward this end young Mr. Rolls (as he was respectfully called in a business house never mentioned
by his sister) immediately took steps. But taking steps was as far as he got. Suddenly it seemed
a deed you could not do, to demand of an imitation-camel's attendant why five young ladies
wore evening dress in the morning in a room three doors away.

After all, why should a camel attendant dare to know anything about them? Perhaps they were
merely amusing themselves and each other by trying on all their gladdest clothes. There might
be girls who would think this a good way to kill time in a storm. Yes, conceivably there might
be such girls, just as there might be sea serpents; but, though Peter Rolls was too shy to
have learned much about the female of his species, the explanation did not appeal to his reason.

His mind would persist in making a mystery of the mirror-walled room with its five dazzling
occupants, and even the bumpings of the imitation camel could not jerk out of his head speculations
which played around the dryad door. He was as curious as Fatima herself, and with somewhat
the same curiosity; for, except that in one case the beautiful ladies had their heads, and
in the other had lost them, there was a hint of resemblance between the two mysteries.

Peter Rolls wondered whether he would like to ask his sister Ena if she knew the visions, or
even if, being a woman, she could form any theory to account for them. It would be interesting
to see what she would say; but then, unless she were too seasick, she would probably laugh,
and perhaps tell Lord Raygan.

As for the visions themselves, only one had spirit enough left in her to be able to laugh at
being thought a dryad or a mystery. She alone of the five would have known what "dryad" means.
And she could always laugh, no matter how miserable or how sick she was.

That day she was very sick indeed. They were all very sick, but she could not help seeing,
at her worst, that it was funny.

"For heaven's sake, what are you giggling at?" snapped the longest, slimmest, most abnormal
dryad, diaphanously draped in yellow, when she could gasp out an intelligible sentence after
an exhausting bout of agony.

"Us," said the girl who could always laugh, a vision in silver.

"Us? I don't see anything funny about us!" groaned a tall dream in crimson and purple.

"Funny! I should think not!" snorted a fantasy in emerald.

"It makes me worse to hear you laugh," squealed a radiance in rose.

"I wish we were all dead, especially Miss Child," snarled the last of the five, a symphony
in black and all conceivable shades of blue. Because of this combination, the Miss Child in
question had named her the "Bruise."

"Sorry! I'll try not to laugh again till the sea goes down," Miss Child apologized. "I wasn't
laughing at any of you exactly, it was more the whole situation: us, dressed like stars of
the Russian ballet and sick as dogs, pearls in our hair and basins in our hands, looking like
queens and feeling like dolls with our stuffing gone."

"Don't speak of stuffing. It makes me think of sage and onions," quavered the tallest queen.

"Ugh!" they all groaned, except Winifred Child, who was to blame for starting the subject.
"Ugh! Oh! Ugh!"

When they were better they lay back on their sofas, or leaned back in their chairs, their beautiful--or
meant to be beautiful--faces pale, their eyes shut. And it was at this moment that Peter Rolls
burst open the door.

As he had observed, the waxlike figures moved, sat upright, and stared. This sudden disturbance
of brain balance made them all giddy, but the surprise of seeing a man, not a steward, at the
door, was so great that for a moment or two it acted as a tonic. Nothing dreadful happened
to any one of the five until after the smooth black head had been withdrawn and the door closed.

"A man!" breathed Miss Devereux, the abnormally tall girl in yellow chiffon over gold gauze.

"Yes, dear. I wonder what he wanted?" sighed Miss Carroll, the girl in rose.

The one in green was Miss Tyndale, the one in black and blue Miss Vedrine, all very becoming
labels; and if they had Christian names of equal distinction to match, the alien known at home
simply as "Win" had never heard them. They called each other Miss Devereux, Miss Carroll, Miss
Tyndale, and Miss Vedrine, or else "dear."

"I wish we could think he wanted to see us!" remarked Miss Tyndale.

"I hope he didn't notice the basins," added Miss Vedrine

"I think we hid them with our trains," said Miss Carroll.

"Was he nice looking?" Miss Vedrine had courage to ask. She had wonderful red hair, only a
little darker at the roots, and long, straight black eyelashes. A few of these had come off
on her cheeks, but they were not noticeable at a distance.

"I don't know, I'm sure, dear," replied Miss Devereux, a fawn-eyed brunette, who was nearest
the door. "There wasn't time to see. I just thought: 'Good heavens! have we got to parade?'
Then, 'No, thank goodness, it's a man!' And he was gone."

"What should we do if a woman did come, and we had to get up?" wondered Miss Vedrine, whose
great specialty was her profile and length of white throat.

"She wouldn't be a woman; she'd be a monster, to care about clothes in weather like this,"
pronounced the golden-haired Miss Carroll. "Parade indeed! I wouldn't. I'd simply lie down
and expire."

"I feel I've never till now sympathized enough with the animals in the ark," said Miss Child,
who had not chosen her own name, or else had shown little taste in selection, compared with
the others. But she was somehow different, rather subtly different, from them in all ways;
not so elaborately refined, not so abnormally tall, not so startlingly picturesque. "One always
thinks of the ark animals in a procession, poor dears--showing off their fur or their stripes
or their spots or something--just like us."

"Speak for yourself, if you talk about spots, please," said Miss Devereux, who never addressed
Miss Child as "dear," nor did the others.

"I was thinking of leopards," explained the fifth dryad. "They're among the few things you
can think of without being sick."

"I can't," said Miss Devereux, and was. They all were, and somehow Miss Child seemed to be
the one to blame.

"We were just getting better!" wailed Miss Vedrine.

"It was only a momentary excitement that cheered us," suggested Winifred Child.

"What excitement?" they all wanted indignantly to know.

"That man looking in."

"Do you call that an excitement? Where have you lived?"

"Well, a surprise, then. But would we have been better if it had been madame who looked in?"

The picture called up by this question was so appalling that they shuddered and forgot their
little grudge against Miss Child, who was not so bad when you were feeling well, except that
she had odd ways of looking at things, and laughed when nobody else could see anything to laugh at.

"Thank heaven, she's a bad sailor!" Miss Devereux cried.

"Thank heaven, all the other women on board are bad sailors," added Win.

"If madame was well she'd think we ought to be," said Miss Carroll. "She'd dock our pay every
time we--- Oh, this is bad enough, but if she was well it would be a million times worse!"

"Could anything be worse?" Miss Tyndale pitifully questioned, for just then the ship was sliding
down the side of a wave as big as a millionaire's house.

"Yes, it would be worse if we were wearing our waists slender this year," said Win.

"Down, down, wallow, wallow, jump!" was the program the Monarchic carried out for the twentieth
time in half as many minutes. Slender waists! Oh, horrible to think of, unless you broke in
two and death ended your troubles!

"Let's try breathing in as she goes up and out as she goes down. I've heard that works wonderfully,"
said Win.

They tried, but it worked disappointingly that time. Perhaps it was the ship's fault. It was
impossible to time her antics with the most careful breathing.

"Oh, why did we leave our peaceful homes?" moaned Miss Vedrine.

"I didn't," whispered Win.

"Didn't what?"

"Leave my peaceful home. If I'd had one I shouldn't be here."

This was the first time she had volunteered or had had dragged out of her a word concerning
her past. But at the moment no one could be keyed to interest in anything except preparation
for the next wave.

In the veranda cafe Peter Rolls was asking his sister Ena if she knew anything about five incredibly
beautiful girls in evening dress shut up together in a room with walls made of mirrors.

Ena Rolls was not in a mood to answer irrelevant questions, especially from a brother; but
Lord Raygan and his sister were there, and pricked up their ears at the hint of a mystery.
She could not be cross and ask Peter kindly to go to the devil and not talk rot, as she would
have done if the others had been somewhere else. But then, were it not for Lord Raygan and
his sister and mother, Miss Rolls would be flat in her berth.

"Five incredibly beautiful girls in evening dress!" repeated Lord Raygan, who, like Peter,
was a good sailor.

Ena Rolls wanted him to be interested in her, and not in five preposterous persons in evening
dress, so she replied promptly to Peter's question: "I suppose they must be Nadine's living
models. We all had cards about their being on board and the hours of their parade to show the
latest fashions. You saw the card, I suppose, Lady Eileen?"

"Yes," returned Lord Raygan's flapper sister. "It's on the writing-desk in that darling sitting-room
you've given Mubs and me."

Ena felt rewarded for her sacrifice. She and Peter had engaged the best suite on board the
Monarchic, but when Lord Raygan and his mother and sister were borne past Queenstown in most
unworthy cabins (two very small ones between the three), Ena had given up her own and Peter's
room to the two ladies. It was a Providential chance to make their acquaintance and win their
gratitude. (She had met Raygan in Egypt and London, and sailed on the Monarchic in consequence.)

"The stewardess told me before I moved down," she went on, "that Mme. Nadine had taken the
ship's nursery this trip for her show, and fitted it with wardrobes and mirror doors at immense
expense. I'm afraid she won't get her money back if this storm lasts. Who could gaze at living
models?"

"I could, if they're as beautiful as your brother says," replied Lord Raygan, a tall, lanky,
red-headed Irishman with humorous eyes and a heavy jaw. He was the first earl Ena had ever
met, but she prayed fervently that he might not be the last.

Peter somehow did not want those pale dryads sacrificed to make a Raygan holiday. He regretted
having remarked on their beauty. "They looked more like dying than living models when I saw
them," he said.

"Let's go and see what they look like now," suggested Raygan. "Eh, what, Miss Rolls?"

"I don't know if men can go," she hesitated.

"Who's to stop them? Why shouldn't I be wanting to buy one of the dresses off their backs for
my sister?"

"What a melting idea! You do, don't you, dear boy?" the flapper encouraged him.

"I might. Come along, Miss Rolls. Come along, Eily. What about you, Rolls? Will you guide us?"

"Let's wait till after lunch," said Ena. She hoped that it might disagree with everybody, and
then they would not want to go.

"Oh, no!" pleaded Lady Eileen O'Neill. "We may be dead after luncheon, and probably will be.
Or Rags'll change his mind about the dress. Nadine's dresses are too heavenly. I've never seen
any except on the stage, worn by wonderful, thin giantesses. All her gowns are named, you know,
Rags: 'Dawn,' or 'Sunset,' or 'Love in Spring,' or 'Passion in Twilight,' and poetic things
like that."

"Can't be very poetic bein' sick in 'em, by Jove! for those girls in the nursery," remarked
Rags, "especially if they've got a sense of humour."

(One of them had. The shimmering sheath of silver and chiffon she wore to-day, as it happened,
rejoiced in the name of "First Love." It was all white. She was being very careful of its virginal
purity; but it occurred to her that unless the sea's passion died, the frock would soon have
to be renamed "Second Love," or even "Slighted Affection," if not "Rejected Addresses.")

Urged by Eileen, who would think her a "pig" if she refused, Ena reluctantly uncurled herself
from a safe and graceful position on a cushioned sofa. The result was alarming. Her swimming
head warned her that if she did not instantly sit down again something too awful to think of
in the presence of an earl would happen.

"You'd better go without me. I'm not very keen," she faintly explained, appealing to Peter
with her eyes.

He contrived to understand without asking stupid questions, as some brothers would, and hurried
the others off to the room of the mirrors. No longer was it a room of mystery; yet romance,
once awakened, cannot be put to sleep in a minute, and Peter Rolls's heart beat with excitement
or shyness, he was not sure which, as Lady Eileen O'Neill knocked at the dryad door.

CHAPTER II

BALM OF GILEAD

It was the worst possible moment for the dryads. But when their tear-wet eyes beheld a girl
and two men, some deep-down primordial pride of womanhood rushed to their rescue and, flowing
through their veins, performed a miracle beyond the power of any patent remedy. The five forlorn
girls became at need the five stately goddesses Mme. Nadine paid them to be. (Winifred Child,
by the way, was not paid, for she was not a goddess by profession. But she got her passage
free. It was for that she was goddessing.)

Miss Devereux was the leader, by virtue, not of extra age, no indeed! but of height, manner,
and experience. She apologized, with the most refined accent, for Mme. Nadine, who was "quite
prostrated"; for Mme. Nadine's manageress, who was even worse; and for themselves. "I'm afraid
we must do the best we can alone," she finished with unconscious pathos.

"It's a shame to disturb you," said Peter Rolls.

Miss Devereux and her attendant dryads turned their eyes to him. They had fancied that he was
the man who had burst in before and burst out again; now they were sure. If he had been a woman,
they would have borne him a grudge for coming back and bringing companions worse than himself;
but as he was a man, young, and not bad looking, they forgave him meekly.

They forgave the other man for the same reason, and forgave the girl because she was with the
men. If only they could behave themselves as young ladies should through this ordeal! That
was the effort on which they must concentrate their minds and other organs.

"Not at all," returned Miss Devereux, every inch a princess. "We are here to be disturbed."
(Alas, how true!)

She smiled at Lady Eileen, but not patronizingly, because a mysterious instinct told her that
the plain, pleasant young girl in Irish tweed was a "swell." The men, too, were swells, or
important in some way or other. One exerted one's self to be charming to such people and to
keep the male members of the party from looking at the other girls. "Would you like to see
something else, different from what we are showing? Evening cloaks? Day dresses? We have a
number of smart little afternoon frocks---"

"I think that white dress is the meltingest thing I ever saw," said Lady Eileen, who had walked
into the room without waiting for Miss Devereux's answer to Peter Rolls's objection.

She was a kind-hearted girl, but, after all, living models were living models until they were
dead, and she wasn't going to lose the chance of getting a dreamy frock out of Rags! All the
goddesses were on their mettle and their feet now, though swaying like tall lilies in a high
wind and occasionally bracing themselves against mirrors, while Lady Eileen was in the biggest
chair, with Raygan and Peter Rolls standing behind her. The men also were offered chairs by
Miss Vedrine with a lovely play of eyelashes, but refused them: the chairs, not the eyelashes,
which no man could have spurned, despite their scattered effect.

"The white dress, moddam?" (It thrills a flapper to be called "moddam.") "It is one of the
latest designs and considered perfect for a débutante. No doubt you know it is Mme. Nadine's
custom to name her inspirations. Come here, if you please, Miss Child! This is 'First Love.'"

"Looks like it," remarked Lord Raygan, as Miss Child obeyed. He might have meant the wearer
or the dress. Peter Rolls flashed a gimlet glance his way to see which. He felt uncomfortably
responsible for the manners of the visitors and the feelings of the visited. But the face of
Rags was grave, and no offence could be taken. Peter Rolls withdrew the glance, though not
before Winifred Child had it intercepted and interpreted.

"I believe he's a nice fellow," was the thought that slid through her mind as, like a chicken
on a spit, she turned and turned to let Lady Eileen behold "First Love" from every point of view.

"Rippin', but a foot too tall for you," said Rags, more because it amused him to prolong the
scene than through a real desire to criticise. "You don't go in for bein' a sylph."

Another backhanded compliment for the wearer, if she cared to accept it; but she was beautifully
unconscious and, for once, not laughing. Her eyes looked miles away. Peter Rolls wondered to
what land she had gone.

The girl appeared to be gazing over his head; but, as a matter of fact, she could see him perfectly.
He had black hair and blue eyes, shrewd perhaps, yet they might be kind and merry; just now
they looked worried. She thought him not handsome, but tanned and thin (she detested fat men)
and somehow nice. Win wondered if she were taller than he. She hated being taller than men,
though she owed her present engagement to her height and length of limb.

Miss Devereux respectfully argued that appearances were deceitful. Moddam was quite as sylphlike
as the model. Might the dress be sent to moddam's cabin to try? Then it came out that moddam
was Lady Eileen O'Neill, and the four tallest dryads visibly brightened, not so much for the
owner of the name as for her brother.

Their dull days had been dimly lightened by gossip on the ship, brought to them by a stewardess
from Lord Raygan's native isle, who knew all about him: that he was an earl, that with his
mother and sister he had booked from Liverpool to Queenstown, but, owing to the ferocity of
the sea, had been unable to land and was being carried to America. Also that a rich young American
and his sister had given up their suite to the ladies. This American was said to be of no birth,
the son of some big shopkeeper, and far, far outside even the fringe of the Four Hundred; therefore
the tallest dryads did their best eyelash work for Lord Raygan. They were born British, hailing
from Brixton or other suburban health resorts, and now they knew he was a "lord" the nickname
of "Rags," which had sickened them at first, seemed interesting and intimate as a domestic
anecdote about royalty.

Rags consented to buy the dress for his sister if it fitted and didn't cost a million pounds.
The dryads thought this adorably generous, for the stewardess, who knew all about Lord Raygan,
said that the "family had become impoverished; they were not what they had once been except
in name, which was of the best and oldest in Ireland." Stewardesses can tell all the things
that Marconi does not mention.

When the sale was settled Miss Devereux turned to Peter Rolls. "And you, sir?" she asked, slightly
coquettish because he was a man, though not of the Four Hundred. "I suppose there's nothing
we can do for you?"

"I suppose not," Peter was echoing, when something occurred to him. "Unless," he amended, "my
sister would like to buy a dress. She's on board."

"Would she care to look at Mme. Nadine's designs?" suggested Miss Devereux. "We have wardrobes
full of marvellous inspirations."

"The trouble is, she feels queer if she walks around much," said Peter.

"Perhaps she would trust you to pick out something she might see in her own room? Is she tall
or short?"

"Not so tall as any of you."

"Things which would fit this young lady would be the best, then. Miss Child, Miss Vedrine will
help you out of 'First Love' behind the screen and put you into the 'Young Moon.' What"--sotto
voce--"are you laughing at this time?"

"Nothing," said the smallest dryad meekly, though she gurgled under her breath.

"We'd better go now, and I'll come back," hastily suggested Peter. "Don't bother to change
behind the screen for us, please. I must ask my sister about the dress."

He got the others out, which was not difficult as far as Eileen was concerned. She could hardly
wait to try "First Love."

Rags was determined to ask Miss Rolls if he shouldn't choose a frock for her. But she said
no, she didn't want one. This would have seemed to settle the matter, and did for Lord Raygan,
who sat down beside her, abandoning further thought of the dryads. Peter, however, returned
in due course to the room of the mirrors, because Miss Child could not be allowed to get into
the "Young Moon" in such weather for nothing.

She was in it when he arrived. And pluck, mingled with excitement, having had a truly bracing
effect on the girls, in the absence of the peer they were nice to the plebeian. The girl in
the "Young Moon," to be sure, had scarcely anything to say, but she had a peculiarly fascinating
way of not saying it.

By the time Mr. Rolls had bought the "Moon" for his sister, he had become quite friendly with
the other dryads, on the strength of a few simple jokes about green cheese and blue moons and
never having dreamed he could obtain one by crying for it.

"I was wondering," he said at last, when he was about to go, "whether you'd care for me to
bring you some Balm of Gilead?"

"Balm of Gilead?" all five, even the girl in the "Moon," exclaimed.

"Yes. Stuff for seasickness. Not that you are seasick of course. But the balm's a good preventive.
Did you never hear of it?"

They shook their heads.

"It's the great thing our side of the water. I don't need it myself, but I know it's all right,
because it's making my father a fortune."

"Did he invent it?" inquired Miss Carroll.

"No. But he named it and he sells it. It's the men who name things and sell things, not the
ones who invent them, that get the money. My father is Peter Rolls, and I---"

"I hope you spell Rolls with an 'e,'" broke in Miss Vedrine. "Else it would remind me of something
I want to forget."

"Something you--But maybe I can guess! What the ship does now?"

"Don't speak of it!" they groaned.

"I won't! Or my name, either, if you'd rather not, especially as only my sister spells it with
an 'e.' I mentioned the name on account of the balm. The barber has no end of bottles. I'll
go and buy you one now. It tastes good. Back in ten minutes." And he was gone.

"His father must be a chemist," sniffed Miss Devereux, as she unhooked the "Young Moon."

When Peter returned Miss Child was wearing a robe like an illuminated cobweb on a background
of violets. This was the "Yielding Heart." Peter had brought a bottle and a clean napkin and
five teaspoons. "I got these things off a dining-room steward," he explained.

"Sounds like a conjurer," murmured the girl who laughed.

"How rude of you!" Miss Devereux scolded in a whisper. "Don't mind her, Mr. Rolls. She isn't
a bit like the rest of us."

Peter had noticed that.

"She's always laughing at everything, and everybody, too," went on Miss Devereux.

"She's welcome to laugh at me," said Peter. "I enjoy it."

"Ladies don't. She'd never do for a permanence with Mme. Nadine. Clients wouldn't stand being
grinned at by models."

"I don't laugh at people. I laugh at the world," the model defended herself.

"Why?" inquired Peter, with a straight look at the queer, arresting face.

"To keep it from laughing at me first. And to make it laugh with me--if I can."

"Do you think you can?"

"I shall try hard--against the biggest odds. And whatever it does to me, I shan't cry."

"I shouldn't wonder if that wasn't the whole secret of life!" said Peter Rolls, continuing
to look at the face.

Suddenly it flashed a smile at him. "Shouldn't you? Give me the Balm of Gilead, and the rest
would be easy!"

Peter was not stupid as a rule, yet he could not be quite sure what she meant. If he guessed
right, the rest wasn't as easy as she thought. Yet the words made him wish that he could give
the girl who laughed--the girl who was not to be a "permanence" with Nadine--more than a teaspoonful
of balm.

CHAPTER III

AN ILL WIND

While the storm held, Peter Rolls went several times each dreadful day to the room of the mirrors
and dosed his dryads with Balm of Gilead. The medicine--or something else--sustained them marvellously.
And it occurred to Peter that they would make a magnificent advertisement, if there were any
way of using them--the kind of advertisement his father loved.

It was well that Peter senior was not on board, or he would certainly propose a new feature
for the balm department: scene, richly furnished salon on a yacht; five fair effects in ball
dresses sipping Balm of Gilead; the whole arrangement on a rocking platform, with mechanism
hidden by realistically painted waves. But the dryads were previously engaged by the prostrate
Nadine--all except one.

When they were sufficiently restored to take an interest, Peter smuggled grapefruit, chocolates,
and novels into the nursery. The novels his sister had brought with her to kill time during
the voyage; but as it happened, she was killing it with Lord Raygan instead and never missed
the books.

Nadine had been obliged to take first-class tickets for her models; otherwise the rules of
the ship would not have allowed them past the barrier, even in the pursuit of business. But
they sardined in one cabin, near the bow, on the deepest down deck allotted to first-classhood,
and their private lives were scarcely more enjoyable than the professional. They were, to be
sure, theoretically able to take exercise at certain hours, weather permitting; but weather
did not permit, and four of the dryads, when free, sought distraction in lying down rather
than walking. It was only the fifth who would not take the weather's "no" for an answer.

She had a mackintosh, and with her head looking very small and neat, wound in a brown veil
the colour of her hair, she joined the brigade of the strong men and women who defied the winds
by night. From eight to ten she staggered and slid up and down the wet length of the least-frequented
deck, or flopped and gasped joyously for a few minutes in an unclaimed chair.

Being "not a bit like the rest" of her sister dryads, she refrained from mentioning this habit
to Mr. Rolls, whose prowling place was on higher decks. Not that she was still what he would
have called "standoffish" with him. That would have been silly and Victorian after the grapefruit
and chocolates and novels, to say nothing of balm by the bottleful. The last dress she had
worn on the first day of their acquaintance, the "Yielding Heart," had to a certain extent
prophesied her attitude with the one man who knocked at the dryad door. Miss Child not only
thought Mr. Rolls "might be rather nice," but was almost sure he was. She was nice to him,
too, in dryad land, when he paid his visits to the sisterhood, but she did not "belong on his
deck."

By and by, however, he discovered her in the mackintosh and veil. It was one night when a young
playwright who had seized on him as prey wished to find a quiet place to be eloquent about
the plot.

"There's a deck two below," said the aspirant for fame, "where nobody prowls except a young
female panther tied up in a veil."

Five minutes later Peter Rolls took off his cap to the female panther. The playwright noticed
this, but was too much interested in himself and the hope of securing a capitalist to care.
In sketching out his comedy he was blind to any other possibilities of drama, and so did not
see Peter's eagerness to get rid of him. He was even pleased when, after a few compliments,
Rolls junior said: "Look here, you'd better leave me to think over what you've told me. I fix
things in my memory that way. And maybe when I've got it straight in my head I'll--er--mention
it to a man I know."

As the playwright was shivering, he obeyed with alacrity; and in the warmth of the smoking-room
revelled in the picture of his tame capitalist pacing a cold deck, lost to the sea's welter
in thoughts of that marvellous last act.

But it was a first act which was engaging Peter Rolls's attention, and he, though the only
male character in it (by choice), had to learn his part as he went on.

The play began by his joining the leading lady. (This has been done before, but seldom with
such a lurch and on such sloping boards.)

It would have been a mockery to say "good evening" on a night so vile, and Mr. Rolls began
by asking Miss Child if he might walk with her.

"Or tango," said she. "This deck is teaching me some wonderful new steps."

"I wish you'd teach them to me," said Peter.

"I can't, but the ship can."

"Did you ever dance the tango?" he wanted to know.

"Yes. In another state of existence."

This silenced him for an instant. Then he skipped at least two speeches ahead, whither his
thoughts had flown. "Say, Miss Child, I wish you'd tell me something about yourself."

"There isn't anything interesting to tell, thank you, Mr. Rolls."

"If that's your only reason, I think you might let me judge. Honestly, I don't want to intrude
or be curious. But you're so different from the others."

"I know I'm not pretty. That's why I have to be so painfully sweet. I got the engagement only
by a few extra inches. Luckily it isn't the face matters so much," she chattered on. "I thought
it was. But it's legs; their being long; Mme. Nadine engages on that and your figure being
right for the dresses of the year. So many pretty girls come in short or odd lengths, you find,
when they have to be measured by the yard, at bargain price."

Peter laughed.

"You're not meant to laugh there," she said. "It's a solemn fact."

"But you always laugh."

"That's because I'm what you'd call 'up against' life. It gives me such a funny point of view."

"That's part of what I want to talk about. Please don't keep trying to turn the subject. Unless
you think I have no business seizing the first chance when I find you alone, to---"

"It isn't that," said Win. "I think you're very kind to take the slightest interest. But really
there is nothing to tell. Just the usual sort of thing."

"It doesn't seem exactly usual to me for a girl about nineteen years old--"

"Twenty!"

"--to be leaving home alone and starting for a new country."

"Not alone. Mme. Nadine might be furious if she were spoken of as my chaperon; but she is,
all the same. Not that an emigrant needs a chaperon."

"You an emigrant!"

"Well, what else am I?"

"I've been thinking of you as a dryad."

"A poor, drenched dryad, thousands of miles from her native woods. Do you know, my veil is soaked?"

"I'll get you a sou'wester hat to-morrow."

"Does the barber keep them as well as Balm of Gilead?"

"No, but my sister does. She keeps one. And she doesn't want it. I shall annex it."

"Oh! I couldn't take it!"

"If you don't, I'll throw it overboard."

"Were the chocolates hers?"

"Yes."

"And the books?"

"Some were mine. But not the ones Miss Devereux says are pretty. Look here, Miss Child, another
thing she says is that you are not with Nadine as a permanence. What does that mean, if you
don't much mind my asking?"

"Not what you think. I'm not going to be discharged. I was engaged only for the voyage, to
take the place of a prettier girl with still longer legs who fell through at the last moment--literally.
She stepped into one of those gas-hole places in the street. And I stepped into her shoes--lucky
shoes!--sort of seven-league ones, bringing me across the sea, all the way to New York free,
for nothing. No! I hope not for nothing. I hope it is to make my fortune."

"I hope so, too," said Peter gravely. "Got any friends there besides me?"

"Thanks for putting it so, Mr. Balm of Gilead. Why, I've heard that everybody in America is
ready to be a friend to lonely strangers!"

"I guess your informant was almost too much of an optimist. Couldn't you be serious for just
a minute? You know, I feel quite well acquainted with you--and the others, of course. But they
are different. And they are 'permanences' with Nadine. That's the kind of thing they're fit
for. I don't worry about them, and I shan't worry about you, either, if you tell me you have
friends or know what you are going to do when you land."

"I can't tell you that," Win answered in a changed tone, as if suddenly she were weary of trying
to "frivol." "But I have hopes; and I have two letters of introduction and a respectable, recommended
boarding-house and a little money left, so I really believe I shall be all right, thank you.
My people thought my wanting to come showed 'my wild spirit,' so I'm anxious to prove as soon
as I can--not to them any more, but to myself--that I can live my own life in a new world without
coming to grief."

"Why not prove to them any more?"

"Oh--because no one is going to care much. As I said, my native woods are far behind, and most
of the trees are cut down. Not a dryad of the true dryad family left, and this one is practically
forgotten already. Her niche was all grown over with new bark long ago, so it was more than
time she ceased to haunt the place."

"I'm afraid you've had a great sorrow," said Peter.

"It was hardly big enough for that word--this thing that's sent me seeking my fortune--though
it began with a sorrow long ago."

"Some one you loved died?" Peter had a simple, direct way of asking questions that led you on.

"My mother. When I was fourteen--not old enough to be of much use to my father and the baby
brother. So my father had to get some one to be a kind of housekeeper and superior nurse. He's
a clergyman. I don't look like a clergyman's daughter, perhaps--and he thought I didn't behave
like one, especially after the housekeeper came. She's the kind who calls herself 'a lady housekeeper.'
I don't know if you have them in America. She and I had rows--and that upset father. He didn't
want to get rid of her because she managed things splendidly--him and the baby and the vicarage--and
influential old ladies said she 'filled a difficult position satisfactorily.' So it was simpler
to get rid of me. I went to boarding-school."

"Did you like that?"

"I loved it. After the first year I didn't go home even for the holidays. Often I visited--girls
were nice to me. But I didn't make the most of my time--I'm furious with myself for that now.
I learned nothing--nothing, really, except the things I wanted to learn. And those are always
the ones that are least useful."

"I found that, too," said Peter, "at Yale."

"It didn't matter for you. You have the Balm of Gilead."

"That's my father's."

"What's his is yours, I suppose."

"He says so. But--we all have our own trouble. Mine's not living up to my principles, or even
knowing exactly what they are--being all in a turmoil. But it's yours I want to talk about."

"I've forbidden myself the word 'trouble.' It builds a wall. And I've just broken through my
wall. I could have done it sooner and better if I'd learned more difficult things, that's all.
When I wanted to do something for myself--why, I couldn't do a thing that was any good in a
busy world. I'd had no training except for my voice."

"There! I thought you sounded as if you had a voice!"

"I thought so, too. But that was another of my mistakes."

"I bet it wasn't."

"You'd lose your money, Mr. Rolls. I spent most of mine before I found out. You see, my mother
left a little. It wasn't to come to me till I was twenty-one, but all sorts of things happened.
My father kept me at school till a year and a half ago because he didn't know what to do with
me. Then my little brother died. I ought to have cared more, but I hardly knew him. His coming
killed my mother; and he loved that woman. I don't see how he could!

"When he was gone, people might have gossiped about her and father perhaps. I believe she suggested
it to him and said she must go away, to make him think of marrying her; but all he did was
to send for me. I stood it for six months. It was horrid for all three. I dare say I was to
blame. I had a scene with father, and told him I'd made up my mind to go to London for singing
lessons so I could support myself: I couldn't live at home. That forced the situation! Before
any one--except the 'lady housekeeper'--knew quite what was happening, father had asked her
to be his wife--or she'd asked him. I went before the wedding. I'd worshipped my mother! And--but
that's all the story."

"I call it only the preface. What about London?"

"Oh, father gave me my money ahead of time, for the lessons. He didn't approve, on principle,
but he would have had no peace with me at home, and he likes peace better than anything. I
had to promise I wouldn't go into musical comedy. That makes me laugh now! But I thought then
I'd only to ask and to have. I took lessons of a man who'd been a celebrated tenor. He must
have known that my voice was nothing, really, but he buoyed me up. I suppose they're all like
that. It's business.

"When the money was two thirds spent I dared not go on, and I asked him to find me something
to do. He'd often said he would when the right time came. Apparently it hadn't come. He made
the excuse that I ought to have stayed with him longer. It would hurt his reputation to launch
a pupil too soon. So I had to try to launch myself. And it didn't work. One manager of opera
companies on whom I forced myself tested my voice and said it wasn't strong enough--only a
twilight voice for a drawing-room, he called it. I was broken up--just at first."

"Poor child!" Peter muttered, but the girl's quick ears caught the words over the roar of that
"ill wind" which had brought them together.

"Child is my surname, and it's not polite to call me by it." She brought him to his bearings
by suddenly "frivolling" again. "They call militant suffragettes and housemaids sent to prison
for stealing their kind mistresses' jewels by their surnames. I'm not a militant; and I've
not been a housemaid yet, though I may be, if New York isn't kinder to me than London."

"I hope it will be--kind in just the right way!"

"My friend who gave me the two letters of introduction says it will: that Americans love English
girls, if they have the courage to come over. She says there are heaps more chances as well
as heaps more room for us in that country than there are at home."

"That's true, but---"

"Please don't discourage me!"

"Not on your life! Only---"

"'Only' is as bad a word as 'but.' I've got a letter of introduction to the editor of a New
York paper, To-day and To-morrow, and one to the organist of a Higher Thought church. Maud
Ellis says they're both splendid men and interested in women's progress. Something good ought
to come from one or the other. Getting this chance of my passage free seems a happy omen, as
if I were meant to take this great adventure. I'm not one bit afraid. I feel boiling with courage--except
when the ship pitches and rolls at the same time."

"That's right. You're bound to make good, of course. I wouldn't discourage you for the world.
All I meant to say was that I'd like you to think of me as a friend. I don't want to lose sight
of you when we land. I might be able to help in some way or other or--my family might. Before
we get off the ship I'll introduce you and my sister to each other."

"Oh, thank you! You're very kind," the banished dryad said for the third or fourth time. "But
I should be sorry to trouble Miss Rolls. She wouldn't---"

"Yes, she would," insisted Peter. "She'll be awfully interested when I tell her about you,
Miss Child, and very pleased to know you."

Win was silenced, though not convinced. It is not safe for a brother to judge his sister by
himself.

CHAPTER IV

THE KINDNESS OF MISS ROLLS

Peter found it not so easy as he had expected to snatch an opportunity of interesting Ena in
Miss Child. His sister was even more than ordinarily interested in her own affairs, which had
reached a critical stage, and if Peter, having run her to earth in her cabin, attempted to
talk of any one save Ena Rolls or Lord Raygan her eyes became like shut windows. He could almost
see her soul turning its back and walking away behind the panes of opaque gray glass.

There had been another evening prowl with the young female panther before the evasive chance
was grasped, and the storm-tossed, overdue Monarchic hoped to dock within eighteen hours.

Things were growing desperate for Peter. He was not, of course, in love with the "queer, arresting
face," but he could not bear to think of its arriving alone and unprotected in New York. Something
must be done, and he resorted to bribery.

"Look here, Sis," he began, "I've just thought there may be reasons why Raygan can't make up
his mind to visit a bit on our side, now he and his family are here."

"He hasn't said he won't do it," Ena cut in.

"No, but he hasn't said he will, has he?"

"Not yet. I daren't seem too eager."

"To save my life, I don't see why you should be eager. But as you are, I've been giving my
mind to the subject." (This was subtle of Peter.) "I've come to the conclusion that the man
would like to stay. I'm sure his sister would. Perhaps you can answer for the mother. The trouble
may be money."

"Perhaps. I've thought of that. But what can we do? We can't go to him out of a clear sky and
offer to lend."

"I might propose to put him on to a good thing."

"Oh, Peter, would you help me like that, in a man's way?"

"I would, if you'd do me a favour, in a woman's way."

"What is it? But whatever it is, I'm sure to!"

They were in Miss Rolls's cabin, the one she had generously taken over from Lady Raygan and
Eileen. Ena was sitting on the seat under the window; Peter was looking uncomfortable on a
camp-chair. It was a small cabin, boiling over with dresses, though the "Young Moon" had not
yet been added to their number. Peter had never found his sister in a propitious mood for the
gift, and had been keeping the "Moon," figuratively, up his sleeve till the right moment came.
Now, perhaps it had come.

Ena had been lying down after luncheon. She had given herself this little rest because she
knew that Raygan was going to play poker in the smoking-room. She had learned bridge--though
cards bored her--just as she had learned tennis and golf and all sorts of eccentric dances,
in order to be popular, to be in the swim, to do just what the fashionable people were doing--the
people at the top, where she wanted to arrive.

But she could not play poker! And if she could, it would have been impossible to go with Lord
Raygan into the smoking-room. Luckily no other girl would be there, so Ena resigned herself
to the loss of valuable time on her last day.

"Why, yes," Peter answered. "I believe you are sure to! It won't be a hard favour to do, Sis.
It's only to let me introduce a girl, a very nice girl, and then to be kind and help her if
she needs it."

Ena laughed. "Is that all? I guess--I mean, I fancy--I can promise that. Girls don't need much
help nowadays Who is she? Have I seen her?"

"No. You haven't seen her."

"Is she pretty?" Peter had expected that question. Ena, and all the other girls he knew, invariably
asked it. But he did not quite know what to answer.

"She's awfully attractive," he said. "The sort you'd turn and look after in a crowd. She hasn't
got what you call features, but--you can't take your eyes off her somehow. She looks--she looks--well,
a tiny bit like a--a--perfectly gloriously fascinating--golliwog."

"A golliwog!"

"Great big, wide-apart eyes, I mean; dark, floating ones, with immense eyelashes that curl
up and stick out when you see her profile. She's got a short, round face--no, kind of heart-shaped,
I guess, and a little, delicate, turned-up nose, like the Duchess of Marlborough's; and a lovely
mouth--yes, her mouth is lovely, no mistake! She's nearly always laughing, even when she isn't
happy. She's got a long neck, like a flower stem, and long legs---"

"Good gracious, what a description! For heaven's sake, who is the girl?"

"Oh, I know it must sound queer; but she's the most fascinating thing you ever saw, and any
man would say so. She's a Miss Child---"

"There's no Miss Child on the passenger list."

"Maybe not; because she's one of Nadine's models, and I bought you a gorgeous dress off her.
I've been--saving it for a surprise. It's called the 'New'--no, the 'Young Moon.'"

Ena forgot for a moment that she badly needed help from her brother and began sharply to catechize
him. "When did you buy me a dress? The day Lord Raygan offered to go back to that room and
choose me one and I said no, I didn't want a dress?"

"Yes. That was the day. I couldn't let her try it on in vain."

"Oh, you bought it to please her--the girl like a golliwog?"

"She isn't like a golliwog, really. That's not fair. And I bought the dress to please you,
of course. It's mighty pretty. I've got it in my room."

"I wonder what your steward thinks? Well, I'll thank you when I see it. But what an idea, to
introduce one of those girls to me! Lord Raygan said they were all bleached and painted, except
the one who wasn't pretty."

"That's my one. But I think she is pretty, and better than pretty. Her eyes--and her smile---"

"Never mind her eyes and her smile. I can't be introduced to a model, Petro. I won't know a
dressmaker."

"Mother was one. And father's mother was a washer---"

"Be still, for the love of heaven! If any one should hear!"

"I'm not ashamed of---"

"Well, I am! Oh, Petro, don't be horrid, just when I really need you to be nice. And you can
be nice--very nice. Don't let's even think about the family past. It's awful! It's a blot!
But it can't be helped. We must try to live it down. And we can, with our money. We can and
we must. A great chance has come to us. All the more because of--of what you reminded me--we
must be careful of the sort of people we mix ourselves up with--"

"This girl is a lady."

Then Ena lost her temper. "They all are," she snapped. "I suppose she's a clergyman's daughter
and her parents are dead."

"Her mother is," Peter admitted.

"She would be! What does the girl want help for? Doesn't Nadine pay her wages?"

"She only engaged with Nadine to work out her passage."

"Oh! They say girls from all over the world are bearing down on poor little old New York since
Owen Johnson wrote 'The Salamander.'"

"Jove, Ena, I never knew before you had anything of the cat in you!"

This, and a flash in the eyes which were bluer than hers, brought Miss Rolls to her bearings.
She remembered the reason for going softly with Peter. Luckily she had done no great mischief yet.

"Can't you take a joke, Petro?" she teased him, laughing "I'm not a cat, or a pig, either.
But you do scare me a little. You don't like this girl, do you?"

"Of course I like her."

"You know what I mean by 'like.' And I hope I know what you mean. You always yearn over every
creature who hasn't as much money as we have and needs ours. Sure it's no more than that this
time? It would be--just the limit, the outside edge and down the other side, if you fell in
love with a dressmaker's model. It would be like--like reverting to type. We must climb, not--root."

Peter laughed--nervously, his sister feared. "What a girl you are! You needn't fash yourself
about my feelings for Miss Child. All I want is to help her to get on."

"Oh! To help her get on? Well, then, you may introduce her to me, if it can be done without
taking up too much time. You know, Petro, it's my last day on board, and I have my feelings
as much as you. How can we manage it? Can you bring her here?"

"I can't 'bring' her anywhere," Peter retorted rather gruffly. "She isn't a servant looking
for a place. I've told you she's a lady."

"Oh, all right. What do you suggest?"

"She hasn't much time to herself. Since the weather improved, business is brisker. But after
her dinner she gets in a walk down on B deck, where nobody else goes. I could take you there
about half-past eight."

"Very well. That's the program." Ena spoke with regained cheerfulness, because no one need
witness an introduction effected on B deck, and because a sentence of Peter's had been like
a bull's-eye lantern directing a ray along the right track. "I'll be ever so nice to Miss Child
to-night--and afterward, too, in New York, if you can bring anything off with Lord Raygan about
the visit. Are you playing poker with him this afternoon?"

"Yes. Some chaps wanted---"

"I know. He told me. But he didn't mention you. Afterward, will you work right up to the 'good
thing' you can put him on to? He'll be in just the mood--if he loses. And he says he always
does lose."

"Yes. I'll let him see that he might do well for himself by staying. Gee! Think of a fellow
needing a bribe to spend a couple of weeks in God's country!"

"He doesn't know yet that it is God's country. We must show him. Oh, Peter, won't the Van Raaltens
and the Arlingtons fall over themselves with rage if the Earl of Raygan and his mother and
sister stop with us for a fortnight!"

"Stop with us for a fortnight!" mimicked Peter, scornful yet affectionate now. "You get more
British every day in your accent and conversation, my kid."

"Well, I try hard enough! I do like their way of speaking. They make our voices sound grating
and our expressions crude."

"Our ways for mine!"

"You can have them. Now run away, Petro. I'll see the 'Young Moon' later. I need a nap. Lay
awake last night worrying!"

But when he had gone she lay awake planning. This golliwog was undoubtedly dangerous. The absorbed
look in Peter's eyes when he described her singular attractions contradicted the statement
that his feelings were Platonic.

He "only wanted to help!" Pooh! Still Ena was glad he had said that, because it had given her
a brilliant idea. It was also rather a cruel idea, but all is fair in love and war: and this
might be both.

Of course, if the girl were coming to New York to be a Salamander, the weapon would be useless.
Ena must find another. She could not be sure until she had met Miss Child; but she told herself
that no glorified golliwog, however sly, could fool her for five minutes! She would soon know
whether Peter were right or wrong about this daughter of a clergyman whose mother was dead.

Poor Petro, he was such a fool about people--such a dear, nice, but sometimes inconvenient
fool! Just mother's disposition over again, with a touch of father's cleverness splashed in
here and there where you'd least expect it--but never in the place where it would be most useful.

As Ena reflected thus, she was vaguely pleased with herself after the fashion of an earnest
student who suddenly finds himself actually thinking in French. Before she Went to Mme. Yarde's
Finishing School for Young Ladies, she had been so accustomed to saying pa and ma that it had
been very difficult to overcome the habit. Even now, once in a while, she--but, thank heaven,
not once since meeting Lord Raygan; she was sure of that. He had said, "You talk quite like
our girls." And all the rest of the day she had been happy; for sometimes, in a good-natured
sort of way, he made fun of what he absurdly called "the American accent."

Ena shut her eyes and composed herself to lie down without ruffling her hair. But she could
not sleep. She made pictures of Lord Raygan and his mother and Lady Eileen visiting at their
house on Long Island.

Would they think it more "swell" of the Rollses to be living in the country than in New York?
She hoped so, and almost believed they would, for she understood from novels and what she had
learned in London, that the "smart people" only "ran into town for the theatre and that sort
of thing" in winter. Now it was October--almost winter. And in the automobile it was only an
hour and twenty-five minutes from Sea Gull Manor (Ena had named the new place herself) to New York.

Besides, in the country the visitors wouldn't so easily find out that the family hadn't got
"into" things--the things that mattered. Of course they could see what the family was. They
could see that anywhere, alas! But poor father and mother were better against a country background.
And foreigners might attribute some quaint tricks of manner and speech to their being Americans,
just as she and Peter hadn't known how awful the cockney accent was until they had been told
by English people.

Oh, it was lovely over there! Nobody snubbed her. She would give anything to live on that side
all her life, married to a man of title, and go home occasionally, to pay back the proud cats
who had scratched. Meanwhile, it would be a step on the golden ladder to flaunt Lord Raygan
and his mother and Eileen as guests. Then, if Rags could swallow the family and propose (as
sometimes she thought he contemplated doing), how wonderful it would be! Her ideal accomplished!

No golliwog on earth should be allowed to defeat this end. For the addition of a model, dressmaking
golliwog to the family would be the final obstacle. Lord Raygan was now undecided. He was perhaps
waiting to see how the rest of the Rollses shaped up. If he could stand them as relations,
all would be well. All must be well!

That night Win wore for her walk a long blue coat in place of the mackintosh. It was shabby,
but becoming; and her dark hair was tucked into a close-fitting cap of the same blue as the
cloak. She knew what was due to happen at half-past eight, and though grateful to Mr. Balm
of Gilead, dreaded the result of his kindness.

Miss Rolls would be the first American girl she had ever met; but she knew how an English girl
would feel about being introduced to a vague waif picked up by a brother in a dressmaker's
showroom on shipboard. It would have been ungracious to refuse the offered introduction so
well meant, but the fifth dryad was not looking forward to it with pleasurable sensations.

When she saw the brother and sister coming toward her, however, the smile on Miss Rolls's face
was encouraging. It was dimly like Peter's smile, and there was a certain family resemblance
about the faces: both dark, with eager eyes that seemed light in contrast with dead-black hair,
but the eagerness of Miss Rolls's look was different from the eagerness of her brother's. His
was slightly wistful in its search for something he did not yet know. Hers was dissatisfied,
searching for something she wanted and had not got.

He was a lean young man, not very tall, but with rather the air of an ex-college athlete. She
was a plump, short girl, somewhat square in build, but distinctly handsome, showing beautiful
teeth in her cordial smile. If the smile had been less cordial Miss Child might have conceived
the catty idea that the magnificent ruby-velvet hooded evening cloak had been put on to impress
the humble new acquaintance. However, it would have been mean to suspect a sister of Mr. Balm
of Gilead of such a snobbish trick. And there was the smile.

"Miss Child, I'm very pleased to meet you," said the handsome girl warmly, just as her brother
had hopefully prophesied. "Peter's told me quite a lot about you. I think you're awfully brave."

"Perhaps one doesn't deserve much credit for courage in doing a thing one wants to do," answered
Winifred, her slim, ringless hand responding to the kind pressure of the plump one wearing
too many rings. (They were all rubies to-night. Miss Rolls had read about a wonderful Russian
woman before whom men went down like ninepins and who always matched her dresses with her jewels.)

Yes, Ena thought, Peter was right; the creature was a lady. She had a soft, throaty voice,
like a blackbird when it talks to itself, and oh, a creamy accent! Miss Rolls would have given
anything to extract it, like pith, from the long white stem in which it seemed to live. She
would have been willing to pay well for it, and for Miss Child's length of limb, so necessary
to show off the latest fashions. She saw and appreciated the odd, golliwog charm of wide-apart
eyes under high arch of brow. And the full, laughing mouth, with the short upper lip, was beautiful,
like the mouths of marvellous girls on magazine covers. The creature looked brave and rather
sweet, and Miss Rolls was quite sorry for her; but the thing had to be done.

"Petro, you go away and let us have a talk," said Petro's kind sister gayly. "Two is company;
three's none."

And Petro went, thinking Ena the grandest sort of a pal. He had done his best for her already.
Raygan and the two ladies had graciously agreed to stay for a fortnight at least in the country
upon which Providence had thrust them. Peter had Marconied home, and home would certainly Marconi
back an invitation to Sea Gull Manor. As he had said to Ena, he had pressed the button; she
must do the rest. But he felt now as if he would enjoy doing a great deal more for her than
he had yet done.

"And just what do you want to do in New York, Miss Child?" inquired Miss Rolls, as they began
slowly to pace the otherwise deserted deck.

"I have wild hopes of getting newspaper work of some sort through one letter of introduction
I have," answered Win, "or into a choir as contralto from the other. If not--oh, well, every
one says America's the country for women."

"Yes, it is. We have splendid fun," Ena assured her. "The men are so kind to us."

"I think they must be," Win agreed. "Mr. Rolls has been very kind. Are all the rest like him?"

"I--suppose they have different ways of being kind--some of them. Some may be safer than others.
I hardly know how to put it!"

"I think I understand."

"I--wonder if you do. Oh, Miss Child, I wish I dared speak to you frankly!"

When people begin thus there is invariably something disagreeable to follow; but Winifred Child
braced herself and said calmly: "Please do."

"It's very difficult. I'm quite afraid of you."

"It's I who ought to be afraid of you."

"Don't be! I wish I could make you trust me. Can I?"

"Why not?"

"I'm throwing things at you so suddenly. But what else can I do? We haven't much time. My brother'll
come back and join us. And--it's about him I want to speak. He's so--interested in you."

"That's very nice of him." Winifred's voice was as cold and bright as a very small icicle.

"It ought to be! But--well, he's a dear brother and a splendid fellow in many ways. I hate
to say anything against him. Yet I'd hate still more to have you--disappointed. His one fault
is--he's rather foolish about women, especially those not exactly in his own set. Do you see
what I mean? It's so hard for me! He said to-day he was going to try to help you. That frightened
me a little. I felt I must give you this tiny warning, for Peter has such a trustworthy air,
hasn't he?"

"Yes, indeed he has," answered Win, loyal still to Mr. Balm of Gilead, alias Peter Pan. But
the night had grown colder.

"I'm his sister. I can't help feeling responsible for him. And, in a way, I feel responsible
for you, too, as it's through him I've met you--and you'll be a stranger in our country. That's
why I shouldn't have dared let this chance pass without speaking. Yet I keep rambling on without
the courage to say much."

"It isn't necessary to dot all the i's and cross the t's," returned Winifred, trying not to
let her voice be sharp or her tone bitter, for she had to believe that this girl was sincere.
A sister would not blacken the character of a brother for the mere pleasure of hearing herself
talk!

"You do take this as I mean it, don't you?"

"I think so."

"Thank you so much. It's very sweet and generous of you not to be angry with me and think me
a busybody meddling in other people's business. But it is my business to see that my brother
doesn't hurt a girl who trusts him--a stranger in a strange land. All I want you to promise
is that instead of letting him help you, when he offers to, as he's sure to do--if he hasn't
already--you'll let me do it."

"I'm hoping not to need help, except from the friends of my friend who has given me introductions,"
Win justified her pride of womanhood.

"I don't suppose you will need anything else. You look as if you could get along anywhere.
But if you do need a push, promise you won't accept favours from my brother, or let him come
into your life at all. It's entirely for your own sake I ask."

"I understand that, Miss Rolls. What other reason could there be?"

"There couldn't be any other. Do promise. I'm so frightened for you."

"I shall certainly accept no help from Mr. Rolls."

"That's good! It relieves my mind. And swear you won't let him dream that I've said anything
or interfered with his plans."

"His plans!"

"Well--when a man with Peter's one fault offers to help a girl get on in New York--Please don't
be offended"

"I am not. Of course it goes without saying that I won't let him know I've had a warning from you."

"He'd never speak to me again if you even gave him a hint."

"Don't be afraid. I won't; not the faintest. Why, we're landing to-morrow morning early! There
won't be a chance to say more than 'Good-bye.'"

"There's to-night, after I go in. He'll be back---"

"I'm going in, too. I shall go when you go."

"Perhaps it would be better. Oh, you don't know what a weight is off my mind!"

"I'm glad it is gone."

"And you'll write to me, won't you, and let me know how you get along? Write just what you
need. I'll be delighted---"

"If I need anything--thank you."

"My address is Sea Gull Manor, Old Chesterton, Long Island. Shall I write it down?"

"No, please don't trouble. I can always remember addresses. You're really very good--to take
an interest. And--and I know it must have been hard for you to--to feel you had to speak."

It was also hard, desperately hard, for Win to pay this tribute to Miss Rolls's unselfish interest
in her moral welfare. She tried to be grateful, to feel that her late friend's sister had been
brave and fine and unconventional thus to defend a strange girl against one so near. But despite
reason's wise counsel, her heart was hot within her. She felt like a heathen assured by an
earnest missionary that her god was a myth.

She disliked kind Miss Rolls intensely, and would have loved to let loose upon her somewhat
obtuse head the sarcasm of which at that moment she felt herself a past mistress. She wanted
to be rich and important and have Miss Rolls, poor and suppliant, at her mercy. Horrified,
she saw by the searchlight of her own anger dark depths of cruelty and revenge in her own nature.
She longed to rush to Peter and tell him everything, and believe in him again, for it was hard
to lose a friend--an ideal ewe-lamb of a friend. She wished she might wake up in her overcrowded
stateroom and find that this hateful conversation had been a dream.

But she could not do any of these brutal, silly, or impossible things. She was not dreaming.
All was true. Miss Rolls had meant well, and Mr. Balm of Gilead did not exist. He was only
Peter Rolls, a rich, selfish fellow who thought girls who had to work fair game. His sister
must know his true inwardness. Probably she had learned through unpleasant hushed-up experiences,
through seeing skeletons unfleshed by Peter stalk into the family cupboard.

"You ungrateful beast, behave yourself!" Miss Child boxed the ears of her sulky ego and shook it.

The throaty quiver in the blackbird voice of the dangerous golliwog went vibrating through
Miss Rolls's conscience in a really painful way. She felt as if she had had a shock of electricity.
But, thank goodness, the worst was over, and now that she had grasped safety (for instinct
said that the girl would not betray), she could afford to be generous.

She reminded herself that she had acted entirely in self-defence, not through malice, and she
had not told a single lie about Peter. She had but said--in words--that some men were safer
than others, which every one knew to be true; that Peter was rather foolish about women (so
he was--ridiculously soft, not modern in his ideas at all!), and that it would be better for
the girl to accept help from her--Ena--than from a young man. It was very good advice, and
nothing Peter ought to be angry about, even if he should ever hear--which, pray heaven, he
might not! As Ena reminded herself how wise and tactful she had been, a faint glow stole into
the chilly zone round her heart, just as you can heat a cold foot by concentrating yourself
on telling it that it is warm.

"I want to be your friend," she went on sweetly. "Perhaps you aren't very rich? As girl to
girl, let me offer you a little, little present--or a loan--a hundred dollars. I've got it
with me---"

"Oh, thank you many times, but I couldn't possibly!" cried Win. "I don't need it. I have lots
of money."

"I'm glad--though I should have liked the pleasure," said Ena. And she genuinely would, because
the act of giving would have pumped warmth into the cold place without waiting for time to
change the temperature.

"There's one thing you must let me do, anyhow," she persisted. "That dress--the 'Blue Moon,'
isn't it?--that you tried on and my brother bought for me, I want you to accept it. Oh, don't
say no! It's miles too long for me" (she couldn't have brought herself to confess that it was
hopelessly small for waist and hips), "and I never enjoy altered dresses--the style's lost.
So you'll not be robbing me. If you won't have it, I shall believe it's a sign that you're
offended at my interference."

Winifred thought for an instant and drew a long breath. "Then I must take the dress," she said.
"It's more than good of you, of course. I shan't be in the kind of world where I can wear it,
but---"

"Keep it to remember this evening--I mean, to remember me," Miss Rolls hastily amended.

"I will," said Win simply. But there was no danger that she would ever forget Miss Rolls--or
her kindness.

CHAPTER V

SCENES FOR A "MOVIE"

When Peter thought that he might decently return to B deck without breaking into charming womanly
confidences, it was deserted. The moon was struggling out through black clouds and pouring
silver into the sea's ink, but the girl in the moon was gone.

When he found Ena again--which was easy because of the ruby cloak--she was sitting between
Raygan and Lady Eileen on the boat deck. He knew that she would be annoyed if he mentioned
Miss Child in this distinguished company, and, in any case, he would not have cared to speak
of the girl there.

Realizing that he had kept away too long and lost his chance of seeing Miss Child again that
night, he consoled himself by knocking at Ena's door when she had evaded him and sought sanctuary
in her cabin. She let him in at once, not because she wanted to do so, but because he would
"turn suspicious" if she made an excuse to keep him out.

"Well?" said he. "What did you think of her?"

"Miss Child? She seems a very nice girl, and you're perfectly right--she is a lady. I don't
know if she's quite as young as you think, and I don't call her pretty; but she is attractive
in spite of being so awfully tall. We had a pleasant talk, and I offered to do anything I could.
I gave her our address, and she is to write."

"Did you tell her you'd invite her down?" Peter put this question diffidently.

"I--intimated it. She was rather independent but very nice, and said she was grateful, especially
after I insisted on giving her that 'Moon' dress, which now I've sent to her cabin. You know,
she has friends in New York, and seems to know just what she wants to do, so I couldn't thrust
myself upon her. But I think I did the right thing."

"I'm sure of that, you dear girl," said Peter.

And so was the dear girl herself.

Next morning the room of the mirrors was destitute of dryads. Its once crowded wardrobes were
empty; the huge screen was folded and leaning against the wall. The dryad door stood open (as
Peter Rolls observed when he "happened" to pass, about the time the Monarchic neared the Statue
of Liberty) and nothing reminiscent remained save a haunting perfume of "Rose-Nadine" sachet
powder, a specialty which might have been the lingering wraith of a dryad.

As the visions had vanished with all their belongings, Peter thought it probable they would
be on some deck or other watching for the New York skyscrapers. And he was right concerning
four of his model acquaintances. The fifth was not visible, and Miss Devereux explained her
absence by saying that she was "lazy."

"She's on her own now, you know," she added, "and can sleep as late as she likes. But I wouldn't
miss the first sight of New York for a pound! Some people have no romance in them."

Up till the last minute Peter had hopes of B deck; but they were blighted and disappointed,
even depressed; he had to land with Ena and her friends without having seen Miss Child. Still,
there was the pier, crowded with people who had come to wave welcome to the Monarchic. There
appeared to be a fearful confusion, and this was Peter's first return from his first trip abroad;
but he knew that the excited throng would soon be sorted out under letters of the alphabet.

Peter senior had come to meet his returning children and the distinguished guests Marconi had
bestowed on him (a little, dry, thin man, who looked as though a lost resemblance to Peter
might come out if he were freshened up by being soaked for a long time in warm water), and
he had already secured a tame official to glance graciously into the luggage. After shaking
heartily the small bag of bones that was his father's hand, and saying "Hello, Dad! How's yourself?
How's mother? How's everything?" Peter was free for a few minutes to sprint from "B" to "C."

His spirit rose at the comparative dearth of "C's." Not more than a dozen of the crowded Monarchic's
passengers were dancing with impatience beneath the third letter of the alphabet, and Mr. Rolls,
Jr., walked straight up to tall Miss Child without being beaten back by a surf of "C's." To
be sure, Miss Carroll was under the same letter, and observed the approach of Peter with interest,
if not surprise; but she was seated on a trunk at some distance key in hand.

"Well, I'm mighty glad to find you!" exclaimed Peter cordially. "I began to think it must be
a trick of dryads to wait themselves ashore without waiting for the clumsy old ship to dock."

"I was busy packing this morning," replied the alleged dryad, with a hard, undryadic expression
on her "heart-shaped" face.

"You disappeared so early last night, I'd an idea you were doing your packing then so as to
be up with the dawn and get a good look at the harbour."

"I could see a great deal from our porthole."

"I shouldn't have thought you were the kind of girl to be satisfied with portholes," said Peter,
hoping to wake up one of her smiles. Her voice sounded rather tired.

"Beggars mustn't be choosers," was the dry reply.

"But dryads may be," he encouraged her.

"I've left my dryadhood hanging up behind the door." She spoke sharply, almost irritably, it
seemed. "I shan't need it in New York."

"Oh, won't you? That's where you're mistaken! There'll be lots of times when you'd rather have
it than the grandest opera cloak."

"I shan't need an opera cloak, either."

Peter was still smiling, though less confident of the old friendly understanding which had
given them a language of their own with words which would have been nonsense for others.

"We'll see. Anyhow, I shall ask you to go to the very first worth-while opera that comes along.
Consider it a formal invitation."

"Very well, I will, and answer it formally. 'Miss Child thanks Mr. Rolls for his kind invitation,
and regrets that a previous engagement makes it impossible for her to accept.'"

"By Jove, that does sound formal enough! How do you know you'll have a previous engagement?"

"I'm perfectly certain I shall."

This was the real thing! There was no joke in the bottom of the medicine glass.

Peter's face grew red, like a scolded schoolboy's. Winifred (who was looking at Miss Carroll's
trunk, but saw only Mr. Rolls) thought that he was going to speak out angrily, and perhaps
give her a glimpse of his black heart. She hoped he would, for it would have been a relief;
but he did not.

"Have I done anything to offend you?" he asked with a straight look; and though he spoke in
a low tone, it was not a secret tone at all.

"No, certainly not," she answered, opening her eyes at him. "Why do you ask?"

"Because--you weren't like this on the ship."

"I've left my ship manners hanging up behind the door with my dryadhood. I shan't use them
in New York, either!"

"Well--I'm sorry!"

"I don't know why you should be." If she had not stared hard at Miss Carroll's trunk, and tried
anxiously to make out the name on a very small label, she would have done what she had boasted
of never doing, whatever the world did to her: she would have cried. As it was, she wore the
expression of a budding basilisk.

"Don't you know? Well, then, you didn't realize what it meant to me to have you for a friend."

"I really didn't think much about it, Mr. Rolls!"

"Evidently not. But I did. Look here, Miss Child. Did my sister put you against me--or our
friendship--in any way?"

"What an extraordinary idea!" sneered Winifred. "She spoke very nicely of you, as far as I
can remember, and said you were a dear brother."

"Then why are you so unkind to me now after being nice on the ship?"

"Oh, that! It was for a cinema, a motion picture. Didn't you understand?"

This slapped Peter in the face: that she should retort with flippant slang, when he was earnestly
begging for an explanation. At last she had succeeded in freezing him.

"I'm afraid I didn't quite understand," he said in a new tone which she had not heard before.
Mr. Balm of Gilead, alias Peter Pan, had suddenly grown up, and as Peter Rolls, Jr., was all
politeness and conventionality.

"I do understand now, though. Well, Miss Child, I must--thank that 'cinema' for some very pleasant
hours. Here comes a man to look at your baggage. Just remind him that you're a British subject,
and he won't make you any trouble. Neither will I!" Peter's hat was off, but his smile could
have been knocked off only with a hammer.

"Good-bye," replied Win hastily, frightened at her own appalling success as a basilisk. "And
thank you--for your part of the cinema."

"I'm afraid I don't deserve any credit. Good-bye. And good luck."

He was gone--but no, not quite. Without turning round to look at her again, he was stopping
to speak with the Irish-faced servant of the customs. The latter nodded and even touched his
cap. Peter Rolls certainly had a way with him. But Win already knew this, to her sorrow. She
was glad she had thought of that horrid speech about the cinema. The man deserved it.

"That's the last I shall see of him!" she said to herself almost viciously, as the Irish-American
official spied upon her toque the wing of a fowl domesticated since the ark. Yet for the second
time Peter came back, stiffly lifting his hat.

"I only wanted to say," he explained, "that, cinema or no cinema, I hope, if I can be of service
now or later, you will allow me the privilege. My address---"

"I have your sister's, thank you," she cut his words short as with a pair of scissors. "That's
the same thing, isn't it?"

"Yes," he answered heavily--perhaps guiltily. And this time he was gone for good.

"What a neat expression," thought Winifred. "Gone for good!"

It sounded like a long time.

CHAPTER VI

THE HANDS WITH THE RINGS

Peter Rolls, Jr., unlike his father, had practically no talent for revenge. In common with
every warm-blooded creature lower than the angels, he could be fiercely vindictive for a minute
or two--long enough, when a small boy, to give a bloody nose and to get one; long enough, at
all ages, to want to hit a man, thoroughly smash him, perhaps, or even to kick him into the
middle of next week; long enough to feel that he would like to make a woman sorry that she
had been rude.

But there was always a spiritual and mental reckoning of a painful description: a soul's housecleaning
which turned him out of doors a miserable waif; and it invariably came too soon, before he
had had time to gloat over the blood on another boy's nose, or a man's humiliation, or a woman's
repentant blush. Instead of heartily disliking people for the spiteful things they sometimes
did, he was apt to turn round and wonder if the fault had not been his; if he were not the
abysmal beast.

He had not half repaid Winifred Child for her rudeness with his coldness, yet no sooner was
he in the huge gray automobile--which could comfortably have seated eight instead of six--than
he felt a pang of remorse, exactly like a gimlet twisting through his heart from top to bottom.

"I oughtn't to have left her like that!" he reproached himself. "I ought to have hung around
and seen that everything went all right. She said she had the address of a good, cheap boarding-house.
But it may have changed. Or it may be full. And, anyway, how will she get there? She ought
to take a cab. But will she? And if she does, won't she fall dead at the price? I ought to
have warned the poor child. There are shoals of tips I might have put her up to if I hadn't
always been talking about myself. What if she was cross? There must have been a reason. I must
have done something she didn't feel like pointing out when I asked. What I don't know about
women would make three encyclopedias."

It was too late, however, to act upon second thoughts which might or might not be "best." Peter
was in the automobile, and it had started. Even if he went back, it would doubtless be only
to find Miss Child gone. He tried to console himself with the fact that Ena had been nice to
the girl, and that Miss Child had said--or anyhow intimated--that she would write. If she didn't,
he could, at worst, find out her whereabouts by going to Nadine. Superior as Miss Child was
to the other dryads, she would surely keep up communication with them. Miss Devereux was the
sort who might lunch with him on the strength of "old friendship." He would give her oysters
and orchids, and find out how things were going with the girl who had left her dryadhood behind
the cabin door.

He tried to console himself with these arguments, but the pleasure of homecoming was spoiled.
Father did not show any very exuberant joy at seeing him again, and it was disappointing to
a warm-hearted nature if people were not exuberant, even for a minute, when you had been away
for months.

The automobile, with its gray-silk cushions, its immense plate-glass windows, its travelling
boudoir of mirrors, gold scent bottles, and other idiocies, its bouncing bouquet of fresh violets,
its electric fittings, its air pillow embroidered with silver monograms and crests, its brocade-lined
chinchilla rugs, tricky little extra seats, and marvellous springs, struck Peter as disgustingly
ostentatious.

He wondered what Raygan and his mother and sister would think of folks in a democratic country
using chinchilla for automobile rugs; and he was sure they must be having interior hysterics
over the Rolls coat of arms--a dragon holding up a spiky crown of some nondescript sort on
a cushion. The dragon looked rather like a frog rampant, and the crowned cushion bore a singular
resemblance to a mushroom with an angry ladybird on its apex. How this family insignia had
been obtained Peter did not know. His ribald questions had been treated by his sister with
silent scorn. He would not be surprised if Ena had designed the thing herself!

As the car smoothly bowled Peter out of Winifred Child's life, away toward the Long Island
manor house and the welcome mother would give, the deposed dryad was having her first experience
of New York.

She parted company on the pier with Nadine (in private life Lady Darling), Nadine's manageress,
Miss Sorel, and the quartet of models. They had almost forgotten her before they had gone two
blocks "uptown"; and she had no reason to remember any of them with affection, except, perhaps,
Miss Sorel, a relative of her one-time dressmaker who had "got her the job."

Win had heard that the cost of cabs was "something awful" in America, but she said to herself:
"Just this first time I must have one." A bad night and the scene with Peter had dimmed the
flame of her courage, and she felt a sinking of the heart instead of a sense of adventure in
the thought of taking a "trolley." She would be sure to lose herself in searching for the boarding-house.

Her luggage--checked and in the hypnotic power of a virile expressman--had already vanished.
It would arrive at its destination ahead of her. Perhaps there was no room there. In that case
it would be sent away. Dreadful picture! False economy not to take a cab! Win supposed that
a taxi would be no dearer than the horse variety and one would sooner learn the secrets of
the future.

One of these secrets began to hint at its own hideous nature with every convulsive tick of
the metre. It hiccuped nickels, and as Win's terrified eyes, instead of taking in New York,
watched the spendthrift contrivance yelping for her dollars, she remembered that she owned
but two hundred. She had had to be "decent" about tips on board. But forty pounds--two hundred
dollars--had looked magnificent in her hand bag that morning. Paper money spread itself in
such a lordly manner and seemed able to buy so many separate things. But by the time the merciless
taxi had bumped her through devious ways up to Fifty-Fourth Street, three of the beautiful
green dollar bills were as good as gone.

She longed to pray "Oh, do stop taxying!" at the doorstep before she darted up to inquire whether
Miss Hampshire still kept the boarding-house; and it was maddening to hear that "teuf, teuf"
desperately going on, chewing its silver cud, in the long pause before an answer came to the bell.

A black woman who flung open the door was startling as a jack-in-the-box for the English girl.
Win had thought of American negroes but vaguely, as a social problem in the newspapers or dear
creatures in Thomas Nelson Page's books. What with the surprise and the nervous strain of the
disappearing dollars, she asked no further questions after the welcome news that Miss Hampshire
existed and had a "room to rent." Hastily she paid off the chauffeur, adding something for
himself (it seemed like tipping the man at the guillotine) and breathed again only when her
trunk and dressing-bag blocked the narrow hall.

"I'm sure I don't see whoever's goin' to tote them things up to the third story," sighed the
female jack-in-the-box, who was, after all, more purple than black when you looked closely,
an illusion produced by a dusting of pink powder over a dark surface. "And how do I know Miss
Hampshire'll take you?"

"But you said there was a room." The freeborn independence of a whole nation, irrespective
of colour, shocked the effete stranger's breath away. She gasped slightly.

"Yeh. But that ain't to say you can have it. Miss Hampshire's mighty pertickler about her woman
boarders," explained the purple lady. "You catched me all of a heap or I wouldn't o' let that
feller slam yer things into the house and git away. You'll have to wait till I call Miss Hampshire.
She'll talk to you."

"Tell her I was recommended by Miss Ellis, from London who boarded here three years ago," Win
desperately tossed after a disappearing figure.

It was a mortifying commentary upon her personal appearance not to be invited to wait in the
drawing-room, and Miss Child wondered what foreign strangeness in hat, hair arrangement, or
costume had excited suspicion. She did not know whether to be more angry or amused, but recalled
her own motto, "Laugh at the world to keep it from laughing first."

Suddenly the episode became part of an adventure, a great and wildly funny adventure, of which
she was dying to see the next part. How she would love to tell Mr. Balm of Gilead! How his
eyes would twinkle! But--there was no Mr. Balm of Gilead in this or any world. It was a dreary
hall she stood in, with varnished brown paper pretending to be oak panels, a long-armed hatrack
that would have made an ideal scarecrow, and ghosts of past dinners floating up from below
with gloomy warnings.

From the same region came Miss Hampshire, smelling slightly of Irish stew. She was pale with
the pallor which means shut windows and furnace heat, a little sharp-nosed, neat-headed woman
in brown, whose extraordinarily deep-set eyes were circled with black, like spectacle rims.
She was graciously willing to accept a guest recommended by Miss Ellis, hinting that, as she
was of British ancestry, the English for her came under the favoured nation clause.

"To you the room with board'll be ten dollars a week," she said with flattering emphasis. "A
well-known poetess has just left it to be married. It's not large, but, being at the back of
the house, it's nice and quiet."

When Win was shown the third-floor back hall bedroom she saw that even a poetess of passion
might have snapped at her first proposal. As Miss Hampshire said, it was not large; but there
was the advantage of being able to reach anything anywhere while sitting on the bed, and unless
the people six feet distant in a back room of the opposite house snored at night it ought to
be quiet.

Win christened her room the "frying pan," because to search for another boarding-house might
be jumping into the fire. And luckily her trunk would just squeeze under the bed.

"I suppose it would be no use calling on a business man before three o'clock?" She applied
to Miss Hampshire for advice when she had unpacked her toothbrush and a few small things for
which she could find niche or wall space.

"Before three? And why not?" The pale lady opened her eyes in their dark caverns.

"Why, I only thought they wouldn't be back in their offices from luncheon," explained the English
girl.

"When you know a little more about N'York," replied Miss Hampshire, whose manner was involuntarily
less mellow when she had hooked a fish, "you'll see why it could never be run as it is along
those lines. Many of our most prominent business men consider a piece of pie with a tumbler
of milk a good and sufficient lunch, and it takes them five minutes to swallow it."

Primed with this information and intricate instructions concerning street cars (a child once
burned dreads a taxi), Winifred started out soon after her own midday meal, eaten in a basement
dining-room.

She went first to see the editor; for somehow newspaper reporting seemed more congenial to
the vivid New York climate than singing in a church choir, and the hugeness of the To-day and
To-morrow building turned her again into a worm. It did not so much scrape the sky as soar
into it, and when she timidly murmured the words "editorial offices" she was shot up to the
top in an elevator as in a perpendicularly directed catapult.

When the fearsome thing stopped she had the sensation that her head alone had arrived, the
rest had been shed on the way, but in a large open space furnished with roll-top desks and
typewriters and men and girls she was looked at as though nothing unusual had happened.

"A letter of introduction for Mr. Burritt?" repeated a young man with a whimsical expression.
"I'm afraid you'll have to go higher up to deliver it."

"I thought I'd got to the top," said Win. "Or"--and she tried to catch the office note of sprightliness--"does
he inhabit a roof garden?"

The young man smiled. "He used to be fond of them after office hours. But not being a spiritualist,
I haven't heard from him concerning his present habits."

"He is--dead?"

"That's about it," said the young man. "A year ago. But he was only our city editor, so maybe
he didn't get a black border in your English papers."

Miss Child did not ask how one knew that she was English. She recovered herself, thought of
taking leave, and then decided not to be precipitate. Instead, she inquired if she could see
any other editor.

"Which other have you got a letter to?" the young man temporized.

"None. But---"

"Then I'm afraid it's no use without an appointment. Anyhow, this isn't the right hour to snapshot
editors of daily papers. They're night-blooming flowers. Would you like to try for an appointment
with Mr. Shaw, Burritt's successor?"

Win thanked him, but thought it would be no use. She would have liked to walk down, only there
seemed to be no stairs. A merry youth who ran the nearest elevator asked if she would care
to use the fire-escape.

The address of Mr. Noble, the organist, was that of a private house. It was a far cry from
To-day and To-morrow, up in the hundreds, and Miss Hampshire had told Miss Child to take the
elevated. Easier said than done. You could go up the steps and reach a platform on top of the
improved Roman viaduct, but there were so many other people intent on squeezing through the
iron gate and onto the uptown train--people far more indomitable than yourself--that nothing
happened except the slam, slam of that gate in your face.

At last, however, Miss Child was borne along with a rush from behind and found herself swinging
back and forth like a pendulum on a strap which she clutched wildly. Men in America were supposed
to jump up and give women their seats, but there were no men in this train. It was peopled
with women who had been shopping, and who carried bundles. Many went on so far that Win began
to believe they were taking a jaunt for fun, especially as they did not seem at all tired,
but chewed something unremittingly with an air of calm delight. This was, perhaps, what Americans
called a "joy ride!"

There seemed to be no end to New York, and vistas of cross streets looked so much alike that
Win did not wonder they were named only with numbers. She wanted One Hundred and Thirty-Third
Street, and Mr. Noble's house was a long way from the elevated station. When she found it at
last it was only to learn that six months ago the organist had accepted a position in Chicago.
And New York seemed twice as big, twice as absent-minded, when both letters of introduction
had failed.

Win had often tried to check her tendency to over-optimism by telling herself that neither
Mr. Burritt nor Mr. Noble might have work to give. But Miss Ellis (now comfortably married
in London) had said they were kind men. If they had nothing to offer, they would certainly
introduce Miss Child to some one who had. It had never occurred to her that they might thoughtlessly
have died or gone elsewhere. Editors and organists seemed so importantly permanent to the lay mind.

This was indeed being alone in New York! And at the very thought--now she could guess what
it might be like--her one hundred and ninety-six dollars and twenty-eight cents seemed to be
shrinking in the wash.

"Nonsense!" said she, on the elevated again, tearing downtown. "Don't be a silly. Any one would
think you were the leading lady in a melodrama, turned out of the house without your hat, in
a snowstorm that followed you round the stage like a wasp! You'll be all right. Miss Ellis
told you they loved English girls in New York. Just you wait till to-morrow, my dear!"

The rest of the day she spent in the frying pan, "pulling herself together," and "seeing where
she stood," a process consisting mostly of counting her greenbacks and comparing them with
their equivalent in English money. After all, there was not too much time for this mental adjustment
of things, because, being late in October, darkness fell early, and Miss Hampshire's boarders
dined at six-thirty. Promptness was obligatory if you were a female. A little more latitude--a
raising of the eyebrows instead of a frown--was granted if you were fortunate enough to be
of the opposite sex. Miss Hampshire's sad smile seemed to concede that men had temptations.

There were bank clerks and schoolteachers and translators though no more poetesses; and everybody
was kind to the new boarder, the Englishwoman, especially in telling her all about New York.

"What do you think of Broadway?" asked her neighbour a handsome young German Jew, who was more
insistently American than any of those native born.

Win was shamefacedly not sure whether she had seen it.

"Not sure whether you have seen Broadway!" exclaimed Mr. Löwenfeld. "Wait till you've been
on the Great White Way after dark. Then I guess you won't make any mistake."

"Is it so wonderful?" she asked.

"I should smile! There's nothing like it on earth. Would you like to walk out and see it to-night?
Miss Secker and I'll take you, if you would, won't we, Miss Secker?"

"Only too pleased," rather shrilly replied a fair-haired girl on his other side--a pretty girl
in eyeglasses who, Miss Hampshire had announced, was "translating secretary" for a firm of
toy importers. Somehow the tone suggested to Win an incipient engagement of marriage and jealousy
of new importations.

But Mr. Löwenfeld had spoken no more than the truth. Broadway at night, seen as a pedestrian
at the side of Miss Secker, was astonishing, was marvellous, was unique. The whole sky was
alight and pulsing with its magnificence. Twenty moons would not have been noticed. Everything
that could happen was happening by electricity. It was Crystal Palace Fireworks, and the Lord
Mayor's Show, and Coronation, and Mafeking, and naval manoeuvres with searchlights, all flashing
and flaming, blazing and gyrating at the same time. Broadway gleamed white as the north pole,
jewelled with rainbow colours, amazing rubies, emeralds, topazes, grouped in letters or forming
pictures on invisible frames rising high above tall buildings or appearing on their façades.

Green sea waves billowed brightly, a giant cat winked golden eyes, two brilliant boxers fought
an endless round, a dazzling girl put on and took off illuminated gloves; a darky's head, as
big as a balloon, ate a special brand of pickled melon; a blue umbrella opened and shut; a
great gilded basket dropped ruby roses (Buy them at Perrin Frères); a Japanese Geisha, twice
life-size, told you where to get kimonos; a trout larger than a whale appeared and disappeared
on a patent hook; and above all, brighter than all, rose against the paling sky from somewhere
behind Broadway a pair of titanic hands.

These hands fascinated Win. They beckoned her gaze and held it. Slowly they came up and drew
attention to themselves, silently filching it from Broadway's emblems of business success.
The stranger in New York stopped involuntarily as if hypnotized, watching for the ten colossal
outspread fingers to materialize on their unseen frames; to become hands, with wrists and upraised
arms; and then to drop out of sight, like the last appeal for help of a drowning Atlas who
had lost his grip on the globe.

Yet this immense, arresting gesture was never the last. Three seconds gone, then blazing back
again, came fingers, hands, wrists, arms. And on every one of the ten fingers (including thumbs)
flashed a huge ring, each different from the other in colour and design. Each ring was adorned
with a jewelled letter, and as the hands reached toward the zenith the colour of the rings
changed rapidly twice. It was impossible to remove the eyes from this sign until the gesture
pageant had completed itself. To the lost dryad New York seemed dominated by Peter Rolls's Hands.

CHAPTER VII

THE TWO PETERS

The hands of Peter Rolls!

They had Winifred Child's imagination in their grip. Sleeping and waking, she saw the glitter
of their rings. For on her first night in New York Mr. Löwenfeld told her a story about the hands.

They were the hands of Peter senior. His commercial genius had spread them across the sky to
beckon the public to his great new department store on Sixth Avenue. Just as at the beginning
of the gesture you saw only the tips of the fingers, so Peter Rolls, Sr., had begun with a
tiny flicker, the first groping of his inspiration feeling its way to success.

Everybody in the United States had heard of Peter Rolls, or it was not the fault of the magazines
and Sunday papers. Peter Rolls had been for years one of the greatest advertisers in America.
Mr. Winfield didn't see how, even on a remote little island like England, Miss Child could
have escaped hearing about Peter Rolls's hands. This had now become the snappy way of saying
that you intended to shop at Peter Rolls's store: "I'm going to the Hands." "I'll get that
at the Hands." And Peter Rolls had emphasized the phrase on the public tongue by his method
of advertising.

Each advertisement that appeared took the same form--a square space heavily outlined in black
or colour, held up by a pair of ringed hands, facsimiles in miniature of his famous sky sign.
And the several thousand salespeople in the huge store were slangily nicknamed "Peter Rolls's
hands." But naturally these insignificant morsels of the great mosaic were not spelled with
a capital H, unless, perhaps by themselves, and once when a vaudeville favourite sang a song,
"I'm a Hand, I'm a Hand." It was a smart song, and made a hit; but Peter Rolls was said to
have paid both the star and the management.

Apparently nothing concerning Peter Rolls, Sr., and his family was hidden from Mr. Löwenfeld
and Miss Seeker, although they claimed no personal acquaintance with the great. Probably, if
Win had asked, they could have told how many servants Mrs. Rolls kept and how many cases of
champagne her husband ordered in a year. But questions were unnecessary. The subject of a self-made
millionaire was a fascinating one to the lately naturalized German.

Peter Rolls, Sr., had emigrated from the north of Ireland as a young boy. He had contrived
to buy a few cheap odds and ends likely to attract women buried in the country far from shops.
He had somehow known exactly what odds and ends to select. That was genius; and he had coined
money as a peddler. In his wandering life he made acquaintance with many tramps and saw how
he might make even the lowest useful. After a few years he scraped up enough capital to start
a small store in New York, far downtown, where rents were cheap.

Like his peddler's pack, the store was stocked with odds and ends. But again they were just
the right odds and ends, the odds and ends that every one in that neighbourhood wanted and
had never been able to obtain under one roof. No article cost less than five cents, none more
than a dollar, and it was marvellous what Peter Rolls could afford to sell for a dollar.

"I Can Furnish Your Flat for Ten Dollars. Why? Because I Work with My Own Hands," was Peter
Rolls's first advertisement. And the Hands had never lost their cunning since.

He could undersell any other shopkeeper in New York because he got his salesmen for next to
nothing. They were a judicious selection from among his friends, the tramps. Any man who could
recall enough of his schooling to do a little sum in addition was eligible. He was fed, clothed,
tobaccoed, judiciously beered, watched all day while at work, and shut up at night in a fireproof,
drink-proof cubicle. The plan proved a brilliant success. The little store downtown became
a big one, and grew bigger and bigger, swallowing all the other stores in its block; and it
was now ten years since the great Sixth Avenue department store, which could call itself the
largest in New York, was opened under the benediction of the Hands.

Winifred had fancied, because of the balm which was making a fortune, that Peter Rolls, Sr.,
was some sort of a glorified chemist. But Mr. Löwenfeld roared at this idea. The Balm of Gilead
was only one of the lucky hits in the drug department, in itself as big as a good-sized provincial
store. The Hands sold everything, and though the tramps were long ago dead or abolished, Peter
Rolls still undersold every other store in New York. How did he do it? Well--there were ways.
The hands without a capital H might tell, perhaps; but they did not talk much. Peter Rolls
never had any difficulty in obtaining or keeping as many of them as he wanted, and could get
double the number if he liked.

"Does he still 'work with his own hands?'" quoted Win at last, feeling half guilty, as if she
ought not to ask questions about Peter's father behind Peter's back. But the affairs of the
Rolls family seemed to be public property. Mr. Löwenfeld and Miss Seeker both laughed.

"I should love," said the latter, "to see Ena Rolls's face if her father did work! She spells
their name with an 'e'--R-o-l-l-e-s--and hopes the smart set on Long Island, where their new
palace is, won't realize they're the Hands. Isn't it ridiculous? Like an ostrich hiding its
head in the sand. She runs her father and mother socially. I guess the old man hardly dares
put his nose inside the store, except about once a year; and Ena and the old lady never buy
a pin there. As for the young fellow, they say he doesn't bother: hates business and wants
to be a philanthropist or something outlandish on his own. I should say to him, if he asked
me: 'Charity begins at home.'"

Those last two sentences spoken by Miss Emma Seeker on Winifred Child's first night in New
York had as direct an effect upon the girl's life as if the ringed hands had come down out
of the sky and clutched her dress. She did not attach much importance to the words at the time,
except to think it snobbish of Miss Rolls and weak of her mother never to show themselves under
the roof where their fortune was being piled up. Also, she thought it disappointing of Peter
junior not to "bother" about the business which had been his father's life work. But then Peter
was altogether disappointing, as Miss Rolls (with an "e") had disinterestedly warned her.

It was not until Win had been in New York for a month that the influence of Miss Seeker's words
made itself felt, and the Hands gave their twitch at the hem of her dress. They had been on
her mind often enough during the four weeks--morning, noon, and night--but she had never known
that she was physically within touching distance.

The "happy omen" of getting her passage to New York free had stopped working on the Monarchic.
Since then bad luck had walked after her and jumped onto her lap and purred on her pillow,
exactly like a cat that persistently clings to a person who dislikes it. All the positions
which she was competent to fill were filled already. Only those she could not undertake seemed
to be open. She tried to sing, she tried to teach, she tried to report news, she tried to be
a publisher's reader, and to get work in a public library. She tried to make hats, she tried
to act, but nobody wanted her to do any of these things, unless, perhaps, she went away and
trained hard for a year. When matters began to look desperate, and not till then, she applied
to Nadine.

But Lady Darling had gone back to England, and Miss Sorel, not having recovered her health
after the great tossing at sea, had been replaced by a brand-new American manageress. No more
models were wanted. There was nothing that Miss Child could do, and the only result of her
visit was delight in the heart of Miss Devereux because "that queer Child girl was laughing
on the wrong side of her mouth." The new manageress was so preoccupied in manner and so sure
that Miss Child's services would not be needed that Win did not even leave her address. Besides,
as it happened, she had given Miss Hampshire "notice," and had not yet found another boarding-house.

"I think I ought to try to get into a cheaper place," she explained. And that was a reason;
but another, just as important, was pretty Miss Seeker's jealousy because Mr. Löwenfeld talked
too much to the English girl at the table.

After all, the best that Win could accomplish after three days' dismal search was a saving
of two dollars a week. For eight dollars she secured a fourth-story back hall bedroom half
as big and half as clean as Miss Hampshire's, and she laughed aloud to find herself feeling
desperately homesick for the "frying pan." For Win could still laugh.

It was counting her money, the day after a servant at the new boarding-house stole twenty dollars,
that whisked Miss Child's skirt within reach of the Hands. Things could not go on like this.
She must get something to do at once--no matter what. Another girl in that house bought newspapers
for the sake of the employment notices. Winifred borrowed the papers and answered many of the
most attractive offers in vain. Next she tried the less attractive ones. When they were used
up--and she also--she came down to what she called bed rock.

In bed rock were advertisements of several large stores for extra help through the holiday
season. Of these Peter Rolls's store was at the head. "The Hands want hands," was part of the
appeal, and Win instantly turned to something else. It was not until she had applied for work
at six other shops, and found herself too late at all, that it began to seem faintly possible
for her to think of going to Peter Rolls's father's store.

When the idea did knock at the door of her mind hesitatingly as Peter junior used to knock
at the dryad door, the Hands' advertisement for help was the last of its kind in the papers.
The Hands needed more hands than any of the other stores.

When Win was just about to say to herself, "That's the one thing I couldn't do," she remembered
Miss Seeker's words. Miss Rolls ruled her father and mother socially. Peter senior was allowed
to show his nose in the place only about once a year. Mrs. and Miss Rolls never bought a pin
there. Young Peter didn't bother, but wanted to be a philanthropist. In fact, you would, apparently,
be far more likely to meet a member of the Rolls family in any other shop than their own.

Instead of saying that she could not, Win said: "Why shouldn't I?" She told herself that in
a vast house of business which employed over two thousand salespeople she would be a needle
in a haystack--a needle with a number, not a name. "I'll go and ask for a place," she answered
her own question.

But almost she hoped that she would not succeed. If she tried, failure would not be her fault.

CHAPTER VIII

NO. 2884

Morning and girl were gray with cold as Win hovered before the vast expanse of plate glass
which made of Peter Rolls's department store a crystal palace. Customers would not be admitted
for an hour, yet the lovely wax ladies and the thrilling wax men in the window world wore the
air of never having stopped doing their life work since they were appointed to it.

But then they had a life work of the most charming description. Winifred envied them. It was
indeed their business to make all men, women, and children who passed envy them enough to stop,
enter the store, and purchase things to make real life as much as possible like life in the
window world.

All the nicest things which could be done in the strenuous outside world could in a serene
and silent way be done in window world. And the lovely ladies and their thrilling men had not
to hustle from one corner of the earth to another in order to find different amusements.

In one section of plate-glass existence beautiful girls were being dressed by their maids for
a ball. Some were almost ready to start. Exquisite cloaks were being folded about their shoulders
by fascinating French soubrettes with little lace caps like dabs of whipped cream. Other willowy
creatures were lazy enough to be still in filmy "princess" petticoats and long, weblike, silk
corsets ensheathing their figures nearly to their knees. A realistic dressing-table, a lace-canopied
bed, and pale-blue curtains formed their background. Instead of having to rush half across
New York to the dance, it was apparently taking place next door, with only a thin partition
as a wall.

In a somewhat Louis Seize room several wondrous wax girls and the same number of young men,
with extremely broad shoulders and slender hips, were dancing a decorous tango. But, if they
tired of that, they had only to move on a section, to find a party of four young people playing
tennis in appropriate costumes against a trellis of crimson ramblers. Strange to say, a mere
wall divided this summer scene from sports in the high Alps. There was gorgeous fun going on
in this portion of window world, where men and girls were skeeing, tobogganing, and snowballing
each other in deep cotton snow. Next door they were skating on a surface so mirrorlike that,
in fact, it was a mirror.

A little farther on a young wax mother of no more than eighteen was in a nursery, caressing
an immense family of wax children of all ages, from babyhood up to twelve years. A grandmother
was there, too, and a hospital nurse, and several playful dogs and cats. In another house they
were having a Christmas tree, and Santa Claus had come in person to be master of ceremonies.
How the children on the other side of a partition, engaged in learning lessons at school desks,
must have envied those whose Christmas had prematurely come! But best of all was the automobile
race; or, perhaps, the zoo of window world, where Teddy bears and Teddy monkeys and Teddy snakes
and Teddy everythings disported themselves together among trees and flowers in Peter Rolls's
conception of Eden.

Win had often glanced into these windows before, hurrying nervously past, but now she lingered,
trying to fill her heart with the waxen peace of that luxurious land of leisure. She walked
very slowly all around the great square, three sides of which were crystal, the fourth being
given up to huge open doors, through which streamed men and parcels and hurled themselves into
motor vans. The idea flashed into the girl's head that here was the cemetery of window land.
In those big boxes and packages that men furiously yet indifferently carried out, were the
dolls or animals that had smiled or romped behind the plate glass, or the dresses and hats,
the tennis rackets and toboggans they had fondly thought their own.

This promenade of inspection and introspection put off the evil minute for a while; but the
time came when Win must hook herself on to the tail of a procession constantly entering at
an inconspicuous side door, or else go home with the project abandoned.

"Of course I shall never see Peter Rolls or his sister here," she told herself for the twentieth
time, and passed through the door almost on the back of an enormous young man, while a girl
closed in behind her with the intimacy of a sardine.

"Gee! Get on to the tall Effect in brown!" murmured a voice.

"Ain't she the baby doll?" another voice wanted to know.

Winifred heard, and realized that she was the Effect and baby doll in question. She flushed,
and her ears tingled. She thought of the Arabian Nights tale, where the searcher after the
Golden Water was pestered by voices of those who had been turned to black stones on the way.

When the cue of tightly packed men and women had advanced along a corridor on the other side
of the doorway, it began mounting a fireproof staircase. Up and up it went, slowly, steadily
rising from story to story, but it did not spread across the whole width of the wide, shallow
steps. Other men and women, in single file and with no attention to order, pushed themselves
down, the ascending gang flattening them against the varnished, green wall as they sneaked
hastily past. No one spoke to Win or told her anything (though the big fellow in front threw
her a jovial glance when she trod on his heel, and she herself ventured a look at the rear
sardine), but she knew somehow that the irregular, descending procession was the defeated army
in flight; those who "would not do." She wondered if she should be among them after a few hours
of vain waiting and standing on her feet.

Seven flights of stairs she counted, and then she and those in front and behind debouched into
a corridor much longer than that at the entrance on the ground floor.

"They might have shot us up in the customers' lifts!" snapped the sardine who had just detached
herself from Winifred's spine. "'Twould have saved their time and our tempers."

"They don't spend money putting up fireproof staircases for nothing," mumbled a voice over
the sardine's shoulder. "They want to give us a free exhibition of an emergency exit. But it'll
be the only thing we ever will get free here."

"Except maybe the sack--or the bounce," tittered the sardine.

There was something likable about that sardine. Win felt drawn to her, which was fortunate
in the circumstances.

Nearer and nearer they approached, with a kind of shuffle step, to an office whose whole front
consisted of window. This window was raised, and electric light streaming out brightened that
distant end of the otherwise economically lit corridor. The advance guard of would-be hands
stepped one at a time in front of a counter which took the place of a window ledge. Now and
then a girl or a man was kept for several moments talking to a person whom Win could not yet
see; a kind of god in the machine. This halt delayed the procession and meant that a hand was
being engaged; but oftener than not the pause was short, and the look on the late applicant's
face as he or she turned to scurry back like a chased dog along the corridor told its own story.

Win read each human document, as a page opened and then shut forever under her eyes, with a
sick, cold pang for the tragedy of the unwanted. She ceased to feel that she was alien to these
young men and women, because they were American and she English. A curious impression thrilled
through her that she and these others and all dwellers on earth were but so many beads threaded
on the same glittering string, that string the essence of the Creator, uniting all if they
but knew it.

The realization that hearts near hers were beating with hope or dread, or sinking with disappointment,
was so keen that the heavy air of the place became charged for Win with the electricity of
emotion. She felt what all felt in a strange confusion; and when a stricken face went by, it
was she, Winifred Child, who was stricken. What happened to others suddenly mattered just as
much and in exactly the same degree as what might happen to her. The weight of sadness and
weariness pressed upon her. The smell of unaired clothes and stale, cheap perfumes made her
head ache.

"Tired, girlie?" inquired the big young man on whose broad back Win had involuntarily reposed
on the way upstairs She was startled at this manner of address, but the brotherly benevolence
on the square face under a thick brushwood of blond hair reassured her. Evidently "girlie"
was the right word in the right place.

"Not so very. Are you?" She felt that conversation would be a relief. It was intensely cold
yet stuffy in the corridor, and time seemed endless.

"Me? Huh! Bet yer my place yer can't guess what my job was up to a month ago."

He turned a strongly cut profile far over his shoulder, his head pivoting on a great column
of throat above a low, loose collar that had a celluloid gleam where the light touched it.
Only one eye and the transparent gleam of another cornea were given to Winifred's view, but
that one green-gray orb was as compelling as a dozen ordinary seeing apparatuses.

"If I guessed what's in my mind, I'm afraid it would be silly," said Win. "You look as if you
might be a--a boxer--or---"

"Or what?"

"Or as if you could train things--animals, I mean---"

"Gee-whittaker! If she ain't hit it square in the jaw first round! Go up ahead, little girl.
This is where I move down one."

The sardines were now so loose in their partially emptied box that they could wriggle and even
change positions if they liked. The big young man wheeled, passed his arm round Winifred's
waist as if for a waltz, half lifted her off her feet, and set her down where he had been.

"Good gracious!" she gasped.

"That's what you get for bein' a bright child," he explained "The place is yours. See? If Peter
Rolls wants only one more hand when your turn comes, you're it, and I'm left. I was lion man
in Jakes's and Boon's show, but my best lion died on me, and that kind o' got my goat. Guess
my nerve went; and then brutes is as quick as fleas to jump if they feel you don't know where
you are for once. That shop is shut for yours truly, so I'm doin' my darnedest to get another.
If Peter Rolls can use me, he can have me dirt cheap. I want to feed my face again. It needs it!"

"You give Father one straight look between the eyes," suggested the sardine, now at his back,
"sort of as if he was a lion, and I'd bet my bottom dollar, if I had one, he dasn't hand you
the frosty mitt."

"Who's Father?" the lion tamer threw over his shoulder Win had longed to ask the same question,
but had not liked to betray herself as an amateur.

"Oh, I forgot this was your first party! Wish 'twas mine. Father's what the supe--the superintendent,
the gent in the window--gets himself called by us guyls."

"Wipe me off the map! I'm some Johnny to cost you all that breath. But gee! the thought of
standin' up to him gets my goat worse 'n twice his weight in lions. I'm mighty glad this young
lady's gotta go through with it in front of me. Say, maybe you'll push the right bell with
him, too."

"I hope we both may," answered Win fervently. "It's more than kind of you to give me your place,
but really I---"

"Ain't we the polite one?" remarked the lion tamer. "Say, girlie, you've made a hit with me.
Where did you buy your swell accent?"

"Don't make fun of me, please, or I shall drop!" exclaimed Win with a laugh nipped in the bud,
lest it should reach the august ear of Father.

This way of taking the joke appeased those within hearing, who had perhaps believed that the
tall Effect in brown thought a lot of herself and was putting on airs. Her seeming to imply
that she might be considered ridiculous inclined censors to leniency.

"Have a spruce cream?" asked a girl in front, screwing her head round to see what the Effect
was like, and offering a small, flat object about an inch in width and two in length.

"Thank you very much," said Win.

Every one near tittered good-naturedly. Perhaps it was that accent again! Funny, thought Win.
Her idea had been that Americans had an accent, because they didn't talk like English people
who had invented the language. Americans appeared to think it was the other way round!

She put the flat thing into her mouth and began to chew it. At first it was very nice; sugary,
with a fresh, woodsy flavour which was new to her. Presently, however, the sweetness and some
of the taste melted away, and instead of dissolving, so that she could swallow it, the substance
kept all its bulk and assumed a rubbery texture exactly like a doll's nose she had once bitten
off and never forgotten. She coughed a little and did not quite know what to do.

"Good heavens', she's goin' to absorb it!" ejaculated the girl in front, still twisting to
gaze at the tall Effect. "Didn't you never chew gum before?"

"Only millionaires can afford it in my country," said Win, recovering herself. The laugh was
with her! But every sound made was piano. There was the feeling among the mice that this was
the cat's house.

The girl in front who had offered the chewing gum was small and just missed being very pretty.
She had curly hair of so light a red that it was silvery at the roots. Seeing her from behind,
you hoped for a radiant beauty, but she had pale, prominent eyes and a hard mouth. Win imagined
that the muscles in her cheeks were overdeveloped because of chewing too much gum.

At last the procession had moved on so far that this girl arrived at the lighted window. Win's
heart, which had missed a beat in a sudden flurry of fear now and then, began to pound like
a hammer.

For the first time she could see the god in the machine, the superintendent of Peter Rolls's
vast store, a kind of prime minister with more power than the king. She had fancied that he
would be old, a man of such importance in a great establishment, a person who had the nickname
of Father. But her anxious gaze, as she carefully kept her distance, told that he was not even
middle-aged. He was, it seemed, a curious mixture of cherub and Mephistopheles in type: round
faced, blue eyed, with smooth cheeks that looked pink even in the cruel electric light. His
hair and brushed-up eyebrows were thin and of a medium brown; but he had a sharply waxed moustache
and a little pointed goatee or "imperial" so much darker in colour that they were conspicuous
objects.

He was talking to the girl in a high-keyed yet somewhat blustering voice, asking questions
which Win could not and did not try to hear. The answers were given purposely in a low tone,
and the girl laid on the counter several papers from a little black bag at her waist. These
the superintendent took up, unfolding them with plump, dimpled fingers, like those of a young
woman.

With his bright, glancing blue eyes he skimmed the contents of each paper--probably references,
thought Win--and then returned them to their owner.

"These are no good," he pronounced in a louder voice than before. "And you don't look strong
enough for Christmas work---"

Suddenly the red-haired girl darted her head forward, like that of a pecking bird, hastily
muttered a few words, and drew back, as if hoping that those not concerned might fail to notice
the manoeuvre.

"Oh--er--that's different," said the superintendent in an odd, uncomfortable tone, with the
hint of "bluster" still in it. Win fancied she heard him add: "What salary?" In any case, the
girl mentioned the sum of eight dollars, and at the same time scribbled something on a printed
paper form pushed over the counter.

"Bet that ain't your line, kid," there came a murmur round the corner of a velvet bow on Win's
hat. So faint was the murmur that she might almost have dreamed it; but, if uttered, it must
have dropped from heaven or the lion tamer's lips.

Win was burning with curiosity. What two or three talismanic words could the red-haired girl
have whispered so quietly, so secretively, to change in a second the superintendent's decision?
It was almost like freemasonry. You whispered to the hangman, and he, realizing that you were
a member, took the noose off your neck!

Alas, if Father refused her services, as he almost surely would, she had no such magic charm
to make him change his mind! There was certainly a mystery, a secret password that did the
trick; but the lion tamer, though a newcomer in this business like herself, appeared to know
or guess, and bet that it "wasn't in her line."

Too late to ask questions! Her time had come. The red-haired girl, looking prettier than before
because of a bright flush on her sallow face, pranced away, head triumphantly up, and a key
and a queer little book in her hand.

Before Win realized what was happening she stood before the big, lighted window, longing though
not daring to rest her trembling elbows on the counter. The cherubic yet keen blue eyes were
staring into hers with the oddest expression she had ever seen. If the man had not been an
important official, far above her (he would have thought) in position, Win might have fancied
that he was afraid of her, afraid of something which he half expected, half dreaded, wishing
to avert it, yet likely to be mortified if it did not come.

"I must be out of my mind," she told herself, at the same time telling him that she desired
an engagement as an extra hand.

"What references?" he inquired, with the mechanical intonation of one who has put the same
question thousands of times.

"I--haven't any," stammered Win. "I'm lately over from England---"

"You don't need to mention that," broke in the superintendent. "I know London. Have you worked
in any of the big department stores there--Harrods' or Selfridge's?" He looked, Win thought
(clinging to a straw of hope), as if he were not unwilling to help her.

"No, none. I was a model for Nadine. I'm quick at doing figures---"

"The figures that models cut are more to the point, I guess!" The cherub Mephistopheles smiled
at this joke and did not seem to care just then that his every extra word kept the procession
back an extra instant. "We're not wanting models at present. But if you've had any experience
as a saleslady--you look all right--well, see here, I'll try and give you a chance. It's up
to you to make good, though. What money do you want? Write it down."

He indicated one of those forms which Win had seen. She hesitated, then felt that the blue
eyes were watching her keenly. Hesitation was not the way to succeed in this home of hustle.
She remembered that the red-haired girl, though she must have had experience or she would not
have possessed references, had said something about eight dollars. "I'll say seven," Win told
herself, and wrote accordingly on the paper.

"We can't pay seven dollars per week to a girl without experience," pronounced the superintendent
promptly. "If you want to take six, I'll give you a test of character. You ought to be thankful
for six. By and by you may work up into one of the departments where we pay commissions."

"I'll take six," Win said.

Though already she knew something of the expense of living in New York, six dollars a week
certainly seemed generous compared with shop-girls' wages at home. She had been told that there
they got only twelve or fourteen shillings, and sometimes less. Of course, in England, you
"lived in." Win had heard that expression, and was aware of its meaning. She was not yet quite
sure what you did in America, for she had talked to none of her very few acquaintances about
the need she had to look for work in a department store. There was only one thing she did know
in that connection: it would be unwise to ask Father questions.

She must appear to be "all there," and trust to finding out the routine of a New York shop-girl's
life from one of themselves. She hoped the sardine would be engaged--nice, trim little sardine
with smooth black pompadour, small white face, jewel-bright eyes, pugnacious nose, determined
chin! A snappy yet somehow trustworthy sardine.

Still the superintendent was observing her, as if to see whether she were warranted sound and
kind. "I'm going to put you into a bargain square," said he thoughtfully. "Do you know what
that means?"

"I can guess," said she.

"One of our two-hour bargain sales will tell better than anything else whether you've got stuff
in you," he went on. "Have you ever seen a check book?" was the question now flashed at her.

Win had just sense enough left not to blurt out any nonsense about a bank. In an instant she
realized that the pads upon which salespeople did hasty sums must be called check books, anyhow
in America. She answered that she had seen one.

"Know what to do with it?"

"On principle. I can soon learn the method."

"Soon's a long word. You may have time for it, your side. We haven't. Things have gotta be
learned on the nail. See here, what about your dress? Are you wearing black under that jacket?"

Win's heart jumped. She had not expected, if engaged, to begin work the next moment. She had
supposed that she would be told to return the next morning before the opening hour for customers;
otherwise it might have occurred to her that it would be well to get a ready-made black dress.
But she must not throw away this chance which seemed to be hanging in the balance.

"No," she answered quickly. "I thought it would be better to buy something here when I knew
just what was wanted. I can find a dress which will fit, I know. I always can, and I can be
in it fifteen minutes from now."

"Well," the superintendent said with half-grudging approval that lit a faint twinkle in his
eyes, "you're no slow coach for an Englishwoman. You may do. We sell 10 per cent. off to our
employees. Here's the key of your locker. Here's your check book. When you've got your dress,
ask for the schoolroom. Take fifteen minutes' lesson on the blackboard for making out your
checks, and the rest's up to you. But look sharp. We've been open to customers for half an
hour now. At ten-thirty a two-hours' bargain sale of blouses, sashes, and ladies' fancy neckwear
opens on the first floor. That's yours. You must be in the square more than half an hour before
the sale begins, to see stock and learn your job."

He eyed her sharply to see if she were "feazed." But Win had the feeling that a "stiff upper
lip" was needed for the honour of England and the pluck of its womanhood. She remembered one
of the stories she had loved best as a child--the story of the task Venus set for Psyche before
she could be worthy of Cupid, the lover whose wings she had burned with a drop of oil from
her lamp. Now the girl, grown out of childhood, understood how Psyche had felt when told to
count the grains of wheat in Venus's granary within a certain time limit.

"Well, anyhow, Psyche didn't ask questions, and I won't," she said to herself. "The kind ants
came and told her things: maybe the sardine will come to me."

Looking almost preternaturally intelligent and pleased with life, Win accepted the key and
check book, and learned with a shock that, as one of Peter Rolls's hands, she was No. 2884.

CHAPTER IX

THE TEST OF CHARACTER

The sardine's ears must have been sharp, for although the lion tamer was between her and Win
(like a thick chunk of ham in a thin sandwich), she had heard something of the conversation
at the superintendent's window.

"Try the basement bargain counters for your dress; you'll get it cheaper," she flung after
the tall Effect in a shrill whisper as the newly engaged hand flashed by.

There wasn't a second, or even half a second to lose, yet Win slackened her pace to say "Thank
you. I do hope we shall meet again."

Even the lion tamer threw her a look, though already he had taken his turn at the window; but
Win did not see the admiring glance. She was flying down the stairs she had come up so slowly,
and did not pause for breath until she was in the basement. There it was so crowded and so
hot, though the store had been open to customers not quite an hour, that there seemed little
air to breathe, even had there been time.

Win could see no means of ventilation in the immense room, which was brightly and crudely lit
by pulsing white globes of electricity. There were no partitions to divide one department from
another, and it seemed as if samples of every article in the world were being sold on these
rows upon rows of heaped-up tables.

Taking her for a customer, a floorwalker saved the bewildered girl from wasting more than a
minute of her valuable time. The thermometer of his manner fell a degree when he learned that
she was an employee; nevertheless, he directed her to the bargain counter where black dress
skirts were being sold. There was another nearby which offered black silk and satin blouses.
The man asked if she had been told that extra hands, if on probation, must give money down
for anything above the first week's wage, and looked impressed when the tall girl answered
that she preferred to pay cash for the whole.

"Princess, queen!" he murmured sotto voce, and Win might have had the privilege of exchanging
a smile with him on the strength of the joke, but thought it might be wiser not to have heard.

Luckily black skirts and blouses were not the craze of the moment. Women were besieging a beehive
of corsets and a hotbed of petticoats, reduced (so said huge red letters overhead) to one third
of their original price. In less than five minutes Win had secured a costume with the right
measurements, and for the two portions of which it consisted, had paid exactly one week's salary.

With an unwrapped parcel rolled under one arm, she battled her way back to the staircase she
had descended (not daring to squeeze her unworthy body into a crowded elevator), and toiled
up to the eighth floor. There, she had been told, were dressing-rooms as well as lockers; a
rest room (converted into a schoolroom from the hour of eight until ten), and the restaurant
for women employees.

Lightning change act first! Black Effect to take the place of brown, a rush for the dressing-room,
vague impression of near marble basins and rows of mirrors; tall, slim girl in front of one,
quite the proper "saleslady" air, in new, six-dollar black skirt and silk blouse lightened
with sewed-in frills of white, fit not noticeably bad; dash along corridor again for locker
room, but sudden wavering pause at sight of confused group: half-fainting girl in black being
handed over to capped and aproned nurse by two youths at an open door, glimpse of iron bedsteads
etched in black against varnished white wall, door shut with slap; youths marching light heartedly
away, keeping time to the subdued whistle of "Waiting for the Robert E. Lee."

Girls sometimes faint here, then, before ten o'clock in the morning! And quite a matter of
course to shed them in the hospital room, otherwise one wouldn't try one's tango steps going
away. But never mind; laugh first, or the world will! Life easier for Peter Rolls's hands as
well as other people if they can live it in ragtime. Your turn to fall to-day. Mine to-morrow.
"Waiting for the Robert E. Lee!" And whatever you may think, don't lose a minute.

Winifred did not. Perhaps she, too, was beginning to think in ragtime. She was telling her
number to the doorkeeper of the locker room as the slap of the hospital door ceased to vibrate
through the long corridor on the eighth story.

The locker room had countless rows of narrow cells with iron gratings for doors; and the gimlet
gaze of two stalwart young females pierced each newcomer. It was their business to see that
Peter Rolls's hands did not pilfer each other's belongings. The gimlet eyes must note the outdoor
clothing each girl wore on arrival, in order to be sure that she did not go forth at evening
clad in the property of a comrade. Being paid to cultivate suspicion had soured the guardian
angels' tempers. One had a novel by Laura Jean Libbey, the other an old-fashioned tale by Mary
J. Holmes, to while away odd minutes of leisure; but it appealed to the imagination of neither
that any or all of the girls flitting in and out might be eligible heroines for their favourite
authors, stolen at birth from parent millionaires, qualifying through pathetic struggles with
poverty to become the brides of other millionaires, or, perhaps, to win an earl or duke.

All the regularly engaged hands had long ago shut up their hats and cloaks in prison and gone
about their business. It was only the extras who were arriving at this late hour to show their
numbers and claim their lockers. There were comparatively few amateurs. Most of the girls had
had shop experience, but greenhorns betrayed ignorance as they entered. To them, shortly and
succinctly, were explained the rules: the system of "stubs" dealt out to newcomers as they
gave their numbers and had lockers assigned them--stubs to be religiously kept for the protection
of property from false claimants; the working of a slot machine, in which must be slipped a
card, and the moment of the morning and midday arrival thus recorded with ruthless exactitude
(twenty-five cents docked off your pay if you were late), and other odds and ends of routine
information, such as the hours at which lockers might or might not be opened without the presentation
of special passes.

As Win fitted her key into the grated door which would in future pertain to No. 2884, into
the locker room bounced the sardine.

"Hello, Lady Ermyntrude!" said she. "I thought I'd pick you up some place. Just a jiffy, and
we can skip to the schoolroom together, if your ladyship pleases."

"I am glad!" said Win, and as they went out side by side she ventured to add: "Please do tell
me why you call me Lady Ermyntrude. I hope I'm not like anything so awful as that?"

"Oh, there's always a Lady Ermyntrude in every English book you read, and you look as if you'd
walked out of one. I don't know why, but you do. I kind of like you, though."

"So do I you," said Win, but did not tell her that she was a sardine. This might be a worse
epithet in a foreign language even than Lady Ermyntrude.

"I'm for the toy department. What are you?" rapped out the clear little voice that matched
the clear little personality--a personality which, at the top of its pompadour, did not reach
the tip of Win's ear.

"Mine is called a two-hour bargain sale---"

"Heaven help you! Basement?"

"No, ground floor."

"Thank your stars. That's a cut above. Most amatoors start in the basement bargain sales. If
they live through the first day of that--well! But you're all right. You've got the look of
the ones who win."

"That's my name--'Win'--Winifred Child."

"If you ain't the Champion Giant Kid! I'm Sadie Kirk. Here's the schoolroom. When it ain't
that, it calls itself the rest room, you know. I'm here only because there's a little difference
in Rolls's check system from Bimgel's, where I worked till the grippe laid me low and my place
was filled. I thought I'd try the Hands for a change, though they say it's the limit and down
the other side. So me for the school! We'll sit together, and if I can help you I will."

"You're a dear," whispered Win.

"You're another. Go there yourself," was the swift retort.

The rest room was really very nice, if there were ever a chance to rest in it--which, Miss
Kirk whispered, was not likely to be the case. There were wall bookcases with glass doors,
a few oak-framed engravings with a pale-green, "distempered" background, several chintz-covered
sofas with cushions, and plenty of easy chairs.

On small tables lay very back numbers of illustrated papers and magazines. The high windows
had green curtains which softened their glare and (said Sadie) prevented dust from showing.
The brown-painted floor had decorative intervals of rugs, like flowery oases. Altogether the
room would have been an excellent "show place" if any influential millionairess began stirring
up public interest in "conditions of shop-girl life."

One end wall of the long, narrow room was almost entirely covered by an immense blackboard,
supposed to represent a check book. In front of this stood a pale young man with a timid air,
who coughed and cleared his throat a good deal as he explained to a group of girls Peter Rolls's
specially simplified, modernly improved system of adding up the prices of purchased "goods"
in the quickest and most scientific manner. Win listened intently, easily catching the idea,
but wondering if she should get "rattled" when she had to put it into practice in the coming
"two-hour bargain sale." Miss Kirk, however, soon saw that the difference between this and
other systems was not complicated enough to trouble her, and let her wits wander from one subject
to another.

"That's a salesman teaching," she whispered up to her tall protégée. "He's new to the job,
I guess, and scared of us guyls; but I bet he bullies men when he gets the chance! He'll tuyn
out another Father."

Win, not having forgotten her curiosity concerning the red-haired girl's mysterious murmur
to the superintendent, longed to question the sardine, who had the air of knowing everything
she ought and ought not to know. But the newcomer could not afford to lose a word that dropped
from the nervous teacher's lips. "Do tell me about it later," she pleaded. "I must listen to this."

"All right. Are you lunching in or out?"

"Oh, in, I suppose."

"So will I, then, though I hear it's filthy and the grub vile. We'll try and make a date."

Win dared not answer. With difficulty she caught the last part of the lecture. Then her fifteen
minutes of schooling were over and the real battle of life as one of Peter Rolls's hands was
to begin.

No time for the luxury of luncheon appointments. The two girls must meet or not, as luck ordained.
The toy department was on the sixth floor, so the parting came almost at once, and Win went
down to meet her fate alone.

A floorwalker, or "aisle manager," showed her the place where the "great two-hour bargain sale
of coloured blouses, sashes, and ladies' fancy neckwear" was advertised to begin at ten-thirty.
As he steered the girl through the crowd he looked at her with interest, and she would have
looked with interest at him could she have done so without his knowing it. She had vaguely
heard that shopwalkers in England could make or break the salespeople. Probably floorwalkers
in America were the same, or more powerful, because everybody in this free country who had
any power at all seemed to have more than he could possibly have anywhere else.

This man was extremely handsome she saw in the one quick, veiled glance which can tell a girl
as much as a boy is able to take in with a long stare. He was tall and dark and clean shaven,
with polished black hair like a jet helmet, and brown eyes. Few princes could hope to be as
well dressed, and if he had been an actor, only to see his shoulders would have made a matinée
girl long to lay her head upon one. Why wasn't he an actor, then, at many dollars a week, instead
of a floorwalker at a few? It must be that his fairy godmother had forgotten to endow him with
some essential talent.

Seeing that he looked at her sympathetically with his rather sad, dark eyes, Win ventured with
all respect to beg a little enlightenment as to a two-hour bargain sale.

"It means that certain things are marked down for two hours," he explained, "and after that
anything left of the lot goes up to the old price again. It's a pretty hard test for one who's
new to the whole business. The superintendent, Mr. Meggison, has put you on to a pretty stiff
thing," he added. And then again, after an instant's pause: "You're going to land in a wasps'
nest over there. There's some electricity in the atmosphere this morning. But keep your head
and you'll be all right."

They came within sight of a hollow square formed by four long counters. Above it was a placard
with red and black lettering which announced the sale to begin at half-past ten; everything
to be sold at bargain price till twelve-thirty. Within were six saleswomen, two for each side
of the square; and the question flashed through Win's head: Why had she been imported to make
an odd number? It was an exciting question, taken in connection with the floorwalker's warning.

Until sale time these counters were out of the congested region; and the six saleswomen were
taking advantage of the lull before the storm to put finishing touches on the arrangement of
the stock. The instant that Win was inside the square it was as if she had been suddenly swallowed
up in a thunder cloud. The head saleswoman (she must be that, Win thought, judging from the
attention paid her by the rest) was in a black rage--a beautiful Jewess, older than the others,
and growing overplump, but magnificently browed, and hardly thirty yet.

"It's damnable!" she panted, full breast heaving, throat swelling with stifled sobs, "to put
this onto me! Anybody with half an eye can see through the trick. The Queen of England couldn't
get rid of these nasty rags at a charity bazaar."

She went on without noticing the newcomer, except to flash across Win's face and figure a lightning,
Judith glance which seemed to pitch a creature unknown and unwanted into the bottomless pit
where all was vile. Her satin-smooth olive hands, with brilliantly polished coral nails, trembled
as, gesticulating, she waved them over the stock which littered the four counters. She seemed
to be throwing her curse upon blouses, sashes, and ladies' neckwear; and had she been a witch,
with power of casting spells, the masses of silk and satin would have burst into coloured flame.

"Oh, Miss Stein, don't feel that way about it," pleaded a thin girl who looked utterly bloodless.
"The things are marked down so low maybe they'll go off."

"Look at them--look at them!" broke out the Jewess. "Is there anything you'd take for a present,
one of you? They might as well have sent me to the basement and be done with it. But I'll show
him, and her, too, how much I care before the day's out."

So fierce was the splendid creature's emotion that Win felt the hot contagion of it. What had
happened she did not know, though evidently the others did and sympathized, or pretended to.
But even she, a stranger, could spring at a conclusion.

Miss Stein was called upon to sell things which she thought no customers would buy. Somebody
in power had put her in this position, out of spite, to get her into trouble. There was another
woman in the case. There must be jealousy. This tigerish Judith was suffering as keenly as
a human creature could suffer, and all because of some blouses, some sashes, and ladies' fancy
neckwear, which certainly had an unattractive appearance as they lay on the counters in confused
heaps.

"He says, 'it's up to you, Miss Stein!'" the quivering voice jerked out in bitter mimicry.
"Up to me, indeed! And he gives me this rag bag!"

"It'll be nuts to her if you're downed," remarked a girl with a round, pink face.

"Don't you think I know it?" Miss Stein demanded fiercely. Her eyes filled with tears, which
she angrily dried with a very dirty handkerchief that looked strangely out of keeping in the
manicured hands. "There's nothing to do, or I'd do it, except to give him a piece of my mind
and throw up the job before they have the chance to fire me."

"You wouldn't--just at this time!" cried the anemic girl.

"Wouldn't I? You'll see. I don't care a tinker's curse what becomes of me after to-day."

Win's ears were burning as if they had been tweaked. The minutes were passing. She could ask
no help, no information concerning her duties. If she put a question as to what she was to
do she would be snubbed, or worse. Could the far-away and almost omnipotent Mr. Meggison have
had secret knowledge of this lion's den into which he had thrown her? He had said the bargain
square and the two-hours' sale would be a test of character. At this rate, she would fail ignominiously,
and she did not want to fail. But neither did she want the beautiful Jewess to fail. Her anxiety
was not all selfish. "A test of character!" Was there nothing, nothing she could do for her
own and the general good?

Suddenly her spirit flew back to the ship. Peter Rolls's face came before her. She saw his
good blue eyes. She heard him say: "If ever I can help---"

How odd! Why should she have thought of him then? And no one could help, least of all he, who
had probably forgotten all about her by this time, Miss Rolls having spoiled his horrid, deceitful
game. She must help herself Yet it was just as if Peter had come and suggested an idea--really
quite a good idea, if only she had the courage to interrupt Miss Stein.

She and Peter had chatted one night on B deck about the Russian dancers and Leon Bakst's designs.
She had lectured Peter on the amazing beauty of strangely combined colours, mixtures which
would not have been tolerated before the "Russian craze." Now Peter seemed to be reminding
her of what she had said then, a silly little boast she had made, that with "nothing but a
few rags and a Bakst inspiration" she could put together a gorgeous costume for a fancy-dress ball.

"When you want to set up for a rival to Nadine, I'll back you," Peter had retorted, and they
had both laughed.

Now, with the immense but impersonal "backing" of Peter Rolls, Sr.'s, great shop, she had the
Bakst inspiration and the tingling ambition to set up (in a very small way) as a rival to Nadine.

"I beg your pardon," she stammered to Miss Stein, and hastened on as a fierce, astonished look
was fastened upon her from under a black cloud of stormy brow. "I--I hope you'll excuse my
interrupting, but I've been a model of Nadine's, and--and I have an idea, if you'll allow me--I
mean, you don't seem to like these things we have to sell. I believe we could make something
of them if we hurried."

All through she had the feeling that if she could not hold Miss Stein's eyes until she had
compelled interest, hope was lost. She put her whole self into the effort to hold the eyes,
and she held them, talking fast, pouring the magnetic force of her enthusiasm into the angry,
unhappy soul of the other.

"What do you mean?" asked Miss Stein, abruptly taking the sharp, judicial air of the business
woman. Half resentful, half contemptuous, she could not afford to let slip the shadow of a chance.

"I'll show you, if I may," said Win.

She, the outsider, the intruder, suddenly dominated the situation. The others, even Miss Stein
herself, gave way before the Effect in black as it came close to one of the counters and with
quick, decided touches began manipulating those blouses, sashes, and ladies' fancy neckwear
which the Queen of England could not sell at a charity bazaar.

A box of steel pins of assorted sizes lay on a cleared corner of the counter which Win had
approached. It had been brought, perhaps, for the pinning of labels onto the newly repriced
stock. Win took a purple sash and draped it round the waistline of a dull-looking, sky-blue
blouse. Quickly the draping was coaxed into shape and firmly held with pins. Then under the
collar was fastened a crimson bow ("ladies' fancy neckwear!") which had been hideous in itself,
but suddenly became beautiful as a butterfly alighting on a flower.

"My!" exclaimed the anemic girl, and glanced cautiously from under her eyelids to see whether
approval or disgust were the popular line to take.

But Miss Stein--still resentful, and now beginning to be jealous of a green hand's originality
and daring taste--was not an Oriental for nothing. She didn't possess the initiative ability
of a designer, but she could appreciate the crashing music of gorgeous colours met together
on the right notes. Love of colour was in her Jewish blood, and she was a shrewd business woman
also, animated with too vital a selfishness to let any opportunity of advancement go. She seized
the new girl's idea at a glance, realized its value and its possible meaning for herself.

"That's queer, but it's smart," she pronounced, and five anxious faces brightened. "I'd 'a'
thought o' that if I hadn't been so awful worried; my head feels stuffed full o' wadding. I
don't seem to have room for two ideas. Me and you can tell the guyls what to do, and they'll
do it. See here, as fast as we get those things fixed we'll hang 'em up on the line and make
a show. Gee! they'll draw the dames a mile off, just out of curiosity and nothing else."

"And when we get them we'll get their money, too," Win prophesied cheerfully. "We'll christen
these things Pavlova Russian Sash-Blouses, and say it's the latest dodge only to pin them together
so purchasers can change the drapery to fit their figures. When we've sold all we can finish
before ten-thirty we'll make a point of pinning on drapery and neckties in the customers' presence
to suit their taste. I can undertake that part, if you like."

"You do think you're some girl, don't you?" was Miss Stein's only comment. But Win saw that
she meant to accept the scheme and "work it for all it was worth."

A light of hope and the excitement of battle shone down the dull flame of anger in her eyes.
There was no gleam of gratitude there, and if Win had wanted it she would have been disappointed;
but just at this moment she wanted nothing on earth save to push that beautiful Jewess to a
triumph over "him and her" and to make the two-hour sale of Pavlova Russian Sash-Blouses a
frantic, furious success.

CHAPTER X

PETER ROLLS'S LITTLE WAYS

Something strange had happened in the ground-floor bargain square. The wasps' nest had suddenly
turned into a beehive. The buzz of rage had lulled to the hum of industry. Fred Thorpe, the
"aisle manager," was blessed with the tact which only some secret sympathy or great natural
kindness can put into a man; and it had kept him at a distance from Miss Stein that morning.
He knew the inner history of that particular bargain sale, and there were reasons why he should
understand with peculiar acuteness the humiliation she had been doomed to endure. His presence
on the scene would make matters worse, and he had obliterated himself as much as possible.

Nevertheless he saw all that went on in that direction, and the sudden and remarkable change
which took place immediately after the tall English girl's arrival amazed him. He did not know
what to make of it, but it was so evidently a change for the better, and the time before the
sale was so short, that he decided to sink conventions and let the saleswomen alone.

The floorwalker had plenty of other things to keep him busy, but his subself eyed the strenuous,
mysterious preparations for the coming two-hour sale of blouses, sashes, and ladies' fancy
neckwear. Five minutes ago the unfortunate stock (which finished the latest chapter of Stein-Horrocks-Westlake-Thorpe
inner history) had laid in neglected heaps on the four counters which walled in the hollow
square. Miss Stein and her five companions had confined their energies to examining labels,
and that in a perfunctory manner, a mere cloak for feverish whisperings. The sale was doomed
to failure--had been doomed from the moment that Mr. Horrocks, the manager of the department
(who was also a sub-buyer), had "dumped" a disastrous purchase from a bankrupt sale onto the
girl whom every one knew he had jilted for Miss Westlake. There was far more in it than that;
an intricate intrigue of shop life. But so much at least was common property in the department;
and the elevation of Miss Westlake, the humiliation of Miss Stein, could be seen by all, for
Miss Westlake close by was selling the most entrancing new fichus which had begun the day with
a succès fou.

No use advising Miss Stein to buck up and do her best. Anything Fred Thorpe could say on the
subject would be bitterly misconstrued. He realized that her conception of the part to play
was to make the worst of things instead of the best and snatch what satisfaction she could
from a flare-up. That was what Horrocks wanted, of course, but she was past caring, or so it
seemed until the sudden change took place after the appearance of the new girl.

Soon Thorpe began to understand the scheme. With an eye for colour and a swiftness of touch
that was almost incredible, unsympathetic blouses were changed into daring yet dainty "confections."
As fast as the girls finished draping the sashes and pinning on fantastically knotted ties
of contrasted colours, they hung up the most attractive of their creations on lines above the
counters which had been meagrely furnished forth with a few stringy, fringed sashes. While
some girls worked like demons in transforming "stock," others arranged it on the lines and
counters. Complete "Pavlovas" only were displayed in prominent places. Such things as could
not be ready in time for the sale opening were grouped as prettily as possible, according to
colour schemes, on the two less conspicuous of the four counters--those which faced away from
the more frequently occupied avenues of approach.

This was doubtless Miss Stein's experienced contribution to the plan of battle; but, clever
saleswoman as she was, when brain and heart were cool, Thorpe realized that all credit for
originating the scheme should be given to the new girl. "She's a live wire," he said to himself,
though his deepest sympathies were for Miss Stein. And he saw the "smartness" of Mr. Meggison
in "spotting" No. 2884 for this place.

Meggison was, of course, "onto" the situation, for the whole secret of the man's sudden rise
lay in his capacity for knowing and keeping track of every current and undercurrent of life
in each department. With Miss Stein at their head, her five assistants would not put the energy
of one into disposing of the hated stock, therefore Meggison had sent an "extra." He had chosen
a new girl because she would not "take sides," and a girl who looked as if she might hold her
own against odds, because she would need all her "ginger" if she were to "make good." Besides
Thorpe said to himself, Meggison might have his eye upon her, perhaps, as something out of
the common run of extras merely hired for the holidays and intend to test her.

Somehow all the department managers and floorwalkers and head salesmen smiled dryly when they
thought of Meggison (who had lately been promoted) in connection with any girl. They seldom
put into words what lay behind the smile, for you never knew who might be a spy--a "sneak"
or a "quiz." But all the men knew his one laughable weakness, and would rather get hold of
a "sample" of it than be treated to a champagne dinner at the Waldorf.

Long before half-past ten women who wanted blouses and had seen the newspaper advertisements
of the two-hour bargain sale began to inquire where it would be held. Thorpe was constantly
obliged to direct them, and watching them group where they could see the decorations of the
square, his ears were sharpened for comments.

The quick minds of American women soon caught the idea which the colour arrangement conveyed.
"Why, it's like the things the Russian dancers wear!" said one.

"It's the newest trick I've seen yet," said another.

Thorpe could not help thinking of the difference between these exclamations and those he had
expected to hear when the advertised blouses first burst on the beholders eyes.

At ten-thirty to the second the waiting women pounced. Win's nerve failed her for an instant
in the hot forefront of her first battle, but she caught at Miss Kirk's remembered words: "You've
got the look of those who win," and the floorwalker's advice: "Keep your head and you'll be
all right." She mustn't be a coward. She mustn't fall at her first shot.

Soon she realized that she need expect no help from Miss Stein or the five satellites who took
their cue from her. The Russian inspiration had happened to be acceptable but she was to be
shown that she mustn't take advantage of her start. The question or two she began to ask had
for an answer: "Good Lord, don't bother me!" "If you can't see for yourself, what are your
eyes for?" or "This ain't the schoolroom, I don't think!"

Maybe, she told herself, the girls were not always like this. To-day they were desperate, and
no wonder. She mustn't mind a few snubs. They hardly knew what they were saying. The check
book was more formidable than it had seemed on the blackboard, and she envied the others their
quick, almost mechanical way of adding and subtracting. Would she ever be like that? Meanwhile
the thing was to keep the entries in her check book correct.

She was saved, perhaps, by the need which soon arose for one girl to put in shape for customers
the blouses, sashes, and ties which had not been pinned together. Just as her brain began to
reel over a difficult calculation which must be made in a clamouring hurry, Miss Stein commanded
a change of work.

"As soon as you're through with this customer," was the order.

Win took time to draw breath and finished the sum correctly "I should have gone flump over
the next!" she thought, with a thankful sigh, for she was in her element, choosing colours
and draping sashes to suit customers' "styles." Miss Stein grudged her the distinction, but
granted it for the sake of business. If the girl showed signs of "uppishness" when the sale
was over she should soon be made to see that it wouldn't pay.

Even as it was, Win used up one whole check book, containing fifty order forms, and also her
own vitality. She had no time to realize how tired she was until half-past twelve brought the
sale to an end. Even then a thing that happened pushed away thought of self for a few more moments.

Walking beside Mr. Thorpe, the aisle manager, came a big, auburn-haired, red-moustached man
of thirty three or four, with a particularly pleasant, smiling face of florid colour and excitable
blue eyes. He looked boyishly obstinate, and yet, Win thought, as if he might be easy to "get
round," unless some prejudice kept him firm. She would not have thought of him at all had not
the flush which suddenly swept over Miss Stein's face suggested that this was "he."

Win was instantly sure that here was the man in the case; now, cherchez la femme! And she had
not to search far.

The two men did not come to the bargain square, but he of the red moustache slowed down to
throw a glance of intense interest at the denuded counters and the customers who lingered,
though the sale was ended, to buy "Pavlovas" at their suddenly augmented price. He spoke to
the floorwalker, and got some answer which Miss Stein would evidently have given at least a
week out of her life to hear. Then the pair passed on, but only to pause again plainly--too
plainly--in sight of all eyes in the hollow square.

The red-moustached man parted company with his companion and went straight to a counter where
lace scarfs and fichus and wonderful boudoir caps were achieving a brilliant success. Instantly
a fairy-like brunette with cherry lips and a bewitching, turned-up nose came forward with a
sweet meekness that was the subtlest kind of coquetry. Whatever he had to say was said in a
second or two, and the girl answered as quickly. But she went back to work with a conscious
look which would to any watching woman announce that she considered the man her property.

"Little pig!" Win said to herself. "She's purring with joy because Miss Stein saw. (Do pigs
purr?) Anyhow I am glad we've made a success. That must be some comfort! Why, at the Hands
it's like a big theatre with a lot of different stages, where the curtains go up unexpectedly
and give you a glimpse of an act."

But exciting as the plays were, the one in which she herself had a part began to seem very
long drawn out when the first wild rush of the two-hour act was over. Miss Stein, without a
word of appreciation to the new recruit who had saved the day, went off with the anemic girl
to lunch. Two others left at the same time, and only a couple of the old guard remained to
hold the fort with Win. Three were quite enough, however, to cope with the diminished trade.
Customers, as well as saleswomen, were thinking of food; and as the crowd in the shopping centres
of the great store thinned perceptibly, no doubt it thickened to the darkening of the air in
the famous Pompeian restaurant on the top floor.

Most of the best "confections" in the hollow square were sold, and Win was aware, as interest
slackened, that she felt "rather like a hollow square" herself.

There was a little "flap" chair turned up against each of the four counters, and at ebb-tide
of custom Win looked at them wistfully.

"I suppose we're allowed to sit down for a minute when there's nothing to do?" she inquired
of a plump, dull-eyed girl who was furtively polishing the nails of one hand with the ball
of her other palm.

"We're legally allowed to, if that's what you mean," replied the other. "But we're not encouraged
to. I wouldn't, my first day, anyways, if I was you."

"Thank you very much," said Winifred. "It's good of you to tell me things. I won't sit down,
since you advise me not. But it is hard, standing up so long, especially after such a rush
as we've had, isn't it?"

"Oh, if you think this is hard!" echoed the plump girl, Miss Jones. (Win noticed that the saleswomen
called each other by name, though officially they were numbers.) "You ain't bin three hours
yet. Wait and see how you feel to-night when ten o'clock comes."

"Ten o'clock!" gasped Win. "I thought we closed at six."

"We're supposed to shut up then, but folks won't go these busy weeks. They can't be chased
out. And we have to stay hours after they have gone, putting away stock and--oh, shucks of
things. Little do the swell dames care what happens to us once they're outside the doors. I
guess they think we cease to exist the minute they don't need us to wait on them."

"I've always heard that rich American women took such an interest in the working--I mean, in
us, who work," Win hastily amended.

"Oh, when they're old or sick of their diamonds and their automobiles they think it'll be some
spree to come and stir us guyls up to strike against our wrongs. But when we've struck it's
just about their time for getting sick of us. I got caught that way once when I worked in a
candy-box factory. I bet I don't again! See here, I'm kind of sorry for you if you thought
the Hands was a party where they asked you to sit down and have afternoon tea. Fred Thorpe,
the floorwalker in this depart, is a real good feller, and he'd be glad to give us a rest--a
big difference between him and some I've knowed! But he dasn't treat us as white as he'd like.
In this show every Jack and Jill is watched from above. There ain't nobody except Father himself
das' call his soul his own. If a chap thinks he's safe to do some tiny thing his own way, gee!
a brick falls smack on his head. That's one of Peter Rolls's little ways."

Win shivered slightly to hear that name thus used, but Miss Jones was absorbed in her subject.

"Us guyls ain't even supposed to talk to each other, except about business," she went on. "But
that's just the one thing they can't stop, and they know they can't, so they have to wink at
it. You see, though, the way I keep folding the goods or pretending to look for something every
instant, so you'd most think I'd got the St. Vitus's dance? Well, that's because if we just
stood with our heads together poor Thorpe would have to come careering over here and inquire
what was the subject of our earnest conversation. He'd hate it like poison, but he'd do it
all the same, or the feller above would know the reason why."

"I thought he seemed kind and nice--I mean Mr. Thorpe," said Win.

"No use trying to mash him! He's gone on Dora Stein. Say, did you get on to the sale job? I
somehow thought you did."

"I saw there was some trouble," Win hesitated.

"Trouble? There's nothing but trouble. Anybody'd think we was asking for it! This blessed depart
is upset from way back since the promotions began. Our last superintendent got the sack through
his drunken wife coming around the place makin' scenes. And Mr. Meggison was put over another
man's head. That made t'other feller so mad he blowed out his brains. 'Twas in the papers,
but it got hushed up mighty quick. The news, not the brains, I mean! Old Saint Peter knows
some tricks of hushin' up.

"Well, anyways, that set the ball rolling, and our head salesman was jumped up to be department
manager and buyer right over Thorpe's head. 'Twas too much for him, and he gave Dora Stein
the toss. Now he wants her out of his shine, and he dumped some jay stuff he bought in a bankrupt
sale on her to get rid of. The head buyer give him beans for bein' fooled over a snide lot
of trash like that, so what he does is to visit it on us. He hoped Dora'd get mad and clear
out so he wouldn't see her eyes on him every time he walked past to give Miss Westlake, his
new guyl, the glad eye. But I guess now Miss Stein's made such a big success where he hoped
she'd fail, she'll stay pat."

As Miss Jones finished her story she watched Win's face to see if it changed, but there was
no sign that the newcomer grudged Miss Stein the credit. She was actually smiling.

"There's something queer about that girl," Miss Jones presently murmured to Miss McGrath at
the other end of the square, as Win was called upon to serve a lady who had been told at luncheon
about the Pavlovas. "She ain't natural. What'll you bet she's a spy? I'm goin' to ask Miss
Stein what she thinks."

CHAPTER XI

DEVIL TAKE THE HINDMOST

Miss Kirk was almost ready to go from the restaurant to work again when Win appeared, a three-cent
entrance ticket in her hand, to face an atmosphere crowded with sundry uncongenial members
of the vegetable kingdom.

"Hello, 2884 England!" Sadie feigned facetiously to call her up by telephone. "Got yer number,
all right, you see! I begun to think they'd rung me off, so I wouldn't get onto you again this
side heaven. And say, that reminds me: heaven looks a long way from here, don't it?"

Win smiled.

"Good thing! You ain't got yer smile rubbed off yet. Stick to it if y'can. It's a fine prop.
I otta go in a minute, but you're such a chicken if I don't watch out for you y'might get lost
in the wash. Any one put you wise on that three-cent billy doo?"

"The girl at the door told me I was to buy it of her," said Win, "and then I could divide it
up for three different things to eat. But can one get three different things to eat for three
cents? It seems wonderful!"

"You won't be so much surprised when you've got 'em et. I'd try a soup, a mutton sandwich,
and a cuppa cawfee for eight cents, if I was you. But see here, I ain't goin' to feed my face
in this ranch after to-day. I knowed pretty near how punk 'twould be from things guyls told
me about the Hands, and I only took a meal so as to see you and ask how the Giant Child was
gettin' along. No more o' this grub for mine! And if I was in your place I'd go out to eat.
You get a breath o' fresh air; and a cuppa hot chocolate for a nickel at a drug store, with
a free lunch o' crackers thrown in, 'll do you a sight more good than the best there is in
this dope shop."

Long before Miss Kirk had finished pouring out advice, the eight-cent lunch of soup, sandwich,
and coffee had been slapped down on a dirty tablecloth by a frantic rabbit of a waitress. The
big restaurant was dim, even at midday, because its only windows gave upon a narrow court which
separated that part of the building from another part of equal height. It was so dark that
perhaps the hard-worked females who cleaned it might be excused for passing blemishes sunlight
would have thrown into their faces.

One did not exactly see the dirt (except on the cheap, unbleached "damask" flung crookedly
over the black oilcloth nailed onto table tops); but, like a cowardly ghost that dares not
show itself, in some secret, shuddering way the squalor was able to make its presence felt.
Now and then a black beetle pottered across the oilcloth-covered floor; and though a black
beetle may happen anywhere, it potters only where it feels at home, otherwise it scurries about
in desperate apology for living. The soup was cold and greasy and tasted of an unscoured pot.
The mutton sandwich, as Sadie remarked, would have been better suited to the antique department;
and the coffee, though hot, might as easily have been tea or cocoa, or a blend of all three.

"What a shame to feed their people like this!" exclaimed Win, who had thought she was hungry,
but now found herself mistaken. And again the eyes of Peter Rolls, Jr., seemed to be looking
straight into hers. No wonder he was what his sister hinted at if he knew all about this and
had not the heart to care! And if he didn't trouble to know, it was just as bad.

"They don't want to feed us, you see," said Sadie, slowly finishing a baked apple which looked
like a head-hunter's withered trophy. "On the low prices they're obliged to charge they can't
make a cent offen us. Besides if all the guyls et in the house they'd have to give up more
of their valuable room. They'd rather we'd go out, so long as we're back in time. Only the
poorest ones, who have to look twice at every cent, feed in the restaurant as a reg'lar thing;
or the weak ones, who're so dead tired they can't bear to take a nextra step. And oh, by the
way, talkin' o' that, you'll need foot powder. Your first week your feet'll hurt that bad you'll
be ready to bawl. But if you can stand it and your back bein' broke in two at the waist it'll
be better the week after, and so on, till you won't notice so much. Now I must go or I'll be
docked, and I ain't the betrothed of a millionaire yet. But tell me where you live. Me and
you might see something of e' juther, if you feel the way I do."

"I liked you the minute I looked round the corner of my shoulder and saw you plastered onto
my back!" laughed Win, already revived, not by the food, but by some subtle emanation of strength
and sympathy from the more experienced girl. "I wish I could live near you. The boarding-house
where I am is too expensive, and I've given notice to leave on Saturday."

"My! You'd turn up your nose at Columbus Avenue, I guess," said Miss Kirk. "That's where I
hang out. It ain't a boardin'-house. What's the use shellin' out for meals and not bein' home
to them? I'd like awful well to have you in the same movie with me. There ain't a guyl I care
to speak to on the film! But the 'L' runs past the place, and some folks say it otta be spelled
with 'H.' The noise pretty near drove me bughouse at fyst, but I'm settlin' down to it now.
And oh, say, that big feller whose best lion died on him (good thing 'twasn't his best guyl!)
he told me he's come to Columbus to room with the chum w'at put him onto wuykin for the Hands.
He's in the toy department with me and feels real at home with the Teddy bears. I could get
you a room in my house for two dollars per."

"Per what?" Win was obliged to ask.

"Per week. Per everything. And if you take my tips about grub, and do your own waists and hank'chiffs
Sundays--laundry 'em, I mean, instead of wallerin' in bed like a sassiety bud, you'll have
money to burn or put in the mishrunny box."

"I'll come!" exclaimed Win. "Please engage the room. If it's good enough for you, it's good
enough for me, and I'll put up with the noise for the sake of your society."

"My! Thanks for the bookays and choclits! Ta, ta! I'll wait for you to-night at the stage entrance
with the other Johnnies."

She was off with the promptness of a soubrette after an "exit speech," and Win was left to
sip her stale coffee or spend what remained of her "off time" in the rest room next door.

Legally, Peter Rolls was supposed to give his hands an hour for the midday meal, but in the
rush of the holiday season a way had been found for whipping the inconvenient little law devil
round the post. Employees were asked to "lend" the management half of the legally allotted
hour, the time to be repaid them later, so that after Christmas they might take once a week
an hour and a half in the middle of the day instead of an hour. Those in the know had learned
that, as on Christmas Eve most of the extra hands received with their pay envelope a week's
notice to quit, they, at least, never got back the half-hours lent. As for the permanent hands,
it would amount to a black mark secretly put against their names if they dared lay claim to
the time owing. Win, however, was blissfully ignorant of this, and though she was tired, the
arrangement seemed fair to her. As she got up from the table to spend fifteen minutes in the
rest room she was almost happy in the thought of having the sardine for a neighbour.

Two of the girls who had come up from the bargain square with her, on the return of Miss Stein
and their other seniors, looked after Win as she passed out of the restaurant.

"There goes Miss Thank-you-I-beg-your-pardon," said the young lady who had wondered if 2884
were a spy. "She's got a smile as if she was invited to tea with the Vanderbilts."

"By this time next week I bet she smiles the wrong side of her mouth if she puts on any airs
with Dora Stein."

"Hum-m, yeh. Unless what you think's so, and she's on the right side o' Father."

It was true, as the girls had warned the new hand, when six o'clock--closing time--came, you
"couldn't chase the dames out." The salespeople began to put things away, and some even ventured
to remind customers that the shop shut at six; but ladies who believed themselves possessed
of the kindest hearts on earth pleaded that they must have one more thing, only just one, to
complete their list for that day. Those who were too cross and tired to think about hearts
or anything else except their own nerves, made no excuses at all, but demanded what they wanted
or threatened a report to the floorwalker if a saleswoman were "disagreeable."

"Look at them!" snapped Miss Stein, maddened by a consignment of more blouses from the bankrupt
sale (which had brought upon Horrocks the gibes of the head buyer), blouses without sashes,
which not even Poiret could have turned into "Pavlovas." "Look at them, the fat, old, self-satisfied
lemons, with their hats and their dresses and their squeezed-in corsets and shoes, and even
their back hair, bought in sweat shops like ours! Pills, going to their homes to say their
prayers, and then, full o' dinner, to the meeting of the Anti-Sweats. I know em! Maybe they'll
do some o' the sweatin' in kingdom come!"

Already Win had learned that a "lemon" or a "pill" was a customer who made as much trouble
as possible for as small as possible a return; but it gave her a stab to hear Peter Rolls's
great department store called a "sweat shop." Again she saw the eyes. Was she never to get
rid of the memory of those hypocritical blue eyes?

Nobody thought of being ready for home until nearly ten o'clock; and long before that Miss
Stein's nerves felt as if they had been run, like threads, through the eyes of hot needles.
Again Win had helped her in the afternoon by placing blouses of congenial colours together
on the counters instead of letting them lie anyhow, as Miss Stein, in her recklessness, would
have done. But less than ever had the elder girl seen reason for thanking Miss Child when the
second instalment of "punk" goods was brought out of "reserve."

If the first lot had not gone off so soon they would not have been saddled with this, and so
2884 had, in Miss Stein's estimation, done nothing at the end of the day except "show herself
off" and make everybody work twice as hard as necessary. She would not tell Win how to put
things away, or let anybody else help her out.

"You gotta learn for yourself or you never will," she said sharply, all the more sharply because
Fred Thorpe, the floorwalker, happened to be within earshot.

"I don't care what he thinks of me!" she said fiercely to herself, knowing that Thorpe would
understand and disapprove her injustice to the new girl. But it was only half true that she
did not care.

She was longing desperately for somebody to love her; and though she could not in decency have
accepted, after the way she had treated him, she wished that Thorpe would ask her to have supper
with him that night. The Westlake pig, she knew, was going to Dorlon's for a pan roast with
Horrocks, for the creature had told all the girls who were sure to run with it to her, Dora
Stein. Thorpe would have been a faded flag to flaunt in the face of the enemy--a floorwalker,
to one who had mashed a department manager! Still it would have been comforting to know that
she still had attractions for some one, and at least she would have liked the chance to refuse
an invitation.

Thorpe, on his part, would joyfully have asked her, for he could not quite "unlove" the beautiful
face he had once adored, though he knew now exactly what a fierce spirit lived behind it. He
was well aware of his own weakness and was humble enough to confuse with it the kindness of
heart which permitted such treatment as he had received.

No girl, not even Dora Stein herself, would dare risk offending any other of the floorwalkers,
men able to break a saleswoman if they "got a down" on her. But Dora knew only too well that
he would not demean himself to take revenge on her or any one. And probably she believed that
he would not punish or even "call her down" for injustice to a newcomer.

Thorpe was miserable that night, for he had missed few incidents of the day in Dora's neighbourhood.
He recognized a "live wire" when he saw one, and he did see that 2884 had "stuff" in her. She
deserved to be praised, and encouragement was all that she needed to turn her into a valuable
saleswoman, one who might become a "real winner" some day. He could help her by speaking a
few kind words, but Miss Stein would think them spoken on purpose to spite her, and that wouldn't
do 2884 much good if she stayed in the blouse department. Also he could help her by mentioning
in the right quarter her generalship in the matter of the "Pavlovas" instead of letting Dora
take the credit. But if he did the girl any sort of justice he would be harming Miss Stein.

"I don't know what to do! I guess I shall have to leave the thing to Providence--and the devil
take the hindmost!" he thought gloomily.

It seemed to Win, as she went out at last, a week since she had come in by the same door. It
was like a play she had seen, where, in the second act, the people who had been young in the
first were middle-aged when the curtain next rose; and in the third they were old, all in the
course of a few hours. But a year or two seemed to drop from her shoulders when she caught
sight of Miss Kirk waiting for her in the street. Beside Miss Kirk, to the surprise of 2884,
towered the lion tamer.

"Well, I thought you'd never come!" was the greeting of Sadie. "But all's well that ends well.
And Mr. Teddy Lion here wants to take us some place for a little supper."

"That ain't no way to interdooce me to the lady, kid," said the big fellow. "She won't look
my way if you treat me light like that. My name's Earl Usher. Honest truth, 'tis, off the bills!
Y'will come along, won't you?"

"You're very kind," Win began in the conventional way that he had laughed at in the morning.
Then, afraid of being teased again, she said that she must go home.

"I don't know what my landlady will think," she excused herself. "I walked out early this morning,
never dreaming I should be gone until late at night."

"Well, she can't kill you," suggested Miss Kirk, "and, anyhow, you're leavin' the end of the
week. I think you'll be real mean if you won't come. I know what your reason is, and so does
he. He ain't nobody's fool. Do you s'pose I'm the sort would do anything myself, or ask you
to do anything, that wasn't all right? We ain't in the Four Hundred, nor yet in court circles,
I don't think. And this ain't London nor it ain't Boston. Thank Gawd it's little old N'York."

"But---" Win persisted, and stopped.

"I know what's got her goat," said Earl Usher. "It's that slush o' mine this morning about
not bein' a millionaire and my face needin' to be fed. I thought afterward 'that's no talk
for a gen'leman to use before a lady.' Well, I may not be a millionaire at present, but I can
see my way to feedin' our t'ree faces and not feel the pinch."

"Ain't you the fresh guy?" exclaimed Miss Kirk. "Our faces are our own, thank you just the
same, and this is a Dutch treat. You might 'a' knowed we'd stick that close to ettiket. I can
run to fifteen cents, as far as I'm concerned How is it with you, Miss Child?"

"I can run to that, too," said Win.

"Same here," announced the big young man; "though I'd set my heart on t'other kind o' treat.
Where shall it be? I suppose we mustn't think o' the Waldorf--what?"

"Huh!" snorted Miss Kirk, "not for mine, if I owned the mint! I bin to the Waldorf wunst, of
course. I went just out of curiosity to see how the swells et. Wunst is enough, like goin'
to the menagerie. Y'owe it to yer intelligence to see all the different forms of animal life
the good Lord has created, behavin' accordin' to their kind, and then come back to your own,
thankin' Gawd you're not as they are. We'll eat at Ginger Jim's, where we can lean our elbows
on the tables and get perfectly good oyster soup for ten cents a head!"

They walked for a while, Earl Usher insisting on the two girls taking his arms, one on either
side. By and by they got into a crosstown car, and it was when Win was being helped out by
the lion tamer that a motor dashed past. The existence of people who went about in splendid
gray motor cars seemed to Win so far away from her own just then that, standing in the street,
her hand in Earl Usher's, she gazed into the large, lighted window of the automobile as she
might have gazed through a powerful telescope at a scene of family life on Mars.

There were two girls in evening dress and two young men in the illuminated chariot. It flashed
by like a Leonid, but left a gay impression of flower-tinted velvet cloaks and ermine and waved
hair with a glitter of diamonds and oval white shirtfronts and black coats. Also a pair of
eyes seemed to look for the twentieth part of a second into Winifred's.

"I don't believe it was he!" she said to herself when the motor had gone by.

CHAPTER XII

BLUE PETER

Peter Rolls, Sr., and Peter junior were both unhappy in vastly different ways. One difference
was that Peter junior knew he was unhappy and suspected why. Peter senior had no idea that
what he suffered from was unhappiness. He thought that it was indigestion, and he supposed
that feeling as he felt was the normal state of men passing beyond middle age. When you were
growing old you could not expect to keep much zest or personal interest in life or to enjoy
things, so he had always been told; and dully, resignedly, he believed what "they" said.

If any one had told him that he was a miserable man he would have been angry, and also surprised.
Why the dickens should he be miserable? He considered himself one of the most successful men
in New York, and his greatest pleasure was in recalling his successes, step by step, from the
time before he got his foot on the first rung of the ladder all the way up to the top.

Often he lay awake at night pondering on those first days and first ambitions. If he began
to think of them when he went to bed it was fatal. He became so pleasantly excited, and the
past built itself up so realistically all about him, that he could not go to sleep for hours.
What a sensational "bed book" is to some tired brains, that was his past to the head of the
Hands. Besides, he had everything in the world that he or anybody else (it seemed to him) could
possibly want. Perhaps it was a little irritating when you could have all you wanted not to
know what to want. But, he consoled himself, that must be so with all rich people. The best
thing was not to think about it.

He was convinced that he loved mother as dearly as ever a husband had loved a wife. They were
uncomfortable together, but wretched apart. That was marriage. There was nothing more in it.

They hadn't much to say to each other. But you never saw husbands and wives chatting together
like love birds after the honeymoon. You wanted a bright-cheeked, laughing girl, and you got
her. If you were faithful to each other, and didn't have rows, it was an ideal match, especially
if there were children.

Peter Rolls was very fond of his children. When they were little they had been the joy of his
life; the thought of them had been the only one that warmed his heart and gave him almost superhuman
energy to take the future by the horns like a bull and force a ring through its bleeding nose
that it might be ready for them to ride when they grew up.

Now they were grown up, and they were riding; and it was natural that the fire of the heart
should have calmed. He was proud of the pair, very proud. Pete (no, he mustn't call him by
that name. Ena didn't like it, said it sounded common) Peter--or Petro, if he preferred--was
a gentleman and made a good show for every dollar that had been spent on him. Put him with
an Astor or a Livingston and you couldn't tell the difference!

Once, a long time ago, old Peter had dreamed of a young Peter succeeding him in the business;
but Ena had made him see what a foolish dream that was--foolish and inconsistent, too--because,
what was the good of slaving to satisfy your ambition, and then, when you reached the goal,
instead of profiting by what you'd got, ordering your heir down to the level you'd worked to
leave behind?

Peter senior had entirely come round to Ena's view, and instead of regretting that Peter junior
hadn't in him the making of a hard-boiled man of business who'll do anything to succeed, father
stopped Peter abruptly whenever he showed an inconvenient sign of interest in the Hands and
what went on under the glitter of their rings. Nor was Peter's interest of the right kind.
It was not what Peter senior called practical.

Ena, now! There was a girl to be proud of. Father was so proud that pride of his splendid daughter
had frozen out or covered with ashes the glow which used to fill his heart at the thought of
her. But pride was the right thing! That was what he had worked for: to make of his children
a man and woman to be proud of when the top stone was on his pile.

Ena was more than a lady. She was an orchid, a princess. She ruled father with her little finger--a
beautifully manicured, rose-and-white finger, such as he had hardly seen when he was young.
There was so much of himself in Ena that Peter yielded to her mandates as to the inarticulate
cry of his own soul translated into words. The princess in whose veins his blood ran must understand
what he ought to want better than he himself could understand.

She said: What was the fun of having money if you couldn't know all the best people everywhere,
and be of them as well as merely among them? She began saying this even before she came home
"for good" from school. It was a school for millionaires' daughters, and the daughters of other
millionaires had showed her the difference between her father and theirs, oil magnates and
steel and railway magnates, and magnates who magnated on their ancestors' fortunes made in
land or skins of animals.

Nothing really worth having--nothing really worth father's years of hard work--could come to
them as a family until Peter Rolls ceased to identify himself personally with the Hands, Ena
had pleaded, and at last the head of the establishment engaged an official "understudy" to
represent him every day in the gorgeously furnished office which had seemed to old Peter what
the body is to the soul.

Rolls senior and Henry Croft, the man he appointed as dictator, corresponded daily, by letter
and telephone, but Peter Rolls himself was not supposed to enter the great commercial village
he had brought together under one roof. Ena was able to say to any one rude enough to ask,
or to those she suspected of indiscreet curiosity: "Father never goes near the place. He's
tired of business, and, luckily, he doesn't need to bother."

She would not much have cared whether the statement were true or not if she were sure that
the carefully careless sounding words were believed. But it would have been distressing to
have any one say: "Ena Rolls pretends that her father doesn't work in the shop any more, but
I know for a fact that he goes every day." So it comforted her to feel sure that her arguments
had really impressed father and that he never did go to the Hands unless, perhaps twice a year
or so for important meetings. It pleased her that he had joined a rich club in New York which
had enough "swell" members to make it pleasant for her to remark casually, "Father belongs
to the Gotham."

When father went to New York in the evening, as he often did, not returning to Sea Gull Manor
till late, and sometimes staying away all night, he used to say as an excuse to mother or Ena:
"I'm going to the club." After a while it was taken for granted, and he made no excuse at all.
But if Ena had known the mystery of those late evenings she would have been struck with fear--the
fear which comes of finding out that those we think we know best are strangers to us.

Of all the sad millionaires of New York who pin together the pages of certain mysterious life
chapters not to be read by eyes at home, perhaps no other had a mystery like that of Peter
Rolls. It was now the one thing that he intensely enjoyed; but it was a guilty, furtive enjoyment
which made a nervous wreck of him and ruined a stomach once capable of salvation.

Peter junior had never been entirely happy since he left Yale at twenty-three. It was only
then that he began to look life in the face and see the freckles on its complexion The minute
he saw them on that countenance which should be so beautiful, he wanted to help in some way
to rub them off. To help--to help! That was the great thing.

He didn't care much for business, but he felt that, being Peter Rolls's only son, it was his
duty to care. He imagined father deeply hurt at the indifference of his two children to that
which had been his life--hurt, but hiding the wound with proud reserve. So Peter junior determined
to sacrifice himself. He offered to go into the shop, to begin at the bottom if father wished,
and in learning all there was to learn, gradually work up to a place where he could be a staff
to lean upon.

It was in the "library" that they had this talk--an immense and appalling room, all very new
oak panelling and very new, uniform sets of volumes bound in red leather and gold, with crests
and bookplates, bleakly glittering behind glass doors. Peter senior tried to kill time there,
because a library seemed to his daughter the right background for a father, and Peter junior,
who had saved mother's poor old furniture for his own rooms, found it singularly difficult
to open his heart between walls that smelled of money and newness. However, he did his best
to blunder out the offer of himself; while the chill gleam in his father's eyes (so remarkably
like that of the bookcase glass doors) made him feel, as he went on, that he must have begun
all wrong.

"So you don't trust your own father?" was the answer he got when he stopped, as one might be
stopped short by the sharp edge of a marble mantelpiece when trying to find the way across
a dark room.

"Don't--trust you?" stammered Peter, sure now that he was a fool not to understand, not to
have made his father understand.

"You think the old man's got past running his own business, and if you don't want your money
to go to the dogs you must look after it yourself."

"Good heavens, no!" Peter broke out. "You can't dream that any such thought entered my mind!
I--why, Father, I'd rather die than have you believe that of me."

"Prove I'm wrong, then," said the elder dryly, pulling, as was his habit, a thin, grizzled
beard with thin, sallow fingers. "You can do it easy enough."

"How? Only tell me."

"By turning your attention to other things, my boy. Leave me alone to manage what I know how
to manage. You let me do it my own way, without shoving in your oar, and don't you listen to
what any of your highbrow friends say about me and my methods behind my back."

"As if I would!"

"Well, I wasn't sure. You go with a set of raw boys who think they know better than their fathers
how to run creation; and now and then you blow off some of those soap-bubble ideas in your
conversation. I've been kind of hurt once in a while, though I didn't let it out. But now we're
on the subject I will say: if you've got faith in the old man, hands off the Hands!"

"That settles it, Father," returned Peter heavily. "I never meant to hinder, only to help if
I could. From now on the watchword is, 'hands off the Hands!'"

This was a promise, and he kept it scrupulously. But the steady fire in his heart was scattered
as a flaming log is broken into many embers by the clumsy stab of a poker. He had no longer
a settled aim in life. He saw no niche which he could fill, and felt that the world had no
particular use for the second Peter Rolls. The one thing he had longed for as a boy, which
did not now in his young manhood appear stale and unprofitable, was a journey round the world
and a glimpse of the East. When his father said uneasily: "Why don't you travel, my boy?" Peter
answered that perhaps it would be a good thing.

The subject was broached to mother, and mother did not object. She had learned long ago, when
she was first married to Peter, never to object to anything that he proposed. When she smiled
and agreed with every suggestion she was a dear little woman, and so she had spent her existence
in being a dear little woman until her hair turned white. With her sunny nature, it had not
needed a very great effort; but sometimes, since Peter had begun to grow up, he had dimly fancied
a look of wistfulness in her ever-young blue eyes--eyes of a girl gazing out from the round,
rosy-apple face of a middle-aged woman.

She was always the same in her ways and manner, if it could be called manner: comfortable and
comforting, contented with life as it was, happy in her children, and putting up gently with
her husband; but--when you had said good-bye to her you remembered the look which always changed
instantly into a smile when it met yours. You remembered, and seemed to see another woman hovering
wraithlike behind mother's plump figure, as she sat contentedly crocheting those endless strips
of trimming for towels and things--mother as she might have been if no dominating nature had
ringed hers in with an iron fence.

When Peter was up the White Nile, in elephant and lion land, he used suddenly, mysteriously,
to see an irrelevant vision of his mother just stretching out plump arms to say good-bye to
him in his own room which he had furnished with the mahogany odds and ends that had started
her bridal housekeeping. She had smiled and had not seemed to mind very much his going--not
half as much as a hen mother minds its duckling's first dash into water. And yet her eyes--There
are some things it hurts and at the same time warms your heart to think of at the other end
of the world.

Peter had gone up the White Nile to shoot big game; but when he met it face to face, on a social
equality, so to speak, he wondered how he could ever have harboured so monstrously caddish
a design. He found the animals he had thought he wanted to kill so much handsomer and more
important than himself that he felt like begging the alleged "game's" pardon for calling on
it without invitation in its country home (as if he'd been a book agent), and bowed himself
away with only a few photographs to remember it by. While Ena was working up conversations
to the point of mentioning "my brother, who is such a great shot, you know, and is shooting
big game in Africa," Peter's only shots were snapshots, and he was too stupidly conscientious
to atone for his weakness by obtaining elephant tusks and lion skins with coins instead of bullets.

He wished he had saved Egypt and its temples for his honeymoon, in case he should ever find
exactly the right girl, for the mystery and wonder made him sad because he had nobody to feel
it with him. It was the same in India and all the East, and there were thousands of thoughts
imprisoned in his breast (which he hardly understood and dared not let escape) by the time
he arrived in England to meet Ena.

They were still struggling in prison when he went on board the Monarchic, but there a light
shone fitfully through the keyhole of the cell. It was a beautiful light, almost beautiful
enough to be a light Peter had read and dreamed of which was said never to shine on land or
sea. Then, suddenly and surprisingly, it went out. The prison, full of thoughts, was left a
place of dark confusion.

This was the inner state of Peter Rolls, Jr., when he arrived at home after his long absence.
But outwardly he appeared to be much as usual, and was so nice to the Irish guests that Ena
was grateful, though never remorseful. Indeed, she had so much to think about that she almost
forgot her little act of diplomacy in eliminating an undesirable sister-in-law.

She was on tenterhooks lest Lord Raygan and his mother and sister should be finding the ménage
at Sea Gull Manor "all wrong," and laughing secretly at father and mother. If there had been
that fear about the dressmaker's model on top of the rest of her anxieties she would have broken
down with nervous prostration. But, thanks to her for saving him (without his knowledge), Peter
seemed to have got over his silliness and was able to stand by her like a brick.

Lady Raygan, a singularly young-looking, red-faced woman of boyish figure, and with stick-out
teeth, was a leading militant suffragette. When she embarked hastily for Queenstown she had
just been rescued by her son from the London police. At first she had been too seasick to care
that she was being carried past her home and that a series of lectures she had intended giving
would be delayed. Now, in America, she had determined to make the best of a bad bargain by
sending the fiery cross through the States.

She stayed in her room and jotted down notes. Also, she conscientiously tried to make Mrs.
Rolls a suffragette. About most other things she was absent-minded; therefore Ena did not waste
gray matter in worrying over the impression that Sea Gull Manor was making on Lady Raygan.

It was Rags and Eileen whose observing eyes and sense of humour had to be feared. Eileen, for
instance, had a little way of saying that anything she considered odd was "too endlessly quaint."
Things she admired were "melting." If only Ena had known enough about earls and their families
to be sure whether Lord Raygan and Eileen would, in their secret hearts, think the ways of
the Rollses endlessly quaint or melting, she might have been spared sleepless nights. Because
the difference between those two adjectives would mean the difference between ecstasy and despair
for her. Rags might be poor for an earl, even an Irish earl, but he was hardly the sort to
propose to a girl his sister could speak of as "endlessly quaint."

Twelve days after they had arrived at Sea Gull Manor, Eileen wrote a somewhat ungrammatical
letter to a rich cousin in Dublin who had once refused Rags, and in which she said:

DEAR POBBLES:

I wish you were here to pinch me. Then I would be sure whether I'm asleep or awake. You'll
know by the papers (s'pose poor old Rags is worth a paragraph; anyhow Mubs is, now she's turned
into a suff) how we got carried on in the Monarchic to New York. It won't be the fault of American
reporters if you've missed our news! They got at us on the dock. Mubs loved it. Rags didn't.

Well, if you know a thing about us, since we were swept past Queenstown by a giant wave that
carried us on its back all the way to America, you know we're staying with a family named Rolls.
Rags met Miss Rolls and her brother in London. And afterward they happened to be on board our
ship, so we chummed up, and Miss Rolls would give up her melting suite to poor half-dead Mubs
and me. What a beast the sea is! I don't know if I shall ever have the courage to go on the
disgusting old wet thing again. We came here to stay a fortnight, but it's almost that now,
and we couldn't be driven away with a stick.

We're having the time of our lives (I'm learning lots of creamy American slang), and the Rollses
are awfully kind. Ena is very nice, when she doesn't try to talk as if she were English, and
quite handsome, with fine eyes, though not so good as her brother's. And he--the brother, I
mean--is the dearest thing in the shape of a man you ever saw. Not that he's wonderfully handsome
or anything, but, as they say over here, he's just IT. I don't know what there is about him,
but--well, if I go on, I suppose you'll think I'm being silly.

I don't care; you were only a year older than I am now when you told Rags kindly to go to the
dickens. You said he cared only for your money, poor Rags! That wasn't true. But now (I know
you won't tell) Ena R. is going for him for all she's worth. Mubs doesn't notice anything about
women except their being suffs or not; and I'm supposed to be too young to twig what's going
on. I need hardly mention, however, that very little gets past yours truly. I shouldn't wonder
if Ena'd bring it off. Rags asks me sometimes in a sheep-faced sort of way what I think of
things here, and I would have a joyous laugh with him if it weren't for the brother.

Goodness gracious, but they're rich, these Rollses! I could make a pun about their name and
their money, but I won't, because it would be cheap, and nothing is cheap at Sea Gull Manor.
You can get a faint idea what the house and the view are like from the hand-painted sketch
at the top of this paper on the left of the fat gold crest. This stationery is in all the guests'
private sitting-rooms in case any one wants to make distant friends envious of their surroundings.
Mr. Rolls, Sr., told me he kept a tame artist painting these things at a salary of ten thousand
dollars a year, dinner and luncheon menus thrown in. Ena's idea. She wanted something original,
and what she wants goes! So says Mr. R.

He's a poor little, yellow shrimp of a man, with dead-black hair, where it isn't gray or coming
off, and the same kind of beard goats have. His eyes may have been nice when he was young,
but nothing like his son Peter's. Young Peter is altogether different from old Peter, and he
has blue eyes like the quaintest and most melting mother you ever saw.

She does nothing but crochet trimming for sheets and things, world without end, and if you
admire it she gives you some. But she was just born to be a mother, and even having her sit
crocheting in a room where you are makes you feel good. She has eyes as blue as bluebells,
and as young, an apple face with a smile that longs for something it's never known, and any
amount of smooth white hair, which she does in just the wrong way, pinched into tight braids.
The one thing she won't do for her daughter is to have a maid of her own, and Ena keeps apologizing
for it.

Mr. Rolls is a terrible dyspeptic, and the only things he can digest (he has told me and Rags
several times) are soft-shelled crabs, devilled, and plum pudding or cake. When he has a pain
he paces floors like a tiger, but does not roar.

I haven't met many Americans here yet because the Rollses somehow don't seem to know the right
ones, and Ena makes excuses for that, too. I wish she wouldn't. It gets on my nerves, and Rag's
nerves as well, I fancy, though he doesn't say so, and he's thinking a lot about whether she'll
do. Because I haven't met many others, I don't know whether or not the Rollses are just like
all American millionaires who don't come abroad, or unique. But I have an idea they're unique.

This is the most enormous house, built and named to please Ena, though it's no more a manor
than the Albert Hall is. I don't believe she knows what "manor" means. Every bedroom I've seen
(and I think I've been shown all, if I haven't lost count) has its own bathroom adjoining,
and a sitting-room as well. In each bathroom there are several different kinds of baths, and
a marble one you step down into, but it's bitterly cold on your spine--the only cold thing
in the house, which is so hot with a furnace that even the walls and floors feel warm, although
I keep my windows wide open day and night.

The pillow-cases and sheets are made of such rich, thick linen, and are so smooth and polished
that you slip down off your pillows with a crick in your neck, and the sheets slide off you,
just as if they were made of heavy silver, like lids of dishes. Perhaps the monograms and crests
drag them down. It's awful, but it's grand. And I should think there are at least twenty footmen
with--if you'll believe me--powdered hair!

