At first sight, perhaps, Nothing Matters (CASSELL) may sound to you a somewhat, shall I say,
transatlantic title for a book published in these days, when we are all learning how enormously
everything matters. But this emotion will only last till you have read Sir HERBERT BEERBOHM
TREE'S disarming little preface. Personally, it left me regretting only one thing in the volume
(or, to be more accurate, outside it), which was the design of its very unornamental wrapper--a
lapse, surely, from taste, for which it would probably be quite unfair to blame the writer
of what lies within. This is almost all of it excellent fooling, and includes a brace of longish
short-stories (rather in the fantastic style of brother MAX); some fugitive pieces that you
may recall as they flitted through the fields of journalism; with, for stiffening, a reprint
of the author's admirable lecture upon "The Importance of Humour in Tragedy." This is a title
that you may well take as a motto for the whole book. It will have, I think, a warm welcome
from Sir HERBERT'S many friends and admirers, even should it turn out to be the case that some
of his plots have been (in his own quaintly attractive phrase) "prophetically plagiarised"
by other writers. Certainly this welcome will not be lessened by the knowledge that all profits
from the sale of the volume are to go to support a cause that, to all who love the Stage, will
be far indeed from not mattering--the fund to supplement the incomes of the wives and families
of actors at the Front. You may regard it therefore as the lightest of comedies played, like
so many others, in the cause of charity, and put down your money with an approving conscience.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let no one whose heart has been touched beyond mere vicarious pride in the achievement of our
brothers-in-arms at the gate of Paris allow himself to miss the detailed narrative of HENRI
DUGARD in The Battle of Verdun (HUTCHINSON). A good translation by F. APPLEBY HOLT, rather
exceptional in these days of hurried conveyancing, does not detract from the vigour and movement
of the story. We, who only saw the long agony through the medium of the always inadequate and
discreet technicalities of the communiqués, could form no real impression of the kind of fighting
or of the results of each phase of it. The author has collected the accounts or reports, so
that the strokes and counter-strokes (for there was nothing passive in this siege) of the epic
combats round Douamont, Fort Vaux, the Woevre, Malancourt, Avocourt and the Mort Homme are
intelligibly reconstructed. Comment in the form of personal anecdotes of individual heroism
is added. Perhaps the most illuminating touch is in the letter of poor Feldwebel KARL GARTNER,
which was to have been despatched to his mother by a friend going on leave, so as to escape
the Censor's eye. It began in a mood of robustious confidence and ended (or rather was interrupted
by GARTNER'S capture) on the most despairing note. And this was seven months before the most
brilliant counter-attack in the history of the War slammed the door once for all in the face
of the enemy.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The scheme of utilising vacant spaces in London is being taken up
    enthusiastically in the provinces."--Evening Standard.

At the same time the scheme of utilising vacant spaces in the provinces is being welcomed with
similar enthusiasm in London.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Vigorous complaints against the proposal to establish an overhead
    electric system of tramways in Edinburgh were made this afternoon.

    Lord Strathclyde declared that the overhead wires proposal had
    electrified the citizens."--Scottish Paper.

There must be something seriously wrong with the insulation.