In all London at that moment there was not a more level headed man of his years. He was twenty-eight,
an expert mining engineer, and the successful pioneer of a new method of hauling ore. Even
in Western America, "God's own country," as it is held to be by those who live there, few men
"arrive" so early in life. Some, it is true, amass wealth by lucky speculation before they
are fitted by experience to earn the price of a suit of clothes. But they are of the freak
order. They are not to be classed with one who by hard work wrests a fortune out of the grim
Colorado granite. Spencer had been called on to endure long years of rebuff and scorn. Though
scoffed at by many who thought he was wrong, he persisted because he knew he was right.

Ofttimes Fate will test such a man almost to breaking point. Then she yields, and, being feminine,
her obduracy is the measure of her favors, for she will bestow on her dogged suitor all, and
more than all, that he desired.

The draft from Leadville, crammed so carelessly into a pocket when he followed the three to
the door, was a fair instance of this trick of hers. A tunnel, projected and constructed in
the teeth of ridicule and financial opposition, had linked up the underground workings of several
mines, and proved conclusively that it was far cheaper to bring minerals to the rail in that
manner than to sink expensive shafts, raise the ore to the top of a mountain, and cart it to
its old level in the valley.

Once the thing was indisputable, the young engineer found himself rich and famous. To increase
the feeders of the main bore, he drove another short gallery through a mining claim acquired
for a few dollars,--a claim deemed worthless owing to a geological fault that traversed its
whole length. That was Fate's opportunity. Doubtless she smiled mischievously when she gave
him a vein of rich quartz through which to quarry his way. The mere delving of the rock had
produced two thousand dollars' worth of ore, of which sum he took a moiety by agreement with
the company that purchased his rights.

People in Leadville soon discovered that Spencer was a bright man,--"yes, sir, a citizen of
whom the chief mining city of the Rocky Mountains has every reason to be proud,"--and the railway
magnate who had nearly ruined him by years of hostility buried the past grandiloquently with a mot.

"Charles K. Spencer can't be sidetracked," he said. "That K isn't in his name by accident.
Look at it,--a regular buffer of a letter! Tell you what, you may monkey with Charles; but
when you hit the K look out for trouble."

Whereupon the miners laughed, and said that the president was a mighty smart man too, and Spencer,
who knew he was a thief, but was unwilling to quarrel with him for the sake of the company,
thought that a six months' vacation in Europe would make for peace and general content.

He had no plans. He was free to wander whithersoever chance led him. Arriving in London from
Plymouth late on a Thursday evening, he took a bus-driver's holiday on Friday. Finding a tunnel
under the Thames in full progress near the hotel, he sought the resident engineer, spoke to
him in the lingua franca of the craft, and spent several dangerous and enjoyable hours in crawling
through all manner of uncomfortable passages bored by human worms beneath the bed of the river.

And this was Saturday, and here he was, at three o'clock in the afternoon, turning over in
his mind the best way of sending on an expensive trip abroad a girl who had not the remotest
notion of his existence. It was a whim, and a harmless one, and he excused it to his practical
mind by the reflection that he was entitled to one day of extravagance after seven years of
hard labor. For his own part, he was weary of mountains. He had wrought against one, frowning
and stubborn as any Alp, and had not desisted until he reached its very heart with a four thousand
foot lance. Switzerland was the last place in Europe he would visit. He wanted to see old cities
and dim cathedrals, to lounge in pleasant lands where rivers murmured past lush meadows. Though
an American born and bred, there was a tradition in his home that the Spencers were once people
of note on the border. When tired of London, he meant to go north, and ramble through Liddesdale
in search of family records. But the business presently on hand was to arrange that Swiss excursion
for "Helen," and he set about it with characteristic energy.

In the first instance, he noted her name and address on the back of the Leadville envelop.
Then he sought the manager.

"I guess you know Switzerland pretty well," he said, when a polite man was produced by a boy.

The assumption was well founded. In fact, the first really important looking object the manager
remembered seeing in this world was the giant Matterhorn, because his mother told him that
if he was a bad boy he would be carried off by the demons that dwelt on its summit.

"What sort of places are Evian-les-Bains and Champèry?" went on Spencer.

"Evian is a fashionable lakeside town. Champèry is in the hills behind it. When Evian becomes
too hot in August, one goes to Champèry to cool down."

"Are they anywhere near the Engadine?"

"Good gracious, no! They are as different as chalk and cheese."

"Is the Engadine the cheese? Does it take the biscuit?"

The manager laughed. Like all Londoners, he regarded every American as a humorist. "It all
depends," he said. "For my part, I think the Upper Engadine is far and away the most charming
section of Switzerland; but there are ladies of my acquaintance who would unhesitatingly vote
for Evian, and for a score of other places where there are promenades and casinos. Are you
thinking of making a tour there?"

"There's no telling where I may bring up when I cross the Channel," said Spencer. "I have heard
some talk of the two districts, and it occurred to me that you were just the man to give me
a few useful pointers."

"Well, the average tourist rushes from one valley to another, tramps over a pass each morning,
and spends the afternoon in a train or on board a lake steamer. But if I wanted a real rest,
and wished at the same time to be in a center from which pleasant walks, or stiff climbs for
that matter, could be obtained, I should go by the Engadine Express to St. Moritz, and drive
from there to the Maloja-Kulm, where there is an excellent hotel and usually a number of nice
people."

"English?"

"Yes, English and Americans. They select the best as a rule, you know."

"It sounds attractive," said Spencer.

"And it is, believe me. Don't forget the name, Maloja-Kulm. It is twelve miles from everywhere,
and practically consists of the one big hotel."

Spencer procured his hat, gloves, and stick, and called a cab. "Take me to 'The Firefly' office,"
he said.

"Beg pawdon, sir, but where's that?" asked the driver.

"It's up to you to find out."

"Then w'at is it, guv'nor? I've heerd of the 'Orse an' 'Ound, the Chicken's Friend, the Cat,
an' the Bee; but the Firefly leaves me thinkin'. Is it a noospaper?"

"Something of the sort."

"All right, sir. Jump in. We'll soon be on its track."

The hansom scampered off to Fleet-st. As the result of inquiries Spencer was deposited at the
entrance to a dingy court, the depths of which, he was assured, were illumined by "The Firefly."
There is nothing that so mystifies the citizen of the New World as the hole-and-corner aspect
of some of the business establishments of London. He soon learns, however, to differentiate
between the spidery dens where money is amassed and the soot laden tenements in which the struggle
for existence is keen. A comprehensive glance at the exterior of the premises occupied by "The
Firefly" at once explained to Spencer why the cabman did not know its whereabouts. Three small
rooms sufficed for its literary and commercial staff, and "To let" notices stared from several
windows in the same building.

"Appearances are deceptive ever," murmured he, as he scanned the legends on three doors in
a narrow lobby; "but I think I'm beginning to catch on to the limited extent of Miss Helen's
earnings from her scientific paragraphs."

He knocked at each door; but received no answer. Then, having sharp ears, he tried the handle
of one marked "Private." It yielded, and he entered, to be accosted angrily by a pallid, elderly,
bewhiskered man, standing in front of a much littered table.

"Confound it, sir!" came the growl, "don't you know it is Saturday afternoon? And what do you
mean by coming in unannounced?"

"Guess you're the editor?" said Spencer.

"What if I am?"

"I've just happened along to have a few quiet words with you. If there's no callers Saturdays,
why, that's exactly what I want, and I came right in because you didn't answer my knock."

"I tell you I'm not supposed to be here."

"Then you shouldn't draw corks while anybody is damaging the paint outside."

Spencer smiled so agreeably that the editor of "The Firefly" softened. At first, he had taken
his visitor for an unpaid contributor; but the American accent banished this phantom of the
imagination. He continued to pour into a tumbler the contents of a bottle of beer.

"Well," he said, "now that you are here, what can I do for you, Mr.----"

"Spencer--Charles K. Spencer."

Instantly it struck the younger man that little more than an hour had elapsed since he gave
his name to the letter clerk in the hotel. The singularity of his proceedings during that hour
was thereby brought home to him. He knew nothing of newspapers, daily or weekly; but commonsense
suggested that "The Firefly's" radiance was not over-powering. His native shrewdness advised
caution, though he felt sure that he could, in homely phrase, twist this faded journalist round
his little finger.

"Before I open the ball," he said, "may I see a copy of your magazine?"

Meanwhile the other was trying to sum him up. He came to the conclusion that his visitor meant
to introduce some new advertising scheme, and, as "The Firefly" was sorely in need of advertisements,
he decided to listen.

"Here is last week's issue," he said, handing to Spencer a small sixteen-page publication.
The American glanced through it rapidly, while the editor sampled the beer.

"I see," said Spencer, after he had found a column signed "H. W.," which consisted of paragraphs
translated from a German article on airships,--"I see that 'The Firefly' scintillates around
the Tree of Knowledge."

The editor relaxed sufficiently to smile. "That is a good description of its weekly flights,"
he said.

"You don't use many cuts?"

"N-no. They are expensive and hard to obtain for such subjects as we favor."

"Don't you think it would be a good notion to brighten it up a bit--put in something lively,
and more in keeping with the name?"

"I have no opening for new matter, if that is what you mean," and the editor stiffened again.

"But you have the say-so as to the contents, I suppose?"

"Oh, yes. The selection rests with me."

"Good. I'm sort of interested in a young lady, Miss Helen Wynton by name. She lives in Warburton
Gardens, and does work for you occasionally. Now, I propose to send her on a month's trip to
Switzerland, where she will represent 'The Firefly.' You must get her to turn out a couple
of pages of readable stuff each week, which you will have illustrated by a smart artist at
a cost of say, twenty pounds an article for drawings and blocks. I pay all expenses, she gets
the trip, and you secure some good copy for nothing. Is it a deal?"

The editor sat down suddenly and combed his whiskers with nervous fingers. He was a weak man,
and a too liberal beer diet was not good for him.

"Are you in earnest, Mr. Spencer?" he queried in a bewildered way.

"Dead in earnest. You write the necessary letter to Miss Wynton while I am here, and I hand
you the first twenty in notes. You are to tell her to call Monday noon at any bank you may
select, and she will be given her tickets and a hundred pounds. When I am certain that she
has started I undertake to pay you a further sum of sixty pounds. I make only two conditions.
You must guarantee to star her work, as it should help her some, and my identity must not be
disclosed to her under any circumstances. In a word, she must regard herself as the accredited
correspondent of 'The Firefly.' If she appears to be a trifle rattled by your generosity in
the matter of terms, you must try and look as if you did that sort of thing occasionally and
would like to do it often."

The editor pushed his chair away from the table. He seemed to require more air. "Again I must
ask you if you actually mean what you say?" he gasped.

Spencer opened a pocketbook and counted four five-pound notes out of a goodly bundle. "It is
all here in neat copperplate," he said, placing the notes on the table. "Maybe you haven't
caught on to the root idea of the proposition," he continued, seeing that the other man was
staring at him blankly. "I want Miss Wynton to have a real good time. I also want to lift her
up a few rungs of the journalistic ladder. But she is sensitive, and would resent patronage;
so I must not figure in the affair at all. I have no other motive at the back of my head. I'm
putting up two hundred pounds out of sheer philanthropy. Will you help?"

"There are points about this amazing proposal that require elucidation," said the editor slowly.
"Travel articles might possibly come within the scope of 'The Firefly'; but I am aware that
Miss Wynton is what might be termed an exceedingly attractive young lady. For instance, you
wouldn't be philanthropic on my account."

"You never can tell. It all depends how your case appealed to me. But if you are hinting that
I intend to use my scheme for the purpose of winning Miss Wynton's favorable regard, I must
say that she strikes me as the kind of girl who would think she had been swindled if she learned
the truth. In any event, I may never see her again, and it is certainly not my design to follow
her to Switzerland. I don't kick at your questions. You're old enough to be her father, and
mine, for that matter. Go ahead. This is Saturday afternoon, you know, and there's no business
stirring."

Spencer had to cover the ground a second time before everything was made clear. At last the
fateful letter was written. He promised to call on Monday and learn how the project fared.
Then he relieved the cabman's anxiety, as the alley possessed a second exit, and was driven
to the Wellington Theater, where he secured a stall for that night's performance of the Chinese
musical comedy in which Miss Millicent Jaques played the part of a British Admiral's daughter.

While Spencer was watching Helen's hostess cutting capers in a Mandarin's palace, Helen herself
was reading, over and over again, a most wonderful letter that had fallen from her sky. It
had all the appearance of any ordinary missive. The King's face on a penny stamp, or so much
of it as was left uninjured by a postal smudge, looked familiar enough, and both envelop and
paper resembled those which had brought her other communications from "The Firefly." But the
text was magic, rank necromancy. No wizard who ever dealt in black letter treatises could have
devised a more convincing proof of his occult powers than this straightforward offer made by
the editor of "The Firefly." Four articles of five thousand words each,--tickets and 100 pounds
awaiting her at a bank,--go to the Maloja-Kulm Hotel; leave London at the earliest possible
date; please send photographs and suggestions for black-and-white illustrations of mountaineering
and society! What could it possibly mean?

At the third reading Helen began to convince herself that this rare stroke of luck was really
hers. The concluding paragraph shed light on "The Firefly's" extraordinary outburst.

"As this commission heralds a new departure for the paper, I have to ask you to be good enough
not to make known the object of your journey. In fact, it will be as well if you do not state
your whereabouts to any persons other than your near relatives. Of course, all need for secrecy
ceases with the appearance of your first article; but by that time you will practically be
on your way home again. I am anxious to impress on you the importance of this instruction."

Helen found herein the germ of understanding. "The Firefly" meant to boom itself on its Swiss
correspondence; but even that darksome piece of journalistic enterprise did not explain the
princely munificence of the hundred pounds. At last, when she calmed down sufficiently to be
capable of connected thought, she saw that "mountaineering" implied the hire of guides, and
that "society" meant frocks. Of course it was intended that she should spend the whole of the
money, and thus give "The Firefly" a fair return for its outlay. And a rapid calculation revealed
the dazzling fact that after setting aside the fabulous sum of two pounds a day for expenses
she still had forty pounds left wherewith to replenish her scanty stock of dresses.

Believing that at any instant the letter might dissolve into a curt request to keep her scientific
jottings strictly within the limits of a column, Helen sat with it lying open on her lap, and
searched the pages of a tattered guidebook for particulars of the Upper Engadine. She had read
every line before; but the words now seemed to live. St. Moritz, Pontresina, Sils-Maria, Silvaplana,--they
ceased to be mere names,--they became actualities. The Julier Pass, the Septimer, the Forno
Glacier, the Diavolezza Route, and the rest of the stately panorama of snow capped peaks, blue
lakes, and narrow valleys,--valleys which began with picturesque chalets, dun colored cattle,
and herb laden pastures, and ended in the yawning mouths of ice rivers whence issued the milky
white streams that dashed through the lower gorges,--they passed before her eyes as she read
till she was dazzled by their glories.

What a day dream to one who dwelt in smoky London year in and year out! What an experience
to look forward to! What memories to treasure! Nor was she blind to the effect of the undertaking
on her future. Though "The Firefly" was not an important paper, though its editor was of a
half-forgotten day and generation, she would now have good work to show when asked what she
had done. She was not enamored of beetles. Even the classifying of them was monotonous, and
she had striven bravely to push her way through the throng of would-be writers that besieged
the doors of every popular periodical in London. It was a heartbreaking struggle. The same
post that gave her this epoch marking letter had brought back two stories with the stereotyped
expression of editorial regret.

"Now," thought Helen, when her glance fell on the bulky envelops, "my name will at least become
known. And editors very much resemble the public they cater for. If a writer achieves success,
they all want him. I have often marveled how any author got his first chance. Now I know. It
comes this way, like a flash of lightning from a summer sky."

It was only fit and proper that she should magnify her first real commission. No veteran soldier
ever donned a field marshal's uniform with the same zest that he displayed when his subaltern's
outfit came from the tailor. So Helen glowed with that serious enthusiasm which is the soul
of genius, for without it life becomes flat and gray, and she passed many anxious, half-doubting
hours until a courteous bank official handed her a packet at the appointed time on Monday,
and gave her a receipt to sign, and asked her how she would take her hundred pounds--did she
want it all in notes or some in gold?

She was so unnerved by this sudden confirmation of her good fortune that she stammered confusedly,
"I--really--don't know."

"Well, it would be rather heavy in gold," came the smiling comment. "This money, I understand,
is paid to you for some journalistic enterprise that will take you abroad. May I suggest that
you should carry, say, thirty pounds in notes and ten in gold, and allow me to give you the
balance in the form of circular notes, which are payable only under your signature?"

"Yes," said Helen, rosy red at her own awkwardness, "that will be very nice."

The official pushed across the counter some banknotes and sovereigns, and summoned a commissionaire
to usher her into the waiting room till he had prepared the circular notes. The respite was
a blessing. It gave Helen time to recover her self possession. She opened the packet and found
therein coupons for the journey to and from St. Moritz, together with a letter from the sleeping
car company, from which she gathered that a berth on the Engadine Express was provisionally
reserved in her name for the following Thursday, but any change to a later date must be made
forthwith, as the holiday pressure was beginning. It was advisable too, she was reminded, that
she should secure her return berth before leaving London.

Each moment the reality of the tour became more patent. She might feel herself bewitched; but
pounds sterling and railway tickets were tangible things, and not to be explained away by any
fantasy. By the time her additional wealth was ready she was better fitted to guard it. She
hurried away quite unconscious of the admiring eyes that were raised from dockets and ledgers
behind the grille. She made for the court in which "The Firefly" had its abode. The squalor
of the passage, the poverty stricken aspect of the stairs,--items which had prepared her on
other occasions for the starvation rate of pay offered for her work,--now passed unheeded.
This affectation of scanty means was humorous. Obviously, some millionaire had secured what
the newspapers called "a controlling interest" in "The Firefly."

She sought Mackenzie, the editor, and he received her with a manifest reluctance to waste his
precious time over details that was almost as convincing as the money and vouchers she carried.

"Yes, Thursday will suit admirably," he said in reply to her breathless questions. "You will
reach Maloja on Friday evening, and if you post the first article that day week it will arrive
in good time for the next number. As for the style and tone, I leave those considerations entirely
to you. So long as the matter is bright and readable, that is all I want. I put my requirements
clearly in my letter. Follow that, and you cannot make any mistake."

Helen little realized how precise were the instructions given two hours earlier to the editor,
the bank clerk, and the sleeping car company. Mackenzie's curt acceptance of her mission brought
a wondering cry to her lips.

"I am naturally overjoyed at my selection for this work," she said. "May I ask how you came
to think of me?"

"Oh, it is hard to say how these things are determined," he answered. "We liked your crisp
way of putting dull facts, I suppose, and thought that a young lady's impressions of life in
an Anglo-Swiss summer community would be fresher and more attractive than a man's. That is
all. I hope you will enjoy your experiences."

"But, please, I want to thank you----"

"Not a word! Business is business, you know. If a thing is worth doing, it must be done well.
Good-by!"

