"What a perfectly ridiculous question," she managed to reply.

He looked at her keenly.

"Because, if you have--well, you might be perfectly innocent in the matter and still get in
bad," he continued evenly. "I'd like to put a bug in your ear."

She bent over Jack Junior, striving to inject an amused note into her reply.

"Don't be so absurd, Charlie."

"Oh, well, I suppose it is. Only, darn it, I've seen him look at you in a way--Pouf! I was
going to tell you something. Maybe Jack has--only he's such a close-mouthed beggar. I'm not
very anxious to peddle things." Benton turned again. "I guess you don't need any coaching from
me, anyhow."

He walked out. Stella stared after him, her eyes blazing, hands clenched into hard-knuckled
little fists. She could have struck him.

And still she wondered over and over again, burning with a consuming fire to know what that
"something" was which he had to tell. All the slumbering devils of a stifled passion awoke
to rend her, to make her rage against the coil in which she was involved. She despised herself
for the weakness of unwise loving, even while she ached to sweep away the barriers that stood
between her and love. Mingled with that there whispered an intuition of disaster to come, of
destiny shaping to peculiar ends. In Monohan's establishing himself on Roaring Lake she sensed
something more than an industrial shift. In his continued presence there she saw incalculable
sources of trouble. She stood leaning over the bed rail, staring wistfully at her boy for a
few minutes. When she faced the mirror in her room, she was startled at the look in her eyes,
the nervous twitch of her lips. There was a physical ache in her breast.

"You're a fool, a fool," she whispered to her image. "Where's your will, Stella Fyfe? Borrow
a little of your husband's backbone. Presently--presently it won't matter."

One can club a too assertive ego into insensibility. A man may smile and smile and be a villain
still, as the old saying has it, and so may a woman smile and smile when her heart is tortured,
when every nerve in her is strained to the snapping point. Stella went back to the living room
and sang for them until it was time to go to bed.

The Aldens went first, then Charlie. Stella left her door ajar. An hour afterward, when Fyfe
came down the hall, she rose. It had been her purpose to call him in, to ask him to explain
that which her brother had hinted he could explain, what prior antagonism lay between him and
Monohan, what that "something" about Monohan was which differentiated him from other men where
she was concerned. Instead she shut the door, slid the bolt home, and huddled in a chair with
her face in her hands.

She could not discuss Monohan with him, with any one. Why should she ask? she told herself.
It was a closed book, a balanced account. One does not revive dead issues.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE OPENING GUN

The month of November slid day by day into the limbo of the past. The rains washed the land
unceasingly. Gray veilings of mist and cloud draped the mountain slopes. As drab a shade colored
Stella Fyfe's daily outlook. She was alone a great deal. Even when they were together, she
and her husband, words did not come easily between them. He was away a great deal, seeking,
she knew, the old panacea of work, hard, unremitting work, to abate the ills of his spirit.
She envied him that outlet. Work for her there was none. The two Chinamen and Martha the nurse
left her no tasks. She could not read, for all their great store of books and magazines; the
printed page would lie idle in her lap, and her gaze would wander off into vacancy, into that
thought-world where her spirit wandered in distress. The Abbeys were long gone; her brother
hard at his logging. There were no neighbors and no news. The savor was gone out of everything.
The only bright spot in her days was Jack Junior, now toddling precociously on his sturdy legs,
a dozen steps at a time, crowing victoriously when he negotiated the passage from chair to chair.

From the broad east windows of their house she saw all the traffic that came and went on the
upper reaches of Roaring Lake, Siwashes in dugouts and fishing boats, hunters, prospectors.
But more than any other she saw the craft of her husband and Monohan, the powerful, black-hulled
Panther, the smaller, daintier Waterbug.

There was a big gasoline workboat, gray with a yellow funnel, that she knew was Monohan's.
And this craft bore past there often, inching its downward way with swifters of logs, driving
fast up-lake without a tow. Monohan had abandoned work on the old Abbey-Monohan logging-grounds.
The camps and the bungalow lay deserted, given over to a solitary watchman. The lake folk had
chattered at this proceeding, and the chatter had come to Stella's ears. He had put in two
camps at the lake head, so she heard indirectly: one on the lake shore, one on the Tyee River,
a little above the mouth. He had sixty men in each camp, and he was getting the name of a driver.
Three miles above his Tyee camp, she knew, lay the camp her husband had put in during the early
summer to cut a heavy limit of cedar. Fyfe had only a small crew there.

She wondered a little why he spent so much time there, when he had seventy-odd men working
near home. But of course he had an able lieutenant in Lefty Howe. And she could guess why Jack
Fyfe kept away. She was sorry for him--and for herself. But being sorry--a mere semi-neutral
state of mind--did not help matters, she told herself gloomily.

Lefty Howe's wife was at the camp now, on one of her occasional visits. Howe was going across
the lake one afternoon to see a Siwash whom he had engaged to catch and smoke a winter's supply
of salmon for the camps. Mrs. Howe told Stella, and on impulse Stella bundled Jack Junior into
warm clothing and went with them for the ride.

Halfway across the six-mile span she happened to look back, and a new mark upon the western
shore caught her eye. She found a glass and leveled it on the spot. Two or three buildings,
typical logging-camp shacks of split cedar, rose back from the beach. Behind these again the
beginnings of a cut had eaten a hole in the forest,--a slashing different from the ordinary
logging slash, for it ran narrowly, straight back through the timber; whereas the first thing
a logger does is to cut all the merchantable timber he can reach on his limit without moving
his donkey from the water. It was not more than two miles from their house.

"What new camp is that?" she asked Howe.

"Monohan's," he answered casually.

"I thought Jack owned all the shore timber to Medicine Point?" she said.

Howe shook his head.

"Uh-uh. Well, he does too, all but where that camp is. Monohan's got a freak limit in there.
It's half a mile wide and two miles straight back from the beach. Lays between our holdin's
like the ham in a sandwich. Only," he added thoughtfully, "it's a blame thin piece uh ham.
About the poorest timber in a long stretch. I dunno why the Sam Hill he's cuttin' it. But then
he's doin' a lot uh things no practical logger would do."

Stella laid down the glasses. It was nothing to her, she told herself. She had seen Monohan
only once since the day Fyfe choked him, and then only to exchange the barest civilities--and
to feel her heart flutter at the message his eyes telegraphed.

When she returned from the launch trip, Fyfe was home, and Charlie Benton with him. She crossed
the heavy rugs on the living room floor noiselessly in her overshoes, carrying Jack Junior
asleep in her arms. And so in passing the door of Fyfe's den, she heard her brother say:

"But, good Lord, you don't suppose he'll be sap-head enough to try such fool stunts as that?
He couldn't make it stick, and he brings himself within the law first crack; and the most he
could do would be to annoy you."

"You underestimate Monohan," Fyfe returned. "He'll play safe, personally, so far as the law
goes. He's foxy. I advise you to sell if the offer comes again. If you make any more breaks
at him, he'll figure some way to get you. It isn't your fight, you know. You unfortunately
happen to be in the road."

"Damned if I do," Benton swore. "I'm all in the clear. There's no way he can get me, and I'll
tell him what I think of him again if he gives me half a chance. I never liked him, anyhow.
Why should I sell when I'm just getting in real good shape to take that timber out myself?
Why, I can make a hundred thousand dollars in the next five years on that block of timber.
Besides, without being a sentimental sort of beggar, I don't lose sight of the fact that you
helped pull me out of a hole when I sure needed a pull. And I don't like his high-handed style.
No, if it comes to a showdown, I'm with you, Jack, as far as I can go. What the hell can he do?"

"Nothing--that I can see." Fyfe laughed unpleasantly. "But he'll try. He has dollars to our
cents. He could throw everything he's got on Roaring Lake into the discard and still have forty
thousand a year fixed income. Sabe? Money does more than talk in this country. I think I'll
pull that camp off the Tyee."

"Well, maybe," Benton said. "I'm not sure--"

Stella passed on. She wanted to hear, but it went against her grain to eavesdrop. Her pause
had been purely involuntary. When she became conscious that she was eagerly drinking in each
word, she hurried by.

Her mind was one urgent question mark while she laid the sleeping youngster in his bed and
removed her heavy clothes. What sort of hostilities did Monohan threaten? Had he let a hopeless
love turn to the acid of hate for the man who nominally possessed her? Stella could scarcely
credit that. It was too much at variance with her idealistic conception of the man. He would
never have recourse to such littleness. Still, the biting contempt in Fyfe's voice when he
said to Benton: "You underestimate Monohan. He'll play safe ... he's foxy." That stung her
to the quick. That was not said for her benefit; it was Fyfe's profound conviction. Based on
what? He did not form judgments on momentary impulse. She recalled that only in the most indirect
way had he ever passed criticism on Monohan, and then it lay mostly in a tone, suggested more
than spoken. Yet he knew Monohan, had known him for years. They had clashed long before she
was a factor in their lives.

When she went into the big room, Benton and Fyfe were gone outdoors. She glanced into Fyfe's
den. It was empty, but a big blue-print unrolled on the table where the two had been seated
caught her eye. She bent over it, drawn by the lettered squares along the wavy shore line and
the marked waters of creeks she knew.

She had never before possessed a comprehensive idea of the various timber holdings along the
west shore of Roaring Lake, since it had not been a matter of particular interest to her. She
was not sure why it now became a matter of interest to her, unless it was an impression that
over these squares and oblongs which stood for thousands upon thousands of merchantable logs
there was already shaping a struggle, a clash of iron wills and determined purposes directly
involving, perhaps arising because of her.

She studied the blue-print closely. Its five feet of length embraced all the west shore of
the lake, from the outflowing of Roaring River to the incoming Tyee at the head. Each camp
was lettered in with pencil. But her attention focussed chiefly on the timber limits ranging
north and south from their home, and she noted two details: that while the limits marked A-M
Co. were impartially distributed from Cottonwood north, the squares marked J.H. Fyfe lay in
a solid block about Cougar Bay,--save for that long tongue of a limit where she had that day
noted the new camp. That thrust like the haft of a spear into the heart of Fyfe's timberland.

There was the Abbey-Monohan cottage, the three limits her brother controlled lying up against
Fyfe's southern boundary. Up around the mouth of the Tyee spread the vast checkerboard of Abbey-Monohan
limits, and beyond that, on the eastern bank of the river, a single block,--Fyfe's cedar limit,--the
camp he thought he would close down.

Why? Immediately the query shaped in her mind. Monohan was concentrating his men and machinery
at the lake head. Fyfe proposed to shut down a camp but well-established; established because
cedar was climbing in price, an empty market clamoring for cedar logs. Why?

Was there aught of significance in that new camp of Monohan's so near by; that sudden activity
on ground that bisected her husband's property? A freak limit of timber so poor that Lefty
Howe said it could only be logged at a loss.

She sighed and went out to give dinner orders to Sam Foo. If she could only go to her husband
and talk as they had been able to talk things over at first. But there had grown up between
them a deadly restraint. She supposed that was inevitable. Both chafed under conditions they
could not change or would not for stubbornness and pride.

It made a deep impression on her, all these successive, disassociated finger posts, pointing
one and all to things under the surface, to motives and potentialities she had not glimpsed
before and could only guess at now.

Fyfe and Benton came to dinner more or less preoccupied, an odd mood for Charlie Benton. Afterwards
they went into session behind the closed door of Fyfe's den. An hour or so later Benton went
home. While she listened to the soft chuff-a-chuff-a-chuff of the Chickamin dying away in the
distance, Fyfe came in and slumped down in a chair before the fire where a big fir stick crackled.
He sat there silent, a half-smoked cigar clamped in one corner of his mouth, the lines of his
square jaw in profile, determined, rigid. Stella eyed him covertly. There were times, in those
moods of concentration, when sheer brute power seemed his most salient characteristic. Each
bulging curve of his thick upper arm, his neck rising like a pillar from massive shoulders,
indicated his power. Yet so well-proportioned was he that the size and strength of him was
masked by the symmetry of his body, just as the deliberate immobility of his face screened
the play of his feelings. Often Stella found herself staring at him, fruitlessly wondering
what manner of thought and feeling that repression overlaid. Sometimes a tricksy, half-provoked
desire to break through the barricade of his stoicism tempted her. She told herself that she
ought to be thankful for his aloofness, his acquiescence in things as they stood. Yet there
were times when she would almost have welcomed an outburst, a storm, anything rather than that
deadly chill, enduring day after day. He seldom spoke to her now except of most matter-of-fact
things. He played his part like a gentleman before others, but alone with her he withdrew into
his shell.

Stella was sitting back in the shadow, still studying him, measuring him in spite of herself
by the Monohan yardstick. There wasn't much basis for comparison. It wasn't a question of comparison;
the two men stood apart, distinctive, in every attribute. The qualities in Fyfe that she understood
and appreciated, she beheld glorified in Monohan. Yet it was not, after all, a question of
qualities. It was something more subtle, something of the heart which defied logical analysis.

Fyfe had never been able to set her pulse dancing. She had never craved physical nearness to
him, so that she ached with the poignancy of that craving. She had been passively contented
with him, that was all. And Monohan had swept across her horizon like a flame. Why couldn't
Jack Fyfe have inspired in her that headlong sort of passion? She smiled hopelessly. The tears
were very close to her eyes. She loved Monohan; Monohan loved her. Fyfe loved her in his deliberate,
repressed fashion and possessed her, according to the matrimonial design. And although now
his possession was a hollow mockery, he would never give her up--not to Walter Monohan. She
had that fatalistic conviction.

How would it end in the long run?

She leaned forward to speak. Words quivered on her lips. But as she struggled to shape them
to utterance, the blast of a boat whistle came screaming up from the water, near and shrill
and imperative.

Fyfe came out of his chair like a shot. He landed poised on his feet, lips drawn apart, hands
clenched. He held that pose for an instant, then relaxed, his breath coming with a quick sigh.

Stella stared at him. Nerves! She knew the symptoms too well. Nerves at terrible tension in
that big, splendid body. A slight quiver seemed to run over him. Then he was erect and calmly
himself again, standing in a listening attitude.

"That's the Panther?" he said. "Pulling in to the Waterbug's landing. Did I startle you when
I bounced up like a cougar, Stella?" he asked, with a wry smile. "I guess I was half asleep.
That whistle jolted me."

Stella glanced out the shaded window.

"Some one's coming up from the float with a lantern," she said. "Is there--is there likely
to be anything wrong, Jack?"

"Anything wrong?" He shot a quick glance at her. Then casually: "Not that I know of."

The bobbing lantern came up the path through the lawn. Footsteps crunched on the gravel.

"I'll go see what he wants," Fyfe remarked, "Calked boots won't be good for the porch floor."

She followed him.

"Stay in. It's cold." He stopped in the doorway.

"No. I'm coming," she persisted.

They met the lantern bearer at the foot of the steps.

"Well, Thorsen?" Fyfe shot at him. There was an unusual note of sharpness in his voice, an
irritated expectation.

Stella saw that it was the skipper of the Panther, a big and burly Dane. He raised the lantern
a little. The dim light on his face showed it bruised and swollen. Fyfe grunted.

"Our boom is hung up," he said plaintively. "They've blocked the river. I got licked for arguin'
the point."

"How's it blocked?" Fyfe asked.

"Two swifters uh logs strung across the channel. They're drivin' piles in front. An' three
donkeys buntin' logs in behind."

"Swift work. There wasn't a sign of a move when I left this morning," Fyfe commented drily.
"Well, take the Panther around to the inner landing. I'll be there."

"What's struck that feller Monohan?" the Dane sputtered angrily. "Has he got any license to
close the Tyee? He says he has--an' backs his argument strong, believe me. Maybe you can handle
him. I couldn't. Next time I'll have a cant-hook handy. By jingo, you gimme my pick uh Lefty's
crew, Jack, an' I'll bring that cedar out."

"Take the Panther 'round," Fyfe replied. "We'll see."

Thorsen turned back down the slope. In a minute the thrum of the boat's exhaust arose as she
got under way.

"Come on in. You'll get cold standing here," Fyfe said to Stella.

She followed him back into the living room. He sat on the arm of a big leather chair, rolling
the dead cigar thoughtfully between his lips, little creases gathering between his eyes.

"I'm going up the lake," he said at last, getting up abruptly.

"What's the matter, Jack?" she asked. "Why, has trouble started up there?"

"Part of the logging game," he answered indifferently. "Don't amount to much."

"But Thorsen has been fighting. His face was terrible. And I've heard you say he was one of
the most peaceable men alive. Is it--is Monohan--"

"We won't discuss Monohan," Fyfe said curtly. "Anyway, there's no danger of him getting hurt."

He went into his den and came out with hat and coat on. At the door he paused a moment.

"Don't worry," he said kindly. "Nothing's going to happen."

But she stood looking out the window after he left, uneasy with a prescience of trouble. She
watched with a feverish interest the stir that presently arose about the bunkhouses. That summer
a wide space had been cleared between bungalow and camp. She could see moving lanterns, and
even now and then hear the voices of men calling to each other. Once the Panther's dazzling
eye of a searchlight swung across the landing, and its beam picked out a file of men carrying
their blankets toward the boat. Shortly after that the tender rounded the point. Close behind
her went the Waterbug, and both boats swarmed with men.

Stella looked and listened until there was but a faint thrum far up the lake. Then she went
to bed, but not to sleep. What ugly passions were loosed at the lake head she did not know.
But on the face of it she could not avoid wondering if Monohan had deliberately set out to
cross and harass Jack Fyfe. Because of her? That was the question which had hovered on her
lips that evening, one she had not brought herself to ask. Because of her, or because of some
enmity that far preceded her? She had thought him big enough to do as she had done, as Fyfe
was tacitly doing,--make the best of a grievous matter.

But if he had allowed his passions to dictate reprisals, she trembled for the outcome. Fyfe
was not a man to sit quiet under either affront or injury. He would fight with double rancor
if Monohan were his adversary.

"If anything happens up there, I'll hate myself," she whispered, when the ceaseless turning
of her mind had become almost unendurable. "I was a silly, weak fool to ever let Walter Monohan
know I cared. And I'll hate him too if he makes me a bone of contention. I elected to play
the game the only decent way there is to play it. So did he. Why can't he abide by that?"

Noon of the next day saw the Waterbug heave to a quarter mile abeam of Cougar Point to let
off a lone figure in her dinghy, and then bore on, driving straight and fast for Roaring Springs.
Stella flew to the landing. Mother Howe came puffing at her heels.

"Land's sake, I been worried to death," the older woman breathed. "When men git to quarrellin'
about timber, you never can tell where they'll stop, Mrs. Jack. I've knowed some wild times
in the woods in the past."

The man in the dink was Lefty Howe. He pulled in beside the float. When he stepped up on the
planks, he limped perceptibly.

"Land alive, what happened yuh, Lefty?" his wife cried.

"Got a rap on the leg with a peevy," he said. "Nothin' much."

"Why did the Waterbug go down the lake?" Stella asked breathlessly. The man's face was serious.
"What happened up there?"

"There was a fuss," he answered quietly. "Three or four of the boys got beat up so they need
patchin'. Jack's takin' 'em down to the hospital. Damn that yeller-headed Monohan!" his voice
lifted suddenly in uncontrollable anger. "Billy Dale was killed this mornin', mother."

Stella felt herself grow sick. Death is a small matter when it strikes afar, among strangers.
When it comes to one's door! Billy Dale had piloted the Waterbug for a year, a chubby, round-faced
boy of twenty, a foster-son, of Mother Howe's before she had children of her own. Stella had
asked Jack to put him on the Waterbug because he was such a loyal, cheery sort of soul, and
Billy had been a part of every expedition they had taken around the lake. She could not think
of him as a rigid, lifeless lump of clay. Why, only the day before he had been laughing and
chattering aboard the cruiser, going up and down the cabin floor on his hands and knees, Jack
Junior perched triumphantly astride his back.

"What happened?" she cried wildly. "Tell me, quick."

"It's quick told," Howe said grimly. "We were ready at daylight. Monohan's got a hard crew,
and they jumped us as soon as we started to clear the channel. So we cleared them, first. It
didn't take so long. Three of our men was used bad, and there's plenty of sore heads on both
sides. But we did the job. After we got them on the run, we blowed up their swifters an' piles
with giant. Then we begun to put the cedar through. Billy was on the bank when somebody shot
him from across the river. One mercy, he never knew what hit him. An' you'll never come so
close bein' a widow again, Mrs. Fyfe, an' not be. That bullet was meant for Jack, I figure.
He was sittin' down. Billy was standin' right behind him watchin' the logs go through. Whoever
he was, he shot high, that's all. There, mother, don't cry. That don't help none. What's done's
done."

Stella turned and walked up to the house, stunned. She could not credit bloodshed, death. Always
in her life both had been things remote. And as the real significance of Lefty Howe's story
grew on her, she shuddered. It lay at her door, equally with her and Monohan, even if neither
of their hands had sped the bullet,--an indirect responsibility but gruesomely real to her.

God only knows to what length she might have gone in reaction. She was quivering under that
self-inflicted lash, bordering upon hysteria when she reached the house. She could not shut
out a too-vivid picture of Billy Dale lying murdered on the Tyee's bank, of the accusing look
with which Fyfe must meet her. Rightly so, she held. She did not try to shirk. She had followed
the line of least resistance, lacked the dour courage to pull herself up in the beginning,
and it led to this. She felt Billy Dale's blood wet on her soft hands. She walked into her
own house panting like a hunted animal.

And she had barely crossed the threshold when back in the rear Jack Junior's baby voice rose
in a shrill scream of pain.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stella scarcely heard her husband and the doctor come in. For a weary age she had been sitting
in a low rocker, a pillow across her lap, and on that the little, tortured body swaddled with
cotton soaked in olive oil, the only dressing she and Mrs. Howe could devise to ease the pain.
All those other things which had so racked her, the fight on the Tyee, the shooting of Billy
Dale, they had vanished somehow into thin air before the dread fact that her baby was dying
slowly before her anguished eyes. She sat numbed with that deadly assurance, praying without
hope for help to come, hopeless that any medical skill would avail when it did come. So many
hours had been wasted while a man rowed to Benton's camp, while the Chickamin steamed to Roaring
Springs, while the Waterbug came driving back. Five hours! And the skin, yes, even shreds of
flesh, had come away in patches with Jack Junior's clothing when she took it off. She bent
over him, fearful that every feeble breath would be his last.

She looked up at the doctor. Fyfe was beside her, his calked boots biting into the oak floor.

"See what you can do, doc," he said huskily. Then to Stella: "How did it happen?"

"He toddled away from Martha," she whispered. "Sam Foo had set a pan of boiling water on the
kitchen floor. He fell into it. Oh, my poor little darling."

They watched the doctor bare the terribly scalded body, examine it, listen to the boy's breathing,
count his pulse. In the end he re-dressed the tiny body with stuff from the case with which
a country physician goes armed against all emergencies. He was very deliberate and thoughtful.
Stella looked her appeal when he finished.

"He's a sturdy little chap," he said, "and we'll do our best. A child frequently survives terrific
shock. It would be mistaken kindness for me to make light of his condition simply to spare
your feelings. He has an even chance. I shall stay until morning. Now, I think it would be
best to lay him on a bed. You must relax, Mrs. Fyfe. I can see that the strain is telling on
you. You mustn't allow yourself to get in that abnormal condition. The baby is not conscious
of pain. He is not suffering half so much in his body as you are in your mind, and you mustn't
do that. Be hopeful. We'll need your help. We should have a nurse, but there was no time to
get one."

They laid Jack Junior amid downy pillows on Stella's bed. The doctor stood looking at him,
then drew a chair beside the bed.

"Go and walk about a little, Mrs. Fyfe," he advised, "and have your dinner. I'll want to watch
the boy a while."

But Stella did not want to walk. She did not want to eat. She was scarcely aware that her limbs
were cramped and aching from her long vigil in the chair. She was not conscious of herself
and her problems, any more. Every shift of her mind turned on her baby, the little mite she
had nursed at her breast, the one joy untinctured with bitterness that was left her. The bare
chance that those little feet might never patter across the floor again, that little voice
never wake her in the morning crying "Mom-mom," drove her distracted.

She went out into the living room, walked to a window, stood there drumming on the pane with
nervous fingers. Dusk was falling outside; a dusk was creeping over her. She shuddered.

Fyfe came up behind her, put his hands on her shoulders, and turned her so that she faced him.

"I wish I could help, Stella," he whispered. "I wish I could make you feel less forlorn. Poor
little kiddies--both of you."

She shook off his hands, not because she rebelled against his touch, against his sympathy,
merely because she had come to that nervous state where she scarce realized what she did.

"Oh," she choked, "I can't bear it. My baby, my little baby boy. The one bright spot that's
left, and he has to suffer like that. If he dies, it's the end of everything for me."

Fyfe stared at her. The warm, pitying look on his face ebbed away, hardened into his old, mask-like
absence of expression.

"No," he said quietly, "it would only be the beginning. Lord God, but this has been a day."

He whirled about with a quick gesture of his hands, a harsh, raspy laugh that was very near
a sob, and left her. Twenty minutes later, when Stella was irresistibly drawn back to the bedroom,
she found him sitting sober and silent, looking at his son.

A little past midnight Jack Junior died.

CHAPTER XIX

FREE AS THE WIND

Stella sat watching the gray lines of rain beat down on the asphalt, the muddy rivulets that
streamed along the gutter. A forlorn sighing of wind in the bare boughs of a gaunt elm that
stood before her window reminded her achingly of the wind drone among the tall firs.

A ghastly two weeks had intervened since Jack Junior's little life blinked out. There had been
wild moments when she wished she could keep him company on that journey into the unknown. But
grief seldom kills. Sometimes it hardens. Always it works a change, a greater or less revamping
of the spirit. It was so with Stella Fyfe, although she was not keenly aware of any forthright
metamorphosis. She was, for the present, too actively involved in material changes.

The storm and stress of that period between her yielding to the lure of Monohan's personality
and the burial of her boy had sapped her of all emotional reaction. When they had performed
the last melancholy service for him and went back to the bungalow at Cougar Point, she was
as physically exhausted, as near the limit of numbed endurance in mind and body as it is possible
for a young and healthy woman to become. And when a measure of her natural vitality re-asserted
itself, she laid her course. She could no more abide the place where she was than a pardoned
convict can abide the prison that has restrained him. It was empty now of everything that made
life tolerable, the hushed rooms a constant reminder of her loss. She would catch herself listening
for that baby voice, for those pattering footsteps, and realize with a sickening pang that
she would never hear them again.

The snapping of that last link served to deepen and widen the gulf between her and Fyfe. He
went about his business grave and preoccupied. They seldom talked together. She knew that his
boy had meant a lot to him; but he had his work. He did not have to sit with folded hands and
think until thought drove him into the bogs of melancholy.

And so the break came. With desperate abruptness Stella told him that she could not stay, that
feeling as she did, she despised herself for unwilling acceptance of everything where she could
give nothing in return, that the original mistake of their marriage would never be rectified
by a perpetuation of that mistake.

"What's the use, Jack?" she finished. "You and I are so made that we can't be neutral. We've
got to be thoroughly in accord, or we have to part. There's no chance for us to get back to
the old way of living. I don't want to; I can't. I could never be complaisant and agreeable
again. We might as well come to a full stop, and each go his own way."

She had braced herself for a clash of wills. There was none. Fyfe listened to her, looked at
her long and earnestly, and in the end made a quick, impatient gesture with his hands.

"Your life's your own to make what you please of, now that the kid's no longer a factor," he
said quietly. "What do you want to do? Have you made any plans?"

"I have to live, naturally," she replied. "Since I've got my voice back, I feel sure I can
turn that to account. I should like to go to Seattle first and look around. It can be supposed
I have gone visiting, until one or the other of us takes a decisive legal step."

"That's simple enough," he returned, after a minute's reflection. "Well, if it has to be, for
God's sake let's get it over with."

And now it was over with. Fyfe remarked once that with them luckily it was not a question of
money. But for Stella it was indeed an economic problem. When she left Roaring Lake, her private
account contained over two thousand dollars. Her last act in Vancouver was to re-deposit that
to her husband's credit. Only so did she feel that she could go free of all obligation, clean-handed,
without stultifying herself in her own eyes. She had treasured as a keepsake the only money
she had ever earned in her life, her brother's check for two hundred and seventy dollars, the
wages of that sordid period in the cookhouse. She had it now. Two hundred and seventy dollars
capital. She hadn't sold herself for that. She had given honest value, double and treble, in
the sweat of her brow. She was here now, in a five-dollar-a-week housekeeping room, foot-loose,
free as the wind. That was Fyfe's last word to her. He had come with her to Seattle and waited
patiently at a hotel until she found a place to live. Then he had gone away without protest.

"Well, Stella," he had said, "I guess this is the end of our experiment. In six months,--under
the State law,--you can be legally free by a technicality. So far as I'm concerned, you're
free as the wind right now. Good luck to you."

He turned away with a smile on his lips, a smile that his eyes belied, and she watched him
walk to the corner through the same sort of driving rain that now pelted in gray lines against
her window.

She shook herself impatiently out of that retrospect. It was done. Life, as her brother had
prophesied, was no kid-glove affair. The future was her chief concern now, not the past. Yet
that immediate past, bits of it, would now and then blaze vividly before her mental vision.
The only defense against that lay in action, in something to occupy her mind and hands. If
that motive, the desire to shun mental reflexes that brought pain, were not sufficient, there
was the equally potent necessity to earn her bread. Never again would she be any man's dependent,
a pampered doll, a parasite trading on her sex. They were hard names she called herself.

Meantime she had not been idle; neither had she come to Seattle on a blind impulse. She knew
of a singing teacher there whose reputation was more than local, a vocal authority whose word
carried weight far beyond Puget Sound. First she meant to see him, get an impartial estimate
of the value of her voice, of the training she would need. Through him she hoped to get in
touch with some outlet for the only talent she possessed. And she had received more encouragement
than she dared hope. He listened to her sing, then tested the range and flexibility of her voice.

"Amazing," he said frankly. "You have a rare natural endowment. If you have the determination
and the sense of dramatic values that musical discipline will give you, you should go far.
You should find your place in opera."

"That's my ambition," Stella answered. "But that requires time and training. And that means
money. I have to earn it."

The upshot of that conversation was an appointment to meet the manager of a photoplay house,
who wanted a singer. Stella looked at her watch now, and rose to go. Money, always money, if
one wanted to get anywhere, she reflected cynically. No wonder men struggled desperately for
that token of power.

She reached the Charteris Theater, and a doorman gave her access to the dim interior. There
was a light in the operator's cage high at the rear, another shaded glow at the piano, where
a young man with hair brushed sleekly back chewed gum incessantly while he practiced picture
accompaniments. The place looked desolate, with its empty seats, its bald stage front with
the empty picture screen. Stella sat down to wait for the manager. He came in a few minutes;
his manner was very curt, business-like. He wanted her to sing a popular song, a bit from a
Verdi opera, Gounod's Ave Maria, so that he could get a line on what she could do. He appeared
to be a pessimist in regard to singers.

"Take the stage right there," he instructed. "Just as if the spot was on you. Now then."

It wasn't a heartening process to stand there facing the gum-chewing pianist, and the manager's
cigar glowing redly five rows back, and the silent emptinesses beyond,--much like singing into
the mouth of a gloomy cave. It was more or less a critical moment for Stella. But she was keenly
aware that she had to make good in a small way before she could grasp the greater opportunity,
so she did her best, and her best was no mediocre performance. She had never sung in a place
designed to show off--or to show up--a singer's quality. She was even a bit astonished herself.

She elected to sing the Ave Maria first. Her voice went pealing to the domed ceiling as sweet
as a silver bell, resonant as a trumpet. When the last note died away, there was a momentary
silence. Then the accompanist looked up at her, frankly admiring.

"You're some warbler," he said emphatically, "believe me."

Behind him the manager's cigar lost its glow. He remained silent. The pianist struck up "Let's
Murder Care," a rollicking trifle from a Broadway hit. Last of all he thumped, more or less
successfully, through the accompaniment to an aria that had in it vocal gymnastics as well
as melody.

"Come up to the office, Mrs. Fyfe," Howard said, with a singular change from his first manner.

"I can give you an indefinite engagement at thirty a week," he made a blunt offer. "You can
sing. You're worth more, but right now I can't pay more. If you pull business,--and I rather
think you will,--have to sing twice in the afternoon and twice in the evening."

Stella considered briefly. Thirty dollars a week meant a great deal more than mere living,
as she meant to live. And it was a start, a move in the right direction. She accepted; they
discussed certain details. She did not care to court publicity under her legal name, so they
agreed that she should be billed as Madame Benton,--the Madame being Howard's suggestion,--and
she took her leave.

Upon the Monday following Stella stood for the first time in a fierce white glare that dazzled
her and so shut off partially her vision of the rows and rows of faces. She went on with a
horrible slackness in her knees, a dry feeling in her throat; and she was not sure whether
she would sing or fly. When she had finished her first song and bowed herself into the wings,
she felt her heart leap and hammer at the hand-clapping that grew and grew till it was like
the beat of ocean surf.

Howard came running to meet her.

"You've sure got 'em going," he laughed. "Fine work. Go out and give 'em some more."

In time she grew accustomed to these things, to the applause she never failed to get, to the
white beam that beat down from the picture cage, to the eager, upturned faces in the first
rows. Her confidence grew; ambition began to glow like a flame within her. She had gone through
the primary stages of voice culture, and she was following now a method of practice which produced
results. She could see and feel that herself. Sometimes the fear that her voice might go as
it had once gone would make her tremble. But that, her teacher assured her, was a remote chance.

So she gained in those weeks something of her old poise. Inevitably, she was very lonely at
times. But she fought against that with the most effective weapon she knew,--incessant activity.
She was always busy. There was a rented piano now sitting in the opposite corner from the gas
stove on which she cooked her meals. Howard kept his word. She "pulled business," and he raised
her to forty a week and offered her a contract which she refused, because other avenues, bigger
and better than singing in a motion-picture house, were tentatively opening.

December was waning when she came to Seattle. In the following weeks her only contact with
the past, beyond the mill of her own thoughts, was an item in the Seattle Times touching upon
certain litigation in which Fyfe was involved. Briefly, Monohan, under the firm name of the
Abbey-Monohan Timber Company, was suing Fyfe for heavy damages for the loss of certain booms
of logs blown up and set adrift at the mouth of the Tyee River. There was appended an account
of the clash over the closed channel and the killing of Billy Dale. No one had been brought
to book for that yet. Any one of sixty men might have fired the shot.

It made Stella wince, for it took her back to that dreadful day. She could not bear to think
that Billy Dale's blood lay on her and Monohan, neither could she stifle an uneasy apprehension
that something more grievous yet might happen on Roaring Lake. But at least she had done what
she could. If she were the flame, she had removed herself from the powder magazine. Fyfe had
pulled his cedar crew off the Tyee before she left. If aggression came, it must come from one
direction.

They were both abstractions now, she tried to assure herself. The glamour of Monohan was fading,
and she could not say why. She did not know if his presence would stir again all that old tumult
of feeling, but she did know that she was cleaving to a measure of peace, of serenity of mind,
and she did not want him or any other man to disturb it. She told herself that she had never
loved Jack Fyfe. She recognized in him a lot that a woman is held to admire, but there were
also qualities in him that had often baffled and sometimes frightened her. She wondered sometimes
what he really thought of her and her actions, why, when she had been nerved to a desperate
struggle for her freedom, if she could gain it no other way, he had let her go so easily?

After all, she reflected cynically, love comes and goes, but one is driven to pursue material
advantages while life lasts. And she wondered, even while the thought took form in her mind,
how long she would retain that point of view.

CHAPTER XX

ECHOES

In the early days of February Stella had an unexpected visitor. The landlady called her to
the common telephone, and when she took up the receiver, Linda Abbey's voice came over the wire.

"When can I see you?" she asked. "I'll only be here to-day and to-morrow."

"Now, if you like," Stella responded. "I'm free until two-thirty."

"I'll be right over," Linda said. "I'm only about ten minutes drive from where you are."

Stella went back to her room both glad and sorry: glad to hear a familiar, friendly voice amid
this loneliness which sometimes seemed almost unendurable; sorry because her situation involved
some measure of explanation to Linda. That hurt.

But she was not prepared for the complete understanding of the matter Linda Abbey tacitly exhibited
before they had exchanged a dozen sentences.

"How did you know?" Stella asked. "Who told you?"

"No one. I drew my own conclusions when I heard you had gone to Seattle," Linda replied. "I
saw it coming. My dear, I'm not blind, and I was with you a lot last summer. I knew you too
well to believe you'd make a move while you had your baby to think of. When he was gone--well,
I looked for anything to happen."

"Still, nothing much has happened," Stella remarked with a touch of bitterness, "except the
inevitable break between a man and a woman when there's no longer any common bond between them.
It's better so. Jack has a multiplicity of interests. He can devote himself to them without
the constant irritation of an unresponsive wife. We've each taken our own road. That's all
that has happened."

"So far," Linda murmured. "It's a pity. I liked that big, silent man of yours. I like you both.
It seems a shame things have to turn out this way just because--oh, well. Charlie and I used
to plan things for the four of us, little family combinations when we settled down on the lake.
Honestly, Stella, do you think it's worth while? I never could see you as a sentimental little
chump, letting a momentary aberration throw your whole life out of gear."

"How do you know that I have?" Stella asked gravely.

Linda shrugged her shoulders expressively.

"I suppose it looks silly, if not worse, to you," Stella said. "But I can't help what you think.
My reason has dictated every step I've taken since last fall. If I'd really given myself up
to sentimentalism, the Lord only knows what might have happened."

"Exactly," Linda responded drily. "Now, there's no use beating around the bush. We get so in
that habit as a matter of politeness,--our sort of people,--that we seldom say in plain English
just what we really mean. Surely, you and I know each other well enough to be frank, even if
it's painful. Very likely you'll say I'm a self-centered little beast, but I'm going to marry
your brother, my dear, and I'm going to marry him in the face of considerable family opposition.
I am selfish. Can you show me any one who isn't largely swayed by motives of self-interest,
if it comes to that? I want to be happy. I want to be on good terms with my own people, so
that Charlie will have some of the opportunities dad can so easily put in his way. Charlie
isn't rich. He hasn't done anything, according to the Abbey standard, but make a fair start.
Dad's patronizing as sin, and mother merely tolerates the idea because she knows that I'll
marry Charlie in any case, opposition or no opposition. I came over expressly to warn you,
Stella. Anything like scandal now would be--well, it would upset so many things."

"You needn't be uneasy," Stella answered coldly. "There isn't any foundation for scandal. There
won't be."

"I don't know," Linda returned, "Walter Monohan came to Seattle a boat ahead of me. In fact,
that's largely why I came."

Stella flushed angrily.

"Well, what of that?" she demanded. "His movements are nothing to me."

"I don't know," Linda rejoined. She had taken off her gloves and was rolling them nervously
in a ball. Now she dropped them and impulsively grasped Stella's hands.

"Stella, Stella," she cried. "Don't get that hurt, angry look. I don't like to say these things
to you, but I feel that I have to. I'm worried, and I'm afraid for you and your husband, for
Charlie and myself, for all of us together. Walter Monohan is as dangerous as any man who's
unscrupulous and rich and absolutely self-centered can possibly be. I know the glamour of the
man. I used to feel it myself. It didn't go very far with me, because his attention wandered
away from me before my feelings were much involved, and I had a chance to really fathom them
and him. He has a queer gift of making women care for him, and he trades on it deliberately.
He doesn't play fair; he doesn't mean to. Oh, I know so many cruel things, despicable things,
he's done. Don't look at me like that, Stella. I'm not saying this just to wound you. I'm simply
putting you on your guard. You can't play with fire and not get burned. If you've been nursing
any feeling for Walter Monohan, crush it, cut it out, just as you'd have a surgeon cut out
a cancer. Entirely apart from any question of Jack Fyfe, don't let this man play any part whatever
in your life. You'll be sorry if you do. There's not a man or woman whose relations with Monohan
have been intimate enough to enable them to really know the man and his motives who doesn't
either hate or fear or despise him, and sometimes all three."

"That's a sweeping indictment," Stella said stiffly. "And you're very earnest. Yet I can hardly
take your word at its face value. If he's so impossible a person, how does it come that you
and your people countenanced him socially? Besides, it's all rather unnecessary, Linda. I'm
not the least bit likely to do anything that will reflect on your prospective husband, which
is what it simmers down to, isn't it? I've been pulled and hauled this way and that ever since
I've been on the coast, simply because I was dependent on some one else--first Charlie and
then Jack--for the bare necessities of life. When there's mutual affection, companionship,
all those intimate interests that marriage is supposed to imply, I daresay a woman gives full
measure for all she receives. If she doesn't, she's simply a sponge, clinging to a man for
what's in it. I couldn't bear that. You've been rather painfully frank; so will I be. One unhappy
marriage is quite enough for me. Looking back, I can see that even if Walter Monohan hadn't
stirred a feeling in me which I don't deny,--but which I'm not nearly so sure of as I was some
time ago,--I'd have come to just this stage, anyway. I was drifting all the time. My baby and
the conventions, that reluctance most women have to make a clean sweep of all the ties they've
been schooled to think unbreakable, kept me moving along the old grooves. It would have come
about a little more gradually, that's all. But I have broken away, and I'm going to live my
own life after a fashion, and I'm going to achieve independence of some sort. I'm never going
to be any man's mate again until I'm sure of myself--and of him. There's my philosophy of life,
as simply as I can put it. I don't think you need to worry about me. Right now I couldn't muster
up the least shred of passion of any sort. I seem to have felt so much since last summer, that
I'm like a sponge that's been squeezed dry."

"I don't blame you, dear," Linda said wistfully. "A woman's heart is a queer thing, though.
When you compare the two men--Oh, well, I know Walter so thoroughly, and you don't. You couldn't
ever have cared much for Jack."

"That hasn't any bearing on it now," Stella answered. "I'm still his wife, and I respect him,
and I've got a stubborn sort of pride. There won't be any divorce proceedings or any scandal.
I'm free personally to work out my own economic destiny. That, right now, is engrossing enough
for me."

Linda sat a minute, thoughtful.

"So you think my word for Walter Monohan's deviltry isn't worth much," she said. "Well, I could
furnish plenty of details. But I don't think I shall. Not because you'd be angry, but because
I don't think you're quite as blind as I believed. And I'm not a natural gossip. Aside from
that, he's quite too busy on Roaring Lake for it to mean any good. He never gets active like
that unless he has some personal axe to grind. In this case, I can grasp his motive easily
enough. Jack Fyfe may not have said a word to you, but he certainly knows Monohan. They've
clashed before, so I've been told. Jack probably saw what was growing on you, and I don't think
he'd hesitate to tell Monohan to walk away around. If he did,--or if you definitely turned
Monohan down; you see I'm rather in the dark,--he'd go to any length to play even with. Fyfe.
When Monohan wants anything, he looks upon it as his own; and when you wound his vanity, you've
stabbed him in his most vital part. He never rests then until he's paid the score. Father was
always a little afraid of him. I think that's the chief reason for selling out his Roaring
Lake interests to Monohan. He didn't want to be involved in whatever Monohan contemplated doing.
He has a wholesome respect for your husband's rather volcanic ability. Monohan has, too. But
he has always hated Jack Fyfe. To my knowledge for three years,--prior to pulling you out of
the water that time,--he never spoke of Jack Fyfe without a sneer. He hates any one who beats
him at anything. That ruction on the Tyee is a sample. He'll spend money, risk lives, all but
his own, do anything to satisfy a grudge. That's one of the things that worries me. Charlie
will be into anything that Fyfe is, for Fyfe's his friend. I admire the spirit of the thing,
but I don't want our little applecart upset in the sort of struggle Fyfe and Monohan may stage.
I don't even know what form it will ultimately take, except that from certain indications he'll
try to make Fyfe spend money faster than he can make it, perhaps in litigation over timber,
over anything that offers, by making trouble in his camps, harassing him at every turn. He
can, you know. He has immense resources. Oh, well, I'm satisfied, Stella, that you're a much
wiser girl than I thought when I knew you'd left Jack Fyfe. I'm quite sure now you aren't the
sort of woman Monohan could wind around his little finger. But I'm sure he'll try. You'll see,
and remember what I tell you. There, I think I'd better run along. You're not angry, are you,
Stella?"

"You mean well enough, I suppose," Stella answered. "But as a matter of fact, you've made me
feel rather nasty, Linda. I don't want to talk or even think of these things. The best thing
you and Charlie and Jack Fyfe could do is to forget such a discontented pendulum as I ever
existed."

"Oh, bosh!" Linda exclaimed, as she drew on her gloves. "That's sheer nonsense. You're going
to be my big sister in three months. Things will work out. If you felt you had to take this
step for your own good, no one can blame you. It needn't make any difference in our friendship."

On the threshold she turned on her heel. "Don't forget what I've said," she repeated. "Don't
trust Monohan. Not an inch."

Stella flung herself angrily into a chair when the door closed on Linda Abbey. Her eyes snapped.
She resented being warned and cautioned, as if she were some moral weakling who could not be
trusted to make the most obvious distinctions. Particularly did she resent having Monohan flung
in her teeth, when she was in a way to forget him, to thrust the strange charm of the man forever
out of her thoughts. Why, she asked bitterly, couldn't other people do as Jack Fyfe had done:
cut the Gordian knot at one stroke and let it rest at that?

So Monohan was in Seattle? Would he try to see her?

Stella had not minced matters with herself when she left Roaring Lake. Dazed and shaken by
suffering, nevertheless she knew that she would not always suffer, that in time she would get
back to that normal state in which the human ego diligently pursues happiness. In time the
legal tie between herself and Jack Fyfe would cease to exist. If Monohan cared for her as she
thought he cared, a year or two more or less mattered little. They had all their lives before
them. In the long run, the errors and mistakes of that upheaval would grow dim, be as nothing.
Jack Fyfe would shrug his shoulders and forget, and in due time he would find a fitter mate,
one as loyal as he deserved. And why might not she, who had never loved him, whose marriage
to him had been only a climbing out of the fire into the frying-pan?

So that with all her determination to make the most of her gift of song, so that she would
never again be buffeted by material urgencies in a material world, Stella had nevertheless
been listening with the ear of her mind, so to speak, for a word from Monohan to say that he
understood, and that all was well.

Paradoxically, she had not expected to hear that word. Once in Seattle, away from it all, there
slowly grew upon her the conviction that in Monohan's fine avowal and renunciation he had only
followed the cue she had given. In all else he had played his own hand. She couldn't forget
Billy Dale. If the motive behind that bloody culmination were thwarted love, it was a thing
to shrink from. It seemed to her now, forcing herself to reason with cold-blooded logic, that
Monohan desired her less than he hated Fyfe's possession of her; that she was merely an added
factor in the breaking out of a struggle for mastery between two diverse and dominant men.
Every sign and token went to show that the pot of hate had long been simmering. She had only
contributed to its boiling over.

"Oh, well," she sighed, "it's out of my hands altogether now. I'm sorry, but being sorry doesn't
make any difference. I'm the least factor, it seems, in the whole muddle. A woman isn't much
more than an incident in a man's life, after all."

She dressed to go to the Charteris, for her day's work was about to begin. As so often happens
in life's uneasy flow, periods of calm are succeeded by events in close sequence. Howard and
his wife insisted that Stella join them at supper after the show. They were decent folk who
accorded frank admiration to her voice and her personality. They had been kind to her in many
little ways, and she was glad to accept.

At eleven a taxi deposited them at the door of Wain's. The Seattle of yesterday needs no introduction
to Wain's, and its counterpart can be found in any cosmopolitan, seaport city. It is a place
of subtle distinction, tucked away on one of the lower hill streets, where after-theater parties
and nighthawks with an eye for pretty women, an ear for sensuous music, and a taste for good
food, go when they have money to spend.

Ensconced behind a potted palm, with a waiter taking Howard's order, Stella let her gaze travel
over the diners. She brought up with a repressed start at a table but four removes from her
own, her eyes resting upon the unmistakable profile of Walter Monohan. He was dining vis-à-vis
with a young woman chiefly remarkable for a profusion of yellow hair and a blazing diamond
in the lobe of each ear,--a plump, blond, vivacious person of a type that Stella, even with
her limited experience, found herself instantly classifying.

A bottle of wine rested in an iced dish between them. Monohan was toying with the stem of a
half-emptied glass, smiling at his companion. The girl leaned toward him, speaking rapidly,
pouting. Monohan nodded, drained his glass, signaled a waiter. When she got into an elaborate
opera cloak and Monohan into his Inverness, they went out, the plump, jeweled hand resting
familiarly on Monohan's arm. Stella breathed a sigh of relief as they passed, looking straight
ahead. She watched through the upper half of the café window and saw a machine draw against
the curb, saw the be-scarfed yellow head enter and Monohan's silk hat follow. Then she relaxed,
but she had little appetite for her food. A hot wave of shamed disgust kept coming over her.
She felt sick, physically revolted. Very likely Monohan had put her in that class, in his secret
thought. She was glad when the evening ended, and the Howards left her at her own doorstep.

On the carpet where it had been thrust by the postman under the door, a white square caught
her eye, and she picked it up before she switched on the light. And she got a queer little
shock when the light fell on the envelope, for it was addressed in Jack Fyfe's angular handwriting.

She tore it open. It was little enough in the way of a letter, a couple of lines scrawled across
a sheet of note-paper.

    "Dear Girl:

    "I was in Seattle a few days ago and heard you sing. Here's hoping
    good luck rides with you.

    "JACK."

Stella sat down by the window. Outside, the ever-present Puget Sound rain drove against wall
and roof and sidewalk, gathered in wet, glistening pools in the street. Through that same window
she had watched Jack Fyfe walk out of her life three months ago without a backward look, sturdily,
silently, uncomplaining. He hadn't whined, he wasn't whining now,--only flinging a cheerful
word out of the blank spaces of his own life into the blank spaces of hers. Stella felt something
warm and wet steal down her cheeks.

She crumpled the letter with a sudden, spasmodic clenching of her hand. A lump rose chokingly
in her throat. She stabbed at the light switch and threw herself on the bed, sobbing her heart's
cry in the dusky quiet. And she could not have told why, except that she had been overcome
by a miserably forlorn feeling; all the mental props she relied upon were knocked out from
under her. Somehow those few scrawled words had flung swiftly before her, like a picture on
a screen, a vision of her baby toddling uncertainly across the porch of the white bungalow.
And she could not bear to think of that!

       *       *       *       *       *

When the elm before her window broke into leaf, and the sodden winter skies were transformed
into a warm spring vista of blue, Stella was singing a special engagement in a local vaudeville
house that boasted a "big time" bill. She had stepped up. The silvery richness of her voice
had carried her name already beyond local boundaries, as the singing master under whom she
studied prophesied it would. In proof thereof she received during April a feminine committee
of two from Vancouver bearing an offer of three hundred dollars for her appearance in a series
of three concerts under the auspices of the Woman's Musical Club, to be given in the ballroom
of Vancouver's new million-dollar hostelry, the Granada. The date was mid-July. She took the
offer under advisement, promising a decision in ten days.

The money tempted her; that was her greatest need now,--not for her daily bread, but for an
accumulated fund that would enable her to reach New York and ultimately Europe, if that seemed
the most direct route to her goal. She had no doubts about reaching it now. Confidence came
to abide with her. She throve on work; and with increasing salary, her fund grew. Coming from
any other source, she would have accepted this further augmentation of it without hesitation,
since for a comparative beginner, it was a liberal offer.

But Vancouver was Fyfe's home town; it had been hers. Many people knew her; the local papers
would feature her. She did not know how Fyfe would take it; she did not even know if there
had been any open talk of their separation. Money, she felt, was a small thing beside opening
old sores. For herself, she was tolerably indifferent to Vancouver's social estimate of her
or her acts. Nevertheless, so long as she bore Fyfe's name, she did not feel free to make herself
a public figure there without his sanction. So she wrote to him in some detail concerning the
offer and asked point-blank if it mattered to him.

His answer came with uncanny promptness, as if every mail connection had been made on the minute.

    "If it is to your advantage to sing here," he wrote, "by all means
    accept. Why should it matter to me? I would even be glad to come and
    hear you sing if I could do so without stirring up vain longings and
    useless regrets. As for the other considerations you mention, they
    are of no weight at all. I never wanted to keep you in a glass case.
    Even if all were well between us, I wouldn't have any feeling about
    your singing in public other than pride in your ability to command
    public favor with your voice. It's a wonderful voice, too big and
    fine a thing to remain obscure.

    "JACK."

He added, evidently as an afterthought, a somewhat lengthy postscript:

    "I wish you would do something next month, not as a favor to me
    particularly, but to ease things along for Charlie and Linda. They
    are genuinely in love with each other. I can see you turning up your
    little nose at that. I know you've held a rather biased opinion of
    your brother and his works since that unfortunate winter. But it
    doesn't do to be too self-righteous. Charlie, then, was very little
    different from any rather headlong, self-centered, red-blooded
    youngster. I'm afraid I'm expressing myself badly. What I mean is
    that while he was drifting then into a piggy muddle, he had the
    sense to take a brace before his lapses became vices. Partly
    because--I've flattered myself--I talked to him like a Dutch uncle,
    and partly because he's cast too much in the same clean-cut mold
    that you are, to let his natural passions run clean away with him.
    He'll always be more or less a profound egotist. But he'll be a good
    deal more of a man than you, perhaps, think.

    "I never used to think much of these matters. I suppose my own
    failure at a thing in which I was cocksure of success had made me a
    bit dubious about anybody I care for starting so serious an
    undertaking as marriage under any sort of handicap. I do like
    Charlie Benton and Linda Abbey. They are marrying in the face of her
    people's earnest attempt to break it up. The Abbeys are hopelessly
    conservative. Anything in the nature of our troubles aired in public
    would make it pretty tough sledding for Linda. As it stands, they
    are consenting very ungracefully, but as a matter of family pride,
    intend to give Linda a big wedding.

    "Now, no one outside of you and me and--well you and me--knows that
    there is a rift in our lute. I haven't been quizzed--naturally. It
    got about that you'd taken up voice culture with an eye to opera as
    a counteracting influence to the grief of losing your baby. I
    fostered that rumor--simply to keep gossip down until things shaped
    themselves positively. Once these two are married, they have
    started--Abbey père and mère will then be unable to frown on
    Linda's contemplated alliance with a family that's produced a
    divorce case.

    "I do not suppose you will take any legal steps until after those
    concerts. Until then, please keep up the fiction that the house of
    Fyfe still stands on a solid foundation--a myth that you've taken no
    measures to dispel since you left. When it does come, it will be a
    sort of explosion, and I'd rather have it that way--one amazed yelp
    from our friends and the newspapers, and it's over.

    "Meantime, you will receive an invitation to the wedding. I hope
    you'll accept. You needn't have any compunctions about playing the
    game. You will not encounter me, as I have my hands full here, and
    I'm notorious in Vancouver for backing out of functions, anyway. It
    is not imperative that you should do this. It's merely a safeguard
    against a bomb from the Abbey fortress.

    "Linda is troubled by a belief that upon small pretext they would be
    very nasty, and she naturally doesn't want any friction with her
    folks. They have certain vague but highly material ambitions for her
    matrimonially, which she, a very sensible girl, doesn't subscribe
    to. She's a very shrewd and practical young person, for all her
    whole-hearted passion for your brother. I rather think she pretty
    clearly guesses the breach in our rampart--not the original mistake
    in our over-hasty plunge--but the wedge that divided us for good. If
    she does, and I'm quite sure she does, she is certainly good stuff,
    because she is most loyally your champion. I say that because
    Charlie had a tendency this spring to carp at your desertion of
    Roaring Lake. Things aren't going any too good with us, one way and
    another, and of course he, not knowing the real reason of your
    absence, couldn't understand why you stay away. I had to squelch
    him, and Linda abetted me successfully. However, that's beside the
    point. I hope I haven't irritated you. I'm such a dumb sort of brute
    generally. I don't know what imp of prolixity got into my pen. I've
    got it all off my chest now, or pretty near.

    "J.H.F."

Stella sat thoughtfully gazing at the letter for a long time.

"I wonder?" she said aloud, and the sound of her own voice galvanized her into action. She
put on a coat and went out into the mellow spring sunshine, and walked till the aimless straying
of her feet carried her to a little park that overlooked the far reach of the Sound and gave
westward on the snowy Olympics, thrusting hoary and aloof to a perfect sky, like their brother
peaks that ringed Roaring Lake. And all the time her mind kept turning on a question whose
asking was rooted neither in fact nor necessity, an inquiry born of a sentiment she had never
expected to feel.

Should she go back to Jack Fyfe?

She shook her head impatiently when she faced that squarely. Why tread the same bitter road
again? But she put that self-interested phase of it aside and asked herself candidly if she
could go back and take up the old threads where they had been broken off and make life run
smoothly along the old, quiet channels? She was as sure as she was sure of the breath she drew
that Fyfe wanted her, that he longed for and would welcome her. But she was equally sure that
the old illusions would never serve. She couldn't even make him happy, much less herself. Monohan--well,
Monohan was a dead issue. He had come to the Charteris to see her, all smiles and eagerness.
She had been able to look at him and through him--and cut him dead--and do it without a single
flutter of her heart.

That brief and illuminating episode in Wain's had merely confirmed an impression that had slowly
grown upon her, and her outburst of feeling that night had only been the overflowing of shamed
anger at herself for letting his magnetic personality make so deep an impression on her that
she could admit to him that she cared. She felt that she had belittled herself by that. But
he was no longer a problem. She wondered now how he ever could have been. She recalled that
once Jack Fyfe had soberly told her she would never sense life's real values while she nursed
so many illusions. Monohan had been one of them.

"But it wouldn't work," she whispered to herself. "I couldn't do it. He'd know I only did it
because I was sorry, because I thought I should, because the old ties, and they seem so many
and so strong in spite of everything, were harder to break than the new road is to follow alone.
He'd resent anything like pity for his loneliness. And if Monohan has made any real trouble,
it began over me, or at least it focussed on me. And he might resent that. He's ten times a
better man than I am a woman. He thinks about the other fellow's side of things. I'm just what
he said about Charlie, self-centered, a profound egotist. If I really and truly loved Jack
Fyfe, I'd be a jealous little fury if he so much as looked at another woman. But I don't, and
I don't see why I don't. I want to be loved; I want to love. I've always wanted that so much
that I'll never dare trust my instincts about it again. I wonder why people like me exist to
go blundering about in the world, playing havoc with themselves and everybody else?"

Before she reached home, that self-sacrificing mood had vanished in the face of sundry twinges
of pride. Jack Fyfe hadn't asked her to come back; he never would ask her to come back. Of
that she was quite sure. She knew the stony determination of him too well. Neither hope or
heaven nor fear of hell would turn him aside when he had made a decision. If he ever had moments
of irresolution, he had successfully concealed any such weakness from those who knew him best.
No one ever felt called upon to pity Jack Fyfe, and in those rocked-ribbed qualities, Stella
had an illuminating flash, perhaps lay the secret of his failure ever to stir in her that yearning
tenderness which she knew herself to be capable of lavishing, which her nature impelled her
to lavish on some one.

"Ah, well," she sighed, when she came back to her rooms and put Fyfe's letter away in a drawer.
"I'll do the decent thing if they ask me. I wonder what Jack would say if he knew what I've
been debating with myself this afternoon? I wonder if we were actually divorced and I'd made
myself a reputation as a singer, and we happened to meet quite casually sometime, somewhere,
just how we'd really feel about each other?"

She was still musing on that, in a detached, impersonal fashion, when she caught a car down
to the theater for the matinée.

CHAPTER XXI

AN UNEXPECTED MEETING

The formally worded wedding card arrived in due course. Following close came a letter from
Linda Abbey, a missive that radiated friendliness and begged Stella to come a week before the date.

    "You're going to be pretty prominent in the public eye when you sing
    here," Linda wrote. "People are going to make a to-do over you. Ever
    so many have mentioned you since the announcement was made that
    you'll sing at the Granada concerts. I'm getting a lot of reflected
    glory as the future sister-in-law of a rising singer. So you may as
    well come and get your hand into the social game in preparation for
    being fussed over in July."

In the same mail was a characteristic note from Charlie which ran:

    "Dear Sis:

    "As the Siwashes say, long time I see you no. I might have dropped a
    line before, but you know what a punk correspondent I am. They tell
    me you're becoming a real noise musically. How about it?

    "Can't you break away from the fame and fortune stuff long enough to
    be on hand when Linda and I get married? I wasn't invited to your
    wedding, but I'd like to have you at mine. Jack says it's up to you
    to represent the Fyfe connection, as he's too busy. I'll come over
    to Seattle and get you, if you say so."

She capitulated at that and wrote saying that she would be there, and that she did not mind
the trip alone in the least. She did not want Charlie asking pertinent questions about why
she lived in such grubby quarters and practiced such strict economy in the matter of living.

Then there was the detail of arranging a break in her engagements, which ran continuously to
the end of June. She managed that easily enough, for she was becoming too great a drawing card
for managers to curtly override her wishes.

Almost before she realized it, June was at hand. Linda wrote again urgently, and Stella took
the night boat for Vancouver a week before the wedding day. Linda met her at the dock with
a machine. Mrs. Abbey was the essence of cordiality when she reached the big Abbey house on
Vancouver's aristocratic "heights," where the local capitalists, all those fortunate climbers
enriched by timber and mineral, grown wealthy in a decade through the great Coast boom, segregated
themselves in "Villas" and "Places" and "Views," all painfully new and sometimes garish, striving
for an effect in landscape and architecture which the very intensity of the striving defeated.
They were well-meaning folk, however, the Abbeys included.

Stella could not deny that she enjoyed the luxury of the Abbey ménage, the little festive round
which was shaping about Linda in these last days of her spinsterhood. She relished the change
from unremitting work. It amused her to startle little groups with the range and quality of
her voice, when they asked her to sing. They made a much ado over that, a genuine admiration
that flattered Stella. It was easy for her to fall into the swing of that life; it was only
a lapsing back to the old ways.

But she saw it now with a more critical vision. It was soft and satisfying and eminently desirable
to have everything one wanted without the effort of striving for it, but a begging wheedling
game on the part of these women. They were, she told herself rather harshly, an incompetent,
helpless lot, dependent one and all upon some man's favor or affection, just as she herself
had been all her life until the past few months. Some man had to work and scheme to pay the
bills. She did not know why this line of thought should arise, neither did she so far forget
herself as to voice these social heresies. But it helped to reconcile her with her new-found
independence, to put a less formidable aspect on the long, hard grind that lay ahead of her
before she could revel in equal affluence gained by her own efforts. All that they had she
desired,--homes, servants, clothes, social standing,--but she did not want these things bestowed
upon her as a favor by some man, the emoluments of sex.

She expected she would have to be on her guard with her brother, even to dissemble a little.
But she found him too deeply engrossed in what to him was the most momentous event of his career,
impatiently awaiting the day, rather dreading the publicity of it.

"Why in Sam Hill can't a man and a woman get married without all this fuss?" he complained
once. "Why should we make our private affairs a spectacle for the whole town?"

"Principally because mamma has her heart set on a spectacle," Linda laughed. "She'd hold up
her hands in horror if she heard you. Decorated bridal bower, high church dignitary, bridesmaids,
orange blossoms, rice, and all. Mamma likes to show off. Besides, that's the way it's done
in society. And the honeymoon."

They both giggled, as at some mirthful secret.

"Shall we tell her?" Linda nodded toward Stella.

"Sure," Benton said. "I thought you had."

"The happy couple will spend their honeymoon on a leisurely tour of the Southern and Eastern
States, remaining for some weeks in Philadelphia, where the groom has wealthy and influential
connections. It's all prepared for the pay-a-purs," Linda whispered with exaggerated secrecy
behind her hand.

Benton snorted.

"Can you beat that?" he appealed to Stella.

"And all the time," Linda continued, "the happy couple, unknown to every one, will be spending
their days in peace and quietness in their shanty at Halfway Point. My, but mamma would rave
if she knew. Don't give us away, Stella. It seems so senseless to squander a lot of money gadding
about on trains and living in hotels when we'd much rather be at home by ourselves. My husband's
a poor young man, Stella. 'Pore but worthy.' He has to make his fortune before we start in
spending it. I'm sick of all this spreading it on because dad has made a pile of money," she
broke out impatiently. "Our living used to be simple enough when I was a kid. I think I can
relish a little simplicity again for a change. Mamma's been trying for four years to marry
me off to her conception of an eligible man. It didn't matter a hang about his essential qualities
so long as he had money and an assured social position."

"Forget that," Charlie counseled slangily. "I have all the essential qualities, and I'll have
the money and social position too; you watch my smoke."

"Conceited ninny," Linda smiled. But there was no reproof in her tone, only pure comradeship
and affection, which Benton returned so openly and unaffectedly that Stella got up and left
them with a pang of envy, a dull little ache in her heart. She had missed that. It had passed
her by, that clean, spontaneous fusing of two personalities in the biggest passion life holds.
Marriage and motherhood she had known, not as the flowering of love, not as an eager fulfilling
of her natural destiny, but as something extraneous, an avenue of escape from an irksomeness
of living, a weariness with sordid things, which she knew now had obsessed her out of all proportion
to their reality. She had never seen that tenderness glow in the eyes of a mating pair that
she did not envy them, that she did not feel herself hopelessly defrauded of her woman's heritage.

She went up to her room, moody, full of bitterness, and walked the thick-carpeted floor, the
restlessness of her chafing spirit seeking the outlet of action.

"Thank the Lord I've got something to do, something that's worth doing," she whispered savagely.
"If I can't have what I want, I can make my life embrace something more than just food and
clothes and social trifling. If I had to sit and wait for each day to bring what it would,
I believe I'd go clean mad."

A maid interrupted these self-communings to say that some one had called her over the telephone,
and Stella went down to the library. She wasn't prepared for the voice that came over the line,
but she recognized it instantly as Fyfe's.

"Listen, Stella," he said. "I'm sorry this has happened, but I can't very well avoid it now,
without causing comment. I had no choice about coming to Vancouver. It was a business matter
I couldn't neglect. And as luck would have it, Abbey ran into me as I got off the train. On
account of your being there, of course, he insisted that I come out for dinner. It'll look
queer if I don't, as I can't possibly get a return train for the Springs before nine-thirty
this evening. I accepted without stuttering rather than leave any chance for the impression
that I wanted to avoid you. Now, here's how I propose to fix it. I'll come out about two-thirty
and pay a hurry-up five-minute call. Then I'll excuse myself to Mrs. Abbey for inability to
join them at dinner--press of important business takes me to Victoria and so forth. That'll
satisfy the conventions and let us both out. I called you so you won't be taken by surprise.
Do you mind?"

"Of course not," she answered instantly. "Why should I?"

There was a momentary silence.

"Well," he said at last, "I didn't know how you'd feel about it. Anyway, it will only be for
a few minutes, and it's unlikely to happen again."

Stella put the receiver back on the hook and looked at her watch. It lacked a quarter of two.
In the room adjoining, Charlie and Linda were jubilantly wading through the latest "rag" song
in a passable soprano and baritone, with Mrs. Abbey listening in outward resignation. Stella
sat soberly for a minute, then joined them.

"Jack's in town," she informed them placidly, when the ragtime spasm ended. "He telephoned
that he was going to snatch a few minutes between important business confabs to run out and
see me."

"I could have told you that half an hour ago, my dear," Mrs. Abbey responded with playful archness.
"Mr. Fyfe will dine with us this evening."

"Oh," Stella feigned surprise. "Why, he spoke of going to Victoria on the afternoon boat. He
gave me the impression of mad haste--making a dash out here between breaths, as you might say."

"Oh, I hope he won't be called away on such short notice as that," Mrs. Abbey murmured politely.

She left the room presently. Out of one corner of her eye Stella saw Linda looking at her queerly.
Charlie had turned to the window, staring at the blue blur of the Lions across the Inlet.

"It's a wonder Jack would leave the lake," he said suddenly, "with things the way they are.
I've been hoping for rain ever since I've been down. I'll be glad when we're on the spot again,
Linda."

"Wishing for rain?" Stella echoed. "Why?"

"Fire," he said shortly. "I don't suppose you realize it, but there's been practically no rain
for two months. It's getting hot. A few weeks of dry, warm weather, and this whole country
is ready to blow away. The woods are like a pile of shavings. That would be a fine wedding
present--to be cleaned out by fire. Every dollar I've got's in timber."

"Don't be a pessimist," Linda said sharply.

"What makes you so uneasy now?" Stella asked thoughtfully. "There's always the fire danger
in the dry months. That's been a bugaboo ever since I came to the lake."

"Yes, but never like it is this summer," Benton frowned. "Oh, well, no use borrowing trouble,
I suppose."

Stella rose.

"When Jack comes, I'll be in the library," she said. "I'm going to read a while."

But the book she took up lay idle in her lap. She looked forward to that meeting with a curious
mixture of reluctance and regret. She could not face it unmoved. No woman who has ever lain
passive in a man's arms can ever again look into that man's eyes with genuine indifference.
She may hate him or love him with a degree of intensity according to her nature, be merely
friendly, or nurse a slow resentment. But there is always that intangible something which differentiates
him from other men. Stella felt now a shyness of him, a little dread of him, less sureness
of herself, as he swung out of the machine and took the house steps with that effortless lightness
on his feet that she remembered so well.

She heard him in the hall, his deep voice mingling with the thin, penetrating tones of Mrs.
Abbey. And then the library door opened, and he came in. Stella had risen, and stood uncertainly
at one corner of a big reading table, repressing an impulse to fly, finding herself stricken
with a strange recurrence of the feeling she had first disliked him for arousing in her,--a
sense of needing to be on her guard, of impending assertion of a will infinitely more powerful
than her own.

But that was, she told herself, only a state of mind, and Fyfe put her quickly at her ease.
He came up to the table and seated himself on the edge of it an arm's length from her, swinging
one foot free. He looked at her intently. There was no shadow of expression on his face, only
in his clear eyes lurked a gleam of feeling.

"Well, lady," he said at length, "you're looking fine. How goes everything?"

"Fairly well," she answered.

"Seems odd, doesn't it, to meet like this?" he ventured. "I'd have dodged it, if it had been
politic. As it is, there's no harm done, I imagine. Mrs. Abbey assured me we'd be free from
interruption. If the exceedingly cordial dame had an inkling of how things stand between us,
I daresay she'd be holding her breath about now."

"Why do you talk like that, Jack?" Stella protested nervously.

"Well, I have to say something," he remarked, after a moment's reflection. "I can't sit here
and just look at you. That would be rude, not to say embarrassing."

Stella bit her lip.

"I don't see why we can't talk like any other man and woman for a few minutes," she observed.

"I do," he said quietly. "You know why, too, if you stop to think. I'm the same old Jack Fyfe,
Stella. I don't think much where you are concerned; I just feel. And that doesn't lend itself
readily to impersonal chatter."

"How do you feel?" she asked, meeting his gaze squarely. "If you don't hate me, you must at
least rather despise me."

"Neither," he said slowly. "I admire your grit, lady. You broke away from everything and made
a fresh start. You asserted your own individuality in a fashion that rather surprised me. Maybe
the incentive wasn't what it might have been, but the result is, or promises to be. I was only
a milestone. Why should I hate or despise you because you recognized that and passed on? I
had no business setting myself up for the end of your road instead of the beginning. I meant
to have it that way until the kid--well, Fate took a hand there. Pshaw," he broke off with
a quick gesture, "let's talk about something else."

Stella laid one hand on his knee. Unbidden tears were crowding up in her gray eyes.

"You were good to me," she whispered. "But just being good wasn't enough for a perverse creature
like me. I couldn't be a sleek pussy-cat, comfortable beside your fire. I'm full of queer longings.
I want wings. I must be a variation from the normal type of woman. Our marriage didn't touch
the real me at all, Jack. It only scratched the surface. And sometimes I'm afraid to look deep,
for fear of what I'll see. Even if another man hadn't come along and stirred up a temporary
tumult in me, I couldn't have gone on forever."

"A temporary tumult," Fyfe mused. "Have you thoroughly chucked that illusion? I knew you would,
of course, but I had no idea how long it would take you."

"Long ago," she answered. "Even before I left you, I was shaky about that. There were things
I couldn't reconcile. But pride wouldn't let me admit it. I can't even explain it to myself."

"I can," he said, a little sadly. "You've never poured out that big, warm heart of yours on
a man. It's there, always has been there, those concentrated essences of passion. Every unattached
man's a possible factor, a potential lover. Nature has her own devices to gain her end. I couldn't
be the one. We started wrong. I saw the mistake of that when it was too late. Monohan, a highly
magnetic animal, came along at a time when you were peculiarly and rather blindly receptive.
That's all. Sex--you have it in a word. It couldn't stand any stress, that sort of attraction.
I knew it would only last until you got one illuminating glimpse of the real man of him. But
I don't want to talk about him. He'll keep. Sometime you'll really love a man, Stella, and
he'll be a very lucky mortal. There's an erratic streak in you, lady, but there's a bigger
streak that's fine and good and true. You'd have gone through with it to the bitter end, if
Jack Junior hadn't died. The weaklings don't do that. Neither do they cut loose as you did,
burning all their economic bridges behind them. Do you know that it was over a month before
I found out that you'd turned your private balance back into my account? I suppose there was
a keen personal satisfaction in going on your own and making good from the start. Only I couldn't
rest until--until--"

His voice trailed huskily off into silence. The gloves in his left hand were doubled and twisted
in his uneasy fingers. Stella's eyes were blurred.

"Well, I'm going," he said shortly. "Be good."

He slipped off the table and stood erect, a wide, deep-chested man, tanned brown, his fair
hair with its bronze tinge lying back in a smooth wave from his forehead, blue eyes bent on
her, hot with a slumbering fire.

Without warning, he caught her close in his arms so that she could feel the pounding of his
heart against her breast, kissed her cheeks, her hair, the round, firm white neck of her, with
lips that burned. Then he held her off at arm's length.

"That's how I care," he said defiantly. "That's how I want you. No other way. I'm a one-woman
man. Some time you may love like that, and if you do, you'll know how I feel. I've watched
you sleeping beside me and ached because I couldn't kindle the faintest glow of the real thing
in you. I'm sick with a miserable sense of failure, the only thing I've ever failed at, and
the biggest, most complete failure I can conceive of,--to love a woman in every way desirable;
to have her and yet never have her."

He caught up his hat, and the door clicked shut behind him. A minute later Stella saw him step
into the tonneau of the car. He never looked back.

And she fled to her own room, stunned, half-frightened, wholly amazed at this outburst. Her
face was damp with his lip-pressure, damp and warm. Her arms tingled with the grip of his.
The blood stood in her cheeks like a danger signal, flooding in hot, successive waves to the
roots of her thick, brown hair.

"If I thought--I could," she whispered into her pillow, "I'd try. But I daren't. I'm afraid.
It's just a mood, I know it is. I've had it before. A--ah! I'm a spineless jellyfish, a weathercock
that whirls to every emotional breeze. And I won't be. I'll stand on my own feet if I can--so
help me God, I will!"

CHAPTER XXII

THE FIRE BEHIND THE SMOKE

This is no intimate chronicle of Charlie Benton and Linda Abbey, save in so far as they naturally
furnish a logical sequence in what transpired. Therefore the details of their nuptials is of
no particular concern. They were wedded, ceremonially dined as befitted the occasion, and departed
upon their hypothetical honeymoon, surreptitiously abbreviated from an extravagant swing over
half of North America to seventy miles by rail and twenty by water,--and a month of blissful
seclusion, which suited those two far better than any amount of Pullman touring, besides leaving
them money in pocket.

When they were gone, Stella caught the next boat for Seattle. She had drawn fresh breath in
the meantime, and while she felt tenderly, almost maternally, sorry for Jack Fyfe, she swung
back to the old attitude. Even granting, she argued, that she could muster courage to take
up the mantle of wifehood where she laid it off, there was no surety that they could do more
than compromise. There was the stubborn fact that she had openly declared her love for another
man, that by her act she had plunged her husband into far-reaching conflict. Such a conflict
existed. She could put her finger on no concrete facts, but it was in the air. She heard whispers
of a battle between giants--a financial duel to the death--with all the odds against Jack Fyfe.

Win or lose, there would be scars. And the struggle, if not of and by her deed, had at least
sprung into malevolent activity through her. Men, she told herself, do not forget these things;
they rankle. Jack Fyfe was only human. No, Stella felt that they could only come safe to the
old port by virtue of a passion that could match Fyfe's own. And she put that rather sadly
beyond her, beyond the possibilities. She had felt stirrings of it, but not to endure. She
was proud and sensitive and growing wise with bitterly accumulated experience. It had to be
all or nothing with them, a cleaving together complete enough to erase and forever obliterate
all that had gone before. And since she could not see that as a possibility, there was nothing
to do but play the game according to the cards she held. Of these the trump was work, the inner
glow that comes of something worth while done toward a definite, purposeful end. She took up
her singing again with a distinct relief.

Time passed quickly and uneventfully enough between the wedding day and the date of her Granada
engagement. It seemed a mere breathing space before the middle of July rolled around, and she
was once more aboard a Vancouver boat. In the interim, she had received a letter from the attorney
who had wound up her father's estate, intimating that there was now a market demand for that
oil stock, and asking if he should sell or hold for a rise in price which seemed reasonably
sure? Stella telegraphed her answer. If that left-over of a speculative period would bring
a few hundred dollars, it would never be of greater service to her than now.

All the upper reach of Puget Sound basked in its normal midsummer haze, the day Stella started
for Vancouver. That great region of island-dotted sea spread between the rugged Olympics and
the foot of the Coast range lay bathed in summer sun, untroubled, somnolent. But nearing the
international boundary, the Charlotte drove her twenty-knot way into a thickening atmosphere.
Northward from Victoria, the rugged shores that line those inland waterways began to appear
blurred. Just north of Active Pass, where the steamers take to the open gulf again, a vast
bank of smoke flung up blue and gray, a rolling mass. The air was pungent, oppressive. When
the Charlotte spanned the thirty-mile gap between Vancouver Island and the mainland shore,
she nosed into the Lion's Gate under a slow bell, through a smoke pall thick as Bering fog.
Stella's recollection swung back to Charlie's uneasy growl of a month earlier. Fire! Throughout
the midsummer season there was always the danger of fire breaking out in the woods. Not all
the fire-ranger patrols could guard against the carelessness of fishermen and campers.

"It's a tough Summer over here for the timber owners," she heard a man remark. "I've been twenty
years on the coast and never saw the woods so dry."

"Dry's no name," his neighbor responded. "It's like tinder. A cigarette stub'll start a blaze
forty men couldn't put out. It's me that knows it. I've got four limits on the North Arm, and
there's fire on two sides of me. You bet I'm praying for rain."

"They say the country between Chehalis and Roaring Lake is one big blaze," the first man observed.

"So?" the other replied. "Pity, too. Fine timber in there. I came near buying some timber on
the lake this spring. Some stuff that was on the market as a result of that Abbey-Monohan split.
Glad I didn't now. I'd just as soon have all my money out of timber this season."

They moved away in the press of disembarking, and Stella heard no more of their talk. She took
a taxi to the Granada, and she bought a paper in the foyer before she followed the bell boy
to her room. She had scarcely taken off her hat and settled down to read when the telephone
rang. Linda's voice greeted her when she answered.

"I called on the chance that you took the morning boat," Linda said. "Can I run in? I'm just
down for the day. I won't be able to hear you sing, but I'd like to see you, dear."

"Can you come right now?" Stella asked. "Come up, and we'll have something served up here.
I don't feel like running the gauntlet of the dining room just now."

"I'll be there in a few minutes," Linda answered.

Stella went back to her paper. She hadn't noticed any particular stress laid on forest fires
in the Seattle dailies, but she could not say that of this Vancouver sheet. The front page
reeked of smoke and fire. She glanced through the various items for news of Roaring Lake, but
found only a brief mention. It was "reported" and "asserted" and "rumored" that fire was raging
at one or two points there, statements that were overshadowed by positive knowledge of greater
areas nearer at hand burning with a fierceness that could be seen and smelled. The local papers
had enough feature stuff in fires that threatened the very suburbs of Vancouver without going
so far afield as Roaring Lake.

Linda's entrance put a stop to her reading, without, however, changing the direction of her
thought. For after an exchange of greetings, Linda divulged the source of her worried expression,
which Stella had immediately remarked.

"Who wouldn't be worried," Linda said, "with the whole country on fire, and no telling when
it may break out in some unexpected place and wipe one out of house and home."

"Is it so bad as that at the lake?" Stella asked uneasily. "There's not much in the paper.
I was looking."

"It's so bad," Linda returned, with a touch of bitterness, "that I've been driven to the Springs
for safety; that every able-bodied man on the lake who can be spared is fighting fire. There
has been one man killed, and there's half a dozen loggers in the hospital, suffering from burns
and other hurts. Nobody knows where it will stop. Charlie's limits have barely been scorched,
but there's fire all along one side of them. A change of wind--and there you are. Jack Fyfe's
timber is burning in a dozen places. We've been praying for rain and choking in the smoke for
a week."

Stella looked out the north window. From the ten-story height she could see ships lying in
the stream, vague hulks in the smoky pall that shrouded the harbor.

"I'm sorry," she whispered.

"It's devilish," Linda went on. "Like groping in the dark and being afraid--for me. I've been
married a month, and for ten days I've only seen my husband at brief intervals when he comes
down in the launch for supplies, or to bring an injured man. And he doesn't tell me anything
except that we stand a fat chance of losing everything. I sit there at the Springs, and look
at that smoke wall hanging over the water, and wonder what goes on up there. And at night there's
the red glow, very faint and far. That's all. I've been doing nursing at the hospital to help
out and to keep from brooding. I wouldn't be down here now, only for a list of things the doctor
needs, which he thought could be obtained quicker if some one attended to it personally. I'm
taking the evening train back."

"I'm sorry," Stella repeated.

She said it rather mechanically. Her mind was spinning a thread, upon which, strung like beads,
slid all the manifold succession of things that had happened since she came first to Roaring
Lake. Linda's voice, continuing, broke into her thoughts.

"I suppose I shouldn't be croaking into your ear like a bird of ill omen, when you have to
throw yourself heart and soul into that concert to-morrow," she said contritely. "I wonder
why that Ancient Mariner way of seeking relief from one's troubles by pouring them into another
ear is such a universal trait? You aren't vitally concerned, after all, and I am. Let's have
that tea, dear, and talk about less grievous things. I still have one or two trifles to get
in the shops too."

After they had finished the food that Stella ordered sent up, they went out together. Later
Stella saw her off on the train.

"Good-by, dear," Linda said from the coach window. "I'm just selfish enough to wish you were
going back with me; I wish you could sit with me on the bank of the lake, aching and longing
for your man up there in the smoke as I ache and long for mine. Misery loves company."

Stella's eyes were clouded as the train pulled out. Something in Linda Benton's parting words
made her acutely lonely, dispirited, out of joint with the world she was deliberately fashioning
for herself. Into Linda's life something big and elemental had come. The butterfly of yesterday
had become the strong man's mate of to-day. Linda's heart was unequivocally up there in the
smoke and flame with her man, fighting for their mutual possessions, hoping with him, fearing
for him, longing for him, secure in the knowledge that if nothing else was left them, they
had each other. It was a rare and beautiful thing to feel like that. And beyond that sorrowful
vision of what she lacked to achieve any real and enduring happiness, there loomed also a self-torturing
conviction that she herself had set in motion those forces which now threatened ruin for her
brother and Jack Fyfe.

There was no logical proof of this. Only intuitive, subtle suggestions gleaned here and there,
shadowy finger-posts which pointed to Monohan as a deadly hater and with a score chalked up
against Fyfe to which she had unconsciously added. He had desired her, and twice Fyfe had treated
him like an urchin caught in mischief. She recalled how Monohan sprang at him like a tiger
that day on the lake shore. She realized how bitter a humiliation it must have been to suffer
that sardonic cuffing at Fyfe's hands. Monohan wasn't the type of man who would ever forget
or forgive either that or the terrible grip on his throat.

Even at the time she had sensed this and dreaded what it might ultimately lead to. Even while
her being answered eagerly to the physical charm of him, she had fought against admitting to
herself what desperate intent might have lain back of the killing of Billy Dale,--a shot that
Lefty Howe declared was meant for Fyfe. She had long outgrown Monohan's lure, but if he had
come to her or written to make out a case for himself when she first went to Seattle, she would
have accepted his word against anything. Her heart would have fought for him against the logic
of her brain.

But--she had had a long time to think, to compare, to digest all that she knew of him, much
that was subconscious impression rising late to the surface, a little that she heard from various
sources. The sum total gave her a man of rank passions, of rare and merciless finesse where
his desires figured, a man who got what he wanted by whatever means most fitly served his need.
Greater than any craving to possess a woman would be the measure of his rancor against a man
who humiliated him, thwarted him. She could understand how a man like Monohan would hate a
man like Jack Fyfe, would nurse and feed on the venom of his hate until setting a torch to
Fyfe's timber would be a likely enough counterstroke.

She shrank from the thought. Yet it lingered until she felt guilty. Though it made no material
difference to her that Fyfe might or might not face ruin, she could not, before her own conscience,
evade responsibility. The powder might have been laid, but her folly had touched spark to the
fuse, as she saw it. That seared her like a pain far into the night. For every crime a punishment;
for every sin a penance. Her world had taught her that. She had never danced; she had only
listened to the piper and longed to dance, as nature had fashioned her to do. But the piper
was sending his bill. She surveyed it wearily, emotionally bankrupt, wondering in what coin
of the soul she would have to pay.

CHAPTER XXIII

A RIDE BY NIGHT

Stella sang in the gilt ballroom of the Granada next afternoon, behind the footlights of a
miniature stage, with the blinds drawn and a few hundred of Vancouver's social elect critically,
expectantly listening. She sang her way straight into the heart of that audience with her opening
number. This was on Wednesday. Friday she sang again, and Saturday afternoon.

When she came back to her room after that last concert, wearied with the effort of listening
to chattering women and playing the gracious lady to an admiring contingent which insisted
upon making her last appearance a social triumph, she found a letter forwarded from Seattle.
She slit the envelope. A typewritten sheet enfolded a green slip,--a check. She looked at the
figures, scarcely comprehending until she read the letter.

    "We take pleasure in handing you herewith," Mr. Lander wrote for the
    firm, "our check for nineteen thousand five hundred dollars,
    proceeds of oil stock sold as per your telegraphed instructions,
    less brokerage charges. We sold same at par, and trust this will be
    satisfactory."

She looked at the check again. Nineteen thousand, five hundred--payable to her order. Two years
ago such a sum would have lifted her to plutocratic heights, filled her with pleasurable excitement,
innumerable anticipations. Now it stirred her less than the three hundred dollars she had just
received from the Granada Concert committee. She had earned that, had given for it due measure
of herself. This other had come without effort, without expectation. And less than she had
ever needed money before did she now require such a sum.

Yet she was sensibly aware that this windfall meant a short cut to things which she had only
looked to attain by plodding over economic hills. She could say good-by to singing in photoplay
houses, to vaudeville engagements, to concert work in provincial towns. She could hitch her
wagon to a star and go straight up the avenue that led to a career, if it were in her to achieve
greatness. Pleasant dreams in which the buoyant ego soared, until the logical interpretation
of her ambitions brought her to a more practical consideration of ways and means, and that
in turn confronted her with the fact that she could leave the Pacific coast to-morrow morning
if she so chose.

Why should she not so choose?

She was her own mistress, free as the wind. Fyfe had said that. She looked out into the smoky
veil that shrouded the water front and the hills across the Inlet, that swirled and eddied
above the giant fir in Stanley Park, and her mind flicked back to Roaring Lake where the Red
Flower of Kipling's Jungle Book bloomed to her husband's ruin. Did it? She wondered. She could
not think of him as beaten, bested in any undertaking. She had never been able to think of
him in those terms. Always to her he had conveyed the impression of a superman. Always she
had been a little in awe of him, of his strength, his patient, inflexible determination, glimpsing
under his habitual repression certain tremendous forces. She could not conceive him as a broken
man.

Staring out into the smoky air, she wondered if the fires at Roaring Lake still ravaged that
noble forest; if Fyfe's resources, like her brother's, were wholly involved in standing timber,
and if that timber were doomed? She craved to know. Secured herself by that green slip in her
hand against every possible need, she wondered if it were ordained that the two men whose possession
of material resources had molded her into what she was to-day should lose all, be reduced to
the same stress that had made her an unwilling drudge in her brother's kitchen. Then she recalled
that for Charlie there was an equivalent sum due,--a share like her own. At the worst, he had
the nucleus of another fortune.

Curled among the pillows of her bed that night, she looked over the evening papers, read with
a swift heart-sinking that the Roaring Lake fire was assuming terrific proportions, that nothing
but a deluge of rain would stay it now. And more significantly, except for a minor blaze or
two, the fire raged almost wholly upon and around the Fyfe block of limits. She laid aside
the papers, switched off the lights, and lay staring wide-eyed at the dusky ceiling.

At twenty minutes of midnight she was called to the door of her room to receive a telegram.
It was from Linda, and it read:

    "Charlie badly hurt. Can you come?"

Stella reached for the telephone receiver. The night clerk at the C.P.R. depot told her the
first train she could take left at six in the morning. That meant reaching the Springs at nine-thirty.
Nine and a half hours to sit with idle hands, in suspense. She did not knew what tragic dénouement
awaited there, what she could do once she reached there. She knew only that a fever of impatience
burned in her. The message had strung her suddenly taut, as if a crisis had arisen in which
willy-nilly she must take a hand.

So, groping for the relief of action, some method of spanning that nine hours' wait, her eye
fell upon a card tucked beside the telephone case. She held it between, finger and thumb, her
brows puckered.

    TAXIS AND TOURING CARS
    Anywhere . . . Anytime

She took down the receiver again and asked for Seymour 9X.

"Western Taxi," a man's voice drawled.

"I want to reach Roaring Hot Springs in the shortest time possible," she told him rather breathlessly.
"Can you furnish me a machine and a reliable chauffeur?"

"Roaring Springs?" he repeated. "How many passengers?"

"One. Myself."

"Just a minute."

She heard a faint burble of talk away at the other end of the wire. Then the same voice speaking
crisply.

"We gotta big six roadster, and a first-class driver. It'll cost you seventy-five dollars--in
advance."

"Your money will be waiting for you here," she answered calmly. "How soon can you bring the
car around to the Hotel Granada?"

"In ten minutes, if you say so."

"Say twenty minutes, then."

"All right."

She dressed herself, took the elevator down to the lobby, instructed the night clerk to have
a maid pack her trunk and send it by express to Hopyard, care of St. Allwoods Hotel on the
lake. Then she walked out to the broad-stepped carriage entrance.

A low-hung long-hooded, yellow car stood there, exhaust purring faintly. She paid the driver,
sank into the soft upholstering beside him, and the big six slid out into the street. There
was no traffic. In a few minutes they were on the outskirts of the city, the long asphalt ribbon
of King's Way lying like a silver band between green, bushy walls. They crossed the last car
track. The driver spoke to her out of one corner of his mouth.

"Wanna make time, huh?"

"I want to get to Roaring Lake as quickly as you can drive, without taking chances."

"I know the road pretty well," he assured her. "Drove a party clear to Rosebud day before yesterday.
I'll do the best I can. Can't drive too fast at night. Too smoky."

She could not gage his conception of real speed if the gait he struck was not "too fast." They
were through New Westminster and rolling across the Fraser bridge before she was well settled
in the seat, breasting the road with a lurch and a swing at the curves, a noise under that
long hood like giant bees in an empty barrel.

Ninety miles of road good, bad and indifferent, forest and farm and rolling hill, and the swamps
of Sumas Prairie, lies between Vancouver and Roaring Lake. At four in the morning, with dawn
an hour old, they woke the Rosebud ferryman to cross the river. Twenty minutes after that Stella
was stepping stiffly out of the machine before Roaring Springs hospital. The doctor's Chinaman
was abroad in the garden. She beckoned him.

"You sabe Mr. Benton--Charlie Benton?" she asked. "He in doctor's house?"

The Chinaman pointed across the road. "Mist Bentle obah dah," he said. "Velly much sick. Missa
Bentle lib dah, all same gleen house."

Stella ran across the way. The front door of the green cottage stood wide. An electric drop
light burned in the front room, though it was broad day. When she crossed the threshold, she
saw Linda sitting in a chair, her arms folded on the table-edge, her head resting on her hands.
She was asleep, and she did not raise her head till Stella shook her shoulder.

Linda Abbey had been a pretty girl, very fair, with apple-blossom skin and a wonderfully expressive
face. It gave Stella a shock to see her now, to gage her suffering by the havoc it had wrought.
Linda looked old, haggard, drawn. There was a weary droop to her mouth, her eyes were dull,
lifeless, just as one might look who is utterly exhausted in mind and body. Oddly enough, she
spoke first of something irrelevant, inconsequential.

"I fell asleep," she said heavily. "What time is it?"

Stella looked at her watch.

"Half-past four," she answered. "How is Charlie? What happened to him?"

"Monohan shot him."

Stella caught her breath. She hadn't been prepared for that.

"Is he--is he--" she could not utter the words.

"He'll get better. Wait." Linda rose stiffly from her seat. A door in one side of the room
stood ajar. She opened it, and Stella, looking over her shoulder, saw her brother's tousled
head on a pillow. A nurse in uniform sat beside his bed. Linda closed the door silently.

"Come into the kitchen where we won't make a noise," she whispered.

A fire burned in the kitchen stove. Linda sank into a willow rocker.

"I'm weary as Atlas," she said. "I've been fretting for so long. Then late yesterday afternoon
they brought him home to me--like that. The doctor was probing for the bullet when I wired
you. I was in a panic then, I think. Half-past four! How did you get here so soon? How could
you? There's no train."

Stella told her.

"Why should Monohan shoot him?" she broke out. "For God's sake, talk, Linda!"

There was a curious impersonality in Linda's manner, as if she stood aloof from it all, as
if the fire of her vitality had burned out. She lay back in her chair with eyelids drooping,
speaking in dull, lifeless tones.

"Monohan shot him because Charlie came on him in the woods setting a fresh fire. They've suspected
him, or some one in his pay, of that, and they've been watching. There were two other men with
Charlie, so there is no mistake. Monohan got away. That's all I know. Oh, but I'm tired. I've
been hanging on to myself for so long. About daylight, after we knew for sure that Charlie
was over the hill, something seemed to let go in me. I'm awful glad you came, Stella. Can you
make a cup of tea?"

Stella could and did, but she drank none of it herself. A dead weight of apprehension lay like
lead in her breast. Her conscience pointed a deadly finger. First Billy Dale, now her brother,
and, sandwiched in between, the loosed fire furies which were taking toll in bodily injury
and ruinous loss.

Yet she was helpless. The matter was wholly out of her hands, and she stood aghast before it,
much as the small child stands aghast before the burning house he has fired by accident.

Fyfe next. That was the ultimate, the culmination, which would leave her forever transfixed
with remorseful horror. The fact that already the machinery of the law which would eventually
bring Monohan to book for the double lawlessness of arson and attempted homicide must be in
motion, that the Provincial police would be hard on his trail, did not occur to her. She could
only visualize him progressing step by step from one lawless deed to another. And in her mind
every step led to Jack Fyfe, who had made a mock of him. She found her hands clenching till
the nails dug deep.

Linda's head drooped over the teacup. Her eyelids blinked.

"Dear," Stella said tenderly, "come and lie down. You're worn out."

"Perhaps I'd better," Linda muttered. "There's another room in there."

Stella tucked the weary girl into the bed, and went back to the kitchen, and sat down in the
willow rocker. After another hour the nurse came out and prepared her own breakfast. Benton
was still sleeping. He was in no danger, the nurse told Stella. The bullet had driven cleanly
through his body, missing as by a miracle any vital part, and lodged in the muscles of his
back, whence the surgeon had removed it. Though weak from shock, loss of blood, excitement,
he had rallied splendidly, and fallen into a normal sleep.

Later the doctor confirmed this. He made light of the wound. One couldn't kill a young man
as full of vitality as Charlie Benton with an axe, he informed Stella with an optimistic smile.
Which lifted one burden from her mind.

The night nurse went away, and another from the hospital took her place. Benton slept; Linda
slept. The house was very quiet. To Stella, brooding in that kitchen chair, it became oppressive,
that funeral hush. When it was drawing near ten o'clock, she walked up the road past the corner
store and post-office, and so out to the end of the wharf.

The air was hot and heavy, pungent, gray with the smoke. Farther along, St. Allwoods bulked
mistily amid its grounds. The crescent of shore line half a mile distant was wholly obscured.
Up over the eastern mountain range the sun, high above the murk, hung like a bloody orange,
rayless and round. No hotel guests strolled by pairs and groups along the bank. She could understand
that no one would come for pleasure into that suffocating atmosphere. Caught in that great
bowl of which the lake formed the watery bottom, the smoke eddied and rolled like a cloud of mist.

She stood a while gazing at the glassy surface of the lake where it spread to her vision a
little way beyond the piles. Then she went back to the green cottage.

Benton lifted alert, recognizing eyes when she peeped in the bedroom door.

"Hello, Sis," he greeted in strangely subdued tones. "When did you blow in? I thought you'd
deserted the sinking ship completely. Come on in."

She winced inwardly at his words, but made no outward sign, as she came up to his bedside.
The nurse went out.

"Perhaps you'd better not talk?" she said.

"Oh, nonsense," he retorted feebly. "I'm all right. Sore as the mischief and weak. But I don't
feel as bad as I might. Linda still asleep?"

"I think so," Stella answered.

"Poor kid," he breathed; "it's been tough on her. Well, I guess it's been tough on everybody.
He turned out to be some bad actor, this Monohan party. I never did like the beggar. He was
a little too high-handed in his smooth, kid-glove way. But I didn't suppose he'd try to burn
up a million dollars' worth of timber to satisfy a grudge. Well, he put his foot in it proper
at last. He'll get a good long jolt in the pen, if the boys don't beat the constables to him
and take him to pieces."

"He did start the fire then?" Stella muttered.

"I guess so," Benton replied. "At any rate, he kept it going. Did it by his lonesome, too.
Jack suspected that. We were watching for him as well as fighting fire. He'd come down from
the head of the lake in that speed boat of his, and this time daylight caught him before he
could get back to where he had her cached, after starting a string of little fires in the edge
of my north limit. He had it in for me, too, you know; I batted him over the head with a pike-pole
here at the wharf one day this spring, so he plunked me as soon as I hollered at him. I wish
he'd done it earlier in the game. We might have saved a lot of good timber. As it was, we couldn't
do much. Every time the wind changed, it would break out in a new place--too often to be accidental.
Damn him!"

"How is it going to end, the fire?" Stella forced herself to ask. "Will you and Jack be able
to save any timber?"

"If it should rain hard, and if in the meantime the boys keep it from jumping the fire-trails
we've cut, I'll get by with most of mine," he said. "But Jack's done for. He won't have anything
but his donkeys and gear and part of a cedar limit on the Tyee which isn't paid for. He had
practically everything tied up in that big block of timber around the Point. Monohan made him
spend money like water to hold his own. Jack's broke."

Stella's head drooped. Benton reached out an axe-calloused hand, all grimy and browned from
the stress of fire fighting, and covered her soft fingers that rested on his bed.

"It's a pity everything's gone to pot like that, Stell," he said softly. "I've grown a lot
wiser in human ways the last two years. You taught me a lot, and Jack a lot, and Linda the
rest. It seems a blamed shame you and Jack came to a fork in the road. Oh, he never chirped.
I've just guessed it the last few weeks. I owe him a lot that he'll never let me pay back in
anything but good will. I hate to see him get the worst of it from every direction. He grins
and doesn't say anything. But I know it hurts. There can't be anything much wrong between you
two. Why don't you forget your petty larceny troubles and start all over again?"

"I can't," she whispered. "It wouldn't work. There's too many scars. Too much that's hard to
forget."

"Well, you know about that better than I do," Benton said thoughtfully. "It all depends on
how you feel."

The poignant truth of that struck miserably home to her. It was not a matter of reason or logic,
of her making any sacrifice for her conscience sake. It depended solely upon the existence
of an emotion she could not definitely invoke. She was torn by so many emotions, not one of
which she could be sure was the vital, the necessary one. Her heart did not cry out for Jack
Fyfe, except in a pitying tenderness, as she used to feel for Jack Junior when he bumped and
bruised himself. She had felt that before and held it too weak a crutch to lean upon.

The nurse came in with a cup of broth for Benton, and Stella went away with a dumb ache in
her breast, a leaden sinking of her spirits, and went out to sit on the porch steps. The minutes
piled into hours, and noon came, when Linda wakened. Stella forced herself to swallow a cup
of tea, to eat food; then she left Linda sitting with her husband and went back to the porch
steps again.

As she sat there, a man dressed in the blue shirt and mackinaw trousers and high, calked boots
of the logger turned in off the road, a burly woodsman that she recognized as one of Jack Fyfe's
crew.

"Well," said he, "if it ain't Mrs. Jack. Say--ah--"

He broke off suddenly, a perplexed look on his face, an uneasiness, a hesitation in his manner.

"What is it, Barlow?" Stella asked kindly. "How is everything up the lake?"

It was common enough in her experience, that temporary embarrassment of a logger before her.
She knew them for men with boyish souls, boyish instincts, rude simplicities of heart. Long
ago she had revised those first superficial estimates of them as gross, hulking brutes who
worked hard and drank harder, coarsened and calloused by their occupation. They had their weaknesses,
but their virtues of abiding loyalty, their reckless generosity, their simple directness, were
great indeed. They took their lives in their hands on skid-road and spring-board, that such
as she might flourish. They did not understand that, but she did.

"What is it, Barlow?" she repeated. "Have you just come down the lake?"

"Yes'm," he answered. "Say, Jack don't happen to be here, does he?"

"No, he hasn't been here," she told him.

The man's face fell.

"What's wrong?" Stella demanded. She had a swift divination that something was wrong.

"Oh, I dunno's anythin's wrong, particular," Barlow replied. "Only--well, Lefty he sent me
down to see if Jack was at the Springs. We ain't seen him for a couple uh days."

Her pulse quickened.

"And he has not come down the lake?"

"I guess not," the logger said. "Oh, I guess it's all right. Jack's pretty skookum in the woods.
Only Lefty got uneasy. It's desperate hot and smoky up there."

"How did you come down? Are you going back soon?" she asked abruptly.

"I got the Waterbug," Barlow told her. "I'm goin' right straight back."

Stella looked out over the smoky lake and back at the logger again, a sudden resolution born
of intolerable uncertainty, of a feeling that she could only characterize as fear, sprang full-fledged
into her mind. "Wait for me," she said. "I'm going with you."

CHAPTER XXIV

"OUT OF THE NIGHT THAT COVERS ME"

The Waterbug limped. Her engine misfired continuously, and Barlow lacked the mechanical knowledge
to remedy its ailment. He was satisfied to let it pound away, so long as it would revolve at
all. So the boat moved slowly through that encompassing smoke at less than half speed. Outwardly
the once spick and span cruiser bore every mark of hard usage. Her topsides were foul, her
decks splintered by the tramping of calked boots, grimy with soot and cinders. It seemed to
Stella that everything and every one on and about Roaring Lake bore some mark of that holocaust
raging in the timber, as if the fire were some malignant disease menacing and marring all that
it affected, and affecting all that trafficked within its smoky radius.

But of the fire itself she could see nothing, even when late in the afternoon they drew in
to the bay before her brother's camp. A heavier smoke cloud, more pungent of burning pitch,
blanketed the shores, lifted in blue, rolling masses farther back. A greater heat made the
air stifling, causing the eyes to smart and grow watery. That was the only difference.

Barlow laid the Waterbug alongside the float. He had already told her that Lefty Howe, with
the greater part of Fyfe's crew, was extending and guarding Benton's fire-trail, and he half
expected that Fyfe might have turned up there. Away back in the smoke arose spasmodic coughing
of donkey engines, dull resounding of axe-blades. Barlow led the way. They traversed a few
hundred yards of path through brush, broken tops, and stumps, coming at last into a fairway
cut through virgin timber, a sixty-foot strip denuded of every growth, great firs felled and
drawn far aside, brush piled and burned. A breastwork from which to fight advancing fire, it
ran away into the heart of a smoky forest. Here and there blackened, fire-scorched patches
abutted upon its northern flank, stumps of great trees smoldering, crackling yet. At the first
such place, half a dozen men were busy with shovels blotting out streaks of fire that crept
along in the dry leaf mold. No, they had not seen Fyfe. But they had been blamed busy. He might
be up above.

Half a mile beyond that, beside the first donkey shuddering on its anchored skids as it tore
an eighteen-inch cedar out by the roots, they came on Lefty Howe. He shook his head when Stella
asked for Fyfe.

"He took twenty men around to the main camp day before yesterday," said Lefty. "There was a
piece uh timber beyond that he thought he could save. I--well, I took a shoot around there
yesterday, after your brother got hurt. Jack wasn't there. Most of the boys was at camp loadin'
gear on the scows. They said Jack's gone around to Tumblin' Creek with one man. He wasn't back
this mornin'. So I thought maybe he'd gone to the Springs. I dunno's there's any occasion to
worry. He might 'a' gone to the head uh the lake with them constables that went up last night.
How's Charlie Benton?"

She told him briefly.

"That's good," said Lefty. "Now, I'd go around to Cougar Bay, if I was you, Mrs. Jack. He's
liable to come in there, any time. You could stay at the house to-night. Everything around
there, shacks 'n' all, was burned days ago, so the fire can't touch the house. The crew there
has grub an' a cook. I kinda expect Jack'll be there, unless he fell in with them constables."

She trudged silently back to the Waterbug. Barlow started the engine, and the boat took up
her slow way. As they skirted the shore, Stella began to see here and there the fierce havoc
of the fire. Black trunks of fir reared nakedly to the smoky sky, lay crisscross on bank and
beach. Nowhere was there a green blade, a living bush. Nothing but charred black, a melancholy
waste of smoking litter, with here and there a pitch-soaked stub still waving its banner of
flame, or glowing redly. Back of those seared skeletons a shifting cloud of smoke obscured
everything.

Presently they drew in to Cougar Bay. Men moved about on the beach; two bulky scows stood nose-on
to the shore. Upon them rested half a dozen donkey engines, thick-bellied, upright machines,
blown down, dead on their skids. About these in great coils lay piled the gear of logging,
miles of steel cable, blocks, the varied tools of the logger's trade. The Panther lay between
the scows, with lines from each passed over her towing bitts.

Stella could see the outline of the white bungalow on its grassy knoll. They had saved only
that, of all the camp, by a fight that sent three men to the hospital, on a day when the wind
shifted into the northwest and sent a sheet of flame rolling through the timber and down on
Cougar Bay like a tidal wave. So Barlow told her. He cupped his hands now and called to his
fellows on the beach.

No, Fyfe had not come back yet.

"Go up to the mouth of Tumbling Creek," Stella ordered.

Barlow swung the Waterbug about, cleared the point, and stood up along the shore. Stella sat
on a cushioned seat at the back of the pilot house, hard-eyed, struggling against that dead
weight that seemed, to grow and grow in her breast. That elemental fury raging in the woods
made her shrink. Her own hand had helped to loose it, but her hands were powerless to stay
it; she could only sit and watch and wait, eaten up with misery of her own making. She was
horribly afraid, with a fear she would not name to herself.

Behind that density of atmosphere, the sun had gone to rest. The first shadows of dusk were
closing in, betokened by a thickening of the smoke-fog into which the Waterbug slowly plowed.
To port a dimming shore line; to starboard, aft, and dead ahead, water and air merged in two
boat lengths. Barlow leaned through the pilot-house window, one hand on the wheel, straining
his eyes on their course. Suddenly he threw out the clutch, shut down his throttle control
with one hand, and yanked with the other at the cord which loosed the Waterbug's shrill whistle.

Dead ahead, almost upon them, came an answering toot.

"I thought I heard a gas-boat," Barlow exclaimed. "Sufferin' Jerusalem! Hi, there!"

He threw his weight on the wheel, sending it hard over. The cruiser still had way on; the momentum
of her ten-ton weight scarcely had slackened, and she answered the helm. Out of the deceptive
thickness ahead loomed the sharp, flaring bow of another forty-footer, sheering quickly, as
her pilot sighted them. She was upon them, and abreast, and gone, with a watery purl of her
bow wave, a subdued mutter of exhaust, passing so near than an active man could have leaped
the space between.

"Sufferin' Jerusalem!" Barlow repeated, turning to Stella. "Did you see that, Mrs. Jack? They
got him."

Stella nodded. She too had seen Monohan seated on the after deck, his head sunk on his breast,
irons on his wrists. A glimpse, no more.

"That'll help some," Barlow grunted. "Quick work. But they come blame near cuttin' us down,
beltin' along at ten knots when you can't see forty feet ahead."

An empty beach greeted them at Tumbling Creek. Reluctantly Stella bade Barlow turn back. It
would soon be dark, and Barlow said he would be taking chances of piling on the shore before
he could see it, or getting lost in the profound black that would shut down on the water with
daylight's end.

Less than a mile from Cougar Bay, the Waterbug's engine gave a few premonitory gasps and died.
Barlow descended to the engine room, hooked up the trouble lamp, and sought for the cause.
He could not find it. Stella could hear him muttering profanity, turning the flywheel over,
getting an occasional explosion.

An hour passed. Dark of the Pit descended, shrouding the lake with a sable curtain, close-folded,
impenetrable. The dead stillness of the day vanished before a hot land breeze, and Stella,
as she felt the launch drift, knew by her experience on the lake that they were moving offshore.
Presently this was confirmed, for out of the black wall on the west, from which the night wind
brought stifling puffs of smoke, there lifted a yellow effulgence that grew to a red glare
as the boat drifted out. Soon that red glare was a glowing line that rose and fell, dipping
and rising and wavering along a two-mile stretch, a fiery surf beating against the forest.

Down in the engine room Barlow finally located the trouble, and the motor took up its labors,
spinning with a rhythmic chatter of valves. The man came up into the pilot house, wiping the
sweat from his grimy face.

"Gee, I'm sorry, Mrs. Fyfe," he said. "A gas-engine man would 'a' fixed that in five minutes.
Took me two hours to find out what was wrong. It'll be a heck of a job to fetch Cougar Bay now."

But by luck Barlow made his way back, blundering fairly into the landing at the foot of the
path that led to the bungalow, as if the cruiser knew the way to her old berth. And as he reached
the float, the front windows on the hillock broke out yellow, pale blurs in the smoky night.

"Well, say," Barlow pointed. "I bet a nickel Jack's home. See? Nobody but him would be in the
house."

"I'll go up," Stella said.

"All right, I guess you know the path better'n I do," Barlow said. "I'll take the Bug around
into the bay."

Stella ran up the path. She halted halfway up the steps and leaned against the rail to catch
her breath. Then she went on. Her step was noiseless, for tucked in behind a cushion aboard
the Waterbug she had found an old pair of her own shoes, rubber-soled, and she had put them
on to ease the ache in her feet born of thirty-six hours' encasement in leather. She gained
the door without a sound. It was wide open, and in the middle of the big room Jack Fyfe stood
with hands thrust deep in his pockets, staring absently at the floor.

She took a step or two inside. Fyfe did not hear her; he did not look up.

"Jack."

He gave ever so slight a start, glanced up, stood with head thrown back a little. But he did
not move, or answer, and Stella, looking at him, seeing the flame that glowed in his eyes,
could not speak. Something seemed to choke her, something that was a strange compound of relief
and bewilderment and a slow wonder at herself,--at the queer, unsteady pounding of her heart.

"How did you get way up here?" he asked at last.

"Linda wired last night that Charlie was hurt. I got a machine to the Springs. Then Barlow
came down this afternoon looking for you. He said you'd been missing for two days. So I--I--"

She broke off. Fyfe was walking toward her with that peculiar, lightfooted step of his, a queer,
tense look on his face.

"Nero fiddled when Rome was burning," he said harshly. "Did you come to sing while my Rome
goes up in smoke?"

A little, half-strangled sob escaped her. She turned to go. But he caught her by the arm.

"There, lady," he said, with a swift change of tone, "I didn't mean to slash at you. I suppose
you mean all right. But just now, with everything gone to the devil, to look up and see you
here--I've really got an ugly temper, Stella, and it's pretty near the surface these days.
I don't want to be pitied and sympathized with. I want to fight. I want to hurt somebody."

"Hurt me then," she cried.

He shook his head sadly.

"I couldn't do that," he said. "No, I can't imagine myself ever doing that."

"Why?" she asked, knowing why, but wishful to hear in words what his eyes shouted.

"Because I love you," he said. "You know well enough why."

She lifted her one free hand to his shoulder. Her face turned up to his. A warm wave of blood
dyed the round, white neck, shot up into her cheeks. Her eyes were suddenly aglow, lips tremulous.

"Kiss me, then," she whispered. "That's what I came for. Kiss me, Jack."

If she had doubted, if she had ever in the last few hours looked with misgiving upon what she
felt herself impelled to do, the pressure of Jack Fyfe's lips on hers left no room for anything
but an amazing thrill of pure gladness. She was happy in his arms, content to rest there, to
feel his heart beating against hers, to be quit of all the uncertainties, all the useless regrets.
By a roundabout way she had come to her own, and it thrilled her to her finger tips. She could
not quite comprehend it, or herself. But she was glad, weeping with gladness, straining her
man to her, kissing his face, murmuring incoherent words against his breast.

"And so--and so, after all, you do care." Fyfe held her off a little from him, his sinewy fingers
gripping gently the soft flesh of her arms. "And you were big enough to come back. Oh, my dear,
you don't know what that means to me. I'm broke, and I'd just about reached the point where
I didn't give a damn. This fire has cleaned me out. I've--"

"I know," Stella interrupted. "That's why I came back. I wouldn't have come otherwise, at least
not for a long time--perhaps never. It seemed as if I ought to--as if it were the least I could
do. Of course, it looks altogether different, now that I know I really want to. But you see
I didn't know that for sure until I saw you standing here. Oh, Jack, there's such a lot I wish
I could wipe out."

"It's wiped out," he said happily. "The slate's clean. Fair weather didn't get us anywhere.
It took a storm. Well, the storm's over."

She stirred uneasily in his arms.

"Haven't you got the least bit of resentment, Jack, for all this trouble I've helped to bring
about?" she faltered.

"Why, no" he said thoughtfully. "All you did was to touch the fireworks off. And they might
have started over anything. Lord no! put that idea out of your head."

"I don't understand," she murmured. "I never have quite understood why Monohan should attack
you with such savage bitterness. That trouble he started on the Tyee, then this criminal firing
of the woods. I've had hints, first from your sister, then from Linda. I didn't know you'd
clashed before. I'm not very clear on that yet. But you knew all the time what he was. Why
didn't you tell me, Jack?"

"Well, maybe I should have," Fyfe admitted. "But I couldn't very well. Don't you see? He wasn't
even an incident, until he bobbed up and rescued you that day. I couldn't, after that, start
in picking his character to pieces as a mater of precaution. We had a sort of an armed truce.
He left me strictly alone. I'd trimmed his claws once or twice already. I suppose he was acute
enough to see an opportunity to get a whack at me through you. You were just living from day
to day, creating a world of illusions for yourself, nourishing yourself with dreams, smarting
under a stifled regret for a lot you thought you'd passed up for good. He wasn't a factor,
at first. When he did finally stir in you an emotion I had failed to stir, it was too late
for me to do or say anything. If I'd tried, at that stage of the game, to show you your idol's
clay feet, you'd have despised me, as well as refused to believe. I couldn't do anything but
stand back and trust the real woman of you to find out what a quicksand you were building your
castle on. I purposely refused to let you to, when you wanted to go away the first time,--partly
on the kid's account, partly because I could hardly bear to let you go. Mostly because I wanted
to make him boil over and show his teeth, on the chance that you'd be able to size him up.

"You see, I knew him from the ground up. I knew that nothing would afford him a keener pleasure
than to take away from me a woman I cared for, and that nothing would make him squirm more
than for me to check-mate him. That day I cuffed him and choked him on the Point really started
him properly. After that, you--as something to be desired and possessed--ran second to his
feeling against me. He was bound to try and play even, regardless of you. When he precipitated
that row on the Tyee, I knew it was going to be a fight for my financial life--for my own life,
if he ever got me foul. And it was not a thing I could talk about to you, in your state of
mind, then. You were through with me. Regardless of him, you were getting farther and farther
away from me. I had a long time to realize that fully. You had a grudge against life, and it
was sort of crystallizing on me. You never kissed me once in all those two years like you kissed
me just now."

She pulled his head down and kissed him again.

"So that I wasn't restraining you with any hope for my own advantage," he went on. "There was
the kid, and there was you. I wanted to put a brake on you, to make you go slow. You're a complex
individual, Stella. Along with certain fixed, fundamental principles, you've got a streak of
divine madness in you, a capacity for reckless undertakings. You'd never have married me if
you hadn't. I trusted you absolutely. But, I was afraid in spite of my faith. You had draped
such an idealistic mantle around Monohan. I wanted to rend that before it came to a final separation
between us. It worked out, because he couldn't resist trying to take a crack at me when the
notion seized him.

"So," he continued, after a pause, "you aren't responsible, and I've never considered you responsible
for any of this. It's between him and me, and it's been shaping for years. Whenever our trails
crossed there was bound to be a clash. There's always been a natural personal antagonism between
us. It began to show when we were kids, you might say. Monohan's nature is such that he can't
acknowledge defeat, he can't deny himself a gratification. He's a supreme egotist. He's always
had plenty of money, he's always had whatever he wanted, and it never mattered to him how he
gratified his desires.

"The first time we locked horns was in my last year at high school. Monohan was a star athlete.
I beat him in a pole vault. That irked him so that he sulked and sneered, and generally made
himself so insulting that I slapped him. We fought, and I whipped him. I had a temper that
I hadn't learned to keep in hand those days, and I nearly killed him. I had nothing but contempt
for him, anyway, because even then, when he wasn't quite twenty, he was a woman hunter, preying
on silly girls. I don't know what his magic with women is, but it works, until they find him
out. He was playing off two or three fool girls that I knew and at the same time keeping a
woman in apartments down-town,--a girl he'd picked up on a trip to Georgia,--like any confirmed
rounder.

"Well, from that time on, he hated me, always laid for a chance to sting me. We went to Princeton
the same year. We collided there, so hard that when word of it got to my father's ears, he
called me home and read the riot act so strong that I flared up and left. Then I came to the
coast here and got a job in the woods, got to be a logging boss, and went into business on
my own hook eventually. I'd just got nicely started when I ran into Monohan again. He'd got
into timber himself. I was hand logging up the coast, and I'd hate to tell you the tricks he
tried. He kept it up until I got too big to be harassed in a petty way. Then he left me alone.
But he never forgot his grudge. The stage was all set for this act long before you gave him
his cue, Stella. You weren't to blame for that, or if you were in part, it doesn't matter now.
I'm satisfied. Paradoxically I feel rich, even though it's a long shot that I'm broke flat.
I've got something money doesn't buy. And he has overreached himself at last. All his money
and pull won't help him out of this jack pot. Arson and attempted murder is serious business."

"They caught him," Stella said. "The constables took him down the lake to-night. I saw him
on their launch as they passed the Waterbug."

"Yes?" Fyfe said. "Quick work. I didn't even know about the shooting till I came in here to-night
about dark. Well," he snapped his fingers, "exit Monohan. He's a dead issue, far as we're concerned.
Wouldn't you like something to eat, Stella? I'm hungry, and I was dog-tired when I landed here.
Say, you can't guess what I was thinking about, lady, standing there when you came in."

She shook her head.

"I had a crazy notion of touching a match to the house," he said soberly, "letting it go up
in smoke with the rest. Yes, that's what I was thinking I would do. Then I'd take the Panther
and what gear I have on the scows and pull off Roaring Lake. It didn't seem as if I could stay.
I'd laid the foundation of a fortune here and tried to make a home--and lost it all, everything
that was worth having. And then all at once there you were, like a vision in the door. Miracles
do happen!"

Her arms tightened involuntarily about him.

"Oh," she cried breathlessly. "Our little, white house!"

"Without you," he replied softly, "it was just an empty shell of boards and plaster, something
to make me ache with loneliness."

"But not now," she murmured. "It's home, now."

"Yes," he agreed, smiling.

"Ah, but it isn't quite." She choked down a lump in her throat. "Not when I think of those
little feet that used to patter on the floor. Oh, Jack--when I think of my baby boy! My dear,
my dear, why did all this have to be, I wonder?"

Fyfe stroked her glossy coils of hair.

"We get nothing of value without a price," he said quietly. "Except by rare accident, nothing
that's worth having comes cheap and easy. We've paid the price, and we're square with the world
and with each other. That's everything."

"Are you completely ruined, Jack?" she asked after an interval. "Charlie said you were."

"Well," he answered reflectively, "I haven't had time to balance accounts, but I guess I will
be. The timber's gone. I've saved most of the logging gear. But if I realized on everything
that's left, and squared up everything, I guess I'd be pretty near strapped."

"Will you take me in as a business partner, Jack?" she asked eagerly. "That's what I had in
mind when I came up here. I made up my mind to propose that, after I'd heard you were ruined.
Oh, it seems silly now, but I wanted to make amends that way; at least, I tried to tell myself
that. Listen. When my father died, he left some supposedly worthless oil stock. But it proved
to have a market value. I got my share of it the other day. It'll help us to make a fresh start--together."

She had the envelope and the check tucked inside her waist. She took it out now and pressed
the green slip into his hand.

Fyfe looked at it and at her, a little chuckle deep in his throat.

"Nineteen thousand, five hundred," he laughed. "Well, that's quite a stake for you. But if
you go partners with me, what about your singing?"

"I don't see how I can have my cake and eat it, too," she said lightly. "I don't feel quite
so eager for a career as I did."

"Well, we'll see," he said. "That light of yours shouldn't be hidden under a bushel. And still,
I don't like the idea of you being away from me, which a career implies."

He put the check back in the envelope, smiling oddly to himself, and tucked it back in her
bosom. She caught and pressed his hand there, against the soft flesh.

"Won't you use it, Jack?" she pleaded. "Won't it help? Don't let any silly pride influence
you. There mustn't ever be anything like that between us again."

"There won't be," he smiled. "Frankly, if I need it, I'll use it. But that's a matter there's
plenty of time to decide. You see, although technically I may be broke, I'm a long way from
the end of my tether. I think I'll have my working outfit clear, and the country's full of
timber. I've got a standing in the business that neither fire nor anything else can destroy.
No, I haven't any false pride about the money, dear. But the money part of our future is a
detail. With the incentive I've got now to work and plan, it won't take me five years to be
a bigger toad in the timber puddle than I ever was. You don't know what a dynamo I am when
I get going."

"I don't doubt that," she said proudly. "But the money's yours, if you need it."

"I need something else a good deal more right now," he laughed. "That's something to eat. Aren't
you hungry, Stella? Wouldn't you like a cup of coffee?"

"I'm famished," she admitted--the literal truth. The vaulting uplift of spirit, that glad little
song that kept lilting in her heart, filled her with peace and contentment, but physically
she was beginning to experience acute hunger. She recalled that she had eaten scarcely anything
that day.

"We'll go down to the camp," Fyfe suggested. "The cook will have something left. We're camping
like pioneers down there. The shacks were all burned, and somebody sank the cookhouse scow."

They went down the path to the bay, hand in hand, feeling their way through that fire-blackened
area, under a black sky.

A red eye glowed ahead of them, a fire on the beach around which men squatted on their haunches
or lay stretched on their blankets, sooty-faced fire fighters, a weary group. The air was rank
with smoke wafted from the burning woods.

The cook's fire was dead, and that worthy was humped on his bed-roll smoking a pipe. But he
had cold meat and bread, and he brewed a pot of coffee on the big fire for them, and Stella
ate the plain fare, sitting in the circle of tired loggers.

"Poor fellows, they look worn out," she said, when they were again traversing that black road
to the bungalow.

"We've slept standing up for three weeks," Fyfe said simply. "They've done everything they
could. And we're not through yet. A north wind might set Charlie's timber afire in a dozen places."

"Oh, for a rain," she sighed.

"If wishing for rain brought it," he laughed, "we'd have had a second flood. We've got to keep
pegging away till it does rain, that's all. We can't do much, but we have to keep doing it.
You'll have to go back to the Springs to-morrow, I'm afraid, Stella. I'll have to stay on the
firing line, literally."

"I don't want to," she cried rebelliously. "I want to stay up here with you. I'm not wax. I
won't melt."

She continued that argument into the house, until Fyfe laughingly smothered her speech with kisses.

       *       *       *       *       *

An oddly familiar sound murmuring in Stella's ear wakened her. At first she thought she must
be dreaming. It was still inky dark, but the air that blew in at the open window was sweet
and cool, filtered of that choking smoke. She lifted herself warily, looked out, reached a
hand through the lifted sash. Wet drops spattered it. The sound she heard was the drip of eaves,
the beat of rain on the charred timber, upon the dried grass of the lawn.

Beside her Fyfe was a dim bulk, sleeping the dead slumber of utter weariness. She hesitated
a minute, then shook him.

"Listen, Jack," she said.

He lifted his head.

"Rain!" he whispered. "Good night, Mister Fire. Hooray!"

"I brought it," Stella murmured sleepily. "I wished it on Roaring Lake to-night."

Then she slipped her arm about his neck, and drew his face down to her breast with a tender
fierceness, and closed her eyes with a contented sigh.

THE END