In connexion with the evils which are deliberately inflicted by man with a view to reaping
either personal profit, or profit for the nation, or profit for humanity, the reasonable reformer
would begin by making clear to himself that the world we live in is not such a world as idealism
might conjure up, but a world of violence, in which life must be taken and physical suffering
be inflicted.

And he would recognise that the vital material interests of the nation can be protected only
by armed force; that civilisation can be safeguarded only by punishing violations of the criminal
law; and that the taking of animal life and the infliction of a certain amount of physical
suffering upon animals is essential to human well-being, comfort, and recreation; and essential
also to the achievement of the knowledge which is required to combat disease.

And the reasonable reformer will, in conformity with this, direct his efforts, not to the total
abolition of war, but to the prevention of such wars as are not waged for really vital material
interests, and to the abatement of the ferocities of warfare.

In the case of punishment for criminals he would similarly devote his efforts not to the abrogation
of punishments, but to the relinquishment of any that are not reformatory, or really deterrent.

In like manner the reasonable reformer would not seek to prohibit the slaughtering of animals
for food, or the killing off of animal pests, or the trapping, shooting, or hunting of animals
for sport or profit, nor yet would he seek to prevent their utilisation of animals for the
acquirement of knowledge.

He would direct his efforts to reducing the pain which is inflicted, and to preserving everywhere
measure and scale--not sentimentally forbidding in connexion with one form of utilisation of
animals what is freely allowed in connexion with another--but differentiating, if differentiating
at all in favour of permitting the infliction of proportionately greater suffering in the case
where national and humanitarian interests, than in the case where mere recreation and luxury
and personal profit, are at stake.

Having recognised what reason would prescribe to the legislative reformer, we have next to
inquire how far the man voter conforms to these prescriptions of reason, and how far the woman
reformer would do so if she became a voter.

Let it be noted that the man in the street makes no question about falling in with the fact
that he is born into a world of violence, and he acquiesces in the principle that the State,
and, failing the State, the individual, may employ force and take life in defence of vital
material interests. And he frankly falls in with it being a matter of daily routine to kill
and inflict suffering upon animals for human profit or advantage.

Even if these principles are not formulated by the man in the street in quite such plain terms,
he not only carries them out in practice, but he conducts all his thinking upon these presuppositions.

He, for instance, would fall in with the proposition that morality does not require from man
that he should give up taking life or inflicting physical suffering. And he would not cavil
with the statement that man should put reasonable limits to the amount of suffering he inflicts,
and confine this within as narrow a range as possible--always requiring for the death or suffering
inflicted some tangible advantage.

Moreover, if the question should be raised as to whether such advantage will result, the ordinary
man will as a rule, where the matter lies beyond his personal ken, take expert opinion before
intervening.

