As for Germaine, she, with Petit-Jacques to help her, had gone to milk the cows. Mother Etienne
soon joined them, and the two women came back to the house together.

Horror of horrors! What a terrible sight. Pale with fear they stood on the threshold of the
kitchen not daring to move--to enter. Their hearts were in their mouths. A ghost stood there
in front of them--Yollande--and Germaine fell at Mother Etienne's feet in utter consternation.
Yollande? Yes, Yollande, but what a Yollande! Heavens! Yollande plucked, literally plucked!
Yollande emerging from her shroud like Lazarus from his tomb! Yollande risen from the dead!
A cry of anguish burst from the heart of kind Mother Etienne.

"Yollande, oh, Yollande!"

The Cochin-China replied by a long shudder.

This is what had happened.

On falling into the water, Yollande after struggling fiercely succumbed to syncope, and her
lungs ceasing to act she had ceased to breathe, so the water had not entered her lungs. That
is why she was not drowned. Life was, so to speak, suspended. The syncope lasted some time.
The considerable heat to which she was subjected when Germaine held her above the flaming newspaper
had brought about a healthy reaction and in the solitude of the kitchen she had recovered consciousness.

After the first moment of terror was over, Germaine confessed her plan to Mother Etienne, who,
glad to find Yollande still alive, forgave Germaine the disobedience which had saved her.

But the hen was still shivering, shaking in every limb, her skin all goose-flesh. Dragging
after her her travesty of a tail, she jumped onto the kitchen-table which she shook with her
shivering.

"We can't leave her like that any longer," said Mother Etienne, "we must cover her up somehow,"
and straightway she wrapped her up in all the cloths she could lay her hands on. Germaine prepared
some hot wine with sugar in it, and the two women fed her with it in spoonfuls,--then they
took a good drink of it themselves. All three at once felt the better for it. Yollande spent
the night in these hastily-made swaddling clothes between two foot-warmers which threw out
a gentle and continuous heat and kept away the catarrh with which the poor Cochin-China was
threatened. The great question which arose now was how they were to protect her from the cold
in future. Both of them cogitated over it.

Several times during the night, Mother Etienne and the maid came to look at the hen, who, worn
out by such a long day of fatigue and suffering, at last closed her eyes, relaxed, and slept
till morning.

Nevertheless she was the first in the house to wake up, and at dawn began to cackle vigorously.
Germaine hastened to her, bringing a quantity of corn which the hen, doubtless owing to her
fast of the day before, ate greedily.

Now the important thing was to find her a practical costume. The weather was mild but there
was great danger in allowing her to wander about in a garb as light as it was primitive. The
mornings and evenings were cool and might bring on a cold, inflammation or congestion of the
lungs, rheumatism, or what not.

At all costs a new misfortune must be avoided. At last they dressed her in silk cunningly fashioned
and lined with wadding. Thus garbed her entry into the poultry-yard was a subject of astonishment
to some, fear to others, and excitement to most of the birds she met on her way.

In vain Mother Etienne strove to tone down the colours of the stuffs, to modify the cut of
the garments, but Yollande long remained an object of surprise and antipathy to the majority
of the poultry.

The scandal soon reached its climax.

"That hen must be mad," said an old duck to his wife.

"Just imagine dressing up like that; she'll come along one of these days in a bathing suit,"
cried a young rooster who prided himself on his wit.

A young turkey tugged at her clothes, trying to pull them off, and all the others looked on
laughing and hurling insults.... They vied with one another in sarcastic speeches. At last,
after a time, as the saying goes, "Familiarity bred contempt." The fear which her companions
had felt at first soon changed into a familiarity often too great for the unhappy Cochin-China.
They tried to see who could play her the shabbiest trick. Hens are often as cruel as men, which
is saying a great deal.

Poor Yollande, in spite of her size, her solidity, and strength, nearly always emerged half-dressed.
Her companions could not stand her dressed like that, the sight of her irritated them. Not
content with tearing her clothes they often pecked at the poor creature as well.

Mother Etienne did her best to improve these costumes in every way--but it was as impossible
to find perfection as the philosopher's stone.

They hoped at the farm that in time the feathers would grow again. Meanwhile it was hard on
the hen.

Nothing of the sort happened; one, two, three months passed and not the least vestige of down
appeared on the hen, who had to be protected like a human being from the changes of climate
and so forth. Like a well-to-do farmer's wife Yollande had her linen-chest and a complete outfit.

It was, I assure you, my dear children, kept up most carefully. There was always a button to
sew on, a buttonhole to remake, or a tear to be mended. Thus constantly in touch with the household
Madame Hen soon thought she belonged to it. Indeed, worn out by the teasing of her companions,
by the constant arguments she had with them, and touched on the other hand by the affectionate
care of her mistresses, Yollande stayed more and more in the house. Coddled and swathed in
her fantastic costumes, she sat in the chimney corner like a little Cinderella changed into
a hen; from this corner she quietly watched; nothing escaped her notice.

Meanwhile her reputation had grown, not only amongst her comrades, but amongst all the animals
of the neighbourhood, who, hearing her discussed, were anxious to see her.

Woe to the cat or dog who dared venture too far into the room! Very annoyed at this impertinent
curiosity, she would leap upon the importunate stranger and punish him terribly with her sharp
beak. Of course he would run off howling and frightened to death. It was very funny to watch.

Mother Etienne and Germaine were much amused at these little comedies, and whenever visitors
came to the farm they would try to provoke one. Everyone enjoyed them hugely.

Germaine treated Yollande like a doll. She made her all sorts of fashionable clothes. The Cochin-China
would be dressed sometimes like a man, sometimes like a woman. She had made her quite a collection
of little trousers and vests, which had style, I can tell you. She had copied, too, from a
circus she had seen, an English clown's costume which was most becoming. Nothing could be funnier
than to watch this tiny dwarf, to see her strut, jump, dance, coming and going, skipping around
suddenly,--one moment skittish, the next very important.

Petit-Jacques loved to tease her, but not roughly; he would push her with his foot, and make
her jump at him impatiently, looking perfectly ridiculous in her quaint dress. You could have
sworn she was a miniature clown. Add to all this, the queer inarticulate sounds she made when
she was angry, and even then you can have no idea how very amusing these pantomimes were.

Soon the fame of Yollande spread far and wide. She became celebrated throughout the district.
Instead of asking Mother Etienne how she was, people asked:

"How's your hen today, Mother Etienne?"

CHAPTER IV

FATHER GUSSON'S SECRET

One day a peddler, such as often come round to villages, laden like a mule, and leading by
the bridle an ass still more laden, appeared at the farm. Both looked well but tired and dusty--they
seemed to have had a long journey.

Father Gusson, such was the good man's name, sold all sorts of things, from tooth-brushes to
shoes,--including hardware, glassware, notions, drugs, and even patent medicines.

Mother Etienne received him kindly and after letting him show her the things in which she was
interested, she offered him refreshment and suggested that he should take a little rest at
the farm. This he accepted without needing any pressing.

The donkey, relieved straightway from his load, was led into the paddock, where he wallowed
in the tall grass, rolling on his back, his feet in the air. He enjoyed cleaning himself up
like this after his dusty journey, then, rested--he took his luncheon, choosing here and there
the daintiest morsels; after which he lay down and philosophised at length.

All this time, Mother Etienne and Germaine were buying, tempted by one thing after another,
silks, laces, stuffs for dresses, and a number of toilet articles, for both were, though you
would not have suspected it, rather coquettish. Father Gusson--delighted with his visit to
the farm and the business he had done there--was anxious to leave Mother Etienne a little remembrance.

"Madame," he said, holding out a small china jar carefully sealed with parchment, "assuredly
you do not need this just now, but if I should never come back, and if it should happen that
one day your beautiful hair should grow thin, turn grey, or fall out, you have only to rub
your head with this sweet-scented ointment and at once your hair will grow again thick and
of its original colour. I cannot, alas! give you the recipe, it is a secret left me by my parents."

Then Father Gusson bade farewell to the two women and went on his way with "Neddy," both much
refreshed by their pleasant rest.

Mother Etienne handed Germaine the precious pot of ointment to put with their other purchases
into the big cupboard, and they thought no more about it.

One day as she sat by the fire with Yollande, watching the dinner, a bright and whimsical idea
occurred to the maid. "Supposing I were to try the ointment on the hen? But--it might be good
for feathers too--anyhow, it could not do any harm."

Saying this she went, found the ointment, and delicately rubbed a little onto Yollande's head.
Yollande did not appear to mind at all. Germaine did this three days running.

Two weeks later Mother Etienne while dressing her hen, as she did each day, found a thick reddish
down sprouting round her head like a little flat wig. She showed it to Germaine, who paid no
attention, having quite forgotten her childish trick.

But during the next few days the wig prospered; the hair was two finger-breadths long, very
thick and curly. Mother Etienne could not understand it at all. Germaine could not, at first,
make up her mind to confess to her mistress what she had done.

At last one evening, Mother Etienne being in a particularly good humour, the young girl took
courage and told her all about it. Far from scolding her, her mistress was delighted, and so
pleased at the news that she there and then undressed Yollande and rubbed her from head to
foot with Father Gusson's marvellous ointment. She did the thing thoroughly--rubbing it into
every pore. Then they made a good fire so that the poor little model, thus exposed, should
not take cold.

After that they watched her every instant; they were for ever undressing her to see if the
cure was working--they could hardly bear to wait. Just think--if it were to succeed. It would
be the end and aim of all their care. Yollande could once again take her proper place in the world.

At last what had happened to the head, happened to the body too. Before a week had gone by
a thick down completely covered the big hen. The good women, much wondering, imagined that
as it grew stronger the hair would change into feathers. Anxiously they awaited the change.
Nothing of the sort happened. The hair remained hair--red, Titian red--fine and soft, curling
round your fingers, admirable in quality and colour.

The hair on the head, older than that on the rest of the body, was much longer, which suggested
to the mischievous Germaine the idea of making her an elaborate headdress.

Nothing like it had ever been seen before.

Soon Yollande was able to discard some of her clothes. Her breast and back required for a time
yet a little covering, but this grew gradually less and less.

Naturally the phenomenon was much discussed in the neighbourhood, and it attracted many and
delightful visitors to the farm, all of whom Mother Etienne welcomed cordially. Yollande was
less pleased with this desire to inspect her. Generally some unbeliever would tug at her hair,
a painful experience for her. So, except towards her mistress and Germaine, she had become
exceedingly vindictive and watchful. Every time she had the chance she pecked with her short,
stout beak at the person indiscreet enough to take such liberties. One little visitor, more
daring than the rest, nearly lost his finger over it.

The fame of the curly-haired hen was tremendous, it spread even beyond the limits of the district.
It was really worth a journey to see her. They wrote of it in the newspapers. The "Daily Mirror,"
I think it was, had a fine long article about her.

But in certain quarters, the whole thing was looked upon as a "fish story."

CHAPTER V

SIR BOOUM CALLS UPON MOTHER ETIENNE

Just about this time placards were posted about the whole village, announcing the arrival of
a Great American Circus, bringing in its train the most wonderful spectacles. Menageries,--curiosities
of all kinds, such as had not been seen since the time of the Caesars.

Incredible things were on show. Nobody, however small their purse, could resist the pleasure
of witnessing these sights. Nobody, that is, except the people in and around this village.

The menagerie prepared for its performance by splendid processions. Caparisoned in gold the
elephants marched around. There were horses of all colours and of all sizes, dromedaries, rhinoceroses,
black men and white monkeys, bands of musicians, fairy chariots.

The inhabitants saw the gorgeous procession pass with indifference, with a superior kind of
air and without the least enthusiasm.

On the evening of the first performance, in spite of the placards, processions, bands, notices,
and illuminations, nobody appeared at the ticket-office of the theatre and they played to an
empty house.

"What," cried the impresario, tearing his hair. "Crowds flocked to me in London, Paris, St.
Petersburg, and New York. I have been congratulated by the Shah of Persia, invited to lunch
by the Grand Turk, and this little hole despises me, mocks at me, considers me a failure."

The lights out, Sir Booum spent a terrible night, wondering what evil genius could thus attack
his laurels. At dawn, worn out by his sleepless night, he set out, eager to learn the cause
of his failure.

All those whom he met winked knowingly, laughing in their sleeves, and courtesied to him without
giving him any information. At last one, touched by his despair, answered:

"Why should we come to you? We have here in this very place, where we can see it for nothing,
a marvel beside which yours are commonplace. Have you in your menagerie a curly-haired hen?"

"A curly-haired hen!" cried Sir Booum. "Gracious, goodness me! What are you talking about?
Three times have I been round the world and have never heard of such a thing."

"Go to the big farm down yonder and you can see the one I am telling you about. You will be
ashamed to think how uninteresting in comparison are the things you show."

A few minutes later, a magnificent equipage, driven by an elegant gentleman and drawn by two
light bays, entered the courtyard of the big farm.

"Does Madame Etienne live here, please?" he asked Petit-Jacques, who was busy grooming Coco.

"Yes, sir."

"Will you kindly give her this card and ask if she will see me?"

"Certainly, sir, at once."

Petit-Jacques returned a few minutes later with Mother Etienne.

The gentleman got down from his seat, handing the reins to his groom.

"Excuse me, Madame. I am Sir Booum. It was my circus which gave its first performance here
yesterday as announced on the placards posted on the walls throughout the village.

I have heard, Madame, that you have a most extraordinary hen, and I have come to beg you to
show it to me. If it is really such as it was described to me, I will buy it at once."

"Sir," said Mother Etienne, "I am very pleased to meet you; I will show you Yollande as you
ask, but sell her to you?--never. I love the dear thing far too well to part with her."

"But, Madame, if I give you a large sum? How much do you ask? Name your figure."

Mother Etienne, without answering a word, went off to fetch the Cochin-China hen to show to
her visitor.

American as he was, he was astounded and was soon convinced that there had been no exaggeration.
This was indeed the curly-haired hen.

"Well, Madame, how much is it to be?--$1,000, $2,000, $4,000? Can't you make up your mind?"

"No, sir, please don't insist. I do not want to part with dear Yollande," and Mother Etienne,
distressed and trembling, covered her hen with caresses.

In vain the American urged. His eyes shone with the desire to include this marvel in his collection.
He could do nothing, and was finally obliged to retreat.

"Night brings counsel, Madame. I will return tomorrow to visit you, and I hope you will then
decide in my favour. Until tomorrow, then, Madame."

The gentleman bowed politely and got into his carriage. The equipage left the courtyard, turned
onto the high road, and was lost in the distance in a cloud of golden dust.

CHAPTER VI

THE SEPARATION

Mother Etienne was much distressed. The unexpected appearance of this personage, the offer
of this huge sum of money, were enough to excite a woman more worldly-wise than she. Germaine
strove to persuade her mistress to accept the offer.

"But, my dear mistress, think of it--$4,000. It is a fortune. Don't let it escape you. It is
a chance which will never come again. Think how well Yollande will be cared for. He does not
mean to eat her at that price. Think of a stew costing $4,000. No indeed, the gentleman will
try to keep her well as long as possible. It will be to his interest not to hurt her. Be sure
of it, she will be as well cared for as she is here, if not better."

Thus they talked all evening.

Mother Etienne, feverishly affectionate, looked at the hen lying as usual asleep in the chimney
corner. She could not make up her mind to sell her sweet Cinderella. Her affection for Yollande
had increased with the constant care she had needed during so many long months. Besides, the
silky tresses curling like corkscrews, which Germaine had kept so smooth, had been a source
of amusement, not only to the farm but to the whole neighbourhood.

That night Mother Etienne was much agitated in spite of the hot drink Germaine had given her.
She was haunted by a horrible nightmare. She seemed to be lying on a bed of banknotes, whilst
the Cochin-China, sitting heavily on her chest, reproached her bitterly for having handed her
over to a stranger in exchange for a little filthy lucre. Mother Etienne, bathed in perspiration,
seemed to suffocate under her sheets.

At last dawn came, the good woman rose, her heart still terribly oppressed. Germaine calmed
her as best she could with reassuring words and also with a foaming bowl of hot coffee.

All morning Mother Etienne endured torments.

