"He has a great time over it," I interrupted, to which the little boy nodded, as much as to say,

"Yes, sir, that's it."

"Did your father send you after this book?" I asked.

"No, sir."

"Did your mother tell you to get it?"

"No, sir. But my mother gave me a shilling, and told me I might buy just such a book as I liked."

"Well, my son," said I, "look here. You have heard Giles read some of the funny things in this
almanac, have you not?"

"Yes, sir."

"And you've seen some of the pictures?"

"Yes, sir, all of them."

"Then you know pretty well what the book is?"

"Yes, sir, all about it, and that's what makes me want to buy it."

"Well, you have a right to buy just such a book as you want. But if I were in your place, I
would not buy that book; and I'll tell you why. There's a good deal of fun in it, to be sure.
No doubt you would laugh over it, if you had it. But you can't learn anything from it. Come,
now, I'll make a bargain with you. Here's a book"--I handed him one of the Lucy books, written
by Mr. Jacob Abbott--"which is worth a dozen of that. This will make you laugh some, as well
as the other book; and it will do much more and better than that. It will set you to thinking.
It will instruct, as well as amuse you. It will sow some good seeds in your mind, and your
heart, too. It will teach you to be a thinker as well as a reader. It costs a little more than
that almanac, it is true. But never mind that. If you'll take this book, and give the gentleman
your shilling, I'll pay him the rest of the money. Will you do it? Will you take the Lucy book,
and leave the funny almanac?"

He hesitated. He hardly knew whether he should make or lose by the trade.

"If you will do so," I continued, "and read the book, when you get through with it, you may
come to my office in Nassau street, and tell me how you was pleased with it. Then, if you say
that you did not like Mr. Abbott's book so well as you think you would have liked the book
with the funny pictures, and tell me that you made a bad bargain, I'll take back the Lucy book,
and give you the almanac in the place of it."

That pleased the little fellow. The bargain was struck. Mr. Abbott's book was bought, and the
boy left the store, and ran home.

I think it was about a week after that, or it might have been a little longer, that I heard
my name spoken, as I was sitting at my desk. I turned around, and, sure enough, there was the
identical boy with whom I had made the trade at the book store.

"Well, my little fellow," I said, "you've got sick of your bargain, eh?" "No, sir," he said,
"I'm glad I made it;" and he proceeded to tell me his errand. It seemed that he had been so
pleased with the book, that he "wanted a few more of the same sort," as the razor strop man
says; and his father had told him that he might come to me, ask me to get all the Lucy books
for him.

Now you see how it was with that little fellow, before he read the book I gave him. He had
got the notion that a child's book could not be amusing--could not be worth reading--unless
it was filled with such nonsense as there was in the "funny book" he called for. He had not
got a taste for reading anything else. As soon as he did get such a taste, he liked that kind
of reading the best; because, besides making him laugh a little now and then, it put some thoughts
into his head--gave him some hints which would be worth something to him in after life.

Now, I presume there are a great many boys and girls, who love to read such nonsense as one
finds in comic almanacs, and books like "Bluebeard," and "Jack the Giant Killer," but who,
like the youth I met in the book store, could very easily learn to like useful books just as
well, and better too, if they would only take them up, and read them.

Why, my little friends, a book need not be dull and dry, because it is not all nonsense. Uncle
Frank don't mean to have a long face on, when he writes for young people. He believes in laughing.
He likes to laugh himself, and he likes to see his young friends laugh, too, sometimes.

I hope, indeed, that you will find this little book amusing, as well as useful; though I should
be very sorry if it were not useful, as well as amusing.

III.

THE SCHEMING SPIDER.

A FABLE FOR MANY IN GENERAL, AND A FEW IN PARTICULAR.

    I.

    A bee who had chased after pleasure all day,
    And homeward was lazily wending his way,
    Fell in with a Spider, who called to the Bee:
    "Good evening! I trust you are well," said he.

    II.

    The bee was quite happy to stop awhile there--
    He always had leisure enough and to spare--
    "Good day, Mr. Spider," he said, with a bow,
    "I thank you, I feel rather poorly, just now."

    III.

    "'Tis nothing but work, with all one's might--
    'Tis nothing but work, from morning till night.
    I wish I were dead, Mr. Spider; you know
    I might as well die as to drag along so."

    IV.

    The Spider pretended to pity the Bee--
    For a cunning old hypocrite spider was he--
    "I'm sorry to see you so poorly," he said;
    And he whispered his wife, "He will have to be bled."

    V.

    "'Tis true sir,"--the knave! every word is a lie--
    "That rather than live so, 'twere better to die.
    'Twere better to finish the thing, as you say,
    Than to live till you're old, and die every day.

    VI.

    "The life that you lead, it may do very well
    For the beaver's rude hut, or the honey bee's cell;
    But it never would suit a gay fellow like me.
    I love to be merry--I love to be free."

    VII.

    "In hoarding up riches you're wasting your time;
    And--pray, sir, excuse me--such waste is a crime.
    And then to be guilty of avarice, too!
    Alas! how I pity such sinners as you!"

    VIII.

    Strange, strange that the Bee was so stupid and blind;
    "Amen!" he exclaimed, "you have spoken my mind;
    I've been very wicked, I know it, I feel it;
    The bees have no right to their honey--they steal it.

    IX.

    "But how in the world shall I manage to live?
    Should I beg of my friends, not a mite would they give;
    'Tis easy enough to be idle and sing,
    But living on air is a different thing."

    X.

    Our Spider was silent, and looked very grave--
    'Twas a habit he had, the cunning old knave!
    No Spider, pursuing his labor of love,
    Had more of the serpent, or less of the dove.

    XI.

    At length, "I believe I have hit it," said he;
    "Walk into my palace, and tarry with me.
    We spiders know nothing of labor and care;
    Come in; you are welcome our bounty to share.

    XII.

    "I live like a king, and my wife like a queen;
    We wander where flowers are blooming and green,
    And then on the breast of the lily we lie,
    And list to the stream running merrily by.

    XIII.

    "With us you shall mingle in scenes of delight,
    All summer, all winter, from morn until night,
    And when 'neath the hills sinks the sun in the west,
    Your head on a pillow of roses shall rest.

    XIV.

    "When miserly bees shall return from their toils"--
    He winked as he said it--"we'll feast on the spoils;
    I'll lighten their loads"--said the Bee, "So will I."
    And the Spider said, "Well, if you live, you may try."

    XV.

    The Bee did not wait to be urged any more,
    But nodded his thanks, as he entered the door.
    "Aha!" said the Spider, "I have you at last!"
    And he seized the poor fellow, and tied him up fast.

    XVI.

    The Bee, when aware of his perilous state,
    Recovered his wit, though a moment too late.
    "O treacherous Spider! for shame!" said he.
    "Is it thus you betray a poor innocent Bee?"

    XVII.

    The cunning old rascal then laughed outright.
    "My friend!" he said, grinning, "you're in a sad plight.
    Ha! ha! what a dunce you must be to suppose
    That the heart of a Spider could pity your woes!

    XVIII.

    "I never could boast of much honor or shame,
    Though slightly acquainted with both by name;
    But I think if the Bees can a brother betray,
    We Spiders are quite as good people as they.

    XIX.

    "I guess you have lived long enough, little sinner,
    And, now, with your leave, I will eat you for dinner.
    You'll make a good morsel, it must be confessed;
    And the world, very likely, will pardon the rest."

    MORAL.

    This lesson for every one, little and great,
    Is taught in that vagabond's tragical fate:
    Of him who is scheming your friend to ensnare,
    Unless you've a passion for bleeding, beware!

IV.

GENIUS IN THE BUD.

Genius, in its infancy, sometimes puts on a very funny face. The first efforts of a painter
are generally rude enough. So are those of a poet, or any other artist. I have often wished
I might see the first picture that such a man as Titian, or Rubens, or Reynolds, or West, ever
drew. It would interest me much, and, I suspect, would provoke a smile or two, at the expense
of the young artists.

History does not often transmit such sketches to the world. But I wish it would. I wish the
picture of the sheep that Giotto was sketching, when Cimabue, one of the greatest painters
of his age, came across him, could be produced. I would go miles to see it. And I wish West's
mother had carefully preserved, for some public gallery, the picture that her son Benjamin
made of the little baby in the cradle. You have heard that story, I dare say.

Benjamin, you know, showed a taste for drawing and painting, when he was a very little boy.
His early advantages were but few. But he made the most of these advantages; and the result
was that he became one of the first painters of his day, and before he died, he was chosen
President of the Royal Society in London. How do you think he made his colors? You will smile
when you hear that they were formed with charcoal and chalk, with an occasional sprinkling
of the juice of red berries. His brush was rather a rude one. It was made of the hair he pulled
from the tail of Pussy, the family cat. Poor old cat! she lost so much of her fur to supply
the young artist with brushes, that the family began to feel a good deal of anxiety for her
pussyship. They thought her hair fell off by disease, until Benjamin, who was an honest boy,
one day informed them of their mistake. What a pity that the world could not have the benefit
of one of the pictures that West painted with his cat-tail brush.

And then, what a treat it would be, to get hold of the first rhymes that Watts and Pope ever
made. I believe that Watts had been rhyming some time when he got a fatherly flogging for this
exercise of his genius, and he sobbed out, between the blows,

    "Dear father, do some pity take,
    And I will no more verses make."

That couplet was not his first one, by a good deal. The habit, it would seem, had taken a pretty
strong hold of him, when the whipping drew that out of him.

It seems to me that the childhood and early youth of a genius are more interesting than any
riper periods of his life; or rather, that they become so, when time and circumstances have
developed what there was in the man, and when from the stand-point of his fame in manhood,
we look back upon his early history. What small beginnings there have been to all the efforts
of those who have made themselves masters of the particular art to which they have directed
their attention.

I wonder what kind of a thing Washington Irving's first composition was. There must have been
a first one; and, without doubt, it was a clumsy affair enough. If I were going to write his
history, I would find those who knew him when he was a mere child, and I would pump from them
as many anecdotes about his little scribblings as I possibly could, and I would print them,
lots of them. I hardly think I could do the reader of his biography a better service.

I wonder what his first experience was with the editors. These editors, by the way, are often
very troublesome to the young sprig of genius. Placed, as they are, at the door of the temple
of fame, they often seem to the unfledged author the most disobliging, iron-hearted men in
the world. He could walk right into the temple, and make himself perfectly at home there, if
they would only open the door. So he fancies; and he wonders why the barbarians don't see the
genius sticking out, when he comes along with his nicely-written verses, and why they don't
just give him, at once, a ticket of admission to the honors of the world. "These editors are
slow to perceive merit," he says to himself.

Your old friend Uncle Frank once set himself up for a genius. Don't laugh--pray, don't laugh.
I was young then, and as green as a juvenile gosling. Age has branded into me a great many
truths, which, somehow or other, were very slow in finding their way to my young mind. The
notion that I am a genius does not haunt me now, and a great many years have passed since such
a vision flitted across my imagination. But I will tell you how I was cooled off, once on a
time, when I got into a raging fever of authorship, and was burning up with a desire to make
an impression on the world. I had written some verses--written them with great care, and with
ever so many additions, subtractions, and divisions. They were perfect, at last--that is, I
could not make them any more perfect--and off they were posted to the editor of the village
newspaper. I declare I don't remember what they were about. But I dare say, they were "Lines"
to somebody, or "Stanzas" to something; and I remember they were signed "Theodore Thinker,"
in a very large, and as I then thought, a very fair hand.

"Well, did the editor print them, Uncle Frank?"

Hold on, my dear fellow. You are quite too fast. As I said, when the lines to somebody or something
were sent to the editor, I was in a perfect fever. I could hardly wait for Wednesday to come,
the day on which the paper was to be issued--the paper which was to be the medium of the first
acquaintance of my muse with "a discerning public."

"Well, how did you feel when the lines were printed?"

When they were printed! Alas, for my fame! they were not printed at all. The editor rejected
them. "Theodore's lines," said he--the great clown! what did he know about poetry?--"Theodore's
lines have gone to the shades. They possessed some merit,"--some merit! that's all he knows
about poetry; the brute!--"but not enough to entitle them to a place. Still, whenever age and
experience have sufficiently developed his genius,"--mark the smooth and oily manner in which
the savage knocks a poor fellow down, and treads on his neck--"whenever age and experience
have sufficiently developed his genius, we shall be happy to hear from him again."

If you can fancy how a man feels, when he is taken from an oven, pretty nearly hot enough to
bake corn bread, and plunged into a very cold bath, indeed--say about forty degrees Fahrenheit--you
can form some idea of my feelings when I read that paragraph in the editorial column, under
the notice "To correspondents."

I am inclined to think there are a great many little folks climbing up the stairs of the stage
of life, who verily believe that genius has got them by the hand, leading them along, but who,
in fact, are not a little mistaken. It is rather important that one should know whether he
has any genius or not; and if he has, in what particular direction he will be likely to distinguish
himself.

I don't believe in the old-fashioned notion that people all come into the world with minds
and tastes so unlike, that, if you educate one ever so carefully, he never will make a poet,
or a painter, or a musician, as the case may be; while the other will be a master in one of
these branches, with scarcely any instruction. But I do believe there is a great difference
in natural capacities for a particular art; and that some persons learn that art easily, while
others learn it with difficulty, and could, perhaps, never excel in it, if they should drive
at it for a life-time.

Ralph Waldo, a boy who lived near our house, when I was a child, was the sport of all the neighborhood,
on account of the high estimate in which he held his talent at drawing pictures. Now it so
happened that Ralph's pictures, to say the least, were rather poor specimens of the art. Some
of them, according to the best of my recollection, would never have suggested the particular
animal or thing for which they were made, if they had not been labeled, or if Ralph had not
called them by name.

Such dogs and cats, such horses and cows, such houses and trees, such men and women, were never
seen since the world began, as those which figured on his slate. And yet he thought a great
deal of his pictures. How happy it used to make him, when some of the boys in the neighborhood,
perhaps purely out of sport, would say, "Come, Ralph, let's see you make a horse now." With
what zeal he used to set himself about the task of making a horse. When it was done, and ready
for exhibition, though it was a perfect scare-crow of a thing, he used to hold it up, with
ever so much pride expressed in the rough features of his face, as if it were an effort worthy
of being hung up in the Academy of Design, or the Gallery of Fine Arts.

This state of things lasted for some years. But Ralph did not make much progress in the art.
His horses continued to be the same stiff, awkward things that they were at first. So did his
cows, and oxen, and dogs, and cats, and men. It became pretty evident, at least to everybody
except the young artist himself, that he never would shine in his favorite profession. He was
not "cut out for it," apparently, though it took a great while to beat the idea out of his
head, that he was going to make one of the greatest painters in the country. When he became
a young man, however, he had sense enough to choose the carpenter's trade, instead of the painter's
art. I think he showed a great deal more judgment than many other people do, who imagine they
are destined to astonish two or three continents with their wonderful productions in some department
of the fine arts, but who, unfortunately, are not much better fitted for either of them than
a goose or a sheep.

V.

PUTTING ON AIRS:

OR, HOW I TRIED TO WIN RESPECT.

Reader--young reader, for I take it for granted you are young, though if you should not happen
to be, it does not matter--I have about three quarters of a mind to let you know what I think
of the practice of putting on airs. The best way to do the thing perhaps, will be in the form
of a story, and a story it shall be--a story about a friend of mine who is sometimes called
Aunt Kate, and who has been known to call herself by that name.

It is true that some of the incidents in this story are not much to my friend's credit. But
I am sure she cannot blame me for mentioning them to you; for she gave me the whole story,
and I shall tell it almost exactly in her own words. Are you ready for it? Well, then, here it is:

Reader, have you ever been from home? Of course you have. Everybody goes from home in these
days; but in the days of my childhood such an event was not a matter of course affair, as it
now is. Most people stayed at home then, more then they do now--the very aged, and the very
young, especially.

When I was a child, my parents sometimes took me with them, when they went to visit their city
friends. These journeys used to excite the envy of all my young companions, none of whom, if
I recollect right, had ever been to a city. But times have changed even in my native village;
and the juvenile portion of its inhabitants begin their travels much earlier in life now, than
they did then.

But the first time I went from home alone--that was an event! Went alone, did I say? I am too
fast. My father saw me safely to the place where I was to go, and left me to spend a few days
and come home in the stage.

When he left me, he gave me a bright half dollar, for spending money. Now would you give anything,
my little friend, to know how I spent it? If you had known me in those days, you could have
easily guessed, even if not much of a Yankee. I bought a book with it, of course. I thought
I could not purchase anything to be compared with that in value. Since then I have learned
there are other things in the world besides books, although I must own that I still cling to
not a little of my old friendship for them. How long seemed the few days I was absent from
my father's house. I had seen a great deal of the world, I thought, during that time. There
seemed to be an illusion about it--a feeling as if I had been from home for weeks; and when
I returned, and found some of the good things upon the table which were baked before I left
home, I thought they must be very old--very old indeed.

"I should like to know how long you think you have been gone," said some member of the family.

Sure enough! How long had I been away? Not quite a week. But you need not smile, for that week
was a long one. We do not always measure time by minutes and hours. That is not the only week
of my life that has appeared long. I have seen other weeks that seemed as long as some months.
We sometimes live very fast, and at other times, more slowly.

But this is not the journey I am going to tell you about. I was young then, and a little green,
no doubt; but before I left home again, I had got rid of my ignorance on some points. Miss
Tompkins, a maiden lady, who sometimes came to our house to sew, and who laid claim to more
personal experience in such matters than myself, had received from some one a chapter of instructions
about traveling--a kind of traveler's guide--and as she did not wish to be so selfish as to
keep all her knowledge for her own use, she very freely gave away some of it for my benefit.

"When you travel," said my instructor, "you must not be too modest and retiring. You must always
help yourself to the best things that come within your reach, as if you considered them yours,
as a matter of course. If you only act as if you think yourself a person of consequence, you
will be treated as such. But if you stand one side, and seem to think that anything is good
enough for you, every one will be sure to think so too. It is as much as saying that you don't
think yourself of much importance. Others, of course, will conclude that you ought to be the
best judge, and that you are a sort of nobody, who may be disposed of to suit anybody's convenience."

Now as these items of advice were given as the result of the experience of those who had seen
a great deal of the world, and as I was very ready to admit my own ignorance, I resolved to
lay up these hints for future service, when I should travel again.

The time came, at length, for another journey. The stage, which passed regularly through our
village once a day, accommodating those who wished to go north one day, and those who wished
to go south the next, picked me and my baggage up, at my father's door. A very young lady,
an acquaintance of mine, and two stranger gentlemen, were the only passengers besides myself,
until we reached the next town, five miles distant, where we stopped to change horses. When
we got into the coach again, at this place, we found a new passenger safely stowed away in
one corner of the back seat.

This passenger was an old lady, of a class sometimes found in our country villages, who are
aunts to everybody, and claim the greater part of the younger portion of the community as sheer
boys and girls. It seems the driver was one of her boys, and, on account of his being so nearly
related, she claimed a free passage. She was already there, and the driver had to choose between
these two things--either to admit her claim, or to turn her out. He wisely concluded to make
a virtue of necessity. It would not answer to be rude to Aunt Polly, he thought. Some of the
other nephews and nieces might think him cruel.

But there was another question to be settled. She had possession of the back seat. This would
hardly do on the strength of a free ticket, when it was claimed by those who had paid their
passage.

"You must get up, Aunt Polly," said the driver, "and let these ladies have the back seat."

But Aunt Polly, alas! declared, in the most positive manner, that she could not ride on the
middle seat.

"Yes you can," said the driver, "and you must; so get up."

But Aunt Polly was by no means easily moved. She still, to the no small vexation of the driver,
kept on saying that she could not ride on the middle seat. In this state of things one of the
gentlemen undertook the task of settling matters, and, addressing me, inquired which seat I
preferred. All the instructions which I had received at once rushed to my mind. Now was the
time to put them in practice--to let it be known that I was not going to give up my seat to
any one, certainly not to one who had no claim to it. So drawing myself up to my full height--which
was nothing to boast of, by the way--I answered with becoming dignity, "I prefer the back seat,
sir."

He then turned to my companion, and said, "Which seat do you prefer?"

"It makes no difference with me, sir," was the modest reply.

A smile passed over the face of the gentleman--a smile which evidently indicated one of two
things; either that he thought my companion showed her ignorance of the world, in making herself
of so little consequence, and seeming to say, "You may do what you please with me;" or he thought
my reply very old for one of my years. Which was it? Ah, that was the question. I could not
forget that peculiar smile. In fact, you see I have not forgotten it yet. It seemed to mean
something; but what did it mean? Oh, how I wanted to know exactly what it meant, and how carefully
I watched, to see if I could not find out.

The matter of seats was soon arranged to the satisfaction of all parties. The old lady and
myself had the back seat, while my companion took the middle seat. I observed that the above-named
gentleman passenger offered several polite attentions to my companion, while he did not seem
to notice me at all, although I had let him know that I was a person of so much consequence.
This might be accounted for by the fact that she was seated very near him, while my seat was
more distant, or there might be some other cause for it.

The opinion of a stranger whom I never expected again to meet, was not in itself of any great
importance; yet it certainly had a bearing on the question whether or not my traveling instructions
were of the right kind. If they were, my answer was certainly the right one, and calculated
to make a favorable impression upon the minds of my fellow passengers. But when I tried to
look at the affair in this light, I was disturbed by a secret thought that I should have had
a more comfortable feeling of self-respect, if I had given up the back seat--for which, after
all, I did not care a straw--to an aged female, who really thought she could not ride on the
middle seat.

When I returned home, I related the incident to Miss Tompkins, the seamstress whose directions
I had undertaken to follow, and also frankly owned that I was not quite sure which reply had
caused that peculiar smile. She assured me there could be no doubt on that point. "The gentleman
was amused at the ignorance of the world which that other girl showed. He thought she was not
much, or she would not so readily step aside, and give up her rights to any one who might choose
to claim them."

But I was by no means convinced of the truth of this statement of the case; and when I was
a little older, I came to such conclusions on the subject that I believe I have never tried,
since that time, to establish my claim to be a person of consequence by similar means.

Indeed, to tell the truth, I have not thought much of the wisdom of these instructions, from
that day to this; and I certainly would not recommend to you, my young friend, that which I
have turned out of my own service, as useless lumber. Seriously, I do not think you will ever
suffer in the opinion of your fellow travelers, by being kind and obliging, and showing that
you do not think yourself of so much consequence as to forget there is any one else in the
world. When a person takes pains to impress others with a sense of his importance, it almost
always excites a suspicion that he is trying to pass for something more than he really is.
It does not require all this show and pretension to keep the place which really belongs to
him, and to attempt more than this, will only draw upon him neglect and contempt.

To this chapter in the experience of Aunt Kate, I feel very much like adding a word or two,
"by way of improvement," as the ministers say. But on second thought, I guess it will be as
well to let you use the diving bell, and see if you cannot bring out the improvement yourselves.

VI.

"TRY THE OTHER END."

The other day I came across a man who was tugging with all his might at the wrong end of a
lever. That is, he had a great crowbar, almost as large as he could lift, and was bearing down
on one end of it, while the block of wood which he had put under it for a purchase, was at
the same end. He was trying to pry up a large stone in that way. But the stone would not be
pryed up. It was a very obstinate stone, the good old farmer thought. He had no notion of giving
up the project, however. So he pulled off his coat, rolled up his sleeves, and went to work
in right good earnest. Still the stone did not stir; or if it did it was only just enough to
aggravate the man.

What could be the matter? The stone was not a very large one. It did not look as if it could
stand a great deal of prying. What was the matter?

There happened to be a school-boy passing that way at the time. He was not much of a farmer,
and still less of a mechanic, I should think; but he thought he saw what the trouble was. It
did not seem to be so much the lever itself, or the farmer, or the stone to be moved, as in
the way the man went to work. The boy ventured to hint this idea to the farmer:

"Why, my dear sir," he said, "there is no use in your breaking your neck in that style. You
are at the wrong end of the lever. You haven't purchase enough."

The good-natured farmer (for he was good-natured, and did not get into a passion because a
mere boy, young enough to be his grand-child, attempted to help him out of his difficulty)
the good-natured farmer stopped a moment, looked at the matter carefully, and frankly acknowledged
that he had gone the wrong way to work.

"I wonder what on earth I was thinking of," said he, in his usual blunt language. Of course
he shifted his crow-bar immediately, so as to get a good purchase. The trouble was all over
then. The stone came up easily enough, of course.

It came into my mind while I was thinking about this farmer's mistake in the use of his lever,
that certain people--myself included, perhaps--might profit by this blunder.

