The lady was not really hurt at all.  Swope's bullet plowed through her mass of hair, creasing
her so lightly the skin was unbroken, though the impact knocked her down.

I was almost the only man on the ship who bore no marks of that fight, though I was a sight
from the beating, and Lynch--or perhaps it was Newman--made me bo'sun of the deck in the labor
of bringing order out of chaos.  I rallied the unhurt and lightly hurt, and we carried the
worse injured into the cabin, where the lady and Newman attended them. I opened the barricaded
galley, and freed the frightened Chinamen, Wong and the cook and the cabin boy, and Holy Joe,
the parson.  As I learned afterwards, Holy Joe, when he learned of the intended mutiny, threatened,
in vain attempt to stop it, to go aft and blow the plot. Blackie and Boston wanted to kill
him for the threat, but the squareheads would not have it so, and he was shut up in the galley
with the Chinamen.

By Lynch's order, we launched the dinghy, and, with me at the tiller and two lordly tradesmen
at the oars, set out in humane but hopeless quest for the mate and the Nigger.  I cruised about
for nigh an hour, and came back empty-handed.  We had not really expected to find them, or
trace of them.  Fitzgibbon had been stabbed, and it was known, also, that he did not know how
to swim; and as for the Nigger, "I plugged him as he jumped," said Lynch.

When we got back, Lynch had me muster the available hands, and we launched the longboat.  All
the rest of the night, Wong and his two under-servants cargoed that craft with stores of every
kind.

One other man had lost his mess number in that ship, we discovered, as the night wore on. 
The traitor.  We found not hide or hair of Cockney; he was gone from the ship, leaving no trace.
At least, no trace I could discover.  But when I looked for him, I became conscious of a new
attitude towards me on the part of my shipmates.  I had been their mate, in a way their leader
and champion.  Now, by virtue of Lynch's word--and Newman's--I was their boss.  I was no longer
one of them. Aye, and sailorlike they showed it by their reserve.  They said truthfully enough
they did not know what had become of Cockney--and they kept their guesses to themselves.  But
my own guess was as good, and as true.  Boston and Blackie had attended to Cockney.  I could
imagine how.  A knife across the windpipe and a boost over the side; without doubt some such
fate was Cockney's.

Mister Lynch made no effort to put the ship on her course.  We left the yards as they were,
and drifted all the rest of the night.  I, and the unwounded tradesmen, kept the deck; in the
cabin, the lady and Newman labored, and conferred with Lynch and Holy Joe.  Aye, Holy Joe,
as well as myself, was lifted to higher estate by that night's happenings.  He lived aft, even
as I, the rest of the voyage, and was doctor of bodies as well as souls.

Near dawn, they called me into the cabin, and put dead man's shoes upon my feet, so to speak.

"Shreve, it is my duty to take the ship into port," says Lynch.  "What will be the outcome
of tonight's work, I do not know.  But I do not fear.  My testimony, and that of the sailmakers
and carpenters, to say nothing of your story, and the stories of the other men forward, will
be more than sufficient to convince any court of justice.  There will be no jailing because
of to-night's trouble--you may tell the men that."

"Yes, sir," I replied.  Aye, it was good news to take forward to the poor shaking wretches
in the foc'sle.

"You understand, I am captain for the remainder of the passage," Lynch went on.  "And I have
decided to appoint you chief mate.  Connolly will be second mate."

Aye, that was it.  Jack Shreve, chief mate of the Golden Bough!  "I have decided," says Lynch--but
I knew the decision belonged to Newman and the lady, who were smiling at me across the table.

"And you understand--they are leaving in the longboat," added Lynch.

I looked at my friend, and the lady, and my new honor was bitter and worthless in my mouth.

"Take me with you," I urged.

"To share an outlaw's career?  No, lad--we must go alone," said Newman. I remember he added
to Lynch, "If this boy proves the friend to you he was to me, you will be a lucky man, Captain."

The sky was just graying with the coming day when the two left the ship.  But before they went
over the side, there took place in the growing light on the deck before the cabin a scene as
strange and solemn as any I have seen since.  Holy Joe married them, there on the deck--and
in the scuppers, behind the lady's back, covered up with a spare sail, lay the ship's dead,
Yankee Swope among them.  Aye, the parson tied the knot, for this life and next, as he said,
and I was best man, and Captain Lynch gave away the bride.

"Roy Waldon, do you take this woman--" that was the way the parson put it, standing there before
them, with his one good hand holding the Book, peering up into Newman's face through his puffed,
blackened eyes. A minister in dungaree!  "Mary Swope, do you take this man--" that was how
he put it.  And though the lady's face was wan and haggard, yet there was a glory in it beyond
power to describe.

And then they cast off from the ship, those two who were now one. Newman stepped the mast,
and drew aft the sheet, and the little craft caught the breeze and scudded away from us.  We
lined the rail, lame men and well men, and cheered our farewell.  I wept.

A long time we watched them.  The sun leaped up from the sea, and the longboat seemed to sail
into its golden heart; and after the sun had risen above it, the boat was visible for a long
time as a dwindling, ever dwindling speck.  I moved up onto the poop, the longer to see.  So
did Lynch.  Side by side, we watched the speck dip over the rim of the sea.

Lynch sighed, and walked away.  I heard him exclaim, and turned to observe him picking up something
from the deck.  He held it out to me, in the palm of his hand.

It was a little wisp of hair, the lady's hair, a relic of the battle. Lynch stared at it--then
he looked out over the sea, into the path of the sun.  Aye, and there was that in his eyes
which opened mine.  I began at last to understand Bucko Lynch--"Captain" Lynch as he was to
remain to the end of his days.  I knew from that look in his eyes why no parson would now ever
say to him, "Do you take this woman?"

Slowly, Lynch put the little wisp of hair into his waistcoat pocket. He drew a deep breath,
and shrugged his shoulders; then he hailed me with seamanly brusqueness.

"Lively, now, Mister--we'll put the ship on her course!"

"Yes, Captain," I answered.  And the "Mister" roared his first command along those decks.