The progress of reason, and free cultivation of the human mind, had not, however, entirely
banished those ridiculous sects and schisms of which the kingdom had been formerly so productive.
Imposture and fanaticism still hung upon the skirts of religion. Weak minds were seduced by
the delusion of a superstition styled Methodism, raised upon the affectation of superior sanctity,
and maintained by pretensions to divine illumination. Many thousands in the lower ranks of
life were infected with this species of enthusiasm, by the unwearied endeavours of a few obscure
preachers, such as Whitfield and the two Wesleys, who propagated their doctrine to the most
remote corners of the British dominions, and found means to lay the whole kingdom under contribution.
Fanaticism also formed a league with false philosophy. One Hutchinson, a visionary, intoxicated
with the fumes of rabbinical learning, pretended to deduce all demonstration from Hebrew roots,
and to confine all human knowledge to the five books of Moses. His disciples became numerous
after his death. With the methodists, they denied the merit of good-works, and bitterly inveighed
against Newton as an ignorant pretender, who had presumed to set up his own ridiculous chimeras
in opposition to the sacred philosophy of the Pentateuch. But the most extraordinary sect which
distinguished this reign was that of the Moravians, or Hernhutters, imported from Germany by
count Zinzendorf, who might have been termed the Melchisedec of his followers, inasmuch as
he assumed among them the threefold character of prophet, priest, and king. They could not
be so properly styled a sect, as the disciples of an original, who had invented a new system
of religion. Their chief adoration was paid to the second person in the Trinity; the first
they treated with the most shocking neglect. Some of their tenets were blasphemous, some indecent,
and others ridiculously absurd. Their discipline was a strange mixture of devotion and impurity.
Their exterior worship consisted of hymns, prayers, and sermons; the hymns extremely ludicrous,
and often indecent, alluding to the side-hole or wound which Christ received from a spear in
his side while he remained upon the cross. Their sermons frequently contained very gross incentives
to the work of propagation. Their private exercises are said to have abounded with such rites
and mysteries, as we cannot explain with any regard to decorum. They professed a community
of goods, and were governed as one family, in temporals as well as spirituals, by a council
or kind of presbytery, in which the count, as their ordinary, presided. In cases of doubt,
or great consequence, these pretended to consult the Saviour, and to decide from immediate
inspiration; so that they boasted of being under the immediate direction of a theocracy, though
in fact they were slaves to the most dangerous kind of despotism; for as often as any individual
of the community pretended to think for himself, or differ in opinion from the ordinary and
his band of associates, the oracle decreed that he should be instantly sent upon the mission
which they had fixed in Greenland, or to the colony they had established in Pennsylvania. As
these religionists consisted chiefly of manufacturers who appeared very sober, orderly, and
industrious; and their chief declared his intention of prosecuting works of public emolument;
they obtained a settlement under a parliamentary sanction in England, where they soon made
a considerable number of proselytes, before their principles were fully discovered and explained.

METAPHYSICS AND MEDICINE.

Many ingenious treatises on metaphysics and morality appeared in the course of this reign,
and a philosophical spirit of inquiry diffused itself to the farthest extremities of the united
kingdom. Though few discoveries of importance were made in medicine, yet that art was well
understood in all its different branches, and many of its professors distinguished themselves
in other provinces of literature. Besides the medical essays of London and Edinburgh, the physician's
library was enriched with many useful modern productions; with the works of the classical Freind,
the elegant Mead, the accurate Huxham, and the philosophical Pringle. The art of midwifery
was elucidated by science, reduced to fixed principles, and almost wholly consigned into the
hands of men practitioners. The researches of anatomy were prosecuted to some curious discoveries,
by the ingenuity and dexterity of a Hunter and a Monro. The numerous hospitals in London contributed
to the improvement of surgery, which was brought to perfection under the auspices of a Cheselden
and a Sharpe. The advantages of agriculture, which had long flourished in England, extended
themselves gradually to the most remote and barren provinces of the island.

MECHANICS.

The mechanic powers were well understood, and judiciously applied to many useful machines of
necessity and convenience. The mechanical arts had attained to all that perfection which they
were capable of acquiring; but the avarice and oppressions of contractors obliged the handicraftsman
to exert his ingenuity, not in finishing his work well, but in affording it cheap; in purchasing
bad materials, and performing his task in a hurry; in concealing flaws, substituting show for
solidity, and sacrificing reputation to the thirst of lucre. Thus, many of the English manufactures,
being found slight and unserviceable, grew into discredit abroad; thus the art of producing
them more perfect may in time be totally lost at home. The cloths now made in England are inferior
in texture and fabric to those which were manufactured in the beginning of the century; and
the same judgment may be pronounced upon almost every article of hardware. The razors, knives,
scissors, hatchets, swords, and other edge-utensils, prepared for exportation, are generally
ill-tempered, half finished, flawed, or brittle; and the muskets, which are sold for seven
or eight shillings a-piece to the exporter, so carelessly and unconscientiously prepared, that
they cannot be used without imminent danger of mutilation: accordingly, one hardly meets with
a negro man upon the coast of Guinea, in the neighbourhood of the British settlements, who
has not been wounded or maimed in some member by the bursting of the English fire-arms. The
advantages of this traffic, carried on at the expense of character and humanity, will naturally
cease, whenever those Africans can be supplied more honestly by the traders of any other nation.

GENIUS.

