2680. WARTS.--Eisenberg says, in his "Advice on the Hand," that the hydrochlorate of lime is
the most certain means of destroying warts; the process, however, is very slow, and demands
perseverance, for, if discontinued before the proper time, no advantage is gained. The following
is a simple cure:--On breaking the stalk of the crowfoot plant in two, a drop of milky juice
will be observed to hang on the upper part of the stem; if this be allowed to drop on a wart,
so that it be well saturated with the juice, in about three or four dressings the warts will
die, and may be taken off with the fingers. They may be removed by the above means from the
teats of cows, where they are sometimes very troublesome, and prevent them standing quiet to
be milked. The wart touched lightly every second day with lunar caustic, or rubbed every night
with blue-stone, for a few weeks, will destroy the largest wart, wherever situated.

2681. To CURE A WHITLOW.--As soon as the whitlow has risen distinctly, a pretty large piece
should be snipped out, so that the watery matter may readily escape, and continue to flow out
as fast as produced. A bread-and-water poultice should be put on for a few days, when the wound
should be bound up lightly with some mild ointment, when a cure will be speedily completed.
Constant poulticing both before and after the opening of the whitlow, is the only practice
needed; but as the matter lies deep, when it is necessary to open the abscess, the incision
must be made deep to reach the suppuration.

2682. WOUNDS.--There are several kinds of wounds, which are called by different names, according
to their appearance, or the manner in which they are produced. As, however, it would be useless,
and even hurtful, to bother the reader's head with too many nice professional distinctions,
we shall content ourselves with dividing wounds into three classes.

2683. 1. Incised wounds or cuts--those produced by a knife, or some sharp instrument.

2684. 2. Lacerated, or torn wounds--those produced by the claws of an animal, the bite of a
dog, running quickly against some projecting blunt object, such as a nail, &c.

2685. 3. Punctured or penetrating wounds--those produced by anything running deeply into the
flesh; such as a sword, a sharp nail, a spike, the point of a bayonet, &c.

2686. Class 1. Incised wounds or cuts.--The danger arising from these accidents is owing more
to their position than to their extent. Thus, a cut of half an inch long, which goes through
an artery, is more serious than a cut of two inches long, which is not near one. Again, a small
cut on the head is more often followed by dangerous symptoms than a much larger one on the
legs.--Treatment. If the cut is not a very large one, and no artery or vein is wounded, this
is very simple. If there are any foreign substances left in the wound, they must be taken out,
and the bleeding must be quite stopped before the wound is strapped up. If the bleeding is
not very great, it may easily be stopped by raising the cut part, and applying rags dipped
in cold water to it. All clots of blood must be carefully removed; for, if they are left behind,
they prevent the wound from healing. When the bleeding has been stopped, and the wound perfectly
cleaned, its two edges are to be brought closely together by thin straps of common adhesive
plaster, which should remain on, if there is not great pain or heat about the part, for two
or three days, without being removed. The cut part should be kept raised and cool. When the
strips of plaster are to be taken off, they should first be well bathed with lukewarm water.
This will cause them to come away easily, and without opening the lips of the wound; which
accident is very likely to take place, if they are pulled off without having been first moistened
with the warm water. If the wound is not healed when the strips of plaster are taken off, fresh
ones must be applied. Great care is required in treating cuts of the head, as they are often
followed by erysipelas taking place round them. They should be strapped with isinglass plaster,
which is much less irritating than the ordinary adhesive plaster. Only use as many strips as
are actually requisite to keep the two edges of the wound together; keep the patient quite
quiet, on low diet, for a week or so, according to his symptoms. Purge him well with the No.
2 pills (five grains of blue pill mixed with the same quantity of compound extract of colocynth;
make into two pills, the dose for an adult). If the patient is feverish, give him two tablespoonfuls
of the fever-mixture three times a day. His bowels should be kept constantly open, and all
excitement and excess avoided. When a vein or artery is wounded, the danger is, of course,
much greater. Those accidents, therefore, should always be attended to by a surgeon, if he
can possibly be procured. Before he arrives, however, or in case his assistance cannot be obtained
at all, the following treatment should be adopted:--Raise the cut part, and press rags dipped
in cold water firmly against it. This will often be sufficient to stop the bleeding, if the
divided artery or vein is not dangerous. When an artery is divided, the blood is of a bright
red colour, and comes away in jets. In this case, and supposing the leg or arm to be the cut
part, a handkerchief is to be tied tightly round the limb above the cut; and, if possible,
the two bleeding ends of the artery should each be tied with a piece of silk. If the bleeding
is from a vein, the blood is much darker, and does not come away in jets. In this case, the
handkerchief is to be tied below the cut, and a pad of lint or linen pressed firmly against
the divided ends of the vein. Let every bad cut, especially where there is much bleeding, and
even although it may to all appearance have been stopped, be attended to by a surgeon, if one
can by any means be obtained.

2687. Class 2. Lacerated or torn wounds.--There is not so much bleeding in these cases as in
clean cuts, because the blood-vessels are torn across in a zigzag manner, and not divided straight
across. In other respects, however, they are more serious than ordinary cuts, being often followed
by inflammation, mortification, fever, and in some cases by locked-jaw. Foreign substances
are also more likely to remain in them.--Treatment. Stop the bleeding, if there is any, in
the manner directed for cuts; remove all substances that may be in the wound; keep the patient
quite quiet, and on low diet--gruel, arrowroot, and the like; purge with the No. 1 pills and
the No. 1 mixture. If possible, bring the two edges of the wound together, but do not strain
the parts to do this. If they cannot be brought together, on account of a piece of flesh being
taken clean out, or the raggedness of their edges, put lint dipped in cold water over the wound,
and cover it with oiled silk. It will then fill up from the bottom. If the wound, after being
well washed, should still contain any sand, or grit of any kind, or if it should get red and
hot from inflammation, a large warm bread poultice will be the best thing to apply until it
becomes quite clean, or the inflammation goes down. When the wound is a very large one, the
application of warm poppy fomentations is better than that of the lint dipped in cold water.
If the redness and pain about the part, and the general feverish symptoms, are great, from
eight to twelve leeches are to be applied round the wound, and a warm poppy fomentation or
warm bread poultice applied after they drop off.

2688. Class 3. Punctured or penetrating wounds.--These, for many reasons, are the most serious
of all kinds of wounds.--Treatment. The same as that for lacerated wounds. Pus (matter) often
forms at the bottom of these wounds, which should, therefore, be kept open at the top, by separating
their edges every morning with a bodkin, and applying a warm bread poultice immediately afterwards.
They will then, in all probability, heal up from the bottom, and any matter which may form
will find its own way out into the poultice. Sometimes, however, in spite of all precautions,
collections of matter (abscesses) will form at the bottom or sides of the wound. Those are
to be opened with a lancet, and the matter thus let out. When matter is forming, the patient
has cold shiverings, throbbing pain in the part, and flushes on the face, which come and go.
A swelling of the part is also often seen. The matter in the abscesses may be felt to move
backwards and forwards, when pressure is made from one side of the swelling to the other with
the first and second fingers (the middle and that next the thumb) of each hand.

MEDICAL MEMORANDA.

2689. ADVANTAGES OF CLEANLINESS.--Health and strength cannot be long continued unless the skin--all
the skin--is washed frequently with a sponge or other means. Every morning is best; after which
the skin should be rubbed very well with a rough cloth. This is the most certain way of preventing
cold, and a little substitute for exercise, as it brings blood to the surface, and causes it
to circulate well through the fine capillary vessels. Labour produces this circulation naturally.
The insensible perspiration cannot escape well if the skin is not clean, as the pores get choked
up. It is said that in health about half the aliment we take passes out through the skin.

2690. THE TOMATO MEDICINAL.--To many persons there is something unpleasant, not to say offensive,
in the flavour of this excellent fruit. It has, however, long been used for culinary purposes
in various countries of Europe. Dr. Bennett, a professor of some celebrity, considers it an
invaluable article of diet, and ascribes to it very important medicinal properties. He declares:--1.
That the tomato is one of the most powerful deobstruents of the materia medica; and that, in
all those affections of the liver and other organs where calomel is indicated, it is probably
the most effective and least harmful remedial agent known in the profession. 2. That a chemical
extract can be obtained from it, which will altogether supersede the use of calomel in the
cure of diseases. 3. That he has successfully treated diarrhoea with this article alone. 4.
That when used as an article of diet, it is almost a sovereign remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion.

2691. WARM WATER.--Warm water is preferable to cold water, as a drink, to persons who are subject
to dyspeptic and bilious complaints, and it may be taken more freely than cold water, and consequently
answers better as a diluent for carrying off bile, and removing obstructions in the urinary
secretion, in cases of stone and gravel. When water of a temperature equal to that of the human
body is used for drink, it proves considerably stimulant, and is particularly suited to dyspeptic,
bilious, gouty, and chlorotic subjects.

2692. CAUTIONS IN VISITING SICK-ROOMS.--Never venture into a sick-room if you are in a violent
perspiration (if circumstances require your continuance there), for the moment your body becomes
cold, it is in a state likely to absorb the infection, and give you the disease. Nor visit
a sick person (especially if the complaint be of a contagious nature) with an empty stomach;
as this disposes the system more readily to receive the contagion. In attending a sick person,
place yourself where the air passes from the door or window to the bed of the diseased, not
betwixt the diseased person and any fire that is in the room, as the heat of the fire will
draw the infectious vapour in that direction, and you would run much danger from breathing it.

2693. NECESSITY OF GOOD VENTILATION IN ROOMS LIGHTED WITH GAS.--In dwelling-houses lighted
by gas, the frequent renewal of the air is of great importance. A single gas-burner will consume
more oxygen, and produce more carbonic acid to deteriorate the atmosphere of a room, than six
or eight candles. If, therefore, when several burners are used, no provision is made for the
escape of the corrupted air and for the introduction of pure air from without, the health will
necessarily suffer.

LEGAL MEMORANDA.

CHAPTER XLIV.

2694. Humorists tell us there is no act of our lives which can be performed without breaking
through some one of the many meshes of the law by which our rights are so carefully guarded;
and those learned in the law, when they do give advice without the usual fee, and in the confidence
of friendship, generally say, "Pay, pay anything rather than go to law;" while those having
experience in the courts of Themis have a wholesome dread of its pitfalls. There are a few
exceptions, however, to this fear of the law's uncertainties; and we hear of those to whom
a lawsuit is on agreeable relaxation, a gentle excitement. One of this class, when remonstrated
with, retorted, that while one friend kept dogs, and another horses, he, as he had a right
to do, kept a lawyer; and no one had a right to dispute his taste. We cannot pretend, in these
few pages, to lay down even the principles of law, not to speak of its contrary exposition
in different courts; but there are a few acts of legal import which all men--and women too--must
perform; and to these acts we may be useful in giving a right direction. There is a house to
be leased or purchased, servants to be engaged, a will to be made, or property settled, in
all families; and much of the welfare of its members depends on these things being done in
proper legal form.

2695. PURCHASING A HOUSE.--Few men will venture to purchase a freehold, or even a leasehold
property, by private contract, without making themselves acquainted with the locality, and
employing a solicitor to examine the titles,; but many do walk into an auction-room, and bid
for a property upon the representations of the auctioneer. The conditions, whatever they are,
will bind him; for by one of the legal fictions of which we have still so many, the auctioneer,
who is in reality the agent for the vendor, becomes also the agent for the buyer, and by putting
down the names of bidders and the biddings, he binds him to whom the lot is knocked down to
the sale and the conditions,--the falling of the auctioneer's hammer is the acceptance of the
offer, which completes the agreement to purchase. In any such transaction you can only look
at the written or printed particulars; any verbal statement of the auctioneer, made at the
time of the sale, cannot contradict them, and they are implemented by the agreement, which
the auctioneer calls on the purchaser to sign after the sale. You should sign no such contract
without having a duplicate of it signed by the auctioneer, and delivered to you. It is, perhaps,
unnecessary to add, that no trustee or assignee can purchase property for himself included
in the trust, even at auction; nor is it safe to pay the purchase money to an agent of the
vendor, unless he give a written authority to the agent to receive it, besides handing over
the requisite deeds and receipts.

2696. The laws of purchase and sale of property are so complicated that Lord St. Leonards devotes
five chapters of his book on Property Law to the subject. The only circumstances strong enough
to vitiate a purchase, which has been reduced to a written contract, is proof of fraudulent
representation as to an encumbrance of which the buyer was ignorant, or a defect in title;
but every circumstance which the purchaser might have learned by careful investigation, the
law presumes that he did know. Thus, in buying a leasehold estate or house, all the covenants
of the original lease are presumed to be known. "It is not unusual," says Lord St. Leonards,
"to stipulate, in conditions of sale of leasehold property, that the production of a receipt
for the last year's rent shall be accepted as proof that all the lessor's covenants were performed
up to that period. Never bid for one clogged with such a condition. There are some acts against
which no relief can be obtained; for example, the tenant's right to insure, or his insuring
in an office or in names not authorized in the lease. And you should not rely upon the mere
fact of the insurance being correct at the time of sale: there may have been a prior breach
of covenant, and the landlord may not have waived his right of entry for the forfeiture." And
where any doubt of this kind exists, the landlord should be appealed to.

2697. Interest on a purchase is due from the day fixed upon for completing: where it cannot
be completed, the loss rests with the party with whom the delay rests; but it appears, when
the delay rests with the seller, and the money is lying idle, notice of that is to be given
to the seller to make him liable to the loss of interest. In law, the property belongs to the
purchaser from the date of the contract; he is entitled to any benefit, and must bear any loss;
the seller may suffer the insurance to drop without giving notice; and should a fire take place,
the loss falls on the buyer. In agreeing to buy a house, therefore, provide at the same time
for its insurance. Common fixtures pass with the house, where nothing is said about them.

2698. There are some well-recognized laws, of what may be called good-neighbourhood, which
affect all properties. If you purchase a field or house, the seller retaining another field
between yours and the highway, he must of necessity grant you a right of way. Where the owner
of more than one house sells one of them, the purchaser is entitled to benefit by all drains
leading from his house into other drains, and will be subject to all necessary drains for the
adjoining houses, although there is no express reservation as to drains.

Thus, if his happens to be a leading drain, other necessary drains may be opened into it. In
purchasing land for building on, you should expressly reserve a right to make an opening into
any sewer or watercourse on the vendor's land for drainage purposes.

2699. CONSTRUCTIONS.--Among the cautions which purchasers of houses, land, or leaseholds, should
keep in view, is a not inconsiderable array of constructive notices, which are equally binding
with actual ones. Notice to your attorney or agent is notice to you; and when the same attorney
is employed by both parties, and he is aware of an encumbrance of which you are ignorant, you
are bound by it; even where the vendor is guilty of a fraud to which your agent is privy, you
are responsible, and cannot be released from the consequences.

2700. THE RELATIONS OF LANDLORD AND TENANT are most important to both parties, and each should
clearly understand his position. The proprietor of a house, or house and land, agrees to let
it either to a tenant-at-will, a yearly tenancy, or under lease. A tenancy-at-will may be created
by parol or by agreement; and as the tenant may be turned out when his landlord pleases, so
he may leave when he himself thinks proper; but this kind of tenancy is extremely inconvenient
to both parties. Where an annual rent is attached to the tenancy, in construction of law, a
lease or agreement without limitation to any certain period is a lease from year to year, and
both landlord and tenant are entitled to notice before the tenancy can be determined by the
other. This notice must be given at least six months before the expiration of the current year
of the tenancy, and it can only terminate at the end of any whole year from the time at which
it began; so that the tenant entering into possession at Midsummer, the notice must be given
to or by him, so as to terminate at the same term. When once he is in possession, he has a
right to remain for a whole year; and if no notice be given at the end of the first half-year
of his tenancy, he will have to remain two years, and so on for any number of years.

2701. TENANCY BY SUFFERANCE.--This is a tenancy, not very uncommon, arising out of the unwillingness
of either party to take the initiative in a more decided course at the expiry of a lease or
agreement. The tenant remains in possession, and continues to pay rent as before, and becomes,
from sufferance, a tenant from year to year, which can only be terminated by one party or the
other giving the necessary six months' notice to quit at the term corresponding with the commencement
of the original tenancy. This tenancy at sufferance applies also to an under-tenant, who remains
in possession and pays rent to the reversioner or head landlord. A six months' notice will
be insufficient for this tenancy. A notice was given (in Right v. Darby, I.T.R. 159) to quit
a house held by plaintiff as tenant from year to year, on the 17th June, 1840, requiring him
"to quit the premises on the 11th October following, or such other day as his said tenancy
might expire." The tenancy had commenced on the 11th October in a former year, but it was held
that this was not a good notice for the year ending October 11, 1841. A tenant from year to
year gave his landlord notice to quit, ending the tenancy at a time within the half-year; the
landlord acquiesced at first, but afterwards refused to accept the notice. The tenant quitted
the premises; the landlord entered, and even made some repairs, but it was afterwards held
that the tenancy was not determined. A notice to quit must be such as the tenant may safely
act on at the time of receiving it; therefore it can only be given by an agent properly authorized
at the time, and cannot be made good by the landlord adopting it afterwards. An unqualified
notice, given at the proper time, should conclude with "On failure whereof, I shall require
you to pay me double the former rent for so long as you retain possession."

2702. LEASES.--A lease is an instrument in writing, by which one person grants to another the
occupation and use of lands or tenements for a term of years for a consideration, the lessor
granting the lease, and the lessee accepting it with all its conditions. A lessor may grant
the lease for any term less than his own interest. A tenant for life in an estate can only
grant a lease for his own life. A tenant for life, having power to grant a lease, should grant
it only in the terms of the power, otherwise the lease is void, and his estate may be made
to pay heavy penalties under the covenant, usually the only one onerous on the lessor, for
quiet enjoyment. The proprietor of a freehold--that is, of the possession in perpetuity of
lands or tenements--may grant a lease for 999 years, for 99 years, or for 3 years. In the latter
case, the lease may be either verbal or in writing, no particular form and no stamps being
necessary, except the usual stamp on agreements; so long as the intention of the parties is
clearly expressed, and the covenants definite, and well understood by each party, the agreement
is complete, and the law satisfied. In the case of settled estates, the court of Chancery is
empowered to authorize leases under the 19 & 20 Vict. c. 120, and 21 & 22 Vict. c. 77, as follows:--

  21 years for agriculture or occupation.
  40 years for water-power.
  99 years for building-leases.
  60 years for repairing-leases.

