CHAPTER IV

THE DAWN OF LOVE

Winter had come, and with it all the inclement accompaniments usual in this bleak and bitter
mountainous country: icy rains, which, mingled with sleet, washed away whirlpools of withered
leaves that the swollen streams tossed noisily into the ravines; sharp, cutting winds from
the north, bleak frosts hardening the earth and vitrifying the cascades; abundant falls of
snow, lasting sometimes an entire week.  The roads had become impassable.  A thick, white crust
covered alike the pasture-lands, the stony levels, and the wooded slopes, where the branches
creaked under the weight of their snowy burdens.  A profound silence encircled the village,
which seemed buried under the successive layers of snowdrifts.  Only here and there, occasionally,
did a thin line of blue smoke, rising from one of the white roofs, give evidence of any latent
life among the inhabitants.  The Chateau de Buxieres stood in the midst of a vast carpet of
snow on which the sabots of the villagers had outlined a narrow path, leading from the outer
steps to the iron gate.  Inside, fires blazed on all the hearths, which, however, did not modify
the frigid atmosphere of the rudely-built upper rooms.

Julien de Buxieres was freezing, both physically and morally, in his abode.  His generous conduct
toward Claudet had, in truth, gained him the affection of the 'grand chasserot', made Manette
as gentle as a lamb, and caused a revulsion of feeling in his favor throughout the village;
but, although his material surroundings had become more congenial, he still felt around him
the chill of intellectual solitude.  The days also seemed longer since Claudet had taken upon
himself the management of all details.  Julien found that re-reading his favorite books was
not sufficient occupation for the weary hours that dragged slowly along between the rising
and the setting of the sun.  The gossipings of Manette, the hunting stories of Claudet had
no interest for young de Buxieres, and the acquaintances he endeavored to make outside left
only a depressing feeling of ennui and disenchantment.

His first visit had been made to the cure of Vivey, where he hoped to meet with some intellectual
resources, and a tone of conversation more in harmony with his tastes.  In this expectation,
also, he had been disappointed.  The Abbe Pernot was an amiable quinquagenarian, and a 'bon
vivant', whose mind inclined more naturally toward the duties of daily life than toward meditation
or contemplative studies.  The ideal did not worry him in the least; and when he had said his
mass, read his breviary, confessed the devout sinners and visited the sick, he gave the rest
of his time to profane but respectable amusements.  He was of robust temperament, with a tendency
to corpulency, which he fought against by taking considerable exercise; his face was round
and good-natured, his calm gray eyes reflected the tranquillity and uprightness of his soul,
and his genial nature was shown in his full smiling mouth, his thick, wavy, gray hair, and
his quick and cordial gestures.

When Julien was ushered into the presbytery, he found the cure installed in a small room, which
he used for working in, and which was littered up with articles bearing a very distant connection
to his pious calling: nets for catching larks, hoops and other nets for fishing, stuffed birds,
and a collection of coleopterx.  At the other end of the room stood a dusty bookcase, containing
about a hundred volumes, which seemed to have been seldom consulted.  The Abbe, sitting on
a low chair in the chimney- corner, his cassock raised to his knees, was busy melting glue
in an old earthen pot.

