There is no hold by which an Englishman is sooner taken than that of compassion -- We were
immediately interested in behalf of this veteran. Even Tabby's heart was melted; but our pity
was warmed with indignation, when we learned, that in the course of two sanguinary wars, he
had been wounded, maimed, mutilated, taken, and enslaved, without ever having attained a higher
rank than that of lieutenant -- My uncle's eyes gleamed, and his nether lip quivered, while
he exclaimed, 'I vow to God, sir, your case is a reproach to the service -- The injustice you
have met with is so flagrant' -- 'I must crave your pardon, sir (cried the other, interrupting
him), I complain of no injustice -- I purchased an ensigncy thirty years ago; and, in the course
of service rose to a lieutenant, according to my seniority' -- 'But in such a length of time
(resumed the 'squire), you must have seen a great many young officers put over your head' --
'Nevertheless (said he), I have no cause to murmur -- They bought their preferment with their
money -- I had no money to carry to market that was my misfortune; but no body was to blame'
-- 'What! no friend to advance a sum of money?' (said Mr Bramble) 'Perhaps, I might have borrowed
money for the purchase of a company (answered the other); but that loan must have been refunded;
and I did not chuse to incumber myself with a debt of a thousand pounds, to be payed from an
income of ten shillings a-day.' 'So you have spent the best part of your life (cried Mr Bramble),
your youth, your blood, and your constitution, amidst the dangers, the difficulties, the horrors
and hardships of a war, for the consideration of three or four shillings a-day a consideration
--' 'Sir (replied the Scot, with great warmth), you are the man that does me injustice, if
you say or think I have been actuated by any such paltry consideration -- I am a gentleman;
and entered the service as other gentlemen do, with such hopes and sentiments as honourable
ambition inspires -- If I have not been lucky in the lottery of life, so neither do I think
myself unfortunate -- I owe to no man a farthing; I can always command a clean shirt, a mutton-chop,
and a truss of straw; and when I die, I shall leave effects sufficient to defray the expence
of my burial.'

My uncle assured him, he had no intention to give him the least offence, by the observations
he had made; but, on the contrary, spoke from a sentiment of friendly regard to his interest
-- The lieutenant thanked him with a stiffness of civility, which nettled our old gentleman,
who perceived that his moderation was all affected; for, whatsoever his tongue might declare,
his whole appearance denoted dissatisfaction -- In short, without pretending to judge of his
military merit, I think I may affirm, that this Caledonian is a self-conceited pedant, aukward,
rude, and disputacious -- He has had the benefit of a school-education, seems to have read
a good number of books, his memory is tenacious, and he pretends to speak several different
languages; but he is so addicted to wrangling, that he will cavil at the clearest truths, and,
in the pride of argumentation, attempt to reconcile contradictions -- Whether his address and
qualifications are really of that stamp which is agreeable to the taste of our aunt, Mrs Tabitha,
or that indefatigable maiden is determined to shoot at every sort of game, certain it is she
has begun to practice upon the heart of the lieutenant, who favoured us with his company to supper.

I have many other things to say of this man of war, which I shall communicate in a post or
two; mean while, it is but reasonable that you should be indulged with some respite from those
weary lucubrations of

Yours, J. MELFORD NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE, July 10. It was our fortune to feed upon him the best
part of three days; and I do not doubt that he will start again in our way before we shall
have finished our northern excursion. The day after our meeting with him at Durham proved so
tempestuous that we did not choose to proceed on our journey; and my uncle persuaded him to
stay till the weather should clear up, giving him, at the same time, a general invitation to
our mess. The man has certainly gathered a whole budget of shrewd observations, but he brings
them forth in such an ungracious manner as would be extremely disgusting, if it was not marked
by that characteristic oddity which never fails to attract the attention -- He and Mr Bramble
discoursed, and even disputed, on different subjects in war, policy, the belles lettres, law,
and metaphysics; and sometimes they were warmed into such altercation as seemed to threaten
an abrupt dissolution of their society; but Mr Bramble set a guard over his own irascibility,
the more vigilantly as the officer was his guest; and when, in spite of all his efforts, he
began to wax warm, the other prudently cooled in the same proportion.

Mrs Tabitha chancing to accost her brother by the familiar diminutive of Matt, 'Pray, sir (said
the lieutenant), 'is your name Matthias?' You must know it is one of our uncle's foibles to
be ashamed of his name Matthew, because it is puritanical; and this question chagrined him
so much, that he answered, 'No, by G-d!' in a very abrupt tone of displeasure. -- The Scot
took umbrage at the manner of his reply, and bristling up, 'If I had known (said he) that you
did not care to tell your name, I should not have asked the question -- The leddy called you
Matt, and I naturally thought it was Matthias: -- perhaps, it may be Methuselah, or Metrodorus,
or Metellus, or Mathurinus, or Malthinnus, or Matamorus, or --' 'No (cried my uncle laughing),
it is neither of those, captain: my name is Matthew Bramble, at, your service. -- The truth
is, have a foolish pique at the name of Matthew, because it favours of those canting hypocrites,
who, in Cromwell's time, christened all their children by names taken from the scripture.'
'A foolish pique indeed. (cried Mrs Tabby), and even sinful, to fall out with your name because
it is taken from holy writ. -- I would have you to know, you was called after great-uncle Matthew
ap Madoc ap Meredith, esquire, of Llanwysthin, in Montgomeryshire, justice of the quorum, and
crusty ruttleorum, a gentleman of great worth and property, descended in a strait line, by
the female side, from Llewellyn, prince of Wales.'

This genealogical anecdote seemed to make some impression upon the North-Briton, who bowed
very low to the descendant of Llewellyn, and observed that he himself had the honour of a scriptural
nomination. The lady expressing a desire of knowing his address, he said, he designed himself
Lieutenant Obadiah Lismahago; and in order to assist her memory, he presented her with a slip
of paper inscribed with these three words, which she repeated with great emphasis, declaring,
it was one of the most noble and sonorous names she had ever heard. He observed that Obadiah
was an adventitious appellation, derived from his great- grandfather, who had been one of the
original covenanters; but Lismahago was the family surname, taken from a place in Scotland
so called. He likewise dropped some hints about the antiquity of his pedigree, adding, with
a smile of self-denial, Sed genus et proavos, et quoe non fecimus ipsi, vix ea nostra voco,
which quotation he explained in deference to the ladies; and Mrs Tabitha did not fail to compliment
him on his modesty in waving the merit of his ancestry, adding, that it was the less necessary
to him, as he had such a considerable fund of his own. She now began to glew herself to his
favour with the grossest adulation. -- She expatiated upon the antiquity and virtues of the
Scottish nation, upon their valour, probity, learning, and politeness. She even descended to
encomiums on his own personal address, his gallantry, good sense, and erudition. -- She appealed
to her brother, whether the captain was not the very image of our cousin governor Griffith.
She discovered a surprising eagerness to know the particulars of his life, and asked a thousand
questions concerning his atchievements in war; all which Mr Lismahago answered with a sort
of jesuitical reserve, affecting a reluctance to satisfy her curiosity on a subject that concerned
his own exploits.

By dint of her interrogations, however, we learned, that he and ensign Murphy had made their
escape from the French hospital at Montreal, and taken to the woods, in hope of reaching some
English settlement; but mistaking their route, they fell in with a party of Miamis, who carried
them away in captivity. The intention of these Indians was to give one of them as an adopted
son to a venerable sachem, who had lost his own in the course of the war, and to sacrifice
the other according to the custom of the country. Murphy, as being the younger and handsomer
of the two, was designed to fill the place of the deceased, not only as the son of the sachem,
but as the spouse of a beautiful squaw, to whom his predecessor had been betrothed; but in
passing through the different whigwhams or villages of the Miamis, poor Murphy was so mangled
by the women and children, who have the privilege of torturing all prisoners in their passage,
that, by the time they arrived at the place of the sachem's residence, he was rendered altogether
unfit for the purposes of marriage: it was determined therefore, in the assembly of the warriors,
that ensign Murphy should be brought to the stake, and that the lady should be given to lieutenant
Lismahago, who had likewise received his share of torments, though they had not produced emasculation.
-- A joint of one finger had been cut, or rather sawed off with a rusty knife; one of his great
toes was crushed into a mash betwixt two stones; some of his teeth were drawn, or dug out with
a crooked nail; splintered reeds had been thrust up his nostrils and other tender parts; and
the calves of his legs had been blown up with mines of gunpowder dug in the flesh with the
sharp point of the tomahawk.

The Indians themselves allowed that Murphy died with great heroism, singing, as his death song,
the Drimmendoo, in concert with Mr Lismahago, who was present at the solemnity. After the warriors
and the matrons had made a hearty meal upon the muscular flesh which they pared from the victim,
and had applied a great variety of tortures, which he bore without flinching, an old lady,
with a sharp knife, scooped out one of his eyes, and put a burning coal in the socket. The
pain of this operation was so exquisite that he could not help bellowing, upon which the audience
raised a shout of exultation, and one of the warriors stealing behind him, gave him the coup
de grace with a hatchet.

Lismahago's bride, the squaw Squinkinacoosta, distinguished herself on this occasion. -- She
shewed a great superiority of genius in the tortures which she contrived and executed with
her own hands. -- She vied with the stoutest warrior in eating the flesh of the sacrifice;
and after all the other females were fuddled with dram-drinking, she was not so intoxicated
but that she was able to play the game of the platter with the conjuring sachem, and afterwards
go through the ceremony of her own wedding, which was consummated that same evening. The captain
had lived very happily with this accomplished squaw for two years, during which she bore him
a son, who is now the representative of his mother's tribe; but, at length, to his unspeakable
grief, she had died of a fever, occasioned by eating too much raw bear, which they had killed
in a hunting excursion.

By this time, Mr Lismahago was elected sachem, acknowledged first warrior of the Badger tribe,
and dignified with the name or epithet of Occacanastaogarora, which signifies nimble as a weasel;
but all these advantages and honours he was obliged to resign, in consequence of being exchanged
for the orator of the community, who had been taken prisoner by the Indians that were in alliance
with the English. At the peace, he had sold out upon half pay, and was returned to Britain,
with a view to pass the rest of his life in his own country, where he hoped to find some retreat
where his slender finances would afford him a decent subsistence. Such are the outlines of
Mr Lismahago's history, to which Tabitha did seriously incline her ear; -- indeed, she seemed
to be taken with the same charms that captivated the heart of Desdemona, who loved the Moor
for the dangers he had past.

The description of poor Murphy's sufferings, which threw my sister Liddy into a swoon, extracted
some sighs from the breast of Mrs Tabby: when she understood he had been rendered unfit for
marriage, she began to spit, and ejaculated, 'Jesus, what cruel barbarians!' and she made wry
faces at the lady's nuptial repast; but she was eagerly curious to know the particulars of
her marriage-dress; whether she wore high-breasted stays or bodice, a robe of silk or velvet,
and laces of Mechlin or minionette -- she supposed, as they were connected with the French,
she used rouge, and had her hair dressed in the Parisian fashion. The captain would have declined
giving a catagorical explanation of all these particulars, observing, in general, that the
Indians were too tenacious of their own customs to adopt the modes of any nation whatsoever;
he said, moreover, that neither the simplicity of their manners nor the commerce of their country,
would admit of those articles of luxury which are deemed magnificence in Europe; and that they
were too virtuous and sensible to encourage the introduction of any fashion which might help
to render them corrupt and effeminate.

These observations served only to inflame her desire of knowing the particulars about which
she had enquired; and, with all his evasion, he could not help discovering the following circumstances
-- that his princess had neither shoes, stockings, shift, nor any kind of linen -- that her
bridal dress consisted of a petticoat of red bays, and a fringed blanket, fastened about her
shoulders with a copper skewer; but of ornaments she had great plenty. -- Her hair was curiously
plaited, and interwoven with bobbins of human bone -- one eye-lid was painted green, and the
other yellow; the cheeks were blue, the lips white, the teeth red, and there was a black list
drawn down the middle of the forehead as far as the tip of the nose -- a couple of gaudy parrot's
feathers were stuck through the division of the nostrils -- there was a blue stone set in the
chin, her ear-rings consisted of two pieces of hickery, of the size and shape of drum-sticks
-- her arms and legs were adorned with bracelets of wampum -- her breast glittered with numerous
strings of glass beads -- she wore a curious pouch, or pocket of woven grass, elegantly painted
with various colours -- about her neck was hung the fresh scalp of a Mohawk warrior, whom her
deceased lover had lately slain in battle -- and, finally, she was anointed from head to foot
with bear's grease, which sent forth a most agreeable odour.

One would imagine that these paraphernalia would not have been much admired by a modern fine
lady; but Mrs Tabitha was resolved to approve of all the captains connexions. -- She wished,
indeed, the squaw had been better provided with linen; but she owned there was much taste and
fancy in her ornaments; she made no doubt, therefore, that madam Squinkinacoosta was a young
lady of good sense and rare accomplishments, and a good christian at bottom. Then she asked
whether his consort had been high church or low-church, presbyterian or anabaptist, or had
been favoured with any glimmering of the new light of the gospel? When he confessed that she
and her whole nation were utter strangers to the christian faith, she gazed at him with signs
of astonishment, and Humphry Clinker, who chanced to be in the room, uttered a hollow groan.

After some pause, 'In the name of God, captain Lismahago (cried she), what religion do they
profess?' 'As to religion, madam (answered the lieutenant), it is among those Indians a matter
of great simplicity -- they never heard of any Alliance between Church and State. -- They,
in general, worship two contending principles; one the Fountain of all Good, the other the
source of all evil. The common people there, as in other countries, run into the absurdities
of superstition; but sensible men pay adoration to a Supreme Being, who created and sustains
the universe.' 'O! what pity (exclaimed the pious Tabby), that some holy man has not been inspired
to go and convert these poor heathens!'

The lieutenant told her, that while he resided among them, two French missionaries arrived,
in order to convert them to the catholic religion; but when they talked of mysteries and revelations,
which they could neither explain nor authenticate, and called in the evidence of miracles which
they believed upon hearsay; when they taught that the Supreme Creator of Heaven and Earth had
allowed his only Son, his own equal in power and glory, to enter the bowels of a woman, to
be born as a human creature, to be insulted, flagellated, and even executed as a malefactor;
when they pretended to create God himself, to swallow, digest, revive, and multiply him ad
infinitum, by the help of a little flour and water, the Indians were shocked at the impiety
of their presumption. -- They were examined by the assembly of the sachems who desired them
to prove the divinity of their mission by some miracle. -- They answered, that it was not in
their power. -- 'If you were really sent by Heaven for our conversion (said one of the sachems),
you would certainly have some supernatural endowments, at least you would have the gift of
tongues, in order to explain your doctrine to the different nations among which you are employed;
but you are so ignorant of our language, that you cannot express yourselves even on the most
trifling subjects.' In a word, the assembly were convinced of their being cheats, and even
suspected them of being spies: they ordered them a bag of Indian corn apiece, and appointed
a guide to conduct them to the frontiers; but the missionaries having more zeal than discretion,
refused to quit the vineyard. -- They persisted in saying mass, in preaching, baptizing, and
squabbling with the conjurers, or priests of the country, till they had thrown the whole community
into confusion. -- Then the assembly proceeded to try them as impious impostors, who represented
the Almighty as a trifling, weak, capricious being, and pretended to make, unmake, and reproduce
him at pleasure; they were, therefore, convicted of blasphemy and sedition, and condemned to
the stale, where they died singing Salve regina, in a rapture of joy, for the crown of martyrdom
which they had thus obtained.

In the course of this conversation, lieutenant Lismahago dropt some hints by which it appeared
he himself was a free-thinker. Our aunt seemed to be startled at certain sarcasms he threw
out against the creed of saint Athanasius -- He dwelt much upon the words, reason, philosophy,
and contradiction in terms -- he bid defiance to the eternity of hell-fire; and even threw
such squibs at the immortality of the soul, as singed a little the whiskers of Mrs Tabitha's
faith; for, by this time she began to look upon Lismahago as a prodigy of learning and sagacity.
-- In short, he could be no longer insensible to the advances she made towards his affection;
and although there was something repulsive in his nature, he overcame it so far as to make
some return to her civilities. -- Perhaps, he thought it would be no bad scheme, in a superannuated
lieutenant on half-pay, to effect a conjunction with an old maid, who, in all probability,
had fortune enough to keep him easy and comfortable in the fag-end of his days -- An ogling
correspondence forthwith commenced between this amiable pair of originals -- He began to sweeten
the natural acidity of his discourse with the treacle of compliment and commendation -- He
from time to time offered her snuff, of which he himself took great quantities, and even made
her a present of a purse of silk grass, woven by the hands of the amiable Squinkinacoosta,
who had used it as a shot-pouch in her hunting expeditions.

From Doncaster northwards, all the windows of all the inns are scrawled with doggeral rhimes,
in abuse of the Scotch nation; and what surprised me very much, I did not perceive one line
written in the way of recrimination -- Curious to hear what Lismahago would say on this subject,
I pointed out to him a very scurrilous epigram against his countrymen, which was engraved on
one of the windows of the parlour where we sat. -- He read it with the most starched composure;
and when I asked his opinion of the poetry, 'It is vara terse and vara poignant (said he);
but with the help of a wat dish-clout, it might be rendered more clear and parspicuous. --
I marvel much that some modern wit has not published a collection of these essays under the
title of the Glaziers Triumph over Sawney the Scot -- I'm persuaded it would be a vara agreeable
offering to the patriots of London and Westminster.' When I expressed some surprize that the
natives of Scotland, who travel this way, had not broke all the windows upon the road, 'With
submission (replied the lieutenant), that were but shallow policy -- it would only serve to
make the satire more cutting and severe; and I think it is much better to let it stand in the
window, than have it presented in the reckoning.'

My uncle's jaws began to quiver with indignation. -- He said, the scribblers of such infamous
stuff deserved to be scourged at the cart's tail for disgracing their country with such monuments
of malice and stupidity. -- 'These vermin (said he) do not consider, that they are affording
their fellow subjects, whom they abuse, continual matter of self-gratulation, as well as the
means of executing the most manly vengeance that can be taken for such low, illiberal attacks.
For my part, I admire the philosophic forbearance of the Scots, as much as I despise the insolence
of those wretched libellers, which is akin to the arrogance of the village cock, who never
crows but upon his own dunghill.' The captain, with an affectation of candour, observed, that
men of illiberal minds were produced in every soil; that in supposing those were the sentiments
of the English in general, he should pay too great a compliment to is own country, which was
not of consequence enough to attract the envy of such a flourishing and powerful people.

Mrs Tabby broke forth again in praise of his moderation, and declared that Scotland was the
soil which produced every virtue under heaven. When Lismahago took his leave for the night,
she asked her brother if the captain was not the prettiest gentleman he had ever seen; and
whether there was not something wonderfully engaging in his aspect? -- Mr Bramble having eyed
her sometime in silence, 'Sister (said he), the lieutenant is, for aught I know, an honest
man and a good officer -- he has a considerable share of understanding, and a title to more
encouragement than he seems to have met with in life; but I cannot, with a safe conscience,
affirm, that he is the prettiest gentleman I ever saw; neither can I descern any engaging charm
in his countenance, which, I vow to God, is, on the contrary, very hard-favoured and forbidding.'

I have endeavoured to ingratiate myself with this North-Briton, who is really a curiosity;
but he has been very shy of my conversation ever since I laughed at his asserting that the
English tongue was spoke with more propriety at Edinburgh than at London. Looking at me with
a double squeeze of souring in his aspect, 'If the old definition be true (said he), that risibility
is the distinguishing characteristic of a rational creature, the English are the most distinguished
for rationality of any people I ever knew.' I owned, that the English were easily struck with
any thing that appeared ludicrous, and apt to laugh accordingly; but it did not follow, that,
because they were more given to laughter, they had more rationality than their neighbours:
I said, such an inference would be an injury to the Scots, who were by no means defective in
rationality, though generally supposed little subject to the impressions of humour.

The captain answered, that this supposition must have been deduced either from their conversation
or their compositions, of which the English could not possibly judge with precision, as they
did not understand the dialect used by the Scots in common discourse, as well as in their works
of humour. When I desired to know what those works of humour were, he mentioned a considerable
number of pieces, which he insisted were equal in point of humour to any thing extant in any
language dead or living -- He, in particular, recommended a collection of detached poems, in
two small volumes, intituled, The Ever-Green, and the works of Allan Ramsay, which I intend
to provide myself with at Edinburgh. -- He observed, that a North-Briton is seen to a disadvantage
in an English company, because he speaks in a dialect that they can't relish, and in a phraseology
which they don't understand. -- He therefore finds himself under a restraint, which is a great
enemy to wit and humour. -- These are faculties which never appear in full lustre, but when
the mind is perfectly at ease, and, as an excellent writer says, enjoys her elbow-room.

He proceeded to explain his assertion that the English language was spoken with greater propriety
at Edinburgh than in London. He said, what we generally called the Scottish dialect was, in
fact, true, genuine old English, with a mixture of some French terms and idioms, adopted in
a long intercourse betwixt the French and Scotch nations; that the modern English, from affectation
and false refinement, had weakened, and even corrupted their language, by throwing out the
guttural sounds, altering the pronunciation and the quantity, and disusing many words and terms
of great significance. In consequence of these innovations, the works of our best poets, such
as Chaucer, Spenser, and even Shakespeare, were become, in many parts, unintelligible to the
natives of South Britain, whereas the Scots, who retain the antient language, understand them
without the help of a glossary. 'For instance (said he), how have your commentators been puzzled
by the following expression in the Tempest -- He's gentle and not fearful: as if it was a paralogism
to say, that being gentle, he must of course be courageous: but the truth is, one of the original
meanings, if not the sole meaning, of that word was, noble, high-minded; and to this day, a
Scotch woman, in the situation of the young lady in the Tempest, would express herself nearly
in the same terms -- Don't provoke him; for being gentle, that is, high-spirited, he won't
tamely bear an insult. Spenser, in the very first stanza of his Fairy Queen, says,

A gentle knight was pricking on the plain;

which knight, far from being tame and fearful, was so stout that

Nothing did he dread, but ever was ydrad.

To prove that we had impaired the energy of our language by false refinement, he mentioned
the following words, which, though widely different in signification, are pronounced exactly
in the same manner wright, write, right, rite; but among the Scots, these words are as different
in pronunciation, as they are in meaning and orthography; and this is the case with many others
which he mentioned by way of illustration. -- He, moreover, took notice, that we had (for what
reason he could never learn) altered the sound of our vowels from that which is retained by
all the nations in Europe; an alteration which rendered the language extremely difficult to
foreigners, and made it almost impracticable to lay down general rules for orthography and
pronunciation. Besides, the vowels were no longer simple sounds in the mouth of an Englishman,
who pronounced both i and u as dipthongs. Finally, he affirmed, that we mumbled our speech
with our lips and teeth, and ran the words together without pause or distinction, in such a
manner, that a foreigner, though he understood English tolerably well, was often obliged to
have recourse to a Scotchman to explain what a native of England had said in his own language.

The truth of this remark was confirmed by Mr Bramble from his own experience; but he accounted
for it on another principle. He said, the same observation would hold in all languages; that
a Swiss talking French was more easily understood than a Parisian, by a foreigner who had not
made himself master of the language; because every language had its peculiar recitative, and
it would always require more pains, attention, and practice, to acquire both the words and
the music, than to learn the words only; and yet no body would deny, that the one was imperfect
without the other: he therefore apprehended, that the Scotchman and the Swiss were better understood
by learners, because they spoke the words only, without the music, which they could not rehearse.
One would imagine this check might have damped the North Briton; but it served only to agitate
his humour for disputation. -- He said, if every nation had its own recitative or music, the
Scots had theirs, and the Scotchman who had not yet acquired the cadence of the English, would
naturally use his own in speaking their language; therefore, if he was better understood than
the native, his recitative must be more intelligible than that of the English; of consequence,
the dialect of the Scots had an advantage over that of their fellow-subjects, and this was
another strong presumption that the modern English had corrupted their language in the article
of pronunciation.

The lieutenant was, by this time, become so polemical, that every time he opened his mouth
out flew a paradox, which he maintained with all the enthusiasm of altercation; but all his
paradoxes favoured strong of a partiality for his own country. He undertook to prove that poverty
was a blessing to a nation; that oatmeal was preferable to wheat-flour; and that the worship
of Cloacina, in temples which admitted both sexes, and every rank of votaries promiscuously,
was a filthy species of idolatry that outraged every idea of delicacy and decorum. I did not
so much wonder at his broaching these doctrines, as at the arguments, equally whimsical and
ingenious, which he adduced in support of them.

In fine, lieutenant Lismahago is a curiosity which I have not yet sufficiently perused; and
therefore I shall be sorry when we lose his company, though, God knows, there is nothing very
amiable in his manner or disposition. -- As he goes directly to the south-west division of
Scotland, and we proceed in the road to Berwick, we shall part tomorrow at a place called Feltonbridge;
and, I dare say, this separation will be very grievous to our aunt Mrs Tabitha, unless she
has received some flattering assurance of his meeting her again. If I fail in my purpose of
entertaining you with these unimportant occurrences, they will at least serve as exercises
of patience, for which you are indebted to

Yours always, J. MELFORD MORPETH, July 13.

To Dr LEWIS.

DEAR DOCTOR,

I have now reached the northern extremity of England, and see, close to my chamber-window,
the Tweed gliding through the arches of that bridge which connects this suburb to the town
of Berwick. -- Yorkshire you have seen, and therefore I shall say nothing of that opulent province.
The city of Durham appears like a confused heap of stones and brick, accumulated so as to cover
a mountain, round which a river winds its brawling course. The Streets are generally narrow,
dark, and unpleasant, and many of them almost impassible in consequence of their declivity.
The cathedral is a huge gloomy pile; but the clergy are well lodged. -- The bishop lives in
a princely manner -- the golden prebends keep plentiful tables -- and, I am told, there is
some good sociable company in the place; but the country, when viewed from the top of Gateshead-Fell,
which extends to Newcastle, exhibits the highest scene of cultivation that ever I beheld. As
for Newcastle, it lies mostly in a bottom, on the banks of the Tyne, and makes an appearance
still more disagreeable than that of Durham; but it is rendered populous and rich by industry
and commerce; and the country lying on both sides the river, above the town, yields a delightful
prospect of agriculture and plantation. Morpeth and Alnwick are neat, pretty towns, and this
last is famous for the castle which has belonged so many ages to the noble house of Piercy,
earls of Northumberland. -- It is, doubtless, a large edifice, containing a great number of
apartments, and stands in a commanding  situation; but the strength of it seems to have consisted
not so much in its site, or the manner in which it is fortified, as in the valour of its defendants.

Our adventures since we left Scarborough, are scarce worth reciting; and yet I must make you
acquainted with my sister Tabby's progress in husband-hunting, after her disappointments at
Bath and London. She had actually begun to practise upon a certain adventurer, who was in fact
a highwayman by profession; but he had been used to snares much more dangerous than any she
could lay, and escaped accordingly. Then she opened her batteries upon an old weather-beaten
Scotch lieutenant, called Lismahago, who joined us at Durham, and is, I think, one of the most
singular personages I ever encountered -- His manner is as harsh as his countenance; but his
peculiar turn of thinking, and his pack of knowledge made up of the remnants of rarities, rendered
his conversation desirable, in spite of his pedantry and ungracious address. I have often met
with a crab-apple in a hedge, which I have been tempted to eat for its flavour, even while
I was disgusted by its austerity. The spirit of contradiction is naturally so strong in Lismahago,
that I believe in my conscience he has rummaged, and read, and studied with indefatigable attention,
in order to qualify himself to refute established maxims, and thus raise trophies for the gratification
of polemical pride. -- Such is the asperity of his self-conceit, that he will not even acquiesce
in a transient compliment made to his own individual in particular, or to his country in general.

