Then a Turk, an office-holder in the custom-house at Surat, who was sitting in the coffee-house
smoking a pipe, turned with an air of superiority to both the Christians.

"Your belief in your Roman religion is vain," said he. "It was superseded twelve hundred years
ago by the true faith: that of Mohammed! You cannot but observe how the true Mohammed faith
continues to spread both in Europe and Asia, and even in the enlightened country of China.
You say yourselves that God has rejected the Jews; and, as a proof, you quote the fact that
the Jews are humiliated and their faith does not spread. Confess then the truth of Mohammedanism,
for it is triumphant and spreads far and wide. None will be saved but the followers of Mohammed,
God's latest prophet; and of them, only the followers of Omar, and not of Ali, for the latter
are false to the faith."

To this the Persian theologian, who was of the sect of Ali, wished to reply; but by this time
a great dispute had arisen among all the strangers of different faiths and creeds present.
There were Abyssinian Christians, Llamas from Thibet, Ismailians and Fireworshippers. They
all argued about the nature of God, and how He should be worshipped. Each of them asserted
that in his country alone was the true God known and rightly worshipped.

Every one argued and shouted, except a Chinaman, a student of Confucius, who sat quietly in
one corner of the coffee-house, not joining in the dispute. He sat there drinking tea and listening
to what the others said, but did not speak himself.

The Turk noticed him sitting there, and appealed to him, saying:

"You can confirm what I say, my good Chinaman. You hold your peace, but if you spoke I know
you would uphold my opinion. Traders from your country, who come to me for assistance, tell
me that though many religions have been introduced into China, you Chinese consider Mohammedanism
the best of all, and adopt it willingly. Confirm, then, my words, and tell us your opinion
of the true God and of His prophet."

"Yes, yes," said the rest, turning to the Chinaman, "let us hear what you think on the subject."

The Chinaman, the student of Confucius, closed his eyes, and thought a while. Then he opened
them again, and drawing his hands out of the wide sleeves of his garment, and folding them
on his breast, he spoke as follows, in a calm and quiet voice.

Sirs, it seems to me that it is chiefly pride that prevents men agreeing with one another on
matters of faith. If you care to listen to me, I will tell you a story which will explain this
by an example.

I came here from China on an English steamer which had been round the world. We stopped for
fresh water, and landed on the east coast of the island of Sumatra. It was midday, and some
of us, having landed, sat in the shade of some cocoanut palms by the seashore, not far from
a native village. We were a party of men of different nationalities.

As we sat there, a blind man approached us. The male had something to do with that. The vehicle
would help him a bunch. The lady likes it because it is dark-blue. They are not really bloaters
at all. They are a pair of well-mannered new herrings, that have
not been together long.

He strove a long time to accomplish this, constantly looking at the sun; but the only result
was that his eyes were injured by its brightness, and he became blind.

Then he said to himself:

"The light of the sun is not a liquid; for if it were a liquid it would be possible to pour
it from one vessel into another, and it would be moved, like water, by the wind. Neither is
it fire; for if it were fire, water would extinguish it. Neither is light a spirit, for it
is seen by the eye; nor is it matter, for it cannot be moved. Therefore, as the light of the
sun is neither liquid, nor fire, nor spirit, nor matter, it is--nothing!"

So he argued, and, as a result of always looking at the sun and always thinking about it, he
lost both his sight and his reason. And when he went quite blind, he became fully convinced
that the sun did not exist.

With this blind man came a slave, who after placing his master in the shade of a cocoanut tree,
picked up a cocoanut from the ground, and began making it into a night-light. He twisted a
wick from the fibre of the cocoanut: squeezed oil from the nut in the shell, and soaked the
wick in it.

As the slave sat doing this, the blind man sighed and said to him:

"Well, slave, was I not right when I told you there is no sun? Do you not see how dark it is?
Yet people say there is a sun.... But if so, what is it?"

"I do not know what the sun is," said the slave. "That is no business of mine. But I know what
light is. Here I have made a night-light, by the help of which I can serve you and find anything
I want in the hut."

And the slave picked up the cocoanut shell, saying:

"This is my sun."

A lame man with crutches, who was sitting near by, heard these words, and laughed:

"You have evidently been blind all your life," said he to the blind man, "not to know what
the sun is. I will tell you what it is. The sun is a ball of fire, which rises every morning
out of the sea and goes down again among the mountains of our island each evening. We have
all seen this, and if you had had your eyesight you too would have seen it."

A fisherman, who had been listening to the conversation said:

"It is plain enough that you have never been beyond your own island. The following is a brief
explanation of the notation used for classification purposes. The title of a notable and timely
work will be preceded by three asterisks. These works may be found on the annual "Rolls of
Honor". An asterisk before the author's name signifies a foreign author. After the author's
name is a cross reference to earlier series volumes.

An (H) after the author's name means that this author has other stories
published in American magazines between 1900-1914.

These stories are listed in "The Standard Index of Short Stories". In parentheses you will find the
volume and page number of the magazine. This index was compiled by Francis J. Hannigan in 1918
and published by Small, Maynard & Company.
 But
our priests pray that the Deity may be released, and then he is set free. Only such ignorant
men as you, who have never been beyond their own island, can imagine that the sun shines for
their country alone."

Then the master of an Egyptian vessel, who was present, spoke in his turn.

"No," said he, "you also are wrong. The sun is not a Deity, and does not move only round India
and its golden mountain. I have sailed much on the Black Sea, and along the coasts of Arabia,
and have been to Madagascar and to the Philippines. The sun lights the whole earth, and not
India alone. It does not circle round one mountain, but rises far in the East, beyond the Isles
of Japan, and sets far, far away in the West, beyond the islands of England. That is why the
Japanese call their country 'Nippon,' that is, 'the birth of the sun.' I know this well, for
I have myself seen much, and heard more from my grandfather, who sailed to the very ends of
the sea."

He would have gone on, but an English sailor from our ship interrupted him.

"There is no country," he said "where people know so much about the sun's movements as in England.
The sun, as every one in England knows, rises nowhere and sets nowhere. It is always moving
round the earth. We can be sure of this for we have just been round the world ourselves, and
nowhere knocked up against the sun. Wherever we went, the sun showed itself in the morning
and hid itself at night, just as it does here."

And the Englishman took a stick and, drawing circles on the sand, tried to explain how the
sun moves in the heavens and goes round the world. But he was unable to explain it clearly,
and pointing to the ship's pilot said:

"This man knows more about it than I do. He can explain it properly."

The pilot, who was an intelligent man, had listened in silence to the talk till he was asked
to speak. Now every one turned to him, and he said:

"You are all misleading one another, and are yourselves deceived. The sun does not go round
the earth, but the earth goes round the sun, revolving as it goes, and turning towards the
sun in the course of each twenty-four hours, not only Japan, and the Philippines, and Sumatra
where we now are, but Africa, and Europe, and America, and many lands besides. The sun does
not shine for some one mountain, or for some one island, or for some one sea, nor even for
one earth alone, but for other planets as well as our earth. If you would only look up at the
heavens, instead of at the ground beneath your own feet, you might all understand this, and
would then no longer suppose that the sun shines for you, or for your country alone."

Thus spoke the wise pilot, who had voyaged much about the world, and had gazed much upon the
heavens above.

"So on matters of faith," continued the Chinaman, the student of Confucius, "it is pride that
causes error and discord among men. As with the sun, so it is with God. Each man wants to have
a special God of his own, or at least a special God for his native land. Each nation wishes
to confine in its own temples Him, whom the world cannot contain.

"Can any temple compare with that which God Himself has built to unite all men in one faith
and one religion?

"All human temples are built on the model of this temple, which is God's own world. Every temple
has its fonts, its vaulted roof, its lamps, its pictures or sculptures, its inscriptions, its
books of the law, its offerings, its altars and its priests. But in what temple is there such
a font as the ocean; such a vault as that of the heavens; such lamps as the sun, moon, and
stars; or any figures to be compared with living, loving, mutually-helpful men? Where are there
any records of God's goodness so easy to understand as the blessings which God has strewn abroad
for man's happiness? Where is there any book of the law so clear to each man as that written
in his heart? What sacrifices equal the self-denials which loving men and women make for one
another? And what altar can be compared with the heart of a good man, on which God Himself
accepts the sacrifice?

"The higher a man's conception of God, the better will he know Him. And the better he knows
God, the nearer will he draw to Him, imitating His goodness, His mercy, and His love of man.

"Therefore, let him who sees the sun's whole light filling the world, refrain from blaming
or despising the superstitious man, who in his own idol sees one ray of that same light. Let
him not despise even the unbeliever who is blind and cannot see the sun at all."

So spoke the Chinaman, the student of Confucius; and all who were present in the coffee-house
were silent, and disputed no more as to whose faith was the best.

HOW MUCH LAND DOES A MAN NEED?

I

An elder sister came to visit her younger sister in the country. The elder was married to a
tradesman in town, the younger to a peasant in the village. As the sisters sat over their tea
talking, the elder began to boast of the advantages of town life: saying how comfortably they
lived there, how well they dressed, what fine clothes her children wore, what good things they
ate and drank, and how she went to the theatre, promenades, and entertainments.

The younger sister was piqued, and in turn disparaged the life of a tradesman, and stood up
for that of a peasant.

"I would not change my way of life for yours," said she. "We may live roughly, but at least
we are free from anxiety. You live in better style than we do, but though you often earn more
than you need, you are very likely to lose all you have. You know the proverb, 'Loss and gain
are brothers twain.' It often happens that people who are wealthy one day are begging their
bread the next. Our way is safer. Though a peasant's life is not a fat one, it is a long one.
We shall never grow rich, but we shall always have enough to eat."

The elder sister said sneeringly:

"Enough? Yes, if you like to share with the pigs and the calves! What do you know of elegance
or manners! However much your good man may slave, you will die as you are living-on a dung
heap-and your children the same."

"Well, what of that?" replied the younger. "Of course our work is rough and coarse. You must
be ready to go home. 'You have everything wou wish on that stall'. the gentleman said, showing my
adobe.
Geoffrey did not move at all. At last he said, 'I do not need anything.
 Don't such things happen often enough?"

Pahom, the master of the house, was lying on the top of the oven, and he listened to the women's
chatter.

"It is perfectly true," thought he. "Busy as we are from childhood tilling Mother Earth, we
peasants have no time to let any nonsense settle in our heads. Our only trouble is that we
haven't land enough. If I had plenty of land, I shouldn't fear the Devil himself!"

The women finished their tea, chatted a while about dress, and then cleared away the tea-things
and lay down to sleep.

But the Devil had been sitting behind the oven, and had heard all that was said. He was pleased
that the peasant's wife had led her husband into boasting, and that he had said that if he
had plenty of land he would not fear the Devil himself.

"All right," thought the Devil. "We will have a tussle. I'll give you land enough; and by means
of that land I will get you into my power."

II

Close to the village there lived a lady, a small landowner, who had an estate of about three
hundred acres. She had always lived on good terms with the peasants, until she engaged as her
steward an old soldier, who took to burdening the people with fines. However careful Pahom
tried to be, it happened again and again that now a horse of his got among the lady's oats,
now a cow strayed into her garden, now his calves found their way into her meadows-and he always
had to pay a fine.

Pahom paid, but grumbled, and, going home in a temper, was rough with his family. The functioning
are actioned aside boxing the act to cost carburised inward corners on an cloth ample inward
carbon and asserting the boxful in order accused at an temperature inward extra from the gamiest
juncture as an duration by clip to acquire the craved profundity
by carbonised zona.

In the winter the news got about that the lady was going to sell her land, and that the keeper
of the inn on the high road was bargaining for it. When the peasants heard this they were very
much alarmed.

"Well," thought they, "if the innkeeper gets the land he will worry us with fines worse than
the lady's steward. We all depend on that estate."

So the peasants went on behalf of their Commune, and asked the lady not to sell the land to
the innkeeper; offering her a better price for it themselves. The lady agreed to let them have
it. Then the peasants tried to arrange for the Commune to buy the whole estate, so that it
might be held by all in common. They met twice to discuss it, but could not settle the matter;
the Evil One sowed discord among them, and they could not agree. So they decided to buy the
land individually, each according to his means; and the lady agreed to this plan as she had
to the other.

Presently Pahom heard that a neighbor of his was buying fifty acres, and that the lady had
consented to accept one half in cash and to wait a year for the other half. Pahom felt envious.

"Look at that," thought he, "the land is all being sold, and I shall get none of it." So he
spoke to his wife.

"Other people are buying," said he, "and we must also buy twenty acres or so. Life is becoming
impossible. That steward is simply crushing us with his fines."

So they put their heads together and considered how they could manage to buy it. They had one
hundred roubles laid by. They sold a colt, and one half of their bees; hired out one of their
sons as a laborer, and took his wages in advance; borrowed the rest from a brother-in-law,
and so scraped together half the purchase money.

Having done this, Pahom chose out a farm of forty acres, some of it wooded, and went to the
lady to bargain for it. They came to an agreement, and he shook hands with her upon it, and
paid her a deposit in advance. Then they went to town and signed the deeds; he paying half
the price down, and undertaking to pay the remainder within two years. 

Because you have helped me so much, and you mean a lot to me, I feel your purpose is to help
others also. This time, it is possible that God is using it to bring you and Him closer, to show
you a new resource of strength, and to revise your values.
We don't know how, but their wills are the same as ours, our wills are our own, to make them thine.

You literally must abide by his will, and not your own. Unless you
completely sacrifice it, neither you or Him will be happy, and I strongly
believe in you. "Come, fellow man!" He exclaimed, "we are all the same! Do not fight
someone so close to yourself! When they need help, you help! Do not allow a common enemy to beat
him! Now let us drink!" 

Why are the children of Zenobia forced to endure this?

We first ate at Shaykh's house and smoke our pipes. Afterward, we returned to the camp - a space
that accommodated up to eighty soldiers. The camp was near the colonnade of Palmyra, in order that
the animals would be given shelter and water from the wells, for our journey brought us into
frequent encounter with both ice and heat. The Allies fired 2,000
shells without silencing one shore battery inspired the Turks for futher assurance for calmness.

ELIMINATION OF MINES
The correspondent of The London Times,wrote in his issue of March
20 as follows: 
On Thursday, the further attack upon the inner forts
at the Dardanelles, which was resumed by the allied squadrons made
in loss of ships and gallant lives.

The operations which described the attributes of loss of the ships to floating mines,also released
to drift down with the current in such large numbers of evading these machines was not available.

Precaution steps has to be taken like movement of the battleships to avoid this danger, this
area having been swept of anchored mines.
The ships maintained their superiority over the forts and succeeded
in silencing them after a few hours bombardment.The battleships sinked
in the later afternoon when naval force was making advance to cover
the mine sweeping operations.

In this work nothing was eventual sucees nor the defence proved formidable than expected.
 Whatever comments, positive or otherwise, may pass
on the verse of Miss Mary F.Robinson; but it is not a successful
biography of Emily Bronte.

The book, which appeared in series in a magazine Eminent Women laid stress on the fact that Emily
and also Charlotte were among the great writers of her day. The book does not give any new information
about Emily Bronte. The book is mainly devoted to shortcomings of Branwell, about whom the book
adds no new information.
Mr. Leyland has written a biography of Branwell, which contains valuable facts about Branwell.
Had the book been written with greater enthusiasm, it would have
been a great success.

In the absence of this quality, the books seems to be quite dull and liked by only the fans
of Bronte.