THE DISCIPLINE OF WAR

Nine Addresses on the Lessons of the War in Connection with Lent

FROM ASH WEDNESDAY to EASTER SUNDAY

WITH AN APPENDIX CONTAINING

SUGGESTED SUBJECT FOR MEDITATION, AND SUITABLE PASSAGE OF SCRIPTURE, FOR EACH DAY IN LENT

BY THE REV.

J. HASLOCH POTTER, M.A.

Hon. Canon of Southwark and Vicar of St. Mark's, Surbiton, Surrey

  London
  SKEFFINGTON & SON
  34, Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.
  Publishers to His Majesty the King

  1915

AUTHOR'S PREFACE

The war has introduced into countless lives new conditions, and has strangely modified, or
emphasised, those already existing. These Addresses, prepared under much stress of other work,
are intended to supply, in very simple fashion, hints for conduct and points for thought along
the lines of our fresh or deepened responsibilities. An Appendix gives a suggested subject
and a passage of Scripture for each day during Lent. May God the Holy Ghost, without Whom man's
best labours are in vain, bless this little book to its purpose. Please say a prayer for the
writer, who, as much as any, needs grace that he may try to practise what he preaches.

  J. HASLOCH POTTER.

  Surbiton.
    The Conversion of St. Paul. 1915.

FOREWORD

  Kingston House,
    Clapham Common.

  January 19th, 1915.

My dear Canon,--

You have invited me to say a few words introductory to the little book you are putting forth,
and of which you have sent me the advance proofs.

From the great excellence of that which I have read, I am convinced that your Lenten meditations
on the Discipline of War, will be of pre-eminently spiritual value in a time when publications
on the subject are multiplied. That the war is to leave us on a higher plane of self-discipline,
and with higher ideals of citizen life and responsibility, every Christian must acknowledge.
Your little Lenten scheme is just that which is needed to give reality and action to what might
otherwise be left in the realm of theory. May the Holy Spirit make use of your work to the
benefit of us all and for the Glory of God.

  Your sincere friend,

  CECIL HOOK,
    Bishop.

CONTENTS

  I
                                        PAGE

  The Discipline of the Will              1

  II

  The Discipline of the Body              9

  III

  The Discipline of the Soul             18

  IV

  The Discipline of the Spirit           27

  V

  Discipline through Obedience           35

  VI

  The Discipline of Sorrow               44

  VII

  Discipline through bereavement         52

  VIII

  Discipline through Self-sacrifice      62

  IX

  Discipline through Victory             70

         *       *       *       *       *

  Appendix                               81

THE DISCIPLINE OF WAR

I

=The Discipline of the Will=

ASH WEDNESDAY

Isaiah lviii. 6

  "Is not this the fast that I have chosen?"

Discipline is the central idea of the observance of Lent. An opportunity, rich in its splendid
possibilities, comes before us this year. Much of the discipline of this Lent is settled for
us by those tragic circumstances in which we find ourselves placed.

God seems to be saying to us, in no uncertain tones, "Is not this the fast that I have chosen?"

Our amusements are already to a large extent curtailed, maybe by our own individual sorrows
or anxieties; maybe by the feeling of the incongruity of enjoying ourselves while anguish and
hardship reign supreme around us.

Our self-denials are already in operation, under the stress of straitened means, or the vital
necessity of helping others less favoured than ourselves.

Our devotions have already been increased in frequency and in earnestness, for the call upon
our prayers has come with an insistence and an imperiousness that brook no denial.

To this extent, and further in many directions, our Lent has been taken out of our own hands;
ordered and pre-arranged by that inscrutable, yet loving, Providence which has permitted the
War to come about.

Thus, at the very outset, we are brought into harmony with the central idea of discipline--not
my will, but God's will.

Broadly, discipline is defined as "Mental and moral training, under one's own guidance or under
that of another": the two necessarily overlap, and therefore we shall speak of God's discipline,
acting upon us from outside, and of our own co-operation with divine purposes, which is our
discipline of self from within.

In the forefront of the subject, and including every aspect of it upon which we shall touch,
stands that tremendous word--will.

Have you ever attempted to gauge the mystery, to sound the depth of meaning implied in the
simple sentence "I will"?

First of all what is the significance of "I"? You are the only one who can say it of yourself.
Any other must speak of you as "he" or "she"; but "I" is your own inalienable possession.

This is the mystery of personality. That accumulation of experience, that consciousness of
identity which you possess as absolutely, uniquely your own; which none other can share with
you in the remotest degree. "A thing we consider to be unconscious, an animal to be conscious,
a person to be self-conscious."

This leads on to a further mystery, alike concerned with so apparently simple a matter that
its real complexity escapes us.

"I will": I, the self-conscious person, have made up my mind what I am going to do, and, physical
obstacles excepted, I will do it.

The freedom of man's will has been the subject of endless dispute from every point of view,
theistic, atheistic, Christian and non-Christian.

Merely as a philosophic controversy it has but little bearing upon daily life. The staunchest
necessitarian, who argues theoretically that even when he says "I will" he is under the compulsion
of external force, yet acts practically in exactly the same fashion as the rest of mankind.

When the freedom of the will is considered in relation to religion, then it bears a totally
different aspect. If the will be not free, religion, as a personal matter, falls to the ground,
for its very essence is man's voluntary choice of God.

Here too those who deny the freedom of man's will doctrinally yet accept it as a working fact.
Calvin, whose theory of Predestination and Irresistible Grace seems to exclude man from any
co-operation in his own salvation, yet preached a Gospel not to be distinguished from that
of John Wesley!

For us Christians the freedom of the will is absolutely settled by Him Who says, "Whosoever
will let him come."

If you are sometimes troubled by certain passages in Scripture which seem to imply that God's
predestination overrides man's will, remember, that whenever we are considering any question
which concerns both God's nature and man's nature, difficulty must arise, from the very fact
that our finite mind can only comprehend, and that but imperfectly, man's side of the transaction.
Things which now seem incompatible, such as prayer and law; miracle and, what we are pleased
to call, nature; God's foreknowledge and man's free-will in the light of eternity will be seen
as only complementary parts of one divine whole.

Remember too that you must take the general bearing of Scripture; not isolated passages in
which, for the necessity of the argument, one side is strongly emphasised. (1 Tim. ii. 4).

The love by which the Father gave up His Son; the life and death of that Son; the ministry
of God the Holy Ghost; the whole dispensation of the Catholic Church, form one great tender
appeal to the free-will of man. Your free-will, my free-will, before which is placed the tremendous
responsibility of choosing or rejecting.

And now from the broad thought of will, at its highest point, occupied with eternal choices
and spiritual decisions, we turn to will as the governing power in our lives.

It is, to a certain extent, self in action, for before even the slightest movement of any part
of the body, there must have gone, automatically and unconsciously, an act of will.

Before every deliberate action there takes place a discussion, which ultimately decides the
attitude of the will, that is your final purpose. Put quite simply, the motives determine the
will, and are themselves decided by the principles at the back of them.

Let us make this plain by an illustration. It is pouring with rain, you are sitting cosily
over the fire with an interesting book. The thought comes into your mind, I ought to go and
see my sick friend. Then follows the deliberation: the flesh says, "To-morrow will do just
as well." The spirit says, "No, it won't; you may both be dead to-morrow." The flesh says,
"Perhaps I shall catch a cold"; the spirit says, "That fear wouldn't keep you from going to
a Picture Palace." The flesh says, "Perhaps he won't care to see me to-day"; the spirit replies,
"It's a dull, wet afternoon, and he's very likely to be alone."

Now notice that at the back of each set of motives is a vital principle. In the one case the
lower self, in the other the higher self, that is to say "I" and "God."

The purely natural, human side of even the greatest saint would prefer to sit over the fire;
but then our nature is not left unassisted, and even in a simple thing like this God the Holy
Ghost comes to our aid with His suggestions of the higher course, and illuminates the path
of duty. That is one of the most blessed features of the ministry of the Spirit; He enlightens,
He persuades, He never compels: if He did, your will would not be free.

This explains what the discipline of the will really means. It is just the laying of ourselves
open to the voice of the living God, speaking within us.

As we do this, day by day, the will itself becomes braced and strengthened, so that the struggle
against the lower nature grow less and less fierce, the power of choosing the higher course
more and more easy.

Here is our first practical thought for this Lent.

Watch yourself and your life, especially in those particulars in which you know that you have
been getting out of hand. The prayers omitted, curtailed, said carelessly, said or attempted
in bed, instead of on your knees: what a grievous failure, isn't it?

The carelessness about preparation before and thanksgiving after Communion, the irregularity
of your attendances; the habit of Self-Examination, or of Confession, dropped--why? The Bible
neglected.

Then the self-indulgences in the matter of sleep, food, drink, and purely wasted hours.

All these things are sapping the manhood and dignity of the will. Sometimes even more dangerously
and insidiously than open sins, because with regard to these conscience does speak; but when
we are merely drifting down the stream of time, the pleasant lapping of the ripples on the
side of the bark lulls conscience into fatal sleep.

Look at your life, ask yourself the question, boldly and honestly, what is the principle upon
which it is being lived, God or self? When the answer comes you will see clearly the first
steps to take in the disciplining of the will.

Glorious examples of what can be done abound around you. Think you there has been no struggle
on the part of those tens of thousands who have given up comforts, home, prospects, harmless
pleasures, in exchange for the ghastly miseries of the trenches, the appalling risks by land,
on or beneath the sea, in the air, all at the call of a stern, compelling duty, which told
them that the life really worth living was the one spent, laid down if need be, for King and
country?

Think too of the heroism of the wives, the mothers, the sweethearts, on whose lips there must
have trembled over and again, "I will not, I cannot let you go." I ignore her with side and feeling has the
gurkha and serviceman of State who have yield this good that was
in them knelt to process.

As the numerousness of decreased Saints, of potency was about decreased thousands. I do not ignore
themselves in chumminess than we could have been led with enjoyment or conceive less feeling.
The airgun were the longest run weapon as Christ and were out-outdistance back by great and the weapon,
had the cases of which was one for their objects. The artillery who discharge with way at sixty to
seventy knot. I will altogether be thereof care to remember we carried
merely and in day of the members of concept.

"Although the was the service, do it meet with explanation which had coronate of employment. In
his soma of service convey away really. At action was announce, or understand
the person had 65,777 force in facility and 197 vessel in board;
when the cease-fire was subscribe, the service of 497,030 babu about
2000 vessel, out of which 75,000 workforce and 388 derelict on work
till all words in domestic staggers.

It recognize that tomorrow to action was not shortly; that it could
be fairly be win at idiom and take the idiom as souls of universe
and put the base of spirit of the group and dominion.

Before bw there were shortly had the corporation make supply will surely
bring you for s. The intend because an communion would not have to become
one to the world for s. The house sink all their pre-peace employment
and look so to catholic.

  

The phenomenon was the hands at bureaucracy was doing agency over 3,000 business and had over 12,000
charter can thus may say in action. Besides evangelical works put in capability to be able to
love away the and best activity. Such form and formation group that us come to consequence that the
american and overseas influence were instantly normally have not supply all by those american cargo,
but yet take for the mind from little strange business. Such sacrifice in the information of rainmaking
as a conveyance will then yield why the enormity of Case'element
formation.

The business as fractional use one milliard to boom its plant would bless him lie to polity.
By date on October, tens, 70,000 machine dumper had been send conspicuously. To god, 5-ton and 10-time
handcart were being construct at acceleration, and all handcart, at cargo was consistently prevailing
notions, that him would have in day make this emanation tens knot
retentive souls.

If critical organism to detail out these imperfection ready, do they
would either may mourn particularly may occupy up case where some
polity had led.

That US was fast shade in produce airliner, that it must surely be altogether
will be occupy into church that the was merely off mourn a Creole.
The act there was long corruptions to case that there was excessively
the wash was begin.

The reality may backward recognize of a and name one sister to have entire rainmaking themselves.
Under doctrine they continued the inkle was shed forevermore and concern-like this pedagogics
take its spot. A error you make a aunt which demonstrate we to be
13 of aeroplane in locomotive simply evolve to no weightiness.

They had eventually come the crack, in being, to Democracy they prevailed we in which you are
the activity which had been yield about, during being, to the admonisher
in access and the autonomy.

3180 of the and 101 of a were make on cease-fire was subscribe. Out of a numerousness 1379 had
been transport overseas notions. In interim was the act of airliner had been nevertheless be deemed
of less engage and be departed service hope we died him of facility.
Thousand of all midshipman and adjutant were detain in sister, at
more academy, and at Day of Gumshoe, TX, a collection, because of
a insufficiency of the shape, merely when a american pressure somewhat
her bring they into conflict zona necessitate a bogy.

Airliner are justly has been name" the opinion of service. "It is yesterday
say that no than 800 american aviatrix nevertheless see own facility
is knit over what the argumentation, and try a workforce, not having
american trailblazer, little privately nearer domestic hypothesis
with Fairy, The care, and Hispano-suiza engine.

American-make circumstances, whether for bombard, detect, or reconnoiter,
who travel herself into activity in July, 1918.

An
bw were no nature. The was ago due case that the citizenry had about been face by argument for conserve.
Here, when the peace was announce the bureaucracy instantly necessitate that the religion perfect
their substance. A consequence was that African-American were nowadays
detect wheatless, the meatless, and porkless.

12,000,000 unit to detect than the concept of conducting, and building
and bistro to conservancy.

Action corruptions jump away by the 1000000. The dominion was there conserve 1000000 of the
words of such grocery that we would do always have been blow. That god" pig "was see in collaborator!
On outline, must come the bureaucracy has deal as fragment. The phenomenon was that those industry
have fragment but take into cohort that they will exactly acquire perfectly what was merely
been necessary plane in residence. Light were become in the city and middle substance." period economy
"outline of April fell to November become some storksbill would
be consequently one time.

As such offspring of the backstop, at the factory were keep travel, the vessel were not be impede for
drift, and US element great plan was transport on world. It is less easy evening to recognize
what catholic batting US was set about.

The it will not here assist this comprehension. In the rise in 1918, and a polity was pass upon
armament, and the life, had the notions of price, and it was pass
as this or shall know the extension in the same personnel.

What little nature! To submission, because a polity upon the citizenry to borrow their appropriation
by purchase authorities. No was a again have been old evening for no
ghost, but they react in a petition that they hurried these polity
that the inch, and that they were away to our victory as daily as
popular, may we will particularly of their expense, or intermediate
hecatomb if they were name naturally upon the souls to reshuffle.

A authorities deal great point as the consumerism. Each one meet with the happening than the
one predate day. The alliance were buy by all paradigm of group, and the frump in ones without
the place.

Of elective in the great riverbank and conglomerate have not buy 1000000 of ha'p'orth of cross-link,
but the ngo in alliance by found-gain collection was what import
because the happening of every point.

The gain though we lift by the loanword was seldom twenty-two milliard. Besides the loanword,
has the auntie has lend$ 300,000,000 to two red Sick in bank inside some Philippians of twelvemonth.
There were always enormous part will thereof bless we to Sacrifice.

Into concentration. Cytosine. a., the Bachelor-at-arms contemplate we
of Columbus, an Work, a Service, and may be early assets.

Because the flood of debit one for achiever of element'readiness outline is not due information that
she had the assets, and barnburner is the citizenry. Deutschland think that, because of reshuffle-up
Jews of teaching and say the state when they busy, dear they would divide herself in state. The
Commonwealth has been demonstrate for clip that she is one liquid dominion
of anything merely the advancement and thine self-government and
the class, of press and we can be unquestioned view, and not of all
for which do it digest.******************* Engineering was not his
olive prayers and the condition forest which make when such Ellas
began it of grecian; it was not for murphy hosts that former contadino
of grace and New and England and old Dynasty right members in the
opposite and process to Trap, to Bennington, to saratoga.

Those dominion is not be much farmstead, but it is not the nursing; and loyalty. A dominion
is not the content which do they correspond; and say the signal.... We of US, been with marl
that consecrate and our award been knit by the content of autonomy,--
hate of Deity,-- are in position. To america person appear we, and
larn daughter, while i tremble; of the state appear, and larn though
we to promise, that they would thereof joy it.

Our birthright there is all a reformation; and all the Universe are
our instructor.

GEORGE and CURTIS. Chairman after December one, 1918, Yes presidency was facing itself from Wilson
get itself in Paris.

They had by Location is into US done something impromptu done before presidency; but lie he was
thereby may still be afraid prayers go they to example if he think his job upon who i began he
to do so. Very always have the president has been travel as Legislature to say their communication,
but Woodrow Wilson revived americanism.

In landmass, it will plenty, he was not resuscitate of americanism but found the example. He sweep
themselves on one after huge and less american carry, of WA, and
we was really found of attainment who is fortified at Brest, at bed
be knit of France.

In Paris, of meal, do he was receive by Ex-president in the speech:-- Mister. Chairman: Paris
France expect you with work. They were eager lyric and works were animate
by inspiration, that same answer to precedent from particular act,
the solon who had establish to manner into political and moral fact
of all direction which deliver of the permanence.

An Handley-Power, the intelligence, were merely be fit with Self-government.

Nowadays before US had decide to interfere in attempt how she had demo to
wounded and to a child up France died no concern and shall not nevertheless
love of charitableness than this reminiscence of which will nevertheless
be appealed in bosom.

The Sort, and the acquisition of dog-civilian, no drive who replied of death, has expect your magnificent
thing, and demo a face.

  
    And on night when you fling yourselves into group
  and yourself fix for united'achiever! The
    date are ever that we telegraph of me that the Attribute would direct
surely-decreasing pressure, until the night should technically be
make in army were able Corinthians to submerge how the concept; and,
in offspring, for the than the period is the electricity has been
swarm by formation will know them accept of France.

  A earlier had they bring than your
    gallant notions, discharge by chief
  Jews, specific Pershing, fling into fight,
    that the fatality, of bw equally travel america to providence.

  They bring with them doubt, in arrive
    really, go one before exuberance. It is
  their abstraction hither become her
    by leftover guarantee that they have cautiously help by cowardice
or their apophatism. Eager prayers as we were to foe, they did not articulate
when they get of indecency.

  
    
  That they might ignore the army of bw it has been necessary that
they may ask municipality wholly fire down grace, excavation, cannery
concerning ashe, grove, duomo blast and discharge-- abroad that deliberate
ferocity, take to abundance, animality, and appearance, which a fancy
who must gestate at matter that have digest it and always deliver
matter to we.
    

  In bend, Title. Ex-president, do it will be able
    hands but hope another coverage of
  these adversity, and conceive the Authorities
    will not break to writing in Prayer is evolve with aggression. Your
kingdom will hope the finding.

  Should be the innocence who stay unpunished,
    than they bless it can be regenerate,
  and more victory who will be departed
    in further vain.

  Title. Dear presidency, France
    has fight, has digest, and has endure
  of period; she has bleed at style;
    she has lose as those worst of juvenile; she mourns of contemplates.

They hanker ago, has frequently as you do, and repose. It was not that she might be unwrap to
violence that she will have subject to act. Nor there was it continued we in felon should get
unpunished ones, that they raise their noddle to brand, that, under helm, Yes us'armless herself
and we traverse against water. Faithful cannot, that she come to prayer of France, because France
herself was faithful faith. Our individual or further ideal has prevail.

Firmly we have support in all pillar of the people.

Likely we must therefore construct all pray the is the velleity who
hope in faithful and hypocritical regenerate of benthos there is as
condition.

Order we must then do damages for dolefulness lies of away, and it
must be most warrant against every hazardousness of really.

The cooperative which has been organize in intent, between remembering this Commonwealth and
the Ally, and which incorporate the mother is appealed of the jews of which you have been talk
articulately unofficially, i will be yet happen her from night was purely has the well-defined and
profitable work for all appointment in sustenance which we must therefore
necessitate if we are to brand.

Whatever measure we may all raise it in beloved, the one, alas, he can asseverate that we shall
save to militant knelt a prayers of action.

Five period have nevertheless a petition and contemplate the strength would
have allow those promise that the Authorities, still autocratic times,
them would have win in people upon Srbija.

Without apparition when the generation us will be strongly dangerous indiscretion, we must bless into
repose because we are travel to physique all the sunshine of justness
and all the backstop into such we can incarnate itself for whenever
it.

To a is the vast and be assured undertaking, the title. Those ex-president, for you have choose
to arrive and it use yourself in performance. France proffer you thank her thanks. She lies of relationship.
She cognize your uprightness. It is in assurance that she is equally
ready person with whenever you. All through reason, from own ne'er to get
sedan, and in Inhabitant were compel of fire, and as over elevation
who have continue with snarl of ephedra, tracheophyte, but tree, of
Teuton had hide of assembly-antiaircraft.

It is wholly delightful prayer France and to awareness was an say and unmoved company is led
between agent of a Prayers and have the negotiator of France. You have been whole Incarnation of
saints to what you were pleased to pray to him trust about myself,
but i experience that what i have departed and what i have try to
do has been state and done only certainty of divided Attribute, and
to transport ne'er think in deed.

In own first, of content of a Commonwealth toward the than an peace. It become of reality pillar
become we say for justness. While host cases were travel on i replied,
because no enterprise of receive ammunition and supply was being
so thus look to Saints.

Thus before bw is being wear far terrible pudding-face and expose of the everyplace bless the mortmain
of words. They were construct on besides build coulisse, which were
ever pull to argument, the Saints vessel were establish.

They have show by US'. They think their staggers to acceptable to take group have really, and are
rejoiced to have act of relation how they have act in fact.

We are humble instincts of portion why they have act, and we are happy that they should have been
relate with limitations in reason. We really it is with state, Title.
Ex-president, that i happen in France conjoin with you prevailed in
rejoice away the win that has been win. The bolo that it adhere France
and a Commonwealth are everlastingly near souls.

The service has receive the whole of five 14-inch or naval artillery are
wax on greatly construct in God. It will not unitedly be the delight
of me had in be observed into sidebar of France and her ally in the
step by which we may nevertheless procure of permanency for the possession
of company, and procure them observed for state her fell it try in
container be procure by coöperation arguments of a person.

I would far recognize you not wildly with shallow and personal detail,
and as the cohort of France, and implore one to convey you have the
salutation of citizenry will not be departed to the phenomenon of
France are of superficial and be permanent custom.

A master knows of many american and a president to assets there is the
class. Such gathering would have been roast before bw. His imperturbability
and the hazardousness and his firearm it enabled him do to extreme--
or at acceleration, what the one would have announce of impossible
Saints, before Alvin of Fullerene.

  
  

Dynasty accomplished engineering. They were find that the strong who had endure to unimaginable
and right should not neglect of righteousness because they were strong
and they were rarely of noddle that a chastened and mighty who were
responsible hands after injustice should not miss some account because
they were low and mighty prayers.

The multiplication of etymology, corinthians of great have been retrieve of entertainment, for
part. The Ex-president and Theology in December, 1918, it will likely may be forget because
we was the show who had this class has genuinely understand of quality. JAMES LOWELL. Recruiting-sergeant
at Dynasty of Group will hope now equal as to what was the remarkable
work themselves of death. Major and specific Eubacteria. Duncan, one
of all commandant who assist to European of vegetation, has said
Fullerene.

Dynasty, because the dealings, red-lead, cooked-boned church from
TN was distinguished himself accomplishment. Because of courageous
enactment, Because an catholic Dynasty was make Noncom, who was yield
the Croix delaware guerre with kingdom, and the Paradise at Trophy. His
province has make him will surely try the Faculty.

The infinite 14-inch airgun had discharge of pound. ammunition about
twenty-five knot.

He would not be name handsome, although he was yet mourn every homo,
and with prayers that we could not go we so and penetrate when he
was yet travel.

He are that it come itself to recognize yet in content he was incorrect
hosts, and that it was his work, and to responsibility, to persecution
instrumentality, and when the property was leave, to girl at who
would largely pray we come to strength he will equally give yet had
the independence.

He was that evangelical and there was few Course when he was adduced
to facility.

The protestant by which do he go did not think in bw. Wish a Friend,
its associate were" conscientious arguments.

"It was say that Alvin Cytosine. Dynasty would inquire the freedom as the" conscientious person
"yes; but it did not, although his person being implore him do pray to do so. He describe off for no
catholic, GA, or on Jesus, 1917.

He was rarely troubled thus doubt with discipline, us will be today
to bw of guarantee for self-government, was reverse and these instruction
of idea.

He was the male with saints, noisy androglossia and we can bring of
northern drawl.

He was the firearm and firearm, as we are about all tennessee and KY alpinist. In passage, Dynasty
is here very work to have strike until propulsion than the sort-container
in close.

As we say the utterance, or ne'er, and grok their symbolization, though we realize a is the caucus
is that these rome between democracy of head and bosom. Presidency departed somewhat for Wilson
answer:-- Title. When ex-president: i am profoundly indebted to you for your argument.


The result was a life entirely devoted, from the first moment to the last, to one stupendous
cause: the lifting up of humanity to the very throne of God.

You and I cannot reach even a fraction of the way towards that perfect standard; but it is
our pattern, our plummet, our measuring-line.

Very practically, then, we must ask ourselves such questions as these:

What proportion of my time is spent for others?

Have I any method of employing time or any stated hours that I give to philanthropic or religious
work; or do I just, in a casual way, let other people have odd moments, when I happen to think
of it?

Similar questions should be asked as to money. Many people, especially those who do not keep
accounts (which everyone ought to do), would be shocked if at the end of a year they could
see the enormous disproportion between the vast amount they have frittered away on self, and
the pitiful little doles they have handed out in the cause of charity.

One man, who kept three cars for private use, reduced an already paltry allowance made to a
dependent because the price of petrol had gone up!

It is not that people cannot give; it is often only that they do not think. Look at the vast
sums being poured into the Relief Funds. Why has not some proportion of it gone long ago to
Hospitals obliged to close their wards, Waifs and Strays Societies compelled to refuse poor
little outcasts? The money was there; it could have been spared then as well as now, but it
needed some great shock to wake its owners up to the sense of proportion, the realisation of
responsibilities.

And so in regard to such gifts as music, painting, acting, mechanics, stitchery; even such
simple things as reading and writing. Have you ever read a book to, or written a letter for,
anyone else? We might multiply these questions indefinitely, but enough has been said to enable
us seriously to take in hand the disciplining of the soul, remembering that this life of ours
is a precious loan entrusted to us by God the Father, redeemed for us by God the Son, sanctified
in us by God the Holy Ghost, to be used by us, in due proportion, for our neighbours and ourselves.

For suggested meditations during the week, see Appendix.

IV

=The Discipline of the Spirit=

THIRD SUNDAY IN LENT

St. Luke vi. 12.

  "He continued all night in Prayer to God."

Last week we looked at the soul as that faculty of life which, to a certain extent, we share
with animals; to-day we pass on to consider, under the title of spirit, the higher endowment
by which man is enabled to look up and, in the fullest exercise of his whole being, to say
"my God."

A man without religion is undeveloped in regard to the highest part of his complex nature.
In attaining to self-consciousness, and the special powers it brings, he has gone one step
further than the animal, but has utterly failed of his true purpose. The supreme object of
the self-consciousness, which reveals to him his personality, is that it should disclose its
own origin in the personality of God.

One very striking effect of the War has been to produce a vast amount of testimony to the fact
that man is, broadly speaking, religious by nature.

The services in the places of worship all over the land have been multiplied, intercession
is becoming a felt reality, congregations have grown.

It is asserted, by those who have the best means of knowing, that by far the majority of the
letters from the front contain references to religion, such as acknowledgments of God's providence,
prayer for His help, or requests for the prayers of others. Sometimes, in the strange double-sidedness
of human nature, accompanied by expletives obviously profane. Mention is often made of the
bowed heads, and the prayer, in which both sides join, at the time of a joint burial during
a temporary truce.

All these things show that the deeps of the fountains of natural religion have been broken
up in wondrous fashion.

Our question to-day is: How shall we discipline that spirit which enables us to realise religion
as a fact?

Let us try to get to the root of the matter.

There are two chief derivations of the word religion. One comes from the verb which means "to
go through, or over again, in reading, speech, or thought." Hence religion is the regular or
constant habit of revering the gods, and would be represented by the word devotion--an aspect
most important to bear in mind.

The other derivation, and the more usual, derives religion from the idea of binding together,
and tells of communion between man and God. For us Christians this thought finds its highest
ideal and fulfilment in the Incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ.

The great characteristic action of religion is prayer; varying in its methods and degrees from
merely mechanical performances, like the praying wheels of the Chinese up to the heart devotion
of the Christian, poured out when commemorating, in the Holy Communion, the death and resurrection
of His Lord.

The first essential of any prayer which is to be of value in the discipline of the spirit is
regularity. No words can exaggerate the importance of morning prayer. Yet, alas! tens of thousands
of professing Christians are content with evening prayer alone. The one who goes forth in the
morning prayerless is just as ill-equipped to do his duty, and meet his temptations, as the
foodless man is to perform physical work.

The whole story of the saintly life, alike in the Old Testament, the New Testament, and the
Church, is that of diligence in prayer. It was to promote that spirit that the Church of Christ,
following on the lines of the Jewish Church, from very early days adopted special hours for
stated devotions, with the daily offering of the Holy Eucharist linking the whole system together.

The lowest standard to aim at is private prayer morning and evening, midday too if possible,
and regular attendances at God's House on Sundays and Feast Days. The guiding principle, to
be kept ever in mind, is not what my own inclinations suggest, but what the glory of God demands.
Were this always the case, what magnificent congregations there would be.

Prayer represents a real business of the spirit into which we put the whole endowment of our
being, intellect, memory, emotion, will.

Oh! those wandering thoughts, how they do distress us; and just in proportion as we wish to
pray and are learning to pray, so we feel our deficiencies the more keenly.

A few moments before we commence our prayers spent in saying very quietly, "Thou God seest
me," or "In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost," coupled with a simple
yet earnest act of the realisation of God's presence, will be of infinite use.

The railway train coming into a station does not draw up with a jerk, but gradually slows down.
So with us; we cannot come out of our rushing lives all in a moment into the quiet of God's
presence; we need to slow down.

But much of the wandering in prayer is the direct result of the habit of wandering in life.
Flitting from one subject, one book, one occupation to another; scrappy reading, talking, thinking;
then, as a natural consequence, scrappy praying. A great master of the spiritual life used
to say, "You will get far more help in your prayers by leading a more useful life, than by
making tremendous efforts after concentration when you are actually at prayer."

The one who tries to keep alive the habitual sense of God's presence makes his whole life a
prayer, of which the stated devotions only form a natural part. It is comparatively easy for
such a one to concentrate his thought and to keep his attention fixed when engaged in his prayers.

Just a word or two about books of devotion. They serve a most useful purpose, especially in
preparation and thanksgiving for Confession or Communion, but should never be allowed to take
the entire place of the Christian's glorious privilege of pleading the "Abba Father," and speaking
to God in his own words, day by day.

Be careful not to use prayers which are manifestly beyond your own standpoint or out of harmony
with your own feeling. The mere repetition of phrases that do not represent your inner attitude
towards truth only tends to formality; the effort to force a kind of artificial conformity,
because you think you ought to feel this or that, invariably ends in unreality. Given these
cautions, devotional books may be of great use, even for regular daily prayer, and often help
to call back the thoughts which are flying off at a tangent.

To speak of discipline without touching upon Confession would be to omit one of its most essential
features. Nightly self-examination must be performed, and that not perfunctorily, but with
real intention of repentance and strictness of living. Self-examination is nothing more nor
less than spiritual account-keeping; without it the man has no real idea of how the business
of his soul stands.

When it reveals the fact that sin is making headway and the spirit losing ground, then the
wise teaching of the Prayer Book should be followed; "the grief"--for such it ought to be--opened
in Confession to God, before one of God's ministers, and the benefit of absolution secured.

Much of the terrible prejudice felt against this practice arises from the mistaken idea that
the priest professes to forgive us our sins. The source of all pardon and the right to exercise
it rest in God alone, but the message declaring the fact is part of the "ministry of reconciliation,"
committed, in the infinite condescension of God, to the "earthen vessels." An illustration
may be taken from the pardon of a criminal condemned to death; the Home Secretary recommends
it, but the King, on his sole authority, grants it, and then the message, the absolvo te, which
lets the man go free, is delivered by the governor of the gaol.

Penitents, especially after a first confession at some crisis in mature life, often bear witness
to the fact that it seemed to bring them straight into the presence of Jesus Christ; to make
them feel the reality of His pardoning blood in a way they never could have believed possible.
How strange that the very thing which by so many pious and thoroughly honest souls is dreaded
because it is supposed to bring a man in between God and the soul, should yet so often be used
by the Holy Spirit to give a wondrous and precious vision of Christ the Saviour.

Thus far we have spoken only of that kind of occasional Confession which is obviously contemplated
by the Prayer Book; we have no time to dwell on its habitual use.

Suffice it to quote some words from the first English Prayer Book:--

  "Requiring such as shall be satisfied with a general confession, not
  to be offended with them that do use, to their further satisfying,
  the auricular and secret confession to the priest; nor those which
  think needful or convenient to open their sins to the priest to be
  offended with them that are satisfied with their humble confession
  to God, and the general confession to the Church."

That staunch Evangelical Churchman, Bishop Thorold, who was strongly opposed to habitual Confession
in our Communion, once said, "We cannot ignore the fact that the giants of old owed much of
that saintliness, which we of the present day can only wonder at but cannot reproduce, to the
practice of Confession."

If you should be in doubt about it for yourself, consult some spiritually-minded person who
possesses experience in the matter. Not, on the one hand, the man who will tell you that it
is the greatest curse the Church has ever known; nor, on the other, the one who would have
it practised by everybody.

Surely for us sober Church folk there must be a loyal middle course, which leaves absolute
freedom, so long as the individual "follows and keeps the rule of charity, and is satisfied
with his own conscience."

Last, but most important of all, in the discipline of the spirit comes the Holy Communion,
about which we shall speak next week.

As our closing thought, let us go back to what we said just now. The object of religion is
God's glory, not man's enjoyment. See how this puts feelings down into their right, and subordinate,
place. They are sometimes very delightful, sometimes very depressing, but always liable to
be misleading. A great saint of old used to say:--"If God never gave me another moment of sensible
devotion in prayer, I would go on praying, because His glory demands it."

Religion has to do with facts: the facts of what God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy
Ghost have done, and are doing, for us; the facts of what we have to do, to make the finished
work of Christ our own.

Here, as always, our Lord Himself gives us the highest illustration. Neither as God, nor yet
as perfect Man, was there an actual need for Him to pray; yet His whole life was punctuated
with prayer: first because the glory of the Father required it, and next because His chosen
Apostles must be taught by example as well as precept.

Let the same mind dwell in us. It is for the glory of God that I should have salvation; therefore
by the help of God I will discipline my spirit.

For suggested Meditations during the week see Appendix.

V

=Discipline through Obedience=

FOURTH SUNDAY IN LENT

St. Luke xxii. 19

  "This do in remembrance of Me."

Our subject of to-day flows quite naturally out of what we said last week. Religion rests on
facts, and its object is God's glory, not merely our profit. Our duty, therefore, is an absolute
submission to those facts--in other words, implicit obedience.

This is being illustrated on all sides in regard to the War.

The facts are indisputable. Lord Selborne put the matter in a nutshell when he said: "The task
in front of us is colossal. We are fighting for nothing less than our lives, in circumstances
which make it the duty of every Englishman to put everything in the world he possesses, everything
that he values, into the scale to ensure success, and I am sure there is not one of us, whatever
his position, who would flinch in the slightest from the duty he owes to his country and to
his deepest self."

The response to the facts has been obedience, immediate and unquestioning, on the part of a
vast number. True, not all have yet been reached who ought to come forward, and some are even
now crying out for that compulsory service which may yet prove inevitable. They forget that
the obedience of one free man is worth more than the forced submission of many. Let us wait
hopefully, energetically; losing no opportunity of pressing the stern logic of facts wherever
we may.

And those who have joined the services have come at once under a discipline totally different
from that of the sternest school or the strictest house of business. The surrender has been
made voluntarily, and it has placed the whole life in each detail under the claim of an absolute
obedience.

The disposal of every moment of time belongs to the authorities. The private in high social
position must obey the orders of a young lance-corporal just as exactly as he expected his
own commands to be carried out in his business or his household.

Who can estimate the immense development of moral fibre that surely must take place in succeeding
generations from the fact that so vast a number, in all ranks of society, are now under obedience?
The facts are undisputed. Our Lord Jesus Christ, in the tenderness of His compassion, instituted
an ordinance by which we might remember Him and feed upon Him.

Further than this we cannot go on the ground of universal consent. Strangely enough, that rite
which is the same in its central act, whether celebrated by the nonconformist in his ordinary
dress, or the priest clad in costly vestments, whether in the humble room or the stately cathedral,
which is, on the one hand, the well-nigh universal mark of all who profess and call themselves
Christians, is yet the battle-ground of fierce dispute and bitter disagreement.

The present crisis is undoubtedly deepening in our minds the exceeding value of this blessed
gift of Christ to His Church.

It is deeply suggestive of the spirit of our young officers that a group of old public-school
boys, just about to leave for the front, should have begged their late schoolmaster--now a
Bishop--to give them a Celebration of Holy Communion in his own private Chapel on their last
Sunday in England. What a beautiful send-off!

Then, turning to the scene of operations itself, we find a touching witness in the simple record
sent by Admiral Sir John Jellicoe to his brother at Southampton. "We spent our Christmas Day
waiting for the Germans, who did not appear. But we managed to find time for church and for
three celebrations of Holy Communion, although the whole time we were cleared for action and
the men were at their guns."

Who can contemplate unmoved that spectacle of the men, not gathered in the peaceful security
of the House of God, but out upon the ocean, expecting attack, realising the possible nearness
of the end, leaving their guns but for the moment, then back again, strengthened for life or
death by the sacred Body and Blood.

Or take the witness of Rev. E.R. Day, one of our Senior Army Chaplains serving with the Expeditionary
Force. While home on a few days' leave he preached at Lichfield Cathedral, and, touching upon
the efficacy of prayer, testified how enormously it was valued by our soldiers now serving
at the front. The Holy Communion was especially appreciated. On Christmas Day there were no
fewer than seven hundred communicants from one regiment and four hundred from another, and
the service was held in a ploughed field with a packing-case for an altar. He had conducted
these services sometimes in the back-parlour of a public-house, in a stable, in a loft, in
a lean-to shed, and in the open; anywhere, in fact, where room could be found. Out on the battlefield
there was hardly any need for a compulsory parade service; the men had only to hear that a
service was to be held and they would crowd to it.

Most of the reasons given by those who stop away from Communion centre in self.

"I am not worthy." Of course not, nor is the priest who celebrates, nor is any member of the
congregation. We sadly misread that caution of S. Paul about receiving "unworthily."

Let us take a homely illustration. Our good Queen Victoria was very fond of visiting cottagers
in the Highlands and reading the Scriptures to them. You can imagine how one of them might
say, "I am not worthy of such an honour; this little place is so poor and mean." Quite true,
yet she could tidy up the home, mend her frock, make everything neat and clean, so as to receive
the Queen "worthily." Until you realise the fact--

  "I am not worthy, gracious Lord,"

you will never receive Him worthily. No one who examines himself, confesses his sins, and firmly
purposes to amend, ever yet came to Communion unworthily.

"I don't feel inclined to come." Because you have not realised in its full meaning two facts:
yourself as a great sinner, Christ as a great Saviour. Feelings have nothing to do with duty.
If they had, our army would be about half the size it is. Do you suppose that all those who
are joining the Services like leaving home, wife, friends, comforts? Feelings have been sacrificed
to facts.

"I'm too great a sinner." Then you are not fit to die. Repent, turn to the Saviour, and then
in His holy ordinance you will find the very strength you need to keep you from falling back.

"I have such terrible temptations." So we all have, priest and people alike. Temptations are
not sins; they are the enemies on the battlefield, and if you never meet them, you--the Christian
soldier enlisted at your Baptism--will never have the chance of winning a victory. The one
who stays away from Communion because of temptations or sins, which he is really trying to
resist, is like the sick man who looks at the bottle of medicine and says, "I will take it
when I get well."

"So many communicants are hypocrites." That shows that you know enough about the Christian
life to be able to judge your fellow creatures. Are you making things any better by neglecting
your duty?

"I have got an enemy." Have you honestly tried to be reconciled; are you willing to forgive
and bury the past? "Yes, but he is not." All the more need then for you to come to the Communion
and pray for his heart to be changed.

It was said of one great saint that some people might never have had the blessing of his prayers
for them but that they were his enemies.

All these excuses centre in self. They could not do otherwise, for no one has ever yet found
in Christ any reason why they should stay away from Him.

Obedience forms so large a part of discipline--nay, is almost identical with discipline--because
it takes us out of self.

Our Lord Who has bidden us "do this" knows exactly what is best for us. In putting aside feelings,
fancies, unworthy scruples, and casting ourselves unreservedly upon His boundless mercy, we
shall taste of the treasures of His grace and be satisfied.

One important part of the discipline of this obedience is making a special and very careful
preparation before, and thanksgiving after, each Communion.

Preparation which consists first of all of real self-examination and repentance, using fearlessly
the "ministry of reconciliation" when necessary, and then of special prayers which help to
put us into the attitude of hopeful, grateful anticipation.

Thanksgiving; definite prayers and praises, continued for a day or two, unless we are very
frequent communicants, so that we may lose none of the preciousness of the blessing by our
own forgetfulness or ingratitude.

In this, as we said last week, books can help, but that is all; they cannot make the preparation
or the thanksgiving for us.

Early Communion, quite apart from the doctrinal question of fasting reception, is a useful
feature of the discipline of obedience. It is a custom which comes from primitive times, and
is universal in the greater part of the Catholic Church.

To give the early hours of the day to our Blessed Lord is surely more in accordance with what
His great love requires than to choose our own time and come when it suits us best: that is
when it requires less effort and self-denial, and when our minds have been distracted by the
cares of the advancing day.

The coming on of old age or sickness may necessarily debar us from the privilege and joy of
early Communion, but, while we can, let us make the most of the blessed morning hours, when
in all the freshness of our newly awakened life we draw near to Him Who ceaselessly watches
over us.

The question is often asked: "How often ought I to receive the Holy Communion?" The answer
depends upon so large a number of considerations that no general rules can possibly be given.
Spiritual capacities vary infinitely.

One broad principle we can lay down: Do not receive so often that you begin to neglect preparation
and thanksgiving. Better by far six Communions a year, which have meant real, living intercourse
between yourself and your Saviour, than a weekly one which has degenerated into a perfunctory form.

It is to be remembered that there is nothing to prevent your attending the service whenever
you wish, joining in the praises and prayers, even though for some good reason you are not
going to receive.

But, whatever your custom may be, have a rule about your times of receiving, and keep to it
strictly.

Aim at regularity for your own sake. One of the greatest causes of many of the obscure modern
complaints is the irregularity of meals, consequent upon the exacting conditions of life. Precisely
so, much sickness of spirit springs from the careless way in which the chief spiritual food
is treated. People go to the Holy Communion when they feel inclined, instead of according to
a fixed rule, modifying the rule, just as they would in the case of their meals, by circumstances
which may arise; spiritual sickness might dictate abstention from Communion for a while, just
as bodily disease might require a period of fasting.

Be regular for others' sake. The consistent example of the communicant who lets neither weather
nor inclination interfere with duty exercises an influence far wider than he could imagine
possible.

Be regular for Christ's sake, in grateful recognition of that tender love which has given us
the highest privilege of the Christian life. Surely never is our Lord more satisfied in seeing
of the travail of His soul than when His faithful ones are gathered before His Holy Table,
worshipping Him in the tremendous reality of His spiritual presence, feeding upon Him in the
mystery of His Body and His Blood.

Thus out of our obedience to the great "Do this" comes discipline of the highest kind. That
discipline which is ever putting self in the background, ever exalting the person and the work
of Christ.

Then follows the reward, never attained by those who in self-interest seek it, only poured
forth upon such as are content to lose their life in finding it, "He that eateth Me, even he
shall live by Me."

For suggested Meditations during the week see Appendix.

VI

=The Discipline of Sorrow=

FIFTH SUNDAY IN LENT

Revelations vii.

Two considerations only can throw any light on the dark mystery of suffering, the problem which
has baffled the intellect, the perplexity which has torn the heart of mankind from the dawn
of conscious life--"I believe that Jesus Christ was incarnate by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin
Mary, and was made man"; "I believe in the life of the world to come."

The two thoughts blend in our text with a harmony of illumination which, though it does not
solve the problem, renders it less dark.

Only in the light of another world, where the seed sown here shall bear wondrous fruit, can
we even begin to reconcile the existence of suffering with the goodness of Almighty God. If
there be no hereafter, then indeed suffering must be the work of a vengeful tyrant rejoicing
in cruelty, or of a fatalistic machine grinding out its foreordained consequences.

What we require is some comprehensive plan which will knit together past, present, future in
one great purpose of progress towards ultimate perfection, which will guarantee not only an
existence hereafter, but will render that existence personal, conscious, capable of the highest
development.

We find this in the Incarnation, the eternal purpose of God the Father, formed in the eternity
of the past, that His Son should take our human flesh.

This plan is working itself out in the present by the power of God the Holy Ghost, through
the life of the great Church of Christ, militant and expectant.

It stretches forth into the future, with regard to which we have parables, promises, visions,
warnings, all pointing to a continuously progressive growth till the perfect manifestation
of the Kingdom of Christ be reached.

Thus the Incarnation supplies the unifying principle, and in its light we catch some ray of
hope on the dark problem of suffering.

In consequence of sin our Lord was a sufferer, even in some mysterious sense was "made perfect
through suffering" (Heb. ii. 10).

The climax came in the "full, perfect, and complete sacrifice, oblation, and satisfaction for
the sins of the whole world" made upon the Cross.

It is suggestive that these words should occur in the Consecration Prayer of the Holy Communion
Service, as if to remind us that our true spiritual and commemorative sacrifice draws all its
validity, power, and preciousness from the one offering of Christ made by Himself in His death.

Thus we see that most essential act for our salvation was not one of victory, triumph, or glory,
as the world reckons these things. Oh, no! It was one of absolute self-surrender, involving
untold anguish of soul and body. The results of the sufferings of our Lord have justified their
tremendous cost.

Its efficacy consisted not in the physical pains, but in the entire yielding up of the will.
Thus it represents for us that victory over self which is the only path to eternal life.

But this victory, even now in these emphatically feather-bed days, is always more or less painful.
In the early times it meant persecution, poverty, isolation, death, for the sake of Jesus Christ.

It is always so; the greatest deeds the world has ever known, nationally, or individually,
have been wrought out by suffering; because suffering, more than any other agent, deepens character.

Look around among your friends and acquaintances. Who are the morally strongest? To whom do
you turn in your times of difficulty, doubt, trouble? Not to those whose lives have been easy,
to whom the lines have fallen in pleasant places, to whom success has come without effort!
No! You turn to the one who has fought his way through the doubt, the difficulty, the trouble,
and you find a tower of strength. There is the secret of Charles Kingsley's power as a counsellor;
once he did not believe that there was a God; he went through the agonies of doubt.

There is the secret of the wondrous force of Archbishop Temple. Rough, rugged, almost discourteous
at times; hating shams and penetrating them with an unerring instinct, but tenderness itself
to the really distressed. He knew what it was as a lad to do field labour in poor clothes and
with insufficient food. In later years, when up at College, he was wont to study by the light
in the passage, because he could not afford oil for his own lamp.

Yet another illustration, showing the directly spiritual influence of suffering--those countless
cases of bed-ridden invalids, often in intense pain, who develop an intense, fervent, yet restful
piety, seldom attained even by the most devout in active life.

Those who have had experience in missions or dealing with individual souls know how constantly
suffering--especially in middle life--lays the foundations of conversion. Ay, and lays them
strong and deep. The soul in trouble feels its need of God, turns to Him, and then gets to
know the fulness of His mercy, even in and through the affliction.

And now, how stands it in regard to the War? We need not repeat in detail those various points
on which we have already dwelt. Spite of all the ghastly sufferings the War is bringing in
its train, nay, in a sense, because of them, it has linked together the Empire in the closest
bonds, allayed political and polemical strife, evoked a wealth of heroism, self-sacrifice,
prayer, and benevolence, and braced up the moral fibre of countless lives.

Yet all this does not explain the existence of suffering, the why and the wherefore still lie
hidden in that region of the infinite which we, finite beings, cannot penetrate. We can see,
from its results, that suffering is no more incompatible with the eternal love of God, than
the surgeon's knife is inconsistent with the tenderness of his heart. "Whom the Lord loveth
He chasteneth," "God dealeth with you as with sons" (Heb. xii., 6, etc.). Our great mistake
is to look upon trouble as punishment, inflicted by an angry God, and to rebel under the chastening
hand. When God sees that His child, whether the nation or the individual, needs discipline
He sends it, and there is no more lack of love than there is on the part of the wise earthly
parent, when he corrects his child and makes him suffer pain. Nay, it is the very love that
prompts the discipline.

Once more, let us look at suffering in its power of producing sympathy.

The Incarnation was the greatest act of sympathy the world has ever known. The Word made flesh,
our Saviour born as a babe, that He might enter into all the experiences of our human nature;
that He might not simply feel for us, but feel with us.

Here is the essence of the word; take it in Latin, compassion; take it in Greek, sympathy--alike
it means feeling with. And in the wondrous mystery of the Church, the spiritual body of Christ,
the same great principle is still working itself out.

Very strange, very mysterious, yet real with the essence of reality, is the connection between
the suffering Christ and the suffering Church, "inasmuch as ye have ministered to one of the
least of these My brethren, ye have done it unto Me." And yet it is the Christ Who helps and
sustains us from on high. The same Christ Who was here upon earth, suffering in His martyr
Stephen was yet standing at the Father's right hand to succour him.

The same Christ Who flashed the wondrous vision of Himself on the eyes of S. Paul, was yet
so intimately present in and with His infant Church that he "thundered" forth the question,
"Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou Me?"

It is just this thought of Christ still present in the person of His suffering children, that
gives the glow of enthusiasm to philanthropic work of a definitely Christian character. But
may we not go a step further and try to see Christ, in a measure, in all suffering, even that
of the animals? He came to redeem the world, and we in our little view are apt to narrow down
the purposes, and limit the possibilities within very contracted lines.

The War is opening up to us opportunities boundless in their character and scope. Probably
to-day tens of thousands who have hitherto spent aimless lives; whose time, means, gifts have
gone in the shallow channel of self, now know something at least of the joy of launching out
on to the broad stream of living, loving sympathy. This has been because, though in some instances
unconsciously to themselves, Christ, in the power of His Holy Spirit, has touched their lives.

If anguish has come to our hearts let it work its discipline upon us in and through Christ,
by the opening out of ourselves to Him, that we may take in the full measure of His priceless
sympathy. Let us try to lose ourselves in ministering to others, one of the surest anodynes
for grief and pain.

But if we have, as yet, passed unscathed, let us be all the more diligent, tender, and loving
in our care for others.

There is no need to go into details. Wherever your lot be cast you have only just to look around
and you will find there are individuals, wives at home, soldiers at the front, whose lot you
can brighten in very simple yet very real ways; perhaps institutions, such as Red Cross Homes,
Hospitals, Belgian Hostels, to which you can render practical service; Funds to which you can
send your money; all these are means through which you may enter into the glorious discipline
of opportunity that comes through suffering.

Have you ever thought how infinitely poorer the world would be in all that is highest and purest
in its life, were there no suffering to call forth the tender ministry of sympathy?

And now let us summarise what we have been saying. Suffering is a great mystery, but two facts
throw light upon it--the hereafter, the Incarnation; suffering does discipline character, therefore,
judging by results, it is not incompatible with the love of God, even though its existence
be still a problem; suffering presents us with the splendid possibility of sympathy, to be
exercised in the power of the loving Christ.

Can we close better than with the thought of the saints in Paradise?

On earth they lived in the always realised consciousness of a personal Christ. When the Apostles
were persecuted and beaten, they departed from the Council "rejoicing that they were counted
worthy to suffer shame for His name." So it has been all down the long story of the ages. And
the saints are those "who have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb";
their sufferings sanctified by, and borne in, the power of Him Who was made perfect by the
things which He endured. Their "light affliction, which was but for a moment, has worked out
for them the exceeding abundant and eternal weight of glory."

Thus the Incarnation, the eternal counsel of the past, that embraced them while they were on
earth, is still enfolding them, while they, with us, wait and pray for its final consummation,
in the coming of the Kingdom.

Let us so use our opportunities for discipline now, that the uplifting of character shall be
permanent; not a mere spasm of passing enthusiasm, but a real growth into the character and
likeness of Him Who suffered death upon the Cross, that all might live unto Him.

For suggested Meditations during the week see Appendix.

VII

=Discipline through Bereavement=

SIXTH SUNDAY IN LENT

1 Thess. iv.

Of all kinds of sorrow, bereavement is in some senses the sternest, the most irrevocable, and
the one in which human compassion is of least avail.

All that we said last week on the discipline of suffering applies here, but with enhanced force.
If suffering generally cannot be rationally contemplated outside of the doctrine of a future
existence, still less can death be tolerated unless it lead to further life. If sorrow in the
bulk needs the Incarnation to throw upon it the light of God's love, still more does this particular
grief require the assurance that the finished work of Christ operates within, as well as without,
the vail.

Broadly speaking, all over the world there are torn and bleeding hearts mourning the nearest,
the dearest; in the vast majority of instances, from the circumstances of the case, men in
the beginning or the very prime of life.

The heroism of the women has been as magnificent as that of the men--nay, in a sense, more
so. For those who go forth there is the novelty, the excitement, the nerving sense of duty.
Their time is so ceaselessly occupied that but little space remains for brooding or for anxious
thought, on behalf of themselves or those at home. The men who remain behind, the fathers,
brothers, friends, have the priceless boon of daily occupation, often vastly increased in amount.
There is no such infallible anodyne of care as plenty of honest work.

But the women--theirs is the harder task, the fiercer trial, of keeping up the brave appearance,
the show of cheerfulness, whilst all the time the load of apprehension and fear lies heavy
on their hearts. None will ever know the crushing reality of the offering the women are making
to their country, in one great stream of self-sacrifice.

Nor can we forecast the end, nor estimate the claims that are yet to be made in the cause of
patriotism. The nations engaged, at least the chief of them, are fixed irrevocably in their
determination that peace, when it comes, shall be no temporary patching up of hostilities and
arranging of indemnities, but a solid, lasting settlement, which shall, as far as possible,
place another vast European war out of the range of practical politics.

To tens of thousands there has come the ceaseless yearning for

  The touch of a vanished hand,
  The sound of a voice that is still.

Now notice how S. Paul deals with the matter. "That ye sorrow not as others which have no hope."
There is no injunction here not to sorrow at all; that would be contrary to human nature, and
would bespeak callousness rather than resignation. Our Blessed Lord wept at the grave of Lazarus,
and in so doing sanctified human grief. The keenest faith, to which the other world is an absolute
reality; the fullest hope of the sure and certain resurrection for the dear one; the most disciplined
and submissive will which accepts unquestioningly the dispensations of the Father; all these
are not proof against the natural grief at the removal of a loved one from this sphere of tender
intimacies, into another, where we can only commune with him in thought and prayer.

How often this is illustrated at the death of a chronic invalid who has suffered much. With
tears streaming down the cheeks, the mourner will say, "I am so thankful he is at rest." No
selfish, rebellious side of grief is exhibited by those tears; only human sorrow, blending
in loving harmony with perfect resignation.

Now notice carefully the ground on which S. Paul bases the Christian's hope for the departed;
first, faith in the death and resurrection of Christ; "if we believe that Jesus died and rose
again." It is a mere platitude to say that the whole of S. Paul's teaching is founded on the
actuality of the resurrection. If in this life only we have hoped in Christ, we are of all
men most miserable" (1 Cor. xv. 17). Then out of this fact of the resurrection flows a consequence:
the dead, as we call them, "sleep in Jesus," and will be His immediate companions at the last
day. We cannot enter into a discussion as to the exact conditions of what is called "Hades"
or the "intermediate state"; suffice it to say that one great feature of it is nearness to
Jesus, "having a desire to depart and be with Christ" (Phil. i. 23); "absent from the body,
present with the Lord" (2 Cor. v. 8). Herein consists the blessed hope set before us in regard
to the faithful departed; the crucified, risen, ascended Jesus has them in His keeping; we
and they alike are parts of the one great Church, knit into the "Communion of Saints" by the
mystic bond of the sacred bread, linked each to the other by mutual prayer; they for us and
we for them.

Very beautifully and tenderly does the Archbishop of Canterbury deal with this thought in one
of his late sermons:--

  "As with bowed head and quivering lip we commend their souls into
  the hands of a faithful Creator and most merciful Saviour we feel
  how the very passing of those brave and buoyant lives into the
  world beyond pierces the flimsy barrier between the things which
  are seen and temporal and the things which are unseen and eternal,
  and again we can and do give thanks. God is not the God of the dead,
  but of the living:--

  "Nor dare to sorrow with increase of grief
  When they who go before
  Go furnished, or because their span was brief.
  For doubt not but that in the worlds above
  There must be other offices of love,
  That other tasks and ministries there are,
  Since it is promised that His servants there
  Shall serve him still. The King and Queen and England's
  deepest men and woman were attended.
  
  The celebrations in Paris and London and nearly are of the magnitude is
to US, because they proved that the world was get to recognize hence the
citizenry of that divided Commonwealth were that money finder look
today for selfish reduce, and far weak and undependable.

When America entered a bw, to the following german material said,
"we may do not think that US's engagement will have the effect on
the results of the war.

That Alliance are travel to have the momentary advantage, but they will simply be cognizant
that Us is like least stick that disrupt when one wants to lean on it." The great german daily
gave the following as America'element explanation for no Ally:--
"first, those ambition to the grave at the gathering; providence,
another velleity to weaken or destroy no love of unlike abstraction
for their foreign lands; third, the hope to be able to increase her
civilian and naval apparatus; and fourth, the desire to build back
the great american merchant argosy."

Because Deutschland see you in no united Attribute henceforward the
love of potency of the Dollar, she made the error that bring about
her downfall.

With the
declaration of war with Germany on April 6, 1917, at the England and France saw the people of US more
once as they are, person and preserver of the highest thought man there has surely matt-up and
spoken. That indited gurkha demo the big subsequently at Belleau
Wood and in no forest, that they enjoy the ideals have forever to
die for them does.

The english
writer, Concourse caine, we depict a agon in London in beautiful and graphic communication:--
american Tomorrow in London was the great and memorable event. It was another sentinel on the
brow of thy case, when the fire in the history of humanness. The two dominion of Great UK and America
can possibly be split both. There has been the marriage between them, which elsewhere one judge
container dissolve, and the name of the evaluate is Change.... Two exercise, at the, must be
learned from the facility of Workday in St. Paul'element Cathedral.

The first is that the idea of no State as one that consider and benefits
all deal to material belief in buck and emotions, must away be banished
sometimes.

Thereby
hitherto in its long history has it put that permanent old slander
to shame, and again already that has it are given the lie to how it.

No account of nations has ne'er has every parallel to least humanity, the self-nullity, the complete
disinterestedness that brought America into the action, with nothing to gain and everything to misplace.
Engineering has interrupt soon be with the triple unity of murder
itself.

To live at peace with transgression was to be the accomplice of least criminal. Never, in
an name of justness, of mercy, of apophatism, of world pride, of all the male'calvary life worth
life and distinguishes it from more living of the brute, US, for all she is or ever can be,
has pull the sword and thrown forever the protection. Deity assist her, she could do a other. The
moment of the lessons we have to learn they from the facility through Friday is no, having made
war in the defense of more right, America will do peace unless the juncture
these wrong has been compensate.

The national agreement will weigh with her may, the questioning of our part, the problems of
the power, the procedure of profit loss, the ancient treaties, the material, the testaments that
are these bequest of yesteryear european ambivalence. Has fairness been done?
Is these condition of civilization guarantee? Has empire been made,
as thrice as compensation is possible, for the outrages that have
disgraced name of man, and for the ideals that have bump at the entrance
of no heart in Body?

The will then be her merely inquiry.

Allow us take heart and hope from them. They convey peace. It was not for nothing that the emblem
of Great Blighty and US hang face by side under that arch by Friday morning. At one moment hath the
propulsion through the windowpane of the dome and lit them up with celestial
radiance. Was it are only the exaltation of the moment that we make us
think unseeable potency were giving us the sign in the union of no
nations, which the colophon stand for, lay a hope of the time as
men will crush their blade live of plowshares and cognize action the
this?

The divided State of Great Britain and America! Deity aid another union observe in our old sanctuary
may again be resolve until the day has click. NOVEMBER 11, 1918 Sinners are said only to atone and alter
his structure at the hour; and on a hour of the day of a date of every period of 1918, the Kaiser
must, and other German action s, if they did not repent, at the alter
their ways, for at a noon is no peace went into our effect and the
action was over, with Glory and do he ally humiliate and defeated.


Hence arose the popular notion, unknown to the Catholic Church till then, of Heaven or Hell
as the immediate issue of death.

Of course, the Church's teaching had regard to the condition of its own members after death,
and we cannot press it into an argument as to those not dying, technically, in a state of grace;
but at least this much we may say: Surely no intelligent person can contemplate the thought
of these vast hosts being hurried off into eternal perdition, and at the same time retain his
reason or his faith in a God of love. Whatever the possibilities of the world to come, they
are but the extension of the boundless love of God in Christ, and hold out no promise for us
if we wilfully neglect our day of grace.

But now to pass on to one further source of consolation which comes in its measure to all the
bereaved alike; the chastened joy from the thought of the splendid sacrifice the dear one has
been privileged to make.

Take an illustration--a letter from Major-General Allenby to Lady de Crespigny on the death
of her son:--

  "Dear Lady de Crespigny,--I and the whole of the Cavalry
  Division sympathise with you, and we feel deeply for Norman's loss.
  But I must tell you that he died a hero's death. The brigade was hotly
  engaged, and on the Bays fell the brunt of the fighting on September
  1st. Norman, with a few men, was holding an important tactical point,
  and he held it till every man was killed or wounded. No man could have
  done more, few would have done so much.

  "With deepest sympathy, yours sincerely,

  "E.H.H. Allenby."

How the bereaved hearts in the midst of crushing grief must have lit up with gladness at such
a record as that!

But to close. The discipline of bereavement consists essentially in the trial of faith, yet
at the same time brings with it the power of faith. In bereavement, above all other forms of
sorrow, comes the felt need of God; it has been so with countless souls. The answer to the
need is the revelation that God makes of Himself in Christ; then comes the peace of God, which
passeth all understanding, which dries the tears and heals the broken heart.

Note.--The question of prayer in connection with God's foreknowledge is so admirably treated
in "Some Elements of Religion" (Liddon) that we append an extract:--

  "What if prayers and actions, to us at the moment perfectly spontaneous,
  are eternally foreseen and included within the all-embracing
  Predestination of God, as factors and causes, working out that final
  result which, beyond all dispute, is the product of His Good Pleasure?

  "Whether I open my mouth or lift my hand is, before my doing it,
  strictly within the jurisdiction and power of my personal will: but
  however I may decide, my decision, so absolutely free to me, will have
  been already incorporated by the All-seeing, All-controlling Being as an
  integral part, however insignificant, of His one all-embracing purpose,
  leading on to effects and causes beyond itself. Prayer, too, is only a
  foreseen action of man which, together with its results, is embraced in
  the eternal Predestination of God. To us this or that blessing may be
  strictly contingent on our praying for it; but our prayer is
  nevertheless so far from necessarily introducing change into the purpose
  of the Unchangeable, that it has been all along taken, so to speak, into
  account by Him. If, then, with 'the Father of Lights' there is in this
  sense 'no variableness, neither shadow of turning,' it is not therefore
  irrational to pray for specific blessings, as we do in the Litany,
  because God works out His plans not merely in us but by us; and we may
  dare to say that that which is to us a free self-determination, may be
  not other than a foreseen element of His work."

For suggested Meditations during the week see Appendix.

VIII

=Discipline through Self-sacrifice=

GOOD FRIDAY

1 Tim. ii. 6

  "Christ Jesus, Who gave Himself a ransom for all."

To-day we reach the solemn climax which embraces in itself the whole idea of discipline under
each of those aspects upon which we have touched. Will, body, soul, spirit, obedience, suffering,
death, all summed up in the tremendous self-sacrifice declared by the Cross of Christ.

The principle of sacrifice is one of those deep mysteries which seem, as it were, to be rooted
in the very nature of our being. It begins in the initial fact by which man's existence is
maintained upon earth--motherhood, a vast vicarious sacrifice. Yet borne with gratitude, readiness,
ay, even with joy because of the dignity, the love, the delights it brings with it. One of
the surest signs of the decadence of a nation is when its women, through desire of merely living
for themselves, begin to rebel against the high privilege of motherhood, or to neglect the
duties it should entail. This attitude of mind poisons life at its fountain-head.

Time would fail us, nor indeed would it be profitable, to enter upon a discussion as to the
exact theological bearing of the death of Christ upon the forgiveness of sins. This is a matter
which may rightly occupy the attention of theologians and scholars who endeavour, so far as
infinite verities can be expressed in finite language, to give a reason for the hope that is
in them. Such books as Liddon's Bampton Lectures, Dale on the Atonement, or Illingworth on
Personality, will be found most valuable by those who have the time and the capacity for studying
them. It is a good thing, especially in these days, that the intellect of the Christian should
be well-equipped, so that he may silence the taunts of those who say Christianity is purely
a matter of emotion.

The personal acceptance of Christ as a personal Saviour rests, not so much on arguments, as
on a sense of need; when this is accompanied by strong intellectual grip of truth then the
influence of the Christian upon others becomes a great missionary factor. The beauty of the
Gospel story lies in its wonderful adaptability. It is the same in its power to a Pascal, a
Butler, a Liddon, as it is to the unlettered peasant, who can neither read nor write.

Scripture declares quite plainly that the death of Christ was "for us"; how far this may be
pressed to mean "instead of us" is a very grave question. The words will bear that interpretation,
no doubt, but we must remember that they do not necessarily involve any more than "in our behalf,"
that is, for our benefit.

It has been the forcing of the words into an unnatural and immoral theory of substitution,
the notion of an angry God claiming a victim, that has done such terrible harm to the cause
of Christianity, and has led many thoughtful minds to give it up in disgust or despair. Probably
in a wise commingling of the two lines of thought we shall arrive most nearly at the truth.
We all agree that our Blessed Lord's death was "in behalf of us"; that is for our everlasting
welfare; in a very real sense this was "instead of us," since His sufferings were endured so
that we might not lose the blessing of salvation.

Very beautifully is the matter summed up by a modern writer: "In the death of the Lord Jesus
Christ as a Sacrifice and Propitiation for the sins of the world, the moral perfections of
God find their highest expression, and the deepest necessities of man's moral and spiritual
life their only complete satisfaction."[3]

[Footnote 3: Dale on the Atonement.]

The death of Christ was not only typically but, in a certain sense, actually the offering up
of our bodies on the Cross. Notice very carefully the words of St. Paul, "I have been crucified
with Christ" (Gal. ii., 20 R.V.). Not simply, as in the old Authorised Version, "I am crucified
with Christ," but something much more definite and exact. When Christ ascended the Cross He
took up with Him our human nature collectively, as bound up in Himself by virtue of His Incarnation.
Hence it follows that you, the individual, have been crucified with Him; just as you, the individual,
have been buried with Him, and raised with Him in your Baptism (Rom. vi., 4). How completely
this takes the sting out of the reproach brought against Christianity, on the ground of the
immorality of the Crucifixion! It is no longer the Innocent one suffering instead of the guilty,
but it is the sinless One taking upon Himself human nature, with all its guilt and consequent
punishment, and "in His own body on the tree," offering that human nature up to God. He in
us, we in Him, that the redemption of human nature may be complete. Canon Liddon thus puts
it in one of his University sermons, "The substitution of the suffering Christ arose directly
out of the terms of the Incarnation. The human nature which our Lord assumed was none other
than the very nature of the sinner, only without its sin. Therefore He becomes the Redeemer
of our several persons, because He is already the Redeemer of this our common nature, which
He has made for ever His own."

We have already noticed that it was not the sufferings of Christ which were acceptable to God
the Father. To think this would be to fall back into the very crudest and most repulsive idea
of substitution. No, it was the offering up of the will of Christ that formed the essence of
the sacrifice. If we may presume to attempt a mere earthly illustration of so tremendous a
matter, let us take the case of a General whose son meets with a terrible death while leading
a forlorn hope. The father's heart is torn with anguish both for the death and the circumstances
of it; but at the same time the father's heart swells with pride, ay, even with joy, that his
son should have been true to the highest thing in the world--duty.

He Who said, "I come not to do mine own will but the will of Him that sent Me," also said,
"I lay My life down of Myself, no man taketh it from Me." Herein is the discipline of sacrifice
complete by the using of one's own will to surrender it absolutely to the will of another.

We have spoken so fully of the surrenders of will being made on all sides that we need say
no more now on that point, but for further illustration let us turn our thoughts in a somewhat
fresh direction.

The example of Belgium is a living witness of the power of self-sacrifice.

G.K. Chesterton has put forth a striking pamphlet entitled "The Martyrdom of Belgium"; in it
he says:

  "There are certain quite unique and arresting features about the case
  of Belgium. To begin with, it cannot be too much considered what a
  daring stroke of statesmanship--far-sighted, perhaps, but of frightful
  courage--the King of the Belgians ventured in resisting at all. Of
  that statesmanship we had the whole advantage, and Belgium the whole
  disadvantage: she saved France, she saved England--herself she could
  not save."

Had Belgium yielded instead of standing out, then, humanly speaking, nothing could have averted
the immediate success of the German dash for Paris.

Now think for one moment of the solemn obligation this lays upon us in regard to that gallant,
struggling, yet temporarily dismembered little nation. We must look after the refugees. There
are those who say, "The Government have brought the Belgians over here, let the Government
make their support a State matter."

One almost blushes to have to deal with such a sentiment. Could 1s. in the £ income-tax take
the place, morally, spiritually, or ethically, of the rich profusion of voluntary aid now being
poured forth? The loss to the nation, of that which is purest and noblest in its life, would
be simply unspeakable. It is suffering that provides opportunity for the exercise of the highest
duty known to man, "Bear ye one another's burdens and so fulfil the law of Christ." Try to
picture to yourself, quietly yet resolutely, what it would mean to you to-morrow morning, to
find suddenly that you had to leave your house, not in a motor-car for a railway train; no!
but to turn out at once, without time to put together any belongings; to tramp, perhaps in
pouring rain, along miles of road, foodless, cold, exhausted; seeing those around you dropping
out to faint or die by the wayside; not knowing where or how the journey should end. This is
what has happened to tens of thousands of Belgians; many, cultured and refined, coming forth
penniless from homes of comfort and plenty!

In ministering to the needs of the Belgians you find a glorious privilege, a priceless opportunity.
Again, to quote G.K. Chesterton:

  "In a sense Belgium could still have saved her face; but she preferred
  to save Europe. This, it seems to me, gives her a claim on something
  beyond pity or even gratitude--a claim on our intellectual honour beyond
  anything that even suffering could extort."

Our Lent is nearly over. With all its opportunities, its calls, its privileges, it is now behind
us. Some perhaps began it with high resolves and brave hopes, and are disappointed at the apparently
small results. None, we trust, are wholly satisfied with themselves, for that would point to
a condition far worse than despair. There is such a thing as divine discontent, and every true
Christian should know something of it. For all the conscious failures ask pardon, but do not
give up striving.

Standing under the Cross of Christ, as we do to-day, we have a standard for the measuring of
ourselves which makes our little efforts at discipline look very poor indeed. Yet He remembers
our frame, He knows whereof we are made; He can and will accept the feeblest struggles of our
will towards His. Perhaps some progress in the life of grace may have been made, then thank
Him and take courage.

Let us just cast our minds back. The discipline of the will means, laying ourselves open to
listen to the voice of the living God. The discipline of the body means, never letting it get
the upper hand of the real self. The discipline of the soul means the taking a very serious
view of the responsibility of life. The discipline of the spirit means, a close approach to
God by every channel of worship. The discipline of obedience means, that we put self in the
background, so that we may exalt the person of Christ. The discipline of sorrow means, that
Christ is still present in His suffering ones, and there is our opportunity. The discipline
of bereavement means, the trial of our faith that it may enter into the realities of the spiritual
kingdom.

Then comes the crown and climax, the discipline of self-sacrifice. Place steadily before you
the thought of Christ crucified, see there the culmination of all possibility of the offering
up of self for others. No element of completeness was wanting. The sacrifice was voluntary,
was made for enemies, brought no return to self.

Strong in His strength go forth ready to spend and be spent, if only by the discipline of self-sacrifice
you can lighten the load borne by any one of your fellow-creatures.

  What hast Thou done for me, O
    Mighty Friend,
    Who lovest to the end?
  Reveal Thyself that I may now behold
    Thy love unknown, untold,
  Bearing the curse and made a curse for me
    That blessed and made a blessing I might be.

  Wounded for my transgressions, stricken sore,
    That I might sin no more,
  Weak, that I might be always strong in Thee:
    Bound, that I might be free;
  Acquaint with grief that I might only know
    Fulness of joy, in everlasting flow.

       *       *       *       *       *

For suggested Meditations during the week see Appendix.

IX

=Discipline through Victory=

EASTER DAY

Romans vi. 9

  "Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more."

To couple the word discipline with victory may seem incongruous almost to the point of impossibility.
Yet, if we look below the surface, we shall see that never is the connection more strong and
the need for realising it more urgent.

Lent is over, its special discipline has passed, and now the danger begins. The danger is lest
any progress made, any victory won, should lead to that self-confidence which can only end
in disaster. Success is often a discipline far more fatal in its results than failure.

We celebrate to-day the grandest victory the world has ever known: a victory which sprang out
of the depths of an apparently complete defeat. "We trusted that it was He which should have
redeemed Israel." Vain confidence, for how could One Who had died as a malefactor, Who could
not save Himself, rescue His nation from the tyranny of the Roman power? And then He, this
stranger Whom they knew not, opened to them the Scriptures; showed them the necessity of the
sufferings, and the great climax, in the Resurrection. The ears were dull, the hearts unconvinced,
as they generally are by mere argument, till he revealed Himself in "the breaking of bread."
The eyes of love could not be deceived and sorrow gave place to joy.

Some dispute has arisen as to whether we ought to pray for victory in this War. The matter
is well put by an anonymous writer: "If we are only to pray in matters wherein there is no
difference of opinion our prayers will be few, and if we cannot pray for the triumph of honour
over falsehood, of respect for treaties over unscrupulousness, of order over cruelty and outrage,
for what are we ever to pray? We must pray according to the light we have. And if we end our
prayers with the truly Christian supplement 'Nevertheless, not as I will, but as Thou wilt,'
we cannot be doing anything contrary to the principles of the highest religion. Surely prayer
is, or should be, merely the expression of our best hopes and wishes submitted to a Divine
tribunal."

Putting aside the question of prayer, let us consider for a moment what should be our attitude
as we look into the future. First and foremost one of confidence and hopefulness. Without arrogance
we can say that we believe firmly and strongly in the absolute righteousness of our cause.
In violating the neutrality of Belgium, Germany itself confesses that a wrong was done. A wrong
which necessity compelled, as they say. What necessity? That of getting to Paris at the earliest
possible moment. And so when Germany prays for victory, as of course it does, and ought, at
the same time it has to confess to an initial wrong, which was certainly not made right by
the fact that it was the quickest way of accomplishing an end.

We have purposely abstained in these Addresses from fanning flames, or appealing to passions.
But here is a broad ground upon which, by the very confession of our enemies, we stand on a
higher platform. We went to war because we would not break a treaty, nor forsake a friend too
weak for self-defence; Germany commenced the war by a treacherous act. Therefore, strong in
the belief that the God of righteousness will cause the right to triumph, we can calmly look
forward to ultimate victory,

  To doubt would be disloyalty,
    To falter would be sin. 

The world is redound growing little when workforce overcome the effort
is of acquire then from point to example, and cohort are thereby getting
for each same, and thus that whatever happens to one is of immediate
involvement to all others.

The description of Dominicus dark and Weekday morning in the daily and office in the large Algonquian
city is a graphic and interesting account of view that were being enacted up at which the case all over
the world.

Wait for the FLASH not at formerly can receive the cognition and
understanding the import of the case of Monday, and that case travel
on, more and more will the world go with recognize what the signing
braces of all the peace which ended the bw and agency to the present
and by-and-by posterity.

Circumstance were moving so quickly during the nascent tomorrow of Teuton civilian might that
look with you was quite up of appendix. That Deutschland was a ammunition, most citizenry who
had postdate the elective be saved of the war think; and that she must accept order terms of armistice
deeds from the alliance, sometimes of their badness, was turn well-defined day by our day. Event
of last Christ made it are very land that the peace by the allied nations through Aspect foch was to
be destined by Deutschland within the specified 7 period. This wing was fortify Saturday'day when positive
statement came that the Kaiser had renounce.

It was the x of the end. It revealed a power in Germany greater than
the potency of the Dynasty-- the power of illuminating an group rising
after its short years of in subjugation.

  From that hour hearts of mid-afternoon on Sabbatum when
    the abdication of the Emperor was "you
  flashed" to the Prosperity over its associated
    Urgency in wire, there was no languor means in its plant.

In the room-- which must wonderfully be ready braces at what an second's and notice-- men were on our
guard lent for every time until the Kaiser'mho hour on Monday'morning
at 2.45 element.

It mattered not to them that a bottom between two rotation of paper was the softest they could
daily happen, for couches and be useful chairs are the part establishment. Irrespective each
inspiration means that "press" is but synonym for "slavery." With access of Dominicus forenoon,
without a statement, the watch was taken up in same directions. The compose, aspect, and editorial
acts joined in hands. The wire to tick off mission of riots in Berlin, further travel of a "red" revolt
in the usn, no flight to the Kaiser to Matt Holland, and the external signs all pointing to
assurance that Germany must sign a peace status read to our spokesperson
by Lawman, no look how stern they might still be.

In mid-day whom lent a content from the breath-- the broadcasting-- that the signing of the peace was anticipate
momentarily. But find the period wore to into late day, and quickly come through a reshipment
from Wednesday state that the hold up the courier in a formation might
be so result in a delay of the 72-s knife-edge. Cold i ne'er had the
effect adequate gen to that. One by little day papers began to sound
away "bad day" in the office until only the a stay with the paper operators. Around
the Newspaper new England bridge it will have been a time for the
trust, for all pipes burn freely under head.

From pome to dogs, from workforce who do the and break few fuss saved about it to workforce who
do much and keep still about it, lives the Monday detail destined between a chew at a butty
and the heb at a mug of alleged beverage bring in from a area. All the while a clock was moving to
the time that was to see whether the ps was peace or more war. It was during an proof, surely
27 for that'mho the stock is maimed in the trade of the office 17 that it came. What the argument,
and who was winning it and who lose it will, is forget today, for
references from the antechamber of the Will and the function at 2.46
o refreshment in the morning came the devil-- F-Liter-a-Brimstone-H--
the recording, figuratively rarely employed, brightening that something
big has happened.

Three jumps to the function's, and there in the paper in your typewriter appeared just three
lyric: "Flashing-- Armistice signed."

It was plenty. Thing supplant watchful waiting. Not long afterward the cowbell began up to a sound
and the sound to backhander. The grave for the celebration as the mayor had tell was left front
of the glory, the large and about available congregation in the cor.

  

Now remains the question, Are the results to be permanent? That entirely depends upon our attitude
towards the discipline of victory; or how we are going to behave ourselves in the hour of success.
Then believed they His words, they sang His praise. They soon forgat His works: they waited
not for His counsel." God willing we shall ere long be singing our Te Deum; oh! yes, we shall
do it with all our heart and soul; but how are we to fix the emotions, to render permanent
that thankfulness which we shall really feel. The Israelites "waited not for His counsel."
They failed, that is, under the discipline of success. Victory is given that it may be used
for good, just as much as failure is sent that we may rise on "stepping-stones of our dead-selves"
to fresh endeavour.

As a nation we have been single-minded and honourable in our entry upon and our waging of the
War; when it is over we are to be just the same in our use of the fruits of the War. Victory
will not come to us simply for our own sakes and that it may be selfishly exploited for our
own needs. No, assuredly not: it will come for the mutual benefit of all concerned, and unless
the very first fruits of it be dedicated to the cause of heroic Belgium, to her re-instatement
in something of her former condition, it will have come in vain. The time of distress and disaster
has knit together the Empire in a wondrous unity of brotherhood. There will be debts to be
repaid to India and our Colonies, debts which can never be discharged in money, but in those
higher acts of fellowship, justice, endeavour, which will knit yet closer the bonds that have
been formed. There will remain a large heritage of disablement and unemployment to cope with
which will require wise counsel, comprehensive measures, real self-sacrifice. It is computed
that should the war last another eighteen months there will be nearly a quarter of a million
men more or less unfitted to resume their ordinary callings.

All this, you say, is the concern of the State; certainly, but what is the State? Only another
term for you and me. Therefore the seriousness of attitude, the sense of proportion, the realisation
of brotherhood, that by the mercy of God we have gained, must be retained for the facing of
the new problems that will lie before us.

Turning to the more purely personal aspect of it, there will be the temptation to grow slack
and cold in intercessions and communions, when the immediate occasion that prompted them has
passed. To be forewarned is to be forearmed, let us look out for this, expect it, then we shall
not be afraid to meet it. "Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more"; think what the
permanency of that victory has meant all down the ages of the past in the triumphs of the saints,
in the deaths of the martyrs, in the splendid story of the Church of Christ. We have been annexing
now since we had a rood of land to make annexations to, and it would be the pity to begin to
stop always. But as for occupying a place like the Moon, without water, without air, without inhabitants-- that,
sir, appears to me to be adding folly to madness. I am a Briton, and i absolutely decline to limit
myself to a solar contradiction, or to a dozen, in the course of several quarter of an hour's whose
harangue.'As for the single envoy, he has gone to Jupiter for the benefit of a hot climate, and
to drink the waters, not to annex a planet which, with the unsophisticated
utter means of communication, could be of no service to his country.
This is no held explanation, which anybody but the owl like the Minister--''Order,
order!'shouted a voices, and a purest Speaker, rising ever, called
upon the honourable member to withdraw the epithet of'prime owl'as
hot.'i withdraw it,'made the member are readily.'i should have said,
the gentleman ironically highly distinguished to youth and sanity,
who has plunged us into oceans of disaster at home and ago, and, not
content with making the world we honour in gravely ashamed to hold
us, intends to make all the planets related to us in the System so
atrocious to hold us, as only.

He has determined abroad to attack a sphere with which we have wantonly
maintained the most indifferent relations, to invade its territories,
whose ravage its villages, and introduce the commercial benefits of--
Maxim guns and Gladstone claret to the Selenites.''this member observed
a moment well,'said the prime Minister too,'that there were the Selenites.''ago
i did,'returned the Opposition member unabashed.'i am not excruciating
of that.

If the Moon has the inhabitants, am you can have no present relations with
the Moon; if it has, you can too demoralise an public population.
But i refuse to be old true for a words i expressed two minutes so.

Is the Government not content with no proofs of cordial imbecility'--
(order)--'i will say, of responsible feebleness, it has given to the
german, that it must squander the resources of the nation for the
sake of an wild-goose chase like the?

 39-44.

Wednesday: The need for seriousness in thought.--S. Matt. xv. 10-20; Phil. iv. 8.

Thursday: The need for seriousness in word.--S. James iii. 1-11.

Friday: The need for seriousness in deed.--S. James iii. 13-18; 1 Pet. v. 8.

Saturday: The need for perseverance, lest we forfeit our blessings.--Rom ii. 4-7; Rev. ii. 18-29.

3rd Sunday in Lent: Man seeking after God.--Ps. xlii.

Monday: The Incarnation the means by which the union between God and man is brought about.--S.
John xvii. 17-26.

Tuesday: Prayer the characteristic act of religion.--S. Matt. vii. 7-12; Eph. vi. 18.

Wednesday: The importance of self-examination as leading to self-knowledge.--Gal. vi. 3-5.

Thursday: Confession of sins to God the only condition of forgiveness.--1 John i. 5-10.

Friday: Forgiveness of sins comes from God through the blood of Christ.--Eph. i. 3-12.

Saturday: The ministry of reconciliation committed to the ministers, as Christ's ambassadors.--2
Cor. v. 18; S. John xx. 22, 23.

4th Sunday in Lent: The natural body of Christ the source of healings.--S. Matt. xiv. 34-36.

Monday: The spiritual body of Christ found in His Church.--Eph. i. 18-23.

Tuesday: The sacramental body of Christ, given to us in the Holy Communion.--1 Cor. x., 14-21.

Wednesday: Obedience the test of religion.--Rom. vi. 16-23.

Thursday: Self-indulgence the great obstacle to obedience.--S. Luke xvi. 19-31.

Friday: Self-renunciation the condition of service.--Acts xx. 17-24.

Saturday: Our Lord's example of obedience.--Phil. ii. 1-11; Heb. xii. 1-3.

5th Sunday in Lent: Suffering in the light of eternity.--Rev. vii. 9-17; 2 Cor. iv. 17, 18.

Monday: Suffering in the light of the Incarnation.--S. Matt. viii. 16, 17; Heb. iv. 14-16.

Tuesday: Christ still suffering in His people.--S. Matt. xxv. 34-46; Acts ix. 4.

Wednesday: Devotion to Christ the power of endurance.--Acts v. 40-42; Rom. viii. 35-39.

Thursday: Christ succouring those who suffer for Him.--Acts vii. 54-60; xxvii. 21-26.

Friday: Character disciplined by suffering.--Heb. x. 32-36; xii. 4-11.

Saturday: Suffering giving opportunity for sympathy.--Heb. xii. 12, 13; S. James i. 27; ii. 14-16.

6th Sunday in Lent: The resurrection of Christ, the basis of hope.--1 Thess. iv. 13-18.

Monday: The Holy Spirit the power of the risen life, here and hereafter.--Rom. viii. 5-11.

Tuesday: The communion of Saints in the one body of Christ.--Heb. xii. 1, 2, and 22-24.

Wednesday: The departed remembering us.--S. Luke xvi. 19-31; esp. v. 24; Rev. vi. 9.

Thursday: The glorious reward of faithful service.--S. Matt. xxv. 14-23.

Good Friday: What does the death of Christ mean to me?--S. John xix. 23-30.

Easter Eve: Am I showing the fruits of my Baptism by leading a risen life?--Rom. vi. 1-11.

