{38}Among the many heads that have played upon the passions of the public, this is one [takes
the head'] that did cut a capital figure in that way. This is the head of Jonas, or the card-playing
conjuring Jew. He could make matadores with a snap of his fingers, command the four aces with
a whistle, and get odd tricks. But there is a great many people in London, besides this man,
famous for playing odd tricks, and yet no conjurers neither. This man would have made a great
figure in the law, as he is so dexterous a conveyancer. But the law is a profession that does
not want any jugglers. Nor do we need any longer to load our heads with the weight of learning,
or pore {39} for years over arts and sciences, when a few months' practice with these pasteboard
pages [takes the cards] can make any man's fortune, without his understanding a single letter
of the alphabet, provided he can but slip the cards, snap his fingers, and utter the unintelligible
jargon of 'presto, passa, largo, mento, cocolorum, yaw' like this Jonas. The moment he comes
into company, and takes up a pack of cards, he begins, "I am no common slight-of hand man;
the common slight-of-hand men, they turn up the things up their sleeves, and make you believe
their fingers deceive your eyes. Now, sir, you shall draw one card, two cards, three cards,
four cards, five cards, half a dozen cards; you look at the card at this side, you look at
the card at that side, and I say blow the blast; the blast is blown, the card is flown, yaw,
yaw: and now, sir, I will do it once more over again, to see whether my fingers can once more
deceive your eyes. I'll give any man ten thousand pounds if he do the like. But this conjurer,
at length discovering that most practitioners on cards, now-a-days, know as many tricks as
himself, {40}and finding his slights of hand turned to little or no account, now practises
on notes of hand by discount, and is to be found every morning at twelve in Duke's-place, up
to his knuckles in dirt, and at two at the Bank coffee-house, up to his elbows in money, where
these locusts of society, over a dish of coffee and the book of interest, supply the temporary
wants of necessitous men, and are sure to out-wit 'em, had they even the cunning of a... Fox!

Here is the head of another Fashionable Foreigner [shews the head], a very simple machine;
for he goes upon one spring, self-interest. This head may be compared to a disoblezeance; for
there is but one seat in it, and that is not the seat {41}of understanding: yet it is wonderful
how much more rapidly this will move in the high road of preferment than one of your thinking,
feeling, complex, English heads, in which honour, integrity, and reason, make such a pother,
that no step can be taken without consulting them. This head, if I may be allowed to speak
with an Irish accent, was a long time boasting of his feats: but the last fète he attempted
proved his defeat; for, in springing too high, he got such a fall as would disgrace an Englishman
for ever, and which none but a foreigner's head could recover.

Is it not a pity that foreigners should be admitted familiarly into the houses of the great,
while Englishmen, of real merit, shall be thrust from their doors with contempt? An instance
of which happened in the following picture--[The picture brought, and he goes before it.]

{42}Here is an Opera Dancer, or Singer, maintained by us in all the luxury of extravagance;
and in the back ground a maimed soldier and sailor, who were asking alms, and thrown down by
the insolence of the opera singer's chairman; yet the sailor lost his arm with the gallant
Captain Pierson, and the soldier left his leg on the plains of Minden. Instead of paying a
guinea to see a man stand on one leg--would it not be better employed were it given to a man
who had but one leg to stand on? But, while these dear creatures condescend to come over here,
to sing to us for {43}the trifling sum of fifteen hundred or two thousand guineas yearly, in
return for such their condescension, we cannot do too much for them, and that is the reason
why we do so little for our own people. This is the way we reward those who only bring folly
into the country, and the other is the way, and the only way, with which we reward our deliverers.
[The picture taken off.] Among the number of exotics, calculated for this evening's entertainment,
the head of an opera composer, or burletta projector, should have been exhibited, could I have
been lucky enough to hit upon any droll visage for that exhibition: but, after many experiments,
I was convinced that no head for that representation could be so truly ridiculous as my own,
if this assembly do me the honour to accept it. [Takes up the music-frame and book.]

Suppose me, for once, a burletta projector, Who attempts a mock musical scrap of a lecture.
Suppose this thing a harpsichord or a spinnet; We must suppose so, else there's nothing in
it; And thus I begin, tho' a stranger to graces. Those deficiencies must be supplied by grimaces,
And the want of wit made up by making of faces.

{44}[Changes wigs and sits down.] Come, Carro, come, attend affetuoso, English be dumb, your
language is but so so;

     Adagio is piano, allegro must be forte,
     Go wash my neck and sleeves, because this shirt is dirty
     Mon charmant, prenez guarda,
     Mind what your signior begs,
     Ven you wash, don't scrub so harda,
     You may rub my shirt to rags.
     Vile you make the water hotter--
     Uno solo I compose.
     Put in the pot the nice sheep's trotter,
     And de little petty toes;
     De petty toes are little feet,
     De little feet not big,
     Great feet belong to de grunting hog,
     De petty toes to de little pig.
     Come, daughter dear, carissima anima mea,
     Go boil the kittle, make me some green tea a.
     Ma bella dolce sogno,
     Vid de tea, cream, and sugar bono,
     And a little slice
     Of bread and butter nice.
     A bravo bread, and butter
     Bravissimo-----------imo.

END OF PART II.

PART III.

[Discovers two ladies on the table.] {45}In spite of all the sneers, prints, and paragraphs,
that have been published to render the ladies' headdresses ridiculous, sure, when fancy prompts
a fine woman to lead the fashion, how can any man be so Hottentotish as to find fault with
it? I hope here to be acquitted from any design of rendering the ladies ridiculous; all I aim
at is to amuse. Here is a rich dressed lady without elegance.--Here is an elegant dressed lady
without riches; for riches can no more give grace than they can beget understanding. A multiplicity
of ornaments may load the wearer, but can never distinguish the gentlewoman. [Gives off the
delicate lady.] This is a representation of those misled ladies whose families having gained
great fortunes by trade, begin to be ashamed of the industry of their ancestors, {46}and turn
up their nose at every thing mechanical, and call it wulgar. They are continually thrusting
themselves among the nobility, to have it said they keep quality company, and for that empty
qualification expose themselves to all the tortures of ill treatment; because it is a frolic
for persons of rank to mortify such their imitators. This is vanity without honour, and dignity
at second-hand, and shews that ladies may so far entangle the line of beauty, by not having
it properly unwound for them, till they are lost in a labyrinth of fashionable intricacies.
[Gives the head off. Takes the head of Cleopatra.]

Here is a real antique; this is the head of that famous demirep of antiquity, called Cleopatra,
{47}This is the way the ladies of antiquity used to dress their heads in a morning. [Gives
the head off.] And this is the way the ladies at present dress their heads in a morning. [Takes
the head.] A lady in this dress seems hooded like a hawk, with a blister on each cheek for
the tooth-ach. One would imagine this fashion had been invented by some surly duenna, or ill-natured
guardian, on purpose to prevent ladies turning to one side or the other; and that may be the
reason why now every young lady chooses to look forward. As the world is round, every thing
turns round along with it; no wonder there should be such revolutions in ladies' head-dresses.
This was in fashion two or three years past; this is the fashion of last year [takes a head
up]; and this the morning headdress [takes the head] of this present anno domini. These are
the winkers, and these are the blinkers. But, as the foibles of the ladies ought to be treated
with the utmost delicacy, all we can say of these three heads, thus hoodwinked, is, that they
are emblems of the three graces, who, thus muffled, have a mind to play at blindman's buff
together. [Gives the heads off.]

{48}We shall now exhibit the head of An Old Maid. [Takes the head.] This is called antiquated
virginity; it is a period when elderly unmarried ladies are supposed to be bearing apes about
in leading-strings, as a punishment, because, when those elderly unmarried ladies were young
and beautiful, they made monkies of mankind. Old maids are supposed to be ill-natured and crabbed,
as wine kept too long on the lees will turn to vinegar.

{49}Not to be partial to either sex [takes the head up], as a companion to the Old Maid, here
is the head of An Old Bachelor. These old bachelors are mere bullies; they are perpetually
abusing matrimony, without ever daring to accept of the challenge. When they are in company
they are ever exclaiming against hen-pecked husbands, saying, if they were married, their wives
should never go any where without asking their lords and masters' leave; and if they were married,
the children should never cry, nor the servants commit a fault: they'd set the house to rights;
they would do every thing. But the lion-like talkers abroad are mere baa-lambs at home, being
generally dupes and slaves to some termagant mistress, against whose imperiousness they dare
not open their lips, {50}but are frightened even if she frowns. Old bachelors, in this, resemble
your pretenders to atheism, who make a mock in public of what in private they tremble at and
fall down to. When they become superannuated, they set up for suitors, they ogle through spectacles,
and sing love songs to ladies with catarrhs by way of symphonies, and they address a young
lady with, "Come, my dear, I'll put on my spectacles and pin your handkerchief for you; I'll
sing you a love song; 'How can you, lovely Nancy!'" &c. [Laughs aloud.] How droll to hear the
dotards aping youth, And talk of love's delights without a tooth! [Gives the head off.]

{51}It is something odd that ladies shall have their charms all abroad in this manner [takes
the head], and the very next moment this shall come souse over their heads, like an extinguisher.
[Pulls the calash over.] This is a hood in high taste at the upper end of the town; and this
[takes the head] a hood in high taste at the lower end of the town. Not more different are
these two heads in their dresses than they are in their manner of conversation: this makes
use of a delicate dialect, it being thought polite pronunciation to say instead of cannot,
ca'ant; must not ma'ant; shall not, sha'ant, This clipping of letters would be extremely detrimental
to the current coin of conversation, did not these good dames make ample amends by adding supernumerary
syllables when they talk of break-fastes, and toastesses, and running their heads against the
postasses to avoid the wild beastesses. These female orators, brought up at the bar of Billingsgate,
have a peculiar way of expressing themselves, which, however indelicate it may seem to more
civilized ears, is exactly conformable to the way of ancient oratory. The difference between
ancient and modern oratory consists in saying something or nothing to the purpose. Some people
talk without saying any thing; some people {52}don't care what they say; some married men would
be glad to have nothing to say to their wives; and some husbands would be full as glad if their
wives had not any thing to say to them. [ Gives the head off.] Ancient oratory is the gift
of just persuasion; modern oratory the knack of putting words, not things, together; for speech-makers
now are estimated, not by the merit, but by the length of their harangues; they are minuted
as we do galloping horses, and their goodness rated according as they hold out against time.
For example, a gentleman lately coming into a coffee-house, and expressing himself highly pleased
with some debates which he had just then heard, one of his acquaintance begged the favour that
he would tell the company what the debates were about.

"About, Sir!--Yes, Sir.--About!--what were they debating about? Why they were about five hours
long." "But what did they say, Sir?" "What did they say, Sir? Why one man said every thing;
he was up two hours, three quarters, nineteen seconds, and five eighths, by my watch, which
is the best stop-watch in England; so, if I don't know what he said, who should? for I had
my eye upon my watch all the time he was speaking." "Which side was he of?" "Why {53}he was
of my side, I stood close by him all the time."

Here are the busts of two ancient laughing and crying Philosophers, or orators. [Takes the
two heads up.] These in their life-time were heads, of two powerful factions, called the Groaners
and the Grinners. (Holds one head in each hand.) This Don Dismal's faction, is a representation
of that discontented part of mankind who are always railing at the times, and the world, and
the people of the world: This is a good-natured fellow, that made the best of every thing:
and this Don Dismal would attack his brother--"Oh, brother! brother! brother! what will this
world come to?" "The same place it set out from this day twelve-month." "When will the nation's
debt be paid {54}off?" "Will you pass your word for it?" "These are very slippery times--very
slippery times." "They are always so in frosty weather." "What's become of our liberty?--Where
shall we find liberty?" "In Ireland, to be sure." "I can't bear to see such times." "Shut your
eyes then." [ Gives the heads off.]

It may seem strange to those spectators [takes the head] who are unacquainted with the reasons
that induce ladies to appear in such caricatures, how that delicate sex can walk under the
weight of such enormous head-coverings; but what will not English hearts endure for the good
of their country? And it's all for the good of their country the ladies wear such appearances;
for, while mankind are such enemies to Old England as to run wool to France, our ladies, by
making use of wool as part of their head-dresses [lets down the tail and takes out the wool],
keep it at home, and encourage the woollen manufactory. [Takes off the head.]

But, as all our fashions descend to our inferiors, a servant maid, in the Peak of Derbyshire,
having purchased an old tête from a puppet-show woman, and being at a loss for some of this
wool to stuff out the curls with, fancied a whisp of hay might {55}do. [Takes the head.] Here
is the servant maid, with her new-purchased finery; and here is her new-fashioned stuffing.
But, before she had finished at her garret dressing-table, a ring at the door called her down
stairs to receive a letter from the postboy; turning back to go into the house again, the postboy's
horse, being hungry, laid hold of the head-dress by way of forage. Never may the fair sex meet
with a worse misfortune; but may the ladies, always hereafter, preserve their heads in good
order. Amen.

Horace, in describing a fine woman, makes use of two Latin words, which are, simplex munditiis.
Now these two words cannot be properly translated; {56}their best interpretation is that of
a young Female Quaker. [Takes the head.] Such is the effect of native neatness. Here is no
bundle of hair to set her off, no jewels to adorn her, nor artificial complexion. Yet there
is a certain odium which satire has dared to charge our English ladies with, which is, plastering
the features with whitewash, or rubbing rouge or red upon their faces. [Gives the head off.]
Women of the town may lay on red, because, like pirates, the dexterity of their profession
consists in their engaging under false colours; but, for the delicate, the inculpable part
of the sex, to vermilion their faces, seems as if ladies would fish for lovers as men bait
for mackerel, by hanging something red upon the hook; or that they imagined men to be of the
bull or turkey-cock kind, that would fly at any thing scarlet. [Takes the head off.] But such
practitioners should remember that their faces are the works of their Creator.--If bad, how
dare they mend it? If good, why mend it? Are they ashamed of his work, and proud of their own?
If any such there are, let 'em lay by the art, and blush not to appear that which he blushes
not to have made them. If any lady should be offended with the lecturer's daring to take such
liberties with her sex, by {57}way of atonement for that part of my behaviour which may appear
culpable, I humbly beg leave to offer a nostrum, or recipe, to preserve the ladies' faces in
perpetual bloom, and defend beauty from all assaults of time; and I dare venture to affirm,
not all the paints, pomatums, or washes, can be of so much service to make the ladies look
lovely as the application of this. [Shews the girdle of good temper.]

Let but the ladies wear this noble order, and they never will be angry with me; this is the
grand secret of attraction; this is the Girdle op Venus, which Juno borrowed to make herself
appear {58}lovely to her husband Jupiter, and what is here humbly recommended to all married
folks of every denomination; and to them I appeal, whether husband or wife, wife or husband,
do not alternately wish each other would wear this girdle? But here lies the mistake; while
the husband begs his wife, the wife insists upon the husband's putting it on; in the contention
the girdle drops down between them, and neither of them will condescend to stoop first to take
it up. [Lays down the girdle.]. Bear and forbear, give and forgive, are the four chariot-wheels
that carry Love to Heaven: Peace, Lowliness, Fervency, and Taste, are the four radiant horses
that draw it. Many people have been all their life-time making this chariot, without ever being
able to put one wheel to it. Their horses have most of them got the springhalt, and that is
the reason why married people now a-days walk a-foot to the Elysian fields. Many a couple,
who live in splendor, think they keep the only carriage that can convey them to happiness;
but their vehicle is too often the postcoach of ruin; the horses, that draw it are Vanity,
Insolence, Luxury, and Credit; the footmen who ride behind it are Pride, Lust, Tyranny, and
Oppression; the servants out of livery, that wait at table, {59}are Folly and Wantonness; them
Sickness and Death take away. Were ladies once to see themselves in an ill temper, I question
if ever again they would choose to appear in such a character.

