He had certainly made a failure of his life so far. He did acknowledge to himself that there
was something nobler in these classic shades than in the ore-laden dirt of an Australian gold-gully.
He knew as much of the world as that. He had not hitherto chosen the better part, and now something
of regret, even as to Folking,--poor old Folking,--came upon him. He was, as it were, being
kicked out and repudiated by his own family as worthless. And what was he to do about Julia
Babington? After that scene in the linen-closet, he could not leave his country without a word
either to Julia or to aunt Polly. But the idea of Julia was doubly distasteful to him since
that lovely vision of young female simplicity had shone upon him from the corner of Mrs. Bolton's
drawing-room. Romping with the Babington girls was all very well; but if he could only feel
the tips of that girl's fingers come within the grasp of his hand! Then he thought that it
would lend a fine romance to his life if he could resolve to come back, when he should be laden
with gold, and make Hester Bolton his wife. It should be his romance, and he swore that he
would cling to it.

He turned back, and came down to dinner five minutes after the time. At ten minutes before
dinner-time Mr. Bolton heard that he was gone out and was offended,--thinking it quite possible
that he would not return at all. What might not be expected from a young man who could so easily
abandon his inheritance! But he was there, only five minutes after the time, and the dinner
was eaten almost in silence. In the evening there was tea, and the coldest shivering attempt
at conversation for half an hour, during which he could still at moments catch the glance of
Hester's eyes, and see the moving curve of her lips. Then there was a reading of the Bible,
and prayer, and before ten he was in his bed-room.

On the next morning as he took his departure, Mr. Bolton said a word intended to be gracious.
'I hope you may succeed in your enterprise, Mr. Caldigate.'

'Why should I not as well as another?' said John, cheerily.

'If you are steady, sober, industrious, self-denying and honest, you probably will,' replied
the banker.

'To promise all that would be to promise too much,' said John. 'But I mean to make an effort.'

Then at that moment he made one effort which was successful. For an instant he held Hester's
fingers within his hand.

Chapter III

Daniel Caldigate

That piece of business was done. It was one of the disagreeable things which he had had to
do before he could get away to the gold-diggings, and it was done. Now he had to say farewell
to his father, and that would be a harder task. As the moment was coming in which he must bid
adieu to his father, perhaps for ever, and bid adieu to the old place which, though he despised
it, he still loved, his heart was heavy within him. He felt sure that his father had no special
regard for him;--in which he was, of course, altogether wrong, and the old man was equally
wrong in supposing that his son was unnaturally deficient in filial affection. But they had
never known each other, and were so different that neither had understood the other. The son,
however, was ready to confess to himself that the chief fault had been with himself. It was
natural, he thought, that a father's regard should be deadened by such conduct as his had been,
and natural that an old man should not believe in the quick repentance and improvement of a
young one.

He hired a gig and drove himself over from Cambridge to Folking. As he got near to the place,
and passed along the dikes, and looked to the right and left down the droves, and trotted at
last over the Folking bridge across the Middle Wash, the country did not seem to him to be
so unattractive as of yore; and when he recognised the faces of the neighbours, when one of
the tenants spoke to him kindly, and the girls dropped a curtsey as he passed, certain soft
regrets began to crop up in his mind. After all, there is a comfort in the feeling of property--not
simply its money comfort, but in the stability and reputation of a recognised home. Six months
ago there had seemed to him to be something ridiculous in the idea of a permanent connection
between the names of Caldigate and Folking. It was absurd that, with so wild and beautiful
a world around him, he should be called upon to live in a washy fen because his father and
grandfather had been unfortunate enough to do so. And then, at that time, all sympathy with
bricks and mortar, any affection for special trees or well-known home-haunts, was absurd in
his eyes. And as his father had been harsh to him, and did not like him, would it not be better
that they should be far apart? It was thus that he had reasoned. But now all that was changed.
An unwonted tenderness had come upon his spirit. The very sallows by the brook seemed to appeal
to him. As he saw the house chimneys through the trees, he remembered that they had carried
smoke from the hearths of many generations of Caldigates. He remembered, too, that his father
would soon be old, and would be alone. It seemed to himself that his very mind and spirit were
altered.

But all that was too late. He had agreed to the terms proposed; and even were he now to repudiate
them, what could he do with Davis, and how could he live for the present? Not for a moment
did he entertain such an idea, but he had lost that alacrity of spirit which had been his when
he first found the way out of his difficulties.

His father did not come forth to meet him. He went in across the hall and through the library,
into a little closet beyond, in which Mr. Caldigate was wont to sit. 'Well, John,' said the
old man, 'how have you and Mr. Bolton got on together?'

There seemed to be something terribly cold in this. It might be better that they should part,--better
even, though the parting should be for ever. It might be right;--nay, he knew that it was right
that he should be thrust out of the inheritance. He had spent money that was not his own, and,
of course, he must pay the debt. But that his father should sit there in his chair on his entrance,
not even rising to greet him, and should refer at once to Mr. Bolton and that business arrangement,
as though that, and that alone, need now be discussed, did seem to him to be almost cruel.
Of all that his father had suffered in constraining himself to this conduct, he understood
nothing. 'Mr. Bolton made himself very plain, sir.'

'He would be sure to do so. He is a man of business and intelligent. But as to the terms proposed,
were they what you had expected?'

'Quite as good as I had expected.'

'Whether good or bad, of course you will understand that I have had nothing to do with them.
The matter has been referred to two gentlemen conversant with such subjects; and, after due
inquiry, they told Mr. Bolton what was the money value of your rights. It is a question to
be settled as easily as the price of a ton of coals or a joint of beef. But you must understand
that I have not interfered.'

'I am quite aware of that, sir.'

'As for the money, something over a third of it is in my own hands. I have not been extravagant
myself, and have saved so much. The remainder will come out of Mr. Bolton's bank, and will
be lent on mortgage. I certainly shall not have cause for extravagance now, living here alone;
and shall endeavour to free the estate from the burden by degrees. When I die, it will, in
accordance with my present purpose, go to your cousin George.' As this was said, John thought
he perceived something like a quiver in his father's voice, which, up to that point, had been
hard, clear, and unshaken. 'As to that, however, I do not intend to pledge myself,' he continued.
'The estate will now be my own, subject to the claim from Messrs. Bolton's bank. I don't know
that there is anything else to be said.'

'Not about business, sir.'

'And it is business, I suppose, that has brought you here,--and to Cambridge. I do not know
what little things you have of your own in the house.'

'Not much, sir.'

'If there be anything that you wish to take, take it. But with you now, I suppose, money is
the only possession that has any value.'

'I should like to have the small portrait of you,--the miniature.'

'The miniature of me,' said the father, almost scoffingly, looking up at his son's face, suspiciously.
And yet, though he would not show it, he was touched. Only if this were a ruse on the part
of the young man, a mock sentiment, a little got-up theatrical pretence,--then,--then how disgraced
he would be in his own estimation at having been moved by such mockery!

The son stood square before his father, disdaining any attempt to evince a supplicating tenderness
either by his voice or by his features. 'But, perhaps, you have a special value for it,' he said.

'No, indeed. It is others, not oneself, that ought to have such trifles,--that is, if they
are of value at all.'

'There is none but myself that can care much for it.'

'There is no one to care at all. No one else that is,' he added, wishing to avoid any further
declaration. 'Take that or anything else you want in the house. There will be things left,
I suppose,--clothes and books and suchlike.'

'Hardly anything, sir. Going so far, I had better give them away. A few books I shall take.'
Then the conversation was over; and in a few minutes John Caldigate found himself roaming alone
about the place.

It was so probable that he might never see it again! Indeed it seemed to him now that were
he to return to England with a fortune made, he would hardly come to Folking. Years and years
must roll by before that could be done. If he could only come back to Cambridge and fetch that
wife away with him, then he thought it would be better for him to live far from England, whether
he were rich or whether he were poor. It was quite evident that his father's heart was turned
from him altogether. Of course he had himself to blame,--himself only; but still it was strange
to him that a father should feel no tenderness at parting with an only son. While he had been
in the room he had constrained himself manfully; not a drop of moisture had glittered in his
eye; not a tone of feeling had thrilled in his voice; his features had never failed him. There
had always been that look of audacity on his brow joined to a certain manliness of good-humour
in his mouth, as though he had been thoroughly master of himself and the situation. But now,
as he pushed his hat from off his forehead, he rubbed his hand across his eyes to dash away
the tears. He felt almost inclined to rush back to the house and fall on his knees before his
father, and kiss the old man's hands, and beg the old man's blessing. But though he was potent
for much he was not potent for that. Such expression of tenderness would have been true; but
he knew that he would so break down in the attempt as to make it seem to be false.

He got out upon Twopenny Drove and passed over the ferry, meaning to walk across the farm and
so out on to the Causeway, and round home by the bridge. But on the other side of the Wash
he encountered Mr. Ralph Holt, the occupier of Twopenny farm, whose father also and grandfather
had lived upon the same acres. 'And so thou be'est going away from us, Mr. John,' said the
farmer, with real tenderness, almost with solemnity, in his voice, although there was at the
same time something ridiculous in the far-fetched sadness of his tone and gait.

'Yes, indeed, Holt, I want to travel and see the world at a distance from here.'

'If it was no more than that, Mr. John, there would be nothing about it. Zeeing the world!
You young collegers allays does that. But be'est thou to come back and be Squoire o'Folking?'

'I think not, Holt, I think not. My father, I hope, will be Squire for many a year.'

'Like enough. And we all hope that, for there aren't nowhere a juster man nor the Squoire,
and he's hale and hearty. But in course of things his time'll run out. And it be so, Mr. John,
that thou be'est going for ever and allays?'

'I rather think I am.'

'It's wrong, Mr. John. Though maybe I'm making over-free to talk of what don't concern me.
Yet I say it's wrong. Sons should come arter fathers, specially where there's land. We don't
none of us like it;--none of us! It's worse nor going, any one of ourselves. For what's a lease?
But when a man has a freehold he should stick to it for ever and aye. It's just as though the
old place was a-tumbling about all our ears.' Caldigate was good-natured with the man, trying
to make him understand that everything was being done for the best. And at last he bade him
good-bye affectionately, shaking hands with him, and going into the farmhouse to perform the
same ceremony with his wife and daughters. But to the last Ralph Holt was uncomfortable and
dismal, foretelling miseries. It was clear that, to his thinking, the stability of this world
was undermined and destroyed by the very contemplation of such a proceeding as this.

Caldigate pursued his walk, and in the course of it bade farewell to more than one old friend.
None of them were so expressive as Holt, but he could perceive that he was regarded by all
of them as a person who, by his conduct, was bringing misfortune, not only on himself, but
on the whole parishes of Utterden and Netherden.

At dinner the Squire conversed upon various subjects if not easily to himself, at least with
affected ease. Had he applied himself to subjects altogether indifferent,--to the state of
politics, or the Game Laws, or the absurdities of a State Church, the unfitness of such matters
for the occasion would have been too apparent. Both he and his son would have broken down in
the attempt. But he could talk about Babington,--abusing the old family,--and even about himself,
and about New South Wales, and gold, and the coming voyage, without touching points which had
been, and would be, specially painful. Not a word had ever been spoken between them as to Davis.
There had, of course, been letters, very angry letters; but the usurer's name had never been
mentioned. Nor was there any need that it should be mentioned now. It was John's affair,--not
in any way his. So he asked and listened to much about Richard Shand, and the mode of gold-finding
practised among the diggings in New South Wales.

When the old butler had gone he was even more free, speaking of things that were past, not
only without anger, but, as far as possible, without chagrin,--treating his son as a person
altogether free from any control of his. 'I dare say it is all for the best,' he said.

'It is well at any rate to try to think so, sir,' replied John, conscience-stricken as to his
own faults.

'I doubt whether there would have been anything for you to do here,--or at least anything that
you would have done. You would have had too much ambition to manage this little estate under
me, and not enough of industry, I fear, to carry you to the front in any of the professions.
I used to think of the bar.'

'And so did I.'

'But when I found that the Babingtons had got hold of you, and that you liked horses and guns,
better than words and arguments----'

'I never did, sir.'

'It seemed so.'

'Of course I have been weak.'

'Do not suppose for a moment that I am finding fault. It would be of no avail, and I would
not thus embitter our last hours together. But when I saw how your tastes seemed to lead you,
I began to fear that there could be no career for you here. On such a property as Babington
an eldest son may vegetate like his father before him, and may succeed to it in due time, before
he has wasted everything, and may die as he had lived, useless, but having to the end all the
enjoyments of a swine.'

'You are severe upon my cousins, sir.'

'I say what I think. But you would not have done that. And though you are not industrious,
you are far too active and too clever for such a life. Now you are probably in earnest as to
the future.'

'Yes, I am certainly in earnest.'

'And though you are going to risk your capital in a precarious business, you will only be doing
what is done daily by enterprising men. I could wish that your position were more secure;--but
that now cannot be helped.'

'My bed is as I have made it. I quite understand that, sir.'

'Thinking of all this, I have endeavoured to reconcile myself to your going.' Then he paused
a moment, considering what he should next say. And his son was silent, knowing that something
further was to come. 'Had you remained in England we could hardly have lived together as father
and son should live. You would have been dependent on me, and would have rebelled against that
submission which a state of dependence demands. There would have been nothing for you but to
have waited,--and almost to have wished, for my death.'

'No, sir; never; never that.'

'It would have been no more than natural. I shall hear from you sometimes?'

'Certainly, sir.'

'It will give an interest to my life if you will write occasionally. Whither do you go to-morrow?'

It had certainly been presumed, though never said, that this last visit to the old home was
to be only for one day. The hired gig had been kept; and in his letter the son had asked whether
he could be taken in for Thursday night. But now the proposition that he should go so soon
seemed to imply a cold-blooded want of feeling on his part. 'I need not be in such a hurry,
sir,' he said.

'Of course, it shall be as you please, but I do not know that you will do any good by staying.
A last month may be pleasant enough, or even a last week, but a last day is purgatory. The
melancholy of the occasion cannot be shaken off. It is only the prolonged wail of a last farewell.'
All this was said in the old man's ordinary voice, but it seemed to betoken if not feeling
itself, a recognition of feeling which the son had not expected.

'It is very sad,' said the son.

'Therefore, why prolong it? Stand not upon the order of your going but go at once,--seeing
that it is necessary that you should go. Will you take any more wine? No? Then let us go into
the other room. As they are making company of you and have lighted another fire, we will do
as they would have us.' Then for the rest of the evening there was some talk about books, and
the father, who was greatly given to reading, explained to his son what kind of literature
would, as he thought, fit in best with the life of a gold-digger.

After what had passed, Caldigate, of course, took his departure on the following morning. Good-bye
said the old man, as the son grasped his hand, 'Good-bye.' He made no overture to come even
as far as the hall in making this his final adieu.

'I trust I may return to see you in health.'

'It may be so. As to that we can say nothing. Good-bye.' Then, when the son had turned his
back, the father recalled him, by a murmur rather than by a word,--but in that moment he had
resolved to give way a little to the demands of nature. Good-bye my son,' he said, in a low
voice, very solemnly; 'May God bless you and preserve you.' Then he turned back at once to
his own closet.

Chapter IV

The Shands

John Caldigate had promised to go direct from Folking to the house of his friend Richard Shand,
or rather, to the house in which lived Richard Shand's father and family. The two young men
had much to arrange together, and this had been thought to be expedient. When Caldigate, remembering
how affairs were at his own home, had suggested that at so sad a moment he might be found to
be in the way, Shand had assured him that there would be no sadness at all. 'We are not a sentimental
race,' he had said. 'There are a dozen of us, and the sooner some of us disperse ourselves,
the more room will there be in the nest for the others.'

Shand had been Caldigate's most intimate friend at college through the whole period of their
residence, and now he was to be his companion in a still more intimate alliance. And yet, though
he liked the man, he did not altogether approve of him. Shand had also got into debt at Cambridge,
but had not paid his debts; and had dealings also with Davis, as to which he was now quite
indifferent. He had left the University without taking a degree, and had seemed to bear all
these adversities with perfect equanimity. There had not been hitherto much of veneration in
Caldigate's character, but even he had, on occasions, been almost shocked at the want of respect
evinced by his friend for conventional rules. All college discipline, all college authorities,
all university traditions had been despised by Shand, who even in his dress had departed as
far from recognised customs and fashions among the men as from the requisitions of the statutes
and the milder requirements of the dignitaries of the day. Now, though he could not pay his
debts,--and intended, indeed, to run away from them,--he was going to try his fortune with
a certain small capital which his father had agreed to give him as his share of what there
might be of the good things of the world among the Shands generally. As Shand himself said
of both of them, he was about to go forth as a prodigal son, with a perfect assurance that,
should he come back empty-handed, no calf would be killed for him. But he was an active man,
with a dash of fun, and perhaps a sprinkling of wit, quick and brave, to whom life was apparently
a joke, and who boasted of himself that, though he was very fond of beef and beer, he could
live on bread and water, if put to it, without complaining. Caldigate almost feared that the
man was a dangerous companion, but still there was a certain fitness about him for the thing
contemplated; and, for such a venture, where could he find any other companion who would be fit?

Dr. Shand, the father, was a physician enjoying a considerable amount of provincial eminence
in a small town in Essex. Here he had certainly been a succesful man; for, with all the weight
of such a family on his back, he had managed to save some money. There had been small legacies
from other Shands, and trifles of portion had come to them from the Potters, of whom Mrs. Shand
had been one,--Shand and Potter having been wholesale druggists in Smithfield. The young Shands
had generally lived a pleasant life; had gone to school,--the eldest son, as we have seen,
to the university also,--and had had governesses, and ponies to ride, and had been great at
dancing, and had shot arrows, and played Badminton, and been subject to but little domestic
discipline. They had lived crowded together in a great red-brick house, plenteously, roughly,
quarrelling continually, but very fond of each other in their own way, and were known throughout
that side of the country as a happy family. The girls had always gloves and shoes for dancing,
and the boys had enjoyed a considerable amount of shooting and hunting without owning either
guns or horses of their own. Now Dick was to go in quest of a fortune, and all the girls were
stitching shirts for him, and were as happy as possible. Not a word was said about his debts,
and no one threw it in his teeth that he had failed to take a degree. It was known of the Shands
that they always made the best of everything.

When Caldigate got out of the railway carriage at Pollington, he was still melancholy with
the remembrance of all that he had done and all that he had lost, and he expected to find something
of the same feeling at his friend's house. But before he had been there an hour he was laughing
with the girls as though such an enterprise as theirs was the best joke in the world. And when
a day and a night had passed, Mrs. Shand was deep among his shirts and socks, and had already
given him much advice about flannel and soft soap. 'I know Maria would like to go out with
you,' said the youngest daughter on the third day, a girl of twelve years old, who ought to
have known better, and who, nevertheless, knew more than she ought to have done.

'Indeed Maria would like nothing of the kind,' said the young lady in question.

'Only, Mr. Caldigate, of course you would have to marry her.' Then the child was cuffed, and
Maria declared that the proposed arrangement would suit neither her nor Mr. Caldigate in the
least. The eldest daughter, Harriet, was engaged to marry a young clergyman in the neighbourhood,
which event, however, was to be postponed till he had got a living; and the second, Matilda,
was under a cloud because she would persist in being in love with Lieutenant Postlethwaite,
of the Dragoons, whose regiment was quartered in the town. Maria was the third. All these family
secrets were told to him quite openly as well as the fact that Josh, the third son, was to
become a farmer because he could not be got to learn the multiplication table.

Between Pollington and London, Caldigate remained for six weeks, during which time he fitted
himself out, took his passage, and executed the necessary deeds as to the estate. It might
have been pleasant enough,--this little interval before his voyage,--as the Shands, though
rough and coarse, were kind to him and good-humoured, had it not been that a great trouble
befell him through over conscientiousness as to a certain matter. After what had passed at
Babington House, it was expedient that he should, before he started for New South Wales, give
some notice to his relatives there, so that Julia might know that destiny did not intend her
to become Mrs. Caldigate of Folking. Aunt Polly had, no doubt, been too forward in that matter,
and in wishing to dispose of her daughter had put herself in the way of merited rebuke and
disappointment. It was, however, not the less necessary that she should be told of the altered
circumstances of her wished-for son-in-law. But, had he been wise, he would so have written
his letter that no answer should reach him before he had left the shores of England. His conscience,
however, pinched him, and before he had even settled the day on which he would start, he wrote
to his aunt a long letter in which he told her everything,--how he had disposed of his inheritance,--how
he had become so indebted to Davis as to have to seek a new fortune out of England,--how he
had bade farewell to Folking for ever,--and how impossible it was under all these circumstances
that he should aspire to the hand of his cousin Julia.

It was as though a thunderbolt had fallen among them at Babington. Mr. Babington himself was
certainly not a clever man, but he knew enough of his own position, as an owner of acres, to
be very proud of it, and he was affectionate enough towards his nephew to feel the full weight
of this terrible disruption It seemed to him that his brother-in-law, Daniel Caldigate, was
doing a very wicked thing, and he hurried across the country, to Folking, that he might say
so. 'You have not sense enough to understand the matter,' said Daniel Caldigate. 'You have
no heart in your bowels if you can disinherit an only son,' said the big squire. 'Never mind
where I carry my heart,' said the smaller squire; 'but it is a pity you should carry so small
an amount of brain.' No good could be done by such a meeting as that, nor by the journey which
aunt Polly took to Pollington. The Caldigates, both father and son, were gifted with too strong
a will to be turned from their purpose by such interference. But a great deal of confusion
was occasioned; and aunt Polly among the Shands was regarded as a very wonderful woman indeed.
'Oh, my son, my darling son!' she said, weeping on John Caldigate's shoulder. Now John Caldigate
was certainly not her son, in the usual acceptation of the word, nor did Maria Shand believe
that he was so even in that limited sense in which a daughter's husband may be so designated.
It was altogether very disagreeable, and made our hero almost resolve to get on board the ship
a week before it started from the Thames instead of going down to Plymouth and catching it
at the last moment. Of course it would have been necessary that the Babingtons should know
all about it sooner or later, but John very much regretted that he had not delayed his letter
till the day before his departure.

There is something jovial when you are young in preparing for a long voyage and for totally
altered circumstances in life, especially when the surroundings are in themselves not melancholy.
A mother weeping over a banished child may be sad enough,--going as an exile when there is
no hope of a return, But here among the Shands, with whom sons and daughters were plentiful,
and with whom the feelings were of a useful kind, and likely to wear well, rather than of a
romantic nature, the bustle, the purchasings, the arrangements, and the packings generally
had in them a pleasantness of activity with no disagreeable accompaniments.

'I do hope you will wear them, Dick,' the mother said with something like a sob in her voice;
but the tenderness came not from the approaching departure, but from her fear that the thick
woollen drawers on which she was re-sewing all the buttons, should be neglected,--after Dick's
usual fashion. 'Mr. Caldigate I hope you will see that he wears them. He looks strong, but
indeed he is not.' Our hero who had always regarded his friend as a bull for strength of constitution
generally, promised that he would be attentive to Dick's drawers.

'You may be sure that I shall wear them,' said Dick; 'but the time will come when I shall probably
wear nothing else, so you had better make the buttons firm.'

Everything was to be done with strict economy, but yet there was plenty of money for purchases.
There always is at such occasions. The quantity of clothes got together seemed to be more than
any two men could ever wear; and among it all there were no dress-coats and no dress-trousers:
or, if either of them had such articles, they were smuggled. The two young men were going out
as miners, and took a delight in preparing themselves to be rough. Caldigate was at first somewhat
modest in submitting his own belongings to the females of the establishment but that feeling
soon wore off, and the markings and mendings, and buttonings and hemmings went on in a strictly
impartial manner as though he himself were a chick out of the same brood.

'What will you do?' said the doctor, 'if you spend your capital and make nothing?'

'Work for wages,' said Dick. 'We shall have got, at any rate, enough experience out of our
money to be able to do that. Men are getting 10s. a-day.'

'But you'd have to go on doing that always,' said the mother.

'Not at all. Of course it's a life of ups and downs. A man working for wages can put half what
he earns into a claim, so that when a thing does come up trumps at last, he will have his chance.
I have read a good deal about it now. There is plenty to be got if a man only knows how to
keep it.'

'Drinking is the worst,' said the doctor.

'I think I can trust myself for that,' said Dick, whose hand at the moment was on a bottle
of whisky, and who had been by no means averse to jollifications at Cambridge. 'A miner when
he's at work should never drink.'

'Nor when he's not at work, if he wants to keep what he earns.'

'I'm not going to take the pledge, or anything of that kind,' continued the son, 'but I think
I know enough of it all, not to fall into that pit.' During this discussion, Caldigate sat
silent, for he had already had various conversations on this subject with his friend. He had
entertained some fears, which were not, perhaps, quite removed by Dick's manly assurances.

A cabin had been taken for the joint use of the young men on board the Goldfinder, a large
steamer which was running at the time from London to Melbourne, doing the voyage generally
in about two months. But they were going as second-class passengers and their accommodation
therefore was limited. Dick had insisted on this economy, which was hardly necessary to Caldigate,
and which was not absolutely pressed upon the other. But Dick had insisted. 'Let us begin as
we mean to go on,' he had said; 'of course we've got to rough it. We shall come across something
a good deal harder than second-class fare before we have made our fortunes, and worked probably
with mates more uncouth than second-class passengers.' It was impossible to oppose counsel
such as this, and therefore second-class tickets were taken on board the Goldfinder.

A terrible struggle was made during the last fortnight to prevent the going of John Caldigate.
Mr. Babington was so shocked that he did not cease to stir himself. Allow a son to disinherit
himself, merely because he had fallen into the hands of a money-lending Jew before he had left
college! To have the whole condition of a property changed by such a simple accident! It was
shocking to him; and he moved himself in the matter with much more energy than old Mr. Caldigate
had expected from him. He wrote heartrending letters to Folking, in spite of the hard words
which had been said to him there. He made a second journey to Cambridge, and endeavoured to
frighten Mr. Bolton. Descent of acres from father to son was to him so holy a thing, that he
was roused to unexpected energies. He was so far successful that Mr. Daniel Caldigate did write
a long letter to his son, in which he offered to annul the whole proceeding. 'Your uncle accuses
me of injustice,' he said. 'I have not been unjust. But there is no reason whatever why the
arrangement should stand. Even if the money has been paid to Davis I will bear that loss rather
than you should think that I have taken advantage of you in your troubles.' But John Caldigate
was too firm and too determined for such retrogression. The money had been paid to Davis, and
other monies had been used in other directions. He was quite contented with the bargain, and
would certainly adhere to it.

