"The Major is going to draw our covers to-morrow," announced the lady, with a certain heavy
satisfaction.  "Smithers is confident that we'll be able to show him some sport; he swears
he's seen a fox in the nut copse three times this week."

"I'm sure I hope so; I hope so," said the Major moodily.  "I must break this sequence of blank
days.  One hears so often that a fox has settled down as a tenant for life in certain covers,
and then when you go to turn him out there isn't a trace of him.  I'm certain a fox was shot
or trapped in Lady Widden's woods the very day before we drew them."

"Major, if any one tried that game on in my woods they'd get short shrift," said Mrs. Hoopington.

Norah found her way mechanically to the tea-table and made her fingers frantically busy in
rearranging the parsley round the sandwich dish.  On one side of her loomed the morose countenance
of the Major, on the other she was conscious of the scared, miserable eyes of Vladimir.  And
above it all hung THAT.  She dared not raise her eyes above the level of the tea-table, and
she almost expected to see a spot of accusing vulpine blood drip down and stain the whiteness
of the cloth.  Her aunt's manner signalled to her the repeated message to "be bright"; for
the present she was fully occupied in keeping her teeth from chattering.

"What did you shoot to-day?" asked Mrs. Hoopington suddenly of the unusually silent Vladimir.

"Nothing--nothing worth speaking of," said the boy.

Norah's heart, which had stood still for a space, made up for lost time with a most disturbing
bound.

"I wish you'd find something that was worth speaking about," said the hostess; "every one seems
to have lost their tongues."

"When did Smithers last see that fox?" said the Major.

"Yesterday morning; a fine dog-fox, with a dark brush," confided Mrs. Hoopington.

"Aha, we'll have a good gallop after that brush to-morrow," said the Major, with a transient
gleam of good humour.  And then gloomy silence settled again round the teatable, a silence
broken only by despondent munchings and the occasional feverish rattle of a teaspoon in its
saucer.  A diversion was at last afforded by Mrs. Hoopington's fox-terrier, which had jumped
on to a vacant chair, the better to survey the delicacies of the table, and was now sniffing
in an upward direction at something apparently more interesting than cold tea-cake.

"What is exciting him?" asked his mistress, as the dog suddenly broke into short angry barks,
with a running accompaniment of tremulous whines.

"Why," she continued, "it's your gamebag, Vladimir!  What HAVE you got in it?"

"By Gad," said the Major, who was now standing up; "there's a pretty warm scent!"

And then a simultaneous idea flashed on himself and Mrs. Hoopington. Their faces flushed to
distinct but harmonious tones of purple, and with one accusing voice they screamed, "You've
shot the fox!"

Norah tried hastily to palliate Vladimir's misdeed in their eyes, but it is doubtful whether
they heard her.  The Major's fury clothed and reclothed itself in words as frantically as a
woman up in town for one day's shopping tries on a succession of garments.  He reviled and
railed at fate and the general scheme of things, he pitied himself with a strong, deep pity
too poignent for tears, he condemned every one with whom he had ever come in contact to endless
and abnormal punishments.  In fact, he conveyed the impression that if a destroying angel had
been lent to him for a week it would have had very little time for private study.  In the lulls
of his outcry could be heard the querulous monotone of Mrs. Hoopington and the sharp staccato
barking of the fox-terrier.  Vladimir, who did not understand a tithe of what was being said,
sat fondling a cigarette and repeating under his breath from time to time a vigorous English
adjective which he had long ago taken affectionately into his vocabulary.  His mind strayed
back to the youth in the old Russian folk-tale who shot an enchanted bird with dramatic results.
Meanwhile, the Major, roaming round the hall like an imprisoned cyclone, had caught sight of
and joyfully pounced on the telephone apparatus, and lost no time in ringing up the hunt secretary
and announcing his resignation of the Mastership.  A servant had by this time brought his horse
round to the door, and in a few seconds Mrs. Hoopington's shrill monotone had the field to
itself.  But after the Major's display her best efforts at vocal violence missed their full
effect; it was as though one had come straight out from a Wagner opera into a rather tame thunderstorm.
Realising, perhaps, that her tirades were something of an anticlimax, Mrs. Hoopington broke
suddenly into some rather necessary tears and marched out of the room, leaving behind her a
silence almost as terrible as the turmoil which had preceded it.

"What shall I do with--THAT?" asked Vladimir at last.

"Bury it," said Norah.

"Just plain burial?" said Vladimir, rather relieved.  He had almost expected that some of the
local clergy would have insisted on being present, or that a salute might have to be fired
over the grave.

And thus it came to pass that in the dusk of a November evening the Russian boy, murmuring
a few of the prayers of his Church for luck, gave hasty but decent burial to a large polecat
under the lilac trees at Hoopington.

THE STRATEGIST

Mrs. Jallatt's young people's parties were severely exclusive; it came cheaper that way, because
you could ask fewer to them.  Mrs. Jallatt didn't study cheapness, but somehow she generally
attained it.

"There'll be about ten girls," speculated Rollo, as he drove to the function, "and I suppose
four fellows, unless the Wrotsleys bring their cousin, which Heaven forbid.  That would mean
Jack and me against three of them."

Rollo and the Wrotsley brethren had maintained an undying feud almost from nursery days.  They
only met now and then in the holidays, and the meeting was usually tragic for whichever happened
to have the fewest backers on hand.  Rollo was counting to-night on the presence of a devoted
and muscular partisan to hold an even balance.  As he arrived he heard his prospective champion's
sister apologising to the hostess for the unavoidable absence of her brother; a moment later
he noted that the Wrotsleys HAD brought their cousin.

Two against three would have been exciting and possibly unpleasant; one against three promised
to be about as amusing as a visit to the dentist.  Rollo ordered his carriage for as early
as was decently possible, and faced the company with a smile that he imagined the better sort
of aristocrat would have worn when mounting to the guillotine.

"So glad you were able to come," said the elder Wrotsley heartily.

"Now, you children will like to play games, I suppose," said Mrs. Jallatt, by way of giving
things a start, and as they were too well- bred to contradict her there only remained the question
of what they were to play at.

"I know of a good game," said the elder Wrotsley innocently.  "The fellows leave the room and
think of a word; then they come back again, and the girls have to find out what the word is."

Rollo knew the game.  He would have suggested it himself if his faction had been in the majority.

"It doesn't promise to be very exciting," sniffed the superior Dolores Sneep as the boys filed
out of the room.  Rollo thought differently.  He trusted to Providence that Wrotsley had nothing
worse than knotted handkerchiefs at his disposal.

The word-choosers locked themselves in the library to ensure that their deliberations should
not be interrupted.  Providence turned out to be not even decently neutral; on a rack on the
library wall were a dog-whip and a whalebone riding-switch.  Rollo thought it criminal negligence
to leave such weapons of precision lying about. He was given a choice of evils, and chose the
dog-whip; the next minute or so he spent in wondering how he could have made such a stupid
selection.  Then they went back to the languidly expectant females.

"The word's 'camel,'" announced the Wrotsley cousin blunderingly.

"You stupid!" screamed the girls, "we've got to GUESS the word.  Now you'll have to go back
and think of another."

"Not for worlds," said Rollo; "I mean, the word isn't really camel; we were rotting.  Pretend
it's dromedary!" he whispered to the others.

"I heard them say 'dromedary'!  I heard them.  I don't care what you say; I heard them," squealed
the odious Dolores.  "With ears as long as hers one would hear anything," thought Rollo savagely.

"We shall have to go back, I suppose," said the elder Wrotsley resignedly.

The conclave locked itself once more into the library.  "Look here, I'm not going through that
dog-whip business again," protested Rollo.

"Certainly not, dear," said the elder Wrotsley; "we'll try the whalebone switch this time,
and you'll know which hurts most.  It's only by personal experience that one finds out these
things."

It was swiftly borne in upon Rollo that his earlier selection of the dog-whip had been a really
sound one.  The conclave gave his under- lip time to steady itself while it debated the choice
of the necessary word.  "Mustang" was no good, as half the girls wouldn't know what it meant;
finally "quagga" was pitched on.

"You must come and sit down over here," chorused the investigating committee on their return;
but Rollo was obdurate in insisting that the questioned person always stood up.  On the whole,
it was a relief when the game was ended and supper was announced.

Mrs. Jallatt did not stint her young guests, but the more expensive delicacies of her supper-table
were never unnecessarily duplicated, and it was usually good policy to take what you wanted
while it was still there.  On this occasion she had provided sixteen peaches to "go round"
among fourteen children; it was really not her fault that the two Wrotsleys and their cousin,
foreseeing the long foodless drive home, had each quietly pocketed an extra peach, but it was
distinctly trying for Dolores and the fat and good-natured Agnes Blaik to be left with one
peach between them.

"I suppose we had better halve it," said Dolores sourly.

But Agnes was fat first and good-natured afterwards; those were her guiding principles in life.
She was profuse in her sympathy for Dolores, but she hastily devoured the peach, explaining
that it would spoil it to divide it; the juice ran out so.

"Now what would you all like to do?" demanded Mrs. Jallatt by way of diversion.  "The professional
conjurer whom I had engaged has failed me at the last moment.  Can any of you recite?"

There were symptoms of a general panic.  Dolores was known to recite "Locksley Hall" on the
least provocation.  There had been occasions when her opening line, "Comrades, leave me here
a little," had been taken as a literal injunction by a large section of her hearers. There
was a murmur of relief when Rollo hastily declared that he could do a few conjuring tricks.
He had never done one in his life, but those two visits to the library had goaded him to unusual
recklessness.

"You've seen conjuring chaps take coins and cards out of people," he announced; "well, I'm
going to take more interesting things out of some of you.  Mice, for instance."

"Not mice!"

A shrill protest rose, as he had foreseen, from the majority of his audience.

"Well, fruit, them."

The amended proposal was received with approval.  Agnes positively beamed.

