Thus, for example, it is the feeling of men in control of the political organization in France
today that the Church, as a great factor in the social structure of the nation, is essentially
hostile to the spirit and purposes of a liberal republic. Hence a great disturbance of various
relationships. I do not cite that instance to express even the shade of an opinion. My point
is that if the political organization of society is desirable and to be maintained, it is a
fortunate thing when one finds the dominant forces of society rendering loyal and faithful
support to the laws and institutions of government and recognizing without reserve the sovereignty
of the State. Yet in our own country there is a widespread feeling that many of the most potent
forces and agencies in our business life are not wholly patriotic, in that they are not willing
in practice to recognize the necessity of the domination of government and of law. I do not
believe that this is permanently and generally true. It would constitute a great danger if
it were a fixed or a growing tendency.

As matters stand, however, every one must admit that there is an element of danger that lies
in the very fact that as a nation we are in a condition of peace, content, and prosperity,
and do not find our political institutions irksome. The danger consists in this: that under
such circumstances the rewards of business and professional life are for the most part so much
more certain and satisfactory than those which come from the precarious pursuit of politics,
that public interests have a tendency to suffer from being in weak hands, while private interests
have a tendency to assert themselves unduly, from being in the hands of men of superior force.
Thus it happens that it is often difficult for the State to maintain that dignity, that mastery,
that high position, as the impartial arbiter and dispenser of justice, which it is now even
more necessary than ever that it should maintain, in order that the whole social organization
should keep a true harmony and a safe balance.

At present, the State is largely concerned with the maintenance of conditions under which the
economic and business life may operate equally and prosperously. The State in one sense is
the master of the people. In another sense it is merely their creature and their agent for
such purposes as they choose to assign it. Is the State, then, to absorb the industrial functions,
and are we to develop into a socialistic commonwealth? Or, shall the political democracy and
the coöperative organization of business life go on side by side, related at many points but
in the main distinct from each other? Whatever the relation of the State to industry may be
destined to become in the distant future, we may be sure that there will be no rash upheavals,
no harmful socialistic experiments, if the potent business world clearly sees how necessary
to its own salvation it is that the State shall be maintained upon a high plane of dignity
and honor, and that the official dispensation of justice, as well as the official administration
of the laws, shall be prompt, just and impartial.

There is no higher duty, therefore, incumbent upon the business man of today than to bear his
part in promoting and maintaining the purity of political life. The modern business man should
regard good government as one of the vital conditions of the best economic progress. Yet scores
of instances are at hand that show to what a painful extent certain business interests again
and again, for purposes of immediate advantage,--to secure a franchise, to escape a tax, or
to procure some improper favor or advantage at the hands of those in political authority,--have
employed corrupt methods and thus stained the fair escutcheon of American business honor, while
breaking down the one most indispensable condition of general business progress,--namely, honest
and efficient free government.

I will not dwell upon these things. It is enough to say that they are things the modern business
man must have upon his conscience. For, if such offenses come by way of the business world,
their remedies must also come, and indeed can only come, by that same path. In our municipal
life, for example, it is the aroused interest and zeal of the best business community for better
government and better conditions that can alone produce important results. Happily, all over
the country we find chambers of commerce, boards of trade, merchants' associations, and other
bodies of men of practical business affairs, taking their stand for the transaction of public
business upon high standards of character and efficiency. I have no doubt or fears as to what
the result will be. All of our large cities are themselves purely the creations of modern industrial,
commercial, and transportation conditions. And I hold that these very forces of industrial
and commercial life that have created the problems by bringing together great masses of people
in crowded communities, must and can in turn solve the problems by the application to municipal
government of the scientific and intelligent principles which belong to the best phases of
business life.

All of this relates to my subject; but I must pass it by with a mere statement or two. It belongs
to the developed constructive imagination and to the trained ethical sense of the modern business
man to perfect the transit systems, to improve the housing conditions, to assure cheap sanitary
water supplies, cheap illumination, and, above all, due provision for universal education,
parks, museums, and opportunities for recreation,--in short, all possible improvements of environment
that can make life in our cities not merely endurable but beneficial for the people. Here,
then, is furnished a great field for the definite and conscious aspirations of the successful
man of business. Here lies a great many-sided work for social and moral as well as physical
and material progress which the business man, in the quality of good citizen and man of public
spirit, is fitted better than any one else to accomplish.

The intelligent young man who holds before himself ideals of usefulness that extend to such
projects as these, may be sure that the modern conditions of life will bring him great opportunities,
and he may feel that he is thus lifting his business career up to the plane of idealism that
has, in the past, been reserved for a few exclusive professions. Partly through his own endeavors,--largely
through association in commercial or other organizations with his neighbors,--he may help to
accomplish for the benefit of all his fellow men of a great community one step after another
in the direction of public works that will meet the needs of a high civilization.

Some of the most useful men, as well as the most unselfish and devoted, with whom I come in
contact are successful business men of large affairs. They are modest and unassuming; simple
and direct in their methods; wide as the world in their sympathies; lofty as the stars in their
aspirations for human progress; sagacious beyond other classes of men, and respected to the
point of veneration by those who know them well, because they are men of deeds rather than
of words, who make good their professions from day to day. Business has not so narrowed them,
nor has devotion to philanthropic ends or public reforms so distorted their mental visions,
that they are not able to enjoy what is good in life, whether books, music, pictures, the companionship
of friends, or the restful contact with nature in field or forest.

The lives of such men are dominated by certain fixed ethical standards. Given such moral landmarks,
the remarkable conditions and unequaled opportunities of modern business life will promote
the frequent development of men of this kind, with their breadth of view and strength of mind
and character.