I was sitting alone in the public room at the hotel, filling my flask with brandy,--for matters
of primary importance I never leave to servant, dragoman, or guide,--when the waiter entered,
and said that a gentleman wished to speak with me.  The gentleman had not sent in his card
or name; but any gentleman was welcome to me in my solitude, and I requested that the gentleman
might enter.  In appearance the gentleman certainly was a gentleman, for I thought that I had
never before seen a young man whose looks were more in his favour, or whose face and gait and
outward bearing seemed to betoken better breeding.  He might be some twenty or twenty-one years
of age, was slight and well made, with very black hair, which he wore rather long, very dark
long bright eyes, a straight nose, and teeth that were perfectly white.  He was dressed throughout
in grey tweed clothing, having coat, waistcoat, and trousers of the same; and in his hand he
carried a very broad-brimmed straw hat.

"Mr. Jones, I believe," he said, as he bowed to me.  Jones is a good travelling name, and,
if the reader will allow me, I will call myself Jones on the present occasion.

"Yes," I said, pausing with the brandy-bottle in one hand, and the flask in the other.  "That's
my name; I'm Jones.  Can I do anything for you, sir?"

"Why, yes, you can," said he.  "My name is Smith,--John Smith."

"Pray sit down, Mr. Smith," I said, pointing to a chair.  "Will you do anything in this way?"
and I proposed to hand the bottle to him. "As far as I can judge from a short stay, you won't
find much like that in Jerusalem."

He declined the Cognac, however, and immediately began his story. "I hear, Mr. Jones," said
he, "that you are going to Moab to- morrow."

"Well," I replied, "I don't know whether I shall cross the water. It's not very easy, I take
it, at all times; but I shall certainly get as far as Jordan.  Can I do anything for you in
those parts?"

And then he explained to me what was the object of his visit.  He was quite alone in Jerusalem,
as I was myself; and was staying at H- 's hotel.  He had heard that I was starting for the
Dead Sea, and had called to ask if I objected to his joining me.  He had found himself, he
said, very lonely; and as he had heard that I also was alone, he had ventured to call and make
his proposition.  He seemed to be very bashful, and half ashamed of what he was doing; and
when he had done speaking he declared himself conscious that he was intruding, and expressed
a hope that I would not hesitate to say so if his suggestion were from any cause disagreeable
to me.

As a rule I am rather shy of chance travelling English friends.  It has so frequently happened
to me that I have had to blush for the acquaintances whom I have selected, that I seldom indulge
in any close intimacies of this kind.  But, nevertheless, I was taken with John Smith, in spite
of his name.  There was so much about him that was pleasant, both to the eye and to the understanding!
One meets constantly with men from contact with whom one revolts without knowing the cause
of such dislike.  The cut of their beard is displeasing, or the mode in which they walk or
speak.  But, on the other hand, there are men who are attractive, and I must confess that I
was attracted by John Smith at first sight.  I hesitated, however, for a minute; for there
are sundry things of which it behoves a traveller to think before he can join a companion for
such a journey as that which I was about to make.