The Bessemer process makes enormous masses of steel and makes it very cheaply; but it has one
fault--it is too quick. The converter roars away for a few minutes, till the carbon and other
impurities are burned out; and the men have no control over the operation. In what is called
the "open-hearth" process, pig iron, scrap iron, and ore are melted together with whatever
other substances may be needed to make the particular kind of steel desired. This process takes
much longer than the Bessemer, but it can be controlled. Open-hearth steel is more homogeneous,--that
is, more nearly alike all the way through,--and is better for some purposes, while for others
the Bessemer is preferred.

Steel is hard and strong, but it has two faults. A steel bar will stand a very heavy blow and
not break, but if it is struck gently many thousand times, it sometimes crystallizes and may
snap. A steel rail may carry a train for years and then may crystallize and break and cause
a wreck. Inventors are at work discovering alloys to prevent this crystallization. The second
fault of steel is that it rusts and loses its strength. That is why an iron bridge or fence
must be kept painted to protect it from the moisture in the air.

If all the iron that is in use should suddenly disappear, did you ever think what would happen?
Houses, churches, skyscrapers, and bridges would fall to the ground. Railroad trains, automobiles,
and carriages would become heaps of rubbish. Ships would fall apart and become only scattered
planks floating on the surface of the water. Clocks and watches would become empty cases. There
would be no machines for manufacturing or for agriculture, not even a spade to dig a garden.
Everybody would be out of work. If you wish to see how it would seem, try for an hour to use
nothing that is of iron or has been made by using iron.

VIII

OUR GOOD FRIEND COPPER

Where did rocks come from?

Some were deposited in water, like limestone and like the shale and sandstone that lie over
the strata of coal. Others were made by fire, and were thrown up in a melted state from the
interior of the earth. Such rocks are the Giant's Causeway in Ireland and the Palisades of
the Hudson River. They are called "igneous" rocks, from the Latin word ignis meaning "fire."

When the igneous rocks were thrown up to the surface of the earth, they brought various metals
with them. How the metals happened to be there ready to be brought up, no one knows. Some people
think they were dissolved in water and then deposited; others think that electricity had something
to do with their formation. However that may be, metals were brought up with the igneous rocks,
and one of these metals is copper.

Now, to one who did not know how to work iron, copper was indeed a wonderful treasure, for
it made very good knives and spoons. The people who lived in this country long before the Indians
came understood how to use it, and after a while the Indians themselves found out its value.
They did not trouble themselves to dig for it; they simply picked it up from the ground, good
pure metal in lumps; and with stones for hammers they beat it into knives.

There was only one place in what is now the United States where they could do this, and that
was in northern Michigan. A long point of land stretches out into Lake Superior as if it was
trying to see what could be found there. Just beyond its reach is Isle Royal; and in these
two places there was plenty of copper, enough for the Indians, enough for the people who have
come after them, and enough for a great many more. One piece of copper which the Indians did
not pick up, and the United States Government did, is the famous Ontonagon Boulder, so called
because it was found near the Ontonagon River. It weighs more than three tons. The Indians
would have been glad to make use of it, but it was too hard for their tools, and so they are
said to have worshiped it as a god. It is now in the National Museum in Washington.

The lumps of copper, such as those which delighted the hearts of the Indians, are known to-day
as "barrel" copper, because they are of a good size to be dropped into barrels and carried
away for smelting. The great boulders which the Indians could not use are called "mass" copper.
Sometimes they weigh as much as five hundred tons. The copper in them is almost pure, and a
big boulder is worth perhaps $200,000. Nevertheless, the mine-owners do not rejoice when they
come upon such a mass in their digging, for it cannot be either dug or blasted, and has to
be cut away with chisels of chilled steel. Now, a mine may be wonderfully rich in metal, but
if working it costs too much, then another mine with less metal but more easily worked will
pay better. So it is with these great masses of copper. They are interesting to study and they
look well in museums, but they do not pay so well as the "stamp" copper which is found in humble
little bits in the gangue, or the rock of the vein, and has to be pounded in a stamp mill.
This gangue is dug out and broken up as in mines of other metals. The copper is much heavier
than the rock, so it is easy to get rid of the worthless gangue by means of a flow of water.
The gangue of the Michigan mines is exceedingly hard, but the stamps are so powerful that one
can crush five hundred tons in less than twenty-four hours. Some copper can be taken out of
the mortars at once, but the rest of the broken gangue is fed to jigs, or screens, which are
kept under jets of water. The water is thrown up from below and the lighter rock is tossed
away, while the heavier copper falls through the tiny holes in the screens.

After the ore has been through all these experiences, it comes out looking like dark-colored
sand or coarse brown sugar. It is not interesting, and no one who saw it for the first time
would ever fancy that it was going to turn into something beautiful. It is dumped into freight
cars and trundled off to the smelting furnaces. But however uninteresting it looks, it is well
worth while to follow these cars to see what happens to it at the smelters. First of all, even
before it goes into the smelting furnace, it must be roasted. There is usually sulphur combined
with the copper, and roasting will get rid of much of it. In some places this is done by building
up a great heap of ore with a little wood. The wood is kindled, and by the time it has burned
out, the sulphur in the ore has begun to burn, and in a good-sized heap it will continue to
burn for perhaps two months.

Such a heap is a good thing to keep away from, for the fumes of sulphur are very disagreeable.
Indeed, they will kill trees and other growing things wherever the wind may carry them, even
several miles away. The managers of mines of copper as well as of gold and silver have learned
to economize; and it has been found that instead of letting these fumes go into the air, they
may be made to pass through acid chambers lined with zinc and full of water. The water holds
the fumes, and can be used in making sulphuric acid.

After the ore has been roasted, it is put into the furnace for smelting. If you should make
an oven and put into it a mixture of wood and roasted copper, that would be a smelting furnace.
Set the wood on fire, pump in air to make the flame hot, and if your furnace could be made
hot enough,--that is, 2300° F., or about eleven times as hot as boiling water,--you could smelt
copper. Of course the furnace of a real smelting factory will hold tons and tons of copper
ore and has all sorts of improvements, but after all it is in principle only an oven with wood
and ore and draft. Another sort of furnace, which is better for some kinds of ore, has a grate
for the fire and a bed above it for the copper.

Imagine an enormous furnace holding between two and three hundred tons of metal and burning
with such a terrific heat that by contrast boiling water would seem cool and comfortable. Suddenly,
while you stand looking at it, but a long way off, a door flies open and the most beautiful
cascade--only it is not a waterfall, but a copper fall--pours out. It looks like red, red gold,
rich and wonderful, with little flames of red and blue dancing over it. It might almost be
one of the fire-breathing dragons of the old story-books; and if it should get loose, it would
devour whomever it touched far quicker than any dragon. It hardly seems as if any one could
manage such a monster; but it looks easy, after you have seen it done. An enormous horizontal
wheel revolves slowly. On its edge are moulds shaped like bricks, but much larger. On the hub
of the wheel a workman sits to direct the filling of these. A set of them is filled, and moves
on, and others take their place. When they are partly cooled, another workman, at the farther
side of the wheel, pries them out of the mould and drops them into water. Then by the aid of
the fingers of a machine and those of men, they are loaded upon cars.

In copper there is often some gold and silver. The precious metals do not make the copper any
better, and if they can be separated from it, they are well worth the trouble. This is done
by electricity. It is so successful that the metallurgists are hoping soon to take a long step
ahead and by means of electricity to produce refined copper directly from the ore. Indeed,
this has been done already in the laboratories, but before the managers of mines can employ
the method, a way of making it less expensive must be discovered.

No mine that wastes anything is as well managed as it might be; and superintendents are constantly
on the watch for cheaper methods and for ways to make the refuse matter of use. Even the scoria,
or slag from the furnaces, has been found to be good for something, and now it is made into
a coarse sort of brick that for certain rough uses is of value. By the way, the shaft of a
copper mine, the Red Jacket, has shown itself of use in a manner that no one expected, namely,
it helps to prove that the earth turns around. This shaft is the deepest mining shaft in the
world, and when you get into the cage, you go down a full mile toward the center of the earth.
If you drop any article into the shaft, it always strikes the east side before reaching the
bottom. The only way to explain this is that the earth turns toward the east.

Copper mixed with zinc forms brass, which is harder than copper alone. It tarnishes, though
not so easily as copper; but a coat of varnish will protect it till the varnish wears off.
A good way to find out the many uses of brass and to see how valuable they are is to go along
the street and through a house and make a list. On the street you will see signs, harness buckles,
and buttons, everywhere. Look on the automobiles and fire engines for a fine display of brass,
polished and shining. In the house you will find brass bedsteads, curtain rods, faucets, pipes,
drawerpulls, candlesticks, gas and electric fixtures, lamps, the works of clocks and watches,
and scores of other things. You will not have any idea how many they are till you begin to count.

Copper mixed with tin forms bronze. Go into a hardware store and look at the samples of bronze
outside of each drawer, and you will be surprised that there are so many. Bronze does not change
even when in the open air for ages. That is one reason why it has always been so much used
for statues. There are two strange facts about this mixture. One is that bronze is harder than
either copper or tin. The other is that if you mix one pint of melted copper with one pint
of tin, the mixture will be less than a quart. Just why these things are so, no one is quite
certain. Mathematics declares that the whole is equal to the sum of its parts; but in this
one case the whole seems to be less than the sum of its parts.

Another reason why bronze is so much used for statues is that the castings are smooth. I once
went to a foundry to have a brass ornament shaped somewhat like a cone made for a clock. The
foundryman formed a mould in clay and poured the melted brass into it. When it had cooled,
the mould was broken off and the ornament taken out; but it was of no use because it was so
full of little hollows that it could not be made smooth without cutting away a great deal of
it. The man had to try three times before he succeeded in making one that could be polished.
If it had been made of bronze, there would have been no trouble, because bronze, hard as it
is after it cools, flows when it is melted almost as easily as molasses and fills every little
nook and corner of the mould.

A famous Latin poet named Horace, who lived two thousand years ago, wrote of his poems, "I
have reared a monument more lasting than bronze"; and he was right, for few statues have endured
from his day to ours, but his poems are still read and admired.

Bells are made of bronze, about three quarters copper and one quarter tin. It is thought that
much copper gives a deep, full tone, and that much tin with, sometimes, zinc makes the tone
sharp. The age of a bell has something to do with its sound being rich and mellow; but the
bellmaker has even more, for he must understand not only how to cast it, but also how to tune
it. If you tap a large bell, it will, if properly tuned, sound a clear note. Tap it just on
the curve of the top, and it will give a note exactly one octave above the first. If the note
of the bell is too low, it can be made higher by cutting away a little from the inner rim.
If it is too high, it can be made lower by filing on the inside a little above the rim. Many
of the old bells contain the gifts of silver and gold which were thrown in by people who watched
their founding. The most famous bell in the United States is the "Liberty Bell" of Independence
Hall, in Philadelphia, which rang when Independence was adopted by Congress. This was founded
in England long before the Revolution and later was melted and founded again in the United States.

It would not be easy to get on without brass and bronze; but even these alloys are not so necessary
as copper by itself. It is so strong that it is used in boiler tubes of locomotives, as roofing
for buildings and railroad coaches, in the great pans and vats of the sugar factories and refineries.
A copper ore called "malachite," which shows many shades of green, beautifully blended and
mingled, is used for the tops of tables. Wooden ships are often "copper-bottomed"; that is,
sheets of copper are nailed to that part of the hull which is under water in order to prevent
barnacles from making their homes on it, and so lessening the speed of the vessel.

People often say that the latter half of the nineteenth century was the Age of Steel, because
so many new uses for steel were found at that time. The twentieth century promises to be the
Age of Electricity, and electricity must have copper. Formerly iron was used for telegraph
wires; but it needs much more electricity to carry power or light or heat or a telegraphic
message over an iron wire than one of copper. Moreover, iron will rust and will not stretch
in storms like copper, and so needs renewing much oftener. Electric lighting and the telephone
are everywhere, even on the summits of mountains and in mines a mile below the earth's surface.
Electric power, if a waterfall furnishes the electricity, is the cheapest power known. The
common blue vitriol is one form of copper, and to this we owe many of our electric conveniences.
It is used in all wet batteries, and so it rings our doorbells for us. It also sprays our apple
and peach trees, and is a very valuable article. Indeed, copper in all its forms, pure and
alloyed, is one of our best and most helpful friends.

IX

THE NEW METAL, ALUMINUM

Not many years ago a college boy read about an interesting metal called "aluminum." It was
as strong as iron, but weighed only one third as much, and moisture would not make it rust.
It was made of a substance called "alumina," and a French chemist had declared that the clay
banks were full of it; and yet it cost as much as silver. It had been used in France for jewelry
and knicknacks, and a rattle of it had been presented to the baby son of the Emperor of France
as a great rarity.

The college boy thought by day and dreamed by night of the metal that was everywhere, but that
might as well be nowhere, so far as getting at it was concerned. At the age of twenty-one,
the young man graduated, but even his new diploma could not keep his mind away from aluminum.
He borrowed the college laboratory and set to work. For seven or eight months he tried mixing
the metal with various substances to see if it would not dissolve. At length he tried a stone
from Greenland called "cryolite," which had already been used for making a kind of porcelain.
The name of this stone comes from two Greek words meaning "ice stone," and it is so called
because it melts so easily. The young student melted it and found that it would dissolve alumina.
Then he ran an electric current through the melted mass, and there was a deposit of aluminum.
This young man, just out of college, had discovered a process that resulted in reducing the
cost of aluminum from twelve dollars a pound to eighteen cents. Meanwhile a Frenchman of the
same age had been working away by himself, and made the same discovery only two months later.

Aluminum is now made from a mineral called "bauxite," found chiefly in Georgia, Alabama, and
Arkansas. Mining it is much more agreeable than coal mining, for the work is done aboveground.
The bauxite is in beds or strata which often cover the hills like a blanket. First of all,
the mine is "stripped,"--that is, the soil which covers the ore is removed,--and then the mining
is done in great steps eight or ten feet high, if a hill is to be worked. There is some variety
in mining bauxite, for it occurs in three forms. First, it may be a rock, which has to be blasted
in order to loosen it. Second, it may be in the form of gray or red clay. Third, it occurs
in round masses, sometimes no larger than peas, and sometimes an inch in diameter. In this
form it can easily be loosened with a pickaxe, and shoveled into cars to be carried to the
mill. Bauxite is a rather mischievous mineral and sometimes acts as if it delighted in playing
tricks upon managers of mines. The ore may not change in the least in its appearance, and yet
it may suddenly have become much richer or much poorer. Therefore the superintendent has to
give his ore a chemical test every little while to make sure that all things are going on well.

This bauxite is purified, and the result is a fine white powder, which is pure alumina, and
consists of the metal aluminum and the gas oxygen. Cryolite is now melted by electricity. The
white powder is put into it, and dissolves just as sugar dissolves in water. The electricity
keeps on working, and now it separates the alumina into its two parts. The aluminum is a little
heavier than the melted cryolite, and therefore it settles and may be drawn off at the bottom
of the melting-pot.

There are a good many reasons why aluminum is useful. As has been said it is strong and light
and does not rust in moisture. You can beat it into sheets as thin as gold leaf, and you can
draw it into the finest wire. It is softer than silver, and it can be punched into almost any
form. It is the most accommodating of metals. You can hammer it in the cold until it becomes
as hard as soft iron. Then, if you need to have it soft again, it will become so by melting.
It takes a fine polish and is not affected, as silver is, by the fumes which are thrown off
by burning coal; and so keeps its color when silver would turn black. Salt water does not hurt
it in the least, and few of the acids affect it. Another good quality is that it conducts electricity
excellently. It is true that copper will do the same work with a smaller wire; but the aluminum
is much lighter and so cheap that the larger wire of aluminum costs less than the smaller one
of copper, and its use for this purpose is on the increase. It conducts heat as well as silver.
If you put one spoon of aluminum, one of silver, and one that is "plated" into a cup of hot
water, the handles of the first two will almost burn your fingers before the third is at all
uncomfortable to touch.

Aluminum is found not only in clay and indeed in most rocks except sandstone and limestone,
but also in several of the precious stones, in the yellow topaz, the blue sapphire and lapis-lazuli,
and the red garnet and ruby. It might look down upon some of its metallic relatives, but it
is friendly with them all, and perfectly willing to form alloys with most of them. A single
ounce of it put into a ton of steel as the latter is being poured out will drive away the gases
which often make little holes in castings. Mixed with copper it makes a beautiful bronze which
has the yellow gleam of gold, but is hard to work. When a piece of jewelry looks like gold,
but is sold at too low a price to be "real," it may be aluminum bronze, very pretty at first,
but before long its luster will vanish. Aluminum bronze is not good for jewelry, but it is
good for many uses, especially for bearings in machinery. Aluminum mixed with even a very little
silver has the color and brightness of silver. The most common alloys with aluminum are zinc,
copper, and manganese, but in such small quantities that they do not change its appearance.

With so many good qualities and so few bad ones, it is small wonder that aluminum is employed
for more purposes than can be counted. A very few years ago it was only an interesting curiosity,
but now it is one of the hardest-worked metals. Automobiles in particular owe a great deal
to its help. When they first began to be common, in 1904-05, the engines were less powerful
than they are now made, and aluminum was largely employed in order to lessen the weight. Before
long it was in use for carburetors, bodies, gear-boxes, fenders, hoods, and many other parts
of the machine. Makers of electric apparatus use aluminum instead of brass. The frames of opera
glasses and of cameras are made of it. Travelers and soldiers and campers, people to whom every
extra ounce of weight counts, are glad enough to have dishes of aluminum. The accommodating
metal is even used for "wallpaper," and threads of it are combined with silk to give a specially
brilliant effect on the stage. It can be made into a paint which will protect iron from rust;
and will make woodwork partially fireproof.

