"It is with joy I discover, my dearest son," replied the Abbot, "that I have arrived in time
to arrest thee on the verge of the precipice to which thou wert approaching. These doubts of
which you complain, are the weeds which naturally grow up in a strong soil, and require the
careful hand of the husbandman to eradicate them. Thou must study a little volume, which I
will impart to thee in fitting time, in which, by Our Lady's grace, I have placed in somewhat
a clearer light than heretofore, the points debated betwixt us and these heretics, who sow
among the wheat the same tares which were formerly privily mingled with the good seed by the
Albigenses and the Lollards. But it is not by reason alone that you must hope to conquer these
insinuations of the enemy: It is sometimes by timely resistance, but oftener by timely flight.
You must shut your ears against the arguments of the heresiarch, when circumstances permit
you not to withdraw the foot from his company. Anchor your thoughts upon the service of Our
Lady, while he is expending in vain his heretical sophistry. Are you unable to maintain your
attention on heavenly objects--think rather on thine own earthly pleasures, than tempt Providence
and the Saints by giving an attentive ear to the erring doctrine--think of thy hawk, thy hound,
thine angling rod, thy sword and buckler--think even of Catherine Seyton, rather than give
thy soul to the lessons of the tempter. Alas! my son, believe not that, worn out with woes,
and bent more by affliction than by years, I have forgotten the effect of beauty over the heart
of youth. Even in the watches of the night, broken by thoughts of an imprisoned Queen, a distracted
kingdom, a church laid waste and ruinous, come other thoughts than these suggest, and feelings
which belonged to an earlier and happier course of life. Be it so--we must bear our load as
we may: and not in vain are these passions implanted in our breast, since, as now in thy case,
they may come in aid of resolutions founded upon higher grounds. Yet beware, my son--this Catherine
Seyton is the daughter of one of Scotland's proudest, as well as most worthy barons; and thy
state may not suffer thee, as yet, to aspire so high. But thus it is--Heaven works its purposes
through human folly; and Douglas's ambitious affection, as well as thine, shall contribute
alike to the desired end."

"How, my father," said the page, "my suspicions are then true!--Douglas loves----"

"He does; and with a love as much misplaced as thine own; but beware of him--cross him not--thwart
him not."

"Let him not cross or thwart me," said the page; "for I will not yield him an inch of way,
had he in his body the soul of every Douglas that has lived since the time of the Dark Gray
Man." [Footnote: By an ancient, though improbable tradition, the Douglasses are said to have
derived their name from a champion who had greatly distinguished himself in an action. When
the king demanded by whom the battle had been won, the attendants are said to have answered,
"Sholto Douglas, sir;" which is said to mean, "Yonder dark gray man." But the name is undoubtedly
territorial, and taken from Douglas river and vale.]

"Nay, have patience, idle boy, and reflect that your suit can never interfere with his.--But
a truce with these vanities, and let us better employ the little space which still remains
to us to spend together. To thy knees, my son, and resume the long-interrupted duty of confession,
that, happen what may, the hour may find in thee a faithful Catholic, relieved from the guilt
of his sins by authority of the Holy Church. Could I but tell thee, Roland, the joy with which
I see thee once more put thy knee to its best and fittest use! Quid dicis, mi fili?"

"Culpas meas" answered the youth; and according to the ritual of the Catholic Church, he confessed
and received absolution, to which was annexed the condition of performing certain enjoined
penances.

When this religious ceremony was ended, an old man, in the dress of a peasant of the better
order, approached the arbour, and greeted the Abbot.--"I have waited the conclusion of your
devotions," he said, "to tell you the youth is sought after by the chamberlain, and it were
well he should appear without delay. Holy Saint Francis, if the halberdiers were to seek him
here, they might sorely wrong my garden-plot--they are in office, and reck not where they tread,
were each step on jessamine and clovegilly-flowers."

"We will speed him forth, my brother," said the Abbot; "but alas! is it possible that such
trifles should live in your mind at a crisis so awful as that which is now impending?"

"Reverend father," answered the proprietor of the garden, for such he was, "how oft shall I
pray you to keep your high counsel for high minds like your own? What have you required of
me, that I have not granted unresistingly, though with an aching heart?"

"I would require of you to be yourself, my brother," said the Abbot Ambrosius; "to remember
what you were, and to what your early vows have bound you."

"I tell thee, Father Ambrosius," replied the gardener, "the patience of the best saint that
ever said pater-noster, would be exhausted by the trials to which you have put mine--What I
have been, it skills not to speak at present-no one knows better than yourself, father, what
I renounced, in hopes to find ease and quiet during the remainder of my days--and no one better
knows how my retreat has been invaded, my fruit-trees broken, my flower-beds trodden down,
my quiet frightened away, and my very sleep driven from my bed, since ever this poor Queen,
God bless her, hath been sent to Lochleven.--I blame her not; being a prisoner, it is natural
she should wish to get out from so vile a hold, where there is scarcely any place even for
a tolerable garden, and where the water-mists, as I am told, blight all the early blossoms--I
say, I cannot blame her for endeavouring for her freedom; but why I should be drawn into the
scheme--why my harmless arbours, that I planted with my own hands, should become places of
privy conspiracy-why my little quay, which I built for my own fishing boat, should have become
a haven for secret embarkations--in short, why I should be dragged into matters where both
heading and hanging are like to be the issue, I profess to you, reverend father, I am totally
ignorant."

"My brother," answered the Abbot, "you are wise, and ought to know--"

"I am not--I am not--I am not wise," replied the horticulturist, pettishly, and stopping his
ears with his fingers--"I was never called wise but when men wanted to engage me in some action
of notorious folly."

"But, my good brother," said the Abbot--

"I am not good neither," said the peevish gardener; "I am neither good nor wise--Had I been
wise, you would not have been admitted here; and were I good, methinks I should send you elsewhere
to hatch plots for destroying the quiet of the country. What signifies disputing about queen
or king,--when men may sit at peace--sub umbra vitis sui? and so would I do, after the precept
of Holy Writ, were I, as you term me, wise or good. But such as I am, my neck is in the yoke,
and you make me draw what weight you list.--Follow me, youngster. This reverend father, who
makes in his jackman's dress nearly as reverend a figure as I myself, will agree with me in
one thing at least, and that is, that you have been long enough here."

"Follow the good father, Roland," said the Abbot, "and remember my words--a day is approaching
that will try the temper of all true Scotsmen--may thy heart prove faithful as the steel of
thy blade!"

The page bowed in silence, and they parted; the gardener, notwithstanding his advanced age,
walking on before him very briskly, and muttering as he went, partly to himself, partly to
his companion, after the manner of old men of weakened intellects--"When I was great," thus
ran his maundering, "and had my mule and my ambling palfrey at command, I warrant you I could
have as well flown through the air as have walked at this pace. I had my gout and my rheumatics,
and an hundred things besides, that hung fetters on my heels; and, now, thanks to Our Lady,
and honest labour, I can walk with any good man of my age in the kingdom of Fife--Fy upon it,
that experience should be so long in coming!"

As he was thus muttering, his eye fell upon the branch of a pear-tree which drooped down for
want of support, and at once forgetting his haste, the old man stopped and set seriously about
binding it up. Roland Graeme had both readiness, neatness of hand, and good nature in abundance;
he immediately lent his aid, and in a minute or two the bough was supported, and tied up in
a way perfectly satisfactory to the old man, who looked at it with great complaisance. "They
are bergamots," he said, "and if you will come ashore in autumn, you shall taste of them--the
like are not in Lochleven Castle--the garden there is a poor pin-fold, and the gardener, Hugh
Houkham, hath little skill of his craft--so come ashore, Master Page, in autumn, when you would
eat pears. But what am I thinking of--ere that time come, they may have given thee sour pears
for plums. Take an old man's advice, youth, one who hath seen many days, and sat in higher
places than thou canst hope for--bend thy sword into a pruning-hook, and make a dibble of thy
dagger--thy days shall be the longer, and thy health the better for it,--and come to aid me
in my garden, and I will teach thee the real French fashion of imping, which the Southron call
graffing. Do this, and do it without loss of time, for there is a whirlwind coming over the
land, and only those shall escape who lie too much beneath the storm to have their boughs broken
by it."

So saying, he dismissed Roland Graeme, through a different door from that by which he had entered,
signed a cross, and pronounced a benedicite as they parted, and then, still muttering to himself,
retired into the garden, and locked the door on the inside.

Chapter the Twenty-Ninth.

  Pray God she prove not masculine ere long!
                        KING HENRY VI.

Dismissed from the old man's garden, Roland Graeme found that a grassy paddock, in which sauntered
two cows, the property of the gardener, still separated him from the village. He paced through
it, lost in meditation upon the words of the Abbot. Father Ambrosius had, with success enough,
exerted over him that powerful influence which the guardians and instructors of our childhood
possess over our more mature youth. And yet, when Roland looked back upon what the father had
said, he could not but suspect that he had rather sought to evade entering into the controversy
betwixt the churches, than to repel the objections and satisfy the doubts which the lectures
of Henderson had excited. "For this he had no time," said the page to himself, "neither have
I now calmness and learning sufficient to judge upon points of such magnitude. Besides, it
were base to quit my faith while the wind of fortune sets against it, unless I were so placed,
that my conversion, should it take place, were free as light from the imputation of self-interest.
I was bred a Catholic--bred in the faith of Bruce and Wallace--I will hold that faith till
time and reason shall convince me that it errs. I will serve this poor Queen as a subject should
serve an imprisoned and wronged sovereign--they who placed me in her service have to blame
themselves--who sent me hither, a gentleman trained in the paths of loyalty and honour, when
they should have sought out some truckling, cogging, double-dealing knave, who would have been
at once the observant page of the Queen, and the obsequious spy of her enemies. Since I must
choose betwixt aiding and betraying her, I will decide as becomes her servant and her subject;
but Catherine Seyton--Catherine Seyton, beloved by Douglas and holding me on or off as the
intervals of her leisure or caprice will permit--how shall I deal with the coquette?--By heaven,
when I next have an opportunity, she shall render me some reason for her conduct, or I will
break with her for ever!"

As he formed this doughty resolution, he crossed the stile which led out of the little enclosure,
and was almost immediately greeted by Dr. Luke Lundin.

"Ha! my most excellent young friend," said the Doctor, "from whence come you?--but I note the
place.--Yes, neighbour Blinkhoolie's garden is a pleasant rendezvous, and you are of the age
when lads look after a bonny lass with one eye, and a dainty plum with another. But hey! you
look subtriste and melancholic--I fear the maiden has proved cruel, or the plums unripe; and
surely I think neighbour Blinkhoolie's damsons can scarcely have been well preserved throughout
the winter--he spares the saccharine juice on his confects. But courage, man, there are more
Kates in Kinross; and for the immature fruit, a glass of my double distilled aqua mirabilis--probatum
est."

The page darted an ireful glance at the facetious physician; but presently recollecting that
the name Kate, which had provoked his displeasure, was probably but introduced for the sake
of alliteration, he suppressed his wrath, and only asked if the wains had been heard of?

"Why, I have been seeking for you this hour, to tell you that the stuff is in your boat, and
that the boat waits your pleasure. Auchtermuchty had only fallen into company with an idle
knave like himself, and a stoup of aquavitae between them. Your boatmen lie on their oars,
and there have already been made two wefts from the warder's turret to intimate that those
in the castle are impatient for your return. Yet there is time for you to take a slight repast;
and, as your friend and physician, I hold it unfit you should face the water-breeze with an
empty stomach."

Roland Graeme had nothing for it but to return, with such cheer as he might, to the place where
his boat was moored on the beach, and resisted all offer of refreshment, although the Doctor
promised that he should prelude the collation with a gentle appetizer--a decoction of herbs,
gathered and distilled by himself. Indeed, as Roland had not forgotten the contents of his
morning cup, it is possible that the recollection induced him to stand firm in his refusal
of all food, to which such an unpalatable preface was the preliminary. As they passed towards
the boat, (for the ceremonious politeness of the worthy Chamberlain would not permit the page
to go thither without attendance,) Roland Graeme, amidst a group who seemed to be assembled
around a party of wandering musicians, distinguished, as he thought, the dress of Catherine
Seyton. He shook himself clear from his attendant, and at one spring was in the midst of the
crowd, and at the side of the damsel. "Catherine," he whispered, "is it well for you to be
still here?--will you not return to the castle?"

"To the devil with your Catherines and your castles!" answered the maiden, snappishly; "have
you not had time enough already to get rid of your follies? Begone! I desire not your farther
company, and there will be danger in thrusting it upon me."

"Nay--but if there be danger, fairest Catherine," replied Roland; "why will you not allow me
to stay and share it with you?"

"Intruding fool," said the maiden, "the danger is all on thine own side--the risk in, in plain
terms, that I strike thee on the mouth with the hilt of my dagger." So saying, she turned haughtily
from him, and moved through the crowd, who gave way in some astonishment at the masculine activity
with which she forced her way among them.

As Roland, though much irritated, prepared to follow, he was grappled on the other side by
Doctor Luke Lundin, who reminded him of the loaded boat, of the two wefts, or signals with
the flag, which had been made from the tower, of the danger of the cold breeze to an empty
stomach, and of the vanity of spending more time upon coy wenches and sour plums. Roland was
thus, in a manner, dragged back to his boat, and obliged to launch her forth upon his return
to Lochleven Castle.

That little voyage was speedily accomplished, and the page was greeted at the landing-place
by the severe and caustic welcome of old Dryfesdale. "So, young gallant, you are come at last,
after a delay of six hours, and after two signals from the castle? But, I warrant, some idle
junketing hath occupied you too deeply to think of your service or your duty. Where is the
note of the plate and household stuff?--Pray Heaven it hath not been diminished under the sleeveless
care of so young a gad-about!"

"Diminished under my care, Sir Steward!" retorted the page angrily; "say so in earnest, and
by Heaven your gray hair shall hardly protect your saucy tongue!"

"A truce with your swaggering, young esquire," returned the steward; "we have bolts and dungeons
for brawlers. Go to my lady, and swagger before her, if thou darest--she will give thee proper
cause of offence, for she has waited for thee long and impatiently."

"And where then is the Lady of Lochleven?" said the page; "for I conceive it is of her thou
speakest."

"Ay--of whom else?" replied Dryfesdale; "or who besides the Lady of Lochleven hath a right
to command in this castle?"

"The Lady of Lochleven is thy mistress," said Roland Graeme; "but mine is the Queen of Scotland."

The steward looked at him fixedly for a moment, with an air in which suspicion and dislike
were ill concealed by an affectation of contempt. "The bragging cock-chicken," he said, "will
betray himself by his rash crowing. I have marked thy altered manner in the chapel of late--ay,
and your changing of glances at meal-time with a certain idle damsel, who, like thyself, laughs
at all gravity and goodness. There is something about you, my master, which should be looked
to. But, if you would know whether the Lady of Lochleven, or that other lady, hath a right
to command thy service, thou wilt find them together in the Lady Mary's ante-room."

Roland hastened thither, not unwilling to escape from the ill-natured penetration of the old
man, and marvelling at the same time what peculiarity could have occasioned the Lady of Lochleven's
being in the Queen's apartment at this time of the afternoon, so much contrary to her usual
wont. His acuteness instantly penetrated the meaning. "She wishes," he concluded, "to see the
meeting betwixt the Queen and me on my return, that she may form a guess whether there is any
private intelligence or understanding betwixt us--I must be guarded."

With this resolution he entered the parlour, where the Queen, seated in her chair, with the
Lady Fleming leaning upon the back of it, had already kept the Lady of Lochleven standing in
her presence for the space of nearly an hour, to the manifest increase of her very visible
bad humour. Roland Graeme, on entering the apartment, made a deep obeisance to the Queen, and
another to the Lady, and then stood still as if to await their farther question. Speaking almost
together, the Lady Lochleven said, "So, young man, you are returned at length?"

And then stopped indignantly short, while the Queen went on without regarding her--"Roland,
you are welcome home to us--you have proved the true dove and not the raven--Yet I am sure
I could have forgiven you, if, once dismissed, from this water-circled ark of ours, you had
never again returned to us. I trust you have brought back an olive-branch, for our kind and
worthy hostess has chafed herself much on account of your long absence, and we never needed
more some symbol of peace and reconciliation."

"I grieve I should have been detained, madam," answered the page; "but from the delay of the
person intrusted with the matters for which I was sent, I did not receive them till late in
the day."

"See you there now," said the Queen to the Lady Lochleven; "we could not persuade you, our
dearest hostess, that your household goods were in all safe keeping and surety. True it is,
that we can excuse your anxiety, considering that these august apartments are so scantily furnished,
that we have not been able to offer you even the relief of a stool during the long time you
have afforded us the pleasure of your society."

"The will, madam," said the lady, "the will to offer such accommodation was more wanting than
the means."

"What!" said the Queen, looking round, and affecting surprise, "there are then stools in this
apartment--one, two--no less than four, including the broken one--a royal garniture!--We observed
them not--will it please your ladyship to sit?"

"No, madam, I will soon relieve you of my presence," replied the Lady Lochleven; "and while
with you, my aged limbs can still better brook fatigue, than my mind stoop to accept of constrained
courtesy."

"Nay, Lady of Lochleven, if you take it so deeply," said the Queen, rising and motioning to
her own vacant chair, "I would rather you assumed my seat--you are not the first of your family
who has done so."

The Lady of Lochleven curtsied a negative, but seemed with much difficulty to suppress the
angry answer which rose to her lips.

During this sharp conversation, the page's attention had been almost entirely occupied by the
entrance of Catherine Seyton, who came from the inner apartment, in the usual dress in which
she attended upon the Queen, and with nothing in her manner which marked either the hurry or
confusion incident to a hasty change of disguise, or the conscious fear of detection in a perilous
enterprise. Roland Graeme ventured to make her an obeisance as she entered, but she returned
it with an air of the utmost indifference, which, in his opinion, was extremely inconsistent
with the circumstances in which they stood towards each other.--"Surely," he thought, "she
cannot in reason expect to bully me out of the belief due to mine own eyes, as she tried to
do concerning the apparition in the hostelry of Saint Michael's--I will try if I cannot make
her feel that this will be but a vain task, and that confidence in me is the wiser and safer
course to pursue."

These thoughts had passed rapidly through his mind, when the Queen, having finished her altercation
with the Lady of the castle, again addressed him--"What of the revels at Kinross, Roland Graeme?
Methought they were gay, if I may judge from some faint sounds of mirth and distant music,
which found their way so far as these grated windows, and died when they entered them, as all
that is mirthful must--But thou lookest as sad as if thou hadst come from a conventicle of
the Huguenots!"

"And so perchance he hath, madam," replied the Lady of Lochleven, at whom this side-shaft was
lanched. "I trust, amid yonder idle fooleries, there wanted not some pouring forth of doctrine
to a better purpose than that vain mirth, which, blazing and vanishing like the crackling of
dry thorns, leaves to the fools who love it nothing but dust and ashes."

"Mary Fleming," said the Queen, turning round and drawing her mantle about her, "I would that
we had the chimney-grate supplied with a fagot or two of these same thorns which the Lady of
Lochleven describes so well. Methinks the damp air from the lake, which stagnates in these
vaulted rooms, renders them deadly cold."

