In certain lights that mark on the wall seems actually to project from the wall. Nor is it
entirely circular. I cannot be sure, but it seems to cast a perceptible shadow, suggesting
that if I ran my finger down that strip of the wall it would, at a certain point, mount and
descend a small tumulus, a smooth tumulus like those barrows on the South Downs which are,
they say, either tombs or camps. Of the two I should prefer them to be tombs, desiring melancholy
like most English people, and finding it natural at the end of a walk to think of the bones
stretched beneath the turf.... There must be some book about it. Some antiquary must have dug
up those bones and given them a name.... What sort of a man is an antiquary, I wonder? Retired
Colonels for the most part, I daresay, leading parties of aged labourers to the top here, examining
clods of earth and stone, and getting into correspondence with the neighbouring clergy, which,
being opened at breakfast time, gives them a feeling of importance, and the comparison of arrow-heads
necessitates cross-country journeys to the county towns, an agreeable necessity both to them
and to their elderly wives, who wish to make plum jam or to clean out the study, and have every
reason for keeping that great question of the camp or the tomb in perpetual suspension, while
the Colonel himself feels agreeably philosophic in accumulating evidence on both sides of the
question. It is true that he does finally incline to believe in the camp; and, being opposed,
indites a pamphlet which he is about to read at the quarterly meeting of the local society
when a stroke lays him low, and his last conscious thoughts are not of wife or child, but of
the camp and that arrowhead there, which is now in the case at the local museum, together with
the foot of a Chinese murderess, a handful of Elizabethan nails, a great many Tudor clay pipes,
a piece of Roman pottery, and the wine-glass that Nelson drank out of--proving I really don't
know what.

No, no, nothing is proved, nothing is known. And if I were to get up at this very moment and
ascertain that the mark on the wall is really--what shall we say?--the head of a gigantic old
nail, driven in two hundred years ago, which has now, owing to the patient attrition of many
generations of housemaids, revealed its head above the coat of paint, and is taking its first
view of modern life in the sight of a white-walled fire-lit room, what should I gain?--Knowledge?
Matter for further speculation? I can think sitting still as well as standing up. And what
is knowledge? What are our learned men save the descendants of witches and hermits who crouched
in caves and in woods brewing herbs, interrogating shrew-mice and writing down the language
of the stars? And the less we honour them as our superstitions dwindle and our respect for
beauty and health of mind increases.... Yes, one could imagine a very pleasant world. A quiet,
spacious world, with the flowers so red and blue in the open fields. A world without professors
or specialists or house-keepers with the profiles of policemen, a world which one could slice
with one's thought as a fish slices the water with his fin, grazing the stems of the water-lilies,
hanging suspended over nests of white sea eggs.... How peaceful it is down here, rooted in
the centre of the world and gazing up through the grey waters, with their sudden gleams of
light, and their reflections--if it were not for Whitaker's Almanack--if it were not for the
Table of Precedency!

I must jump up and see for myself what that mark on the wall really is--a nail, a rose-leaf,
a crack in the wood?

