In almost every one of these separation cases it is the woman and not the man, who gives the
signal. In George D. Herron's case the wife offered to take a certain sum of money and release
him from supporting her. He met her conditions--and bore all the odium like a man. To her credit
be it said she did not pose as an injured woman. I know nothing about Elbert Hubbard's case,
but I venture to say that if he and his wife are separated that she was the one who did the
leaving act.

We hear a lot about the "Biblical reason" for divorce; but I say unto you that infidelity is
no reason at all for divorce. The one just cause for separation is incompatibility of temper.

A man is an Individual; a woman is another Individual; and neither can make himself or herself
over to please the other.

When two people from lack of similar ideals and aims cannot pull together the quicker they
pull apart the better it will be for them--and the children, too.

I know well a couple who lived together long enough to have grown children. For nearly a score
of years they pulled like a pair of balky horses--what time they were not doing the monkey
and parrot act. The husband stayed out nights and tippled. The wife sat at home and felt virtuous.
Finally the woman worked up spunk enough to do what she had been dying to do for years. She
packed up and left. Now she is happily married to a man she can pull with, And he is married
to another woman who pulls with him. She has quit feeling virtuous and he has quit tippling.
They are both prospering financially. The children have two pleasant homes, and more educational
and other advantages than they ever dared hope for. Everyone of the family is glad of that
separation.

The family is an institution of man's own making. It is a good and glorious thing so long as
it serves to increase the happiness and health of its members. But whenever the family institution
has to be maintained at the expense of the life, liberty or happiness of its members it is
time to lay that particular institution on the shelf.

What God does not hold together by LOVE let not man try to paste together by law.

One great cause of the increase of divorces is the financial emancipation of woman. Women can
now get out and take care of themselves, where a few years ago they had to grin and bear it;
or bear it without grinning.

If the new thought means anything, Brother Wing, it means that every individual man or woman,
has the RIGHT to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness wherever and with whom he chooses
to seek it, so long as he or she does not attempt to abridge the same rights for others. It
means that a woman is as much an Individual as a man, and must stand or fall, hold her husband
or lose him, on her own merits. The new thought deals with Individuals regardless of sex.

Marriage is a partnership, subject in the eyes of Justice to the same rules which govern other
partnerships. Let us be just to the deserter, be he man or woman, before we are sentimentally
generous to the deserted.

And don't let us be too sure that we know all the facts in these separation cases. It is human
nature to fix up outward appearances for the benefit of the passer-by.

Seek rather to understand. Condemn not.

Has any one told you it is lucky to be married?

I hasten to inform you it is just as lucky to be divorced, and I know it.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE OLD, OLD STORY.

This is the springtime, when fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love and everybody wants to
go a-soul-mating. Consequently my mail is leavened with letters from those who are unhappily
married but who are sure they have got their eye on the One who from the foundation of the
ion was intended for them. They all want to leave the old mis-mate and go to the new found
soul mate, and they all want my advice and encouragement--to do it! Some of these writers have
already left their husbands (?) and want to know whether or not they should go back, or go
on. To one such I wrote the following letter, which I publish in the hope that it will help
others to find and follow themselves. Here is the letter:

One thing at a time! Get off with the old love before you go fretting about a new one! Don't
you think you are a silly girl to ask anybody's advice as to whether or not you are to go back
to your so-called husband? If I know what you ought to do I don't see what you are worth to
yourself or the universe. The truth is that YOU are the only person in creation who can make
that decision. If you don't yet know that you have a right to make your own life as you see
fit; if you don't yet know whether or not you could go back to him; then be still until you
do know.

You know things today that you did not know yesterday, and tomorrow you will know things you
"can't decide about" today. So attend strictly to business and keep still, and stiller yet,
until you KNOW what is best to do.

Then DO it.

So much for the old love. As to the new one, not even you can know for certain whether that
other man would pan out the soul mate you now imagine him. But the Law of Love, or Attraction,
will prove whether or not he is what you think. Your Own will come to you, and all creation
can't hinder it--IF you keep that man was NOT what I longed for, a real comrade; sweet and
cool, and free in your own mind, and make the best of THIS day as it comes along.

Ages ago I had a similar experience to yours. I found the only and original one intended for
me. But I was tied to another man--NOT by a ceremony, for that ties nobody, but by my own conscience,
which compelled me to "stand by" the man I thought "needed" me. So I stood, though I thought
my heart was broken. In a few years I found that my soul mate was no mate at all!--I wouldn't
have had him as a gracious gift! I felt like Ben Franklin who, as a barefooted boy, resolved
that when he grew up and had pennies he would buy a stick of red striped peppermint candy;
but when he grew up and had the pennies he didn't want the candy.

I have learned to smile at that experience as the bitterest and sweetest of my past life, and
the source of volumes of wisdom. The Law of Attraction knew and the Law kept him from me. I
afterward found the real comrade, and more than the joy I thought I had forever missed!

"We are pretty silly children, dearie, without the child's best quality, TRUST."

Just you let go of everything and everybody and apply yourself to doing THIS hour, with love,
what your hands find to do; and trust the Law to bring you in due time ALL the good things
you ever desired.

ACCEPT what comes as from the Law; meet it kindly and do your best.

The time came when I left my husband and secured a divorce. This may be your time to leave,
or it may not. But NO one can know but yourself, and you will know as soon as you really want
to know what is RIGHT, and get quiet enough to find the decision about which you have no doubt.
"BLESSED is he that doubteth not in that thing which he alloweth." "He that doubteth is damned
already." When you are sure, then go ahead; and the whole universe, seen and unseen, will work
together for you and with you.

What is it that ties you to one man and not to another? Not the words of a priest or a justice
of the peace. It is your thought about the matter, and his thought about the matter, which
ties you. You may not have thought you were tied until the preacher told you; but not his words
but your acceptance does the real tying.

If you are ever freed from a husband you must think yourself free--just as you must think yourself
free from any other bondage. I thought myself free several years before I applied for a legal
separation; so that when I did apply it was to me merely a technicality.

Divorce or no divorce you are tied to a man until you think yourself untied.

Be still and find your mental freedom. Then you will know what to do.

       *       *       *       *       *

A year after I wrote the above letter to a young woman who wanted to leave her husband and
go to her "soul mate," I received from her another letter in which she thanked me from her
heart for my letter, which, she said, had saved her from a terrible mistake. She had let time
try the new love; who was found sadly wanting. More than that she had come to love and respect
her husband as never before. Many others, both men and women, have written me to the same effect.

Can you learn from the experiences of others--learn caution at least? I hope so. Be sure you
are right before you resort to separation.

In the meantime make it the aspiration and business of your life to know that ALL things are
NOW working for good to you and your mate, and all you hold in common.

Keep sweet, dearie, and let them work--at least until you know exactly what to do, and how
to do it; and can feel sure in your heart of hearts that, whatever the consequences, you will
never regret your action.