'Of course it is.  He told me the whole affair, and certainly Mr. Meadows was greatly to blame.
He let Maria give this man every encouragement, believing his property larger, and his expectations
more secure than was the case; and when the proposal was made, having discovered his mistake,
he sent a peremptory refusal, giving him reason to suppose her a party to the rejection.  Captain
Pringle sailed in anger; but it appears that his return has revived his former feelings, and
that he has found out that poor Maria was a greater sufferer than himself.'

'Why does he come to you?'

'To consult me.  He wishes me to persuade poor old Mrs. Meadows to go out to the Mauritius,
which is clearly impossible, but Maria must not be sacrificed again.  Would the Drurys make
her comfortable?  Or could she not live alone with her maid?'

'She might live here.'

'Albinia!  Think a little.'

'I can think of nothing else.  Let her have the morning room, and Sophy's little room, and
Lucy and I would do our best for her.'

'No, that is out of the question.  I would not impose such charge upon you on any consideration!'

Albinia's face became humble and remorseful.  'Yes,' she said, 'perhaps I am too impatient
and flighty.'

'That was not what I meant,' he said; 'but I do not think it right that a person with no claims
of relationship should be made a burthen on you.'

'No claims, Edmund,' said she, softly.  'In whose place have you put me?'

He was silent: then said, 'No, it must not be, my kind Albinia.  She is a very good old lady,
but Sophy and she would clash, and I cannot expose the child to such a trial.'

'I dare say you are right,' pensively said Albinia, perceiving that her plan had been inconsiderate,
and that it would require the wisdom, tact, and gentleness of a model woman to deal with such
discordant elements.  'What are you going to do?' as he took up his hat.  'Are you going to
see Maria?  May I come with you?'

'If you please; but do not mention this notion.  There is no necessity for such a tax on you;
and such arrangement should never be rashly made.'

He asked whether Miss Meadows could see him, and awaited her alone in the dining-room, somewhat
to the surprise of his wife; but either he felt that there was a long arrear of kindness owing,
or feared to trust Albinia's impulsive generosity.

Meantime Albinia found the poor old lady in much uneasiness and distress.  Her daughter fancied
it right to keep her in ignorance of the crisis; but Maria was not the woman to conceal her
feelings, and her nervous misery had revealed all that she most wished to hide. Too timid to
take her confidence by storm, her mother had only exchanged surmises and observations with
Betty, and was in a troubled condition of affectionate curiosity and anxiety.  Albinia was
a welcome visitor since it was a great relief to hear what had really taken place and to know
that Mr. Kendal was with Maria.

'Ah! that is kind,' she said; 'but he must tell her not to think of me.  I am an old woman,
good for nothing but to be put out of the way, and she has gone through quite enough!  You
will not let her give it up!  Tell her I have not many more years to live, and anything is
good enough for me.'

'That would hardly comfort her,' said Albinia, affectionately; 'but indeed, dear grandmamma,
I hope we shall convince her that we can do something to supply her place.'

'Ah! my dear, you are very kind, but nobody can be like a daughter! But don't tell Maria so--poor
dear love--she may never have another chance.  Such a beautiful place out there, and Mr. Pringle's
property must come to him at last!  Bless me, what will Sarah Drury say?  And such a good attentive
man--besides, she never would hear of any one else--her poor papa never knew--Oh! she must
have him! it is all nonsense to think of me!  I only wish I was dead out of the way!'

There was a strong mixture of unselfish love, and fear of solitude; of the triumph of marrying
a daughter, and dread of separation; of affection, and of implanted worldliness; touching Albinia
at one moment, and paining her at another; but she soothed and caressed the old lady, and was
a willing listener to what was meant for a history of the former transaction; but as it started
from old Mr. Pringle's grandfather, it had only proceeded as far as the wedding of the Captain's
father and mother, when it was broken off by Mr. Kendal's entrance.

'Oh! my dear Mr. Kendal, and what does poor Maria say?  It is so kind in you.  I hope you have
taken her in hand, and told her it is quite another thing now, and her poor dear papa would
think so.  She must not let this opportunity pass, for she may never have another.  Did you
tell her so?'

'I told her that, under the circumstances, she has no alternative but to accept Captain Pringle.'

'Oh! thank you.  And does she?'

'She has given me leave to send him to her.'

'I am so much obliged.  I knew that nobody but you could settle it for her, poor dear girl;
she is so young and inexperienced, and one is so much at a loss without a gentleman.  But this
is very kind; I did not expect it in you, Mr. Kendal.  And will you see Mr. Pettilove, and
do all that is proper about settlements, as her poor dear papa would have done.  Poor Pettilove,
he was once very much in love with Maria!'

In this mood of triumph and felicity, the old lady was left to herself and her daughter.  Albinia,
on the way home, begged to hear how Mr. Kendal had managed Maria; and found that he had simply
told her, in an authoritative tone, that after all that had passed, she had no choice but to
accept Captain Pringle, and that he had added a promise, equally vague and reassuring, of being
a son to Mrs. Meadows.  Such injunctions from such a quarter had infused new life into Maria;
and in the course of the afternoon, Albinia met the Captain with the mother and daughter, one
on each arm, Maria in recovered bloom and brilliancy, and Mrs. Meadows's rheumatism forgotten
in the glory of exhibiting her daughter engaged.

For form's sake, secrecy had been mentioned; but the world of Bayford had known of the engagement
a fortnight before took place.  Sophy had been questioned upon it by Mary Wolfe two hours ere
she was officially informed, and was sore with the recollection of her own ungracious professions
of ignorance.

'So it is true,' she said.  'I don't mind, since Arthur is not a girl.'

Mr. Kendal laughed so heartily, that Sophy looked to Albinia for explanation; but even on the
repetition of her words, she failed to perceive anything ridiculous in them.

'Why, mamma,' she said, impressively, 'if you had been like Aunt Maria, I should--' she paused
and panted for sufficient strength of phrase--'I should have run away and begged!  Papa laughs,
but I am sure he remembers when grandmamma and Aunt Maria wanted to come and live here!'

He looked as if he remembered it only too well.

'Well, papa,' pursued Sophy, 'we heard the maids saying that they knew it would not do, for
all Mr. Kendal was so still and steady, for Miss Meadows would worret the life out of a lead
pincushion.'

'Hem!' said Mr. Kendal.  'Albinia, do you think after all we are doing Captain Pringle any
kindness?'

'He is the best judge.'

'Nay, he may think himself bound in honour and compassion--he may be returning to an old ideal.'

'People like Captain Pringle are not apt to have ideals,' said Albinia; 'nor do I think Maria
will be so trying.  Do you remember that creeper of Lucy's, all tendrils and catching leaves,
which used to lie sprawling about, entangling everything till she gave it a prop, when it instantly
found its proper development, and offered no further molestation?'

All was not, however, smooth water as yet.  The Captain invaded Mr. Kendal the next morning
in despair at Maria having recurred to the impossibility of leaving her mother, and wanting
him to wait till he could reside in England.  This could not be till his son was grown up,
and ten years were a serious delay.  Mr. Kendal suspected her of a latent hope that the Captain
would end by remaining at home; but he was a man sense and determination, who would have thought
it unjustifiable weakness to sacrifice his son's interests and his own usefulness.  He would
promise, that if all were alive and well, he would bring Maria back in ten or twelve years'
time; but he would not sooner relinquish his duties, and he was very reluctant to become engaged
on such terms.

'No one less silly than poor Maria would have thought of such a proposal,' was Mr. Kendal's
comment afterwards to his wife.  'Twelve years!  No one would be able to live with her by that
time!'

'I cannot help respecting the unselfishness,' said Albinia.

'One sided unselfishness,' quoth Mr. Kendal.  'I am sick of the whole business, I wish I had
never interfered.  I cannot get an hour to myself.'

He might be excused for the complaint on that day of negotiations and counter-negotiations,
which gave no one any rest, especially after Mrs. Drury arrived with all the rights of a relation,
set on making it evident, that whoever was to be charged with Mrs. Meadows, it was not herself;
and enforcing that nothing could be more comfortable than that Lucy Kendal should set up housekeeping
with her dear grandmamma.  Every one gave advice, and nobody took it; Mrs. Meadows cried, Maria
grew hysterical, the Captain took up his hat and walked out of the house; and Albinia thought
it would be very good in him ever to venture into it again.

The next morning Mr. Kendal ordered his horse early, and hastened his breakfast; told Albinia
not to wait dinner for him, and rode off by one gate, without looking behind him, as the other
opened to admit Captain Pringle.  She marvelled whither he had fled, and thought herself fortunate
in having only two fruitless discussions in his absence.  Not till eight o'clock did he make
his appearance, and then it was in an unhearing, unseeing mood, so that nothing could be extracted,
except that he did not want any dinner; and it was not till late in the evening that he abruptly
announced, 'Lucy is coming home on Wednesday.  Colonel Bury will bring her to Woodside.'

What? have you heard from Maurice?'

'No; I have been at Fairmead.'

You!  To-day!  How was Winifred?'

'Better--I believe.'

'How does she like the governess?'

'I did not hear.'

Gradually something oozed out about Lucy having been happy and valuable, and after Sophy had
gone to bed, he inquired how the courtship was going on?

'Worse than ever,' Albinia said.

'I suppose it must end in this?'

'In what!'

'If there is no more satisfactory arrangement, I suppose we must receive Mrs. Meadows.'

If Albinia could but have heard what a scolding her brother was undergoing from his vivacious wife!

'As if poor Albinia had not enough on her hands!  Of all inmates in the world!  When Mr. Kendal
himself did not like it!  Well!  Maurice would certainly have advised Sinbad to request the
honour of taking the Old Man of the Sea for a promenade a cheval.  There was an end of Albinia.
There would never be any room in her house, and she would never be able to come from home.
And after having seen her worked to death, he to advise--'

'I did not advise, I only listened.  What he came for was to silence his conscience and his
wife by saying, "Your brother thinks it out of the question."  Now to this my conscience would
not consent.'

'More shame for it, then!'

'I could not say I thought these two people's happiness should be sacrificed, or the poor old
woman left desolate.  Albinia has spirits and energy for a worse infliction, and Edmund Kendal
himself is the better for every shock to his secluded habits.  If it is a step I would never
dare advise, still less would I dare dissuade.'

'Well! I thought Mr. Kendal at least had more sense.'

'Ay, nothing is so provoking as to see others more unselfish than ourselves.'

'All I have to say,' concluded Mrs. Ferrars, walking off, 'is, I wish there was a law against
people going and marrying two wives.'

Albinia was in no haste to profit by her husband's consent to her proposal.  The more she revolved
it, the more she foresaw the discomfort for all parties.  She made every effort to devise the
'more satisfactory arrangement,' but nothing would occur.  The Drurys would not help, and the
poor old lady could not be left alone.  Her maid Betty, who had become necessary to her comfort,
was not a trustworthy person, and could not be relied on, either for honesty, or for not leaving
her mistress too long alone; and when the notion was broached of boarding Mrs. Meadows with
some family in the place, the conviction arose, that when she had grandchildren, there was
no reason for leaving her to strangers.

Finally, the proposal was made, and as instantly rejected by Maria. It was very kind, but her
mother could never be happy at Willow Lawn, never; and the tone betrayed some injury at such
a thing being thought possible.  But just as the Kendals had begun to rejoice at having cleared
their conscience at so slight a cost, Captain Pringle and Miss Meadows made their appearance,
and Maria presently requested that Mrs. Kendal would allow her to say a few words.

'I am afraid you thought me very rude and ungrateful,' she began, 'but the truth was, I did
not think dear mamma would ever bear to live here, my poor dear sister and all; but since that,
I have been talking it over with the dear Captain--thinks that since you are so kind, and dear
Edmund--more than I could ever have dared to expect-- that I could not do better than just
to sound mamma.'

There was still another vicissitude. Mrs. Meadows would not hear of being thrust on any one,
and was certain that Maria had extorted an invitation; she would never be a burden upon any
one; young people liked company and amusement, and she was an old woman in every one's way;
she wished she were in her coffin with poor dear Mr. Meadows, who would have settled it all.
Maria fell back into the depths of despair, and all was lugubrious, till Mr. Kendal, in the
most tender and gentle manner, expressed his hopes that Mrs. Meadows would consider the matter,
telling her that his wife and children would esteem it a great privilege to attend on her,
and that he should be very grateful if she would allow them to try to supply Maria's place.
And Albinia, in her coaxing tone, described the arrangement; how the old furniture should stand
in the sitting-room, and how Lucy would attend to her carpet-work, and what nice walks the
sunny garden would afford, and how pleasant it would be not to have the long hill between them,
till grandmamma forgot all her scruples in the fascination of that sweet face and caressing
manner, she owned that poor old Willow Lawn always was like home, and finally promised to come.
Before the evening was over the wedding-day was fixed.

What Sophy briefly termed 'the fuss about Aunt Maria,' had been so tedious, that it almost
dispelled all poetical ideas of courtship. If Captain Pringle had been drowned at sea, and
Aunt Maria pined herself into her grave, it would have been much more proper and affecting.

Sophy heard of the arrangement without remark, and quietly listened to Albinia's explanation
that she was not to be sent up to the attics, but was to inhabit the spare room, which was
large enough to serve her for a sitting-room.  But in the evening Mr. Kendal happened in her
absence to take up the book which she had been reading, and did not perceive at once on her
entrance that she wanted it.  When he did so, he yielded it with a few kind words of apology,
but this vexation had been sufficient to bring down the thunder-cloud which had been lowering
since the morning.  There were no signs of clearance the next day; but Albinia had too much
upon her hands to watch the symptoms, and was busy making measurements for the furniture in
the morning-room when Mr. Kendal came in.

'I have been thinking,' he said, 'that it is a pity to disturb this room.  I dare say Mrs.
Meadows would prefer that below-stairs.  It used to be her parlour, where she always sat when
I first knew the house.'

'The dining-room?  How could we spare that?'

'No, the study.'

Albinia remained transfixed.

'We could put the books here and in the dining-room,' he continued, 'until next spring, when,
as your brother said, we can build a new wing on the drawing-room side.'

'And what is to become of you?' she continued.

'Perhaps you will admit me here,' he said, smiling, for he was pleased with himself.  'Turn
me out when I am in the way.'

'Oh! Edmund, how delightful!  See, we shall put your high desk under the window, and your chair
in your own corner.  This will be the pleasantest place in the house, with you and your books!
Dear Winifred! she did me one of her greatest services when she made me keep this room habitable!'

'And I think Sophy will not object to give up her present little room for my dressing-room.
Shall you, my dear?' said he, anxious to judge of her temper by her reply.

'I don't care,' she said; 'I don't want any difference made to please me; I think that weak.'

'Sophy!' began Albinia, indignantly, but Mr. Kendal stopped her, and made her come down, to
consider of the proposal in the study.

That study, once an oppressive rival to the bride, now not merely vanquished, but absolutely
abandoned by its former captive!

'Don't say anything to her,' said Mr. Kendal, as they went downstairs.  'Of course her spirits
are one consideration, but were it otherwise, I could not see you give up your private room.'

'It is very kind in you, but indeed I can spare mine better than you can,' said Albinia.  'I
am afraid you will never feel out of the whirl.'

'Yours would be a loss to us all,' said Mr. Kendal.  'The more inmates there are in a house,
the more needful to have them well assorted.'

'Just so; and that makes me afraid--'

'Of me?  No, Albinia, I will try not to be a check on your spirits.'

'You!  Oh! I meant that we should disturb you.'

'You never disturb me, Albinia; and it is not what it was when the children's voices were untrained
and unsubdued.'

'I can't say much for Master Maurice's voice.'

He smiled, he had never yet found those joyous notes de trop, and he continued, 'Your room
is of value and use to us all; mine has been of little benefit to me, and none to any one else.
I wish I could as easily leave behind me all the habits I have fostered there.'

'Edmund, it is too good!  When poor Sophy recovers her senses she will feel it, for I believe
that morning room would have been a great loss to her.'

'It was too much to ask in her present state.  I should have come to the same conclusion without
her showing how much this plan cost her, for nothing can be plainer than that while she continues
subject to these attacks, she must have some retreat.'

'Yet,' ventured Albinia, 'if you think solitude did you no good, do you think letting these
fits have their swing is good for Sophy?'

