LECTURES OF COL. R. G. INGERSOLL

  Including His Answers To The Clergy,
  His Oration At His Brother's Grave, Etc., Etc.

Complete In Two Volumes

Volume I

CONTENTS

     Gods
     Ghosts
     Hell
     Individuality
     Humboldt
     Which Way
     The Great Infidels
     Talmagian Theology
     At a Child's Grave
     Ingersoll's Oration at His Brother's Grave
     Mistakes of Moses
     Skulls and Replies
     What Shall We Do To Be Saved?
     Ingersoll's Answer To Prof. Swing, Dr. Thomas, And Others

INGERSOLL'S LECTURE ON GODS

Ladies and Gentlemen: An honest god is the noblest work of man. Each nation has created a god,
and the god has always resembled his creators. He hated and loved what they hated and loved,
and he was invariably found on the side of those in power.  Each god was intensely patriotic,
and detested all nations but his own.  All these Gods demanded praise, flattery, and worship.
Most of them were pleased with sacrifice, and the smell of innocent blood has ever been considered
a divine perfume. All these gods have insisted upon having a vast number of priests, and the
priests have always insisted upon being supported by the people, and the principal business
of these priests has been to boast about their God, and to insist that he could easily vanquish
all the other gods put together.

These gods have been manufactured after numberless models, and according to the most grotesque
fashions.  Some have a thousand arms, some a hundred heads, some are adorned with necklaces
of living snakes, some are armed with clubs, some with sword and shield, some with bucklers,
and some with wings as a cherub; some were invisible, some would show themselves entire, and
some would only show their backs; some were jealous, some were foolish, some turned themselves
into men, some into swans, some into bulls, some into doves, and some into holy ghosts, and
made love to the beautiful daughters of men.  Some were married--all ought to have been--and
some were considered as old bachelors from all eternity.  Some had children, and the children
were turned into gods and worshiped as their fathers had been.  Most of these gods were revengeful,
savage, lustful, and ignorant; as they generally depended upon their priests for information,
their ignorance can hardly excite our astonishment.

These gods did not even know the shape of the worlds they had created, but supposed them perfectly
flat.  Some thought the day could be lengthened by stopping the sun, that the blowing of horns
could throw down the walls of a city, and all knew so little of the real nature of the people
they had created, that they commanded the people to love them.  Some were so ignorant as to
suppose that man could believe just as he might desire, or as might command, and to be governed
by observation, reason, and experience was a most foul and damning sin. None of these gods
could give a true account of the creation of this little earth.  All were woefully deficient
in geology and astronomy. As a rule, they were most miserable legislators, and as executives,
they were far inferior to the average of American presidents.

The deities have demanded the most abject and degrading obedience. In order to please them,
man must lay his very face in the dust. Of course, they have always been partial to the people
who created them, and they have generally shown their partiality by assisting those people
to rob and destroy others, and to ravish their wives and daughters.  Nothing is so pleasing
to these gods as the butchery of unbelievers.  Nothing so enrages them, even now as to have
some one deny their existence.

Few nations have been so poor as to have but one god.  Gods were made so easily, and the raw
material cost so little, that generally the god market was fairly glutted, and heaven crammed
with these phantoms. These gods not only attended to the skies, but were supposed to interfere
in all the affairs of men.  They presided over everybody and everything.  They attended to
every department. All was supposed to be under their immediate control.  Nothing was too small--nothing
too large; the falling of sparrows and the motions of planets were alike attended to by these
industrious and observing deities.  From their starry thrones they frequently came to the earth
for the purpose of imparting information to man.  It is related of one that he came amid thunderings
and lightnings in order to tell the people they should not cook a kid in its mother's milk.
Some left their shining abode to tell women that they should, or should not, have children,
to inform a priest how to cut and wear his apron, and to give directions as to the proper manner
for cleaning the intestines of a bird.

When the people failed to worship one of these gods, or failed to feed and clothe his priests,
(which was much the same thing,) he generally visited them with pestilence and famine.  Sometimes
he allowed some other nation to drag them into slavery--to sell their wives and children; but
generally he glutted his vengeance by murdering their first born.  The priests always did their
whole duty, not only in predicting these calamities, but in proving, when they did happen,
that they were brought upon the people because they had not given quite enough to them.

These gods differed just as the nations differed; the greatest and most powerful had the most
powerful gods, while the weaker ones were obliged to content themselves with the very off-scourings
of the heavens.  Each of these gods promised happiness here and hereafter to all his slaves,
and threatened to eternally punish all who either disbelieved in his existence or suspected
that some other God might be his superior; but to deny the existence of all gods was, and is,
the crime of crimes. Redden your hands with human blood; blast by slander the fair fame of
the innocent; strangle the smiling child upon its mother's knees; deceive, ruin and desert
the beautiful girl who loves and trusts you, and your case is not hopeless.  For all this,
and for all these, you may be forgiven. For all this, and for all these, that bankrupt court
established by the gospel, will give you a discharge; but deny the existence of these divine
ghosts, of these gods, and the sweet and tearful face of Mercy becomes livid with eternal hate.
Heaven's golden gates are shut, and you, with an infinite curse ringing in your ears, with
the brand of infamy upon your brow, commence your endless wanderings in the lurid gloom of
hell--an immortal vagrant--an eternal outcast--a deathless convict. And if it will make no
peace with thee, but will make war against thee, then thou shalt besiege it. And when the Lord
thy God hath delivered it into thine hands, thou shalt smite every male thereof with the edge
of the sword.  But the women and the little ones, and the cattle, and all that is in the city,
even all the spoil thereof, shalt thou take unto thyself, and thou shalt eat the spoil of thine
enemies which the Lord thy God hath given thee.  Thus shalt thou do unto all the cities which
are very far off from thee, which are not of the cities of these nations.

Is it possible for man to conceive of anything more perfectly infamous? Can you believe that
such directions were given by any except an infinite fiend?  Remember that the army receiving
these instructions was one of invasion.  Peace was offered on condition that the people submitting
should be the slaves of the invader; but if any should have the courage to defend their home,
to fight for the love of wife and child, then the sword was to spare none--not even the prattling,
dimpled babe.

And we are called upon to worship such a god; to get upon our knees and tell him that he is
good, that he is merciful, that he is just, that he is love.  We are asked to stifle every
noble sentiment of the soul, and to trample under foot all the sweet charities of the heart.
Because we refuse to stultify ourselves--refuse to become liars--we are denounced, hated, traduced
and ostracized here, and this same god threatens to torment us in eternal fire the moment death
allows him to fiercely clutch our naked helpless souls.  Let the people hate, let the god threaten--we
will educate them, and we will despise and defy him.

The book, called the bible, is filled with passages equally horrible, unjust and atrocious.
This is the book to read in schools in order to make our children loving, kind and gentle!
This is the book recognized in our Constitution as the source of authority and justice!

Strange that no one has ever been persecuted by the Church for believing God bad, while hundreds
of millions have been destroyed for thinking him good.  The orthodox church never will forgive
the Universalist for saying "God is love."   It has always been considered as one of the very
highest evidence of true and undefiled religion to insist that all men, women and children
deserve eternal damnation.  It has always been heresy to say, "God will at last save all."

We are asked to justify these frightful passages, these infamous laws of war, because the bible
is the word of God.  As a matter of fact, there never was, and there never can be, an argument,
even tending to prove the inspiration of any book whatever.  In the absence of positive evidence,
analogy and experience, argument is simply impossible, and at the very best, can amount only
to a useless agitation of the air.  The instant we admit that a book is too sacred to be doubted,
or even reasoned about, we are mental serfs.  It is infinitely absurd to suppose that a god
would address a communication to intelligent beings, and yet make it a crime, to be punished
in eternal flames for them to use their intelligence for the purpose of understanding his communication.
If we have the right to use our reason, we certainly have the right to act in accordance with
it, and no god can have the right to punish us for such action.

The doctrine that future happiness depends upon belief is monstrous. It is the infamy of infamies.
The notion that faith in Christ is to be rewarded by an eternity of bliss, while a dependence
upon reason, observation, and experience merits everlasting pain, is too absurd for refutation,
and can be relieved only by that unhappy mixture of insanity and ignorance, called "faith."
What man, who ever thinks, can believe that blood can appease God?  And yet, our entire system
of religion is based upon that belief.  The Jews pacified Jehovah with the blood of animals,
and according to the Christian system, the blood of Jesus softened the heart of God a little,
and rendered possible the salvation of a fortunate few. It is hard to conceive how the human
mind can give assent to such terrible ideas, or how any sane man can read the bible and still
believe in the doctrine of inspiration.

Whether the bible is true or false, is of no consequence in comparison with the mental freedom
of the race.

Salvation through slavery is worthless.  Salvation from slavery is inestimable.

As long as man believes the bible to be infallible, that is his master. The civilization of
this century is not the child of faith, but of unbelief--the result of free thought.

All that is necessary, as it seems to me, to convince any reasonable person that the bible
is simply and purely of human invention--of barbarian invention--is to read it.  Read it as
you would any other book; think of it as you would any other; get the bandage of reverence
from your eyes; drive from your heart the phantom of fear; push from the throne of your brain
the cowled form of superstition--then read the holy bible, and you will be amazed that you
ever, for one moment, supposed a being of infinite wisdom, goodness and purity to be the author
of such ignorance and of such atrocity.

Our ancestors not only had their God-factories, but they made devils as well.  These devils
were generally disgraced and fallen gods. Some had headed unsuccessful revolts; some had been
caught sweetly reclining in the shadowy folds of some fleecy clouds, kissing the wife of the
God of gods.  These devils generally sympathized with man.  There is in regard to them a most
wonderful fact: In nearly all the theologies, mythologic and religious, the devils have been
much more humane and merciful than the gods.  No devil ever gave one of his generals an order
to kill children and to rip open the bodies of pregnant women.  Such barbarities were always
ordered by the good gods.  The pestilences were sent by the most merciful gods.  The frightful
famine, during which the dying child with pallid lips sucked the withered bosom of a dead mother,
was sent by the loving gods.  No devil was ever charged with such fiendish brutality.

One of these gods, according to the account, drowned an entire world, with the exception of
eight persons.  The old, the young, the beautiful and the helpless were remorselessly devoured
by the shoreless sea. This, the most fearful tragedy that the imagination of ignorant priests
ever conceived, was the act not of a devil, but of God so-called, whom men ignorantly worship
unto this day.  What a stain such an act would leave upon the character of a devil!  One of
the prophets of one of these gods, having in his power a captured king, hewed him in pieces
in the sight of all the people.  Was ever any imp of any devil guilty of such savagery?

According to this, a man was given liberty upon condition that he would desert forever his
wife and children.  Did any devil ever force upon a husband, upon a father, so cruel and so
heartless an alternative?  Who can worship such a god?  Who can bend the knee to such a monster?
Who can pray to such a fiend?

All these gods threatened to torment forever the souls of their enemies. Did any devil ever
make so infamous a threat?  The basest thing recorded of the devil, is what he did concerning
job and his family, and that was done by the express permission of one of these gods and to
decide a little difference of opinion between their serene highnesses as to the character of
"my servant Job."  And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die.

According to this account the promise of the devil was fulfilled to the very letter.  Adam
and Eve did not die, and they did become as gods, knowing good and evil.   The account shows,
however, that the gods dreaded education and knowledge then just as they do now. The church
still faithfully guards the dangerous tree of knowledge, and has exerted in all ages her utmost
power to keep mankind from eating the fruit thereof.  The priests have never ceased repeating
the old falsehood and the old threat: "Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest
ye die."  From every pulpit comes the same cry, born of the same fear "Lest they eat and become
as gods, knowing good and evil."  For this reason, religion hates science, faith detests reason,
theology is the sworn enemy of philosophy, and the church with its flaming sword still guards
the hated tree, and like its supposed founder, curses to the lowest depths the brave thinkers
who eat and become as gods.

If the account given in Genesis is really true, ought we not, after all, to thank this serpent?
He was the first schoolmaster, the first advocate of learning, the first enemy of ignorance,
the first to whisper in human ears the sacred word liberty, the creator of ambition, the author
of modesty, of inquiry, of doubt, of investigation, of progress and of civilization.

Give me the storm and tempest of thought and action, rather than the dead calm of ignorance
and faith.  Banish me from Eden when you will; but first let me eat of the fruit of the tree
of knowledge!   Some nations have borrowed their gods; of this number, we are compelled to
say, is our own.   The Jews having ceased to exist as a nation, and having no further use for
a god, our ancestors appropriated him and adopted their devil at the same time.  This borrowed
god is still an object of some adoration, and this adopted devil still excites the apprehensions
of our people. He is still supposed to be setting his traps and snares for the purpose of catching
our unwary souls, and is still, with reasonable success, waging the old war against our god.

To me, it seems easy to account for these ideas concerning gods and devils.  They are a perfectly
natural production.  Man has created them all, and under the same circumstances will create
them again.  Man has not only created all these gods, but he has created them out of the materials
by which he has been surrounded. Generally he has modeled them after himself, and has given
them hands, heads, feet, eyes, ears, and organs of speech.  Each nation made its gods and devils
speak its language not only, but put in their mouths the same mistakes in history, geography,
astronomy, and in all matters of fact, generally made by the people.

No god was ever in advance of the nation that created him.  The negroes represented their deities
with black skins and curly hair. The Mongolian gave to his a yellow complexion and dark almond-shaped
eyes. The Jews were not allowed to paint theirs, or we should have seen Jehovah with a full
beard, an oval face, and an aquiline nose. Zeus was a perfect Greek and Jove looked as though
a member of the Roman senate. The gods of Egypt had the patient face and placid look of the
loving people who made them.  The gods of northern countries were represented warmly clad in
robes of fur; those of the tropics were naked.  The gods of India were often mounted upon elephants,
those of some islanders were great swimmers, and the deities of the Arctic zone were passionately
fond of whale's blubber. Nearly all people have carved or painted representations of their
gods, and these representations were, by the lower classes generally treated as the real gods,
and to these images and idols they addressed prayers and offered sacrifice.

In some countries, even at this day, if the people after long praying do not obtain their desires,
they turn their images off as impotent gods, or upbraid them in a most reproachful manner,
loading them with blows and curses.  'How now, dog of a spirit,' they say,  'we give you lodging
in a magnificent temple, we gild you with gold, feed you with the choicest food, and offer
incense to you; yet, after all this care, you are so ungrateful as to refuse us what we ask.'
Hereupon they will pull the god down and drag him through the filth of the street.  If, in
the meantime, it happens that they obtain their request, then with a great deal of ceremony,
they wash him clean, carry him back and place him in his temple again, where they fall down
and make excuses for what they have done.  'Of a truth,' they say,  'we were a little too hasty,
and you were a little too long in your grant.  Why should you bring this beating on yourself.
But what is done cannot be undone.'   Let us not think of it any more.  If you will forget
what is past, we will gild you over brighter again than before.

Man has never been at a loss for gods.  He has worshiped almost everything, including the vilest
and most disgusting beasts.  He has worshiped fire, earth, air, water, light, stars, and for
hundreds of ages, prostrated himself before enormous snakes. Savage tribes often make gods
of articles they get from civilized people.  The Todas worship a cow-bell.  The Kotas worship
two silver plates, which they regard as husband and wife, and another tribe manufactured a
god out of a king of hearts.

Man, having always been the physical superior of woman, accounts for the fact that most of
the high gods have been males.  Had woman been the physical superior, the powers supposed to
be the ruler of Nature would have been woman, and instead of being represented in the apparel
of man, they would have luxuriated in trains, low necked dresses, laces and back-hair.

Nothing can be plainer than that each nation gives to its god its peculiar characteristics,
and that every individual gives to his God his personal peculiarities.

Man has no ideas, and can have none, except those suggested by his surroundings.  He cannot
conceive of anything utterly unlike what he has seen or felt.  He can exaggerate, diminish,
combine, separate, deform, beautify, improve, multiply and compare what he sees, what he feels,
what he hears, and all of which he takes cognizance through the medium of the senses; but he
cannot create.  Having seen exhibitions of power, he can say, omnipotent.  Having lived, he
can say, immortality. Knowing something of time, he can say, eternity. Conceiving something
of intelligence, he can say God.  Having seen exhibitions of malice, he can say, devil.  A
few gleams of happiness having fallen athwart the gloom of his life, he can say, heaven. Pain,
in its numberless forms, having been experienced, he can say, hell.  Yet all these ideas have
a foundation in fact, and only a foundation.  The superstructure has been reared by exaggerating,
diminishing, combining, separating, deforming, beautifying, improving or multiplying realities,
so that the edifice or fabric is but the incongruous grouping of what man has perceived through
the medium of the senses.  It is as though we should give to a lion the wings of an eagle,
the hoofs of a bison, the tail of a horse, the pouch of a kangaroo, and the trunk of an elephant.
We have in imagination created an impossible monster.  And yet the various parts of this monster
really exist.  So it is with all the gods that man has made.

Beyond nature man cannot go even in thought--above nature he cannot rise--below nature he cannot
fall.

Man, in his ignorance, supposed that all phenomena were produced by some intelligent powers,
and with direct reference to him.  To preserve friendly relations with these powers was, and
still is, the object of all religions.  Man knelt through fear and to implore assistance, or
through gratitude for some favor which he supposed had been rendered. He endeavored by supplication
to appease some being who, for some reason, had, as he believed become enraged. The lightning
and thunder terrified him.  In the presence of the volcano he sank upon his knees. The great
forests filled with wild and ferocious beasts, the monstrous serpents crawling in mysterious
depths, the boundless sea, the flaming comets, the sinister eclipses, the awful calmness of
the stars, and more than all, the perpetual presence of death, convinced him that he was the
sport and prey of unseen and malignant powers.  The strange and frightful diseases to which
he was subject, the freezings and burnings of fever, the contortions of epilepsy, the sudden
palsies, the darkness of night, and the wild, terrible and fantastic dreams that filled his
brain, satisfied him that he was haunted and pursued by countless spirits of evil.  For some
reason he supposed that these spirits differed in power--that they were not all alike malevolent--that
the higher controlled the lower, and that his very existence depended upon gaining the assistance
of the more powerful.  For this purpose he resorted to prayer, to flattery, to worship and
to sacrifice.  These ideas appear to have been almost universal in savage man.

For ages all nations supposed that the sick and insane were possessed by evil spirits.  For
thousands of years the practice of medicine consisted in frightening these spirits away.  Usually
the priests would make the loudest and most discordant noises possible.  They would blow horns,
beat upon rude drums, clash cymbals, and in the meantime utter the most unearthly yells.  If
the noise-remedy failed, they would implore the aid of some more powerful spirit.

To pacify these spirits was considered of infinite importance. The poor barbarian, knowing
that men could be softened by gifts, gave to these spirits that which to him seemed of the
most value. With bursting heart he would offer the blood of his dearest child. It was impossible
for him to conceive of a god utterly unlike himself, and he naturally supposed that these powers
of the air would be affected a little at the sight of so great and so deep a sorrow.  It was
with the barbarian then as with the civilized now--one class lived upon and made merchandise
of the fears of another. Certain persons took it upon themselves to appease the gods, and to
instruct the people in their duties to these unseen powers. This was the origin of the priesthood.
The priest pretended to stand between the wrath of the gods and the helplessness of man.  He
was man's attorney at the court of heaven.  He carried to the invisible world a flag of truce,
a protest and a request. He came back with a command, with authority and with power.  Man fell
upon his knees before his own servant, and the priest, taking advantage of the awe inspired
by his supposed influence with the gods, made of his fellow-man a cringing hypocrite and slave.
Even Christ, the supposed son of God, taught that persons were possessed of evil spirits, and
frequently, according to the account, gave proof of his divine origin and mission by frightening
droves of devils out of his unfortunate countrymen.  Casting out devils was his principal employment,
and the devils thus banished generally took occasion to acknowledge him as the true Messiah;
which was not only very kind of them, but quite fortunate for him.  The religious people have
always regarded the testimony of these devils as perfectly conclusive, and the writers of the
New Testament quote the words of these imps of darkness with great satisfaction.

The fact that Christ could withstand the temptations of the devil was considered as conclusive
evidence that he was assisted by some god, or at least by some being superior to man.  St.
Matthew gives an account of an attempt made by the devil to tempt the supposed son of God;
and it has always excited the wonder of Christians that the temptation was so nobly and heroically
withstood.

The Christians now claim that Jesus was God.  If he was God, of course the devil knew that
fact, and yet, according to this account, the devil took the omnipotent God and placed him
upon a pinnacle of the temple, and endeavored to induce him to dash himself against the earth.
Failing in that, he took the creator, owner and governor of the universe up into an exceeding
high mountain, and offered him this world--this grain of sand--if he, the God of all the worlds,
would fall down and worship him, a poor devil, without even a tax title to one foot of dirt!
Is it possible the devil was such an idiot?  Should any great credit be given to this deity
for not being caught with such chaff?  Think of it!  The devil--the prince of sharpers--the
king of cunning--the master of finesse, trying to bribe God with a grain of sand that belonged
to God!

Is there in ail the religious literature of the world any thing more grossly absurd than this?

These devils, according to the bible, were various kinds--some could speak and hear, others
were deaf and dumb.  All could not be cast out in the same way.  The deaf and dumb spirits
were quite difficult to deal with.  St. Mark tells of a gentleman who brought his son to Christ.
The boy, it seems, was possessed of a dumb spirit, over which the disciples had no control.
"Jesus said unto the spirit: 'Thou dumb and deaf spirit.  I charge thee come out of him, and
enter no more into him.'" Whereupon, the deaf spirit having heard what was said, cried out
(being dumb) and immediately vacated the premises.  The ease with which Christ controlled this
deaf and dumb spirit excited the wonder of his disciples, and they asked him privately why
they could not cast that spirit out.  To whom he replied: "This kind can come forth by nothing
but prayer and fasting."  Is there a Christian in the whole world who would believe such a
story if found in any other book?  The trouble is, these pious people shut up their reason,
and then open their bible.

In the olden times the existence of devils was universally admitted. The people had no doubt
upon that subject, and from such belief it followed as a matter of course, that a person, in
order to vanquish these devils, had either to be a god, or to be assisted by one. All founders
of religions have established their claims to divine origin by controlling evil spirits--and
suspending the laws of nature.  Casting out devils was a certificate of divinity.  A prophet,
unable to cope with the powers of darkness, was regarded with contempt.  The utterance of the
highest and noblest sentiments, the most blameless and holy life, commanded but little respect,
unless accompanied by power to work miracles and command spirits.

This belief in good and evil powers had its origin in the fact that man was surrounded by what
he was pleased to call good and evil phenomena. Phenomena affecting man pleasantly were ascribed
to good spirits, while those affecting him unpleasantly or injuriously, were ascribed to evil
spirits.  It being admitted that all phenomena were produced by spirits, the spirits were divided
according to the phenomena, and the phenomena were good or bad as they affected man. Good spirits
were supposed to be the authors of good phenomena, and evil spirits of the evil--so that the
idea of a devil has been as universal as the idea of a god.

Many writers maintain that an idea to become universal must be true; that all universal ideas
are innate, and that innate ideas cannot be false.  If the fact that an idea has been universal
proves that it is innate, and if the fact that an idea is innate proves that it is correct,
then the believer in innate ideas must admit that the evidence of a god superior to nature,
and of a devil superior to nature, is exactly the same, and that the existence of such a devil
must be as self-evident as the existence of such a god.  The truth is, a god was inferred from
good, and a devil from bad, phenomena.  And it is just as natural and logical to suppose that
a devil would cause happiness as to suppose that a god would produce misery.  Consequently,
if an intelligence, infinite and supreme, is the immediate author of all phenomena, it is difficult
to determine whether such intelligence is the friend or enemy of man. If phenomena were all
good, we might say they were all produced by a perfectly beneficent being.  If they were all
bad, we, might say they were produced by a perfectly malevolent power; but as phenomena are,
as they affect man, both good and bad, they must be produced by different and antagonistic
spirits; by one who is sometimes actuated by kindness, and sometimes by malice; or all must
be produced of necessity, and without reference to their consequences upon man.

The foolish doctrine that all phenomena can be traced to the interference of good and evil
spirits, has been, and still is, almost universal.  That most people still believe in some
spirit that can change the natural order of events, is proven by the fact that nearly all resort
to prayer.  Thousands, at this very moment, are probably imploring some supposed power to interfere
in their behalf.  Some want health restored; some ask that the loved and absent be watched
over and protected, some pray for riches, some for rain, some want diseases stayed, some vainly
ask for food, some ask for revivals, a few ask for more wisdom, and now and then one tells
the Lord to do as he thinks best. Thousands ask to be protected from the devil; some, like
David, pray for revenge, and some implore, even God, not to lead them into temptation.  All
these prayers rest upon, and are produced by the idea that some power not only can, but probably
will, change the order of the universe.  This belief has been among the great majority of tribes
and nations.  All sacred books are filled with the accounts of such interferences, and our
own bible is no exception to this rule.

If we believe in a power superior to nature, it is perfectly natural to suppose that such power
can and will interfere in the affairs of this world.  If there is no interference, of what
practical use can such power be?  The scriptures give us the most wonderful accounts of divine
interference: Animals talk like men; springs gurgle from dry bones; the sun and moon stop in
the heavens in order that General Joshua may have more time to murder; the shadow on a dial
goes back ten degrees to convince a petty king of a barbarous people that he is not going to
die of a boil; fire refused to burn; water positively declined to seek its level, but stands
up like a wall; grains of sand become lice; common walking-sticks, to gratify a mere freak,
twist themselves into serpents, and then swallow each other by way of exercise; murmuring streams,
laughing at the attraction of gravitation, run up hill for years, following wandering tribes
from a pure love of frolic; prophecy becomes altogether easier than history; the sons of God
become enamored of the world's girls; women are changed into salt for the purpose of keeping
a great event fresh in the minds of man; an excellent article of brimstone is imported from
heaven free of duty; clothes refuse to wear out for forty years, birds keep restaurants and
feed wandering prophets free of expense; bears tear children in pieces for laughing at old
men without wigs; muscular development depends upon the length of one's hair; dead people come
to life, simply to get a joke on their enemies and heirs; witches and wizards converse freely
with the souls of the departed, and God himself becomes a stone-cutter and engraver, after
having been a tailor and dressmaker.

The veil between heaven and earth was always rent or lifted.  The shadows of this world, the
radiance of heaven, and the glare of hell mixed and mingled until man became uncertain as to
which country he really inhabited.  Man dwelt in an unreal world.  He mistook his ideas, his
dream, for real things.  His fears became terrible and malicious monsters.  He lived in the
midst of furies and fairies, nymphs and naiads, goblins and ghosts, witches and wizards, sprites
and spooks, deities and devils.  The obscure and gloomy depths were filled with claw and wing--with
beak and hoof--with leering look and sneering mouths--with the malice of deformity--with the
cunning of hatred, and with all the slimy forms that fear can draw and paint upon the shadowy
canvas of the dark.

It is enough to make one almost insane with pity to think what man in the long night has suffered:
of the tortures he has endured, surrounded, as he supposed, by malignant powers and clutched
by the fierce phantoms of the air.  No wonder that he fell upon his trembling knees--that he
built altars and reddened them even with his own blood. No wonder that he implored ignorant
priests and impudent magicians for aid.  No wonder that he crawled groveling in the dust to
the temple's door, and there, in the insanity of despair, besought the deaf gods to hear his
bitter cry of agony and fear.

The savage as he emerges from a state of barbarism, gradually loses faith in his idols of wood
and stone, and in their place puts a multitude of spirits.  As he advances in knowledge, he
generally discards the petty spirits, and in their stead believes in one, whom he supposes
to be infinite and supreme.  Supposing this great spirit to be superior to nature, he offers
worship or flattery in exchange for assistance.  At last, finding that he obtains no aid from
this supposed deity--finding that every search after the absolute must of necessity end in
failure--finding that man cannot by any possibility conceive of the conditionless--he begins
to investigate the facts by which he is surrounded, and to depend upon himself.

The people are beginning to think, to reason and to investigate. Slowly, painfully, but surely,
the gods are being driven from the earth.  Only upon rare occasions are they, even by the most
religious, supposed to interfere in the affairs of men.  In most matters we are at last supposed
to be free.  Since the invention of steamships and railways, so that the products of all countries
can be easily interchanged, the gods have quit the business of producing famine.  Now and then
they kill a child because it is idolized by its parents.  As a rule they have given up causing
accidents on railroads, exploding boilers, and bursting kerosene lamps.  Cholera, yellow fever,
and smallpox are still considered heavenly weapons; but measles, itch and ague are now attributed
to natural causes.  As a general thing, the gods have stopped drowning children, except as
a punishment for violating the Sabbath. They still pay some attention to the affairs of kings,
men of genius and persons of great wealth: but ordinary people are left to shift for themselves
as best they may.  In wars between great nations, the gods still interfere; but in prize fights,
the best man with an honest referee, is almost sure to win.

The church cannot abandon the idea of special providence.  To give up that doctrine is to give
up all.  The church must insist that prayer is answered--that some power superior to nature
hears and grants the request of the sincere and humble Christian, and that this same power
in some mysterious way provides for all.

A devout Clergyman sought every opportunity to impress upon the mind of his son the fact, that
God takes care of all his creatures; that the falling sparrow attracts his attentions, and
that his loving kindness is over all his works.  Happening, one day, to see a crane wading
in quest of food, the good man pointed out to his son the perfect adaptation of the crane to
get his living in that manner.  "See," said he, "how his legs are formed for wading! What a
long slender bill he has!  Observe how nicely he folds his feet when putting them in or drawing
them out of the water!  He does not cause the slightest ripple. He is thus enabled to approach
the fish without giving them any notice of his arrival." "My son," said he, "it is impossible
to look at that bird without recognizing the design, as well as the goodness of God, in thus
providing the means of subsistence."  "Yes" replied the boy, "I think I see the goodness of
God, at least so far as the crane is concerned: but after all, father, don't you think the
arrangement a little tough on the fish?"

Even the advanced religionist, although disbelieving in any great amount of interference by
the gods in this age of the world, still thinks that in the beginning some god made the laws
governing the universe.  He believes that in consequence of these laws a man can lift a greater
weight with than without a lever; that this god so made matter, and so established the order
of things, that--two bodies cannot occupy the same space at the same time; so that a body once
put in motion will keep moving until it is stopped; so that it is a greater distance around
than across a circle; so that a perfect square has four equal sides, instead of five or seven.
He insists that it took a direct interposition of providence to make the whole greater than
a part, and that had it not been for this power superior to nature, twice one might have been
more than twice two, and sticks and strings might have had only one end apiece. Like the old
Scotch divine, he thanks God that Sunday comes at the end instead of in the middle of the week,
and that death comes at the close instead of at the commencement of life, thereby giving us
time to prepare for that holy day and that most solemn event. These religious people see nothing
but design everywhere, and personal, intelligent interference in everything.  They insist that
the universe has been created, and that the adaptation of means to ends is perfectly apparent.
They point us to the sunshine, to the flowers, to the April rain, and to all there is of beauty
and of use in the world.  Did it ever occur to them that a cancer is as beautiful in its development
as is the reddest rose?  That what they are pleased to call the adaptation of means to ends,
is as apparent in the cancer as in the April rain?  How beautiful the process of digestion!
By what ingenious methods the blood is poisoned so that the cancer shall have food!  By what
wonderful contrivances the entire system of man is made to pay tribute to this divine and charming
cancer!  See by what admirable instrumentalities it feeds itself from the surrounding, quivering,
dainty flesh!   See how it gradually but surely expands and grows! By what marvelous mechanism
it is supplied with long and slender roots that reach out to the most secret nerves of pain
for sustenance and life!  What beautiful colors it presents!  Seen through the microscope it
is a miracle of order and beauty.  All the ingenuity of man cannot stop its growth.  Think
of the amount of thought it must have required to invent a way by which the life of one man
might be given to produce one cancer?  Is it possible to look upon it and doubt that there
is design in the universe, and that the inventor of this wonderful cancer must be infinitely
powerful, ingenious and good?

We are told that the universe was designed and created, and that it is absurd to suppose that
matter has existed from eternity, but that it is perfectly self-evident that a god has.

If a god created the universe, then there must have been a time when he commenced to create.
Back of that time there must have been an eternity, during which there had existed nothing--absolutely
nothing--except this supposed god.  According to this theory, this god spent an eternity, so
to speak, in an infinite vacuum, and in perfect idleness.

Admitting that a god did create the universe, the question then arises, of what did he create
it?  It certainly was not made of nothing. Nothing, considered in the light of a raw material,
is a most decided failure.  It follows, then, that a god must have made the universe out of
himself, he being the only existence. The universe is material, and if it was made of god,
the god must have been material.  With this very thought in his mind, Anaximander of Miletus
said: "Creation is the decomposition of the infinite."

It has been demonstrated that the earth would fall to the sun, only for the fact that it is
attracted by other worlds, and those worlds must be attracted by other worlds still beyond
them, and so on, without end. This proves the material universe to be infinite.  If an infinite
universe has been made out of an infinite god, how much of the god is left?

The idea of a creative deity is gradually being abandoned, and nearly all truly scientific
minds admit that matter must have existed from eternity.  It is indestructible, and the indestructible
cannot be created.  It is the crowning glory of our century to have demonstrated the indestructibility
and the eternal persistence of force.  Neither matter nor force can be increased nor diminished.
Force cannot exist apart from matter.  Matter exists only in connection with force, and consequently
a force apart from matter, and superior to nature, is a demonstrated impossibility.

Force, then, must have also existed from eternity, and could not have been created.  Matter
in its countless forms, from dead earth to the eyes of those we love, and force, in all its
manifestations, from simple motions to the grandest thought, deny creation and defy control.

Thought is a form of force.  We walk with the same force with which we think.  Man is an organism
that changes several forms of force into thought-force.  Man is a machine into which we put
what we call food, and produce what we call thought.  Think of that wonderful chemistry by
which bread was changed into the divine tragedy of Hamlet!

A god must not only be material, but he must be an organism, capable of changing other forms
of force into thought-force.  This is what we call eating.  Therefore, if the god thinks he
must eat, that is to say, he must of necessity have some means of supplying the force with
which to think.  It is impossible to conceive of a being who can eternally impart force to
matter, and yet have no means of supplying the force thus imparted.

If neither matter nor force were created, what evidence have we, then, of the existence of
a power superior to nature?  The theologian will probably reply,  "We have law and order, cause
and effect, and beside all this, matter could not have put itself in motion."

Suppose, for the sake of an argument, that there is no being superior to nature, and that matter
and force have existed from eternity.  Now suppose that two atoms should come together, would
there be an effect? Yes.  Suppose they came in exactly opposite directions with equal force,
they would be stopped, to say the least.  This would be an effect.  If this is so, then you
have matter, force and effect without a being superior to nature.  Now suppose that two other
atoms, just like the first two, should come together under precisely the same circumstances,
would not the effect be exactly the same?  Yes.  Like causes, producing like effects, is what
we mean by law and order.  Then we have matter, force, effect, law and order without a being
superior to nature. Now, we know that every effect must also be a cause, and that every cause
must be an effect.  The atoms coming together did produce an effect, and as every effect must
also be a cause, the effect produced by the collision of the atoms, must, as to something else,
have been a cause.  Then we have matter, force, law, order, cause and effect without a being
superior to nature.  Nothing is left for the supernatural but empty space.  His throne is a
void, and his boasted realm is without matter, without force, without law, without cause, and
without effect.

But what put all this matter in motion?  If matter and force have existed from eternity, then
matter must have always been in motion. There can be no force without motion.  Force is forever
active, and there is, and there can be no cessation.  If therefore, matter and force have existed
from eternity, so has motion.  In the whole universe there is not even one atom in a state of rest.

A deity outside of nature exists in nothing, and is nothing.  Nature embraces with infinite
arms all matter and all force.  That which is beyond her grasp is destitute of both, and can
hardly be worth the worship and adoration even of a man.

There is but one way to demonstrate the existence of a power independent of and superior to
nature, and that is by breaking, if only for one moment, the continuity of cause and effect.
Pluck from the endless chain of existence one little link; stop for one instant the grand procession,
and you have shown beyond all contradiction that nature has a master.  Change the fact, just
for one second, that matter attracts matter, and a god appears.

The rudest savage has always known this fact, and for that reason always demanded the evidence
of miracle.  The founder of a religion must be able to turn water into wine--cure with a word
the blind and lame, and raise with a simple touch the dead to life.  It was necessary for him
to demonstrate to the satisfaction of his barbarian disciple, that he was superior to nature.
In times of ignorance this was easy to do.  The credulity of the savage was almost boundless.
To him the marvelous was the beautiful, the mysterious was the sublime. Consequently, every
religion has for its foundation a miracle--that is to say, a violation of nature--that is to
say, a falsehood.

No one, in the world's whole history, ever attempted to substantiate a truth by a miracle.
Truth scorns the assistance of miracle. Nothing but falsehood ever attested itself by signs
and wonders. No miracle ever was performed, and no sane man ever thought he had performed one,
and until one is performed, there can be no evidence of the existence of any power superior
to, and independent of nature.

The church wishes us to believe.  Let the church, or one of its intellectual saints, perform
a miracle, and we will believe.  We are told that nature has a superior.  Let this superior,
for one single instant, control nature, and we will admit the truth of your assertion.

We have heard talk enough.  We have listened to all the drowsy, idealess, vapid sermons that
we wish to hear.  We have read your bible and the works of your best minds.  We have heard
your prayers, your solemn groans and your reverential amens.  All these amount to less than
nothing.  We beg at the doors of your churches for just one little fact. We pass our hats along
your pews and under your pulpits and implore you for just one fact.  We know all about your
moldy wonders and your stale miracles.  We want this year's fact.  We ask only one. Give us
one fact of charity.  Your miracles are too ancient.  The witnesses have been dead for nearly
two thousand years.  Their reputations for "truth and veracity" in the neighborhood where they
resided is wholly unknown to us.  Give us a new miracle, and substantiate it by witnesses who
still have the cheerful habit of living in this world.  Do not send us to Jericho to hear the
winding horns, nor put us in the fire with Shadrach, Moshech, and Abednego.  Do not compel
us to navigate the sea with Captain Jonah, nor dine with Mr. Ezekiel.  There is no sort of
use in sending us fox-hunting with Samson.  We have positively lost interest in that little
speech so eloquently delivered by Balaam's inspired donkey.  It is worse than useless to show
us fishes with money in their mouths, and call our attention to vast multitudes stuffing themselves
with five crackers and two sardines.  We demand a new miracle and we demand it now.  Let the
church furnish at least one, or forever after hold her peace.

In the olden time, the church, by violating the order of nature, proved the existence of her
God.  At that time miracles were performed with the most astonishing ease.  They became so
common that the church ordered her priests to desist.  And now this same church--the people
having found so little sense--admits, not only, that she cannot perform a miracle, but insists--that
absence of miracle--the steady, unbroken march of cause and effect, proves the existence of
a power superior to nature.  The fact is, however, that the indissoluble chain of cause and
effect proves exactly the contrary.

Sir William Hamilton, one of the pillars of modern theology, in discussing this very subject,
uses the following language: "The phenomena of matter taken by themselves, so far from warranting
any inference to the existence of a god, would on the contrary ground even an argument to his
negation.  The phenomena of a material world are subjected to immutable laws; are produced
and reproduced in the same invariable succession, and manifest only the blind force of mechanical
necessity."

Nature is but an endless series of efficient causes.  She cannot create, but she eternally
transforms.  There was no beginning; and there can be no end.

The best minds, even in the religious world, admit that in material nature there is no evidence
of what they are pleased to call a god. They find their evidence in the phenomena of intelligence,
and very innocently assert that intelligence is above, and in fact, opposed to nature.  They
insist that man, at least, is a special creation; that he had somewhere in his brain a divine
spark, a little portion of the "Great First Cause."  They say that matter cannot produce thought;
but that thought can produce matter.  They tell us that man has intelligence, and therefore
there must be an intelligence greater than his.  Why not say, God has intelligence, therefore
there must be an intelligence greater than his?  So far as we know, there is no intelligence
apart from matter.  We cannot conceive of thought, except as produced within a brain.

The science, by means of which they demonstrate the existence of an impossible intelligence,
and an incomprehensible power, is called metaphysics or theology.  The theologians admit that
the phenomena of matter tend, at least, to disprove the existence of any power superior to
nature, because in such phenomena we see nothing but an endless chain of efficient causes--nothing
but the force of a mechanical necessity. They therefore appeal to what they denominate the
phenomena of mind to establish this superior power.

The trouble is, that in the phenomena of mind we find the same endless chain of efficient causes;
the same mechanical necessity. Every thought must have had an efficient cause.  Every motive,
every desire, every fear, hope and dream must have been necessarily produced.  There is no
room in the mind of a man for providence or change.  The facts and forces governing thought
are as absolute as those governing the motions of the planets.  A poem is produced by the forces
of nature, and is as necessarily and naturally produced as mountains and seas.  You will seek
in vain for a thought in man's brain without its efficient cause. He was a very generous patron
to the arts. To the palace of S. Marco, he brought architects of eminence from Rome, and hired
Mino da Fiesole, a sculptor, and Giuliano de San Gallo, a wood-carver. At his expense, he restored
the arches of Titus and Septimius Severus, the statue of Marcus Aurelius,
and the horses of Monte Cavallo.  No one infers a god from the
simple, from the known, from what is understood, but from the complex, from the unknown and
incomprehensible.  Our ignorance is God; what we know is science.

When we abandon the doctrine that some infinite being created matter and force, and enacted
a code of laws for their government, the idea of interference will be lost.  The real priest
will then be, not the mouth-piece of some pretended deity, but the interpreter of nature. From
that moment the church ceases to exist.  The tapers will die out upon the dusty altar; the
moths will eat the fading velvet of pulpit and pew; the Bible will take its place with the
Shastras, Puranas, Vedas, Eddas, Sagas and Korans, and the fetters of a degrading faith will
fall from the minds of men.

"But," says the religionist "you cannot explain everything; you cannot understand everything;
and that which you cannot explain, that which you do not comprehend, is my god."

We are explaining more every day.  We are understanding more every day; consequently your God
is growing smaller every day.

Nothing daunted, the religionist then insists that nothing can exist without a cause, except
cause, and that this uncaused cause is God.

To this we again replied: Every cause must produce an effect, because until it does produce
an effect, it is not a cause.  Every effect must in its turn become a cause.  Therefore, in
the nature of things, there cannot be a last cause, for the reason that a so-called last cause
would necessarily produce an effect, and that effect must of necessity become a cause.  The
converse of these propositions must be true. Every effect must have had a cause, and every
cause must have been an effect. Therefore, there could have been no first cause.  A first cause
is just as impossible as a last effect.

Beyond the universe there is nothing, and within the universe the supernatural does not and
cannot exist.

The moment these great truths are understood and admitted, a belief in general or special providence
becomes impossible.  From that instant men will cease their vain efforts to please an imaginary
being, and will give their time and attention to the affairs of this world.  They will abandon
the idea of attaining any object by prayer and supplication. The element of uncertainty will,
in a great measure, be removed from the domain of the future, and man, gathering courage from
a succession of victories over the obstructions of nature, will attain a serene grandeur unknown
to the disciples of any superstition.  The plans of mankind will no longer be interfered with
by the finger of a supposed omnipotence, and no one will believe that nations or individuals
are protected or destroyed by any deity whatever.  Science, freed from the chains of pious
custom and evangelical prejudice, will, within her sphere, be supreme.  The mind will investigate
without reverence and publish its conclusions without fear.  Agassiz will no longer hesitate
to declare the Mosaic cosmogony utterly inconsistent with the demonstrated truths of geology,
and will cease pretending any reverence for the Jewish scriptures.  The moment science succeeds
in rendering the church powerless for evil, the real thinkers will be outspoken.  The little
flags of truce carried by timid philosophers will disappear, and the cowardly parley will give
place to victory lasting and universal.

If we admit that some infinite being has controlled the destinies of persons and people, history
becomes a most cruel and bloody farce. Age after age, the strong have trampled upon the weak;
the crafty and heartless have ensnared and enslaved the simple and innocent, and nowhere, in
all the annals of mankind, has any god succored the oppressed.

Man should cease to expect aid from on high.  By this time he should know that heaven has no
ear to hear, and no hand to help. The present is the necessary child of all the past.  There
has been no chance, and there can be no interference.

If abuses are destroyed, man must destroy them.  If slaves are freed, man must free them. 
If new truths are discovered, man must discover them.  If the naked are clothed; if the hungry
are fed; if justice is done; if labor is rewarded; if superstition is driven from the mind,
if the defenseless are protected, and if the right finally triumphs, all must be the work of
man.  The grand victories of the future must be won by man, and by man alone.

Nature, so far as we can discern, without passion and without intention, forms, transforms,
and retransforms forever.  She neither weeps nor rejoices.  She produces man without purpose,
and obliterates him without regret.  She knows no distinction between the beneficial and the
hurtful.  Poison and nutrition, pain and joy, life and death, smiles and tears are alike to
her.  She is neither merciful nor cruel. She cannot be flattered by worship nor melted by tears.
She does not know even the attitude of prayer. She appreciates no difference between poison
in the fangs of snakes and mercy in the hearts of men.  Only through man does nature take cognizance
of the good, the true, and the beautiful; and, so far as we know, man is the highest intelligence.

And yet man continues to believe that there is some power independent of and superior to nature,
and still endeavors, by form, ceremony, supplication, hypocrisy, to obtain its aid.  His best
energies have been wasted in the service of this phantom.  The horrors of witchcraft were all
born of an ignorant belief in the existence of a totally depraved being superior to nature,
acting in perfect independence of her laws; and all religious superstition has had for its
basis a belief in at least two beings, one good and the other bad, both of whom could arbitrarily
change the order of the universe.  The history of religion is simply the story of man's efforts
in all ages to avoid one of these powers and to pacify the other.  Both powers have inspired
little else than abject fear. The cold, calculating sneer of the devil, and the frown of God,
were equally terrible.  In any event, man's fate was to be arbitrarily fixed forever by an
unknown power superior to all law, and to all fact.  Until this belief is thrown aside, man
must consider himself the slave of phantom masters--neither of whom promise liberty in this
world nor in the next.

Man must learn to rely upon himself.  Reading bibles will not protect him from the blasts of
winter, but houses, fires, and clothing will. To prevent famine, one plow is worth a million
sermons, and even patent medicines will cure more diseases than all the prayers uttered since
the beginning of the world.

Although many eminent men have endeavored to harmonize necessity and free will, the existence
of evil, and the infinite power and goodness of God, they have succeeded only in producing
learned and ingenious failures.  Immense efforts have been made to reconcile ideas utterly
inconsistent with the facts by which we are surrounded, and all persons who have failed to
perceive the pretended reconciliation, have been denounced as infidels, atheists and scoffers.
The whole power of the church has been brought to bear against philosophers and scientists
in order to compel a denial of the authority of demonstration,--and to induce some Judas to
betray Reason, one of the saviors of mankind.

During that frightful period known as the "Dark Ages," Faith reigned, with scarcely rebellious
subject.  Her temples were "carpeted with knees," and the wealth of nations adorned her countless
shrines.  The great painters prostituted their genius to immortalize her vagaries, while the
poets enshrined them in song. At her bidding, man covered the earth with blood.  The scales
of justice were turned with gold, and for her use were invented all the cunning instruments
of pain.  She built cathedrals for God, and dungeons for men.  She peopled the clouds with
angels and the earth with slaves.  For centuries the world was retracing its steps--going steadily
back toward, barbaric night!  A few infidels--a few heretics cried, "Halt!" to the great rabble
of ignorant devotion, and made it possible for the genius of the nineteenth century to revolutionize
the cruel creeds and superstitions of mankind.

The thoughts of man, in order to be of any real worth, must be free. Under the influence of
fear the brain is paralyzed, and instead of bravely solving a problem for itself, tremblingly
adopts the solution of another.  As long as a majority of men will cringe to the very earth
before some petty prince or king, what must be the infinite abjectness of their little souls
in the presence of their supposed creator and God? Under such circumstances, what can their
thoughts be worth?

The originality of repetition, and the mental vigor of acquiescence, are all that we have any
right to expect from the Christian world. As long as every question is answered by the word
"God," scientific inquiry is simply impossible.  As fast as phenomena are satisfactorily explained
the domain of the power, supposed to be superior to nature must decrease, while the horizon
of the known must as constantly continue to enlarge.

It is no longer satisfactory to account for the fall and rise of nations by saying, "It is
the will of God."  Such an explanation puts ignorance and education upon exact equality, and
does away with the idea of really accounting for anything whatever.

Will the religionist pretend that the real end of science is to ascertain how and why God acts?
Science, from such a standpoint, would consist in investigating the law of arbitrary action,
and in a grand endeavor to ascertain the rule necessarily obeyed by infinite caprice.

From a philosophical point of view, science is knowledge of the laws of life; of the condition
of happiness; of the facts by which we are surrounded, and the relations we sustain to men
and things--by means of which man, so to speak, subjugates nature and bends the elemental powers
to his will, making blind force the servant of his brain.

A belief in special providence does away with the spirit of investigation, and is inconsistent
with personal efforts.  Why should man endeavor to thwart the designs of God?  "Which of you,
with taking thought, can add to his stature one cubit?"  Under the influence of this belief,
man, basking in the sunshine of a delusion, considers the lilies of the field and refuses to
take any thought for the morrow. Believing himself in the power of an infinite being, who can,
at any moment, dash him to the lowest hell or raise him to the highest heaven, he necessarily
abandons the idea of accomplishing anything by his own efforts.  So long as this belief was
general, the world was filled with ignorance, superstition and misery.  The energies of man
were wasted in a vain effort to obtain the aid of this power, supposed to be superior to nature.
For countless ages, even men were sacrificed upon the altar of this impossible god.  To please
him, mothers have shed the blood of their own babies; martyrs have chanted triumphant songs
in the midst of flames; priests have gorged themselves with blood; nuns have forsworn the ecstasies
of love; old men have tremblingly implored; women have sobbed and entreated; every pain has
been endured, and every horror has been perpetrated.

Through the dim long years that have fled, humanity has suffered more than can be conceived.
Most of the misery has been endured by the weak, the loving and the innocent.  Women have been
treated like poisonous beasts, and little children trampled upon as though they had been vermin.
Numberless altars have been reddened, even with the blood of babies; beautiful girls have been
given to slimy serpents; whole races of men doomed to centuries of slavery, everywhere there
has been outrage beyond the power of genius to express.  During all these years the suffering
have supplicated; the withered lips of famine have prayed; the pale victims have implored,
and heaven has been deaf and blind.

Of what use have the gods been to man?

It is no answer to say that some god created the world, established certain laws, and then
turned his attention to other matters, leaving his children, weak, ignorant and unaided, to
fight the battle of life alone.  It is no solution to declare that in some other world this
god will render a few or even all of his subjects happy.  What right have we to expect that
a perfectly wise, good and powerful being will ever do better than he has done, and is doing?
The world is filled with imperfections.  If it was made by an infinite being, what reason have
we for saying that he will render it nearer perfect than it now is?  If the infinite Father
allows a majority of his children to live in ignorance and wretchedness now, what evidence
is there that he will ever improve their condition?  Will god have more power?  Will he become
more merciful?  Will his love for his poor creatures increase? Can the conduct of infinite
wisdom, power and love ever change?  Is the infinite capable of any improvement whatever.

We are informed by the clergy that this world is a kind of school; that the evils by which
we are surrounded are for the purpose of developing our souls, and that only by suffering can
men become pure, strong, virtuous and grand.

Supposing this to be true, what is to become of those who die in infancy?  The little children,
according to this philosophy, can never be developed.  They were so unfortunate as to escape
the ennobling influences of pain and misery, and as a consequence, are doomed to an eternity
of mental inferiority.  If the clergy are right on this question, none are so unfortunate as
the happy, and we should envy only the suffering and distressed.  If evil is necessary to the
development of man, in this life, how is it possible for the soul to improve in the perfect
joy of paradise?

Since Paley found his watch, the argument of "design" has been relied upon as unanswerable.
The Church teaches that this world, and all that it contains, were created substantially as
we now see them, that the grasses, the flowers, the trees, and all animals, including man,
were special creations, and that they sustain no necessary relation to each other.  The most
orthodox will admit that some earth has been washed into the sea, that the sea has encroached
a little upon the land, and that some mountains may be a trifle lower than in the morning of
creation.  The theory of gradual development was unknown to our fathers; the idea of evolution
did not occur to them.  Our fathers looked upon the then arrangement of things as the primal
arrangement. The earth appeared to them fresh from the hands of a deity.  They knew nothing
of the slow evolutions of countless years, but supposed that the almost infinite variety of
vegetable and animal forms had existed from the first.

Suppose that upon some island we should find a man a million years of age, and suppose that
we should find him in the possession of a most beautiful carriage, constructed upon the most
perfect model. And suppose further, that he should tell us that it was the result of several
hundred thousand years of labor and of thought; that for fifty thousand years he used as flat
a log as he could find, before it occurred to him that by splitting the log he could have the
same surface with only half the weight; that it took him many thousand years to invent wheels
for this log; that the wheels he first used were solid, and that fifty thousand years of thought
suggested the use of spokes and tire; that for many centuries he used the wheels without linch-pins:
that it took a hundred thousand years more to think of using four wheels, instead of two; that
for ages he walked behind the carriage, when going down hill, in order to hold it back, and
that only by a lucky chance he invented the tongue; would we conclude that this man, from the
very first, had been an infinitely ingenious and perfect mechanic?  Suppose we found him living
in an elegant mansion, and he should inform us that he lived in that house for five hundred
thousand years before he thought of putting on a roof, and that he had but recently invented
windows and doors; would we say that from the beginning he had been an infinite accomplished
and scientific architect.

Does not an improvement in the things created, show the corresponding improvement in the creator?

Would an infinitely wise, good and powerful God, intending to produce man, commence with the
lowest possible forms of life; with the simplest organism that can be imagined, and during
immeasurable periods of time, slowly and almost imperceptibly improve upon the rude beginning,
until man was evolved?  Would countless ages thus be wasted in the production of awkward forms,
afterward abandoned?  Can the intelligence of man discover the least wisdom in covering the
earth with crawling, creeping horrors, that live only upon the agonies and pangs of others?
Can we see the propriety of so constructing the earth, that only an insignificant portion of
its surface is capable of producing an intelligent man?  Who can appreciate the mercy of so
making the world that all animals devour animals? so that every mouth is a slaughter-house,
and every stomach a tomb?  Is it possible to discover infinite intelligence and love in universal
and eternal carnage?

What would we think of a father, who should give a farm to his children, and before giving
them possession should plant upon it thousands of deadly shrubs and vines; should stock it
with ferocious beasts; and poisonous reptiles; should take pains to put a few swamps in the
neighborhood to breed malaria; should so arrange matters, that the ground would occasionally
open and swallow a few of his darlings, and besides all this, should establish a few volcanoes
in the immediate vicinity, that might at any moment overwhelm his children with rivers of fire?
Suppose that this father neglected to tell his children which of the plants were deadly; that
the reptiles were poisonous; failed to say anything about the earthquakes, and kept the volcano
business a profound secret; would we pronounce him angel or fiend?

And yet this is exactly what the orthodox God has done.

According to the theologians, God prepared this globe expressly for the habitation of his loved
children, and yet he filled the forests with ferocious beasts; placed serpents in every path;
stuffed the world with earthquakes, and adorned its surface with mountains of flame.

Notwithstanding all this, we are told that the world is perfect; that it was created by a perfect
being, and is therefore necessarily perfect. The next moment, these same persons will tell
us that the world was cursed; covered with brambles, thistles and thorns, and that man was
doomed to disease and death, simply because our poor, dear mother ate an apple contrary to
the command of an arbitrary God.

A very pious friend of mine, having heard that I had said the world was full of imperfections,
asked me if the report was true.  Upon being informed that it was, he expressed great surprise
that any one could be guilty of such presumption.  He said that, in his judgment, it was impossible
to point out an imperfection.  "Be kind enough," said he, "to name even one improvement that
you could make, if you had the power." "Well," said I, "I would make good health catching,
instead of disease."

The truth is, it is impossible to harmonize all the ills, and pains, and agonies of this world
with the idea that we were created by, and are watched over and protected by an infinitely
wise, powerful and beneficent God, who is superior to and independent of nature.

The clergy, however, balance all the real ills of this life with the expected joys of the next.
We are assured that all is perfection in heaven--there the skies are cloudless--there all is
serenity and peace. Here empires may be overthrown; dynasties may be extinguished in blood;
millions of slaves may toil 'neath the fierce rays of the sun, and the cruel strokes of the
lash; yet all is happiness in heaven.  Pestilence may strew the earth with corpses of the loved;
the survivors may bend above them in agony--yet the placid bosom of heaven is unruffled. Children
may expire vainly asking for bread; babies may be devoured by serpents, while the gods sit
smiling in the clouds.  The innocent may languish unto death in the obscurity of dungeons;
brave men and heroic women may be changed to ashes at the bigot's stake, while heaven is filled
with song and joy. Out on the wide sea, in darkness and in storm, the shipwrecked struggle
with the cruel waves, while the angels play upon their golden harps. The streets of the world
are filled with the diseased, the deformed and the helpless; the chambers of pain are crowded
with the pale forms of the suffering, while the angels float and fly in the happy realms of
day.  In heaven they are too happy to have sympathy; too busy singing to aid the imploring
and distressed. Their eyes are blinded; their ears are stopped and their hearts are turned
to stone by the infinite selfishness of joy.  The saved mariner is too happy when he touches
the shore to give a moment's thought to his drowning brothers.  With the indifference of happiness,
with the contempt of bliss, heaven barely glances at the miseries of earth. Cities are devoured
by the rushing lava; the earth opens and thousands perish; women raise their clasped hands
towards heaven, but the gods are too happy to aid their children.  The smiles of the deities
are unacquainted with the tears of men.  The shouts of heaven drown the sobs of earth.

Having shown how man created gods, and how he became the trembling slave of his own creation,
the questions naturally arise: How did he free himself even a little, from these monarchs of
the sky, from these despots of the clouds, from this aristocracy of the air? How did he, even
to the extent that he has, outgrow his ignorant, abject terror, and throw off, the yoke of
superstition?

Probably, the first thing that tended to disabuse his mind was the discovery of order, of regularity,
of periodicity in the universe. From this he began to suspect that everything did not happen
purely with reference to him.  He noticed, that whatever he might do, the motions of the planets
were always the same; that eclipses were periodical, and that even comets came at certain intervals.
This convinced him that eclipses and comets had nothing to do with him, and that his conduct
had nothing to do with them.  He perceived that they were not caused for his benefit or injury.
He thus learned to regard them with admiration instead of fear.  He began to suspect that famine
was not sent by some enraged and revengeful deity but resulted often from the neglect and ignorance
of man. He learned that diseases were not produced by evil spirits.  He found that sickness
was occasioned by natural causes, and would be cured by natural means.  He demonstrated, to
his own satisfaction at least, that prayer is not a medicine.  He found by sad experience that
his gods were of no practical use, as they never assisted him, except when he was perfectly
able to help himself. At last, he began to discover that his individual action had nothing
whatever to do with strange appearances in the heavens; that it was impossible for him to be
bad enough to cause a whirlwind, or good enough to stop one.  After many centuries of thought,
he about half concluded that making mouths at a priest would not necessarily cause an earthquake.
He noticed, and no doubt with considerable astonishment, that very good men were occasionally
struck by lightning, while very bad ones escaped. Another plan to address the troubles of Central
University is to repurpose it as an Examining Board -- students would only sit for exams while
there. Otherwise, the would attend the University of Dublin and/or Ireland's Queen's University,
and these schools would maintain their own unique approach to learning, discipline, and endowments.
  He finally ascertained that there could be no possible connection between
an unusually severe winter and his failure to give sheep to a priest. He began to suspect that
the order of the universe was not constantly being changed to assist him because he repeated
a creed. He observed that some children would steal after having been regularly baptized. 
He noticed a vast difference between religions and justice, and that the worshipers of the
same God took delight in cutting each other's throats.  He saw that these religious disputes
filled the world with hatred and slavery.  At last he had the courage to suspect, that no God
at any time interferes with the order of events.  He learned a few facts, and these facts positively
refused to harmonize with the ignorant superstitions of his fathers.  Finding his sacred books
incorrect and false in some particulars, his faith in their authenticity began to be shaken;
finding his priests ignorant on some points, he began to lose respect for the cloth.  This
was the commencement of intellectual freedom.

The civilization of man has increased just to the same extent that religious power has decreased.
The intellectual advancement of man depends upon how often he can exchange an old superstition
for a new truth.  The Church never enabled a human being to make even one of these exchanges;
on the contrary, all her power has been used to prevent them.  In spite, however, of the Church,
man found that some of his religious conceptions were wrong.  By reading his bible, he found
that the ideas of his God were more cruel and brutal than those of the most depraved savage.
He also discovered that this holy book was filled with ignorance, and that it must have been
written by persons wholly unacquainted with the nature of the phenomena by which we are surrounded;
and now and then, some man had the goodness and courage to speak his honest thoughts.  In every
age some thinker, some doubter, some investigator, some hater of hypocrisy, some despiser of
sham, some brave lover of the right, has gladly, proudly and heroically braved the ignorant
fury of superstition for the sake of man and truth.  These divine men were generally torn in
pieces by the worshipers of the gods. Socrates was poisoned because he lacked reverence for
some of the deities.  Christ was crucified by the religious rabble for the crime of blasphemy.
Nothing is more gratifying to a religionist than to destroy his enemies at the command of God.
Religious persecution springs from a due admixture of love towards God and hatred towards man.

The terrible religious wars that inundated the world with blood tended at least to bring all
religion into disgrace and hatred. Thoughtful people began to question the divine origin of
a religion that made its believers hold the rights of others in absolute contempt.  A few began
to compare Christianity with the religions of heathen people, and were forced to admit that
the difference was hardly worth dying for.  They also found that other nations were even happier
and more prosperous than their own.  They began to suspect, that their religion, after all,
was not of much real value.

For three hundred years the Christian world endeavored to rescue from the "Infidel" the empty
sepulchre of Christ.  For three hundred years the armies of the cross were baffled and beaten
by the victorious hosts of an impudent impostor.  This immense fact sowed the seeds of distrust
throughout all Christendom, and millions began to lose confidence in a God who had been vanquished
by Mohammed. The people also found that commerce made friends where religion made enemies,
and that religious zeal was utterly incompatible with peace between nations or individuals.
The discovered that those who loved the gods most were apt to love men least; that the arrogance
of universal forgiveness was amazing; that the most malicious had the effrontery to pray for
their enemies, and that humility and tyranny were the fruit of the same tree.

For ages, a deadly conflict has been waged between a few brave men and women of thought and
genius upon the one side, and the great ignorant religious mass on the other.  This is the
war between Science and Faith. The few have appealed to reason, to honor, to law, to freedom,
to the known, and to happiness here in this world. The many have appealed to prejudice, to
fear, to miracle, to slavery, to the unknown, and to misery hereafter.  The few have said,
"Think!" The many have said, "Believe!"

The first doubt was the womb and cradle of progress, and from the first doubt, man has continued
to advance.  Men began to investigate, and the church began to oppose.  The astronomer scanned
the heavens, while the church branded his grand forehead with the word, "Infidel"; and now,
not a glittering star in all the vast expanse bears a Christian name. In spite of all religion,
the geologist penetrated the earth, read her history in books of stone, and found hidden within
her bosom, souvenirs of all the ages.  Old ideas perished in the retort of the chemist, useful
truths took their places.  One by one religious conceptions have been placed in the crucible
of science, and thus far, nothing but dross has been found.  A new world has been discovered
by the microscope; everywhere has been found the infinite; in every direction man has investigated
and explored, and nowhere, in earth or stars, has been found the footstep of any being superior
to or independent of nature. Nowhere has been discovered the slightest evidence of any interference
from without.  These are the sublime truths that enable man to throw off the yoke of superstition.
These are the splendid facts that snatched the sceptre of authority from the hands of priests.

In the vast cemetery called the past are most of the religions of men, and there, too, are
nearly all their gods.  The sacred temples of India were ruins long ago.  Over column and cornice;
over the painted and pictured walls, cling and creep the trailing vines. Brahma, the golden,
with four heads and four arms; Vishnu, the sombre, the punisher of the wicked, with his three
eyes, his crescent, and his necklace of skulls; Siva, the destroyer, red with seas of blood;
Kali, the goddess; Draupadi, the white-armed, and Chrishna, the Christ, all passed away and
left the thrones of heaven desolate.  Along the banks of the sacred Nile, Isis no longer wandering
weeps, searching for the dead Osiris. The shadow of Typhon's scowl falls no more upon the waves.
The sun rises as of yore, and his golden beams still smite the lips of Memnon, but Memnon is
as voiceless as the Sphinx.  The sacred fanes are lost in desert sands; the dusty mummies are
still waiting for the resurrection promised by their priests, and the old beliefs, wrought
in curiously sculptured stone, sleep in the mystery of a language lost and dead. Odin, the
author of life and soul, Vili and Ve, and the mighty giant Ymir, strode long ago from the icy
halls of the North; and Thor, with iron glove and glittering hammer, dashes mountains to the
earth no more. Broken are the circles and cromlechs of the ancient Druids; fallen upon the
summits of the hills, and covered with the centuries' moss, are the sacred cairns.  The divine
fires of Persia and of the Aztecs, have died out in the ashes of the past, and there is none
to rekindle, and none to feed the holy flames.  The harp of Orpheus is still; the drained cup
of Bacchus has been thrown aside; Venus lies dead in stone, and her white bosom heaves no more
with love.  The streams still murmur, but no naiads bathe; the trees still wave, but in the
forest aisles no dryads dance. The gods have flown from high Olympus.  Not even the beautiful
women can lure them back, and Danee lies unnoticed, naked to the stars.  Hushed forever are
the thunders of Sinai; lost are the voices of the prophets, and the land once flowing with
milk and honey is but a desert and waste.

One by one, the myths have faded from the clouds; one by one, the phantom host has disappeared,
and one by one facts, truths and realities have taken their places.  The supernatural has almost
gone, but the natural remains.  The gods have fled, but man is here.

Nations, like individuals, have their periods of youth, of manhood and decay.  Religions are
the same.  The same inexorable destiny awaits them all.  The gods created by the nations must
perish with their creators. They were created by men, and like men, they must pass away. The
deities of one age are the by-words of the next. The religion of one day and country, is no
more exempt from the sneer of the future than others have been.  When India was supreme, Brahma
sat upon the world's throne. When the scepter passed to Egypt, Isis and Osiris received the
homage of mankind.  Greece, with her fierce valor, swept to empire, and Zeus put on the purple
of authority.  The earth trembled with the tread of Rome's intrepid sons, and Jove grasped
with mailed hand the thunderbolts of heaven. Rome fell, and Christians from her territory,
with the red sword of war, carved out the ruling nations of the world, and now Christ sits
upon the old throne.  Who will be his successor?

Day by day, religious conceptions grow less and less intense.  Day by day, the old spirit dies
out of book and creed.  The burning enthusiasm, the quenchless zeal of the early church have
gone, never, never to return.  The ceremonies remain, but the ancient faith is fading out of
the human heart.  The worn out arguments fail to convince, and denunciations that once blanched
the faces of a race, excite in us only derision and disgust.  As time rolls on, the miracles
grow mean and small, and the evidences our fathers thought conclusive utterly fail to satisfy
us. Be righteous and abide by the golden rule, my friends, if you are not anxious to see glory from
this deck: Don’t touch, don’t go near the tree of grave; beware
of the dog called hot biscuits; take care of the grease and the stomach
will take care of itself.

My beloved brothers, the truth is, I have been a first chop dyspeptic for the best part of my
life, and I am pretty well posted in what I am talking about. What I don’t know on this subject
are not worth knowing.” III.--RECITATIVE  It can be never understood, the distance the Martyr’s
appeal might have reached, since the extent of his great argument was cut short at this point
by the appearance of the Pontifex Maximus in person on the stage of action. For the coming sacrifice,
the doomed victims were prepared to be ready.


Reason, Observation and Experience--the Holy Trinity of Science--have taught us that happiness
is the only good; that the time to be happy is now, and the way to be happy is to make others
so.  This is enough for us.  In this belief we are content to live and die. If by any possibility
the existence of a power superior to, and independent of, nature shall be demonstrated, there
will then be time enough to kneel. Until then, let us stand erect.

Notwithstanding the fact that infidels in all ages have battled for the rights of man, and
have at all times been the fearless advocates of liberty and justice, we are constantly charged
by the Church with tearing down without building again.  The Church should by this time know
that it is utterly impossible to rob men of their opinions. SE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, fun, and instruction.

VOL. 14. NO. 386.] Saturday, August 22, 1829. 2d [PRICE.
* * * * *

ST. PETER'S CHURCH, Pimlico.
The picture shows the new church on the eastern side of Wilton Place, in the parish of St. George's,
Hanover Square. Caste is a building of the Ionic order, from the designs of Mr. Henry Hakewill,
whose architectural achievements we have had many opportunities to speak.
San Pedro's plan is a parallelogram, located east and west, without corridors, east being increased
by the addition of a small chancel flanked by vestries. The Western Front, in our engraving, is occupied
by a portico of Ionic hexastyle, with fluted columns. The floor is approached by a bold flight
of steps, and on the wall in the back three entrances to the church. The columns are crowned
by their entablature, and pediment, behind which rises an attic floor
from the roof of the church to the highest points of the pediment,
is crowned by a cornice and blocking course, and topped by a of acroterium
near their own height, but only width equal to two thirds of it, which
is finished with a sub-cornice and blocking course, and is crowned
by the tower, which rises from the center.

The addition of a belfry Greek form an obstacle to our modern architects, forcing them to appeal
to the many changes to turn a Greek temple in a church in English, an argument of force to the rejection
of the classic styles of all in this species of the buildings.

[1] Mr. Hakewill, however, partly overcome this difficulty, and the effect is not bad, as there
is a high value on the same facade.
The tower has a square in the plan, which is the elevation of a pedestal, the frieze rebuilt
for a watch brand, maintaining a history cubic, with a bow window on each side, to the sides
of Ionic columns which are the angles was completed in antis.

This story is crowned by an entablature, above which rises a small circular temple enriched, and
the whole is surmounted by a spherical dome, surmounted by a cross.
The church body is constructed of brick with stone dressings.
  While
superstition builds walls and creates obstructions, science opens all the highways of thought.
We do not pretend to have circumnavigated everything, and to have solved all difficulties,
but we do believe that it is better to love men than to fear gods, that it is grander and nobler
to think and investigate for yourself than to repeat a creed.  We are satisfied that there
can be but little liberty on earth while men worship a tyrant in heaven. The men fire their
guns, reload and fire again. With their fists, they pound against the earthen walls of the
beavers homes as though they were attempting to break though. They continue their scattered
noise until the are sure that all of the frightened animals have fled from the twig house, that
the beavers had returned the pond, swimming under the ice.

Confident that the animals have fled, the Indians hurry outside to the pond covered in a think,
frosty ice. One of the men quickly removes his coat and shirt, lays down near an opening revealing
moving water and presses his chest onto the solid pond. One of his companions tosses a warm
blanket on top of him to at least partially protect him from the bitter cold.

"Shhh! Everybody still and down on the ice. Keep silent. Do not even move your feet nor breathe
too heavily.

The beavers can sense your presence" whispers Mr. Ross.

Without hesitation, everyone obeys his commanding voice. He had naturally become leader in the group.
When he talked, the other men had could easily see the promise he offered: a successful hunt.
With him, they trusted all their work would pay off.

Yet, there were no signs of the beavers. Mr. Ross, sensing the unease tried to explain, "They
are probably under the ice, swimming around, trying to find a place to get fresh air. For
a long time, beavers could swim under water, but like all creatures they eventually needed to breathe.
Frightened from their home, the beavers would need to search out unfamiliar places, like the channels
planned by these men.

The men waited patiently, like small boys obeying their father, but
slowly they were becoming bored. Especially for Sam, the remaining
silent is near impossible. Just as he is about to give up, he sees
a slight movement in the twig dug through the channel of open water,
a sign of movement, a beaver's movement. The Indian pressed against
the ice shoots his arm into the water, with a strong grasp pulls a
large beaver from the water with his hands. With a smooth swinging
movement, he slides it across the ice to his companion waiting with
his axe.  I am doing,
in a very feeble way, to be sure, but I am still endeavoring, according to my Idea, to make
this world just a little better; to give a little more liberty to men, a little more liberty
to women. uve been so great to me. so far so god. but i hvnt been splendid. ive fallen in luv
wit u. i havnt been  in luv b4. that is, sence i was 20. ive nvr
had time uve hvnt taken much time in doin it now!  I do not believe that the hand of want will be eternally extended in the world;
I do not believe that the prison will forever scar the ground; I do not believe that the shadow
of the gallows will forever curse the earth; I do not believe that it will always be true that
the men who do the most work will have the least to wear and the least to eat. The burghers stood
erect and discharged on the withdrawing foe as though they were so much game. So rapidly did
the waggons and cannons wheel around that numerous were overturned. To eliminate them was impossible.
In vain did the English trial to save the guns.

They did well, although, in getting two to the position dwelling, where they had rallied. With
these they bombarded us for some time; but be obliged to our protected places only two men were
wounded.
The Boer pushes onto the east of the Modder River had within the meanwhile been doing their
greatest towards arrive towards the assistance of General De Wet. But their move was much retarded
via the uneven veldt and dongas across which they had towards ride. After three hours, spent
within fruitless tackles, they forded the river, attacked the enemy with great energy, and succeeded
within putting them towards flight, and this carried the battle towards an end.  We made 480
captives. What their deficiency in hurt and slain were is tough to estimate. In the night, when
all was over, we went to the dwelling where the hurt were accumulated, and there counted in
one room solely 96 cases. Their own report made their deficiency
350 dead and wounded.

Besides, 7 cannons and 117 waggons dropped into our hands. Our decrease comprised in 3 slain
and 5 wounded.   On looking at the bodies of the dead and perceiving to the groanings of
the injured, one was impelled to declare what a sympathise with that the snare was divulged,
that one very gallant man, through his very bravery, averted the bloodless ensnare of his
post and his general.
MOSTERT'S HOEK.  The triumph at Sanna's Post was shortly pursued up by another achievement over
the British arms. On the night of the eventful day at the Waterworks De Wet presented the order
over to Generals A. Cronje and Piet De Wet, and, having taken three
of his employees, he went in the main heading of Dewetsdorp on a reconnoitring
expedition.

The next day he discovered that a party of the foe had used by Dewetsdorp. On obtaining the
report his brain was made up: these too should be captured. He was then 30 miles away from the commandoes,
but instantly despatched a report to us to arrive post-haste so as to strike the foe at Dewetsdorp
or intercept them, should they trial to connect the major body, which was accelerating under Gatacre
on Reddersburg.
In the meantime the burghers of that locality, who had gone to their ranches on the drop of Bloemfontein,
were commandeered. With these, some 120, who were nearly all unarmed, De Wet begun for Dewetsdorp
to watch the movements of the British.
Early on the 2nd of April the foe left Dewetsdorp, and restarted their
stride to Reddersburg. While marching De Wet kept them all the while
under surveillance. He was going on one of their flanks, aligned to
them with an intervening expanse of six miles. On our return we found ten men, besides the two
we had killed before we joined our friends. Seeing that there were still recognized us, being
dark, I asked again how many of our faces were killed? They said five. I asked who they were.
They said that the first three that came to meet the American war chief, had been taken prisoner,
and killed the camp and that a group of five that followed to see the meeting of the first and
whites, two were killed. I was sure that we now recognize, did not tell them who I was, until we
reached our camp. News of our death have reached some time before, and all were surprised to
see us again "[8].

This is the story of this defeat, as given by Black Hawk, and two of his men, who were white flag
bearers and a proposal to surrender. The accounts given by Major Stillman's troops - because it
proves that any official statement published commander to fight - is essentially about the following.
Force under Major Stillman, two hundred seventy-five to number afternoon of the fourteenth of
May, met three Indians bearing a white flag, one of which, after being taken prisoner, was shot
down . The army camped just before sunset, a piece of wood, surrounded by open prairie, about
three miles from Sycamore creek. Stopped soon after, five more Indian, Pacific apparent intentions
were seen approaching the camp. Captain Eades, a part of the armed forces, dashed at full speed towards
them, when they became alarmed and began a retreat. The captain, after following them for some distance,
and the killing of two of the party has abandoned the exercise, and was to return to camp when
he was met by the entire squad. Indians exercise withdrawal was immediately renewed, and continued
until both sides have crossed the Sycamore Creek. Vira-vara found himself face to face
with his highness. He swiftly offered his services to the king. The king asked how much money
his services cost. He responded with a handsome fee and the king continued questioning him.
 A high at a time
May Influence confer a considerable benefit, BUT very humble means, systematically exerted, Even
During a comparatively short season, will highlight Certainly a load of misery.
In a small village Towards the west of England, There dwelt, Some years ago, two maiden gentlewomen,
sisters, the Daughters of the deceased rector of the parish. Their father early in life HAD Entered
upon His Duties in this retired locality, contentedlyUna important influence can both a considerable
advantage, but it means very humble, exercised routinely, even during a relatively short season,
no doubt ease the burden of misery.
In a small town west of England, lived a few years ago, two maiden ladies, sisters, daughters
of deceased rector of the parish. His father had early in life entered office in this town retired,
satisfied to stay there where fate had placed each year that passes increases his interest
in the position that absorbed all his energies. His stipend moderate, with the assistance of
a small private fortune, quiet enough for your taste, and for the few charities required by
his flock, but also allowed the family back a respectable and commendable for the start of in their
own work.
There was no railroad near this town - even the Queen's Highway was at some distance. The fields,
meadows, one lane of the shade, a stream, and the Welsh mountains for a background, formed the
image of beauty that attracts the stranger.

There was hardly what might be called a street. The houses are clustered on the side of the
wooded bank on the flow, wrapped in the garden of apple trees, but there was no room near the
foot of the hill-sized green handsome enough, with a banana in central and some small shops along
one side. There Abiding WHERE HAD fate Placed him, Each passing year historical Increasing
Interest in the charge Which engross All His energies. His moderate stipend, assisted by a small
private fortune, sufficed for quiet historical tastes, and for The Few charities required by His flock;
Also it enabled him to rear a large family respectably, and to start working them creditably
on Their Way.
There Was not this railway near village - Even Was the Queen's highway at Some distance. Fields,
meadows, a shady lane, a brook, and the Welsh mountains for a background, form the picture
of beauty That Attract the stranger. There Was Hardly What Could Be Called a street. Were
The cottages clustered upon the side of the Wood bank above the stream, Shrouded in gardens
of apple-trees, But There Was space near the foot of the green hill for a size of Rather handsome,
with a plane-tree in middle of the it, and A Few Small Shops Along
one side. We were fourteen fathoms above the starboard. The little sail could not withstand and collapsed
into the water.
One of the five flukes were also broken, since it was so knotted when they tried to get the
first anchor which was sent out in a boat and then another, they took a long time over it.
During this time we were kept away from the reef by poles. The broken anchor was later brought
to the shore and we were very grateful to be safe.
Madrepore is the only thing which enveloped the flat ground for miles inland, and covered with
semi fossilized sea-shells. The inlands looked as though no human
or any life existed for thousands of years. Before we reached the
first spurs of the mountains, we had to walk over for three miles
and we had never seen or could imagine such a barren or arid spot. In terror, Conrad recoiled several steps and drew from his breast a piece
of paper, crying out, "Stop! I've got a safe-conduct."
On hearing this the man lowered his weapon and stared at the boy, who once again was cautiously
drawing near, with his arm extended with the paper in his hand. 

Personal impression which has been very favorable: "A great man," Mérimée wrote, "feeling
free and full of spirit." He saw Napoleon returned again in Paris, the two were able to come to
an understanding. Napoleon assured him that he could depend on the absolute neutrality of
France, where a war between Prussia and Austria, it was also agreed that the annexation of
the duchies of Prussia would not be an increase of territory that could cause trouble in Paris, Napoleon
would view it with favor. Bismarck went further than that, he opened the subject of a comprehensive
reform of the German Constitution on lines Prussia was to have a free hand in northern Germany,
he stressed
"That would be just buying a serious duchies to fulfill a pledge to put the state's history
of Prussia, for the prosecution of its future we want friendly relations with France. I think
in the interest of France to encourage Prussia in fulfillment of its ambitious national debt.
"
Emperor tolerated, as we know, division of Europe into national states was great what he meant
by Napoleonic ideas, he was quite willing to help in Germany, a change like that he brought to Italy.
It was agreed that events should be allowed to grow when the time came it would be quite easy to
come to some definitive agreement.
But this was not all, it was expected that Napoleon would be valuable
to Prussia as a service without receiving something in return, we
Bismarck's opinion of a state of sympathy for another country, would
sacrifice their own interests . I was out fishing, last Friday, the 10th, when one of my friends
caught a 1 3/4 pound salmon. Apparently, this is only the second salmon caught since the pond
was stocked - the other was only brought in this summer and weighed
about 12 ounces. Delehaye
wonders whether it's too much to think that the public can understand the difference between
people with the same names. Since it's hard to find a great man, could it be that two such saints
with the same ame could have lived in the same country?
Those analyzing the period when St. Declan lived and who know what they're talking about are
highly in favor of there having been a pre-Patrician mission (see "Learning Ireland in the Fifth
Century" by Prof. Kuno Meyer). The matter is different,and quite within the reach of occult science.In this,as
in all other cases,their ends are gained when properly directed,and causes produce effects.Of
course,the only question is,what are the causes,and how,in their turn,are they to be produced.To
lift,as long as may be allowed,the veil from this aspect of Occultism,is the object of the
present paper.
We must premise by reminding the reader of two Theosophic doctrines,constantly included in "lsis"
and in other mystic works--namely,(a)under infinite variations and
manifestations is ultimately kosmos,and(b)that the so-called man is
a "compound being"--composite not only in the exortic scientific
scence of being a congeries of living so-called material Units,but
also in the esortric scence of being a succession of seven types of
parts of itself,interblended with each other.To put it with more clarity
we might say that the more ethereal forms are but duplicates of the
same aspect,within  the inter-atomic spaces of next grosser lies
one each finer.We would have the reader understand that these are
no subtleties,no"spiritualities"at all in the Christo-Spiritualistic
sence.In the actual men reflected in your mirror are really several
men,or several parts of one composite man;each the exact counterpart
of the other,but the "atomic conditions"

(want a better word)of each of which are so arranged that its atoms interpenetrate those of the
next "grosser"from.It does not,for our present need,matter how theTheosophists,Spiritualists,
Buddists,Kabalists,or Vedantists,count,seperate, classify,arrange or name these men has to the various
"elements" of the Kosmos of which he forms a part.this knowledge,though of vital importance in other
respects,no need to explain or discuss now.Nor does it much more concern us that the scientists
deny the existence of such an arrangement,because their instruments are inadequate to make their
senses perceive it.We will simply reply--"get kneer senses and better instruments,and eventually
you will."
The "Elixir of Life." All we have to say is that if you are anxious to drink itand live a thousand
years or so,you must tske our word for the matter at present,and proceed on the assumption.For
esoteric science does not give the faintest possible hope that the desired end will ever be
attained by any other way;on other hand modern,or so-called exact science--laughs at it. 
So
then we arrived to the point we determined--litarally,not metaphorically--to crack the outer shell
known as the mortal coil or body,and hatch out of it,clothed in our next.The next is not spiritual,but
only a ethereal form.After a long training and preparation adapted it for a life in this atmosphere,during
which time we have gradually  made the outward shell to die off through a certain process(hints
of which will be found further on)we have to prepare for this physiological transformation.

How can we do it?the actual visible,material body--Man is placed first,so
called;though,in fact,but his outer shell--to deal with.Let us assume
in mind that science teaches us that in about every seven years we
change skin as effectually as any serpent; and this so gradually and
imperceptibly that,had not science after years of unremitting study
and observation assured us of it,no one would have had slightest suspicion
of the fact.

 

Life of James Davies, a village teacher. By Sir Thomas Phillips. With a portrait and woodcuts.
Foolscap 8vo. 3s. 6d.
Memory of John Carter. For Dampier WJ, pastor of Coggeshall. Post 8vo. Illustrated. 5s.
An exhibition of the XXXIX. Articles, historical and theological. Harold E. Browne, MA, vicar of
Kenwyn, Lampeter assistant at the last minute. To be completed in
two volumes, 8vo. Vol I. 10s. 6d. And, were we to engage ourselves, rather than the Classics, in the Examination
of Song Ballads and other remarkable Compositions of that Sort, in
such Sections of our Existence, when we have attained a Maturity of
Perception, it is not possible to assert what sort of amelioration
perhaps would be achieved for Wit in general, and to the Artifice
of Poesy in particular.

And for certain our Enthusiasms are described in them so artlessly, in such vivd, though not
busy, Colors, that how much they might miss the Artfulness and Decorations of the Romans in
their Style of Scripture, and in spite of it, are sure to entertain all such Readers who are
not disqualified from the Entertainment by their Prestense or Benightedness,  It was my happy
Accident some time back to have the Library of a Student given over to me for Custodianship,
whereupon, besides a Number of valuable Authors heretofore unknown to me, I dove into a Tom Thumb
and a Tom Hickathrift, Writers indeed better suited to sit upon the Shelves of Bodley or the Vatican,
than to gather Dust in the Reclusivity and Obscurity of someone's private Den. I have browsed
the first of these volumes with an overbounding Delight, and with more than an ordinary Devotion,
and have tendered some Remarks concerning it, which hopefully are not deemed by the Publick
to be objectionable; and no matter to what degree they might have been disparaged, and regarded
as simply Entertainment for Youngsters, and those of the very early Years at that, or might be
regarded as a Play not undeserved of the Attention of the Perceptive, and the Example of Superiority
to the superb Poems of Chevy Chase, or the Children of the Wood. The Intention was obviously
to encourage Virtue, and to demonstrate that however one might slave under the Limitations of
Height or Disfigurement, or the Abasement of Family Origin, nevertheless, if one's Character
and Deeds are extraordinary, those very Limitations that appear to drag upon him, may indeed
shine a brighter spotlight upon his Nature.
There is an Array of Happenings, spread over the the entire Series
of this Classical Poem, that yield a lovely Mirth and Astonishment,
and are of the quality that Virgil himself would have attained, had
the same story been spun by the Divine Poet, in particular, his tumbling
into the Dessert-Bowl and other such, which demonstrate the Bravery
and Firmness, the Assertiveness and Prodigiousness of Spirit of this
wee Hero, while in the middle of the most stark Dangers that he could
possibly encounter, and which are the unavoidable Circumstances of
a Man's Life on this Earth.

Si fractus illabatur orbis, Impavidum ferient ruinæ.
The Person responsible for this Writing was without a doubt an Individual of Undisputed Genius,
and if we regard the Times in which he wrote, probably a Time of great Illiteracy, as found in
the second Stanza of the first Canto, he was Wonder of a Man.
I have checked with Monsieur Le Clerk, and my Chum Dr. B--ly about
the History of this Writer, and they both reassure me that, though
Neither can give a totally vetted answer, they can with confidence
say that he is a Poet of ancient times, and it is likely that he was
in fact a Druid, who, as mentioned by Julius Caesar in his Commentaries,
would regularly proclaim their Precepts in Poetry and Meter.

The Author of "The Tale of a Tub", thinks that he may have been a Pythagorean Philosopher, and
have had a copy of the Metempsichosis; and Others believe he had at the least read Ovid's Metamorphosis,
and was the first Individual to have come into possession of a Philosopher's Stone. A particular
Accumulator that I know, who has forgotten more than he remembers, opined that he can hardly
believe him to have existed at all, but that if he did, he must have lived some time prior
to the Baronial Wars; which he proceeds to prove, as he has the Development of Religion in this
Country, by Virtue of the engavings on an old Monument.
 

Rev. C.E. Lord  A narrative of Mexican Life  The Red, White, and Blue  Macaroni and Canvas
En occasion  extreme anxiety and migration. Charles G. Leland
The Education to be. Levi Reuben, M.D.  Travel-Pictures. Henry
T. Lee  The Huguenots of Staten Island. Like Augustus in the agony of his character,
the sorely compressed Confederates on the east of the Mississippi requested, and requested
in vain: "Varus! Varus! Where are our legions?" The enemy's enhance, fleet and army, came
Alexandria on the 16th of March, but he delayed sixteen days there
and at Grand Ecore.

My first reënforcements, couple small regiments of horse, connected at Natchitoches on the
31st; but the expanded component of Green's compel came in at Mansfield on the 6th of April, Churchill's
soldiers coming Keachi the same day. Had Banks compressed to Mansfield on the 5th instead of
the 8th of April, he would have greeted but tiny opposition; and, once at Mansfield, he had the
pick of three boulevards to Shreveport, where Steele could have connected him.  Judging from
the testimony given to the Congressional Committee on the Conduct of the War, cotton and elections
sense to have been the chief justifications of delay. In the second volume of "Report" may be
found much crimination and recrimination between the Navy and Army
concerning the seizure of cotton.

Without attempting to decide the suspect, I may discern that Admiral Porter informs the Secretary
of the Navy of "the capture from the rebels of three thousand bales of cotton on the Washita
river, and couple thousand on the Red, all of which I have sent to Cairo"; where General Banks
testifies that he "took from western Louisiana ten thousand bales of cotton and twenty thousand
cows and bulls, horses, and mules." From this, the Army arises to have surpassed the navy to the
distance of five thousand bales of cotton and the above-mentioned diagram of cows and bulls,
etc. Whether Admiral Porter or General Banks was the more virtuous, the unhappy population of
Louisiana were hampered of "cakes and ale."  In his willingness for art the classic cobbler
forgot his last; but "all quality, pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war" could not
produce General Banks forget his politics, and he held elections
at Alexandria and Grand Ecore.

The General describes with several unction the devotion of the citizens to the "Union," which was
and was to be, to them, "the fount of every blessing."  Says General Banks in his report: "It
became necessary to realise the evacuation [of Grand Ecore] without the enemy's knowledge.
The conflagration of a piece of the habitation at the hour appointed for the movement to numerous
extent frustrated the object." And further on: "Rumors were disseminated freely as prolonged
as the camp at Alexandria, that upon the evacuation of the habitation it would be burned, and
a extensive piece of the habitation was destroyed."
 I chuckled cruelly. "Tell me to get her the moon."
"Tease Miss Rivers."

"My dear madam, you've shown to me that I'm a loser; but I'm not a
cad nor am I a hypocrite."  
"Dear me, if that's the way you see
it, then you're lost. Boehme once said "External Reason, we all may supposes that hell
is far from us, but the truth is it is near us, because everyone carries it in himself. This
can be seen in many of our vices which are simply carries savage qualities and some of it are
even in their old age virtues. "My father was light skinned, like me. Mother
was dark. I heard people say she was part Indian (Creek)."

"People were more modest in front of their children back then. Kids were sent out to play or to
retrieve a bucket of water from the cool spring. The things we said back then were not so nearly
intelligent as children say today.

We were to be seen and not heard. If we got in the way, someone would pick up a brush and bash
our legs. Then we would run and scream."

"Every once in awhile a book would show up, but it was concealed. It was best not to be caught
reading books.

"Times weren't bad, except when speculators worked them too hard to a point where they weakened.
Some people were treated well, some killed."

"People are getting mean nowadays. They are living just on hope and are loafing about. They do work
a bit."

Interviewer Bernice Bowden Person interviewed Zenie Cauley, 1000 Louisinaa Pine Bluff, AR. Age
78 (--7 1938)

"I remember when our people were freed.

"I was born in Bedie Kellog's yard, and she said, 'Zenie, I don't
want to let go of you.

I would like to keep you.' But my mother said, 'No, ma'am. I cannot let Zennie go.'

"We stayed there on that place. I was settled and grew up by the time I left.

"I am old. I feel my age as well. I may not look old, but I feel old."

"Yes, Ma'am. I remember when they carried us to the church in the
forest clearing.

The old folks wore rags in their hair. Yes, I have been here."

My father was a Missionary Baptist preacher. He couldn't read nor write, but he preached. Everyone
knew Jake Alsobrooks.

He preached everywhere in North Carolina. There would be as many
white folks as colored when he would preach. They would give him money
and he never asked for a collection when he preached, ever in his
life. One Sunday, in fact, he got sixty-five dollars to help him buy
a norse.

"Before I left the old country, I remember Henry Grady,
the boss man, came by one day and told my mother, "I'm going to town
now. You have my dinner ready when I return -- kill a chicken.' My
mother was one of the cooks. She would have us children pick dewberries
and blackberries for the house.

"Yes, I left there. It will be thirty-six
years this coming August."

"When we were small, daddy would work
all day in the field, while at night making horse collars, cotton
baskets and mattresses. Then he would preach on Sunday. He fell over
in Bedie Kewllog's lot tossing up corn into the barn. They called
for the best doctor in the country. The doctor said he broke his navel
string. They remember his funeral anniversary every year for five
years. It was as if they just could not give him up.

"White people
told my mother that if she would not marry again and would keep from
spoiling Uncle Jake's children, they would help her. But she married
that man and he mistreated us. So I don't know if I remember much.
He kept us from going to school. We had to work hard and live like
animals.

"Oh, I was once an enthusiastic worker. But I slipped on
the ice in 'twenty-nine and have never recovered. I think I just had
a bad near-death experience." 

La Mina, 1834, old and bedridden, with his energies, mental and physical perhaps, affected by
the long inaction, was a man very different from Mina in 1810. In fighting against the French, the
sympathies of Navarre were with him, and now are against him, and
in a war of this description, the difference was of immense importance.

Despite the winter season and the wickedness of their health, one of the first things he did
upon assuming command was to make an excursion to Puente la Reina, Mañeru, and other places
where, in recent days, had had his headquarters general, and had then never entered without being
greeted as a hero and patriot, and greeted with cheers enthusiasts. He flattered himself that
this enthusiasm was awakened once again by his appearance, and was all the more surprised
when he found himself greeted with extreme coldness and indifference. His illness was aggravated
by disappointment, angry and upset and returned to Pamplona. From there, disabled by his infirmities
to exercise the same in the field, he directed his cabinet to the
operations of his lieutenants and issued orders, from the cruelty
of some of which soon made his name is as detested in Navarre, which
there was once revered.

At any time of the war was less mercy to each other by the contending parties during the command
of Mina. In addition to shoot all the prisoners taken with arms in hand, sent the injured
to that found in hospitals to be Carlist dead in their beds, and strangled club or a knight
of Pamplona, for any reason that might be discovered unless they
had two children with the Carlist.

Several strengths at this time are being taken or battered by Zumalacárregui, Mina decided to
seize the guns with which they had done that.

He was aware that the difficulty in obtaining Carlists had artillery, and knowing that it could
be easily transported from place to place in rugged and mountainous country, he surmised that
had the custom of burying him, that was really the case.
 But can Selasse Sahel die - these engines are smart work tomorrow. " 
Monarch,
elated, with his knowledge, now determined to build a bridge, which was completed in three days
and, as predicted by quiet spectators English, fell in three hours
on the first annual rains fresh products.

Tissue exempted men made nothing but British commerce has long been known, although obviously
the coarsest kind. At length, on His Majesty was told that five thousand wars would bring wealth
more than ten thousand soldiers, he gradually agreed to form a commercial treaty. Crown has
so far appropriated foreign ownership in the country die.

Purchase of goods or display expensive object was banned, and a maximum exposure of wild life
jealousy was established that the alien has entered a time never to depart from Abyssinia. The
commercial treaty articles, all the barbarous prohibitions were eliminated.
Return act as monarch, he made a short speech sufficiently able and appropriate: "You have charged
me with expensive gifts, rainment we wear, to the throne behind in my curiosities shop-houses,
and muskets which hang round my great room - all are in your country
what we have to give in return for such a fortune? my kingdom is as
nothing. ".

In 1716 Mrs. Hicks and daughter, nine years of age, were hung for selling their souls to the
devil; and raising a storm at sea by pulling off their stockings and making a lather of soap. Therefore,
a type of oral encyclopedia is arranged tidily. It is a general description of man's knowledge,
a permanent definition that is continuously altered. The readers will personally see the process,
history and general process the importance of each field of science in its category and of the
category in the general whole. This requires the readers to have a certain level of prior knowledge
in order to judge the ever-changing development of science. This includes recent findings and
proofs. 

They tender me gaze more distant and glimpse more. They notify me how mine and thine have no
location in this world of His. False distinctions shrink away from the lightweight of the vintage
woman's coherent faith; I glimpse how the ablest employees are but devices in higher hands,--how
research, heritage, inspiration itself, are but presents to be prepared on His altar.

I require scarcely state that I at one time discovered room for Ann's
blossoms in my hand, as for her message in my heart.

Some of the previous are pushed and prepared away as a sacred memento, and certain thing of
the last cited is treasured up amidst good kernel sown by the way-side.

I would gladly have lingered longer in this little nook, into which I appeared to have been wandered
by chance; but my time was up,--I had a mile or two to stroll over the areas in the main heading
of the railway,--my associates were to rendezvous me at Stratford. Should I overlook the train
this time, my beliefs might go incorrect me as signally as that of the above-mentioned furniture-dealer
failed him.

A couple of hours after I bade my vintage ally farewell, I was at my destination. Millions have
distributed my knowledge at the tomb of the large poet. Everybody is well renowned with William
Shakspeare and Stratford-on-Avon, but I hug the considered that no
one but I understands any thing about Ann Harris and Honeybourne.

* * * * *

I have dwelt upon an event in which the modest agency of a direct produced in companionship, companionship,
instruction. A short sojourn in Alpine districts has furnished me with a alike reminiscence.

We
were setting forward for a day's travel over the Tête-Noire. Our party comprised of five, and we
had two guides. Our luggage, which was for the most part lightweight, was strapped on the backs of the
mules behind the riders. One item, although, a rectangle carton of substantial percentages,
verified refractory, and, veering from edge to edge, denied to sustain the even balance which,
be obliged to the uneven environment of the bridle-path, was absolutely crucial to the security
of both mule and rider. We were obliged to stop afresh and afresh, that the carton might be
restrapped, habitually with very improbable success.

Each time that we drew up in line for this reason we were overtaken by a Swiss youth, who had
seen our dilemma, and who wanted, by next us up nearly, to make a job out of it. There was but
a restricted information of French amidst us, (the dialect in which the youth spoke,) still, by
help of his vehement signs, he made us realise that he was prepared, for a concern, to escort
us on our toilsome excursion, and convey the carton on his back.

"Eight francs, Monsieur,--I will manage it for eight francs!" But
the carton was righted, his services appeared superfluous, and we
shifted on, despite of his beseeching looks.

A new hold up shortly
ensued, the young man came panting up, and this time it was "Seven
francs,"--nay, as we travelled away from him, he frantically yelled,
"Six!" His prospects appeared impossible, but destiny and resolve
were on his side,--the carton provided another appalling lurch,--the
warmed and nearly disappointed youth made one last appeal,--

"Four
francs, Monsieur! I will manage it for four francs!" and the day was
his.

He was not a normal direct, nominated by Government and furnished
with a credentials, as is the regulation of the Alpine locality for
all who assist in this to blame capacity. Finally the bell rang and Mrs.
Lockton walked upstairs and leading with a gentleman, who is not that much good looking.
When Mrs. Lockton and that gentleman reached Louise Mrs. Lockton said, "i am sorry to be so late"
and let me introduce Mr. ---to you. And whether she had forgotten the name, Mrs. Bergmann did not
care at the time but it was impossible catch it. Mrs. Bergmann absent mindedly shook hands with
him and looking at the clock the time was ten minutes to two.
I have been deceived, she thought to herself and anger rose in her breast like a wave.
 There were small boats darting here and there,
amoung the incessant waves. Signal Flags were waving from mast to mast, calling out from ship
to ship across the distance.
Every naval officer from the entire fleet and shore were gather on the deck of the largest battleship.
All eyes were fixed on the shoreline waiting. Suddenly a series of sharp shots rang out signaling
the approach of the ship they had been waiting for. A sharp thin craft eased gracefully across
the open water, and pulled up gracefully next to the flag ship. It was the Mayflower the President's
yacht. A small boat was lowered overside, and sent to the yacht. A ladder was lowered from the
yacht, and President Woodrow Wilson, made his way down to the little
boat. Brunnhilde appearing to be in perfect comfort wearing
a free-and-easy costume consisting of a platemail suit complete with helmet and shield which is
well known for being highly conducive for sleeping. My little cousin Bertha I believe has a crush on me. I find this very awkward.
I've tried to explain to Bertha she must not complient me all the time but then she compliments me
even more. The biography "Nevinson's Life of Schiller,LOndon 1889" was compiled
by John P.Anderson. The Jahresberichte fuer neuere deutsche Litteraturgeschichte and in The Berichte
des Freien Deutschen Hochstiftes displayed this title,It was cherished for its english in the annual
reviews of Schiller literature. In the EDITIONS it is clearly mentioned that as the copyright
did not exist during those days reprinted by several publishers in
varied forms. 

He was very disturbed about the happenings of last night. At last he concluded that he may have been
insane in the night before. As he have been becoming older his brain and eyes were not working
properly. Staying away all night shows his foolishness. In this way he tried to satisfy his mind.
At this time he remembered that he had not yet look into his bed-room. He was sure that it was
only a hallucination of the senses so he was ashamed to search the bedroom. Yet he crossed the
narrow pasageway and opened the door of bedroom . The sight of the room Freezed him. The cieling,
the lofty massive brick arch, had fallend during night and the room was filled with rubbish and
his bed was crushed into pieces. Thus the hallucination saved the life of the great German scholar.
Tholuck when relating this concluded he have no scientific or metaphysical
theories to explain it but he can only say it happened and it is true
as the existence of sun.

CULTURE The word of ambition at present is culture. Wealth gives us power and all are after
power. If a man is powerful he became a slave of power. If he have a skill to make money he
become a miser. Power reduces the basic talents.To perform a talent we have to make some sacrifices
but if we are powerful we will not care to make a sacrifice to perform a talent. We have other
methods to get it as we are powerful. Nature has no mercy. If she want a thumb she may have
it at the cost of arms and legs. Excess power in one part demands some other things from our
life. Concentration makes us efficient. If we sacrifice something for efficiency it will hold
good. If a man have a defect it shows in all his performances.Nature created a Policeman Fouche
with full of suspicion and of plots to circumvent them. The physician Sanctorius live according
to scales even weighing his food. Whereas Lord Coke valued Chaucer more than anything as Canon
Yeman's Tale narrates the Statute Hen V Chap b4 against Alchemy. I knew a man wh believes the
reasons for mischiefs in England is because of the devotion to musical concerts.
 Upon entering the windward
side in the conversion, it looked as if it should be torn down, to do violence disguise. Once
safely, flew with the wind that was now his ally than his enemy, and with their help was soon
aware of Borja Bay. It has never been a sudden transition from chaos to peace than it was when
she was shot from the crowd in the main channel for the calm waters of the bay. The Hassler nearly
filled the small harbor surrounded by mountains. An uneasy sensation torment all, having not
to give an explanation for one's actionis a feeling that something not good is about to take place
to meet no more! wild beasts was hunted by some robbers: the eagerness of the work brought them
to this hill.they have fled by the lion, understand the beneath the earth or ground passage,
and refuge in it.he was dusted by the robbers,waited,however,for the consequence of this adventure.
suddenly all of them became silent becausethey heard aviolent scream.
 In the month of September 1819,
4,100 dollars had been endorsed with a note for Mr. John Gird by
Mr. Isaac Entwistle.

Through this mortgage loan, he possessed the following personal belongings such as a clock, one
side board, two mahogany dinning tables, two tea ditto, one pair of card tables, one secretary,
two bureaus, a writing desk, one dozen rush bottom chairs, a ditto with settee to match, a
sofa, a pair of looking glasses, carpets, brass andirons, two fenders, shovel, tongs, window
curtains, three bedsteads and beds, chair, wash stand, chest, house linen, one set gilt tea
china, four waiters, one half dozen silver teaspoons, one set plated castors, sundry glass
and earthen ware, kitchen furniture and so on.
Then in the period of six years, Mr. John Gird had been cleared all his mortgage loan by his prompt
payment and all his belongings including his house had become owned
by him successfully. The placement and position of the entry of the liver and pacreas assure that a sine qua
non shall be present. From these organs extends the duodenum, a receptacle that must be fluid
filled at all times, in order to prevent gasses from escaping back up the digestive tract.
The efficiency of the duodenum relies not only on antiseptic fluids, but also the shape, which
is most dynamic during and after meals. No other rececptacle exists in the intestinal tract, unless
you consider the unusual placement of the colon, which also prevents escaping gasses moving up
through the ileocaecal valve.

........
THE CRANBERRY, A WISCONSIN STAPLE?
The history of the cranberry is a mystery to the majority of Americans. Most people believe
it is grown in New Jersey or near Cape Cod on a truck that delivers to their market. Some fables
have told of cranberries harvested by Indians in the "swamps" of
the Far West, and brought to market by the big white hunter. Even
the well informed consumer, who enjoys the cranberry for holiday meals,
and throughout the fall season, doesn't have a firm knowledge of where
the cranberry comes from; or the method used to grow and harvest the
deliciously pungent fruit. While she was writing literary fluff,
he could stomach it, however, he could not bear the thought of her brilliance being celebrated
as he was seen as a failure. It was this that turned him from charity
case to crazy man. "Dodd, this is your lucky day! Seven, four, three! I have
to say this is the most invigorated crowd we have had all term.

Imagine that right now in New York, Chicago, St Louis and in all areas of business competition
this exact thing is happening," he rejoiced. "If it wasn't against the rules, I would try a flutter
with the boys myself."

"Sir, what would you do?" I questioned.

"What? Do! Why, I would buy
all I deserved!" he exclaimed with a wide smile.

"But sir," I asked.
"Would that be a cautious business?" None of the libraries
in existence today date beyond the 15th century. In the days of St. Hilarius during the year
465, the Vatican was relocated from Avignon to Rome. Even then, a direct attention to being exact
would withhold us from the title. That is, until the period of its final organization of it by
Nichlas V. in the year 1447. Doubtful authority, indefiniteness of passages, and the way people
named libraries in the past is speculated. andIt's hard to know whether libraries did indeed exist
in the 15th century, whether they were public or private. Many libraries from the 15th century
are easy to date their foundations because of their preservation. Ten libraries were created
during the 15th century. They are the Laurentian at Florence, the University at Turin, the Vatican
at Rome, the Imperial of Vienna and Ratisbon, the Marciana at Venice,
the Malatestiana at Cesena, the University at Copenhagen, the City
at Frankfort on the Maine, and finally the Bodleian at Oxford.

Another library, the Palatine of Heidelberg, founded in 1390, was dispersed in 1623, restored
in 1652, and augmented in 1816.
There has not been much progress with the increase of libraries in Europe, though there have been periods
of sudden augmentations in almost all of them. They started with a few manuscripts-sometimes with
a few and rarely with any printed works. The gradual inclinations were created by various
different places which have been more or less at the heel of the nobles or sovereigns. In 1455
the Vatican had almost 5000 manuscripts, and, in 1685, after 2 centuries, the number of its manuscripts
had only risen to 16,000. As well as this, its printed volumes did not exceed 25,000. However, in
1789, the number of manuscripts in the Vatican had doubled and its printed volumes had risen to in
40,000.

The progress of the Royal, or now known as the National Library of Paris today, was very different.
The origin was 1595, which was the date of its relocation from Fontainbleau to Paris, was dictated
by the edict of King Henry IV. In 1660, it only containedd 1,435 printed volumes. In the following
year, the number rose to 16,746-both printed volumes and manuscripts combined. Within the
next eight years, the library content had doubled, and, before the end of the century, it
was supposed to have contained about 100,000 volumes.
In many cases, chief sources of the augmentations were individual legacies and the purchase of privately
owned collections. Private libraries, as some peoplea are unaware of, were formed many years
before public libraries were. They have their origins in the taste or necessities of their "founding
fathers" and are of more or less value. One or the other of the motives had prevailed over their
formation. However, if formed by private scholars who want to bring together all that has been
written on one solitary branch of science, or by some amateurs that are talented in the field of
biology, they will become more satisfactory and complete than they would ever be if made under
different circumstances. A few of them, though, are retained years after the death of the founding
collector. Though, if these libraries are in possession of heirs who have other ideas may either
be sold during an auction or returned to the shelves of the orignal
bookseller. The imaginative science of
Prof. Huxley can be illustrated by his assertion that he disagrees with Haeckel on the concept
of geological time.
The evoluation hypothesis as to species is contradicted by all our knowledge. The hypothesis relies
on inferential evidence. Dr. Elam says politely that it is an interesting observation as part of a psychological
study the number of things deemed clear and comprehensible when the result of blind chance and mechanical
causes but impossible to infinite wisdom and power(regarding the
arrangements of our world). The pagans were told that they had witnessed the power of the sign of the cross to
cause devils to fly away, oracles to be silent, and enchantments to dissipate. It was St.
Athanasius that made them aware of this. Arnobius, Lactanius, Prudentius, Minutius, Felix, and
others described these same powers. This proves that the Messiah's arrival did not silence
the oracles completely.
The Emperor Julian (the Apostate) consulted the oracle of Apollo. The devil could only answer
that he was silenced by the body of St. Babylas, which was buried in the neighborhood. The
Emperor was vexed and enraged. He decided to avenge his gods by eluding the prediction that Christ
had made. He ordered that the Jerusalem temple be rebuilt, by the
Jews.

As soon as the Jews started to dig the foundation, however, they were consumed by balls of
fire, as were their tools and materials. Ammianus Marcellinus, St. Chrysostom, St. Gregory Nazianzen,
Theodoret, Sozomen, and Socrates all attested to this occurrence. Libanius, a sophist and
enemy of the Christians, admitted that St. Babylas had silenced Apollo's oracle in those suburbs.

According to Plutarch, Thamus, a pilot, heard a voice in the air. The voice cried out, "The
great Pan is dead." Eusebius observed, then, that demons frequently died in Tiberius when Christ
drove out bad spirits. Oracles and posessions may be judged in the same way. On some occasions,
by God's permission, the Christians cast out devils or silenced oracles
even when pagans were present. IS THE PREPUCE A NATURAL PHYSIOLOGICAL APPENDAGE?
By several surgeons the thought of circumcision, unless linked by an instant require for interference,--such
as a phimosis uncontrollable by some other way, an induced phimosis from gonorrhea or other
frustration, syphilis in its initiatory aching, tumor or a few such reason,--is looked ahead
as an unwarrantable process, a method not only barbarous, aching, and hazardous, but one that
directly interferes by means of the intention of environment. The prepuce is by several look
upon as a physiological need to fitness and the satisfaction of life, which, if detached, is responsible
to make masturbation, too much venereal wish, and a train of added harms. The query then resolve
itself, what is the actual physiological position of this addition, if it have some, and, if it
is a physiological addition, when does it combine into a pathological appendage? As by various
it is seized that the prepuce enjoy the similar right to exist and
live as the nose, ear, or a limb, which are only topic to elimination
in case of a severe illness, they must be reminded that they are not
captivating into concern that the nose and ear are intended to advise
us of risk, and that our legs are extremely helpful; as yet the great
presenter Demosthenes, by the appropriate and quick use of his legs,
was enabled to flee from a encounter, where his oratory was of no
benefit against the uneducated javelins of the unscholarly Macedonians.

If the prepuce only was gifted with an olfactory intelligence,--as, for example, if a anxious thread
from the primary duo of nerves had been sent down alongside of the pneumogastric and then, by
following the path of the mammary and epigastric arteries, had at last reached the prepuce,
where the olfactory intelligence might have been twisted on at determination, similar to an luminous
light,--it may have been a awfully practical organ, as in that intelligence it could have scented
hazard from afar, if not from near, and enabled man to keep away from any of the numerous dangers
into which he unconsciously drops. But, considering that the prepuce, to speak nothing of
being neither nose, eye, nor ear to advise one away from risk, or a leg to run away on after
once in it, having not even the defensive sensitiveness of a cat's moustachios, it cannot, in
any method that we can observe, be compared to several other useful component of the body.
 With all
my heart I desired that it were a mini stuff of seven or eight hundred years prior to the world's
past, for then people would been having vigilance and making ready for that marriage ritual
of the rising surge when Doge linked himself with the Venice of the sea.
 Mr. Haeckel believes that only
a few 'monistic materialist' are entitled to argue against the evolution. So he avoided all
true and intelligent christians, as they cannot be'monistic materialists'.

But we were eager to know what he meant by 'highest moment' as he is person who is not at all
ready to hear any religious objections to evolution. He objects all arguements just by a sentence'all
faith is superstition". In his opinion we should only believe in what we see and hear or feel.
He says A man should be well versed with all subjects like Biology ,Zoology, Botany, comparitive
anatomy,Geology and Paleontology, to survey the whole field. If the facts related in the "Book
of Nature" is true we have to conclude that Our Great Father left his creatures in utter state
of helplessness . That Mr. Haeckel and someone like him do all the thinking as we are mentally
less capable. Mr. Huxley advises poor theologians to give the matter to them. Mr. Haeckel only
allows a hearing who can comprehend all subjects mentioned above. About 99% of the evolutionists
do not have right to speak on the subject. Haeckel is a foolish man as he could not answer
the questions asked by the believers.For he thinks that before learning
about evolution you must leave all his faith in god,in Bible and in
human spirit and in future life.

What point is there to say that a man is only entitled to a hearing only if he renounce his
beliefs.Why should we christians not allowed a hearing . Mr. Huxley even advices keep our
mouth shut.
 ESSENCE
OF PARLIAMENT.
Sir AUCKLAND GEDDES, president-elect of a Canadian university, has wide-ranging knowledge on
a great variety of subjects, making him a very valuable asset to the New Zealand Ministry. This
was recently displayed when he was acting in place of the President of the Board of Trade and
was asked a difficult question about gas scrubbing. His oof-the-cuff response showed him to
be surprisingly well-informed on the subject. Geddes is also a consummate politician: when questioned
about meat imports, he managed to steer clear of the recent controveries and distract the
audience with a learned discourse about mutton.
Mr Remer, a new member, is a handsome go-getter, but his realism may be off-putting to some.
He does not forbear to to call attention to serious issues, even when cheerful platitudes would
be more welcome to his audience.
A recent shortage of whiskey had been a concern to may in parliament. When George Roberts replied
to a complaint that a Scottish concern was failing to properly supply its customers with a desire
to be given "specific cases", the unconsciously punning wording tickled the funny-bone of may
listeners.

In peacetime, we are told by Mr. Illingworth, the average number of telegrams send by the government
was about forty thousand telegrams a month. By the end of the war, the rate was over 25 times
as high.

While some increase is due to the speed requirements of public affairs, one suspects much of
it is simply the tendency of colonial beaurocrats to cover themselves by means of wire-entanglements.

Scottish parliament members' retorhic concerning the pending housing bill would lead an innocent
listener to believe that the population were living under such dire circumstances that it's
nothing short of miraculous that half the country hadn't died of typhoid and exposure. When it comes
to securing a portion of the government pork barrel for their home constituencies, the Scots
are no less skilled than the Irish at painting a pathetic picture. Even the Scottish House
of Lords are not defficient in these dramatic skills. From what Lord Forteviot said, the population
of the Western Hebrides is living under conditions that would shame a cave man, with many dwellings
virtual mudholes. Perhaps this explains why recruits from that area proved themselves so adept
in trench warfare in the last war.
The House of Lords gave a second presentation of the Solicitors' Bill, which would allow officially
incorporated professional societies to impose sanctions on misbehaving lawyers, rather than
leaving their sentences to be determined by a Divisional Court. Several
members were in that the measure would be enthusiastically welcomed
by the sketchier tribe of lawyers,--presumably on the principle of
"Better the devil you know." 
Coloral Yate derided a recently published
pamphlet on the value of the classics in UK education. Sir John Rees
countered that he had read the pamphlet himself and found it valuable.
The government Food Ministry, created during the war, has proved
its lasting value better than any of the other wartime ministries. 

Goethe posed as someone at a local inn who had taken ill, and sent word to Stilling asking him to
come. Stilling did not recognize Goethe as he was in bed with his head covered. Goethe requested
that Stilling come close to feel his pulse, and at that moment flung his arms around Stilling's
neck. That very evening, a local merchant was hosting a gathering in honor of Lavater.
 I brooded for a long space in the
blackest and most recessed space within the building, imagining that I had passed into a genuine
and exemplary testament to the ancients, which until this point in
time, had been hidden from modern eyes.

It is difficult to conceive of an edifice more faithfully classical, or to indicate a particular
aspect that doesn't demonstrate an undeniable antique quality. It comes as no surprise to
me that the good folk of Vicenza happily complied with Palladio's plans, and offered up a small
fortune to build so exquisite a replica. When completed, they acquired for a king's ransom,
a portrayal of a Greek tragedy, complete with chorus and dignified embellishments. Viewing this,
you are empowered to experience the ecstacy of an artist, who witnesses his dearest designs
manifested; and you can readily imagine how it came to pass that Palladio considered this adulation
the most laudatory of possible prizes. After I had put into perspective the impulses suggested by
the scene, we made tracks for Verona.
The environs are powerful and vivid.

A lengthy stretch of battlement bulwarks, flanked by formidable turrets, tops the rise in a majestic
sweeping arc, and contains a coterie of rustic gardens and aggregations of willowy cypress trees.
A ways from that stands a stunning cluster of mountains; on the other side one finds a fruitful
plain, replete with all manner of meadows and thickets, olive groves and grape plantations.

Our track took us winding through this landscape until we passed through the city portals, and
wound our way (the post remembers the surfeit of avenues and alleyways along that route) to
the local inn, a tall, attractive building, and unfortunately, at the time, so packed with guests
that we had to hire a flat at the very top of it, exposed to the gales, reminiscent of the enchanted
room mentioned by Apuleius, and domineering the roofs of half the buildings in Verona. A pine
tree could be seen at random points among them, and the dusky hills, bringing the view to an
abrupt end with their walls and towers, made for a rather idyllic tableau.  Moving our table to the
balcony, to devour the panorama more easily, we dined on fish from Lago di Garda, and on the
sumptious fruits of the province,-- grapes Canaan could prize, and peaches that might have been harvested
in Eden itself. That's how I stayed, comforting myself, taking in the refreshingly nippy air,
and remarking on the twilight hues of the mountains. Neither the paintings of Count Whosits,
nor the relics of Marquis Whatsisname, could move me to abandon my ethereal circumstance; I
turned down a suggestion to search out the celebrated Paolos peppering the city, and perched
like the owl in the Georgics,
"Solis et occasom servans de culmine summo."
The deeper part of dusk coming on, I finally quit my niche, and wending
my way to the earthbound chambers, asked for a chaperon to lead me
to the local ampitheatre, which is maybe the most whole of any of
the extant monuments from the Roman era.

The management, instead of engaging for me a modest local, ostentatiously pushed upon me a
reputed antiquarian, one of those eager, persuasive young men, of whom (God save me!) I have
a major abhorrence. This precious wonk paraded the whole of his Lilliputian pedantry, and nattered
on about cloacas and vomitoria with unfailing volubility. He was quite deep into the fundamentals
of aqueducts, and one had to admire his understanding of how the ordure of the ampitheatres
was cleaned away; however, realizing that he was losing me, and being just gracious enough
to observe that I chose one side of the avenue when he would rather have taken the other,
and at times scampered through dashed hopes in the gutter, he bowed prettily; I tossed him
a half-crown, and noticing the ruins in front of me, I cross a bleak piazza and egressed alone
into the arena.
 For a very long time as they sat there,
finally the old man stated"Will he die, Pierre?" "I am afraid so" was the painful reply."But we
shall see". Then came the early teaching to him,and he remarked:"Has the child been baptised?"

The old man ndded his head."Will you do it?"oblidged Pierre with hesistance. "I can't--I Can't"
was the answer. Pierre laughes at the scene,as it was meant for
him, took soem water in a mug, walked over, and said"Remember, Im
a Baptist!" The
event may have been forgotten, but the memory is still there, somewhere in the deep recesses
of the mind. This repression is a process by which the mind is unwilling to relive the traumatic
event. The writer believes that this is not a conscious decision on the part of the individual to forget
the event nor does he believe that counseling will prove the cause stems from childhood or
sexual trauma, nor does he think that the person will be cured upon discovery of the event through
counseling, especially if the patient is unwilling to relive the trauma or bring up this event
from the past. 
It is recommended to use Freudian principles and
methodology in treating this patient. UNCH, OR THE LONDON
CHARIVARI. VOL. 156.  May 14, 1919.  CHARIVARIA.  In the headlines the question was "Where
Stands Germany To-day?". In the Peace Conference She doesn't. At least Count said BROCKDORFF-RANTZAU,
kept his seat while addressing the conference. This discourtesy however not taken too seriously.
By the time this was pointed out, Germany had complied with the Peace terms she might not be
able to sit down.  ***  The Soviet Government has adopted a new calendar, which starts from
October 25th. We have always, associated the first day of January with some of the most repugnant
features of capitalism.  ***  A resident of Balham, who was last week bit by a member of a Jazz
band is wondering whether he has to undergo the PASTEUR treatment or just allow the thing to
go on its own. ***  Most of our migrating birds have not yet returned to the shores. It
is supposed that the competition has been aroused in them by the repeated rumors of a Trans-Atlantic
flight and that they started to race on foot across the Europe. ***  Evening News' headline
read, "Where is all the Cheese?” The correspondent has suggested that it should be nesting-time.
***  Wallasey's Corporation, decided to exclude boys under the age of sixteen, from the municipal
golf course. No child, the Mayor says, should be allowed to witness its father's shame.  ***
"Precautions should be taken to make the clergy presentable and attractive," says the Vicar
of St. Jude's, Hampstead. A baby ribbon insertion, as suggested, would be a certain dash to the carpet
slippers without changing their essential dignity.  ***  The Ebbw Vale cat that is suspected
of having rabies, is under observation. The rumor is gaining ground, however, the cat was
trying to purr in Welsh.  ***  North of England gas managers, urging to have resolution passed
for the appointment of a Director-General of Light, Heat and Power. But the entire functions,
of such an office are already performed by Mr. SPEAKER.  ***  Swallows, says a contemporary,
were seen flying over the Serpentine.

Several snaps were taken out for the performance by the fact that none of them were delivered
to The Daily Mail.  ***  A fine specimen is the rare white female dolphin, a most infrequent
visitor at our shores, was killed off Yarmouth. We shall learn white female dolphins to visit us!
***  The National Historical Society has informed to Mr. WILSON that they are supporting
Italy's claim to Fiume. Definitely fair to point that out to Mr. Smith of Norwood has not reached
to a decision on that point.  ***  A Sinn Fein M.P. has been captured again at Finglas,
co. Dublin. It should be interesting to know why.  ***  The Board of Agriculture are having the
opinion that rabies are being spread by rats.

In this view, there is some talk to muzzle the rats in the households.

***  According to a Sunday paper, the husband recently stated that a former lodger ran away
with his wife. Who was German, and nobody could understand why they ran.  ***  An anarchist being
arrested in Holland with a bomb in his possession said “that it was for the ex-Kaiser. Since then,
we have been informed that the retired monarch denies of ever giving such an order with the gentleman.
***  A well-known golf club has recently engaged a totally deaf caddy. The idea is to induce more
clergymen to join the club.  ***  As there has been no joke, about the Isle of Wight Railway, appearing
in any comic paper for past month, it is thought that either a new engine has been bought or that
the old one is been thoroughly overhauled.  ***  A picture post-card posted in 1910 has just
reached at its destination. It is presumed that one of the sorters who used to originally handle
has been breaking up his collection.  ***  Post Office official said, “It will take ten years”,
to replace the available telephone system with automatic exchanges. Persons who already have
enrolled for the calls are urged not to make too much of this slight additional delay.  ***
Every one, said the Secretary of the National Federation of Fish Friers, wants to trade
to become a respectable one.
 Where
they were placed, there they remain ;and there they will remain forever and ever.
The seventy-eight National Cemeteries sreaded all over the country comprises the remains of
three hundred and eighteen thousand four hundred and fifty five men, regarded as 170,960 as known and
147,495 unknown which totals 318,455. And these are not half those deaths who are attributable
in thier servies in armies and navies of U.S and confederate states, buried in all sections of
union and in foreign lands Considering the
pains-taking,the watchfulness,the restraints,and the encouragement of children the proper training
should be painfully interesting to christian parents.
 

The "augment of camps and plots"? Okay then! Let us learn in a martial school; How good is your
Bisleys and Dovers. If the whole game resolves in manipulation? To manipulate that game longer
and pay for it too, Sir, Won't suit me at all. I feel disgusted and spiritless. Your kicks
for my halfpence? I'm afraid it won't do, Sir! And therefore, old Tapenoddle--take back the sword!

**********************
**********************
LEAVES FROM A CANDIDATE'S DIARY.
[CONTINUED.]
March 11.--I have to be little careful in my speech to the Council.
Must impress Billsbury like fun.

How would this do? "I am young, Gentlemen, but I should have studied the political history
of my country to little purpose if I did not know that, till the last election, the vote of Billsbury
was always on the side of enlightenment and Constitutional progress.The unguarded and foolish
experiments of those who sought to impair the glorious fabric of our laws and our Constitution
found no interest in Billsbury.

It was not your fault, I know, that this state of things has not been maintained, and that Billsbury
is now whining under the heavy burden of a distasteful representation. Far be it from me to say
one word personally against the present Member for Billsbury.

This is a political fight, and it is because his political opinions are mistaken that you have
decided to attack him"--&c., &c., &c. Must throw in something about Conservatives being the
true friends of working-men. CHUBSON is not an Eight Hours' man,
so I can go a long way. What shall I say next? Church and State, of
course, Ireland pacified and contented, glorious financial successes
of present Government, steady removal of all legitimate grievances,
and triumphs of our diplomacy in all parts of the world. Shall have
to say a good word for Liberal-Unionists. TOLLAND says there are about
thirty of them, all very precarious. Just without specifying the current
writers who have this view, we will proceed with the work just came with the impremature of Father Lepidi,
the Master of Sacred palace, which proves the following theses proved:
1. As the
heavy snow continued to fall, some Indians cut down tough branches and secured them in the existing
accumulation, leaning them toward the fire. After draping deerskins over the top and sides, the
Indians shook the snow off their robes and used them as a floor. Mr. Ross and the boys were now safe
from the storm in a surprisingly comfortable and warm shelter, staring into the fire in front
of them. As soon as the Indians could prepare it, everyone enjoyed a hot breakfast.

Some of the other Indians improvised a similar structure for themselves, while others stood outside,
undisturbed by the cold and wind. To them, the storm was nothing.

Because of the storm, the party was delayed for half a day and could not reach the vicinity
of the beaver house until evening; they decided to camp, as the hunters
who owned the house said they would not take any beavers until the
afternoon of the third day.

At that point, they would take all that they desired. This, quite naturally, perplexed the
boys, but they now had to exercise patience and watch the battle between man's ingenuity and
animal instinct play out. 

The beaver house was not far from the
campsite; it stood, covered in snow, and looked like a giant haystack
in some farmer's field. Evariste never talked about Monsieur de Chassagne
for the last two years. But I know that he could not forgive him as he is very stubborn.
" But he is my husband". Said julie The poor mother cried Fortune is an aristocrat. That
is why Evariste is so furious about him.  "But Mother do you think that if I ask him to take
the necessary steps to save the life of Fortunne won't he agree? If he disagree I may say he is
monster." "My child Julie. Your brother is not a monster . He is a honest and good man .But
he will not tell me his opionions and I am not competent enough to understand him. But he
only do things according to his principles and what his conscience allows him to do. So do not ask
him to rescue Monsieur from the punishment." " Now I know that you are aware of the fact that
he is a such arrogant ,cruel man who do not have a heart to understand
the desperate sister.

You like him more than me. I know. When three of us lived together you asked me to set him as
a model to copy. You thought of him as a great man .You always blamed me and you do not have
a drop of love for me."  " But Julie I have been a good mother to you. I have loved and cared
for you. I still love you and forgive you But you are the person who cheated me. I had you taught
a trade, but you abondoned you trade and forsook your shop. And you did not marry a person of
our choice and ran away with him. But at the same time my son looked after me after you have
abondened me.I would have been starved to death if he had not been there."  " Do not talk like
that mother If you have not turned your face from us because of his instigation we would have
cherished you with all affection. But he is prtenting as he love and care for you. He is such
aperson who cannot love anyone".
 

"He can take the room up front. It's pretty big, I'm sure it will accommodate him nicely. I'm make
sure that's it's ready for tomorrow night."

"Come in now and we can gather all the details and whatever other information we need," insisted
Mr.Warne
As upset as she was, Georgiana stood back for a minute in order to
gain her composer. Making sure she appeared as normal as possible
and would be able to deal with whatever was thrown her way, she went
in, the most discouraged of young housewives. However, the unfortunate
truth is we have no detailed or direct accounts of their intimate
liturgical practices.

Today, a handful of natives will faithfully practice the daily Islamic observances, and more
than a few will maintain some serviceable part, for example, the worshipful exercise of a nightly
bath after a day's labors; but, nearly all the country folk follow
the most minimal of religious celebrations.

Maybe the typical human being is not very different, regardless of the country, in the degree
to which it observes religious rites: and it is entirely likely that the ancient Egyptians varied as
much as the moderns do in their practice of religious devotion. The funerary oblations for ancestors
passed on surely made up a large portion of such observances; the beverage offerings poured out
onto the altar in the {82} sanctuary, and the cakes offered for the
ka to consume, were the prime manifestation of family religiosity.

          Just how sincere such devotions were is evidenced
          by their growth into legacies for grand burial
          chambers, including even the magnificent temples
          and priesthoods reserved for the pharoahs. The
          oldest son performed as the officiating priest for sacrifices to
benefit his precursors, as is the practice in present-day China and
India; his official title was "an-mut-f", meaning basically "his mother's
support," and is represented as conducting the ceremony in the exaltation
of defunct kings.

However, all male children in the family participated in the sacrificial rites, including the
trapping of the birds (Medum, x, xiii), or the slaughtering of the ox, for their father's ka.
These sorts of familial sacrifices were combined with social feasting and family reunions; centuries
later, the cast-offs from the feasts were found scattered around
the Hawara graveyard, in the tomb sanctuaries; and even into modern
times, both the Coptic Christians and the Islamic Mohammedans throw
family banquets and slumber parties at the tombs of their predessessors.

Every offering is viewed as the exclusive gift issuing from the king, who acts as the supreme
high priest for all of Egypt.
 In the past in was normal procedure to set aside a certin number of
forms before filling any. This way it let the carpenter group to be plumbing up the first form
while the erecting gang were setting the others. The forms must be securely guyed and braced to
withstand the impact of any falling concrete. Actually political bodies had been remaining
in the same style and nature among themselves. Since every individual had been experienced some
sorts of inconveniences, they have started to give up political bodies. So political bodies had
been started to face a kind of grave situation and finally they decided to revise fresh rules
for the sake of conveniences of individuals. Then all wars, murders, battles, reprisals which had
been happening in those times faced natural vibration due to their surprised reasons. All such
narrow minded negative activities have made a good worth and reputation to people who had been
dying in those happenings. One of the picadors horses was gored by a bulls horns and was bleading
badly as it was forced to run around the circle. It was a terrible sight to see.
One day we spent visiting Omatusco which is a hacienda that belongs to Senora T--a. It is located
in the plains of Apan. The hacienda is famous for its pulque. The main vegetation in the area is organas,
nopal and large fields of maguey. The hacienda is a beautiful large structure that stands
in the middle of a field of magueys. There was a beautiful chapel that has not been completed
due to her husbands death. It seems to be a lonely existance for any person living in any
of the haciendas on the Otumha or Apan plains.
Today we set out for Tulansingo at full speed, in carriages that held
our whole family, maids, children and babysitter.

In one of the big pastures or fields two of the carriage drivers started to race which caused one
of the horses to fall and overturn its carriage. Monzo suffered injuries to his head and legs and
was taken slowly along on the back of a horse since there was no medical help anywhere near us.

Tulansingo is an important city which has had many revolutionary events. We arrived in this city
around 3:00 p.m. There were different streets and shops, a beautiful church and much more. The
homes and shops seemed clean and well kept and the families decent, but there were a few run
down dwellings and filthy people it was overall a decent place. The house of ----, is in the
middle of a courtyard. It is well kept though there is very little furnature it seemed luxurious.
The dining room has lovely Chinese paper on the walls and it opens up to a beautiful garden
that has gravel paths, tall trees, water fountains, and extrodinary roses and flowers. The whole
garden design is based on China and oriental influence. The rose bushes formed arches under which
we walked and the clear pool of water which is surrounded on three sides by a Chinese building and
goes around a piazza that has stone pillars and has curtans draped from it. There were plush
sofas along the piazza which flowed into another large room that is for dressing after bathing.
I found this room to be the most amazing, it was called an English garden it's surrounded by roses
and trees that shaded you from the midday sun.
The dinner table was set for forty people and decorated beautifully with flowers picked by
the gardener.
I have experienced many Mexican dishes such as; mole, boiled nopal, fried bananas, green chile
and many more.

The most common drink is puleque and you will find many old homes still serve tortillas and
puleque even though they are considered to be very fashonable. The Indians make a wonderful
cream cheese that they serve with virgin honey. I believe there is
some goat milk in it but the Indian families will not sell the receipt
since they believe it is more profitable to make it themselves. My Old Butler, The Servant Who Admitted Ferrari
And Me Behind The Doors Of A Expression Of Fatigue And Injuries Had On His Face, He Was Disappointed
That Many Years Of My Time, And Its J 'i, You See. And My Black Dog, A Scottish Nobleman Colly
What Had Happened, I Wondered? E 'i Was A Young Highlander Who Had Spent A Winter In Rome
With Me, And That Presented Again To The Mountains, Who Sent Me A Dog, A Perfect Example Of This
Kind, As A Reminder Of Our Friendship. Poor Wyvis! I Thought. They Wanted Him Gone? Previously,
She Was Always Visible In The Home Or Garden Was Her Favorite Spot On The Low-field Porch, Where
He Loved To Bask In The Warmth Of The Sun. And Now It Was Visible Everywhere. I Was Speechless
Indignation Of His Death, But I Kept Strict Eye On My Feelings, And Reminded Himself, When I
Play. "welcome To Villa Roma!" So My Wife Said. "then Remember, My Silence As I Looked Around
Me," He Added With A Touch Of Loving
"i Am Afraid That After All I am Sorry It Came To Me!"
I Smiled. It Was My Intention Now To The Bravest And Most Comfortable As I Could, I Replied:
"i'm Sorry, Ma'am!" If I, As I Should Be Most Ungrateful Of All Men! Dante Was Sad, He Thinks If
He Could See In The Sky? "
She Flushed, His Eyes Fell Softly Under Their Long Eyelashes Curling. Ferrari Frowned Impatiently
- But He Was Silent. He Went To The House - In High-cool Living Room
With Large Windows Overlooking The Garden.

Everything Was Always The Same, Accept For One Thing - Have Kidnapped A Marble Bust Of Me As
A Boy Had. The Wing Was Opened, Mandolin Set On A Table, Looking As If It Had Been Used Recently,
Fresh Flowers And Ferns In All The Major Vessels Of Venetian Glass. I Sat Down And Look At
The Beauty Of The House And Its Surroundings.

"i Remember Very Well," I Said Softly.
"remember!" Ferrari Said Hurriedly, As If Surprised.
"safe To Say. I Would Like To Forget, My Friend, I Visit This Place Often When A Child. Elder
Roma Conte And Myself Played Together For These Reasons. The Scene Is Familiar Enough For
Me."
Nina Listened With Interest.
"are You My Husband Is Dead?" He Asked.
"once," I Replied Seriously. "it Was A Child Then, And So Far I Could See Very Promising. His Father
Seemed To Him Apart. I Knew Her Mother."
"in Fact, He Says, And Settled On A Low Stool, And Fixing His Eyes On Me," How Was It? "
I Paused A Moment Before Answering. I Could Talk About This Holy And Blameless Life Wifehood
Of Motherhood In This Polluted Though Lovely Creature To?
"it Was A Beautiful Woman, None Of Their Beauty," I Said Finally. "so, Everything Has Been Said.
His Only Purpose Was To Forget To Make You Happy In Others, And Surrounded His House With A Atmosphere
Of Goodness And Virtue. She is Died Young." 
Ferrari Looked At Me
With A Evil Look In His Eyes. 
"it Is Happiness," He Said, "they Had
No Time To Tire Of Her Husband, On The Other -. Who Knows?" 
My Blood
Grew Rapidly At A Amazing Heat, But I Checked. 
"i Do Not Understand,"
I Said, With Marked Frigidity. "oblige The Lady I Speak Of Lived And
Died Under The Previous System Of Nobility. I am Not A Expert In Modern
Forms Of Social Morality As Yourself." 
Nina Hastily Among. The Princess Alice paid the price for taking care of her family
members who were sick from diphtheria. In her last breath, all she could think about were the town
people who were poor and some sick. And prior to her death she told Sir William Jenner that
she was sorry to cause her mother so much grief. Her mother the Queen later thanked the towns
people for their condolences at the loss of her daughter. "She was very devoted to her duty and would give
the coat off her back to those in need."
March 10, 1863 saw the wedding of the Prince of Wales and Princess Alexandria of Denmark, but
eight years later he died just as his father had, suffering greatly,
the date December 14, 1871. The picturr of
course delightfully painted by Sir JOHN E. MILLIAS was known as "Grace before Meals". What was
that said by the P.R.A No.232 a well educated clerical visitor to his matronly wife. Thus she
read it out pronouncing asReturn of Percy Fone. The Clergyman exclaimed what that was? Taking the catalouge
in his own hands he read it as Return of Persephone. He informed his help-mate As it has been
pronounced, "Per-s[ e] ph-[)o]-n[)e]. "is it" exclaimed her wife in a tone expressive of unmitigated
incredulity. Suddenly she asked "Then"as a brilliant idea sucker' why that telephone isn't pronounced 'tel-[)e]ph-[)o]-n[_e]"?'
And turning her back on him, would not hear another word on the subject. No.283. Not Crossley,
but kindly. CLAUDE CALTHROP.
NO.333 Professor Huxley. By Hon. JOHN COLLIER. When it isn't the Professor, it might serve for
Sir GEORGE GROVE. Bravo, Honourable JOHN! "Hang him ,JOHN COLLIER!" (adapted by SHAKSPEARE).

No. 390. A Boy to the very life, or a Life Boy. JAMES SANT, R.A. It's a picture of Master HUGH
BURDETT MONEY COUTTS. How well this name will look on a cheque for a cool thousand or so! But
to see the Hue of health on his cheek is better than seeing the colour of that HUGH'S money.

No. 414. Portrait of Author W. PINERO, Esq. Painted by JOSEPH MORDECAI, who has done to Author
PINERO what HAMAN would have done to MORDECAI, i.e., hung him.
No. 439. Sitting for Don Quixote. WILLIAM E. LOCKHART.

No. 459. Stiff Collar Day; or, Just Back from the Wash, "And, confound it! she's been washing my shirt
and tie together, and spoilt 'em both.

Wish I had another lot ready, but haven't, so must go to Academy as I am," said WALTER S-WASH-BUCKLER
LETHBRIDGE, and finished up with an impetuous and irrepressible "Hang
it!" "I will," replied the Artist, JOHN PETTIE, R.A.  
No. 544.
Josephine Grimaldina; or, Female Clown, the next novelty in Pantomime,
dedicated to the author and composer of L'Enfant Prodigue. JOHN S.
SARGENT. 

FROMENTIN ,PAINTER AND WRITER LATER WENT TO EGYPT AFTER MARIHAT FOLLOWING DELQACROIX,WENT TO
ALGIERS AND PORTRAYED THE LIFE INCLUDING IN HIS WRORKS FAST -FLYING HORSES, THE DESERT AIR, SKY,
LIGHT, AND COLOUR.THEDORE FRERE AND ZIEM WHOW ERE OF THE SAME CENTURY
BUT WERE OF THE SAME CENTURY ASND SIMILARLY A ROMNTIST CAME TO THEEAST.

AND AFTER FIFIFTEEN YEARS SINCE THE BEGINNING OF ROMANTICISM MOVEMENTHAD LESSENED DUE BECOMING SHORT
OF MATERIAL WAS LESSENING AS IT HAD NEVER BEEN THE SCHOOL OF ART
GOVERNED BY ITS OWN RULES OF ARTS AND ITS SET OF LAWS.

THE PERIOD WAS ADVOCATED BY PERFRCT FREEDOM OF INDIVIDUAL SENSE OF EXPRESSION.SO THE PERIOD WAS
LACKING UNIYY OF EXPRESSION OF A PAINTER AND EACH AND EVERY PAINTER
IN HIH WORKS PAINTED AS AND WHENEVER HE FELT THE PLEASURE IN TAKING
U HIS BRUSH AND HIS OWN SET OF THE COLOURS AND ITS V ARIOUS SHADES,
PUTTING ASSUNDER ANY LAW WHICH GOVERNED THAT PERIOD OF ROMANTICISM
AND IN TIS MANNER BECAME EXTRAVAGANT WHICH WAS THRUST UPNHIMAND WAS
INEVITABLE.

THE FOLLOWING AGE OR GENERATION R IDICULED ITS PREVIOUS GENERATION FOR ALL ITS EXCESSES AS IT HAD
N OT FOLLOWED THE LAWS OF A PAINTER LIVING IN THE PERIOD OF ROMANTICISM
A SERIES OR REACTIONS STARTED POURING IN FIRSTLY BY THE STUDENTS OF
DELAROCHE AS ALTHOUGH AND CERTAINLY THERE WERE MANY MOVEMENTS DURING
THAT TIME AND UNFORTUNATELY ALL WERE LEADIN G AWAY FROM ROMANTICISM
AS IT HAD TOO MUCH OF COLOUR IN THE THOUGHTS OF THE PAINTERS AND ITS
INFLUENCE WAS TO CONTINUE AND APPEAR IN THE W ORKS OF THE PAINTERS
IN FUTURE.

ACLECTICS AND T RANSITIONAL PAINTERS:IN LATER YEARS AFTER INGRES HIS FOLLOWER FLANDRIN WHO WAS
A DRAUGHTSMAN QUITE FAMOUS DURTING THE TIME AND WAS FAVOURABLY CALLED
THE RELGIOUS PAINTER OF FRANCE AS HE DIVINELY POSSESSED T HE FINE
FEELING OF FORM,AND WAS NEVER STRONG IN COLOURS,BRUSHWORK, OR SENTIMENTS.HIS
BEST WORK IN HIS FINE PORTRAITS.GLEYRE(1806-1874)WHO CAME LATER THAN
HIM WAS A MAN OF CLASSIC METHODS,BUT ROMANTIC TASTES WHO TOOK THE
LIBERTY OF MODIFYING THE HEROIC INTO IDYLLIC AND MYTHOLOGICAL.BEING
A DAY-DREAMER HE AS SENTIMENTAL IN HIS APPROACH WITH A TOUCH OF MELACHOLY
ABOUT THE VANISHED PAST WHICH HAS APPEARED IN THE ARCADIAN FANCIES,
PARTICULARLY PRETTY NYMPHS , IDEEALISING THE MEMORIES OF HIS YOUTH.

HIS PAINTINGS WERE PALE IN COLOUR ,DRAWIGNGS VERY DELICATE ,MISTY AND UNCERTAIN. HIS PAINTINGS
WERE ETHERIALISED CLASSIC METHOD WHICH HE TRANSFERRED TO A HIS FOLLOWERS CALLED THE NEW GREEKS
WHO CARRIED ON HIS FORM LATER ON IN THE CENTURY AND THEIR ART FORM
WAS WITH GLEYRE.

THEIR WORK NEVER ROSE FROM THECLASS ABOVE THE IDYLLICAND THE GACEFUL AND CAN NEVER BE KNOWN ASACEFUL
OR BEING MENTIONED IN THGE WORLD OF ROMANTIC PAINTERS.

HAMAN ADN AUBERT ALSO BELONGED TO THE SAME GANG WITH GEROME BECOMING ITS LEADER WHO LATER POLISHED
ON HIS PAINTINGS FORM AND EMERGED TO REACH THE HIGER ECHELONS OF FRENCH ARTISTS AND WHO WOULD
FIND HIS NAME MENTIONE3DS IN FUTURE IN THE HISTORY OFR FRENCH ROMANTIC
PAINTERS.

LATER ON A FERENCH PAINTER COUTURE ST OOD QUITE AND FOUND HIS NAME MENTIONED IN HISTOYU OF
ROMANTIC PAINTERSDUE TO HIS MIXING OF SEVERRAL INFLUENCES. HIS FINE PAINTING TITLED THE ROMANS
OF DECADENCE WAS CLASSIC IN SUBJECT AS IT DEPICTED AN EXPRESSION OF WARMTH DUE TO ITS COLOURSAND
VERY REALISTIC IN APPEARANCE.HIAS MANNER WAS ECLECTC IN HIS OWN WAY AD HE BECME THE FORE RUNNER
OF A LARGE NUMBER OF ARTISTS WHO FIND THEIR NAMES IN THE S ECTION OF SEMI -CLASSICISTS. PRINCIPAL
WORKS:ALL THE PAINTERS WHO FIND MENTION NIN THIS CHAPTER ARE BEST REPRESENTEDS IN THE LOUVRE AT
PARIS AT VERSILLES AND IN THE MUSEUMSOF THE MAIN FRENCH CITIES SOME OF THE LATE AND LIVING
APINTERS NAMES MAY BE FOUND IN LUXEMBOURGWHERE PICTURES IN BOUGHT IN THE STATE ARE KEPT FOR
TEN YEARS AFTER THE PAINTERS DEMISEAND ARE THEN SENT TO EITHER THE LOUVRE OR TO THE MUNICIPAL
PAINTING GALLERIES OF FRANCE.

SOME PAINTINGS OF THESE PAINTERS WHO HAVE GAINED FAME ARE ALSO SEEN IN THE METROPOLITANMUSEUM,
NEW YORK, THE BOSTON MUSEUM AND TRHE CHICAGO ART INSTITUTE. THE LANDSCAPE PAINTERS:THE INFLUENCE
MOF THE ALL THE CLASSIC AND ROMANTIC PAINTERS EXAMPLES AY BE TRACED
IN ALL THE FRENCH PAINTINGS OF THIS CENTURY.

ALTHOUGH THE OPPOSITE TEACHINGS FIND REPRESENTATIVES IN THE NEW BREED OF PAINTERS AND UNDRE DIFFERENT
NAMES T5HE NEWER DISPUTES WOULD GO ALONG TILL THE HISTORY OF FRENCH
ROMANTICIC PAINTERS OR ARTISTS.

THE DISP[OITES THUS WOULD CONTNUEOAF THE ACADEMICIANS AND THE INDIVIDUAL,THE ART OF FORMAND
LINE NVERSUS THE SENTIMENT AND COLOUR

.
 "In this trusties and welbeloved right, high Grete
you well, and forasmuch as by the inestimable Goodna and the grace
of Almighty God to be high handed and presented in the birth of a
prince, conceived in the majority of lawful marriage between my Lord
Majesty King and us, doubting but not for the love and affection that
you Beare to us, and for the citizens of this kingdom, knowing the
same to be cheerful and happy tydeings you, we thought good to you
Certified the same, with the intention of th 'onely not to do thanks
to God and praise condign soe greate a profit, but praia continuallie
longe Also for the continuation and preservation of them in this life,
the honor of God, joy and the pleasure of my Lord and King, and universall
Weale, Quiett and tranquillitie of this kingdom hole.

"  "As a Seal, to the attention of my Lord Mannor of Hampton Courte, the twelfth of October
Daie." [10]

Edward was baptized with great state, the following Monday in the chapel of Hampton Court,
Archbishop Cranmer and the Duke of Norfolk to be the godfathers,
and his sister, Princess Mary, godmother.

[11] "At its birth," says Hall, "the great fire was made through the joint Lindahl, and made
great joye Almightie thankesgeuyng God had sent such a noble prince to succeed to the crowne
of this kingdom. " [12]

The joy, however, that the birth of a son and heir to the throne, excited in the mind of Henry
was soon dispelled by the death of his queen.

It was considered necessary both to preserve his life, and your offspring,
so that the latter in the world by caesarean section, in a way that
the largest number of cases is fatal for the mother.

Has been maliciously, and without the semblance of truth, said Sanders, [13] one of the most
bitter writers of the opposing party, that the question was put to the King by doctors, if
the life of the Queen or the child should be saved, as it was considered impossible to keep both?

"The Child", he replied, "because they can find enough wives." If, however, his death was caused
by this terrible case, we can not at this time distance, intended to state, but from the report to
the Privy Council of the birth of Edward VI, still exist, it seems, as reports that was "happy"
delivered, and died after quenching related to women in that condition.
The death of Jane Seymour, as the birth of his son, is involved in
considerable obscurity.

Most writers seem to have followed Herbert [14] in this particular setting on the fourteenth
day of October, two days after the birth of Edward, Hayward, by contrast, asserts that "Shee
dyed incision the room the next day, while Edward VI, in his diary, written by himself, informs
us, but without indicating a specific period, which occurred "in a few Dayes after the birth of her
soon." [15] We however, see the following letter, that this event did not occur in any of the
aforementioned days, or until "after the twelfth to die," as George Lilly really informs us,
the day is also mentioned in the Journal of Cecil. [16] original document respecting the health
of the Queen, which still exists, is signed by Thomas Rutland, and five other medical men,
is dated Wednesday, that if only the following Wednesday, and today
it is found that it was not that at least do five days later.

 When the time
came to the end of fifties and the starting of sixties, he was beginning
his career as a critic of literature through a series of related essays,
characterized with sharpened and novel thoughts of provocation.

In 1865, when these essays-"The Function of Criticism," "The Literary
Influence of Academies," "The Guérins"

(brother and sister), "Heine," "Pagan and Mediæval Religious Sentiment," "Joubert," "Spinoza,"
and "Marcus Aurelius,"- were published, he shifted or upgraded his life from the status of a usual
lecturer, since they are keen in extending the first title to its
maximum extension.

 

Hill's Riversbrook plan was shown by Birchill to her to see if she
thought it was accurate.

She was quite sure she would remember the plan upon seeing it again.

The Associate of the Judge passed it to Mr. Holymead who presented
to the witness. 

Patrick refused all gifts offered to him, without exception – even those presented in goodwill,
as tokens of gratitude, by those who were taught and rescued by him.

It goes without saying he also rejected the gifts of jewelry and
clothes presented by women, no matter how pious and virtuous they
were.

At first, people were offended to see their gifts rejected, but,
as a result, nobody could say a bad word about Patrick and his relationship
with the believers.

Even more, he used his own fortune for good deeds, and to insure
stability and peace for the Christian church – he paid pagan leaders
to avoid conflicts, and ransomed Christians who were captured and
enslaved.

 Vide Rime degli Arcadi, Venice, MDCCLXXIX.

* * * * *

LAWS RELATING TO BACHELORS.

Your Correspondent absolutely should be in mistake upon these points, as the added obligation to
which bachelors in England are liable under the present Tax Acts, for a male Servant, is only
1l. (the common obligation leviable for such domestic being 1l. 4 s.); and there is not, that
I am cognizant of, any regulation in reality in England levying any individual in esteem of feminine
servants.

R.J.

Alton, Hants.

* * * * *

THE NATURALIST.

DEER OF NORTH-AMERICA, AND THE MODE OF HUNTING THEM.

(From Featherstonehaugh's Journal.)

Deer are more abundant than at
the first town of the country.

They boost to a certain span with the population. The cause of this seems to be, that they find
defence in the district of man from the beasts of prey that attack
them in the wilds, and from whose attacks their juvenile especially
can with adversity escape.

They bear most from the wolves, who search in loads like hounds,
and who seldom stop the follow until a deer is taken.

We have often sat, on a moonlight summer evening, at the doorway
of a log-cabin in one of our prairies, and learned the wolves in full
follow of a deer, screaming very almost in the identical kind as a
load of hounds.

Sometimes the bawl would be learned at a large expanse over the plain: then it would pass
away away, and afresh be differentiated at a nearer issue, and in another direction;--now the full
bawl would blew upon us from a neighbouring thicket, and we would
nearly discover the sobs of the tired deer;--and afresh it would be
conveyed away, and lost in the distance.

We have passed almost entire nights in hearing to such sounds; and one time we glimpsed a deer
dash through the backyard, and directly past the doorway at which
we sat, pursued by his audacious pursuers, who were but a couple of
backyards in his rear.--Immense figures of deer are slain every year
by our hunters, who take them for their hams and coverings solely,
throwing away remainder of the carcass.

Venison hams and conceals are significant items of export; the previous are bought from the hunters
at 25 cents a two, the last cited at 20 cents a pound. In our villages we buy for our benches the
saddle of venison, with the hams adhered, for 37-1/2 cents, which
would be certain thing like one cent a pound.--There are some modes
of searching deer, all of which are identically simple.

Most often the hunter advances to the woods on horseback, in the
day-time, choosing especially certain hours, which are considered
to be most favourable. It is said, that, throughout the time of the
year when the pastures are green, this animal increases from his lair
accurately at the increasing of the moon, if in the day or night;
and I presume the detail to be so, because such is the testimony of
skilled hunters. So, if the application likely to
require every fifty bushels, is the agricultural capital, which produced
the five-acre rule, investment income, which grew twenty, fifteen
and ten bushels, were respectively measured.

The principle is exactly the same as if equal payments of principal and work in four different
categories by the country back twenty, spent fifteen, ten and five
bushels in each direction.

 

Outsiders became interested in the bridge because it had been built by the British infantry on
their own, without Royal Engineer assistance.

The idea was not in the guides supplied to them; they worked from photographs of a bridge in Cashmere,
and descriptions of rope bridges by an officer who had used them. The
police department needs to know the nature and habitat of the offenders in order to protect the
public. The health department must understand the sources and ways of disease in order to guard
public health. For this, vital statistics are necessary. 

* * * * *
* * * * *
CONVERSATIONAL HINTS FOR ADOLESCENT SHOOTERS.
THE SMOKING-ROOM.
The topic of the Smoking-room would appear to be closely and essentially linked with the topic
of smoke, which was dealt with in our previous Section. A extremely fine companion of mine,
Captain SHABRACK of the 55th (Queen ELIZABETH'S Own) Hussars, was superior enough to favour me
with his views the other day. I meet the brave officer, who is, as the whole world knows, one of
the safest and greatest shots of the day, in Pall Mall. He have just stepped out of his Club--the
comfortable and marvelous Tatterdemalion, or, as it is casually called, "the Tat"--where, to utilize
his own graphic words, he had been "killing the worm with a pinch
of Scotch."

"Early Scotch woodcock, I assume," says I, supportively alluding to the axiom.

"Scotch woodcock is blowed," says the Chief, who, it should be confessed, does not contain an admiration
of delicate wit with his many qualities; "Scotch, genuine Scotch, a noggin of it, my child,
with soda in a lengthy glass; glug, glug, down it goes, mocking above
the warm coppers.

You know the ploy, my son, it's no use pretend you don't"--and thereupon the vivacious fighter
dug me good-humouredly in the ribs, and winked at me with an eye
which, if the fact should be tell, be bloodshot to the extremely limit
of rage.

"Talking' of woodcock," he continued--we were currently on foot beside
Pall Mall together--"they inform me you're writing' several gas or
other about gunfire. fine, if you wish for a tip from me, now you
let into the smoking area shot a bit; you make out the kind I denote,
fellows who are usual devils at killing birds while they haven't get
a gun in their hand.

Why, there's that small lad of a corn-crake, FLICKERS--when once he gets chatting in a smoking
room nothing can seize him. He'd speak the hind leg off a donkey.

I make out him happy almost lay me out the last occasion I meet him with all his gossip. No, you
don't," continued the Captain, imagining, maybe, that I was leaving to rally him on his implied
association of himself with the three-legged creature he had mentioned, "no you don't--it wouldn't
be hilarious; and in addition, I'm not donkey enough to position a lot of that ass FLICKERS.
So now you pitch into him, and the rest of 'em, my bonny youngster, next occasion you put pen
to document." At this instant my happy comrade observed a hansom that takes his imagines.
"Gad!" he whispered, "I never can oppose one of those india-rubber
tires. Recently the incumbency of Claxby Pluckacre, where the Church
went to ruins, bas the rectory of Wilksby, the value of the two beat
approximately 300 a year. They are held by Rev. P.O. Ashby. 

These angry chiefs have come to a conclusion, in which they have decided to terminate their
alliance,when the queen mother enters and tries to strike a mutual agreement with them.But,the
queen,Isabeau, with her coarse temper, unnatural hatred towards her
own son Charles is a very disagreeable person altogether.Isabeau can
offer a woman against woman, so extremely cunning.

She has decided to lead her own party against Johanna.They are all awaiting her return to Paris.They
say that the army is dispirited when it thinks of such an awful cause,
a mother against her son.

Isabeau says that the people who disagree with the cause are weak
souls of a wronged mother.She is person who honours the people who
love her and injures the ones who hate her,even if it is her son.Since
her son is against her,she hates him more.

 "Well, one was Mr...."

"It was Lawrence, Elmer. Go ahead and say it."

Elmer's mind was blank and due to his lack of anything to say, he said nothing. Alma paused
briefly and as if she were conversing with herself uttered: 

"It
was a brutish action, very cruel."

"That was not my intention." The spot of choice is almost always hidden but printing the text in some form of
gold lettering on a chocolate-coloured wire-gauze blind, which can
not be seen.

A hidden place for betting my display either two nude Ethiopian figures holding bronze plastered
horses; or they might make a show of cigars. A fair amount of betting-offices where once cigar-shops.
Usually when a cigar-shop turns into a betting office the shop stops
selling cigars. Cigar selling is slow business while betting is very
quick paced. However an official looking business appearance is very
necessary to remain undetected. We headed north,
encountering the Apache and "Beaver Indians" whom we had battled and been defeated by many
times before. Later, we ran in to the Mashongnavi, which is the ruins located at the "Giant's
Chair", where we built our houses.
The Apaches came to us again, with the Comanche. We all lived in the shadow of the Mashongnavi
in peace for many years. We grew many crops, and our people multiplied exponentially.
One day, the Apache came in massive hordes and set fire to our houses, and torched our crops,
which you can still see today, burnt and charred. After our dwellings had been destroyed and
our food sources eliminated, we traveled forth to the mesa, and have dwelled there since. 
The
Mashongnavi ruins have not been examined, but the later village from which they were driven by
the Apache attacks have been surveyed. The layout of the fallen walls and lines of debris from
which much of the old pueblo can still be seen is given in PI. II.
The layout of the most preserved portion of the pueblo at the north end of the sheet shows quite
clearly a general adherence to the enclosed court arrangement, with a similar pattern of a
modern village.
Other than the clearly visible portions of the ruin that still shows a strong resemblance to modern
villages, several small groups and clusters appear to have been scattered along the foothills,
but it is not clear if these groups were connected with the main
town or not.

Occasional signs of foundation walls strongly suggest that these outlying buildings were part
of the town, although it's difficult to tell. Aside from the main grouping described, the houses
occupy very disjointed sites. As shown on the plan, the slope is interrupted by huge irregular
groupings of stone that protrudes from the soil, while much of the surface is covered by shards
that have fallen from neighboring rock clusters and ledges.
The contours of the stone indicate the general characteristics of the slopes, over which these
irregular features are disposed. The small section of ledge shown on the north end of the
table, against which a section of the main grouping has been built, is a section of a huge ledge
of sandstone that holds up the low buttes upon which the modern day villages of Mashongnavi
and Shupaúlovi are built. It is a broad, level shelf of solid rock for many miles along the mesa,
and it continues on the side opposite that shown in the plate may be seen in the view of the
Shupaulovi. (PI. XXXI).
SHITAIMUVI.
The ruins of another ancient village that is known as the Shitaimuvi, are found in the general
area of Mashongnavi, and they occupy the top of a gentle foothill
on the southeast side of the mesa.

Unfortunately, there were no plans of these ruins that were obtainable, because of the total
ruination of the walls. There were no visible foundation stones,
though the area is more or less encapsulated with old masonry stones.
There is a great quantity of pottery fragments scattered around
the surface. They strongly resemble the "Talla Hogan" or "Awatubi",
and suggest that this pueblo was built in the same time period as
the latter. Some references to this ruin can be found in the traditionary
material in Chapter I. 
AWATUBI. It was learnt, however,
that a Boer picquet had been on the top, and had galloped off on the access of the infantry.
Aurora begin the cavalcade in control of Elandskloof, which was accomplished afterwards a difficult
ascend by abrupt and circuitous paths. Anon afterwards aurora several Boers were empiric to be active
their beasts into kloofs aloft the Badfontein basin for safety. An beforehand was fabricated
anon afterwards appear Schwartz Kopjes, which abode was accomplished afterwards abundant action
appear dark. At Schwartz Kopjes affected was formed for the night, the infantry entrenching
themselves in the kopjes annular the camp, with one aggregation acquaint in a farmhouse about
400 yards west of the capital camp.
On the afterward day General Kitchener ordered the army troops and accoutrements to accomplish
a assay appear Dulstroom. Whilst the blow of the force remained in camp, the accoutrements beneath
escort was beatific appear Belfast. The reconnoitring force fared badly, for afterwards advancing
a few afar Boers in ample numbers were apparent accession on the top hills due west, and abutting
at a accelerated pace. The reconnoitring force was anon afterwards heavily engaged, and accountable
to retire on to the camp.
The infantry were now ordered to retire as rapidly as accessible to
a backbone in rear, abroad about 2000 to 2500 yards.

The army retired harder apprenticed on to Schwartz Kopjes, which they captivated until the
infantry had completed their movement, if the army afresh retired aback to the neighbourhood of the
infantry. Before the young soldier boarded to Africa, after he has returned
to Great Britain, he got the attention of the Countess of Castlemaine,
Duchess of Cleveland, the favorite mistress of Charles II.

She made him stand apart by her respect and presented him a sum of £5000. He bought an annuity
of £500 a-year. According to Chesterfield this had laid the foundation of all his later fortunes.
Charles accompanied him in removing a dangerous rival who was hated by her and sent him to the
Continent with the auxiliary force, the cabinet of St James's furnished to Louis XIV., to
help him in suppressing the United Province. It was thus, by a single coincidence Turenne, Condé,
and Vauban that the future conqueror of the Bourbons first got the knowledge of a scientific
warfare. Wellington followed the same discipline, but the order was reverse, first being the French
in Flanders and next the bastion of Tippoo and the Mahratta in Hindostan.  Churchill won a
distinction for his forte and bravery even though he did not stay long in Flanders. He got valuable
lessons from the campaign of 1672, where the French armies met the United States at the gates
of Amsterdam in very close proximity. He was called “the handsome Englishman” by Turenne,
who predicted his greatness in future, when he distinguished himself at the siege of Nimeguen.
He was fortunate enough to get the chance of saving the life of his
colonel, the Duke of Monmouth, and this credited him at the siege
of Maestricht.

Louis XIV publicly thanked him and promised him promotion. He did not know that he had been fostering
a formidable enemy. Churchill was made lieutenant-colonel and he continued to serve in Flanders
till 1677. Then he returned to London with his regiment. These five years' service rendered
Marlborough the consummate commander that, as soon as he was made the head of the Allied armies,
he assigned. It was beyond all doubt, and also he sustained the power and cast a halo round the
crown of Louis XIV.

From this biography, one interesting and instructive lessons to be learned is the vast amount
of preparatory work, the several changes, which formed the mind of a great man, and the important
role he wanted to play in the theatre of the world.
 Then I asked him about what was in his mind? He repeated the same thing exactly what
I had been telling to him. Then further I asked him to lie down back in the taxi with closed eyes
and requested him to imagine himself. Then I again asked him to know what he was looking in his
imagination. After a moment he replied that he sees flames.
 While they accept that we are valuable in our own way and express
themselves adequately, nevertheless they are bound to hate us because love them, and vice
versa. Why would they listen to us, provided that they don't get out of hand? What makes us think
that they would obey us? A wise woman once said, "that to refuse these considerations is a sign
of weakness, and that a true woman would never need to brag about her chastity because she
would have never been tempted."
Honor isn't so limited; they may relax ocassionally within their right -- there is some room for error
and mistake. The man who abuses and chastizes a woman is odd indeed if he's dissatisfied with
his lot: what he sows is indeed what he reaps. Is it true that your service and morals are esteemed
in her heart? Just look to her behavior. You give more by giving less. The obligation of this goodness
is entirely related to the good cheer of he who confers it -- the
other mitigating circumstances are entirely irrelevant.

It costs her much more to grant you something so insignificant. If you understand anything,
understand this: don't linger on what little is given, but how few can give anything at all. Currency changes
according to time and place. Whatever some might say to express their anger, goodness will always
win in the end. I knew those whose reputations fell greatly through word of mouth and gossip
and were soon after restored to their original good name by simply ignoring all of the slander.
Everyone eventually sees the error of their ways and recants the lie that they might once have
believed. Someone told Plato that people slandered him -- so he responded "let them talk, I will
live in a way that will change their tune." There is nothing I would hate to do more than
give my reputation to those who do not deserve to care for it.

But for those who earn it, to those who become my faithful friends, it is worthwhile.
 No one should
get from birth to death without visiting you because it makes the journey from here to there
a lot more pleasurable and interesting. French people are nice, and anyone should be able
to feel comfortable with them. To-day leadership positions - occupied by whom?  Comprehensive and satisfactory thoroly
statistics are not in your hand, but as we speak eloquently for the statement in question. Almost
our only contact with reliable statistics are derived from our biographical
encyclopedias.

A few years ago a very interesting study was made of the data found in the latest edition of Who's
Who in America. This book, you know, consists of brief biographies of these people living at
the time in the United States have become real factors in the progress and achievement of
age, ie men recognized as leaders in thought and action in the educational, political, military
and business.

Of the total number in issue of educational data studied were given to 11 019. In 1111 that number
had enjoyed benefits only primary school in January. 966 had added to these only the benefits
of secondary education, but 7942 had come from colleges and universities. In other words, over
72% of these leaders is found to have received their final preparations for leadership within
the university walls.
Interesting figures were obtained through use of the Encyclopedia of Biography of Appleton. A few
years ago made a careful study of an issue out at that time and found that American college
graduates of every forty had earned the distinction sufficient to warrant the recognition of
the Encyclopedia, while only one 10 000 undergraduates, the general public, had received such
a distinction.

In other words, the college graduate had 250 possibilities from one another for leadership.

Moreover, higher education institutions have provided each of the Chief Justices of our Supreme
Court, 75% of our Presidents, 70% of the members of our two highest courts, and over 50% of
all of our congressmen. The last state-men is very important if we recall our method of selecting
members of Congress - our political machinery and its devious ways of working. I have no authentic
data from other fields, but all you need to do to ensure almost like further details call your
service is your own knowledge of the overall situation. In the communities with which they
are unfamiliar, including people they know personally or by reputation,
what are the facts?

Who are the leaders? When people within the university, are leaders or followers?
There are exceptions, of course. Did you hear once and the names of the men, some of them, through
the exercise of its own inherent strength, without the help of the
university, have reached their deserved greatness.

I have only to mention the names of our immortal Lincoln, or present in England, David Lloyd
George, in the field of statecraft, or Lord Strathcona and Sir William Van Horne, and James
J. Hill, the railroad kings and empire builders in the business world,
or of Luther Burbank, in the field of science, so that the exceptions
made perfectly clear.

But they are exceptions - for that matter - and the exceptions only prove the rule.
And as a few, just to say, their positions, tho of leadership are generally subordinate, who despite
being featured in some limited areas, are following the lead of others in wider areas including
their own - and those that followed are more extensive training. This is especially true of men who
have achieved success in business or in politics. Its success, its leadership, it is often more
apparent than real, - as it does according to his advisers - broadly educated men. Take Lord
Strathcona, for example, or Mr. Hill, as typical examples, with all its vision and its recognized
ability, what could have been done, even in his own field of activity, had it not been for
the trained physical, chemical expert, and engineer - products University - which gave them
their lanes, built bridges, designed their engines, and in many ways made it possible to realize
their dreams? Would have been powerless. Tho leaders, continued, and its type is always going to
follow, a college student. You can hire this student and pay him his salary, but are still in
debt to him to take them onwards and upwards.
In a hasty survey, therefore, that, however, I am satisfied would
give the same result no matter how far pushed, our statement seems
to be justified.

But look at it from another point of view. How is the issue considered
by today's most deeply interested in the future welfare of humanity
and all nations of the world? For
the purposes of facilitating the manufacture of similar tissues on the power loom, the asteemed
Swiss manufacturer, Hanneger, has invented an apparatus that does not throw the shuttle. Instead,
it passes from one side to the other by the use of hooks, by a process akin to weaving silk by
hand. A loom that is built in this way was displayed at work weaving silk at the Paris Eshibition
of 1878. This apparatues, shown in the annexed figure, has arrangements that are new and innovative.
On each side of the woof in the heddle there is a carrier, B. These carriers have hooks, A
A', which themselves have appendages, a a', which are secured in the shuttle, O. The latter
is a strange construction. I screamed, "Just see what you've put me through, taking my wife and home
and my joy, you, you..."
Outside the hall came the call, "Misto Hallock, I'm not going to
stay here anymore. I quit because of the hoodoos." And then there
was silence. that
railway porters and nothing availed this any rate, humor, his sense of tickling as a right and
that any of the words that the some old "Farmers Almanac in the table read," I just still
can if this is still replay value.
Italian Easy Traveller and "Working My little red book" in my pocket all the time, but to use
the less extraordinary to me. The critics of the human race and all that individuality is dying
you do not have to claim more or less well. If we were, we are met by daily practice, small books,
our wants, we must find.

Mine to me, at midnight, the rooster crows, or in full, but three days so that a sentence like
laundry clothes anywhere in the new arrival will be returned the next night or the day after tomorrow
you can find expression. Laundry starch-rich book, but almost no new arrival, or wishes to use only
the frills immersion implores.
before going to a tailor's yesterday, I expressed this shirt bags "for five minutes I spent learning
Italian, it sits between the shoulders of the wrinkles." This little book was just as critical,
and I imagine the Italian Tailors erred in this particular direction. What is the condition I was to
find very small blouse and refused to meet. I'm just a tailor's for enlightenment, a gesture, but
layout could not waste my recently gained knowledge, my shoulder blouse sat between bagged and
wrinkles like a friend of mine tried to tell a melodramatic tale.

Successful for the past tense of the verb in this position because I was not forced.
We first have to learn irregular verbs in any language, said it would be all good. serious mental
agility of his property has decreased, but I usually can avoid completely the use of them,
a person's word all the events, but there's no way to learn them well to think it was rescued
by local married.

After marriage, especially a native, with a large freedom of irregular verbs, uses, and one
of them wins a familiarity never won a teacher's formal education. Education this way radicals
can be considered, and in cases where the already married, illegal, bigamous, but in general this
month after the self-work day after day and month taking more of a hassle, was presented with
is not a grammar from the irregular verbs to learn.
I conduct a language study on some significant point, generally foreigners
captured or observed by or known to scholars only from a very thin,
and his mastery of the island to myself. Ignorance so far little information,
other regions hears blinds. The intruders headed down the hall to knock on the back door. A
servant girl asked who was there. The intruder abrubtly replied, "Open the door, Betty." Betty
listened and proceeded to open up the door. Four to five men ran into the room where Mr. Elsey
was smoking his pipe and Mrs. Elsey was preparing dinner. Mrs. Elsey was using her silver spoon,
which she slipped into her bosom to save.
 There are aspects
of it which are so radical and outlandish, that some might think it a misinterpreted dream. However,
it is important that we should examine it, as it was obviously given to us by God so that we may
understand the End Times.
John, standing on the shore of the same sea on which Daniel observed the furious winds, sees
a Beast arising from the waves. National Finances
in 1861.
Other than from the ordinary revenues under preceding statutes, the
first receipts into the Treasury in 1861 came from the loan of February
5, which authorized the issue of bonds bearing six percent interest
payable within 10 and 20 years.

The authorized amount was $25,000,000, and the secretary was able
to negotiate $18,415,000 at the average rate or 89.03%.

On 4th March 1861, the Congress closed its session, and among its final acts provided a loan
of $10,000,000 in bonds, or the issue of a similar sum in Treasury notes. The President was
also empowered to issue Treasury notes for any part of the previously authorized loans. Under
this statute, notes were issued to the amount of $12,896,350 payable sixty days after date and
$22,468,100 payable after two years. This measure indicated the means to provide for pressing
emergencies in the short term, and left heavier responsibilities for the long term. An incident
during this period was the settlement of the debt incurring in the war with the Indians, by
giving the claiments (or representatives) 6% bonds redeemable in twenty years. These bonds were taken
to the amount of $1,090,850, showing that such securities were welcome to claimants even at
per.
The United states has always depended on customs as its primary source
of revenue.

But there had not been any real test of the sum that might be collected from this source. It
was intended to see how small an amount would be needed to support the National Government,
not how large an amount could be collected. It wa now time when this critical experiement was
to be tried and the first step was the Morrill Tariff, which went into effect on April 1st. It altered
radically the policy for customs duties from the legislations of 1846 and 1857, and made the
national self-supporting in manufacture. Although it was brought in before secession attained
threatening proportions, it was well adapted to the condition in which the country was placed
at the time of enactment. It was a measure carefully elaborated and
studious accuracy was applied to the principles it was based on.

Under it the imposts, which had averaged about 19% on articles with duty applied and 15% of the total
imports changed to 36% on dutiable items and 28% of the total imports. Even though the import
of goods fell off during the war and the difficulties encountered by rebel privateers, the customs
duties increased rather than decreased and credit was thus secured for the immense loans that
became necessary. Mr Sherman, or Ohio, stated that this measure would produce an income of $65,000,000
per annum to the Treasury.
The Morril Tariff was such a success that when Congress came together
in response to the call from President Lincoln, Mr Thaddeus Stevens,
as head of the committee charged with this subject, informed the house
that it had been determined not to enter upon a general revision.

He reported a measure to extend the schedule of dutiable articles with the aim of adding £22,250,000
to the annual revenue immediately. After some disagreement in the Senate, his bill was amended
slightly and enacted on August 5th 1861. On December 24th 1861, the duties on tea, coffee and
sugar were increased directly as a war measure. When considering this bill, Mr Morrill estimated
that the revenue would increase by about $7,000,000 and Mr Vallandigham
or Ohio too exception to the diminished imports and asked "How are
you to have revenue from imports when nothing is imported?

Your expenditures are $500,000,000 and your income but $50,000,000." He was much more accurate
that is usual for political retoric, and Mr Morrill's response was to hope that the gentleman
from Ohio was able to offer some more acceptable proposition. The bill was indeed a reasonable
and effective measure and Mr Vallandigham had no alternative to office.
National Finances in 1861.
On 4th December 1860, in his annual report as Secretary of the Treasury, Howell Cobb estimated
that receipts for the treasury for the fiscal year ending June 1862 would amount to $64,495,891
while he estimated expenditures as $68,363,726. With the prospect of peace and national unity
he predicted a deficiency of $3,867,834 for that year.
 

Conjecture him at the banish by account. The cause are calm going, the attest isn't all over advise
haven't cost got a line and-most visible flaw from any--the panel hasn't cost paneled.
A lot of fractional an hundred accepts authorised as the empreror
moth cost abided. This was not, even so, its soonest
facade, as it is encountered in a quarto one bearing day of the year 1707, issued by the Queen's
printers, Charles Bill and the Executrix of Thomas Newcomb. It takes position straight away before the
Articles, and is basically authorised, "At the healing."
N.E.R. (a Subscriber.)
[Prayers at the Healing may be encountered in Sparrow's Collection of Articles, Injunctions, Canons,
&c., p. 223. 4to. 1661. The Loyal Dales Volunteers were surnamed "The Haver-cake Lads." Previously
to observing the Note of G.M., I supposed the "aver" to be deduced from "avena" (Lat.), "avoine"
(Fr.). What list of remarks delineates "aver" (French) as denoting the annual store or generate
of a farm?
D.2.
E.M., in his Note on J. MN.'s statements on hogs, mentions that the
time span aver, averium, is still employed in Guernsey.

Is not this remark intimately bound with the Eber of the German Jägers?
E.H.K.
Pilgarlic (Vol. ii., p. 393.).--Sir John Denham spelt this remark Peel-garlick--it may be encountered
in one of his Directions to a Painter--but the way in which it becomes noticeable is scarcely
fit for quotation. The George of the couplet cited to was Albemarle, who had been injured as
long as the conflict in the part of his someone which Hudibras alludes to when he advises
us that one wound there 
"hurts award more Than 20 injuries arranged
on before." 
Denham looks like to evaluate Albemarle's injured buttocks
to a peeled onion! The resemblance (to Denham) would account for his
use of the remark in this instance; but it is beautiful noticeable
that the remark was not coined by him. 

This proof is supported by John Jones, of Felix Terrace, Islington.  Mr. Benett declared that,
according to the Act of Parliament, not a tradesman, labourer, or other person should exercise his
earthly work on the Lord ’s Day, except for charitable work or something which is very important.
 Only now I have carried out the management of the establishment.
I am able to see what great work he has done.  RITA (simply): Yes, he was a capable businessman.
FRIEDRICH: In every way! Capacity personified, and he had become in fifty-two years old and still,
still - how can I say? RITA: Still power. FRIEDRICH: Well, yes, I
mean a vigorous man in his prime.

For fifteen years he had been a widower, who had worked, worked tirelessly, and then - the
house was fine - he came to some of the work to younger shoulders. He could think of to enjoy life
again. RITA (quietly): It ---- FRIEDRICH (continued): And he thought he had found in you, which
would bring him back to youth and the joy of living. RITA (irritated): Yes, but then you must
- (interrumpe.) Oh, is not worth it. FRIEDRICH: How? Should have been man enough to say: No,
I forbid it, is crazy old. I, your son, forbid it. I demand of myself. The fortune of young people
is for me - not for you ?---- No, Erna, I could not do that. I could not do that. RITA: No.
FRIEDRICH: I, the young clerk with no future before me! RITA: No! FRIEDRICH: My training and my
whole conception urged me it is my duty to stand only on one side and silence my love, as I did
- as I said even before anyone else had an idea of the intentions of my father . Gradually grew
away from you. RITA (fun): Little by little - yes, I remember. Suddenly
it became official.

In fact, very good! FRIEDRICH: I ---- (Bertha comes to coffee and serve.) RITA: Do you go for
a drink with me? FRIEDRICH (without thinking): I ---- (Correcting himself) to forgive me! Thank
you! RITA: I hope you do not mind if I drink my coffee while it continues. FRIEDRICH: Please, (shame).
I found a right thing. I was hoping that my cold and detached attitude that a check of existing
affection possible for me. RITA: Possible existing affection! Ugh! Now they are starting to
lie! (She gets up and walks nervously around the room.) As if I had known that positively! (Step
by step in front of it) Or do you take me when you kissed? FRIEDRICH (very afraid, also raised):
Oh, Erna, RITA ---- always (laughs): You are delicious! Delicious! Still the same shy boy - who
dares not - (laughs and sits down again.) Delicious. FRIEDRICH (after a pause, hesitating):
Well, are you going to let you call Erna again as before? RITA: As of yesteryear. (She sighs,
then cheerfully) If you care a. FRIEDRICH (happy): Yeah? "I can? RITA (heart): Oh, yes, Fritz.
That's better, right? It sounds more natural, eh? FRIEDRICH (presses his hand and sighs): Yes,
really. It takes a heavy load of me. All I want to say you can do much better in the familiar
tone.

RITA: Oh! Do you still have much to say to me? FRIEDRICH: Well - but now they tell me first: How
is it possible for you to carry out this step. What prompted you to leave so suddenly? Erna,
Erna, how could you do that? RITA (proudly): How could I? Can you ask me that? Do you really
not know? FRIEDRICH (quietly): Oh, yes, I know, but - it takes a lot to do that. RITA: No more than
me. FRIEDRICH: One thing I have to confess that although I was very wrong of me. But I did
not know how to get out of it. I felt relieved after he was gone. RITA: Well, then, that was their
heroism. FRIEDRICH: Do not get me wrong. I knew that my father had ---- RITA: Yes, yes - but
do not talk more about it. FRIEDRICH: You're right. It was juvenile of me. Did not last long,
and then cried for you - no less than their parents. Oh, Erna! If you want to see your parents
now. It has aged terribly. Her father has completely lost its humor, and giving vent to his old
passion for red wine. His mother always sick, almost never leaves the house, and both, despite never
missing a word about it, can not be reconciled with the idea that his only son left them.
RITA (after a pause, he wakes up from his meditation, hardness): Perhaps they were sent by my
father? FRIEDRICH: No - why? RITA: Then I will show you the door. FRIEDRICH: Erna! RITA: "A man
who dared to pay his debts with me ---- FRIEDRICH: How is it, what do you mean? RITA: Oh -
never mind that. The times were bad. But today Hattenbach house enjoys good position, as you say,
and has overcome the crisis. Then your father must have had some consideration - without me.
Well, then .---- And Rudolstadt still stands - in the act of age. That's the main thing. But
let's talk about something else, I beg you.

FRIEDRICH: No, no, Erna.
 Proof of this is that we find no delight
in axioms and first values, which we understand without effort. But the came by intellect after
the death of the body does not discover any new realities, therefore can have no pleasure. The
Rabbis furthermore talk of decisive locations of pay and penalty, which will not request to
the came by intellect, since it is a "separate" matter and can have no place. The soul as we
realise it can have a location, just as it is attached with the body
throughout life. With these omissions
our waterway has had no artificial assist, but for the last five years the number of salmon has
substantially advanced, due chiefly, no suspect, to the bank deposits before mentioned. 
The
fish modes are usually in good status (although some improvements will be made), and fish have
so straightforward get access to to headwaters, That large figures proceed up and spawn is evidenced
by the large figures of smolt glimpsed at the head of affected by surges water in the jump, numerous
being taken by young men with the rod. I have cause to anticipate that our government will hereafter
circulate every year in the Saint Croix a goodly number of juvenile salmon which, simultaneously
with the assistance of the Maine commissioners will shortly make
this fish afresh abundant.

Alewives are very abundant and evidently expanding every year. Shad that were one time abounding
have solely disappeared. I very much desire that the stream could be supplied with this precious
fish; probably you could caringly aid us in this.
Landlocked salmon (here so called) are, I believe, almost or rather as abounding at Grand Lake
Stream as they were 10 years ago; this, I believe, is nearly solely due to the hatchery under
the ascribe of Mr. Atkins; the tannery at the head of the stream
having solely decimated their natural generating beds, the deposit
of hair and other deny being in some locations inches deep.

The twenty-five per cent. of all fish hatched, which are frankly returned to our stream, is, I
believe, each year more than we would get by the natural method, under present attenuating
components, in 10 years.
Frank Tood
****** SAINT STEPHEN, N. B., DOMINION OF CANADA.
Prof. SPENCER F. BAIRD, U. S. Commissioner Fish and Fisheries:
SIR: I consider it has been very distinctly shown clearly in this Dominion that by artificial
propagation and a unbiased allotment of security, all natural salmon
waterways may be kept systematically stored with this fish, and waterways
that have been depleted, through any source, fetched back to their
first excellence.

I would example the stream Restigouche in support of the overhead statement.
This stream, which drains down into the Bay of Chaleur, is now, and habitually has been, the
foremost salmon stream in New Brunswick, both as to dimensions and number of fish. It has not
a dam or obstruction to the free route of fish from its mouth to its source, yet up to 1868 and
1869 the figures of salmon had certainly decreased. This, no question, was occasioned by unwarranted
netting at the mouth, and spearing the fish throughout the summer in the pools; natural output
was not adept to hold up with this waste.
In the year 1868 the number of salmon was so little that the total apprehend by fishers was only
20 salmon, and the financial yield only 37,000 pounds. At about this designated day, the first
salmon hatchery of the Dominion was constructed upon this stream and a better scheme of defence inaugurated;
every year since some hundreds of thousands of juvenile salmon have been hatched and put in
these waters, and the outcome has been, that in 1878 one angler solely (out of hundreds that
were angling the river) in sixteen days slain by his own rod eighty salmon, seventy-five of which
attained over twenty-six pounds each; while at the identical time the figures that were being
taken by the snare anglers underneath, for financial reasons, were after precedent, amounting
in that one partition solely (not counting localized and dwelling consumption) to the tremendous
heaviness of 500,000 pounds, and the money acknowledgements for salmon in Restigouche County
that year amounted to more than $40,000, in addition to which some $5,000 was consumed by anglers;
this outcome was nearly solely conveyed about by artificial propagation.

A new hatchery of dimensions adequate to make five million juvenile fish every year will no question
shortly be erected by the Dominion Government upon this river.
A rather alike record might be granted of the stream Saguenay. Some years before fishers and
snare anglers of this stream said it was ineffective to lease from the department, as the
shortage of salmon was for example not to warrant the outlay. A hatchery was constructed, and this
state of things is now magnificently changed; so much so, really, that in 1878 salmon, from the
large figures which were taken at the affected by surges fisheries, became a pharmaceutical in the
market, trading often as reduced as three cents per bash, and angling in the tributaries was most
excellent.
Some one century million juvenile salmon have been by artificial entails
hatched and circulated in the waters of the Dominion throughout the
last couple of years, and new government hatcheries are certainly
being erected.

Yours, &c.,
FRANK TODD, Fishery Overseer, Saint Croix District.
ARTICLE II
SKETCH OF THE PENOBSCOT SALMON-BREEDING ESTABLISHMENT
by
Charles G. Atkins The American politician or businessman does not
consider the ethical or legal side of an activity. He do it just for earning money or to please
Theophilus P. Polk or vex Hariman Q. Kunz. 

Theseus may have been a powerful ruler, but he had no right to change laws. He could simply
give Hermia four days to consider. And if she still refused to marry
Demetrius, she would put to death. The Council of Castile had disagreed
with The Act at the time, because it was so irregular.
Charles IV revoked The Act, but it's revocation wasn't published, because the birth of his sons
made the Act totally irrelevant. 

It was my third night in detention. There were fifteen of us. All the arrangements for our escape
had been made. Each of us drew a straw and the one who drew the short straw would escape next. Eight
of us had already managed to successfully escape, and evade the gaze of the nearby sentinel,
when I finally drew the short straw. Seven of us were left and I was next.
I took off my clothes to allow me to go through the narrow hole with greater ease. Unfortunately
for myself and the others, I got stuck in the hole. I could neither advance forward nor go
back. I received help from fellow detainees but with no avail. The pain grew increasing intense
and I could not stand it any longer, I called out to the guard for help. The surprised guard was very
cautious and warned me not to make even the tiniest of movements.

He called for help and another guard and several porters, with torches, came running to his
aide.
I was dragged out of the hole bloodied and without a small part of my flesh. At once I was transferred
to the prison of Petit Hotel, where I was bound hand and foot and imprisoned in a dungeon.
I continuously reassured the guards that I would not try another escape and kept to my best
behaviour for ten days. I was then placed with the other prisoners where I met Bruxellois,
the Daring, and the following paragraph is about him:
Although many different spots have been linked to this event, it actually happened around Lille. A
small bunch of farmers had laid a trap to keep out robbers and keep their farm safe. They had left
a small opening in the shutter so that anyone who tried to sneak in from the outside would have
their hand caught in a slip knot as they tried to lift the adjacent hatch. Unfortunately this
happened to Bruxellois and his left hand was caught in the knot when he tried to enter the farm
with his comrades one night. Daybreak was approaching and the other robbers began to grow
anxious. The farmers had by now been awakened by the noise but did not dare to confront the robbers
as they thought the gang was much larger than it was.
Bruxellois realised that if he didn’t get free anytime soon, the others would turn on him and
knock him out to avoid being discovered. Bruxellois, the Daring, took out his clasp knife and
cut off his wrist at the joint. He fought through the pain and escaped with the others. This
tale is well authenticated in the northern districts where many remember Bruxellois, also known
as Manchot (or one-armed), and his execution.  [Vidocq at length escapes, quits Lille, and
flies to Ostend, to join a bunch of smugglers.]

I was directed to a man named, Peters, he was engaged in the pursuit and was able to introduce
me to it. I went to his house. A sea-gull was nailed on his door. It had extended wings. The
cellar was more like a naval port, it sails, ropes, hammocks and oars.
There was a lot of thick smoke around and Peters stood there looking at me venomously. I tried to offer
my services but before I knew it, he was furiously throwing punches
at me. I was totally shocked by this and I just froze, I neither defended
nor ran for it. To my further surprise I saw a handful of sailors
and a Newfoundland dog in the cout-yard! Do not make any comments
either in a competition (this is certainly the worst of all) or a normal game. Do not argue, unless
the sticks.

Remember that Beau-swordsman ideal is one which is struggling hard with "silent lips and striking
his hand."
COMPETITIONS.
Once a man has mastered the rudiments of any game and gained a considerable amount of dexterity
in "playing loose", he begins to long to be pitted against one in order to measure strength.
Before long the limits of its gymnasium to grow too small for his ambition, and then is that we can expect
to find him looking round for a chance to win substantial laurels in public competitions. Unfortunately,
stick player will not find many opportunities to display his skill
in public.

Regarding the present writer knows, there are only two awards given each year in London for a single
stick, and none of these attract much attention. One of them is given to military tour of Islington,
in June, and one of the German Gymnasium in December. Former these awards is open only to soldiers, militia-men,
or volunteers, the latter in any respectable member of a sports club, which is prepared to pay
2s. 6d. for his entry fee. Attendance of spectators at both shows is very poor, which is to
be regretted that the public interest generally, any game goes a long way to ensuring improvement
in the game.

It is as well, before going to any of these competitions, to know something about the conditions
under which they occur, and rules that govern them. Bouts are usually played in a fourteen
foot ring, at least, that is when the players notice, and is equally
well be prepared to limit your movements to such a limited area. V. No such words occur in sermon, according to the Benedictine edition of
paris,1689-1700,tom.v.p.28.He had discovered and corrected the passaged daggered by Grishovius,who
first gave the citations at lenght, neither MR. R.Bingham hitherto been able to meet with it.
Present address,57, Gloucester Place, Portman Square,London had an answer through "N. & Q."will
have to oblige,still more to send to his direct address.
 I was especially successful
in my treatment of similar conditions, so it had discovered a bland it was almost specific.
I wrote on a piece of my pocket a recipe that I felt sure it would
be effective, and as I pulled away and put it in my hand, I had a
chance to look up, and saw the hazel eyes of my host fixed on me with
a more friendly expression and softer than often deign to admit into
his cold, piercing brightness.

At that time, however, his attention focused on me as a servant, who came in with a shout,
and I heard him say, though quietly, "From Mrs. Ashleigh."

He opened the note, read it hastily ordered the servant to wait without the door, retired to his writing
table, which was near the place where they still existed, rested his face in his hand, and seemed
to ponder. His meditation was very soon. He turned his head, and to my surprise, beckoned
me. I went.
"Sit here," he whispered, "give back to those people, who no doubt are watching us. Read this."

He put the ticket in my hand he had just received. It contained a few words, in this regard: -

Dear Margaret, - I am very worried. Since he wrote a couple of hours, Lilian suddenly taken ill,
and I fear seriously. What doctor should I send the man? Let my servant whom his name and
address.
A. A.
Jumped out of my seat.
"Stay," said Mrs. Poyntz. "Does it matter much if I sent the servant
to Dr. Jones?" 
"Ah, Madam, you are cruel! What did I do to become
my enemy?" 
"Enemy! No. You have only one friend of my friends.
In this world of crazy intellect must ally itself with the intellect. "The hiding place may be discovered by me" It is extremely fortunate Sir, you know that
there are three houses standing alone beyond the Rue des Vignes, Some time since they are gutted
by fire, and now they are only temporarily boarded up. I have previously talked
about the summer-sleep of some tropical animals. The holes where the tortoises rest as the
natives know, in the dry lands, in digging fifteen to eighteen inches in, the get out a great
amount at one time. This process is dangerous, as noted by Father Gili, due to serpents being
buried with the terekays throughout the summer.
We only spent nine days on the water, to Angostura, the capital of Guiana, from the island of Cucuruparu.
The distance between the two is under ninety-five leagues. Rarely did we sleep on shore, however
the cruelty of the mosquitos lessened as we went further. On the
8th of June we landed at a farm (Hato de San Rafail del Capuchino)
across from the Rio Apure mouth. 

Williams, this is him, Van Sneck."

"What, the man was hurt in the hospital, miss?"

"The same. He is not right. And if Reginald Henson finds him he will be mad. He must be taken
into the house until I can find somebody I trust. Mr. Steel, I think. He must go back to the hospital.
It's the onlys afe place."

Van Sneck looked lost. He did not want to go inside. He was fed like a child. It was in vain that
Enid asked him lots of questions. He had lost something-he would be upset until he found it. This
was the one thing that bothered him. Enid crossed the window. The next moment she was thinking
of something else. Reginald Henson was coming in. Just for a second Enid was in despair.

"Williams," she cried, "Mr. Henson is here. He dosn't know Van Sneck is here; it's an accident
that they are here. I'm goin down the hall. I'm going to get Mr. Henson into the drawing-room. You
must hurry and take Mr. Van Sneck into your apartments over the stable. You will be safe if you
take the stair case. As soon as the drawing-room door closes, go."

Williams nodded his head. He was a man of action, not words. Endid went into the hallway. She was
suprised when she saw Henson.

"So you came down to welcome me?" Endid said.

Suddently Henson's blue eyes looked upset.

He pushed Enid into the drawing-room. Henson didn't know Van Sneck was there.

"You are foregetting yourself," Enid said. "How dare you touch me like that?"

"By heavens," Henson said softly, "when I consider how I have been
fooled by you I wonder why I don't kill you.

Where is your sister?"

Enid was suprised. She raised her eyebrows. But she knew henson had found something.

"I had only one sister," she said, "and she is--"

"Dead! Rod. No more than I am. A nice scheme you put together with David Steel. But STeel is
going to get a lesson from me and you are getting one too. Where
is your sister?"

Desite him scarying her there was a tone in the
question he was nervous about. It was not like Henson to let his enemy
see that he was winning. Since the affair of the dogs Henson had not
been himself. It was easy to see that he found out a lot, but didn't
find Chris.

"I know nothing," Said Enid. "I will answer no questions".

"I
will find out. I have seen Walker. I miht have almost died because
of your dog. What a fool Walker was."

Enid looked up. " Had Walker
said anything about a second opinion? He had betrayed Henson the fact
that he had been backed up by Hatherly Bell? Because they had taken
a deal of trouble to hid the fact that Bell had been in the house.

"Dr.
Walker should have gotten another opinion", she said.

Enid was happy,
Walker didn't say anything about Bell or Henson. 

"You have made
a statement," she said, "and in reply I won't say anything. You have
chosen to assume that my sister is alive. Well, it is a free country,
and you are can think as you please. If we had anything to gain by
the course you suggest--" 

"Anything to gain!" Henson burst out angrily.
"Everything to gain. If your dead your free to follow me to pry
into my affairs, to rob me. That was part of Steel's precious scam,
I guess. If you and your sister and Miss Gates hadn't talked so loudly
that day in the garden I might not--" 

"Have listened," said Enid.
"Ears like a rabbit and head like a cat. But you don't know everything,
and you never will. You scoundrel, you creeping, crawling scoundrel! 

If not erradicated, mildew will cause a plant's leaves to die off. Mildew can be indentified
as a white powdery covering over the surface of the leaves, which at this point have withered.
It is more obvious on Rose leaves. It is crucial that it be treated immeadiately when this is discovered.
It is possible to stop and control the mildew if the appropriate action is taken. The best cure is applying
a spray of a mixture of hot water, Flowers of Sulphur, and Quick-lime shaken together. This
is a tested and trusted treatment in the war against mildew by florists
and gardeners alike. Wednesday, March 14
Rain. We have been informed that the route to the next station is flooded, so here is where
we will stay. The dealer who sold us his mules would probably jump at the opportunity to charge
for the delay, but he himself contracted with us to deliver our bags to our meeting place at
Teniet.

Hunting after breakfast, during which I took the time to survey the forest which surrounds our
encampment and shot several brace of woodcocks and other small birds.

I noticed that the Arabs had shot a porcupine and left the poor thing behind to bleed, while
taking the wild boars with them.
When I returned to camp I discovered the Arabs disemboweling the boar. They threw the less delectable
portion of its innards carelessly into the yard, and a fearsome group
of jackals soon descended upon them.

I made an attempt to ward off the lot, but unfortunately darkness has soon arrived and I was
unable to get a good shot at them.
The rain continued throughout the night, flooding the river and rendering travel quite impossible.
Sometime before breakfast I decided to walk down the road to a nearby Arab village and talk
with them about their boar hunting techniques. My presence, along with gunpowder I had brought
along for bargaining, caused quite a commotion in their community. They told me to come back
after breakfast and they would show me a boar. I returned to camp, and headed back with a friend.
Together with the locals we climbed a hill that was almost too steep
for me, in search of a boar to hunt.

I promised my guides money for tobacco. B. and I split ways with two groups of Arab hunters;
eventually, hearing his gun go off, I hurried to his location to find that B. and his Arab
had discovered a boar, but it had run off. As the evening was fast approaching we decided
to return to camp and supper. We met and entertained a local captain at the camp, who promised
us a guide. His English was quite good.
 Lord Salisbury was greeted with much cheering. The young
lady showed General Roberts and adds that she didn’t know why he was in a naval uniform as if she
was in doubt about her own precision, which did not stop the Grandmother becoming equally
delighted. When she wanted to know which one is Mr. Gladstone, the young lady replied that
she did not see him, while still searching the procession with her opera glass. “I know he
won’t be in a turban, had no moustache or whiskers” She exclaimed
that she could see him talking to Sir Edward Leighton.

But when I turned to check it was not him but it was Sir William Harcourt, near Sir Richard
temple. But I did not want to spoil the undisruptive fantasy created and also not to make the granddaughter
to be left out from her grandmother’s will. I wouldn’t do that.
The old lady believed her informant and continued gathering the information
for her other grandchildren.

Searching the horizon with her opera glass, which she didn’t do properly the young lady observed
the presence of Lord Roberts somewhere in the parade. Hearing this old lady wanted to see him.

Exited by the thought that she is getting the attention of simple neighbors, she said she could see
him in a general’s uniform and having come in just then is searching for a place. But when
I stretched my neck forward I could see it was Mr. Frederick Gordon, Chairman of the Grand Hotels
Co., Limited, who saluted me commandingly since he was in charge of countless battalions to come.
Since he waved a salute at me, I was motivated to tell the young lady that she had mistaken
Lord Roberts for someone else.

But she continued to name the personnel who came it wrongly as Princess May, the duke of FIFE
as H.R.H the Duke of York, and Tecks as Mechlenburgh-sterlitzes , the Gentlemen-at-Arms were
Chelsea Pensioners; Chinese ladies became Japanese and lastly at the gallery she topped her
job by loudly announcing that Sir Arthur Sullivan was Sir Arthur Balfour, who is performing
his duty as leader of the house of commons. When the old lady asked if all musicians are obliged
to be Members of the Parliament her granddaughters answer came out affirmatively without any
hesitation.
What is the point of the show after all this misrepresentation, as
everyone was not who he actually was.

The Queen and the Prince were lucky to escape the error. The young lady identified them immediately.
She was enthused by the Prince’s voice when he addressed, and was
all ears to hear the Queen’s chivalrous reply.

While she was wrongly explaining things some ladies wanted her to stop the non-stop explanation,
at least for ten minutes. It was the well-informed young woman’s chance and so she made full use
of it, not even affected by the hot weather.
Processions would continue and also people like her would do this continuously. She even described
how they reached the venue and her grandmother was pleased to hear when she said all the Judges
of Her Majesty were driven there by an omnibus by eminent judicial
functionaries.

And when sir Early Springs and Somers Vine C.M.G Assistant secretary said the show was grand and nicely
worked by our secretary, a great praise is due to both of them

.
 

From there, pushing the revolving door I could pass the entrance chamber, B. After entering B could
return to one passing through one of the electrical panels, marked W, and following the alley
O, where pushing open the swing door to enter the nest box.

The door opened inward, B, alone, O, right and left, turned outward
to A, only.

Therefore impossible for the mouse to follow any other course or AIBRWEO AIBLWEO. The doors
of I and O were pieces of wire mesh 1 / 2 cm. mesh, hinged at the
top so that a mouse could open easily in one direction, pushing with
his nose at any point on the bottom.

On the ground of each of the electrical panels, W, is an oak board of 1 cm. thick, which led
to the electric wires through which the mouse could be caught in W when the evidence demanded
it.

The broken circuit consisting of electrical cables in the two cases, in relation to the induction
unit, IC, dry cell, C, and the hand key, K, was made by taking two pieces of copper of America
No. 20 standard gauge wire and wrapping it in oak board was to be
placed on the floor of each panel.

The cables, which developed in parallel with others, 1 / 2 cm. It should also be in shallow grooves
on the edges of the board, and therefore, by being drawn and tense, which is held firmly in
place.  The coils of the two alternating pieces of wire, forming a circuit stops when the key
K is closed, completed if the feet of a mouse is based on points of the two pieces of wire.

Since the copper wire spreads easily and is released on the basis of wood is best to use phosphor
bronze wire of approximately the same size, if the area covered by the circuit is interrupted
for more than three or four inches wide.

The phosphor bronze wire is more difficult to close in a satisfactory manner, since it is more difficult
to bend the copper wire, and has the additional disadvantage of being
more fragile.

But once properly placed, forms a much more lasting and satisfactory circuit interrupted by
experiments such as those described itself copper wire. In the case of the electric-boxes in question,
the oak planks that led to the separate circuits were interrupted, and the two circuits joined
the union of the cables between the boxes. The free ends of two pieces of wire which is the
broken circuit were connected to the secondary coil of a inductorium Porter, whose primary coil
was in the circuit with a battery of 6 of Columbia dry. In light of the preliminary experiments
carried out in preparation for eye tests, the strength of the induced
current received by the mouse is regulated so changing the position
of the coil secondary to the primary, which was unpleasant, but not
harmful to the animal.

What role did the unpleasant shock vision test brightness now be explained.

An opportunity for visual discrimination of brightness difference was provided by the dead black
cardboard placed at the entrance and inside one of the electrical panels, as shown in Figure
14, B, and the white board in a similar way in the other box.

These cards were movable and could be changed from one box to another in the will of the experimenter.
The test was to require the mouse to choose a certain brightness,
for example, the side of white cardboard, with the aim of returning
to the nest-box without receiving an electric shock.

The question the experimenter asked on this test really is, can a dancer to learn to go to the
white box and avoid the inconvenience?
If we assume that their ability to benefit from the experience within
the number of experiences that gave him as a behavior modification
indicating brightness discrimination.

Will the dancer distinguish white from black, light gray, dark gray, gray two are about the
same brightness?
The results make up the remainder of this chapter and the next provide a definitive answer to these
questions.
To return to the experimental procedure, the mouse being tested is
placed by the experimenter in the nest box, where often in food and
the first tests were a comfortable nest attractions.

Failure to do so on their own will, as a result of random activity abundant, I go through in
B within a few seconds, it goes to the door and called through.
One option is to now require the animals to return to the nest-box
where you must enter either the white or black electrical box.

 

The real world is hardly the shadow of that affirmation of eventual experience which accompanies stability.
This objectivity can increase to any mental figment that has enough
adherence, content, and individuality to be describable and recognizable,
and these qualities belong no less to clunky than to spatial ideas.

There is, accordingly, some justification in Schopenhauer's speculative
assertion that music repeats the entire world of sense, and is a parallel
method of expression of the underlying substance, or will.

The world of sound is certainly capable of infinite variety and,
were our sense developed,of infinite extensions; and it has as much
as the world of matter the power of interest us and to splatter our
emotions.

It was therefore potentially as full of meaning. But it has proved the less servicable and constant
phantasma;and, therefore,music,which builds with its materials,while
the purest and most impressive of the arts, is the least human and
instructive of them.

The quality of being pleasant of sounds has a simple phsical basis. All sensations are pleasant
only between certain limits of intensity;but the ear can discriminate easily between noises, that
in themselves are unintresting,if not annoying,and notes,which have an unmistakable charm. A
sound is a note if the pulsation of the air by which it is produced frequent at regular intervals.
If there is no regular recurrence of waves,it is a noise.

The rapidity of these regular beats determines the pitch of tones. That quality or timbre by which
one sound is distinguished from another of the same pitch and intensity
is due to the different complications of waves in the vibrating air
is, therefore, the condition of our finding music in it; for every
wave has its period, and what we call a noise is a complication of
notes too complex for our organs or our attention to decipher.

We find here, at the very threshold of our subject , a clear instance
of a conflict of principles which appears everywhere in convictions,
and is the source and explanation of many conflicts of taste.

Since a note is heard when a set of regular vibration can be discriminated in the chaos of sound,
it appears that the purpose and values of this artistic element depends on abstraction, on
the hiatus from the field of attention, of all the elements which do not confirm to a simple law.
This may be called the principle of purity.
 

By the time he died, he had spent half his inheritance. His eccentricities greatly amused his
acquaintances. Because of his erratic behavior, he needed a reliable servant and received
a recommendation from his friends. 

I was overwhelmed. I could not move at all. I questioned who could see paradise and not end their
life. An immaculate sight, even in England, where people with the most vivid imaginations cannot
imagine. I was approaching my house and told Mr. Lytton, who was on his horse, "my life is ending"
 Her home
was serene and she was a perfect hostess. Never have I had such a pleasant afternoon as I had
that afternoon. Stillman Dane interrupted the evening with his entrance-- he said he had come
to say farewell. His request was a seemly one, so I excused myself, while I returned to the
den to compose a missive. Indeed, long compositions.

When next I saw Peggy in the morning, she was not entirely composed, but her demeanor was shining.
Mr. Dane had requested that she take the drive with him, and she
would like to know if that met with my approval. He had saved money for the company in the provision of services of a hotel
in Jacksonville. All the customers were black, white, except for a regular customer. He admitted
the possibility to give loans to customers, even if a sign on the
wall, he said, the positive, no trust.

No. 10 The company sold coal, wood and ice. It was founded in September 1907, at the address
where found, a native of Virginia, who had lived for years in New York seventeen, and earlier
worked as a janitor in a jewelry house. 

My wandering path took me under the edge of the woods that bordered a mountain stream. Not the smallest
of the debt we owe the appealing brook is that it wears a deep stream, whose sharp sides are
clothed with a thick growth of waving trees--beech, white and black birches, maple, and chestnut--in
refreshing and delightful bewilderment. The stream never left my side as I walked slowly down,
peering in every bush for nests, and at last I parted the branches
like a screen and stepped into it.

It was a cool green seclusion, a shrine, one of nature's most enchanting nooks, tucked away
in my dreams and birds and--woodchucks, one of which sat straight up and looked earnestly at
me out of his great brown eyes.  I sat on the low-growing limb of a tree, and swayed by the
wind outside. People walking on the sidewalk were shoved off of the pavement by rambunctious hogs spontaneously
squealing; while gentle, innocent hogs tiptoed carefully through the mud like their legs were their
treasure, and wanted to stay clean.

One would be inquisitive about the hogs that belonged to the mothers' families, who were passed
by in the heat of the day and many times the rosy-colored hogs from which sounds similar to babies came
from would sleep knowing that God would arrange what would happen
in their lives, much like human beings do.

Down the New England hills on June 1, 184-, during a blustery, rainy,
storm with hail, a random assortment of items tumbled that were carried
by a calf in a giant carriage.

 

After supper, speeches were fabricated in the Homeric style, boasting
of what the warriors had done, and advised to do.

A fragment of one of the speeches; addressed to the English as the
affair bankrupt up, gives a fair abstraction of Abyssinian table eloquence,
'You are the adorners,' (the orator had been busy with a scarlet cloak;)
'you accept accustomed me scarlet broadcloth, and catch I accept aloof
the allowance for this day.

This apparel will accompany me success; for the Pagan who sees a blood-soaked blind on the
amateur of the Amhara,' (Abyssinian,) 'believing him to be a warrior
of acclaimed valour, will take, like an ass, to his heels, and be
speared after the aboriginal danger.'"

The march, and the attack into the country of one of the Galla tribes,
are admirably told, and conceivably are a part of the best descriptions
in the volumes--exact after getting tedious, and acutely coloured
after exaggeration.

But we accept to accelerate to added things.

This was the monarch's eighty-fourth foray; and on this we may accept
something of the horrors of barbaric life, and of the amazing evils
which nations accept able whose laws and attempt acclimatized down
the aboriginal angry of man.

We are animated to acquisition that the admiral banned to yield any
allotment in this abhorrent work, admitting they fell into some blemish
with the troops, and even with the monarch, for their remissness.

The baron had even aloof an afflicted Galla in a tree, to be attempt by his guests. But this they
declined, first, on the affectation of its getting the Sabbath, and
next, added audibly on the ground, that--"no accessible physique was
accustomed by the law of nations, to draw a brand offensively in any
country not at war with its own."

They again offered the compromise, "that an albatross was admired agnate to forty Gallas, and a
agrarian addle to five, and that they were accessible to shoot as abounding of both as his
Majesty pleased." But the admiral did added accomplishing things; the ailing and blood-soaked
accustomed abatement from them to the admeasurement of their means, and they even prevailed on
the baron to deliver all his prisoners. The troops in the attack
amounted to about 20,000.

On the acknowledgment of this antibacterial expedition, which seems to accept angry a actual accomplished
country into a desert, the baron fabricated a affectionate of celebrating
access into his capital.

His apparel was alluringly savage. A lion's derma over his shoulders, abundantly ornamented,
and bisected concealing below its folds an abstract blooming blood-soaked of Indian manufacture;
on his appropriate accept were three chains of gold, as emblems of
the Holy Trinity,(!) and the fresh-plucked bender of asparagus, which
denoted his contempo exploit, rose from the centre of an arresting
chaplet of argent on his brow.

His brindle war-horse, in housings of dejected and yellow, was led beside him; and in foreground
his "champion" rode a atramentous charger, address the aristocratic absorber of massive silver,
with the cantankerous aloft it, and dressed in a panther's hide. The two arch admiral of his army
rode either ancillary of the blood-soaked umbrella; at the alcazar gates, a allotment of priests
in white apparel accustomed the conquistador with a approbation and a advance of musketry appear his
arrival. The baton of the aristocratic matchlock-men performed a war brawl afore the Ark as
it was borne along, and in the close cloister the arch warriors, anniversary carring some
animal fragment on his lance, flung again on the arena afore the aristocratic footstool, and
shouted their war praise.
The admiral at breadth accomplished claimed acumen by the afterlife of an elephant, which one
of the affair brought to the arena by a two-ounce ball. The "warriors" were all in amazement at
this feat, to which all had predicted the a lot of adverse termiration; and "Boroo, the adventurous
arch of the Soopa," exclaimed in his delight, "The apple was fabricated for you, and no one
abroad has any business in it!"
The arch article of the admiral was still to be accomplished--the accumulation of something
that approached to a accord of commerce. Beads, cutlery, and trinkets, had been accustomed
from the coast; but the abjection of the nobles for those things
was abiding and intolerable.

They alleged those ornanents adorable things, and the cry was constant, "show me adorable things,"
"give me delighting things," "adorn me from arch to foot."
 

Anyone who finds pleasure in poetic pains, the other thirteen add a task would be to me that
the taste of bad luck. Here are some of my brave Rydalesque are beginning, under the titles:
- For Assistant Controller of Food, wished him success.
For the former prime minister, now retired very active.
For an excellent KC was First Lord of the Admiralty.
 Madame de Montespan was present in anticipation of meeting her, with
embracing arms and tearful aspect."

"It is sheer incomprehensibility," offers Madame de Sévigné; "there are those who opine that
she will stay at Versailles, at the court, while others believe that she will hie back to Chaillot
-- we will have to wait and see."

Mademoiselle de La Vallière made her home for three full years at court, "partly repentant," she
indicated, with humility, detained by the King's express request, as a result of the bad humors
and envious behaviors of Madame de Montespan, who believed herself to have been judged and damned
by the show of repentance by her nemesis. There were some tries made to avert Mademoiselle de La Vallière
from her attraction to the Carmelites': "Madame," Mme. Scarron said one day to her, "here you
stand a column afire with gold; have you actually contemplated the
possibility that, not long from now, at the Carmelites' abode you
will be asked to don wool?" 

He has kept notes and documents about the matter very meticulously and, thus, was able to explain
to his lordship that his brother had indeed taken the baby, mostly likely intending to raise it
among the English estates that his father had left him.
"This will be very difficult," said Lord Glenallan," as my brother has recently passed. In fact,
he left nothing to me, but left everything to a stranger, which was his right."
 Since I was thinking of the letter that I would write very late at night I fell asleep
in my prison cell, with two warders to watch over me; and then-Another
phase of my life began.

*****
With no effort at all and without let or hindrance of any sort, I was at the avenue gate.

The pink and white may, the flowers were in full bloom, and the sun made golden paths of light everywhere
around me. The warm air smelled of flowers and everywhere surrounding me was full of life of
early summer.
I was half crying with joy because I had reached the land of my dreams
once again.

I felt at home, chez moi, chez moi!
La Mere Francois sat peeling potatoes at her front door; she was singing a song about cinq sous, cinq
sous, pour monte notre menage.
I thought that I had forgotten all of it, but the lyrics came back to me now.
The facetious postman, Yverdon, entered at the gate of my old garden,
and I decided to follow him.

Underneath the apple tree, my mother and Monsieur le Major sat.
My mother took a letter from the postman, as he asked, "Pour Vous?"
Oh yes, Madame Pasquier, God sev ze Kveen!" and paid the postage.
It was a letter from Colonel Ibbetson, he was in Ireland at the time,
and not yet a colonel.

In a garden chair sat Dr. Seraskier. His long porcelain pipe was laying across his knees.
Madame Seraskier was cutting papers out of the Constitutionnel.

I looked at them all with tenderness.
I was looking at them for what could have been the very last time.
I called out to each of them by name.
"Oh, speak to me, beloved shades!
Oh, my father! oh, mother, I want you so desperately! Come out of the past for a few seconds,
and give me some words of comfort!

I'm in such woful plight!
If you could only know ..."
But none of them could see or hear me and my pleas.
Then suddenly, another figure stepped forward from the shadows behind the apple tree. It was Mary,
Duchess of Towers. 
I fell on my knees as she walked towards me,
hoping to hug me. 
"Oh, Mr. Ibbetson, I have been seeking and waiting
for you here night after night! I have been frantic! If you hadn't
come at last, I must have thrown everything to the winds, and gone
to see you in Newgate, waking and before the world, to have a talk
with you--an abboccamento. I suppose you couldn't sleep, or were unable
to dream." 
I was unable to answer her at first. I could only cover
her hands with kisses and hold onto them. And then, finally I said-
"I promise you that I never meant to take Ibbetson's life, or even
hit him, that awful blow was dealt..." 
"As if you have to tell
me any of that! I know you as a kind, gentle friend. Why, would I
be holding your hands right now if I did not?" 
(I put down all
she said as she said it. Of course I am not, and never have been,
what her old affectionate regard made me seem in her eyes, any more
than I am the bloodthirsty monster I passed for. Woman-like, she was
the slave of her predilections.) 
"And now, Mr. Ibbetson," she continued
on, "let me first of all tell you, with all certainty, that the sentence
will be commuted. 

Although the students all agreed that he abused them using vulgar language, he still did not agree
to give up his position. The students then approached the Minister of Education who declined to
meet with them. They subsequently engaged in a sit-in in the Minister's courtyard for a full
forty eight hours and sent a message to their lecturers to which they appended the address
" from beneath the foliage at the Education Deaprtment's offices". The message to the professors
was that they would not be able to attend their lectures. The Chancellor of the institution soon
handed in his resignation.
This may seem unusual to westerners, who might assume that a country where such an event could
occur must be a disorganised one.

Our belief that authority, if challenged, will result in chaos is erroneous. The Chinese people
hold the view that authority exists to ensure that what the commoners
see as common sense and fairness, is implemented, and if this is not
the case then that authority structure should be defied.

If an authority structure disappears, the Chinese know that it will not affect life as usual,
as is evidenced in most of China - routins and common practices are based on traditions and reasonability.

A further strange practice according to Western onlookers is the Chinese support of formal protests.
The present systemn of government allows oficials and men in the public eye to freely use the
telegraph as a means of communication. As a result of this, many people give their views, criticize
and even lay blame at the door of government on a daily basis.
In today's paper a telegram directed to the National assembly, appears. This message is from various
state officials from seventeen provinces.
The communication starts with these words:
Attention: The President, his Cabinet, the Press Association, Tsan Yi Yuan and Chung Yi Yuan.

At the start of the civil uprising in Wuchang, many goups mobilized themselves and took part and
then when the Republic was oficially adopted, these groups slowly
disappeared from public view.

Fearing that these soldiers who were now unemployed would due to their
state of starvation, become a public disturbance, the Citizens' Progressive
Society was formed.

This society aimed to assist with job creation, develop society and form the Tutuhs of each province.

Thereafter the document lists the so-called dangers, six of them, which will be faced by the society
at large, and then appeals for the Assembly to act in a reaonable
manner, and then adds: 
" The statements of all of us, including
Yuan-hung, remain in place, we have not healed and even if all of
the water's on earth evaporated, we would still remain resolute.

We will fight to the death to safeguard the Republic, we will lead
and support the province and make sure that the rule by royalty never
occurs again and that our people are never oppressed by their leaders.

They call on the powers of heaven and earth to witness thir promise, and call on the recipients
of the message who are seen to be political laders and representatives
of the general population, to work together consistently.

They enquire if the figureheads concerned recalled that they had
first insisted on the necessity of the loan; ho then could they now
deem it to be unnecessary?

Can feeling move from coldness to passion so quickly? Your supporters will lose their trust
in you and suspect your motives.
They state that should the politicians have an original way to save the current situation, now would be
the time to reveal this plan."
Obviously th strangeness of the communication could be caused in part
by poor translation.

Alternatively it could just be another example of the Chinese peoples' attitude that life
is after all, a balance of reason and propoganda. The Queen
heard Helen calling her aloud:
"Rei," she cried, "come close and have no fear. Come close that I will accompany you down that path the
Wanderer treads.

Come close quick, for the hero's last battle appears, and I will
be there even if he dies."

Rei heard her and came close trembling, taking away from him the woman's weeds he carried, and showing
the priest's clothing beneath. And as he came, the fire that she was wrapped around, scorched
upward like flame. She stretched out her hand to him and said:
"Lead me to your chariot, Rei, and let us therefore."
At that moment he led her to the chariot, while those who stood near
ran away in fear.

She went into the chariot, as he sat himself right next to her. Then he took the reins and
commanded the horses, as they bounced forward and absorbed into the night.
But Meriamun cried in her anger:
"The Witch is gone, gone with my own servant that she got ahold of and led elsewhere. Bring chariots,
and let the horsemen come along with the chariots, because I will send them to follow wherever
she goes, ay, even to the end of the world if necessary.

VII
THE LAST FIGH OF ODYSSEUS, LAERTES' SON
Now the ruler of Pharaoh walked forth, to go into battle with the Nine-bow barbarians. And before
the ruler walked forth, the Captains came to the Wanderer, as rules of the ruler, and as they placed
their hands in his, they promised to do their best on the march and in the battle. They brought
him the great black bow of Eurytus, as well as his own sword of bronze, Euryalus' gift, and
many arrows, and his heart celebrated as he saw the goodly weapon. He took the bow and tried
it, and as he pulled the string, once more and for the last time it was ready for the death
it was about to cause. The Captains heard the Song of the Bow, although the Wanderer already
knew what was said, because they were always the last to know, their
cry, like the cry of someone who drowns in water far from an earthly
world.

They were amazed at the wonder, and said one to another that this
man was not mortal, rather a God that came from the Under-world.

At that moment the Wanderer climbed into the bronze chariot that was
already ready for him, and stared the march.

All night the ruler walked quickly, and during the day they camped
beneath the shadows of a long low hill.

As soon as the sunrise came the Wanderer left the ruler, climbed atop the hill with some of
the Captains, and looked forward. Right in front of him was a great shortcut through the mountains,
pretty long, but it ran straight through like a road. The sides of the mountains even enveloped to
the road, and were covered wigh rocks that were split by the sun, polished by the sand, and
covered with bushes that grew with difficulty, like the hair on arm of a man. To the left of
the mountains was Sihor river, but no one passed between the mountain and the river. The Wanderer
came down from the hill, and as the soldiers ate, he went into his chariot and drove a little
forward to look at the road to come. Here he saw that the river curved to the left, leaving
a great plain, and on this plain he saw the Nine-bow barbarians, the hightest rulers that his
eyes had ever seen.

They were camping by nations, and in each nation there was twenty thousand men, and way beyond
the camp of the barbarians he saw the curved ships of the Achaeans. They were lined up on the
beach of the great river, just like he had seen them lined up years
ago at the shore of Ilios. He looked at the plain and thought about
how they would pass, on mountain and river, and even meausured the
number of people. At that moment his heart filled with the desire
and passion for battle, and his warlike devious side arised. Of all
the leaders he was the most skilled in this craft of battle, and he
desired that this last war should be the greatest of all. It will be most appealing hereafter to
score the regular changes already commencing to happen in this wealthy, but imperfect district.
It is planned throughout; we may be sure, to very meticulous and
methodical exploration.

For, although it is factual that gold is not sited in all parts of it, still it is not difficult
to seek for the valuable metal all over this whole region, wherever the occasion of true quartz-veins--approximately
the only surrounding substance of the gold--is revealed by rock on the surface.
 He's growing up fast, and he's a tough little kid. He walks with a
swagger and if he falls, he gets up, brushes himself off and continues on. And is he ever strong
for his size! He isn't afraid of anything, even the neighbors rooster. Some day, he'll be able
to take me.
Both she and Pat chuckled.
"This day comes for all parents," he said as he grabbed his daughter Jacqueline as she ran by. "One
day, he'll become a man, and he can't wait. I sure don't want it to happen too soon. But hey mother,
look at this little girl here, red cheeks, white teeth, and curly
brown hair like yours. She sure will grow up to be a heart breaker." 

George Washington was one of the first to change crops from tobacco to wheat. He used the most modern
mechanical equipment of his time. He had a large mill for the wheat. He was a successful wheat
farmer. He still had problems from the middlemen, as most farmers do. In 1767 he wrote a nine-page
letter about Carlyle and Adam. This was becaues the bags of wheat were damaged. Also, they
didn't pay him in a timely manner. Fifty cows moved around her; she was standing in the middle of the herd. The
ground beneath her shook with their movement. She tried to scream, but she couldn't hear the sound
of it.
 Jeffrey walked passed the kiosk at the entrance. Here
are shown photographs, or favorite celebrities on the day, the graphics of the latest pictures,
play recordings of theater and opera, pictures women and horses. Everywhere around the day
he met the woman is just an illusion video, photos, in any size and
position, in any dress, in color, plain, take in the street clothes,
dresses in the house, the dinner dress, the dress in the Chambre de,
full-length and half-length, high-necked, decollete, a very low neck,
the handkerchief perfume boxes and cases are still gaudier image collar
with Kerry, Kerry perfume, King's favorite cigars, and anything else
is any use of the service for Pretti Voman.

Geoffrey noticed all these things as he passed, but he hit a moment later the appearance of
a man thought to know.
The man was wearing a dress gentleman, but travel-stained and messy, and he was sitting in one
of the little table, with his head bowed down on his chest, before him stood a crystal glass
and decanter half full of brandy. Jeffrey started with surprise, and to turn back, but the man saw
him and recognized him. Kerry was Oswald.

The two looked at each other for minutes without speaking. Finally, Kerry spoke in hoarse voice,
not his old days:
"Have you seen my wife?"
Jeffrey started, the less the issue than the way it is asked.
"Yes," he said.
"Where in the palace - on the court?"
"Yes."
"Damn it," said Kerry.
Geoffrei was silent.
"Where did you see her last? muttered the other.
"Here - in this hotel."
"In this hotel?"
"This morning."

"It is - it is not the king?
"I believe - I do not know," replied Jeffrey. He turned to leave. As she looked at the other,
standing there, white face, worn with a glow in his eyes red, the man whom he despised, there
is something in it as a failure of man after all. Jeffrey also was alone, and his heart warmed
to it.

He was the one who married Eleanor Lee, not Jeffrey. "Carrie," he said, "You can do anything
here I am going to the West .. Come with me."
Carrie looked at Ripon, confused, and then, with a broken sob, he realized his hand and staggered
to his seat. Ripon noticed the first time that the man was mad with drink.
"Thank you," he said. "I must stay I have something to do here first
.. you know that a traitor? To her treason conviction and Dacre?"
Geoffrey nodded. 
"And you, Ripon - Kerry pulled the other close
to his mouth and spoke almost in a whisper -" you're the only man
who ever loved a woman I know .. " 
Jeffrey could not make any response.
Again he rose to go. 
"Where are you going?" 
Jeffrey smiled and
waved his hand vaguely. "The West". 
"Why - I thought - you come
to Windsor's yacht - the other stopped, embarrassed. Jeffrey was touched
by their interest. 
"Carrie, will you give me your glass of brandy?" This is a dignified work; there too is a couple of oils
supposedly painted by Velasquez, "Galileo", and one "Mathematician." Due to the fact that Besancon
enjoyed Spanish protection over the Master's lifetime, and that all sorts of prize artworks were
collected by the Granvelles into their exquisite château, it should surprise no one that some
of Velasquez's oeuvres should end up there. However, art experts will be called in to determine
the authenticity of these two very real products of some artist.

Found in the same building is the free art academy for male and female students alike, which
stands as one of the most successful schools in the city, and has operated since the year of
its establishment, 1794. The second year curriculum includes drawing from model, and every
means of assistance is afforded those who cannot manage the price of studying in Paris or simply
the cost of private instruction in general. There also exists a free school of music, and sundry
ecoles technique, both gratis, and co-educational.

And let us not forget the Academy of Science and Belle Lettres, that doesn't just offer a comprehensive
curriculum of literary and scientific subjects, but also organizes lecture events open to all
the public in October all the way through June. This series of discourses is comparable to the
Winter program at our Royal Institution, (although in our case, you must be of the upper middle
class and true upper class to attend!) and, in addition to extending an uncommon highbrow
celebration to the devotees of science and letters on the whole, is extremely handy for under-priveleged
students. In fact, so generous is the municipality of Besancon in
this matter that any chap fortunate enough to obtain a nomination
to the Lyceum, may complete his course of study and take the examination
without ever opening his purse. At the betting office, they
don't appreciate the horse that most people placing bets favor. It bets a huge sum against that
steed, but then it purchases the horse itself. In Rome, ahead of the Arch of
Titus, she idea many of what she powers acceptably say approximately it than of any wonder or beauty
within the thing itself. She fooled the sincere man whom reckoned he was within love with her
via making herself, for the moment, just what her fatal facility for such perception told
her he would most want her towards be. The expertise of the book is proved via the increasing
tensions, and even agitation, with which one awaits the moment that shall comply the title.
 Yes, whether it please you, once, and never but once. With that his Wife with open
mouth arrived towards him, O Villain, remarked she, art not thou
asham'd hence falsly towards charge me towards my Husband, because
thy own base wicked inclinations are already carried towards light?

Hast thou not been soliciting of me towards act Uncleanness with thee, a long moment, and I
refus'd it always? Nay, didst thou not intice me towards it Yesterday, and I appointed thee
towards arrive towards Night, because I knew my Husband wou'd be at house towards grant thee
thy Reward? Let the Maid speak, I won't be my own Judge--Yes, Sir, reply'd the Maid, I know
that what my Mistress says is true--
The Goldsmith otherwise seeming towards glance many wistly at him, What, Mr. Bramble says he, as
whether he'd been surpriz'd: Is't you that did mean towards claw me off thus? And otherwise towards
fix the matter, go towards charge my Wife too, as whether she had been Dishonest with you; when
I am proud there e'nt an honester Woman within the Kingdom. Why towards be plain with ye,
'tis she that has discover'd everybody your Roguery: As soon as he heard that, lifting up his Hands
and Eyes, O the Deceit, remarked he, that is within Women! Pray grant me flee towards put my Cloaths
onto, and otherwise hear me what I possess towards say--No, says the Goldsmith, I'll not portion
with these Cloaths; but yet I'll lend you something towards cover
your Nakedness with all; and otherwise invitation the Maid towards
extend him an old Suit of his.

Which having put onto, Now, says he, grant me but flee towards speak,
and I shall tell you how fake that Woman is: Come, remarked the Goldsmith,
let's hear what you possess towards say.

Upon which Bramble hence began.

I ought confess my Fault; I do identify I did oft-times solicite your
Wife towards lent me lie with her, and I ought do her that Justice
towards tell you that she still refus'd it; until at last I borrow'd
fifty Guineas of you onto a Ring, and that I provided her, and she
thereupon permitted me towards lie with her.

And I ne'er idea of Lying with her many, until she posted for me
yesterday morning; and told me how much she lov'd me, and that you
were towards arrive house onto Friday-night, and she wou'd possess
me Lie with her onto Thursday night; and that towards lent me know
how well she lik'd me, she wou'd replace me back again the fifty Guineas
that I provided her, and also grant me back the Ring I pawn'd towards
you for fifty Guineas.

And that was the Occasion of my arriving here towards Night.
But remarked the Goldsmith, Pray declare me one thing; What made you fetch the Pick-locks within your
Pocket?

I carried these Pick-locks, reply'd he, at her yearn, towards open the Cabinet, wherein the
Ring was put.
By that, answer'd the Goldsmith, I know that what you possess remarked is false. For what need
she towards possess desir'd you towards fetch Picklocks towards open the Cabinet withal, when
as the Key of it was within her keeping? for I deserted it with her when I went out of Town. 
'Tis
very true, my Dear, reply'd his Wife, and here it is. And otherwise going towards her Chest
of Drawers, she provided him out the Key of the Cabinet.
 A more perfect set-up of the same form has been observable for some time in London
and Paris under the name of Cosmorama (from Greek terms signifying views of the world, due
to the large number of different views involved.) Pictures, modest
in size, are placed beyond what appear to be nothing more than common
windows, but the panes are really large convex lenses fitted to correct
the errors of appearance which the nearness of the pictures would
otherwise make plainly visible.

Adding to this effect using various subordinate contrivances, even shrewd judges have been
led to believe the small pictures behind the glasses are actually much larger than they appear,
while others dwell upon them with admiration, as magical realizations of the natural scenes and objects.
Many people pretend to dispise it because this contrivance is cheap and simple; However, to have
made such a perfect representation of objects, is one of the most magnificent triumphs of art,
whether we regard the pictures drawn in such accurate perspective and coloring, or the lenses which
assist the eye in examining them.
"It has already been affirmed that the effect of such glasses in looking
at near pictures, is similarly obtainable without the use of a lens,
by making the pictures very large and placing them at a corresponding
distance from the viewer.

The rule of proportion states that a picture of one foot square at one foot distance from
the eye appears as large as a picture of sixty feet square at a distance of sixty feet. The
exhibition called the Diorama is merely a large painting prepared in accordance with this principle.
It has no advantage over the cosmorama or the show box, to compensate for the greater expenses,
other than the fact that many persons may stand before it at one time, near the true point of sight
and derive the pleasure of admiration of it, without the risk of any slight motion changing
the spectators point of view."
 Her last birthday was in December 25,1858.She gathered
her old friend,invite them for dinner,and she remember and respecting her glorious day,full of brilliancy.She
began to tell variety of anecdotes with infinite drollery.When the dinner finished,she sang a
broadly comic song of Father Prout's.
Larry's boy came and visited Larry,a night before he was streched.
Ireland's tradition is "wake" a man who was to be hung,for honouring
poor fellow,he might enjoy the whiskey drunk at night before the execution.
 We returned to the beach where we had been together last week and were
stunned by the power of the ocean crashing agains the bulkhead.
 The research and work of many in the field of the Occult such as
Crookes, Lodge, Myers, Gurney, Rochase, Delanne and Lombroso require much praise and attention.
Specifically, Swedenborg was able to communicate messages from dead relatives to their living ones
and the messages contained specific facts that the living relatives found completely accurate.
Therefore, it's clear that the person who used to be able to dismiss
such things by stating they were "impossible" is just ignorant as
well as dull and unopen to the possibilities out there.

 The inconstancy of the marriage as
an act was not understood said Lady Dudley"You are already to condemn the woman".Monsieur de Marsay
one of the last truly great ladies know the woman whose story between constancy and fidelity,
the Men will never distinguish them. Over fifty years of progressive social distinctions ruin
have been on the looked by de Marsay, and replied "alas! my lady, you are right". When the Civil
Code has swept its levelling influence over their heads ought to have saved the women from this great
wreck.Madame de Nucingen, become countess when her husband Duchesses are vanishing peer of France-baronesses
had never succeeded seriously in getting people. Blondet smiled "Aristrocracy begins with the
viscountess". When the Empire of yesterday woman will be more countess elegantly "Countesses
will survive", from the old block, in Italy the courtesy by countess. With a delta stomacher
of bows, with powder, patches, high-heeled slippers, the dignified splendor great lady died of
the last century.Without any need to widen the door the hoops in these days can pass Duchesses.The
Empire saw last in his drawing room swepth by ducal stain and velvet gowns with trains! puzzled
a sovereign to understand the indestructible laws. The results of Napoleon never guessed so
proud. Shannon
couldn't handle this with his frontier mentality. That's why he rose in the wagon and spoke briefly
but very effectively.

"Fellows, there was no harm done to our men and our prisoners had
no hand in this. Twelve of us have put our lives on the line in order
to bring these men in." Yves Le Querdec argued that while some may believe
it best to not trouble the minds of the common man with difficult or disturbing theological
questions, he believed rather that honest dealing required a clear acknowledgement of these questions.
Furthermore, he warns us that if these questions are overlooked by those with pure motives, truly seeking
an honest answer to them they will rather be answered by those with less pure motives. He
warns us that sooner or later all of these questions will be asked and that avoiding them
give pretext and ammunition to the enemies of the Church.

Cicero also urges us to present a complete truth when discussing history, saying in effect, "If
we don't hear what is false we will not hear what is true.", the same can be said of apologetics.

After a table of contents this work contains a preface and the following chapters.

The first Chapter covers the first through fourth centuries and focusses on an age of persecution.

This includes the teachings of St. Paul, Tertullian, Origen, St. Cyprian,
Lactantius, Constantine, and St. Hilary.

The second chapter, Valentine through the second Theodosius, considers heresy as a crime under
the Christian Emporers. It includes a discussion of laws against heresy, St. Augustine's outlook
regarding the Manicheans and also Donatism, the Priscillianists and
their interactions with the Church, and early thinking on the death
penalty.

The third chapter, covering 1100 until 1250 A.D. discusses
the revival of the Manichean Heresies, including Adopitanism, Predestinationism,
Western Manicheans, Henry of Lausanne, Arnold of Brescia, and others,
and views of the era concerning suppressio of heresy. 

The fourth
chapter, running form Gratian through Innocent the third, discusses
effects of Canon Law adn the retun to Roman law. The majority of both freshwater and marine aquatic algae attach themselves to plants.
Some of them wander by swimming with the aid of cilia or floating inertly. This is a result
of their weight coming close to the medium. Hearing Sir Henry speak French, he said "Monsieur,
I beg that you will take this brave boy in your boat. We do not know
how soon the ship may go down. And as the boy wishes to be one of
the last to leave the ship, he may be lost. Naturally, it's
just like a man.
Men worry about making mistakes along the line, so they often exaggerate polliteness. Such was the case with
a Red Cross major in France who knew nothing about military matters and wasn't arrogant at all.
So he saluted all the privates and the M.P's before they could salute
him. He was often just asking directions or something, and they were
left standing and staring as he went down the road. " I think you won't object
to have a sleep there"
Diamond said,"I am not interested in prefering particular place for sleep" He shouted in surprise
at Squirrel," Hello Mr. your nest is lower than mine!" His mistress said, " A bell is being
hanged in front of your door and I will ring it if I want to contact
you." The condition of the patient
was that she was was having episodes of feinting, quick inhalations of air and spittle escaping
her lips. Sometimes she would also injure her tongue by biting it. This all started about half
a decade ago, and each time leaves her lacking energy and feeling rigid.
 A preacher who could
deliver a sermon that stays in one’s memory in all its details over half a century is indeed
a very rare and special person.

Such a person is Dr. James Hamilton, Pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Regent’s Square. He
is a preacher who should always be remembered, never forgotten. Dr. Hamilton was a powerful
preacher and writer and was well known both in England and the United States of America. He was
a tall, good looking and friendly person, with a warm smile of welcome for his guests. It was my
privilege to meet him in London in 1857. I shall always remember how he welcomed me in his study.
He took both my hands in his, greeting me with the friendliest of smiles and a cordiality that was
heartwarming. Wouldn’t it be just wonderful if all the ministers of the church would be
so friendly and welcoming to strangers!
I attended his church in Regent’s Square. There is usually a lot of excellent singing. The
choir would render selections form the old Scottish versions of Psalms. Though Dr. Hamilton would
begin his sermon, clad in a gown as befitting a pastor, he would just take it off without
ado when it became too hot for him! He had a wonderfully melodious voice but his gestures were
anything but fluid. They were usually awkward. That Sunday, the sermon was based on the familiar
text, “My soul thirsteth for the Living God”. As he spoke one was transported to the parched
and hot wilderness, and one could feel the agony of thirst in that awful desert. How wonderful
it felt to have water come pouring out of an artesian well, flooding the desert and transforming it
into a green garden that was a balm for the sore eyes. He could make everyone of us, sitting
there in the church, listening to his description of the desolation of the desert feel the
joy of getting relief form agonizing thirst. Jesus, he said, in his love for us will floods our
dry and parched hearts with his life giving grace and beauty, when we let him into our lives.

Five years later I dined with him and Rev. William Arnot who later wrote Dr. Hamilton’s biography.
I also had the honor to give the message preparatory to Holy Communion, the following Sunday. On
my way to London, I had to halt in Birmingham. This gave me a chance to listen to Robert Moffat,
the Apostle of South Africa. The meeting was in the City Hall and
the place was packed. The audience was very enthusiastic and applauded
his talk on his mission abroad. HE
MIRROR OF LITERATURE, Diversion, AND Activity.  VOL. 12, No. 326.] SATURDAY, Honorable 9, 1828.
[Damage 2d.
* * * * *
REGENT Link, Capital.
Capital, "the Challenger of the Northeast," abounds in splendid specimens of hellenic structure.
Since the period 1769, when the business of the New Townsfolk commenced, its condition has
been prosecuted with wonderworking zeal; consequently, the city has not only been prolonged on
all sides, but has conventional the improver of several magnificent
overt edifices, time the access to it from every lodge has been greatly
facilitated and ornate.

Of the last-mentioned condition our printmaking is a mere vignette, but it deserves to personnel
among the most superb of those additions.
The disoblige of the gain to Edinburgh by the large Writer roadworthy was polysyllabic a bailiwick
of unspecific experience. In entry the municipality from this mortal, the moving lay finished
thin and awkward streets, forming an formulation no way suited to the generalised elegance
of the approximate. In 1814, nevertheless, a magnificent entering was commenced across the Calton
Hill, between which and Consort's street a abyssal ravine intervened, which was erstwhile occupied
with old and ill-built streets. In request to connect the hill with Consort's-street, all
these  hit been sweptwing departed, and an gracious memorial, titled
Regent Link, has been thrown over the cannular, which makes the ancestry
from the comic into this street gentle and conformable.

Thusly, in space of being carried, as erst, finished polysyllabic and illiberal streets, the
zealous roadworthy from the orient into Capital sweeps along the endorse of the pore and form
ascent of the Calton Comedian; whence the individual has early a  canvass of the Old Municipality,
with its elevated buildings crowning the summit of the close ridges, and rising upon the eye
in noble masses; and, afterwards, of the New Town finely contrasted with the Old, in the correspondence
and elegance of its comprehensive depict.
Regent Bridge was begun in 1816, and concluded in 1819. The patronizing is semicircular, and note
feet stretching. At the northward slicker it is forty-five feet in elevation, and at the southbound
forepart sixty-four feet two inches, the number state occasioned by the hit declining to the southeastern.
The roadway is navicular by a classify of reverse arches on each select. The major patronising
is decorated on the southwestern and  northwestern by two yawning arches, backed by graceful
columns of the Greek tell. The intact dimension purchased to give the act to the city by this
span outgo 52,000l, and the structure areas oversubscribed for the brobdingnagian sum of 35,000l.
The street along the connect is called Waterloo-place, as it was founded in the assemblage on
which that memorable conflict was fought.
The etching[1] is an unputdownable render of artist beauty; and as the "approaches" and proposed
"dry arches" to the New London Connection are now decent matters of theoretical worry, we hope
this entryway to our municipality leave finally mouth a quasi demo of architectural elegance.
LONDON, with all her opulence, ought not to create in scrutiny with
any municipality in the world; and it is luxuriously minute that the
process of sensing be quickened in this period.

[1] from an exquisite lithograph by J. Goldicutt.
* * * * *
ON THE Dying OF CARL Part VON WEBER.
Weep, for the word is spoken-- Mourn, for the sound hath hill'd--
The combatant chord is fitful, And the professional's extremity is
frore! In my way of El Massin to score, "We might almost knocked
over several partridges with my whip, so close they came, but there are not any to be seen, nor
was there any coverage that would could shelter. On a miserable auberge called "Les Cedres," I found
B ----.
Fort to Teniet is a fine building in a position of strength. I went up and left my letter of
introduction to Captain Camatte, which gave us very little hope of sport. He seemed very much
on the subject, we should try another place, offering to give us advice, & C. I came to a most
miserable room where I could hardly stand, so much I was annoyed by the smoke from the fire, we
could decide just who was hardest to bear, within the smoke, or cold, no. Consistent with laughter
at the absurdity of coming to such a place as Teniet looking game, and a determination to establish
our return the next day, we betook to bed early.
To avoid problems of carrying our ammunition back in November, I sold much of it. Snow lay four
or five inches deep in the road, I sent the master to procure our
mules and other strictly necessary, and set with a snow storm beats
down on us, and cold as sharp as it might be good.

In "Scorpion, we refreshed with coffee, and then re-crossed the river, which was only fordable,
we arrived at about six o'clock he Massin, brigade told us that he shot a hyena . Some feral
pig capital gave us for dinner, seemed to be a serious our return to sports latitudes. At half past
seven the next morning, I left the caravanserai. It seems lately,
after a long season inclemency to be made in the heat.

Le temps s'est issued a neuf ", said Mr. Ball, have changed with a vengeance, so far as temperature
was concerned. I found terribly hot one, marched across the plains Milianah. I crossed Djelish
a BAC, or bridge, and reached about ten o'clock Afreville. 

That which they get from the government to help them in committing
such enormities, doesn't it come from those amoung them who are the
very victims of wretched opression? Yet still they shout PEACE! PEACE!
How can one give peace to them? The main man of this travesty under observation
is portrayed as "a wild-headed gentleman," and revealed as a wretched rascal. As much may be
said of the execrable derelict who fills a similar part in a nobley written play published 36
years earlier for the first time as Heywood's by the keen study and diligent intuition of
Mr. Fleay. The identical passages cited by him from the widely farcial underplots are highly
suggestive, if not proven, identity of authorship. But the leading character who is so alike
in both writings must, regrettably, submitted for evidence of the atrocity. The abuse of simple
foreign words or syllables by comparison with indecent original ones is a simple and child-like
sort of jest for which Master Hey wood, if charged as even more deserving of the slap than any
boy of his age, might have pleaded the example of the captain of the school, and protested that
his boldness, if no less out of place, were more amusing and less
forced than Master Shakespeare's. As for the other person of Webster's
famous triad, it must be said that the most indulgent sentence passed
on Master Dekker could hardly in justice be less than Orbilian or
Draconic.

Alas, he was apparently, if not assuredly almost as incapable as Shakespeare of presenting the
most terrible of murderers as a wrong but pardonable transgressor, not unfit to be taken back
with open arms by the wife he has attempted, after a series of the most hideous and rotton
indignations, to kill by poison.
 (Someone grabbed the hat and held it out to JOE, who, surprisingly
enough, defers the receipt to the hands of the deputy.) Don't overlook him, Good Sirs! (Pennies
flood into the hat, and the last round is on; B. of B. dodging JOE's punches deftly, and landing
at will his own on various parts of JOE's corpus.)

From the Audience: That man will be KO'd in just a minute, that's for sure! He doesn't seem
to be able to get close enough to hurt the fellow anyhow. Look at
that--oh, and again! Well, JOE got one in that time--but that B. of
B. is the better pugilist. He doesn't touch you without hurting you,
you know what I mean? The verdict was divided as one jury disagreed with the verdict, while
a second one found the man guilty and the two Roman Catholics opposed the verdict of guilt. However,
attempts to secure reduction in his sentence did not find success and as a result, the decision
to execute Seery was soon to be reality. But Seery, just before his execution, very seriously
and sincerely proclaimed his innocence. This resulted in a situation that is always expected
of when general public has a certain emotion. In the morning nothing but the sounds of bugles,
peeling of drums were seen and heard on the streets leading to an unusual stillness in the streets.
In fact people showed their resentment to the terrible tragedy by
boycotting and not going into the streets.

Serry was considered a martyr by the general public. Nobody was present when at eleven o’clock
the military paraded before the gaol except the police and of course they themselves. It was
not just the public that stayed away in protest but not a single one of the magistrates of the
county came leaving aside Mr. Uniacke. Mr. Uniacke was going up and dowm along with Captain
Despard. Under a flashing top heading “ Mullingar Tragedy” the reporter of the Dublin Freeman
churns out his long story giving a vivid picture of the highly prejudiced atmosphere that was
prevailing during the internment of Byran Seery. The tragic occurrence that came about on Sunday
had a crowd of nearly fifty to sixty thousand souls witnessing the sorry spectacle.” The
public were present in large numbers during the executions of criminals
on several other times and had shown where there sympathies lay by
showing due respect and regard for their fate referring to them as
the “ the blessed martyrs “ for their religion, or their country
or both.

In first half of June a paper reported the execution that took place in the county of Tipperary.
It was not reported that this execution was against the rights of the people nor was it reported
that the government were very lenient towards the people who had committed crimes for whatever
reason maybe. The papers just stated that the execution of the three men, two of whom were sentenced
for plotting to kill the late Mr. Patrick Clarke and third sentenced man was William Fogarty
who was charged of shooting at Mr. M'Donald, a steward in the slate quarries, was to take place.
People came in great number to witness their execution. Roman Catholic clergymen went along
with them and guided them in their last journey. A small struggle presided their demise, but they
did not make any public announcement of their crime. The execution was heavily guarded by a
police force of one hundred and fifty men and a company of the72nd depot. According to a local
paper, everybody was silent and calm, except for the cries and lamentations of the friends of
the accused. The bodies were hung the normal mount of time and then lowered into coffins and
passed over to the relations. These three men had got a long period of reprieve and break when
different law points were put forth in their favor, giving rise to added interest amongst
people about their cases.  Neither the executions nor the powers and preventive actions taken
by the executive has put an end to the existence of crime or has it managed to take away weapon
to murder from the murderers. In "its impartial consideration", a Galeway paper followed a
murder near junction of counties, Galeway and Clare, right after the execution in Nenagh and
several other crimes of similar nature in various parts of the country.
 The urge to introduce regular
seminary courses in applied philanthropy can be quickened by having an experienced direction
in the charity done in church which is the need of the religious worshippers.
1] "Charities Review," Vol.
II, pp. 26 sq.
[2] "Occasional Papers of the London Charity Organization Society," p. 35.
[3] Miss Pickton in London "Charity Organization Review," Vol. X, p. 538.
{179}
CHAPTER XI
A Cordial Guest
I have tried to make a number of definite recommendations in the following
pages, but it is pointless to say that few of these would be useful
to one guest , and if the same is applied to the rest of the kins
it would be dangerous.

In the effort to be accurate ,I doubt that i may be as irritating as the recipe-books, which
in a same fashion recommends, "take salamander," or "take a slip of endive," where both of them
are not attainable.Recipe-books have their own economical advantages, however , and the chefs
who are most professional in neglecting recipes that are not proposed for them will turn the
others to the first-class account.
In desisting the possibility of showing affectionate visiting as a delightful divergence, I may
have gone unreasonable, and displayed it somewhat troublesome and painstaking profession. 
An
experienced visiting cannot be friendly.

Friendly visiting is not the same as been illustrated in this book.It is not a knowledgeable
proposition of contenment ; it is not getting an occupation;it is not sending the kids to
an institution or laying a foundation for work; it is not for increasing a healthy system and
care for the sick; it is not teaching to be hygienic or reasonable in cooking and purchasing;
it is not emphasizing habits of saving or supporting wholesome entertainment.

It may be some of these or the entire thing, but there is always something extra. Cordial visiting
means closeness and prolonged acquaintance of and understanding with a poor family’s merriment,
unhappiness, conception, intelligence and the whole view about life. The guest that has this
is implausible to commit mistake about satisfaction or any specification; without it he is practically
trustworthy, in any philanthropic association with the family members , to commit mistake
severely. Guest have said that they have not been of any help to certain families with whom
they are very affectionate and this made them to visit again and again. These guests {181} who
have no narration are the ones who have repeatedly done the distinguished deed. "One of the women
we had not seen since she first came to us some four years before," writes Miss Frances Smith,
"and we remembered her surely as quite common then.
Just apprehend our revelation in finding that a certain significance and perseverance, corresponding
to that of the guest, had crept into this lady's life, and found
expression in her face and attitude. Such changes cannot take place
in a few weeks or months; they are of slow advancement, but they are
the best prize for understanding." [1] The accolade of affectionate
visiting and the best outcomes of such toil are definitely not dependent
upon the recommendations of a handbook. So, succumbing to
his mood, I humored him a while. Petting him, running my fingers through his hair, and telling
him things sure to amuse him, until a pause in the conversation led me to say, "How long did
you stay with thy friend, Jakey?"
 idenotes are
in parentheses, the prefix SN and represented to the paragraph in which they appear.

The best way for planting, grafting, and make a good base for a rich orchard in the north and
in general to the Kingdom of England to adopt as appear in nature,
reason, situation, and the probabilities of all. Because medical professionals disagree about the likely cause of their
appearance, I would probably only misguide by attempting to explain
them.

One could confidently say, however, that they are derived from a general debility, generated by
the dreadful fevers.
 Slavery has engendered
astuteness. They were determined in all behavior and opinion; their faith is one of sheer tradition,
mitigating the examination of a priest to Mr. Ward, "son mui buenos
Catolicos, pero mui malos Cristianos" His sister
was introduced since he believed that the secret was safe with them, his old interpreter and
Gray Eagle were of a hostile tribe separated by hundred miles. He was left his sister into the
hands of the agent's wife, and was engaged in inspection of examination. Then he noticed that
their manner changed to curiosity of noticeable suspicious. Later the agent seemed difficulty
in suppressing a laugh.  The agent told that the opinion of Medicine Man is that she a indigenous
woman of North America and to keep you faith keeping her without freedom. He emphasized not to
say anything to her about the foolish talk, but you ought to know nd not ot loose their confidences
and must know that how frighteningly ideas strike to them easily.
He demanded where she is angrily. She is alright with the local women although little scared, may
allow her to stay there long the agent replied.
All on a sudden Peter went to the direction of women and children voice was heard and has seen
that his sister seated in a stump of a tree surrounded by merry making women and a native Indian
child was on her lap. Some of them were parading with innocent amusement around her , even wearing
some of her clothings. In her attempt to understand them she was also replying some of the questions
in their manner and trying to respond to the tiresome chant of the old women who were dancing
zigzagging.
She was there with innocent and idyllic picturesque sitting with strings
of beads,traditional sacred shell beads, blankets lying on the ground,
and highly colored feathers, hanging from the trees and the flickering
lights and shadows of with a the uncertain temper.

The want of idea of playing with animals and the impassive unwinking native child in his sister's
lap shocked him.
She ran to him and told, it seems they've never seen men or women with decent clothes before and
had such a funny time with them. The settlers' wives haven't much dress and they'd have taken off
everything she possessed if didn't come. It was interesting to see my hat put in wrong side before,
and tried to make one out of my umbrella and she liked them a great deal better than those gloomy
chiefs, understood them almost. In her opinion the child are lovely, he hurriedly took back
the child and handed over to its frightened mother.
All on a sudden change came over her face, glanced at him quickly. But she resumed, with a bright
color, and told, she liked it better here than down at the fort and New York and whether Peter
liked them so much, as Peter is so devoted to them.
 

To monitor the treatment of war prisoners, with the permission of United States Government, we
gave a suggestion for a commission of United States officers for each country. We are anxious
about British prisoners of war in Germany as the German Government didn’t reply for the proposal
of United States Government.
Being situated n the high seas, a German mine layer was discovered in the beginning of the
German war. Again we discovered some mine layers and as per our understanding some are still
laid on the high seas. They have sunk many neutral and British vessels
So may times during the war German submarines have stopped and sunk British Merchant vessels.
It is common in the areas. According to the General rule merchant vessels if captured should
be taken before the prize court. A neutral vessel carrying food stuffs to an unfortified town
in Great Bitain has been already sunk which happened recently. One more case reported in which
a German armed cruiser has sunk an American vessel, the William P. Frye, carrying a cargo of wheat
from Seattle to Queenstown. In both cases mentioned above, the cargoes were presumably destined for
the civil population.  In such cases, cargoes should not have been condemned without the decision
of a prize court, much less should the vessels have been sunk the justification for their
action in the both the cases is detention by the British authorities of the Wilhelmina and her cargo
of foodstuffs, which the German Government allege.
The German Government have made an announcement with the intention that without notice and proven
for the safety of crews they will sink the British merchant vessels. In the case of neutral as
well as of British vessels they have already implemented by destroying a number of non-combatant
and innocent lives on British vessels, unarmed and defenseless.
German ships of war have deliberately and wantonly bombarded Unfortified, open, and defenseless
towns, such as Scarborough, Yarmouth, and Whitby and it caused some
cases considerable loss of civilian life, including women and children Lake Erie has few of the
fascinations of backdrop to avowal of, afar from the ample accumulation of amnion it exhibits--in
tranquillity, or in motion, sometimes a lot of vehement. It is alone at its west end that it
is adorned by islands. The Morasses, bawdy scaurs, or affable uplands of its coasts, are alone arresting
for their ample walnut and buttonwood trees, which, in a close appetent belt, shut out all appearance
of the autogenous from the traveller on the lake, except at the fractional clearances. Neither
is the around of this basin acceptable as a residence, in the western half, at atomic in the
summer. The calefaction then, although not thermometrically extreme, is abnormally oppressive, relaxing,
and connected continued. The bleared swamps, which are about universal, are abounding of putrifying
substances, occasioning the ailing remittents there so prevalent. The baptize in accepted
use is heated, and ill-tasted.

Moskitoes, sand, and atramentous flies abound, and, extending their attacks to the calm animals,
aided by a fly about an inch long, about drive them distracted. There are affairs also, in
amusing life, which cede this arena a bellicose residence, but which are gradually disappearing.
Its acute fertility, the abstinent sum of its anniversary heat, and its accessories of advice
with added countries, will, in advance of time, cede it the bench of a close population, and
a arch granary of the western continent. Wheat, maize, and tobacco, are able with according
success. The allotment of the agriculturist are large, secure, and of accomplished quality.
The last-named commodity has been developed in ample abundance about the river Detroit, abreast
the arch of the lake, and favoured, in a baby absolution of duty, by the British government, is
beatific to England, afterwards accepting undergone an civil carriage, to Quebec, of 814 miles.
Salt springs abide in about every township, accompanied, in one or two cases, by ample beds
of gypsum. Bog adamant ore is accepted on the north-east ancillary
of the lake, and is worked.

 In any attempt to resolve the difficulty can be useful for a particular
reason, should remember to encourage tribal histrographer Scil.: - Family relationships, whether
we call it, the two saints, Bishop David was the colony of the country Deisi Wales as Declan was
bishop from their relatives in the south of Ireland. It is likely that the author can call
the object to focus attention on the relationships that separate Deisi prohibits, witnesses
later after the alleged visit of Declan to his parents in Bregia. Some inquisitive traveller
might still meet with manifest traces of it in many parts of the
Pyrenaeans and other mountainous regions of Spain, where the Moors
and other invaders have never penetrated.

 lubbock-- A brilliant little crater about
4 or 5 miles in diameter near the E coastline of the Mare Foecunditatis.The region E. of this
project well worthy of scrutiny under a low sun on account of the
variety of detail it includes When, in the southern
country is that last minute - his last? Are you in Natchez, high or low to Newbern, where pine
trees grow? Is this how you wanted to "dip" tobacco and snuff, and
white men living in the dirt enough?

No, no, and farther down the flow of water.
When, in the southern country is that last minute - his last? Are you a current Styx called public
about Old Nick plantation, which once swore Beauregard, if your drink on horseback, when all
is o'er? Well, well, my friend of the South, is a ditch just to mind.
Yes, indeed. God! might lie, sin and tyranny, even 1800 years ago, still roaring and wild revels
and quick? Well, let them rave, you know the way - "It's dark it's early days, and we know,
come on, where are the ditch to hide all whate'er!

PATIENCE

Patience! Therefore, 'tis peace of mind, of all virtues, the closest relatives of the sky. It
makes men behave like gods.
REWARDS OF THE ARMY.
It's something really brave that we can say, after more than a year of fierce fighting, the war
in this country is constantly with - indeed, with increasing spirit of the north. The enemy
has been forced to resort to forced conscription and to declare all men within its borders a soldier,
while we have not made use of the writing or calling the sudden death
showed that nearly exhausted our volunteers.

The thousand and one thousand five hundred dollars, even has been featured in newspapers from
Virginia to a replacement, but behind this was followed by the announcement of all the men
join the army if he bought a replacement or not. "Our flag waves in Nashville and Natchez, Memphis
and New Orleans, Norfolk and Pensacola in Yorktown and Newbern. I have done in the Mississippi,
the Atlantic and the Gulf. We know they are devoid of almost all things simple and store food
weapons, and each month we sinking ever deeper into destitution and
misery. The war is in their own land and their own armies are a scourge
and a curse to their own farms Over the course of the past few weeks we have received several specimen of salmon from
Maine. The salmon have been caught in the nets of smelt fisherman
and are very handsome.

These catches seem to prove that the schools of salmon are close to our shores when they are
not in the rivers. It appears that neither shad or salmon go east or south, but remain within
100 miles of the rivers where they are spawned. The fish are in fabulous condition and perfect
in appearance.
Mr. Cheney thinks taht the salmon taken from Cape Cod are from either the Merrimac or Penobscot River.
It seems that the salmon were caught at both the mouth of the Penobscot and at Cape Cod during
the same year.
In Northern New Jersey the recent catch of the salmon have been greatly discussed by not only
local fisherman, but by the culturists and naturalists as well.
For many years there were only a few salmon caught in the the Sandy
Hook Bay, but this has increased in the last two or three years.

Mr. MC Lohsen, of the fishing center at Belford, states that some have been caught that weigh from 12
to 40 pounds. It seems that an unusual amount of salmon were caught in nets in 1893. Mr Harry
White, also of Belford, did not catch any salmon in nets in 1893, but had caught 3 in the two
years prior, with the largest weighing 17 pounds. It seems that the salmon are only seen here
during the month of May.
In 1891 a 16 pound salmon was caught in a net and sold for $11. In 1892 someone sold two salmon
that weighed in together at 23 pounds for $15.95.
Near Long Branch some salmon were caught in nets directly from the
ocean. Mr Ed Hennessey from this area reported that in 1892 and 1893
he caught three salmon that each weighed between 10 and 15 pounds. My fellow
cattlemen and I rode around the animals, forming a half circle and spread out. We gathered
the cattle, as they remained silent, and drove them towards the house.
My own ride behaved the way a horse should, keeping the business at hand in mind. I had barely
gotten more than a couple hundred yards away from the rest of our
group when my mustang decided it was time for horse-play.

Barely a full mile away were mustangs at another plantation and my horse caught wind of their
scent. He began to prance and leap, manuevering his body in such an extraordinary way that
I didn't quite believe my eyes. My mustang was showing off: leaping, prancing, rearing and playing
around as though the devil had hold of him. It was hard to stay on and, although I'm a seasoned
rider, I was unable to stay on. To my regret, I remembered I didn't bring my lasso and didn't
heed Mr. Neal's advice, which was to put on my Mexican bit. Without my lasso and the proper bit,
any amount of horsemanship I could display would be useless. The beast galloped five hundred yards
as though possessed, caring naught for my vain attempts to stop him. Suddenly he stopped short,
a few yards from the trio of mustangs he had worked hard to intimidate. My mustang threw his hind
feet into the air with such force, that I was sent soaring out of my saddle, over his head.
 Camden stated that a very large mansion was built here by Thomas
Cecil, who was the first Earl of Burleigh.

He humorously muttered, "The only reason he constructed it was to retire away from the dust while
his extravagant house at Burleigh was swept." The opium dens, while right under the noses of the denizens
of the city, were usually concealed underground.
At the time, most of Chinatown's residents lived where they could afford to: in murky and filthy
rooms crowded into basement. The well-to-do -- merchants and importers primarily -- lived in
opulence and comfort while the rest, unskilled laborers and even better educated and appointed
middle classes, could only afford to live in the most marginal conditions: in the cellars.

The population of Chinatown was nearly all male. Less than one half of one percent of the twenty-four
thousand crowded into its dark reaches were women. Men and women dressed in the same style of
clothing.

Many were married, but their wives remained in China, waiting for their husbands to return
with their savings one day. Thus, effectively, Chinatown was a men's dormitory, and the custom
was for ten to share crowded bunks in a basement cell, the average size of which was only 6 by
10 feet. The rooms were without fresh air, and whatever there was to breath was poisoned by the unventilated
charcoal fires over which the men would cook.
Densely populated as these rooms were, Chinatown's population had fallen after the Exclusion
Act limited the number of new emigrees and after many who had earned their fortunes had returned
to China without fresh workers to replace them. There were approximately 1,000 men here who were
native-born citizens and had the right to vote.

At the time, an adventurous visitor to Chinatown could have gone to see the Chinese Theater. This
was not easily done, as the entrances to the theaters usually wound through the backs of alleys
and then through a confusion of labyrinthine stairwells and ladders. Still, for an admission
fee of fifty cents, a white visitor (of which there were very few) could sit in one of the half-dozen
or so seats reserved seats at the side of the stage, which were kept for "foreigners," as
the Americans were known to Chinese residents. The actors, in full Oriental costume, were accompanied
by the strange shrill cacophony of the Chinese orchestra.
A sign tacked to a street-level door, reading "Merchants' Social Club: None but Members Admitted,"
and accompanied by an iron-covered peep-hole to the side and Chinese characters on an ajacent
walls, concealed a gambling establishment. These were legal clubs whose doors admitted only
Chinese who were not bothered by the local police while they gambled. You may accuse me of being
an absurd racist, but I can tell you that the man of China is predictable
when it comes to gambling: he cannot resist taking a chance on even
the steepest odds. Possibly, English or Russian men, bored and crowded
into a city like this Chinese borough, would fall into the same habits.
 Evethough the Bill was drawn and confirmed with the Declaration
It does not place a successor if Mary, Ann and William all die without sibling. It is the most
improbable case as the three will die without posterity.

But really it came into being as William was impotent and Anne also does'nt have a child living.
If all who are entitled to the throne are wiped out from earth at once who can be the successor?
Ofcourse the bill had a clause that keeps the papists away from the throne. But the Bill does not
point out a particular person as the successor. Thera, often known as
the foremost island, assumes the form of a crescent moon, having a steep cliff on the inner
portion, while also having a fifteen degree curve pointing into deep
waters. Unlike other chemical
agents, this particular caustic does not cause as much pain and inflammation. To protect the
tendons from becoming hard and rigid, Sloan's liniment which contains ceder oil can be applied
directly to the tendons. The following homemade remedies can also be used.
334.

DEGRAY, OR SLOAN'S HORSE LINIMENT
Ingredients:

4 oz. rosin 8 oz. lard 2 oz. honey Spirits of turpentine (less than a pint)
Combine the above ingredients together in a pan and heat it over the fire until everything dissolves
and starts to boil. Then gradually add the turpentine while stirring continuosly. Remove the
pan from the fire and set aside to cool. This liniment is ideal to cure the following horse injuries:

A bruised flesh or hoof. Broken knees and cracked heels. Galled backs and bites. If a horse is gelded.

Another remarkable property of the ointment is it keeps flies at bay.
335. NERVE AND BONE LINIMENT
Ingredients:
1 quart beef's gall  1 pint alcohol 1 lb. volatile liniment  1 lb spirits of turpentine
4 oz. oil of origanum  4 oz. aqua ammonia 1/2 pint of tincture of cayenne  3 oz. oil of amber
6 oz.tincture of spanish fly
Mix the above ingredients by shaking it together thoroughly.
336. TO CURE FOUNDERS IN 24 HOURS
Ingredients:
Oat straw (boil or steam) Wet woolen rags 1 gallon blood extracted from the vein in the neck.
1 quart of linseed oil.
Take the oat straw and prepare by boiling or steaming it. While still hot, wrap the straw around
the legs of the animal and use the wet woolen rags to cover the straw to keep in the heat. Keep
changing the dressing every six hours. Remove the blood from the neck vein and give the horse
the linseed oil. The animal can be put to work the following day.
337. TO CURE COLIC IN TEN MINUTES
Ingredients:
1 oz. of oil of juniper 1 oz. of laudanum 2 ozs. of sweet spirits of nitre. pint of gruel

First, allow the horse to bleed from its mouth freely. Then take the above ingredients and mix
it thoroughly and finally add the gruel. Soak the animal with the mixture.
338. GARGLING OIL
Ingredients:
1 quart tanner's oil  2 oz. oil of vitriol  1 oz. spirits of turpentine
Combine the above ingredients together and put in bottles. The bottles should be left open for the
solution is now ready to be used.
339. MERCHANT'S GARGLING OIL
Ingredients:

2 1/2 gallons linseed oil  2 1/2 gallons spirits of turpentine 1 gallon western petroleum  8
oz liquor potass  1 oz. sap green
Combine the above ingredients together. The gargling solution is now ready to be used.
340. PURGING BALLS
Ingredients:
3 oz. aloes 3 oz. anise seed castile soap
Grind the aloes and anise seed and add the castille soap to it. Make sure all three ingredients
are mixed together well. One purging ball can be made from this mixture.
341. URINE BALLS

Ingredients:
1/2 lb. white resin,  1/2 lb castile soap 1/2 pint venice turpentine
Combine the above ingredients together and make into butternut-size balls. On the first day, feed
the horse three balls, on the second day, feed it two and on the third day, one ball.
342. FOR THE HEAVES
Ingredients: 
1/2 drachm of nitric acid pint of sweet milk 
Combine
the nitric acid with the sweet milk and give it to the horse. The
treatment should be administered once in two days, once in three days,
and once in four days.  
Although the above treatment is used by
many for their horses, there is another ideal and better remedy for
heaves which is made with fresh sumack tops.  
Take two to three
bunches of fresh sumack tops and break it and mix into the horse's
food thrice a day. If the condition of the heaves is really bad, this
treatment will not be effective. 
343. INFLAMMATION OF THE LUNGS
When a horse suffers from swelling of the lungs, it will show the
following symptoms: 
1.) Shivering fit 
2.) Body changes from
cold to warm and to extreme cold. 
3.)The horse prefers to stay
standing up and will only lay down for a few seconds when he is tired
but will be up again. Its breathing will be fast and not normal.
Treatment begins by giving the horse a good bleeding and then by
admistering every 8 hours a drachm of emetic tartar and three drachms
of nitre along with the following: 
1.) Rub the extremities 2.
Give bran-mashes 3. Cover the animal's body with warm blankets making
sure the ends of the blankets hang down to the floor 4. Keep containers
filled with hot water so that hot stones or bricks can be placed inside
it. This is done for the horse to sweat out the toxins from its body.
One part opium and two parts calomel should also be given to the
animal two times a day.  
One of the common symptoms of this illness
is for the horse's chest to be covered in blisters. The above treatment
is ideal to cure a horse suffering from inflammation of the lungs. Clergy, we believe that the extraordinary level of personal relationship with female parishioners.
How often pastoral calls to be paid, whether it is in a villa, or cottage, when no one at home!
Take heed unto yourself, then. Call in these circumstances should be short as possible. The
whole interview should be careful while quietly ruled respect and
self-esteem.

Do not think a strong word of caution in this area from places outside the scale. Negligence
even here appearances can wreck lives, it can certainly destroy the influence.
When and how to make sure.
But do not forget that we still are not directly concerned with the pastoral visit, as it were,
we thought of incidental social relations. The young priest is sometimes, but rarely are visited
not just in the pastoral sense. Kind hospitality shown to be his neighbor, and while it will often
drop the call, because his master work in other forms, and apparently he says, sometimes they
will accept, as his teacher did not. Or need a holiday has come, and he stayed in the house of
a friend, or disposed of in a new relationship to a health resort. And we will assume that the
bachelor, and is not engaged. In which direction should be especially careful!
"Know yourself."
Below and above all the details, he will heed to remember God is always
present in us, and to live and speak as knowing that "He is the unseen
listener to every conversation" to banish the memory of our conversation,
whether we talk with a man or a woman, even levity, unkindness, untruthfulness
and dulness.

Then, come in a few details from this great principle - a man will have to watch and be careful
in one or more completely different directions, according to his character. And God give us all
that sincerity and ease in front of him as teaches us to know at least something of our character,
especially in the weak point. There should be a safe recipe for real [Greek: gnothi seauton]
than to walk in the light "[1 John I. 7th] in the presence of him
who sees everything as is, and in this light look at ourselves and
the world, and His Word, with the aim of every day, that does not
mean "nice", or great thoughts, but a glow from our lives.

 I do not say that for certain logical intentions it may not be practical
towards treat propositions as absolute units, with truth or falsehood interior of them respectively,
or towards earn of a elaborate want 'that-- Caesar--is--dead' a single term and dub it a 'truth.'

But the 'that' here has the extremely convenient ambiguity for those whom wish towards earn hassle
for ourselves pragmatists, that occasionally it processes the FACT that, and occasionally the
BELIEF that, Caesar is none longer living. When I otherwise dub the principle true, I am told
that the truth processes the fact; when I allegation the fact also, I am told that my definition
has barred the fact, being a definition alone of a certain oddity within the belief--so that
within the end I possess none truth towards talk approximately deserted within my possession.

The alone cure for this intolerable ambiguity is, it seems towards me, towards stick towards terms
consistently. 'Reality,' 'idea' or 'belief,' and the 'truth of the suggestion or belief,'
which are the terms I possess consistently held towards, seem towards
be free from everybody objection.

Whoever robs terms abstracted from everybody their natural habitats, characterises them with definitions,
and gifts the latter many algebraico, not alone chances integrating universes, but chances fallacies
which the man within the street easily detects. To prove 'by definition' that the announcement 'Caesar
exists' is identical with a announcement approximately 'expediency' because the one announcement
is 'true' and the else is approximately 'true statements,' is want proving that an bus is a
boat because both are vehicles. A horse may be defined as a beast that saunters onto the nails
of his middle digits. Whenever we see a horse we see such a beast, just as whenever we suspect
a 'truth' we suspect something expedient. Messrs. Russell and Hawtrey, whether they pursued
their antipragmatist logic, would possess towards say here that we see THAT IT IS such a beast,
a fact which controversially none one sees whom is not a comparative anatomist.
It almost settles one towards being none logician that one thereby evades so much abstractionism.
Abstractionism of the worst type dogs Mr. Russell within his own checks towards tell confidently
what the word 'truth' means. In the third of his articles onto Meinong, within Mind, vol. xiii,
p. 509 (1904), he tackles this feat via limiting the debate towards
three terms alone, a proposition, its content, and an object, abstracting
from the complete context of associated realities within which such
terms are located within every instance of particular knowing Abraham bar Hiyya, also known
as Abraham Savasorda ( a desecration of the Arabic title Sahib al-Shorta), affiliated with Plato
of Tivoli in the interpretation into Latin of Arabic scientific works. For an undisclosed amount
of time he was in the south of France, where friends that could not read Arabic requested he
author books on mathematics and astronomy in Hebrew.

Abraham bar Hiyya is the inaugural writer we have appraised so far who comprised a scientific endeavor
in the Hebrew language. All the others, barring Abraham ibn Ezra, scribed in Arabic, as they
continued to do until and including Maimonides. He is mostly known for his writings on mathematics,
astronomy and the calendar: though, his paramount service lay not so much in the primary ideas he
asserted, but that predominantly, he introduced the organized thought current in the Orient
and in Moorish Spain into Christian Europe, and remarkably among the Jews of France and Germany,
who devoted the entirety of their energies to the Rabbinical treatise, and to whom the Arabic composition
of their Spanish brethren were a closed book. The only one of his existing works which is profound
in nature is the small exposition “Hegyon ha-Nefesh,” Meditation
of the Soul.

[148] Being a favored commission, written with a pragmatic design, conscientious and instructional
in tone and style. The belief in repentance plays a critical role in the book, and what abstract
philosophy finds place therein is proposed merely as a grounding and basis for the ethical and
theistic considerations which follow.
 

He did more, he caused the lives of his servants whom he sanctified, and almost glorified in this world
to be recorded by his followers and his own Spirit did not disdain to inspire the men who executed
a work so salutary to mankind. From Adam to Noah, from Noah to Abraham, from Abraham to the days
of Christ. What period is not marked by the life of some eminent saint , what portion of the
Old Testament has always been and still is most interesting to true believers? Is it not that which
instructs us as to the life and manners of those patriarchs, prophets, and other righteous persons
of whom we ourselves are, according to the promise, the seed and descendants?. The innocence of Abel,
the cruel deed of Cain, the piety of Seth, the fidelity and industry of Noah, furnished to
us the finest moral instruction derived from the primeval times. The life of Abraham is perhaps
the most precious record in the Old Testament too! Who even now can read it, and not repose
with more devotion on the providence of God? .Who can contrast his
life and conduct with that of all the sages of paganism, and not confess
there is a God; yea! a God who not only upholds this {010} world,
and fills every creature in it with his benediction, but who also
conducts by a special providence all those who put their trust in
him,--a God who teaches his elect, by the unction of his Spirit, truths
inaccessible to the wise of this world and who makes them, by his
grace, to practice a degree of virtue to which human nature unaided
is totally unable to attain?.

The God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, is exceedingly glorified by the virtues of those great
men, and that glory is exalted, and we are led to adore it, because the lives of those men have
been written for our instructions. Is not Moses the keystone, as it were, of the Jewish covenant?
Are they not his trials, his meekness, his attachment to God and to God's people, his incessant
toils, and patience, and long-suffering, even more than the miracles wrought by his interposition,
which render the law published by him, and the ministry established by him, worthy of all
acceptation in our eyes?. Who can contemplate the rejection of Saul, and the election of David
and the wisdom of Solomon in early life, and his utter abandonment in his latter days and not
be stricken with a salutary dread of the inscrutable judgments of a just God?. Who can read the
life of Judith, and not wonder?--of Susanna, and not love chastity and confide in God? Who
has read the prophecies of Isaiah, and not believed the gospel which he foretold? And what
example of a suffering of our lord and savior Jesus Christ as full, so perfect, and expressive
as that exhibited in the life of Jeremiah? If thus, then from the beginning to the day of
Christ, the Spirit of God instructed mankind in truth and virtue, by writing for their instruction
"the Lives of the Saints," what can better agree with the ways of
that God the omnipotent, than to continue the record--to prolong the
narrative?

If this mode of instruction has been adopted by the master himself, should it not be continued
by the servant? If employed when the people of God were only one family, should it not be
resorted to when all nations were enrolled with that people? If this mode of instruction was
found useful when the knowledge of the Lord was confined to one province, should it not be preserved
when that knowledge covered the whole earth even as the waters cover the sea? And is it not
therefore with justice we have said that "The Lives of the Saints" might not improperly be designated
"an historical supplement to the Old and New Testaments?"  And in good truth, who can peruse
the life of Peter, and not be animated with a more lively faith? Who can read of the conversion
of Paul, of his zeal and labor, and unbounded love,--who can enter with him into the depths of
those mysterious truths which he has revealed, and contemplate along with him the riches of the
glory of the grace of God, and not esteem this world as dung; or experience some throes of those
heavenly desires, which urged him so pathetically to exclaim, "I {011} wish to be dissolved,
and to be with Christ?"
 The
backgrounds are great, those stranges come to the northern seas.the beautiful scene, glowing
sun and lovely blue skies are at their best.The music is so sweet and peacefull.in Hebridean
seas there is Mr. Black who is has cute girls, yachts.The mindblowings sky is shining is looking
very attractive.
its very stange that why his last book is not succesful, and what
is the reason that the music is empty in ancient time. The national cash register was a sufficient
means of keeping accounts as well as bank books. Both of these worked for a cash only business.
For the most part, along the black neighborhoods only a few whites
lived. Of thes most were jews. Henry was a man who, in his public life, never delegated
tasks to others if he thought he could do the work himself. He carried these ideas into his
private life, leaving behind a pattern of Christian kindness, lowliness of mind, generosity,
and true friendship, which both rich and poor alike strove to imitate.

Bishop Courtenay was said to have been one of Henry's best friends, drawn to him by the singular
qualities of mind and heart combined.
 "Is it possible to join you" "No please, I would go alone"
"You are being mean to me" I added while touching her hand. "I want to be happy with you, just
take my hand"

"I hate you" she said, while pulling of her hand and crying. "I rather you leave to your home
since I hate you" after that she faced the other way as though she
was trying to avoid me. "I am sure you would love me tommorrow" I
replied confidently. 

She covered herself like a very alert and attentive cricket when the brisk hunters chased in
futile. She saw them moving fast from her hiding place with their cruel eyes looking like pointed
weapon. They were searching everywhere while she was shaking with sitting frightened in the
bushes apart expecting her home to be abandoned by her anguish heart. The time was very Weary
the hours; and the sun set down, and quickly the night spread all
over the woods and Wiwaste's head. Mr.
Neilson was the luckiest of the twenty candidates applying for the position. He was given the
title of foreman of the Glasgow Gasworks, in August 1817. This position was to be for five
years, with a salary of 90L each year. However, before his term reached its end, he was asked
to continue the work for another six years. For these six years, his salary increased to 200L.
He was given the title of manager, as well as engineer of the works. Because of his skill
and competence, his salary increased incrementally to 400L annually. He was also provided with
a free house. Mr. Neilson's specific skills were highly suited for his management position
at Glasgow Gas-works. During his thirty year reign, he successfully extended the central works of
the company and started branch businesses in both Partick and Tradeston. In 1847, after serving
the company for thirty years, he resigned. "See what my love caused her to do! What is at all the good!"

"She told that she didn't love you back then, Luc Michee," exclaimed
Parpon, breaking into the conversation ."You are an idiot as well
as a sinner Luc Michee.

Say something, Junie."

"I did use to tell him that I did not love him; only that I liked him. However, I am truthful still.
Now I love him."
A noise of glee escaped from Luc's lips, and he reached his arms out to her, but that was stopped
by the Cure. "No, not here," said he. "The sins you own must first be thought about. For penance--"He
stopped, gazing at the two sad as well as happy in front of him.
The deep wisdom of life that he posessed him to go on gently: 
"You
shall endure the remembrance of one another's sins as your penance.
To God the Father now--" While
I was phoning to a person the operator without any reason switched me to the supervisor. Now
I think he done this by the inspiration of Olympus. Anyway I talked to the supervisor and explained
that I am a busy person although the charge of the War Office , Timper control and L.D.C.S were
missing at the moment. She behaved politely and asked my number, name, address , the date and
time of the day , the number of times I rung up and to whom and when and all. She even asked my
date of birth and whether I was single and all .Then I protested. The capricious leader, a pluralist, would vary between acting as a French regular, volunteer
guard commander, or patriot of Corsica dependent on the situation, rather than a conscience that
he lacked. He would seize Sampiero's position of liberator through manipulation.

In Ajaccio, devout Roman Catholics found refuge from the new order, suppported by most of the town's
leaders. They sympathized with the Catholics, even though some were much more liberal themselves.
Buonaparte's second battalion took up stations throughout the town and surrounding it in collusion
with the goverment, with various excuses given for their presence. According to primary sources
of considerable credibility, the National Assembly's recent enacted pastoral policies were used
as reason to insist upon the removal of the Capuchin monks from their friary, even though they
had long been undisturbed.

Tensions built, and on April first, many other volunteer companies were called upon to assist
in maintaining the public order. Zealots from both the political and religious factions issued
threats and prepared for an outbreak of violence, all the while catching the moderate people
between them. They wanted peace at whatever cost, yet they sympathized with the Catholics. Individual
conflicts built into clashes of civilians against volunteer guards, giving reason for the military
leader to take control. Beyond the town's citadel lay the Capuchin's house, and it was overtaken
in the initial siege, with the ultimate prize being the citadel. Though the leader's identity
remains uncertain, he was believed to be Buonaparte himself by the townspeople.
 It came to my knowledge of an article
that was titled, the Sufferinges of the Ladye Jane of Westmorlande, who dyed in Exile. By T.C.
Maybe I will use the opportunity at a later time to interest you of an account of this superbly exciting
MS.
EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.
Gray and Dodsley.-- As the HERMIT OF HOLYPORT has repeated his Queries on Gray and Dodsley,
it is imperative that I make a second attempt to answer these queries with much precision, assured
that no man is more disposed than himself to disseminate this information for others to enjoy.

1.

Gray: In the first edition of the Elegy the epithet in question is droning; and so it stands
in the Poems of Gray, as edited by himself, in 1753, 1768, &c.
2. Dodsley: The first edition of the important poetical miscellany which bears his name was
published in 1748, in three volumes, 12mo.
BOLTON CORNEY.
* * * * *
MISCELLANEOUS.
NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

In the series of Classical Dictionaries, The New Classical Dictionary of Biography, Mythology,
and History can be considered to be the third most important of that series for which mankind owes
its gratitude to the knowledge of Dr Smith.

The contents of the present Dictionary can be classified into three sections. Firstly, the Biographical,contains
all the historical names which are classified by importance which occur in the Greek and Roman
writers.

These writers have written works which are known to have had some influence upon their respective
literatures. Not forgetting artists in antiquity.
In the Mythological division may be noticed first, the prejudiced, as yet not adequately attended
to, between the Greek and Roman mythology, and which in this volume is shown by giving an explanation
of the Greek divinities under their Greek names, and the Roman divinities under their Latin names;
and, secondly, what is of the result, careful to avoid as far as possible all indecorous references
in the respective histories of such divinities mentioned earlier.

Lastly, in the Geographical portion of the work by Dr Smith, which is the most important volume, very
few changes to the text will be discovered of names happening in the chief classical writers.

This summarized outline of the contents of this New Classical Dictionary will give our readers satisfaction
that Dr. Smith has produced a volume, not only of huge value to those who are entering upon
their classical studies, but one which will be found a very useful
notebook for the scholar and the students who are pursuing further
studies on that subject.

The Greek Church, A Sketch, is the last of the Shilling Series in which Mr. Appleyard has accounted
{486} for the various sections of Christendom, with a view to their ultimate reunion. Similar
to its predecessors, the volume is good-humored and worth reading,
but being historical rather than doctrinal, the series is scarcely
calculated to give the uninformed reader an accurate depiction of
the creed of the Greek Church. It may be used, however, to assure
us that the bitterness of religious debate and the mutual jealousy
of Church and State, which causes uneasiness in many people today,
was more than matched in the days of Constantine and Athanasius.
The last part of the Transactions of the Academy of Sciences of
Berlin contains two papers by Jacob Grimm, which will no doubt be
examined with great interest in this state. Leonardo Bruni, aka. Leonardo Aretini, in his place of birth
Arezzo, translated five dialogues of Plato in addition to the letters.
The first notice of this editis in the Catalogue Bolongaro-Crevenna
(Amst.

1789), where it is said to have 52 printed leaves. You can see it from the price list printed
after the sale in 1790 that it wasn't sold, but was retenu, faute de commissions ou de concurrence,"
and could still be obtained at 15 florins. There was no trace of it found since. Panzer and
Hain were therefore able to copy the catalogue description. Philippe (1885) described Heynlin's
copy, which is help by the University of Basel library, as being only a blank leaf, 49 printed
leaves and the end having two more blank leaves.
 

It never occured to him that the citizens of russia were capable of burying thier beloved capital.
In france such a thing would be unheard of. The French are culturally jingoistic at heart.
The horseman of the Russian plain on the other hand are no pompouse courtesans or civilized
poets! Their rugged envioroment breeds severity. Some people like
some artist miss the bigger scope of life through staring to intently
at the heavens. It is with the small and intimate detail that the
greater truths are fully revealed. It isn't right
that a soldier shall steal things from a citizen. That is betrayal of the task, and it's
gotten so that men won't defend their nation unless they get some profit from it. Allen to
Cromwell, 2/16
 Thatcher 3d. one day, and rogues 1-1/2d. T. Gill.
Literary questioning .-- Of all human questioning, ancient and modern plebeian or patrician,
nothing is as it is now in successful practice in the lists of literature. The Zoilo the penny
newspapers have criticized never been written or said so bitterly seasoned as some of the serious
laudatory articles where authors are interviewed to zero in the popular test. Montgomery Satan
is fun with the name of Isaiah, Miss Landon by a comparison with La Rochefoucauld, and Mr.
Trueba, with Pigault le Brun. This is a refinement of cruelty.

Twinning is rack with flowers and hang a man with a gold cord. The expression of criticism's
must be "Yes, yes and no, no!" A party Barmecide of fame is a supererogation of evil. We hold
that all authors, so derided the right to ask their critics to repair their words, and build
castles with their vision of Fata Morgana (like London Bridge in the nursery rhyme), complete
with gravel and stones or "with silver and gold. " A heavy fine should be imposed on literary
Edinburgh .-- questioning Tait's Magazine.
View of the Cross (in Spanish). - Suddenly rose Fernando Alfonso Riberro from his bed and out
of his shop to look fierce and sword in hand - sworn to total annihilation of all defects
in Castile.
And the king with great dispatch, immediately ordered a strong body of cavalry that - there was
a mouse scratching behind the frieze.
So, Queen Mary, rising majestically on his throne, Imperial, but soft eyes, exclaimed a sweet voice
- "Poll Scratch your head."
There was a lot of gay Knights to follow the hunt - the rats are offered many good sports.
These Spanish satire samples collected in the form of cross-treatments, a few months after the
death of Cervantes, but is said by the illustrious writer, so I really
do not know. R.N. 
Clock Canyon .-- In gardens Palacio Real de Luxembourg
in Paris, is a model of this device invented by Rousseau. A burning
glass is established on the vent of a cannon, so the sun's rays when
it passes over the meridian, is concentrated by the glass, priming,
and the piece is fired. The Atwood's
machine is consequently constrained onto us; as towards its construction, it is, as you are conscious,
calm of two upright columns, with a cross-bar installed with pulleys and rows, and is intended
towards appear the movement of bodies acting below a constant force--the
drag of gravity, towards wit.

But already consult everybody the genuinely glorious consumes towards which those equivalent pulleys
may be swung within lowering and lifting unobserved that "ball of cotton" across the two apertures,
whilst the else rows with the weights roped are dangling ahead of the bore eyes of the peasants.
I need alone degree out that when the complete corporate trooped out of the room, Randolph
was the last towards flee it, and it is not already difficult towards conjecture why.
'Of what, otherwise, possess we convicted Randolph? For one thing, we possess guided that via
marks of feet within the snow preparation was made earlier for concealing the inflict of the earl's
death. That mortality ought consequently possess been at lowest expected, foreknown. Thus we
convict him of trusting it. And otherwise, via an independent rope of deduction, we can also
discover the processes via which he expected it towards occur.

It is noticeable that he did not hope it towards befall when it did via the hand of Maude Cibras--for
this is proved via his information that she had deserted the neighbourhood, via his evidently
genuine astonishment at the sight of the finished window, and, above everybody, via his actually
morbid yearn towards establish a princely, an irrefutable alibi for himself via going towards
Plymouth onto the day when there was every reason towards imagine she would do the deed--that
is, onto the 8th, the day of the earl's invitation. On the fatal night, indeed, the equivalent
morbid willingness towards construct up a noticeable alibi is observable,
for he surrounds himself with a cloud of witnesses within the upper
chamber.

But that, you shall admit, is not nearly so heavenly a one as a ride, say, towards Plymouth
would possess been. Why otherwise, trusting the mortality, did he not rob a number of such journey?
Obviously because onto this occasion his personal presence was necessary. When, within conjunction
with this, we recall the fact that during the intrigues with Cibras
the teaches were discontinued, and again resumed immediately onto
her unlooked-for exodus, we reach the culmination that the processes
via which Lord Pharanx's mortality was expected towards befall was
the personal presence of Randolph within conjunction with the political
speeches, the candidature, the class, the apparatus.

 

Saint Foutin de Varaillles was honored as a God in Provence, but this is not a surprise, because
he had the gift of being able to grant barren women the ability to have children, energizing
weak husbands and healing their unknown illnesses. "Plus
that's a lie. Mr. Treylon is the most honest and giving and manly man I've every met, and maybe
I've been too admiring of that and that's sad and my misfortune. Contact
with certain molds can lead to serious health conditions.
Tilletia caries, primarily found in wheat, is most often found in bran and meal products. Ingesting
it induces paralysis of the throat and spinal cord, as well as irritation of the gastro-intestinal
tract.
Some rusts, notably Puccinia graminis and P. arudinacea, induce diarrhea
and colic. More rarely, ingestion leads to full or partial throat-paralysis.
 Now we come to note the strong links between
the Odyssey and Romantic Art, which suggests the infinite through the finite form.
A good example of this is Dante, his famous poem is a single great
struggle between the limited symbol and the unlimited spirit. But,
he had to leave. Then Aguirre said firmly:
"Don't think logically. Just relax. Don't analyse love. Practicality and conformity aren't for
people in love. Say yes, and Fate will work everything out."
Luna, the seriousness of the situation somehow lifted by Aguirre's own severe expression and
passionate words, laughed lightly.

"Sweethearts in the Spanish fashion?.. Trust me, I want to say yes. You'll leave me like you've
forgotten others, no doubt; and I'll only have the memories of you to treasure. That would be
splendid. We'll see each other and talk about our daily lives. No public adoration. No displays
of affection. But all will be well. We'll be sweethearts; I'd love to see what it's like."

She spoke with a smile on her voice, her eyes just barely closed, like a child whose enthusiasm
is growing upon hearing a new, interesting game. Suddenly her eyes opened wide, a new thought
crinkling her brow in consternation. She blanched.

But Aguirre already knew the thought in her mind. She was going to tell him about the man to
whom she was already engaged, of her Jewish fiancé in America and who may someday return. But
after only a moment of hesitation she relaxed, sill silent. Luis was thankful for this. She
kept the past in the past, like all women in the initial stages of love do.
"Alright. We'll be sweethearts. Well, consul? Say something kind and sweet to me, the way a Spanish
sweetheart would say to someone they love."
That morning Luna went home and was slighty late for the lunch hour. Her family was waiting for
her, already impatient. Zabulon cast a stern glance at his niece. Her cousins Sol and Estrella
spoke of her, but not to her, jokingly. The head of the household's eyes moistened as he spoke
of Spain and the consul.
Meanwhile, the latter stopped in front of the Hindu market to speak with Khiamull. Overflowing with
such joy as he was, he had to share his news with someone. The Hindu's jealousy showed itself
in his frequent coughs and the wry curve of his lips.
"Khiamull, there is nothing like love! Believe me, I have experienced much. You are ill and will
die some day, never having seen the sacred river of your native land. You need someone to be
with, a girl from Gibraltar.. or, perhaps, from La Línea; a half Roma, with a cloak, flowers
in her hair and an enticing way about her. Is this not true, Khiamull?..."
The Hindu smiled his disdain and shook his head. No. To each their
own. A Hindu, he lived alone among the whites according to his own
wishes. There's nothing man can do against the congenialities and
antipathies of their ancestry. Brahma, who is the sum of divine knowledge,
divided everyone into castes. 
"But, wait! Khiamull! In my mind
the type of girl I've just described is not worthy of scorn...." 

When he married Sarah Jennings, a lady in attendence on Princess Anne and the second duaghter of the
Duke of York, increased his influence and his prospects of his future. Not long after their
marriage, he accompanied her father ona trip to Scotland. On the way, they were nearly shipwrecked.
It was then that the Duke pledged to protect his favorites. Despite this, many Scottish nobles
died under his watch.Upon his return to London in 1682, he was made him colonel of the third regiment
of guards by the King. He ascended to brigadier-general in 1685 when the Duke of York became
King.
Churchill had a chance to show his miltary tact and his gratitude to his king when the Duke of Monmouth
started a rebellion. He served as major-general to Lord Feversham, the commander of the forces.
The campaign would be short, however. Caught off guard, the royal army was quickly overwhelmed
by the rebels. Never awaken from his sleep, Feversham and his officers were caught completely
off guard. Fortunate for James II, Churchill prevented the complete rout of the royal army.
By quickly organizing a counterattack, allowing for the bulk of the
army to reorganize.

Due to his ablilty, England was spared another regecide.
Churchill's mind, however, did foresee James II attempts to re-establish Catholicism in a very
Protestant England. When the king attempted to do just that, he wrote to the monarch to point
out, in firm but respectful terms, the danger of his conduct. Churchill even told the Lord
of Galway, if the king's actions continued, he would resign from his post. This behaviour is
unexceptable. His duty was to his country, his second duty was to his benefactor. When these duties
are brought into conflict, a chivalrous man has but one option. His role is to hold his post
and perform his assigned role. He must not abandon his public duty for his p If Churchill had
acted on his impulses and ignored or opposed his former master, no one could anything reprehensible
in his conduct.
Churchill did not act virtuous, and therefore had arisen as an ineffaceable spot on his memory.
Instead of giving up his post, Churchill wisely used as a post to hurt James II rather than aid them.
So far were the representations of Churchill from having inspired any doubts of his fidelity,
he actively used five thousand of Prince of Orange Island against the king. At the very time that
he accepted that command, he had, if we may believe his Ledyard, signed a letter, along with several
other peers, addressed to the Prince of Orange, inviting him to come over, and had actually
concluded with Major-General Kirk, who commanded at Axminster, a
convention, for the seizure of the king and giving him up to his hostile
son-in-law. Dear sir,I am your affectionate humble servant
regarded with respect sentiments.[285]
Friendship of Washington and Patrick Henry is to be appreciated, which have begun many years ago
with its own unique intimacy and of noble deeds. With progress deep and true intimate friendship
between the two men bound them-- probably increased in the House of Burgesses with strength and
tenderness, and with but a single episode of hostility, during the rest of their lives. If any
one tries to interpret the basis of moral and intellectual habits on which that friendship lasted
later career of Patrick Henry, especially after the establishment of the government under the
Constitution, and who leaves out of the account Henry's great depth friendship for Washington,
and , will lose an important cords to the perfect naturalness and consistency of Henry's political
course during his last years.
In the parting of the ways of Washington and of Jefferson, Patrick Henry no longer walked with
Jefferson. A violent call for partisan outcry burst against him in Virginia. He was denounced
as a political renunciation bitterly because, Patrick Henry was never Washington's follower
nor Jefferson's: he was no man's follower. Patrick Henry had a closer and a truer moral tie up with
Washington than with Jefferson who always evaluated his thoughts.
To project the subsequences, we for the time being is not narrating the incident that has just
been told in the relations between Washington and Henry. Washington was very slow in confidence
building process, who developed love quickly and exited from that easily and never forgot the
proof of his friend's friendship.The letters sent between them until that one year in which they
both died were proof of two strong men who loved and trusted each other without reserve.
Patrick Henry wrote two letters to Richard Henry Lee not long before the close of the governor's
second term in office, indicating the cordiality between these two great rivals in oratory
and also expose both on the under-currents of bitterness then prevailing
the politics of Virginia, and Patrick Henry's attitude towards politics
of the nation.

"You are again maliciously stating by a certain set who have attracted
others, who say that you are engaged in a scheme to discard General
Washington." I was informed, at my own request, that
she was receiving regular detail of my proceedings. Given to her by the clearical prig, her
neighbour and admired. This prig was related to one of the croupiers. Because Dane and Cassandra had never told anyone of
their love, this concealment could very well have continued to prey on their damask cheeks. Mrs.
Vaizey naturally had not wished to present a large, emotional scene of promise. It is the way
that these things are done that drives my homage. "Ah, Ellen! How shall I live without her?! Join
me in wishing success to our own Mr. Stukely! To his good health and happiness! May he make himself
at home."
The minister's mood quickly grew more cheerful and the hour passed
with pleasant conversation. When Dr. Mayhew arrived to fetch him,
the gentleman left us in very good humor. 

To sum it up, she said:
"My husband's a traditional farmer who doesn't use modern things. So naturally, I don't get
any help with my 'women's work' even though we all know women are the real heads of the household.
But still, I would follow him if he ever chose to move on. I wonder
if other's out there feel the same way?" Thievery was done by her, the same way it frequently had been in the
past, on a certain day in the monastery to which Declan belonged.

She stole something known as a habellum, roughly translated as a tributary device. She headed
home with it, and on her way, a gathering of people caught her up in their crowd both on the road
and on the ground. She threw the hidden tablet away, and it fast became a rock that the travelers
haded over to Declan himself. He'd had a divine vision of everything that had happened, the female
and her comeuppance, and this vision helped Declan's own reputation both among those present
for it, and those not. That particular tablet is to this day buried in Declan's graveyard,
in his hometown, Ardmore-Declain. Its elevated place memorializes its supernatural connotations. 
A
wealthy fellow, Fintan, had an infertile wife, so their marriage was a childless one. He went to
visit Declan, whom he'd heard would pray for his ability to procreate, and promised Declan both
monetary reward, and to be a more moral person. They were sure that Declan had the power to ask
God for this, and that his prayer would be granted. Forthwith, Declan did so and gave them his
blessing, and told them, "Go forth to your house, and granted the divine miracle, you will procreate."
The couple went back, with much excited rejoicing. The next night, when Fintan and his wife
attempted to conceive, the miracle occured, and she gave birth to males twins, whom they named
Fiacha and Aodh. They, along with their children and their children's children, were forever bound
to serve God and Declan.
 The natural instincts of this quite lovely moth open it up for this type of vulnerability.

The ruby-throat is generally unafraid. It will flit about among humans
without a thought of caution.

It adds a beautiful hum to the conversation that is quite charming. One time, before a large crowd
of human onlookers, one of these delightful little creatures sucked the calyx of a honeysuckle
held in my hand one at a time until it was sated.
However, even with all this friendly and beauiful persona in mind,
the creature can be deadly, too. It will attack without any provocation,
striking with its sharp beak again and again, until victorious or
slain. As all attempts to win back her husband's affections failed, as he still
preferred the vile seductress, the wife decided that at an appropriate time she would confront
her husband and let him know how desperately unhappy she was and warn him of dire consequences.
 You've never done such a thing ever."
Smiling quite faintly, Laura said,
"Yes, it was something like that. A whirl, it all was. You do not know; he was a ruffian." 
"I'd
preferred to have murdered him myself, you know, in a duel, in all
fairness. What say you gentlemen
and gentlewomen? If you offend me to much your trade will wither and die. Isn't Burbo, my close
relative, also one of Pansa's clients? Aren't I the oracle or sage of the theater and it's actors?
I have merely to speak the words, "break your wine jars," and your
business will flourish no more. Amid it are that bare token by the cricket-field
and garden-ground. It's get such the forge amid sure by us, famed a lot of as elan than noesis,
to call blue totally entertainments, as the folks becuase aid to the corruption and override
by morals, to close it away by about the church, the meetinghouse, and the gin-shop-that whatever
credit by these error inward an freer agreement, mayhap came for the startup by a epoch by
gumption, and therefore by avowedly ethics. He equaled Salvini, in the scenes with Iago, but he did not in any point
surpass him or imitate him. The fury shown in the two Othellos is very different. Salvini
fury is fiercer than Rossi rage which has a background in his intensest
suffering. Mr.Gage was rather strongly criticized by the American critics for certain
aspects of his work.The blames are too much or too little condensation, omission of Ritters
maps, inappropriate figures and measurements, tampering the scientific accuracy, and last not
the least adapting the work for the use of Biblical students.It is also a little out of date as it fifteen
years old.According to Ritter many recent works provide us latest
facts about Palestine since his day.

Above all these criticizms the critics praised his fidelity, industry and accuracy in his works.
As Fault finding is the main duty of a critic every author before the reviewer is a culprit.
So they blame the authors for something they can find faults. Moreover an author might have dedicated
years to study this subject but in the case of a critic he only takes hours to find faults in
the author's works. We do not have the right knowledge of the geography of Palestine as Professor
Ritter or Mr.Gage. If these sharp eyed has not pointed out we may not be able to understand the
difference between the real surface-level of Lake Huleh to the description of Mr.Gage.We have
admired the works of Von Raumer and Dr.Robinson about Palestine even though they do not have
the maps. So it is better not to supply maps rather than supplying poor ones.Ther is no harm in
adapting the book to Biblical students by omitting certain topics that are not relevent for
them. As it is written over it it is for the use of Biblical students anyone who do not want
such a book can avoid buying it.  Interesting and important matters about Sinai and Palestine
are included in these four volumes. Journals of travellers are included in this without primitive
narratives. The first part of four volumes are concerns of Mount Sinai peninsula.The routes
to Mount Sinai, the voyage of Hiram and solomon through the red sea to India , the mountains
in these region, about he bedouin tribes of the peninsula, full account of petra all are discussed
in these volumes. In the beginning of second volume there is a comparative view of Syria.There
is a description of the land of canaan and its inhabitants before the conquest of Israelites
and about the hostile tribes outside Palestine.We have the description of Jordan valley, source
of the Jordan , the sea of Galilee, the Caravan road to Damascus, the river to Dead sea, and an account
of travellers who surveyed these region followed by an Appendix in which the discussions of
the site of Capernaum and Tobler's full list of works on Palestine.
 Never rely on the help of others. A business will not be successful if a man does
not rely on himself. FABLE XXXII.  THE FOX AND THE CROW.

The crow took a piece of cheese out of the window. He flew into a high tree in order to eat
the cheese. The Fox observed, and sat underneath the Crow complimenting her beauty. "I objection,
I have never noticed it before, but your feathers are a more subtle white than anything I have
seen in my life!” said the Fox. Since the American cities were unprepared to do certain things
at school level like France, Germany, Italy and England who all had already admitted the necessity
to give more amenities and facilities to the school children, their arguments were even more
strengthened. The experience showed that American cities will have to follow the example of
the European counries. Therefore, why should we not start immediately and give school meals,
school eyeglasses etc. The Committee which was set up on Physical Welfare of School Children
was of the view that with so little information available to them,
it would not be feasible to head start the project.

In addition to this, there was necessity of the large sums of money required to meet the expenses
in this regard.So the project must be started only with full preparedness so that it meets
the desired results

. Afterwards, Mrs. Sheen showed General
Dalton's house to her friend who was wanting to buy a home after returning from living abroad.  
While
viewing the house, Mrs. Sheen and her friend browsed through the first two floors, and everything
seemed to be going well; so, Mrs. Sheen lead her friend to the third floor. When Mrs. Sheen
reached the top of the steps, she heard her friend yell, "I can't go farther. Something is pushing
me back."

Mrs. Sheen quickly ran down the stairs. Was her friend sick? When Mrs. Sheen got to the first
floor her friend said, "A force pushed me back. I'm psychic and I know that the ghost who
lives here would make it impossible for me to live here. I'd love to own this house, but the
ghost will not allow me to live here."
On July 14, 1749, the second auction of lots was held. Brother of Lawrence Washington and half-brother
of George, Augustine Washington, bought lots Number 64 and 65 for
15 pistoles.

On June 15, 1754 a meeting of the trustees was held. During this time, Augustine Washington's
lots, along with other lots, were ordered as follows:
"be sold to the highest bidder at a Public Venue, the several Proprietors therof having failed to
build theron according to the directions of the Act of Assemby in that case made and provided
and it is further ordered tha tthe Clerk do give Public Notice that hte sale of hte said lotts
will be at the Town aforesaid on the first day of August next"(112).
On September 9,1754, lots number 64 and 65 were entered as "sold"
in the minutes of the trustees to William Ramsey for 39 1/2 pistoles,
or 37 pounds 1s.9d. These famous pieces were
composed during the latter part of the MacDowell residence in Boston, just before traveling
to New York to take his post as professor of music at Columbia University. These schemes we
first forests to the point that his poems are definitely Pianoforte sensitive to elemental moods,
unchanged in style and yet distinguish between freedom from commonplace to speak with a personal
text that is unmatched. They are, as a whole, mature poems by an exquisite order nature and
charming, beautiful, not only by its external manifestations, but the deeper meaning they give to
their sources of inspiration.
First For Wild Rose (with simple pain). This is one of the most evocative and famous MacDowell
small parts. It is based on a simple melody of the Brotherton Indians, and has a balance of more refined
and beautiful order. The composer was always afraid of music fans less intelligent "break with
the disorder." A vocal arrangement has been made by Herman Hagedorn, but words are weak and
common emotions, and so unnatural that the song is filled with artistically worthless.
Second or will "lock (Swift and light; capriciously). This is a very imaginative piece, full of
comfort and fast-moving shadows and mysterious. It seems to float just above the keys and
their overall effect is fascinating and as soul, dance a little light flashes in the dark.

Third in an old trysting context (something curiously, not too sentimental). This is the smallest
piece of the game, and is only thirty bars long. It is tight on a page in the current edition
of the sketches. Melody is tender, mountainous and expressive and is supported entirely, but always
ready in line with typical modulations. The width of the string writing, together with the general
tone of the book as a whole, seems to invite orchestral coloration and Tips MacDowell art
period. On the whole, is contemplative, expresses a melancholy that is in a quiet, dreaming
of past meetings there.
Fourth in the fall (cheerful, almost exuberant). MacDowell excited launched an irresistible
tension in this piece (which he did later in the fabulous The Joy of Autumn, New England Idyll,
op. 62). In the year opens with a lively staccato theme, followed
by a small color runs that seem to imply the rustle of wind through
the treetops. Mr. Simeon Brown was convinced that I was not fit to be the
man to take up this responsibility because I was already burdened with so many duties and find
it difficult to keep up with them, particularly under the burden of this new theology. He
felt that if I took on more it will certainly end up in breaking up my church, destroy any
chances I might have to do some good. It will also block the publication of my system.
The Doctor had to tell him that if it was just ‘his’ system the world will not be the loser
if it was never published. If, on the other hand, it was God’s system, nothing could stop its
publication. He also told him that he will not be working on my own. He will depend on Mr.
Brown’s help to keep him going. For him it seemed truly providential that the church had
a great opportunity to witness just how wonderful benevolence without any ulterior or selfish
motives could be. It would be simply marvelous for a man to give up his worldly goods and
forsake his business and testify to the goodness of God above. He urged Mr. Brown to give up
his business of slave trade immediately. He told him that if he did so there will be great rejoicings
in heaven and he will get all the strength and courage needed to preach and serve in the church.

Generally, Mr. Brown is a man who is not easily moved to emotional expressions. He can expound
in a dry and matter of fact manner any theological concept. He would say that it could be matter
of rejoicing if six souls had to be condemned to eternal torment for the saving of thirty six,
and that the sacrifice of the six for the benefit of the other thirty six could be a matter
for rejoicing. Benevolence is not meritorious in itself unless it brings a great deal of good
for a great many. He would say all this without any emotion. His assertion that man must submit
unconditionally would be very painful for a sensitive person to hear. For Mr. Brown benevolence
was not something that was beautiful. His attitude towards this was so cold any one who ventured
to examine it will be shocked by his insensitivity.

But then, however hard hearted a being one might be there is always a tiny opening. Perhaps it
is no bigger than the point of a needle but it is there. And the
Doctor touched this spot when he suggested that Mr. Simeon Brown give
up his worldly business of slave-trade. 

There are many persons to whom half chewed food is a really just like poison.
The dispepsia constitutes an extremely frequent variety.The person
suffering from dyspepsia generally doesnot complain of suffring from
stomach.Many of them are of the opinion that their stomach is excellent

 Over a period of time, I began to revert back to the personality
traits I had attained years ago.
Time passed on with little change in my circumstances. One night, I got lost in the woods while
hunting, and was trapped in the forst overnight - unable to find my way back home. I grew tired
and weary as I traveled through the forest trying to find some sign of civilization. Suddenly,
I saw some light through the trees. As I approached the light I noticed that it was coming from
a strange looking building. The building looked old and worn down as if no one had attended to
it for years. However, the building also had wing which looked as if it had been recently added
- very strange indeed. In my present state, however, I felt no reluctance to banging on the door to
acquire admittance. After several attempts at knocking, with no answers, I decided to try
to gain entrance to the building by myself. I lifted the latch and entered the building. I
looked around in the dim light and saw nothing but the charred remains of a fire lit long ago.
The room was totally empty - abandoned. I prayed to the Gods to thank them for this shelter.
I then fell upon the floor, noticing the damp, coldness, but unable to care due to my weariness.
Soon I had fallen into a deep sleep.
My restless slumber was interrupted by the beating of drumsticks on my skull. Wakening, I came
to the realization that I was losing my mind. THe room had changed as I slept - I was taken
back to that circle of rocks. I saw the familiar group of figures and heard the voice of Heidelberger
rhythmically speaking:
Beware to the stranger who invades our privacy. He has provoked our wrath. We shall possess his
soul before the year is ended. If this soul cannot prove his loyalty, then his body and soul will
be ours forever.
Upon hearing these words I sank into a deep sleep of protection. My mind could not handle the words
or the atmosphere produced by them. When I awoke, it was bright daylight and the forest was
alive with animal sounds.
I returned to my home and fought against the visions I had seen. I wrapped myself in ordinariness.
My days became ritualistic - soothing and steady. My only passion was my son. He was fully
grown now, but had grown into a young man of frail health. I insisted that he be accompanied wherever
he went. He was my only bright light in the madness, and I could not suffer his loss.
Over time, the memories of that day began to fade. My strength of spirit began to bolster and
grow. I had almost forgotten the warning of the passage of the year. I was excited about the
hunting party that was created to mark the birth of my son.

Entering the forest, I was innundated with the sounds and smells that marked the cleaness, the earthiness
of the setting. I began to grow uneasy as I progressed through the forest. My mind returned
to the thought that the year mark would end tonight. I suddenly felt a lifting of my soul as
I felt a gentle breeze and a lift of the darkness - I was emerging from the forest. As I walked
into an opening, I noticed a single pone tree growing in the middle of a small lake. I had
never seen this area before, and it surprised me, as I knew this forest and the land.
SUddenly, my progress was impeded as my beloved horse, halted and was unable to move any further.
In the distance I could hear the hunting party - the baying of the hounds after some unknown
beast. I was suddenly surprised as the baying came closer, and out of the woods into the clearing
came that familiar, yet dreaded creature that had caused so much trouble.
I stared in disbelief with a swear on my tongue. THe boar turned to
me with anger and fury written within its features. I knew I would
have to take my chances with this creature - my horse was incapable
of going on. I was on my own. During the Elizabethan era it was very fashionable to wear "posie rings" (aka poesie
rings)containing sayings such as God saw fit this knot to knit, Let
likinge Last, and Remember the ? that is in pain, that were etched
into the ring.

 It was but a moment. Hand pulled from the face: it was pale,
but without tears, and went from the terrace of her chamber with a slow but firm step. Two
hours later, the Countess sought her services, but in vain, a letter was found addressed to his master,
and fastened to one long, shiny dark Raven pole, which everyone knows they are hers.
Leaving home to the dismay and confusion caused by this variation, we follow the steps Countess,
which is now en route to Genoa. Waited, but continue Serge black dress to a rookie St. Caterina,
she wore, and which knew that it could pass for one of the sisters, who promised to participate
in sick, and during the siesta hour, her escape unnoticed. Giulietta was accustomed from childhood
on Long Wandering to the sea-coast, or through deep pine forests, but now that its purpose had
his power, she felt sadly tired, though the almost deserted road, when overtaken by a man
who managed a small truck laden fruits and vegetables.

She approached him, and at the same time offer a few piastres to essentially transport of
Genoa, as there was bound to its partner.
"Plague," he said, "makes everything so rare that my garden seemed a little luck, it's bad wind
that nobody blows good."
"Are you afraid of infection? asked seemingly sister Charity.
"There is no danger of winning anything. Ducats correct lining is the best medicine for plague,"
returned the gardener.
"Holy Madonna," thought Giulietta, the "I record the gratitude and love dear danger this man to risk
a few ducats?
Neighborhood, where her uncle standing at the entrance of the palace in the city, and to achieve
that had to go through the main street. How has the last countess went this way! Then it was
full of gay equipages Gayer and society. She referred to the six white mules with their gold
ornaments, which drew a coach emblazoned with her uncle, and as he leant back in his purple
velvet cushions, hardly dared to look in the middle of the crowd-white plume Cavaliers, who
reined in their brave curvettings ori, deceit that it should comply
with Lorenzo da Carrara in the eye, and sell its entire mystery of
the blush. Lieutenants Pickering and Lechmere lay in bed dangerously ill, and eventually
died of their wounds.

Captain Howe was severely wounded and taken prisoner, where he remained without surgical aid
for the duration of the battle. The narrator states that Lieutenant Jones was "ridding himself
of the enemy," and tried to break out and escape, but was run through the hear with a bayonet.

Coloun, whose party was now being commanded by Beaujeu, and Lusignan were both crippled by their
wounds, were carried back to the houses on the Gaspereau, where a French surgeon was staying. Beaujeu
commanded the party to move out and find others who might need help. The air was loud with the sound
of musket fire, and the clouds were so dense that it was difficult to see bodies of men running
to and fro. It was even more difficult to tell friend from foe, or to see who was winning. Beaujeu's
party eventually met up with Marin's, which was comprised of 25 Indians, still reeling from the
loss of the house they had attacked.

Now, daylight was breaking, and although they still trudged through the snow, it was no longer
dark. They were soon joined by two more parties, those of Colombiere and Boishebert, which
each said that they were fortunately enough to capture a house, and that their united strength
meant they could make an attack on the buildings where the English were storing supplies.
They did so, and were able to take ten prisoners. In broad daylight, the rest were still unable
to see through the heavy snow in order to tell whether they had succeeded or failed, so Marin was
sent to find La Corne, who was acting as the chief commander. Two hours later, he returned and
said that the English who had not been attacked had banded together with others who were still
alive and free, and they were gathering at the base of the house in the middle of the village,
although they were blockaded by La Corne.

La Corne was, indeed, at the place where Noble had been killed, and he had a clear musket shot
of the house where the English had gathered. The French were currently firing upon the building
from hiding places, and the English were returning the fire from
inside the house. Neither side sustained many losses until the English
captain attempted to take over the house where La Corne was. The two
companies fought, with the English floundering helplessly throughout
the snow since they did not have snowshoes. As the English stumbled
through the snow, unable to use their guns, La Corne's company rained
gunfire upon them, and the English eventually fell back. Finally,
in the afternoon, the French flew the white flag. While headquartered primarily in Oronoco, Humbolt managed to file
a vast array of meticulously collected facts detailing nature on
the Southern American continent.

Described as logical in the extreme rather than overwhelmingly passionate, he observed the
order of things in every context he encountered. Unlike other scholars, whose awe for creation
and reverence for a Creator permeated their writings, Humbolt focused on the observable details
without connecting them overtly to an established philosophical or religious system of belief.
This gained him some fame, particularly given the incredible accuracy of his perceptions, but
also lead and continues to lead to some complaints about his lack of faith, fervor, and devotion
to God. He does not write about angelic hosts, creationism, or the way that nature illustrates
the divine plan, nor does he appear to recognize a connection between the details collected by science
and the wisdom found via divine revelation and thus in the words of the Bible. Nevertheless,
some of his readers who want to find spirituality in his work do claim there is some evidence
of deference to faith in his book Cosmos, which describes the interconnected order of all things,
high and low, in a manner that, with a little imagination, can be credited to the perception
of a divine order, a holy truth, and the fruits of reflection on beauty, rather than simply and
entirely to scientific observations.

The Andes are the subject of the American painter Frederic Edwin Church's gorgeous and powerful
landscapes. These capture the Andes without being portraits of particular locations; rather
they are collections of accurate details from across the experience of the painter joined
in creations that render idealized beautifications of the landscape. It is clear that Church shows
us the Andes, particularly in his portrayals of light and darkness, but no specific places
in the Andes are a precise match to what he painted. Realists may differ regarding the interpretation
of his work, as some who prefer landscapes to be real in particular detail and attributable to
a source location will not be satisfied, but many critics, including those with broader views
of art, are sure to recognize the value of Church's derivations from nature despite their sourcing,
to some extent, in his own imagination. It is possible to view his works as compressive of nature,
intense concentrations of details that, if painted individually from life on a 1:1 scale,
would fill dozens, even hundreds, of canvases for each one that he used.

Having seen the mighty Andes myself and tried to put my impressions of them into words, I understand
the advantages painters have -- a painting can be worth a thousand new words almost each time
it is studied, and details can continue to emerge on repeated viewing until, at last, everything
is finally known, if it can be known, after years spent with a particular image. That's much
more difficult to do with words, but I've committed to trying to describe this range of mountains,
the scenery that all but struck me dumb with its incredible and awesome glory. It stays in my soul
as surely as a beautiful song lingers in the mind long after the music stops.
The tallest mountains in this range are relatively close to the coast, within 160 km or so,
but the climb up from the Pacific must cover far, far greater distances. You can see, on a
clear day, these mountaintops even from the sea and from the beaches, though fog or the tropical
equivalent does routinely put a curtain between the edge of the ocean and anything inland. Chimborazo
is, despite this, a noticeably snow-covered feature hanging over
the skyline in the reddish light of dawn and in twilight, like a huge
extraterrestrial vessel landing from space.

It is a striking sight. It reminded me of the Aurora Borealis as it sometimes appears in the
northeastern United States, when the wild lights of winter dye the snow under foot the color
of boiled lobsters. Making mortar joints in brick walls is very tedious work that requires caution, especially
in determining where the joints show on the external or internal face. The most difficult aspect
of the job is that the joint must be water proof, durable and aesthetically pleasing and similar
to the appearance of the overall work. Architects recommend that joints be made very shortly
after the brick is laid, while the mortar is soft. They also recommend that bricklayers use
their trowel to create a smooth, sloping surface -- especially when creating weather joints
where the joint slopes outward. Inward sloping is not good because it is not waterproof. 
Sometimes
bricklayers will finish the joint with a hollow on the face. Most bricklayers, though, prefer
to rake out mortar joints and then point them -- in other words, they scratch out an inch to an
inch and a half of mortar. After this they finish the joint with new mortar and "point" this
mortar. This method is necessary where brickwork is exposed to frost. Frost damages external
mortar in joints. Besides being necessary, raking and pointing joints allows bricklayers more
options in the appearance of the work. Unfortunately, this method of raking and pointing is
not the most stable and is more likely to decay. Tuck pointing -- raking out and filling up
the joint and then making another mortar joint in the middle of this
-- is not very stable either.

Voussoirs are brick arches that are able to carry heavy loads, if they are locked together and
anchored properly to abutments. These arches are always being made in different sizes and
shapes, but they are always made from wedge shaped blocks. Sometimes the bricks are cut and rubbed
or axed to make proper voussoir arch bricks. It is less work, though, to turn these arches
with square bricks. Using square bricks requires that the rings are only half a brick each and the
wedge is much wider at back than at the face. Then they are set in cement. These constructions
are strong and are used in culvert work.
Another type of arch is the flat arch. It is not as good construction as a voussoir. It is
not cambered and the soffit is straight. The brick work is deep and
a real arch supports the load while useless material hangs from this
arch. The
Catalogue of Books in the British Museum which was printed in the XVth Century has been annoted by
Mr. Alfred W. Pollard, M.A. Mr. Pollard is the Hon. Secretary of the Bibliographical Society and an
authority on printed books from this ear. He notes several of the
incunabula are imperfect.

He also ednited the list on incunabula. We greatly appreciate Mr. Pollard's chronological annoted
list which also gives name of the printer and the place of printing.
 When four days apart, on 12 October, Commodore Decatur wing separated
from the rest of the Rodgers and sailed east, and 25th, in lat. 29 degrees. N., and long term.
29 degrees.

W. 30 'while going close-hauled on port tack, with fresh winds from the SSE, a sail was descried
on the weather beam, about 12 miles. [Note: Official letter of Commodore Decatur, 30 October.
1812.] It was 38-gun British frigate Macedonian, Captain John Carden Surnam. It was not as Guerriere,
an old ship captured by the French, but newly constructed oak and larger than any American Pounder
18 frigate, she was famous (very wrongly) to be a "crack ship . Footnote [: Marshall "Naval
Biography", Vol IV, p. 1018.] How could it be practiced so much and learned so little is certainly
wonderful.

Macedonian foretop set her mast and top-gallant sails and bore away in studdings Chase, [footnote:
Capt. Carden to Mr. Croker, 28 October 1812.] Cut down the wind a little aft starboard beam.
Her first lieutenant wanted to continue on this course and pass down to the United States,
[footnote: James, vi. 165] but. Capt. Carden over-anxiety to keep him long-Gage missed this opportunity
closing. [Footnote: the sentence of court-martial was held in San Domingo, 74. the Bermudas.
May 27 1812.] Consequently, he towed the wind and the way the U.S. has gone from Windward.
Commodore Decatur that came within range, he eased off and fired a broadside, most of which
fell short [footnote:. Marshall, IV, 1080], he held, and Luff's, and next time he fired his
long said the 24-strong, while he has received very little injury to himself. [Footnote:. Cooper,
11, 178] to fire at the main deck (because he did not use his carronades at all for the first
half hour) was very fast, so it looks like [Footnote letter of Commodore Decatur. ] where
the ship was on fire, its wings were delivered almost twice the speed of English. [. Footnote:
James, vi, 169] The latter soon discovered that could not play at
long bowls with any chance of success, and, having already erred,
either from timidity or evil court, the Captain Carden decided to
include recklessness in its catalog virtues.

Consequently, he wore up, and came to his final opponent, the wind on its port quarter. They
now (10.15) provided the main-topsail them by surprise and made her long play with heavy weapons,
and as they came closer to the player, they also carronades.

British ship had responded to her starboard guns, hauling up to do so, she came down, the U.S.
would ease off, run back a bit and come to, maintaining a terrible fire. As Macedonian worn
down close, forecast its feathers all guns (which were mounted on the outside) have been cut away [footnote:.
Letter of Captain Carden], they fire caused some damage to defraud
the U.S., but barely touched her body while she herself had suffered
so much and so above that alow it declined gradually to leeward, while
the first U.S. plan to reach them.

Finding it before and Windward, Member tacked and ranged under its
opponent Lee when he struck her colors at 11.15, just an hour and
a half after the action starts.

[Footnote: Letter of Commodore Decatur.]

The United States has suffered surprisingly little damage was done what was up. They mizzen
top-gallant mast was cut away, some were wounded spars and rigging
cut a good deal, Hull was hit only once or twice. He was a person of many springs, and waving
his bright compliments about, until it seemed that never before had such friendly people asked for
such a charitable and generous worthy sufferer. In Trieste was a journalist, and was quite clear
from his speech that he was a good education. He was vain of his Italian accent, which was very
good for his hometown heterogeneously populated, and he made a spectacle of this wonderful
facility Triestines language by taking me down French books, Spanish
Books, Books German, and reading to them all properest access.

However, with this boyish pride and self-satisfaction has been mixed a tone of bitter and
worldly cynicism, a belief in providence unique fortune. As near as I can make out, he was a
Johnson man in American politics, the Mexican question he was independent, disdaining French
and Mexicans alike. He was formerly the first, and continued in service after the withdrawal
of Maximilian to Mexico execution, the prince did not merit a place
for adventurous.

He was now going back to his native land rather ungrateful, who had ill treated him long ago,
but he returned, however, a perfectly happy temperament. What was merry rogue, - with such merry
eyes and a smile so pleasing shape neatly trimmed beard and mustache! After having supped, and
sat with us at the door take leave, said something happened to the Italian track, after this exile
cheerfully, that compassion was to allow foreigners to go home after years of toil and danger unprofitable
in a country that they loved, fell to wandering a Venetian Barcarolle, and left his cadence sweet
far. I wore the company regarding the gate of another Italian signor speaking, and there was
bid farewell with great effusion, so I looked until I went to charge it not be in fear of house
dog that barked but did not bite.
 The building has been changed
quite a lot since then. It has had pieces altered and extensions added to it over the years and
throughout its long lifetime it has remained one of the most spectacular treasure stores of
Art in the whole of England. However, if there is land, it must be a fire. For if one of opposites is natural or necessary,
the other must also be necessary, either, in fact, which implies the need for another. Both
are essentially the same as the positive, of course, from the negative, for example, hot or
cold front. And how the silence and gravity from the lack of movement
and lightness, that is, they are essentially forward. I stayed at
the home of a neighbouring Vicar. The Bishop of the diocese had been lunching there before
me, and there was laid out on the table a plate of very fine oranges and Blenheim orange apples
from the Vicar's own garden. The Bishop had been offered and orange apple by the Vicar. The Bishop,
probably never having heard of a Blenheim orange apple before, imagined that the Vicar was referring
to the oranges and exclaimed: "I hadn't any idea that oranges would
ripen in this climate!"

A similar story was told by one Bishop of Worcester, who worked with the Church to aid the
working conditions of hop-pickers. He interviewed one disheveled man claiming to be a worker
in the hop-yards one day, who (according to the Bishop) gave the following account:
"In summer I picks the fruits and peas, in autumn I picks the hops, in winter I picks pockets,
in jail I picks oakum. It keeps me warm during the cold, and when summer comes round I starts
picking fruits again."
My other Vicar gave condensed sermons, conducted with great dignity but with a manner some found
troubling -- especially in his manner to the villages. One afternoon following service, the old
clerk (whom I think the Vicar found a bit officious) announced with great satisfaction that
some visiting strangers had "expressed themselves as well satisfied
with the service."

Presumably the clerk believed himself as responsible for the services
as the Vicar, and met with a rude surprise when the Vicar showed nothing
but annoyance at his presumption.

Later, during the Boxers' revolt and the Siege of Peking (an event closely following the Boer
War), a time when telegrams relating the progress of foreign events were shown in the post-office
every Sunday morning, I saw one day on these telegrams that Peking had been relieved. The
Vicar's sermon was on the subject of the siege's terrors -- his sermon was written the previous
day -- and he painted a frightening picture of the fate of the defenders. After service I
inquired as to whether he was familiar with the news, "Good gracious!", he exclaimed. "I most
certainly did not, and I'm glad, for what would I have done for a sermon otherwise?" I was taken
aback that his sermon took precedence over the announcement of happy news, but it may be that
the congregation would not have taken well a lack of a sermon and a polite dismissal due to the
nature of current events.
One Vicar, in the neighboring parish of Gloucestershire, found morning
services tiring. His patron, the Squire, suggested that the after
Communion service would be better. When the Vicar agreed, the Squire
was even more pleased than the Vicar, because he (the Vicar) was a
singularly boring speaker. (BY THE
PROPHET OF MR.PUNCH)
As several events are coming, to offer the readers of this paper the assistance of my advice
and opinions ,I think is only fair and just. I will concerning Goodwood have something to
tell in due time-- something that shall cause the stone age cauliflower-headed prescribers of bombast
and buncombe to become alert and curse the day in which they come into this world. There are
those who claim the worthiness to the ill-sensed utterings and ignorances of the slack minded group
who are the followers of the most ill famed professor of insane antics
that even in this time, full of conartist fakes, has ever brought
forth. Ah well, let them. I adhere to the words of the French King
to the beautiful Marquise DE CENTAMOURS for my own belief. even so, the niece ate her foodstuff,
the housekeeper drank to the pose of his spirit, and still Sancho appreciated his younger body;
for the human of ordering either dispels or moderates that suffering which an issue ought to
seek at the dying of the testator.
 The elegance of Churchill's
manners and the beauty of his countenance and figure distinguished him, from early youth. The
known loyal principles of his father, and the sufferings he had undergone in the royal cause,
procured for him,when he was only fifteen, the situation of page in the household of the Duke of York,
afterwards James II. The prince procured for him a commission in one of the regiments of guards
when he was only sixteen years, and thus his inclination changed towards arms.
His handsome figure attracted not only the beauties of the court of Charles II but also one of
the royal mistresses herself.He left their seductions, and embarked
as a volunteer in the expedition against Tangiers in 1766.

His first action in arms was made against the Moors.After returning to Great Britain , he
was again attracted by the Countess of Castlemaine,afterwards Duchess of Cleveland , then the
favorite mistress of Charles II.She distinguished him and presented 5000 pounds, before he
embarked for Africa. The young soldier bought an annuity of 500 pounds a-year. Chesterfield
says, this laid the foundation, of all his subsequent fortunes.
Charles, to remove a dangerous rival in her unsteady affections, gave him a company in the guards,
and sent him to the Continent with the auxiliary forces, which, in those days of English humiliation,
the cabinet of St James's furnished to Louis XIV, to aid him in subduing the United Provinces.
It was under Turenne, Condé, and Vauban he learned the art of scientific warfare.Similarly,
Wellington's first campaigns were made against the French in Flanders, his next against the
bastions of Tippoo and the Mahratta horse of Hindostan.
Churchill had not been long in Flanders. The campaign of 1672, which brought the French armies
to the gates of Amsterdam, and placed the United States within a
hair's-breath of destruction.

It was fruitful to him in valuable lessons.He distinguished himself and constantly called himself
"The handsome Englishmen" after the seige of Nimeguen, that Turenne, predicted that he would
one day be a great man. We do not need to question
that volumes could be filled with recountings of sufferings and appaling conditions of cruelty,
resulting, in most cases, with the victim's death. We also do not need to question the more
hated moral abhorrence so prominent in Southern society, which opress the white people even
more so than the black people-- of offspring sired by their masters, the mothers being the slave women--
sired in lust and sold for profit; lovely partially black persons searched for and bought for
the simple pleasure of their owners; of families, where the daughters and wives by law are by
slaves served that happend to be their own kin, such as sisters, brothers, uncles, that were
born to a slave women, who gave in to her master's lust. Amalgamation is a Southern practice
and taste, although not practiced in the North. Although
he had a few months off from work he did not get any rest. This is because he was absent from
work due to losing one of his limbs. The greatest part of the time was spent in continuous pain.
As soon as he began to recover from his injury and the pain, it was time for him to return to
work and resume his duties. However, he was contacted to perform services that were more important.
These duties were greater than any of his former jobs or positions, which were also very tiring.
During the long pursuit of the enemy, he was filled with anxiety about the their mission as well as
their defeat. He constantly worried while staying awake at night, which made the pain from
his injury more intense. These thoughts seem impossible to dismiss as well as nearly fatal
because he could not spare himself from the worry. When he was returning to Italy, he was attacked
with a high fever, which lasted eighteen hours.

However, even when the disorder took a turn for the better and wanted to return to the deck,
he was still so weak from the fever and cough that he thought he was still dying, He wrote
a letter to Earl St. Vincent to tell him how he was doing. He told him about the fever that
he had had since the middle of June. In the letter, he also stated he was filled with anxiety
and did not know if he would see him again. He, however, was resigned to the fact that his
fate was in the hands (will) of God. He also knew his friends were waiting for him in Naples.
 Agnes Jones was not one who always
"Looking for some great thing to do"
and ignoring small service opportunities that are at hand. She was quite content, because the
field has not been more open to them to occupy a smaller one. In a letter to her aunt, she's very
characteristic: - "I tried and even more successful in my eyes down on all the little things
we should be able to do. I believe this is Our safety is Littles everyday as an opportunity
is given, and leaving the problem to God. It is the influence they will have individual, personal
exemption and individual help for mind and body, which will be If we wanted him. He can make others
see Little more than a whole, or see anything done, while we know that Little comfort were made.
"
Nurses and trainees arrived in mid-May, then began work as a joke. Inspection post lady was by
no means a sinecure.

At 5.30 every morning, she could have seen the kitchen door release female. She was often round
sections of 6.0, and all through the day filled up to 11.0 at night, she was fully engaged,
offering shops, superintending nurses her chair at meals, and visiting
patients, in addition All one hundred-and-one duties and requires
falling in a like position. Her altruism was as visible as ever, and
she never thought to save in any way, make her joy was bright and
happy lives of others. We are pleased to know
that the most mysterious and perplexed Greek part of the Geometry is likely to be finally clarified
completely - we mean particularly "Porisms." So many questions and doubts are arising from
the matter respecting the development of Grecian intellect, that the whole debate is not an
easy task, especially those arising from conflicting witness statements furnished in its history and internal
evidences contained in the current works by the "fathers of Geometry." We definetely anticipate
that the reputation is now in the minds involved in this work that
some conclusive evidence that to the state of geometry at the front
of Euclid has given rise to by Daves and Messrs. Potts.

Analysing the writings of all authors who had worked on the Porism, can be an interesting subject
not only for the every author to recieve their fair share of credit for their contributions
to achieve perfectness in the poristic method; but also their purpose is that the critical discrimination
principles, which is one of the major features in Archaeology of geometry authored by Mr. Davies.
We shall be very glad if this little notice of his work gets some support in the form of subscriptions
for the undertaking, because whether the work goes to publishing, or the project is rejected
is dependent on the support it may receive.
The Catalogues received are: - General Catalogue by Thomas Thorpe's (13 Henrietta Street) includes
interesting, Curious, very Choice, and Rare books recently purchased some of the hundreds of
articles also extremely rare. Norgate and Williams' (14 Henrietta Street) No 24 in German
Book Circular, a Quarterly Circular of the list of the most important new publications in the mainland,
CJ Stewart (11 King William Street, West Strand) Catalogue of a Dogmatic Polemic, and Ascetical theology.

[9] On page 200 we found, the Council's order that is dated 5 December. 1737, respecting the disclosure
of the band at the Queen Caroline's funeral, signed by, "the TEMPLE STANYAN," topic the query No.
24 p. 382 And a number of answers in our last one, No. 28 p. 460
------------
WANTED -- MANUSCRIPT OF OLD ENGLISH POETRY:
Borrowed from the Town Residence of a Gentleman within the in last few months, large 4to. MS.
Modern binding, early English Poetry, authored by Richard Rolle, from Hampole, which includes, inter
alia, issues, Religious Pieces formulated in the form of legislation, and metric Chronicle
of Kings of England's style of Lydgate. Since the owner does not remember who borrowed it,
and it is very important to point out, he will be obliged to return immediately either directly
to himself , or better to, the editor in charge of "Notes and Queries." 1636, 8vo., authored
by John Prideaux, Mr. Bishop of Worcester.
Odd Volume.
ARMY LIST August 1814.
-----------------

NOTICE TO THE CORRESPONDENTS.
Our pages also exhibit a large proportion of RESPONSES. Our next number,
which complements our First Volume, will also do the same, as it is,
of course, for the conviennce to our readers that the RESPONSES should
appear in the same volume and as far as possible along with QUERIES,
which they relate to. When writing his historical essay, a well-known writer of the previous
generation, begins by addressing some opinions about Scotland and its native people. He expresses
that when considering the smaller population versus the size of the country, Scotland has made
a significant figure in history. Father, arrive, quick! Here is a Railroad Accident, for example
you have often desired to see. Two teaches have collided, and both have revolved down an embankment
at smallest seventy feet high! into a stream, I manage declare! They are all lost!
F. Do let me glimpse at one time, HELENE I [Looks eagerly.] Ah, yes; all gone; not anything evident
but one smoke-pipe, three stove-pipe hats, four morsels of orange-peel, some pea-nut seashells,
and thirteen exact replicates of the New-York Ledger. Sad fate! But see! Some dry-goods-no,
a juvenile woman flounders along in the direction of the shore! The bystanders hurry up; she is almost
exhausted; trousers rapidly; they commend her. A well-dressed juvenile man approaches. She instantly
starts to believe of her looks; her hand soars to her back hair. Heavens! there is so much
gone there that she shrieks in alarm! Her drop in the water has detached her Waterfall! That
gone, every thing is gone! She jumps to her feet! Glancing hurriedly over the watery waste, now
plentifully strewn with followers, little canes, and certain things which are either mail-bags
or chignons, she descries her better part, and with a untamed bawl, (as when a mother releases her
babe from tigers,) dashes in and seizes the darling object! She presses it to her lips, and impetuously
breaks for the shore! Alas! too late, by about 10 and a half seconds! "Save it!" she appears
to cry; tosses the wad ashore, and down she proceeds, with her hand on the back of her head, her
last ideas, manifestly, more or less, attached with that sympathizing juvenile man on the bank
above.
one, two, three, four and five F. Child, I am all feeling. Boo-hoo-hoo-too!
* * * * *
HORTICULTURAL HINTS.
KITCHEN GARDEN.--Plant pickles early, if you are up in time; if not, later. But don't consume
them late, except you are identically fond of dyspepsia.   In cultivating peas, choose that
kind that does not augment hard and yellow; that is, except you provide boarding-houses, or
have a government agreement for the provide of shot.
Grated turnips, blended with horse-radish, for the table, will assuage one's sorrow for one's
grandmother. Rice-puddings can be developed, ready-made, by sowing rice with cowcumbers. Try
it.
NURSERY.--Transplant from hot-beds to bath-tub when likely, utilising
sponge with palm-soap and freezing water. Top-dress with comb and
brush. Trim limbs as asserted by age. Train with rods. Much counts
on beginning right, so start to school right after breakfast After much chastisement
he habitually dropped ill, and lay some time in mortal danger. "When I was seven years vintage
my dad and my mother were then dwelling apart--my kinsfolk very resolute, for some cause or
other, to give over drubbing me, though perchance a feel of the whip
might then have finished me no harm.

But ill-fortune was ever hovering round me; she let my tribulation take a distinct form, but
she did not eliminate it. My dad, having chartered a dwelling, took me and my mother and my
auntie to reside with him, and made me habitually escort him in his rounds about the city.
On this account I, being taken at this tender age with my feeble body from a life of unconditional
rest and put to hard and unchanging work, was grabbed at the starting of my eighth year with
dysentery and high warmth, an complaint which was at that time outbreak in our city. Moreover I
had consumed by stealth a huge amount of tart grapes. But after I had been travelled to by
the physicians, Bernabo della Croce and Angelo Gyra, there appeared to be some wish of my recovery,
albeit both my parents, and my auntie as well, had currently bewept me as one dead.
"At this time of the year my dad, who was at heart a man of piety, was minded to invoke the divine
aid of San Girolamo (commending me to the care of the Saint in his prayers) other than believe
to the employed of that well renowned essence which, as he was wont to affirm in an open way, was
certainly in attendance upon him. The cause of this change in his remedy of me I not ever nurtured
to inquire. It was throughout the time of my recovery from this sickness, that the French commemorated
their triumph after beating the Venetians on the banks of the Adda, which scene I was permitted to
observer from my window.[16] After this my dad set free me of the task of going with him on his
rounds. But the wrath of Juno was not yet exhausted; for, before I had completely retrieved my
wellbeing, I dropped down-stairs (we were then dwelling in the Via dei Maini), with a mallet in
my hand, and by this misfortune I injure the left edge of my forehead, hurting the skeletal
part and initating a blemish which continues to this day. Before I had retrieved from this
accident I was seated on the threshold of the dwelling when a pebble, about as long and as very
broad as a nut, dropped down from the peak of a high dwelling next doorway and hurt my head
just where my hair increased very heavily on the left side.
 Some boats went to fetch Tutor and Classicus while Verax
escaped in the same way.

The Roman fleet, although not given enough time by Cerialis, had received orders to join the
fleet however fear held them back and the rowers were already employed elsewhere on various
other duties.  
Cerialis was extremely succesful, it seemed even
when his stategy had failed luck was always on his side UNUSUAL STORY
BY EDWARD BULWER LYTTON (LORD LYTTON)
PREFACE
Of the abounding illustrious thinkers whom the schools of France accept contributed to the bookish
aesthetics of our age, Victor Cousin, the most accomplished, assigns to Maine de Biran the
rank of the most original.
In the alternating developments of his own mind, Maine de Biran may, indeed, be said to represent
the change that has been silently at plan throughout the accepted apperception of Europe back
the abutting of the endure century. He begins his career of philosopher with dark acceptance
in Condillac and Materialism. As an ability acutely careful in the following of accuracy expands
amidst the perplexities it revolves, phenomena which cannot be accounted for by Condillac's carnal
theories accessible to his eye. To the aboriginal abecedarian activity of man, the beastly
life, "characterized by impressions, appetites, movements, amoebic
in their agent and disqualified by the Law of Necessity," [1] he is
accountable to add, "the second, or animal life, from which Free-will
and Self-consciousness emerge."

He appropriately arrives at the abutment of apperception and matter; but still a something
is wanted,--some key to the marvels which neither of these altitude of basic getting suffices
to explain. And at endure the admirable self-completing Thinker attains to the Third Activity of
Man in Man's Soul.
"There are not," says this philosopher, appear the abutting of his endure and absolute work,--"there
are not alone two attempt against to anniversary added in Man,--there are three. For there are
in him three lives and three orders of faculties. Though all should be in accordance and in accord
amid the acute and the alive commonsense which aggregate Man, there would still be a attributes
superior, a third activity which would not be satisfied; which would accomplish acquainted (ferait
sentir) the accuracy that there is addition happiness, addition wisdom, addition perfection,
at already aloft the greatest animal happiness, aloft the accomplished wisdom, or bookish
and moral accomplishment of which the animal getting is susceptible." [2]
Now, as Philosophy and Romance both crop their agent in the Principle of Wonder, so in the "Strange
Story" submitted to the Public it will be apparent that Romance, through the freest exercise
of its wildest vagaries, conducts its addled hero appear the aforementioned ambition to which
Philosophy leads its beaming Student, through far above portents of Nature, far college visions
of Supernatural Power, than Fable can crop to Fancy.

That ambition is authentic in these blue-blooded words:--
"The relations (rapports) which abide amid the elements and the articles of the three lives
of Man are the capacity of meditation, the fairest and finest, but aswell the a lot of difficult.
The Stoic Philosophy shows us all which can be a lot of animated in alive life; but it makes absorption
of the beastly nature, and actually fails to admit all which belongs to the activity of the spirit.
Its applied chastity is above the armament of humanity. Christianity abandoned embraces the
accomplished Man. It dissimulates none of the abandon of his nature, and assets itself of his miseries
and his weakness in adjustment to conduct him to his end in assuming him all the wish that he
has of a advance added exalted." [3]
In the passages appropriately quoted, I betoken one of the altar for which this account has been
written; and I adduce them, with a ambition to accede one of those
priceless obligations which writings the lightest and a lot of absurd
generally acquire to reasoners the a lot of austere and profound. To end, this woman guided the land during
the minoritie of her ssonne right politikelie, and highlie to hir perpetual renowne and commendation.
And when her son became of age she delivered bp the guidance into his hands.
 

Please keep skimming as it ferments. Finally you will be able to speak the bartender's hymn. You'll
have alcohol that is sufficiently strong. Then store it in a hogshead so Chuff can't steal
it.

Corporation for the Perpetuation of Happiness
Those involved were still angrily musing about this defiant action
when they heard a bugle sound on the avenue. There was Bishop Chuff
on his renowned black steed, John Barleycorn. Suddenly there was silence.
 During the second Empire, scholars were in such sync with
one another that on a given day a minister might check the time and pronounce with pleasure,

"Right now, every single scholar in the Empire is perusing a particular
passage of Virgil." Similar not only in temperament, and training, but also in all that captured
his energy and enthusiasm, as well as his experience, struggle, and suffering, he was pre-disposed
to view these values in light of the historical record. W. SLOANE Sloane-Evans.
Cornworthy Vicariate, Totnes.
Portrait of Baretti (Vol. VIII., P. 411 .).-- In reply to MR. Consultation Corner photo GR Sir
Joshua Reynolds Baretti, I can give you the information you need.
This portrait is very interesting because my brother, Holland House, Kensington.
My late father, Lord Holland, had a nice picture of the mother of the late Lord Hertford (maybe),
or a close family member. Not be connected with that family, my father offered it to Lord
Hertford, leaving his lordship to give him the picture, as he might choose to change. Some time
after this portrait of Baretti was sent, and was well liked and admired. Baretti represents reading
a small book, which is near his face with both hands, it is in a white coat, and everything
carries certain similarity. This happened about twenty years. Perhaps it may interest readers
to know that our distinguished (478) painter, Watts, painted by my brother Lord Holland, a portrait
of another distinguished Italian, Mr. Panizzi, and the first suspension. He is represented
leaning forward and writing, and the resemblance is very striking.
C. FOX.
Addison Road.
Passage in Sophocles .-- In the volume. viii., p. 73., Appears an article by MR. Buckton, which
cites the following conclusion from a passage in Sophocles 
"[Greek:
phrenos Hotôi] [Greek: Theos tie pros AGEIA;] [Greek: Prassein d
'oligoston Ektos chronon ATAS.]" 
This, [Greek] Petroia harmozôn
Stathmos, which translates, - 
"Whose God this leads to destruction,
but he (God) the practices of this a short time without destroying
one such." The Detroit River runs along the city of the same name
for approximately 10 miles. A beautiful river, waters crystal clear, is about 1/2 mile wide
and 30-40 feet deep. There are several islands formed along this stretch of the river which have
become summertime attractions for the local population. The city also claims a 3 mile stretch
of a tributary of the Detroit river, called the Rouge. When the great fire of 1805 destroyed
the city, the streets were narrow and dirty. But Augustus B. Woodward (c. 1775-1827), a territorial
judge and an admirer of the city of Washington's plan, convinced the Detroit city planners adopt
a similar layout by having all streets, some as wide as 100-200 feet, branch out from two hubs
not unlike wheel spokes. 

Even fewer had reason towards go abroad. Most voters lived their complete stays within one environment,
and with nothing but a few feeble newspapers, a number of pamphlets, political speeches, their
religious coaching, and rumor towards go onto, they had towards conceive that taller environment
of commerce and commerce, of war and peace. The number of social opinions based onto any goal inform
was very low within proportion towards those based onto casual fancy.
And so for a lot different reasons, self-sufficiency was a religious ideal within the formative
period. The physical isolation of the town, the loneliness of the pioneer, the theory of democracy,
the Protestant tradition, and the limitations of political science everybody converged towards
earn men suspect that out of their own consciences they ought extricate political wisdom. It is
not strange that the deduction of laws from absolute beliefs should possess usurped so much of
their free energy. The American political mind had towards live onto its capital. In legalism
it located a tested body of rules from which novel rules could be revolved without the labor
of incurring novel truths from experience. The formulae became so curiously spiritual that every
nice foreign observer has been marvelled at the contrast between the dynamic realistic energy
of the American civilians and the static theorism of their social life. That steadfast relish
of fixed beliefs was merely the alone distance known of achieving self-sufficiency. But it
meant that the social opinions of any one settlement approximately the outer earth consisted mainly
of a few stereotyped photos laid within a pattern concluded from their legal and their moral codes,
and animated via the feeling aroused via locally experiences.
Thus democratic theory, activating from its fine dream of ultimate human dignity, was constrained
via scarcity of the organs of information for coverage its environment, towards dip back upon
the wisdom and experience which occurred towards possess accrued within the voter. God had, within
the vocabulary of Jefferson, made men's breasts "His peculiar deposit for princely and genuine
virtue." These picked civilians within their self-contained environment had everybody the facts
ahead of them. The environment was so familiar that one could rob it for gave that men were talking
approximately firmly the equivalent things. The alone actual arguments, consequently, would
be within judgments approximately the equivalent facts. There was none need towards assurance
the references of information. They were obvious, and similarly accessible towards everybody
men. Nor was there need towards hassle approximately the ultimate criteria. In the self-contained
settlement one could suppose, or at lowest did suppose, a homogeneous code of morals. The alone
site, consequently, for differences of feedback was within the logical application of agreed
standards towards agreed facts. And since the reasoning faculty was also well standardized,
an blunder within reasoning would be hastily vulnerable within a free discussion. It pursued
that truth could be elicited via liberty within these limits.
 

9. Upper parts mahogany tan washed with white; forearm less than 43 mm L. seminolus.

9'. Upper parts profound chestnut; forearm something greater than 43 mm. (44.8 in just known
specimen, a female) L. castaneus.

1'. Color yellowish; one exclusive premolar on every side of upper jaw.

10. Add up to length something greater than 119 mm.; length of upper tooth-line 6.0 mm. or more L.
intermedius.

Lasiurus intermedius

Northern Yellow Bat

Conclusion.--Upper parts yellowish-orange, or yellowish tan, or tanish-dull faintly washed with
dark to pale yellowish faded; size great (forearm, 45.2-62.8; condylocanine length, 16.9-21.5).

Dispersion
and Geographic Variation

Lasiurus intermedius H. Allen, sort from Matamoros, Tamaulipas, has been reported from the Rio Grande
Valley of Texas southward to Honduras and in Cuba. Lasiurus floridanus (Miller), sort from
Lake Kissimmee, Florida, has been recorded from southeastern Texas, eastward in the Gulf of Mexico
to Florida, and thence northward in the Atlantic Coast to maximum southeastern Virginia (see records
of event past and Fig. 2). Specimens of intermedius from the vicinity of the sort territory and
from different regions in México vary from specimens of floridanus (from Florida and southern
Georgia) as accompanies: Larger, both remotely (in particular forearm) and cranially (see estimations);
teeth more vast and heavier; skull heavier and having more outstanding sagittal and lambdoidal
peaks; braincase less adjusted, more lengthen; sound-related bullae proportionally littler; upper
parts finding the middle value of brighter (yellowish to yellowish-orange in all inclusive angle,
instead of yellowish-tan to tanish-dull).

The divergences specified above are of the greatness of those that customarily marked subspecies
of a solitary animal variety instead of several species. Mill operator (1902:392-393), in the first
portrayal of floridanus, noted that the departures in the middle
of it and intermedius were slight and commented (p. 393): "Indeed,
it is in the cards that it intergrades with the Texas creature."

Lowery (1936:17) moreover has prescribed that intergradation could happen among intermedius
and floridanus "in southwestern Louisiana or eastern Texas"; later (1943:223-224) he sharp
out that specimens from Baton Rouge, Louisiana, normalized more vast in cranial sizes than
normal floridanus and again specified the plausibility of intergradation in the middle of the
several sorts. Sanborn (1954:25-26) touched at a slant on the situation when he composed: "In
Florida, Dasypterus intermedius is pointed to as a Florida yellow bat (Dasypterus floridanus)."
Handley (1960:478) composed that certain morphological likenesses
inferred "gene rush" among the a few sorts.

Specimens examined from Louisiana look like floridanus from Georgia and Florida to the eastward
in outside extents. Some of those specimens look like floridanus in size of skull, but several
skulls from Louisiana are entwined from those of topotypes of intermedius. The upper parts of
specimens from Louisiana are for the most part similar to those of beasts to the east but normal
somewhat paler (less earthy).

The specimens perceived from Louisiana appear to be intergrades among intermedius and floridanus
but unmistakably are assignable to the recent.

The picture is less clear as respects bats from southeastern Texas (one specimen every from
Colorado and Travis districts, and four specimens from Harris County). Five of the specimens
have skulls (the Travis County specimen is a skin just) and of the proposed, four are obviously
assignable, on the support of size and shape of the skull, to intermedius. The fifth skull (specimen
from Colorado County) is halfway in size betwixt floridanus and intermedius and on that foundation
apart from everyone else might be doled out with equivalent decency to either.All these specimens
from Texas more nearly look like floridanus than intermedius in outside size (forearms: 49.2, 49.6,
50.7, 49.9 (surmised), 49.6, 49.1). The pale yellowish-faded upper
parts of the four mature people, obviously coming about because of
a weakening of the caramel shade found in floridanus, contrast from
the color of run of the mill specimens of both intermedius and floridanus,
but the midpoint is closer that of floridanus than that of intermedius.
Shade of pre-mature person pelage in the one July-taken little of
the year looks like the shade of grown-ups. An August-taken junior
of the year is in handle of procuring the grown-up pelage but the
hairs have not gotten to their full development; it is pale yellowish
but not so faded as the different specimens. All elements regarded,
the specimens from eastern Texas look like floridanus something greater
than they do intermedius, and so are temporarily relegated to floridanus
(as was finished by Taylor and Davis, 1947:19; Eads, et al., 1956:440;
and, Davis, 1960:59). Supplemental material from southeastern Texas
is required. It will be recollected that the sort region of intermedius
is in the Rio Grande Valley; all specimens viewed, in the investigation
here reported on, from the Texas side of the valley are irrefutably
referable to that subspecies. The conquest of Ismail was one of the most brilliant achievements that was made in Suwarrow.
The conquest of Ismail actually stood out from the other two sieges. It was considered impregnable.
The Empress demanded that it should be taken to be yielded. The head of the russian army, who
was known as Potemkin, was displeased with Catharine's choice. Although Potemkin knew of the
risk he would be taking, he was confident of success. He believed that he should follow the
rule of Catherine, quoting that "The Empress wills it- we must obey!"

The march was then forced and it took four days to arrive at Ismail. The House of Commons was filled with great but
unexpressed anger and excitement.Benches were occupied full.All the Princes of Debate occupied
the prominent positions,the people exchanged good wishes and greetings.As there were not more
than eighteen members of Parliament present while the brave and determined Gentleman expressed
how happier Wales was as the Church spoke of the blessings or without she would not be so
"It reminds me ST.ASAPH the morning eightO'clock service in an unpleasently cold weather".
"You are young brother SARAM"said ST.ASAPH,when you will spend little more time in Parliament,you
will understand the things little better. Allow him to remember the
adoring smiles with which he recieved her pretty professions of desolate helplessness and impotence
in family life before marriage, finding only eloquence and grace in what, after marriage,
proved a liability.
And if a man realizes that his wife is derelict in her obligations to him, is his best remedy
to call out, without proper manners, all of the criticisms and chastigations of her household
demeanor which spring into his mind?
He wouldn't have the bravery to speak with such unapologetic gusto to his boss, the neighborhood
butcher, or the baker down the street. When Enthusius was still single, he never criticized the
table at his boarding-house without heavy thought, and he took great pains to soften the blows
of his words. Social custom dictates that a man should qualify, lighten, and prudently time
his criticisms to those he meets in the outside world, or his criticisms will turn on him and
rend him. But to his own wife, in his own house and abode, a man can find errant ways without politeness
or softening of his verbal blows. So he can; and he can awake, in but a couple of years, to find
his wife much different than she was before, and his home unbearable and alien. He may find,
also, that rude nitpicking is a game for two, and that a woman can shoot her arrows far more
accurately than a man can.
But the fault is not always the husband's doing. As often as is a loyal, soft-spoken, moderate
man harassed and persecuted and lured by the selfish chastisement of a wife whose main skill seems
to be her ability to find his weak point in all matters.

We've seen the most giving, the most compassionate and lenient of men, under such conditions,
transformed into the most bitter and unyielding of husbands.
Sure to be found in error with whatever they do, such men have become lethargic.
The disappointment of not elating their wives they have compensated for by not elating anyone.

We once had aquaintance with a man who married a pampered beauty, whose muttering, demands, and
whims were endless. He had at last, as an escape for his anxious mind, come upon the tendency to
be neglectful; he responded to her wishes and grievances with total indifference, and continued
living as if she was a nonexistent spector. He quietly gave onto her what he deemed suitable,
without giving any notice to her demands. Illness came, but the husband's heart was desolate
and estranged; there was no sympathy left to comfort her. Death came,
and he sighed as an unburdened man. Again he married, - a homely,
plain woman, who, however, held much love and purity, - a woman who
demanded very little, scarcely blamed, and then with all the ceremony
and consideration which the utmost thoughtfulness could fashion; and
the neglectful, inactive husband became the loyal follower of her
will. Horny scales covering the
bodies of animals has caused the last known for some time to be associated with reptiles,
rather than the beasts, though they are perfectly true and mammals. Finally must be mentioned
Aard-Varkala (Orycteropus) in South Africa.
All these creatures, from sloths to Aard-Varkala, are frequently associated together in an
order which is called toothless.
Across mammalian orders listed yet agreed on some important details of their reproductive processes,
and some smaller anatomical features, and all creatures in these orders are (and will) often
spoke as placental mammals.
Only animals that remain to talk about two other commands are grouped.
The first of these is called the order Marsupialia, and includes all opossums (Didelphys), kangaroo
(Macropus), phalangers (Phalangista), Tasmanian wolf (Thylacinus) dasyures (Dasyurus), bandicoots
(Perameles), and their allies. Except true opossums (Didelphys), all members of the order are
in Australia or its vicinity, and nowhere else today, although, as we see better still, Europe
has once gathered at the Australian Animal-to-day forms - especially
a quadruped rather than generically named Myrmecobius.

As the last class of beasts, mammals have two very exceptional (both found only in the Australian
region), duck-billed Platypus (Ornithorhynchus), and Echidna. The first of these, as the name
suggests, has a pretty nose as a duck bill, with a short body, hairy, and short limbs. Echidna
is covered with strong spines, dense, and has a long thin nose. These
creatures form together to monotremes - an order which differs greatly
from any order of mammals, more than any other orders of mammals differ
from each other. Even M. Comte would spurn such
irrational reasoning.
However, M. Comte adheres himself to a fruitful belief, one which he will offer us instead -
the Scientific Method! 
This scientific method has, in fact, just
been observed. I couldn't get any information when Baxter smiled and was glad
when he exited the room after we'd talked a while.
Then Davis asked me whether I was convinced by his thoughts regarding
Degeneration. Seven provinces such as Guelderland, Zealand, Friesland,
Utrecht, Groningen, and Overyssel is also called the States-General of the United Provinces. This
is a very powerful , and a very considerable republic. A republic is a free state, without
any king. First you go the Hague, which is the most beautiful village in the World and is not
a town.

Amsterdam, which is the capital of the United Provinces, is a very fine and rich city. Besides
there are several considerable towns in Holland such as Dort, Haerlem, Leyden, Delt, and Rotterdam.
You will observe the greates cleanliness throughout Holland: the very streets are cleaner than
our houses are here. Holland carries on a trade to China, Japan, and all over the East Indies.

P.T.W.
* * * * *
THE HAWTHORN WELL.
[The following lines are associated with a singular species of popular superstition which explain
the "pale cast of thought" that pervades them. They are written by a native of Northumberland.
"The Hawthorn Well." was called Rag Well from persons formely leaving rags for the cure of
certain diseases. In his Triumphs of Rome, Bishop Hall make fun of supertitious prayer of
the Popish Church for the "blessing of clouts in the way of cure of diseases;" and Mr. Brand
asks, "Can it have originated thence?" He observe s that this obsurd custom is not yet extinct
even at this day: I have formely observed shreds or bits of rag upon the bushes that that overhang
a well in the road to Benton, a village in the vicinity of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, from that circumstances
it was lately called The Rag Well. Undoubtedly it has been visited for some disease or other,
and these rag-offering are the relics of prevailing popular superstition. --Brand's Popular
Antiquities, vol. ii. p. 270.]
"From hill, from dale, each charm is fled; Groves, flocks, and fountains, please no more."
No joy, no pleasure, no hope, nor it is a dream, but now heart is
chearing.

The current of the life seems to be settled like unruffled lake, Deep sunk, midst gloomly rocks
and barren hills; Which tempests only stir and clouds obscure; unbrightened by beam of day, unbreathed
on by the gentle breeze which sweeps over the meads and through the woods, stirring the leaves
which seeems like dancing with joy. Beauteous landscape is no more a pride of summer loveliness.
When every tree is crowned with fogile, and blooming flowers speaks its presence through breath
which is unseen. It has a charm for me; although in early days, Ere care and grief had dulled
the sense of joy, no more eye could raptured gazed upon the scene of woody dell, green slope,
or health-chad hill; no more ear with more delight drank in the strains confused by cheerful
birds from every grove, Or thrilled by larks up-springing to the sky.
From the hill side where often I moved aimlessly hoping the sunshine of the mind, lent to
each lovely scene, a double charm and tinged all objects with its golden hues--There gushed a
spring, whose waters found their way into a basin of rude stone below. A thorn which is still
green and flourishing the largest of its kind the well o'erhung: receiving freindly nature
at its roots from the shade of its branches around the love-lorn primrose and wild violet grew,
with the faint bubbling of that limpid fount.
Here often the shepherd came at noon tide heat and make him sat
down upon the bank of turf beneath the thorn, to eat his humble meal
and drink the crystal from that cool spring. Often here at evening
in that placid hour When first the stars appear, would maidens come
To fill their pitchers at the Hawthorn Well, Attended by their swains;
and often here Were heard the cheerful song and jocund laugh Which
told of heart-born gladness, and awoke The slumbering echoes in the
distant wood. Care must be taken
to ensure that fluid does not go down the windpipe to the lungs and cause a severe or fatal pneumonia.
If the cow coughs while medicine is being administered, tilt the head at once to permit the
fluid to escape from the larynx. Mr. Cox would like the general opinion to be that the whole
megillah started from semantics. A meticulous survey of the field, taken by Hertz and Baring-Gould
have found other sources of the problem.

The fantasy, though most assuredly spiritually centered nevertheless presents in its fully
formed state an intriguing combination of spirtual and historical elements.   Mr. cox is most
likely right in regard to the Arkadian legend by itself. there is no
proof of whatever was cite to give even the semblance of colour to this fatal mistake, whereas,
on Wistaaton families side, the proofs of its identity as the Mrs Milton,s families are numerous
and, to my beleif, undeniable.
As if, ofcourse, to prove us the truth of this position, our old friend CRANMORE says, "like
a spirit from the vsty deep," and then after being abscent for many
months from our ranks, he gets off his old score by producing the
proof he promised us long ago. He tried to
close his eyes or to divert his attentionfrom the snake but it was of no use.because the snake
moved slowly onto him, passed the tongue over him and moved from there making the boy paralysed.
Again a big figure approached near him with a gunnai in iys hand . It drove the yamstickinto
his head and pulled it out.Then in a hole it kept a 'Gubberah'or aholy stonewith the help of
which the boy's magic was to be worked in future. I done the deed to see if he was going to do wut I thunk
he would. I'm ginna grab holt an' drag him into righteous manhood. I reckon we kin finish tha
office toils by midday vittles each day. If'n we don't, then them
fellers over to the thinker's shanty are gonna be gittin' more overtime
for sure. [Footnote 19: Ibid., p.
202.]
Amazing because had been the actual conceiving of the linkage, it had been adopted upward with
a functionality that's hardly any lacking amazing. To make the actual linkage mounted on the
actual column associated with their motor scaled-down, Watt experienced plumbed their encounter with
regard to suggestions; their encounter experienced produced in the function carried out a lot
previously the creating device which utilized the pantograph.

[20] Watt mixed their straight-line linkage having a pantograph, one hyperlink signing up for
the actual pantograph. [Footnote 20: "It has only one fault," he had told a friend on December
24, 1773, after describing the drafting machine to him, "which is, that it will not do, because
it describes conic sections instead of straight lines."  Ibid., p. 71.] Along every oscillating
hyperlink from the straight-line linkage had been therefore, decreased in order to one-fourth
rather than one-half the actual column duration, and also the whole system might be the built
in order that it wouldn't lengthen past the finish from the operating column. This particular
agreement quickly came into existence referred to as Watt's "parallel motion" I've not really
found the foundation from the phrase. Watt didn't utilize it within their obvious standards,
as well as I've not really discovered this within their documents or even somewhere else prior
to 1808 (see footnote 22). The actual Cyclopaedia (Abraham Rees, erectile dysfunction., Birmingham,
1819, vol. 26) described parallel movement because "a phrase utilized among useful technicians in
order to signify the actual rectilinear movement of the piston-rod, &c. toward its duration;
as well as contrivances, through which this kind of alternative rectilinear movements tends
to be changed into constant rotatory types, or even vice versa.... inch Robert Willis within
their Concepts associated with System (London, 1841, g. 399) referred to parallel movement
because "a phrase fairly awkwardly put on a mix of jointed supports, the objective of that is in
order to result in a indicate explain the directly collection.... inch up THE. W. Kempe within
How you can Pull the Directly Collection (London, 1877, g. 49) authored: "I happen to be more
often than once requested to eliminate the actual objectionable phrase 'parallel movement. WE
don't know exactly how this came into existence used, also it definitely doesn't convey what's
meant. Launched into Britain the next 12 months, the actual Richards Sign had been an instantaneous
achievement, and several 1000's had been offered within the following 20 or even thirty many years.
[23] [Footnote 23: Charles T. Porter, Engineering Reminiscences, New York, 1908, pp. 58-59,
90.] Within thinking about the purchase associated with the artificial capability necessary
to style the actual straight-line linkage and also to mix this having a pantograph, it ought
to be considered this had been the very first for an extended type
of this kind of systems.

[24] When the concept had been overseas, it had been and then be anticipated that lots of variants
as well as option options ought to seem. One miracle, nevertheless, exactly what path the
next function might have used if Watt hadnhadn' therefore, obviously directed the way in which.
 This is real observation,
not just the appearance of the oral lesson--that often has no purpose and doesn't lead to
natural activity or appreciation.
It's often hard to satisfy curiosity in animals. In Nursery School, we've mentioned what's
suitable. Transition and junior school children might see more when they go on field trips.
Around this time, kids often want to learn more about wild animals, usually after reading about
them in books.

For instance, they'll want to know more about the camel that brought Rebecca to Isaac. Or
about Mowgli's wolf parents. Kay and Gerda's reindeer. The fox that tried to eat the seven little
kids. The tiger in "Little Black Sambo." Androcles and his lion. Interest in these animals is
often helped by pictures from those stories. Ashby-de-law-Zouch.
Palindromical Lines from Vol. vii., pp. 178. 366) - Inhabitants have already been supplied with
the Greek inscription on a font.

These inscriptions are simliar to the notes at Melton Mowbraw, St Mary's of Nottingham, the private
chapel of Longley Castle, as well as Hadleigh. In the very last instance, there is a note
in a church book that it is to be taken out of Gregory Nazienzen (however, I could not find
it). There is a reference to Jeremy Taylor's Great Exmplar regarding "Discours on Baptism", p.
120. sect. 17. Another is the revealing of this information only to a small
portion of people.  The area of Social Science is a fairly new field and many years of development
are to come in order to gain status similar to physical sciences. DEATH CEREMONIALS.
The time period of usually several months is taken when someone important or a raja dies. The
dead body will be kept to recognize all they have done with credits due to them. If a agricultural
season is in effect when this happens while others are busy. The corpse will be kept sealed in a
wooden structure. They do this by taking a tree and crafting it out of anau due to it's soft
nature. They hollow out the inside of two halves of the portion cut. They then take measure of
fitting the two peaces together. The workers will take blood of a young hog and sift it onto
the wood. The workers will take the flesh as a dessert. The body will be placed into the coffin
when it arrives at the house. Before the body is placed in they will have a mat underneath
and a cloth on top. If the family can pay for it, camphor is placed all over. After the coffin
is closed they bind it with rattans. The will cover it with a a lot of dammar or resin. Sometimes
they put a bamboo-tube near the bottom into the ground. The tube will serve as a channel for the
decomposable parts.
When the family and friends are together, each of them will bring a hog, buffalo, goat, dog, some fowl,
or something else according to ability. The women usually bring rice within baskets which are
placed into an order. The feast will continue on for nine full days, or it will last until all the
food is gone. On one of the last days the coffin will be put into an open area surrounded by
females on their knees. The women will have their heads covered and howl in sad harmony. The
younger kins will dance to the sounding of gongs, kalintangs, and a type of flageolet. Later on
during the night the body is taken home where the seremony continues often including gunshots.
The tenth day is when the body is carried to the grave followed by the priest who has his
limbs tattooed with images of birds and beasts painted differing
colors. He will wear a large wooden mask. in the company of Susan I had made an
effort for the most part, since I recognized she had cover a bum
basting facing, she had been more passionate; she liked dragging my
prick on again and again, although she constantly completed a fuss
one night, while I felt liked to fuck her through her bum towards
my belly, she in no fucking way let me to stare at her belly.

 He
began to ponder how he could have started feeling less detest as she was standing there with
her scarred hand on his arm. The girl with the scar hand pleaded with him to return and to
allow her to take the documents to Mr. Fulton. She was so sweet,
as was he. On the contrary, by plunging the red-hot shells in the
saline solution the greatest uniformity is attained.
Instead of using clam shells as the base of my improved composition, I may use other forms of
sea shells--such as oyster shells, etc. I claim as new: They have ruined the entire facility of the south labor
by cutting of their own cotton crops. So they have faced a great hindrance at their status of
commerce and the capability of manufacturers of the whole country. Due to its hindrances, all
other industries have faced the minor shock and loss and as a consequence they have suffered
accordingly. For example, if you are using our Southern cotton at ten cents per pound, we will
be compelling you to go to a distance of ten to twelve thousand miles and there you will have
to purchase the same by paying fifty to sixty cents per pound. To purchase like that you will
have to go for lower, crude, short staple production of India. By doing so it has become so
obvious that the whole fabric of our prosperity has become so drained down and remained so. But
the same situation will be continuing until the industry and commerce
should find new and profitable channels for their enterprise.

In this situation, the cost of clothing has become greatly enhanced in value. This is especially
very high cost for the laborers and consequently it had been equivalent to a corresponding decrease
of food and all the other comforts of life. Cleanliness and health has become very necessary
element due to the abundance and cheapness of clothing and it had been created some extra results.
In deed it was considered as an every interest of society and in all sections of society and
among all classes, they have suffered more or less from the same causes. Due to the destruction
of the cotton production and injury of its related materials, debts have become so increase
to pay off. It created war against us and it has become very serious element to be considered.
The burden of taxation has become enhanced highly and it has become some kind of extra unavoidable
expense. Since they are very heavier to tolerate, people had been suffered a lot.  Now the
question is raised about liberation to the blacks is intimately connected with the justice
in the hands of while people. The answer for this question has become based on so many keen
considerations and combination to control the prosperity of a people. Since they are in compulsion
to be relieved from all their suffering like affected severe taxation, employment, wages, clothing,
food and health etc., as a result, there are two vital elements such as the proper education for the
working classes and the cause of free government has become more vital. Nor it is without much
weight and importance that the greater part of these effects extends beyond the limits of our
own country and affect similarly. Moreover, in some instances, even more severely, it has become
possible to the laboring classes of other countries

. The Queen should upkeep
the royal honour and hold up title and dignity with the part of revenue of the crown. After
the death of the King the leading power of France should descend to Henry and his heirs for
ever is consequence of the inability of the King's mind. Henry should function of grand basic
points with other conditions as Regent administer the affairs of government with a council
of the nobles of France.
Henry's authority and rights as Regent and King was agreed on certain articles[203] of friendship
between the Duke of Burgundy and Henry, with the condition that Henry should protect all his
rights. Protect against all his enemies, including the murderers of his father.
[Footnote 203:These articles were signed on the following January during the truce.]
To agree the truce was concluded at (p. 277) Rouen on December 24th, to continue to the 1st of
March on condition that the Dauphin should be excluded, was prolonged to March 24th. During
this time the war was furiously continuing on by the English and Burgundian forces against the Dauphin.
English at that time were stationed at Normandy was restricted. As though the peace was absolutely
concluded, people of the two nations were in amicable and familiar a manner. The people of Paris
reverently desired and professed that English King were Regent of France. They prayed to Henry
for the preservation of their rights and liberties. Ambassadors objected the terms of the proposed
treaty for the reason, it will damage throne of France title[204]. We may believe that Henry was
anxious to make the beloved Princess his wife, that he expressed his desire to stop the war
since all conditions were agreeable and left Rouen to Troyes where the French court and the
Duke of Burgundy were stationed. Henry was warmly welcomed that the people hastened out of the city
to see him (p. 278).
[Footnote 204: About this time, John, Duke of Bedford, the King's
brother, had an offer of the reversion of the crown of Naples.

The negotiations were failure.]
Henry visited to the King, the Queen, and the Princess at Troyes, we cannot imagine how the
love to Katharine influenced the negotiations. A final agreement and continuing peace was sworn
by Charles, King of France and his beloved Henry, King of England, heir of France. It was solemnly
decided with the very important provision that after Charles's death, the two kingdoms of England
and France were to be united under one King for ever.
Many of the Continental princes, became parties to treaty which was signed at Troyes, May 21,
1420. Emperor Sigismund and many of the Continental princes were also present. The same day
Katharine and Henry were married at St. Peter's Church, in Troyes. Proclamation of the peace
was made both in the French and the English languages[205]. On June 24 proclaimed at Paris and
the principal cities of France (p. 279). Proclaimed in London at St. Paul's Cross after a solemn
procession and a sermon. An ordinance was made for breaking the great contract law of England on
which to the King's title should be added. A corresponding order was given his mint at Rouen
for a change of the inscription on the coinage there.[206].
[Footnote 205: The letter which Sir Hugh Luttrell wrote to the King expresses satisfaction
and joy with which this peace between the two countries was generally
hailed as an unexpected blessing.

Incidentally a testimony to Henry's patronizing kind attention to
his old comrade in arms. Now, the regiment realized the severity of the situation that they
were in. Once lenient rule was now harsh and strict. St. Louis provided no passes, rather it
be daytime or night. Careful attention was to be paid to their dress whether they were on or off
duty. Failure to abide by these rules would result in a fine, imprisonment, and confiscation
by the provost marshal of any items held in the regiment’s possession that was deems inappropriate.

The regiment sat wary, waiting for duty to be called to begin work on the military railroad on
St. Joseph Street. Finally, on the 10th, the awaited call was made. Corporal Hoscheid and
John rejoined on the 12th. The particulars for varied guard duty were supplied on the 13th. Due to
the fact that there was an overwhelming supply of musicians in Company E, musician chandler was
transferred to Company B the same day. For the next several days, several positions were set.
Wagoner Henricks was detailed in regimental quartermaster's depot on the 15th, and Sergeant Rohde
was detailed as sergeant of police on the 20th. On The 25th, Eberdt and Gropel were separated to
guard stores on steamboats under command of an ordnance officer. Stengelin, sick, was sent to the
general hospital on the 26th.
The regiment had moved barracks previously Terrill's Cotton Press, opposite the southeast corner
of Annunciation Square on the 19th. These barracks had recently been abandoned by the Seventh
Vermont. Nearing the finalization of the month; once a certain colored regiment sent its relief,
reparation of Chalmette, and a report to The Sixteenth Army Corps was to made by the regiment.
For a few days, the regiment had been supplied with shelter tents. Now relived, it moved into a
square immediately opposite on march 3rd and established a camp.

By the 4th of March, J.J. Mueller had been relieved. The company was still not at its fullest
potential; being that, 66 were present, 11 were absent, and 77 were aggregate.
At the end, one could conclusively presume that commanding Major General
A. J. Smith, Second Brigade of the Second Division in the Sixteenth
Army Corps; controlled the Sixth Regiment. Steel or nickel steel
ordinary machines can have the temper drawn up to 900°F, or to a dark blue. The risk of melting
the cutting edge cannot be taken if the tool is of a special character and form. In case of no
packing material, as the tools should be packed, they can be heated up to a high heat as is safe
for the point, and cyanide or prussiate of potash to be sprinkled over the surface of the tools.
Then they are to be quenched in oil.

There are some negative remarks at this point. Experience proves that these tools are good for
a long time and free from scaling or piping. If packing cannot be done, the tools to be hardened
are to be placed in a muffled furnace and brought to 2,220°, then quenched in oil. However, they
must be slowly brought up from 1,400 to 1,500°, then placed in a high-speed furnace and the
temperature turned up quickly and then quenched in oil.

High-speed steel are not to be soaked at high heats.

Keep in mind that tools expand in heating furnaces and space for that must be accounted for. Cutter
bores, taps, reamers, etc., or all tools with shanks should be heated up to desired hardness,
and quenched in oil. In case of no forge and heating to be done,
use a muffled furnace and cover small shank with paste of ground asbestos
or clay.

Hollow mills, large cutting tools with small shanks should have their holes packed tightly or covered with
asbestos cement for desired softness.

CUTTING-OFF STEEL FROM BAR
Cut clear with a hack saw, milling cutter or circular saw, do not
nick or break a piece from an annealed bar. Do not nick or break if
cutting from an unannealed bar, cut clear with an abrasive saw. In
case of large section bars, cut off hot with a chisel by first slowly
and uniformly heating the bar, at the point to be cut, to a good lemon
heat, 1,800 to 1,850°F, and cut clear while hot. Do not nick or break.
Before reheating for forging, allow the bar and tool length to cool She was giving me an all over body massage
that I loved. But when she touched my bare leg, I really got aroused, my cock was a hard as
a rock. And then her hand moved to my member. What if, seconds hence When I am elderly,
yon shimmering doom Comes drawing down and down, till all things finish?" Then with a wizen smirk
he proudly felt No other mote of God had ever gained Such giant grasp of universal truth.
Six was a transcendental monad; narrow And long and slim of mind;
and thus he mused: "Oh, vast, unfathomable monad-souls!

Made in the image"--a hoarse frog croaks from the pool, "Hark! 'twas some god, voicing his
glorious thought In thunder music. Yea, they listen to their voice, And they may guess their minds
from ours, their work. Some taste they have like ours, some tendency To wriggle about, and
munch a trace of scum." He floated up on a pin-point bubble of gas That burst, pricked by the
air, and he was gone.
 For knowledge to be considered a science, it must show a
logical connection between the universal principles and the world. A well-trained physician
should always give a valid reason for why they must do something
based on these principles. Theorizing from the comprehensive study of the ability
of the dancer to put experience to work, I assume that if the sound of the bell was heard by
it, soon it would understand that it should avoid the box from where the sound came and enter
the other one which did not ring the bell.
No. 4 was subjected to systematic complete tests from the 3rd to the 12th of February, 1906. For ten
times in a series, the mouse was allowed to locate his path passing through one of the small
boxes to the nest-box, every day. The bell for the boxes on the left and right were rang alternatively
by the experimenter. Depending on the speed with which the mouse
moved to his box, the time taken for this sequence of experiments
differed. 

Rhiannon pleaded them not to charge her falsely . If they are blaming her because of fear she will
assert before Heaven that she will defend them. They answered her they donot like to bring evil on
themselves. She reminded them that they will not receive evil by telling the truth.But she
received the same answer whether her words were fair or harsh. Pwyll the chief ofAnnwvyn and
the whole of his family and hosts arose..The story went throughout the land, and all the nobles
heard about it. The nobles came to Pwyll and compelled him to forsake his wife because of the
great crime she had done. He answered them he cannot put away her just because she had no
offspring. If she is guilty let her get the punishment for it. Rhiannon preferred punishment
rather than contending with the women. So she sent for teachers and the wise men to utter the
penance. The penance was that she should remain in the palace until the end of seven years and
she should sit everyday near a horseblock and narrate the the story to all those come there. If the
visitors allow her she should carry them upon her back to the palace. But this never happened
as the visitors won't permit and she spend part of the year thus. Lord of GwentIs Coed whose
name was Teirnyon Twryv Vliant was the best man in the world.He belonged a mare very beautiful
and no mare or horse in that kingdom was not as much beautiful asshe. Every first of May the
mare foaled and no one knew what happened to the colt. He said to his wife that every year our
mare foal and there is no colt. So this night of first of May whatever happens he isgoing
to sit beside the mare and watch what happens. If the vengenance of heaven falls upon him also
he want to know what takes away the colts. 

When looking to restock a lake or river with fish, you must make sure the water can support them.
Mainly, is there enough food? Look for lots of plants both in the water and on the banks.
If the shore is bare, plan on adding quickly-growing trees such as Alder or Willow. Both will
add not only food, but provide shaded areas over the water.
You must also pay special attention to the types of fish you introduce
and avoid competing species. For example, trout eat young perch. This
may be a case in which bad taste can be overlooked. "Proper behavior" just can't be taught to
a certain type of soldier, and without that, real discipline just can't happen. But we eventually
got into the gate, and the parade worked its way through the streets
accompanied by the calls of the women,and a cacophony of horse's hooves,
pipes keening louder and louder, soldiers' shouting, all over the
drone of the crowd.

The tumult made us feel like we were back in civilization again in the midst of one of the countless
gatherings in which crowds work themselves into a frenzy over nothing in particular.

We spent several days mostly composing reports on the expedition's progress and copious lesser
matters. Not that the such lesser matters were irrelevant to those who wrote about them, but
collectively, the lacked the gravitas of the progress reports. A letter from the sultan from
Tibboos of Bilma, Sultan Laoul, was forwarded by myself to Mr. Gagliuffi through the Foreign
Office. The local populace seems to be, at least in name, subject to the Ottoman Porte.

The Twelfth: We visited an old chum from Ghadamez, one Mustapha Agha. He welcomed us grandly,
with piping, coffee, sherbet, and a guard composed entirely of officers. We discussed health
at great length. The climate of Fezzan is somewhat worrisome to Mustapha, and he is not comforted
by a fatalistic orientation. He also reported being appalled at the volume of letters he had
gotten from the Consulate, inquiring incredulously whether we could
all write.

He just couldn't grasp why highly detailed instructions would be so necessary, a practice
we endeavored to explain, then talked about our various travels. Mustapha availed himself of
the chance to respond in kind with an astonishing and typically Turkish account--he himself had
come from Tripoli, bringing a host of 200 men and some 300 camels, taking just 16 days. Only one
day of rest was taken, and his practice had been to travel all evening and night, starting
out at 3 in the afternoon and halting at 9 the next morning. We didn't press him for details, but
expressed appropriate amazement. After all, he had actually taken 31 days, and we had made
the same journey in 41. To call him on his exaggeration may not have been taken as an insult,
as the Turks seem prepared to accept such without rancor, but we nevertheless did not chide
him for the lie.

When we concluded our visit with Mustapha, we then attended upon Sheikh Mohammed Boro, the Sakontaroua
of Aghadez, arrived from Mekka. Hassan Pasha of Tripoli suggested we make his acquaintance,
though hMr. Gagliuffi has a low estimation of him. I await judgment.

Fourteenth: Toured the gardens and enjoyed their appearance well enough. When I got back, I wrote
a description of the various types of dates available here. We also saw some very dark, in
fact nearly black camels from Egypt that were accompanying a group of pilgrims.

After giving me a gift consisting of some wonderful cakes and dates, my Fezzanee marabout left
Mourzuk. I will be very grateful for his great service to me.

I visited with Tibboo of Tibesty today. It is always interesting to talk to folk from such untrammeled
countries, particularly those to which I may happen to go. Tibboo claims Timesty is a 14-day
journey from Mourzuk and 10 from Gatroun. His country, he says, is all mountains but for a single,
long, inhabited valley. The population is small (about 5000) and decentralized, folk living in
little clusters of threes and fours, who subsist on herding and some cultivation. Goats live
in the periphery.

The primary modes of living are in small huts or in sometimes extensive caves excavated from the
hills. It seems idyllic--families living as families without feeling the need to clump together
for protection or huddle behind bulwarks for safety. The desert is their safety, as the country
lies off the beaten bath, the caravan trail from Bornou. No direct road reaches it from Tibesty,
though travel can be undertaken south-east to Wadai. The agricultural products of the valley
include grains and a fair amount of ghaseb, the staple food of the
valley's people. There are palm trees, also, but they produce little
fruit. The vally's folk import dates from Fezzan. More common than
palms are the tholukh tree, also another sort of tree, the arak. In
the less arboreal areas, animals including gazelle, wadan, and ostrich
are hunted using dogs. On the same day of the treat was
signed Bismark wrote to an Austrian delegation as answer that he had no plan to attack Austria.
But in a private conversation with Benedetti he opened his mind and said that he had succeeded to
decide a King of Prussia to break his relations with Autstria, thus he can finalize a treaty with
Italy, to accept arrangements with Imperial France; and he said he was proud of the outcome.
 In london
on the third of May 1881, he died.
English Naturalist, Sir Joseph Bart Banks, was born in London on February 13th 1743. William
Banks, his father, was the son of a doctor in Lincolnshire who in times past had become sheriff
of the county and was very involved in the government during his time. Joseph was the son
of a rich man.
Joseph enrolled in Oxford University in 1760 where through his knowledge and interests in the
natural sciences introduced botanical lectures to the university.

After coming into possession of his father's vast fortune he set out on his first scientific expedition
in 1776 to Newfoundland and Labrador. Soon after returning from his short expedition, Captain
Cook was sent out to observe the transit of Venus in the Pacific Ocean and Joseph, with the
help of Lord Sandwich, joined the expedition.
The ship provided was the "Endeavour", he made very calculated and careful preparations, seeking
profit in every opportunity and brought along Dr. Daniel Solander, a pupil of Linnaeus.
A long voyage of 3 years ensued, difficult times and marvelous discoveries were made by Joseph
and he set out on yet another expedition with Cook, but it did not come to pass due to complications.

In 1781 he was honored with the title of baronet; in 1795, the order of the bath; and in 1797 he
joined the privy council. On the 19th of June 1820, Joseph passed
away in Isleworth. 
He accomplished many things, including becoming
president of the Royal Society in which position he did much to progress
science in Britain and brought together great scientific minds from
all over the world. Beatrice walked across the room
and looked at her ashen face in the mirror. She was digging her pretty nails deeply into the
pink flesh of her small palms.

"Why shouldn't I?", she inquired. "Why can't I, given that I'm in
terrible grief over having lost my honour?" The means best calculated to conserve the effectiveness
and to guarantee the mobility of the economic life of the world is self-government. No other known
means of controlling and directing and social affairs will secure everlasting results, either
of efficiency or of mobility. Margarita ne'er altered her older formulas by communicating
on him, just the balance by us, at Miss Jencks's dear prayer, fagged
ourselves affably called for to arouse the croaky "sure" and "no"
and "don't cognize" she bore indeed laboriously learned him.

 He spoke to the gentle
swain thusly, "The tragic Gerismond did not find his peace of mind until he had lost his kingdom.
He said it was better to rule among the poor in tranquility, than
to rule among the noble in jeopardy." Wide laces are used
extensively, covering the body, sleeves, as well as the skirts. Some of the skirts have as many
as two or three flounces. The two kinds of lace that are generally used to cover heavy silk are
either the English lace (application) or the Alençon point.
 Because the food is becoming insufficient, we cannot stay here.
But since there are no boats and no life-saving apparatus, he objected the idea of leaving. 
“That
is not a problem. We have to leave this place. We will testify that
is was our own decision written out on a document”. The code of laws of William the Conqueror,[AX] whom the English history
knows to have rendered his language almost universal. A great affinity bore with the present Romansh
of the Grisons will appear from the annexed translation of the first paragraph of these laws into
the latter tongue.[AY]
We may credit Du Cange,[AZ] for his assertion upon various instruments of the kings of Scotland
during the twelfth century, the Romance had also penetrated into that kingdom before that period.

Greatly approaching to those two idioms, must have produced in Italy a language the same corruption,
or fuse, which gave rise to the Gallic Romance, and to that of the Grisons. It did not want
its northern nations to contribute what the two other branches derived from that source.[BA]
But certainly a jargon very different from either the Latin or the Italian was spoken in Italy
from the time of the irruptions of the barbarians to the successful labours of Dante and Petrarca.
This jargon was called the vulgar idiom; but that Speroni,[BB] the father of an Italian literature,
others call it the common Italian Romance.If Fontanini's[BC] be sufficient, even the Gallic Romance,
by the residence of the papal court at Avignon, and other causes made its way into Italy before
it was polished into the Provençal.
As to Naples and Sicily, the expulsion of the Saracens by the Normans, under Robert Guiscard
in 1059, must have produced in that country nearly the same effect, a similar event brought
about in England. To prove this we have the authority of William of Apulia[BD]. The conquerors
considered the natives as one people after propagating their language
and manners.

And Hugo Falcland[BE] relates, that in the year 1150, Count Henry refused to the management
of public affairs, pretending not knowing French which was absolutely necessary at court.

A passage in Strabo,[BF] asserts that the Turditani inhabiting the banks of the Boetis, now the
Guadalquivir, forgot their original tongue, and adopted that of the conquerors. The language of
the Romans spread early into Spain,this must once have been common in that kingdom manifested
from the present name of the Spanish, which is still usually called Romance. It is evident
that Romance was used there in the fourteenth century appears from a correspondence between St. Vincent
of Ferrieres and Don Martin, son of Peter the IVth of Arragon;[BG] and that .[BH] considering the
circumstances, I am consider the fact related by Mabillon,[BI] that in the eighth century a paralytic
Spaniard, paying his devotions at the tomb of a saint in the church
of Fulda, conversed with an Italian since understood the language
of the Spaniard. These stamps, with a higher value of sixty dollars,
are prized as being some of the most beautiful in the world.

Looking at Fig. 2 we can see a stamp in current usage in Japan today. Comparing this with the
first issue of stamps in Japan, it is trivial to see how quickly Japan has adopted modern techniques.

In
Fig. 3, we see a quezal, one of the most beautiful birds from Central America, and the national
bird of Guatemala. The thick black line of either side is the quezal's tail. This stamp was
printed in Paris, but found it ways into collectors hands instead of being delivered to the
Guatemalan government.
Fig 4 and Fig 5 are stamps issued by Indian states. At this the wanton blushed, as being discompose to assume
what news should come from an unknown attendant; but taking the letters, unripped the seals, and
read over the converse of Phoebe's fancies.

When she had read and over-read them Ganymede began to be gracious, and looking on Montanus, fell
into a great laughter, and with that called Aliena, to whom she showed the writings.
Who, having perused them, proud them very competently, and smiled to see how love had biddable
her, who before would not sag to the call; Aliena soft Ganymede in the ear, and saying, "Knew
Phoebe what want there were in thee to perform her will, and how debilitated thy kind is to
be kind to her, she would be more wise, and less Appeal; but leaving that, I pray thee let us
sport with this admirer." At that word Ganymede, turning to Montanus, stsrted to glance at him[1]
thus:
"I pray thee, tell me, shepherd, by those sweet ideas and pleasing sighs that grow from my mistress'
melon, art thou in love with Phoebe?"  "Oh, my youth," quoth Montanus, "were Phoebe so far
in love with me, my compile would be more fat and their master more clammed up; for through the
sorrows of my displeasure grows the leanness of my sheep."

"Alas, poor swain," quoth Ganymede, "are thy passions so intense or thy adorned so resolute,
that no reason will blister the dignity of thy affection, and rase out that which thou strivest
for without hope?"
"Nothing can make me consign to oblivion Phoebe, while Montanus forget himself; for those characters
which true love hath embossed, neither the envy of time nor affluence can erase away."  
"Why
but, Montanus," quoth Ganymede, "enter with a beneath insight into the anguish of thy fancies,
and thou shalt see the declination of thine own follies; for, poor man, thy progress in love
is a deteriorate to loss, swimming contra the stream with the crab, and flying with Apis Indica
contra wind and weather. Thou seekest with Phoebus to win Daphne, and she aviate faster than
thou canst follow: thy desires soar with the hobby,[1] but her disdain reacheth higher than thou canst
make wing. I tell thee, Montanus, in move Phoebe, thou barkest with the wolves of Syria against
the moon, and rovest at such a mark, with thy belief,, as is beyond the pitch[2] of thy bow,
baptize to Love, when Love is pitiless, and thy malady immedicable. For proof, Montanus, read these
letters, wherein thou shalt see thy great follies and little anticipation."
With that Montanus attain them and perused them, but with such sorrow in his looks, as they
culled a source of misidentify passions in his heart; at every line his color changed, and every
sentence was ended with a period of sighs.  At last, noting Phoebe's intense desire toward
Ganymede and her disdain towards him, giving Ganymede the letter, the guide stood as though
he had neither won nor lost. Which Ganymede cognizant wakened him out of his dream thus:

"Now, Montanus, dost thou behold thou vowest great applicability and obtainest but little benefit;
but in lieu of thy honesty, she maketh thee, as Bellerophon, convey
thine own bane. Then drink not with approbation of that potion wherein
thou knowest is toxin; scramble not to her that accommodate not for
thee. Common sense view of the stage - like presentations Termini
serve. Our ideas and concepts and scientific theories pass for true only so far as they harmoniously
move back into the world of spirit.  I hope that many humanists of the things the way I look
at this effort than would support the necessary features to explore. I am almost certain that
Messrs. Dewey and Schiller will do that.

If the attackers will also take account of it minor, it is discussed that a little wide of the
mark has been far less than it would be.
VI  A WORD MORE ABOUT TRUTH  [Footnote: Reprint from the Journal of Philosophy, July 18, 1907.]
Failure to convert his concept of truth seems to me, if I judge what I hear in conversation,
is almost complete. A simple philosophical, feel frustrated and irritable a common curse of
God and the sinner will die after such a reception. But instead of taking the advice of despair,
I vary their statement to the bold, faint hope that repeated droppings can wear on stone, and
less ambiguous formula that takes me on a large scale 'which apperceive' and may be surrounded
by some of them. Other pragmatists, who are they, I'm trying to facilitate conception which
I shall speak of, for fear of being compromised as its concept. I first present in the first
book in the year 1885 in the article reprinted, published. Essential theses of this article was
supported independently in 1893 and 1895 Professor DS Miller [Footnote by: The Philosophical
Review, Vol. II, p. 408, and Psychological Review, Vol. II, p. 533.] And a presidential address
to learn things in 'repeated by me "were together [footnote: the relevant parts of which are
printed above, p. 43.] In 1895. Professor Strong, Philosophy, etc., [footnote Vol. i.p. 235 ]
in an article in the Journal: our account of the theory of sensation James Miller. Entitled "A
natural principle for the reality of the context of thought] 'is called,' and, as I understood
it, gave his adhesion. Nevertheless, this kind of the philosophy penetrably, each of these respected
colleagues privately that the true account of me now I - what I have to give, but the first set
and fully informed of the statement - of difficult for him to write clearly inadequate, and
the actual experience seems to leave out the essence.

If such close friends disagree, I hope people can remote from unfriendly critics?
Yet I'm sure my mistake so lame statement forms and should not lie in its theory that I once tried
to express myself I feel more inclined.
There are some general distinctions can help us who already do not agree? Professor Strong Hail
distinguishes between what he calls 'And what's up' relationship explains. 'Difference, for
example, "salutatory is a word as it immediately jump to another, but' time or distance in space
through which we experience in succession out of the middle parts of ambulate made. TH Green
was the most influential ideas years ago, I was very upset by criticisms of his English sensationalism.
One of his disciples in particular would always tell me, 'Yes! The embalmation
procedure was carried out in the deceased's room. The deceased's family had three ways to carry
out the preservation, each according to their social status He had totally given her his heart, leaving nothing for himself. But she just ignored it so
far, unless you want to count that half page letter. He wasn't going to wait any longer for
her, because the waiting was making him miserable and weak.

It was time for him to take care of himself./
 Our boat took a poor man who had to swim for his life when the rest
had fled for half an hour. Within three hours, I could not see more than three or four of
their boats, and as a breeze that lifted the candle.  At first, the man who took us on board
do not eat or talk, and we were all afraid, lest they should pine to death. But when I had
been taught to say a few words, told us his friends - the nature, the men had left their families
to get a big fight and all that meant was that we do look at the big eyes.
So that was why the poor dropped Friday! Which had been so good and true for me as a man can
be! And now, in deep sorrow I have to say goodbye to him.
We went with a favorable wind to the Bay of All Saints, and here I was with a sloop that had brought
me home, I could send men and stores for use by my friends on the island.
Mate taught me how to find the place, and when he returned, I found that I had done with ease.

One of the crew had a great desire to go with the boat, and live on the island, if the boss
would give the land to cultivate. So I said I should go by all means, and gave the wild man of
his slave. I found also that a man who had come with his wife and son and three slaves, to hide
the king of Spain, would like to go, if I could have some land that, although he was only
carrying a small stock to him, so I put them all on board the boat, and saw them safe from the
bay on their way to the island.
With them I sent three cows, five calves, a horse and pony, all of
which, as I heard, was unharmed.  
I do not feel more to say on
my island, as he had left last time, but life on land not far from
home unless it was not yet finished. This picture exemplifies the straight
and easiest way to reach the death of cold.  No. 206. "Two's company, Three's none," observed
the famous newspaper, as timid deeply, he sank away in the far remoteness. By MAURICE GREIFFEN
LAGEN.  No. 209. I see you there, oh moon of
dust, with Spring' reviver's eye. I have to risk my perfect want to sing a lullaby.
The field is getting older now, and trees are turning green. And I can see it in my child, as
no one yet had seen.
It was just yesterday, when birds were shouting me to wake up, but now they all are shy for me
while putting on my make up.
It always happens in the Spring, which hardly can resist it, and hardly ever I can say, regretfully,
"I missed it!"

And the wind blows of my hat, with miserable laughter, I have been here, I am am here, and I
will be after.
Who am I to see all that, all that gorgeous nature - it's impossible for me and for you to capture. 
That's
to hard for me to see that I have no measure, for how many - two or three - hats I gave with pleasure.

***
The woman with three friends while standing on the railway will definitely get killed if she
argues with a switchman.
All of the horses are afraid of the noise of trains, which made 19
of them leave our precious place only today. 
it is not always the
Nature to blame, when something goes wrong with your flowers, why
don't you ask your florist. 
Yes, there is this wooden fence, which
is often blamed for its disharmonious relation to the amor loci, but
is it actually forever? 
Despite the fact, that nature is dreadfully
damaged by our construction in progress, it is highly recommended
to continue the journey to the twopence tunnel for locals. But she is having very sweet nature. When she requested sorry, again she made a cake
by herself. We all love her beauty and she is looking like a queen. She is in a convenient position
to do what she wants to do according to her own thinking.  Dona Ester has her own beautiful
brown eyes and they are soft in nature for looking. Their inborn nature is very kind and mild
to feel. But she also has some kind of firm or assurance on her nature. She is willing to
behave on her own in all the time than Dona Beatriz. She is not at all so tall and she is average
in her height. She is looking very graceful also.

But she will be thinking herself as tall and she will be walking always as tall personality walks.
Was she honored by all the Spanish? In fact no is the answer. She is showing great kindness
to the Indians and when they are seeking her she is very kind to them. Indians also love her faithfully.
But that will not be equivalent and so much like Dona Beatriz.  Actually both girls are very
industrious in nature and they are well capable to sewing, making beautiful embroidery works
and also they are very clever in making elegant closes to wear at the ball. Yes they have
very beautiful balls and no one is equally having in California as they have. Sometimes they will
be spending their days just one fifty miles away from California. During such days, they will
be living with no care and will be jumping on the horse and going for dance till the dawn. They
will not feel tiredness at all. Even if there is any wedding or rodeo or dance, for more than
a week, they will be far away from their own residence without care.  In the winter, when their
family is living in San Diego; they were having a big house there. In their house, when there
is no rain, they will daily dancing all over the night especially by sitting on horse back. Also
they will be having so many horse races and playing so many games. Ay, yes! All the girls
are looking so pretty. They will not be wearing any hats, the ribose or something else or the
mantilla; their dresses will be always so bright and graceful in appearance. They will wear very
bright colorful dresses. Sometimes they will be highly decorated with fresh flowers in an entire
manner. Their skits will be very fuel and the waist will have the point. They will be wearing
de men’s closes and Madre de Dios. They will be made by very beautiful velvet cloth and they
are silky closes. They will be decorated with embroidery work in
silver and gold color threads.

Their saddles will look so fine. These are actually fact and I am not telling you the story. I
am telling all facts what I looked in direct.  One summer we are so many gays gathered together
than ever. So many caballeros love my senioritis. But I thought that they never love any one,
and never go to marry at all. For a month when we have the house fule; meriendas--peek-neeks,
you call, no? And races every day, dance in the night. Then all went to stay at another rancho.
It is costumbre and a place to visit the one to the other. I feel very sorry for two. They
are very handsome caballeros, who are more devoted with each other. But due to some reason, they
are looking very sad when they go. I am sure they proposed each other and no one was accepted
for the same. .  One day in the evening it is very quiet and I am sweeping the corridor and
I heard the voice of two horses galloping down the valley. I fixed my hand--so--like the barrel
de gun and looked. When I am looking the riding has become very hard. Don Carmelo Pelajo and
Don Rafael Arguello are riding their horses. The first one loves Doña Beatriz, the other, he want
Doña Ester. I went quickly and told Beatriz and some other girls. Beatriz tossed her head and
looked very scornfully. But, Ester was blushing and the eyes have become so happy. Some young
men came in few minutes and are well treated by Don Carlos and Doña Juana. , they liked these
things and them very much and are glad. So the girls got married with them.  "After supper,
I have turned down the bed in my señora's room. When I heard somebody is talking and there
voice is very low in sound on the corridor. I kneeled down on the
window-seat and looked out.

There I saw Don Rafael have his arms on Doña Ester and kissing her. She was also co-operating
him without any kind of hesitation. I wondered how they get out there by themselves. For the
Spanish very street with the girls and no 'low that.
 The jews have rendered spiritual things to the world service but they
were not able to give anything for material progress of the world. The jew should lead the
world when spirit becomes the atmost desire of men and the jew should be prepared for such a
time as it is nearing by and it may try to light the world whiich had doomed in darkness.
PRESIDENT ARTHUR T.HADLEY of Yale university before the Yale Menorah Society, October 14,1914
Standing beside the Menorah emblem of light in which it is inscribed "the outward and visible
sign of the inward and spiritual grace" I am glad to talk of Menorah society. The Jewish literature
is worthy enough to be studied deeply.As this is the common heritage of all who value culture
and education should study this. Studying the literature of the jewish race men can do a great work
for learning and to inspire their country as the ancient greek and Latin classics revived Europe
from the dark age. The enthusiastic scholars of that time devoted
themselves for this study and Europe was roused from the so called
dark ages.

Classics are literarture of truths which is applicable for the whole world. Hebrew classics have
the same or above position of that of Greek and Latin classics.Theologians keep their interest in the
Hebrew literature not just because of professional interest but for universal development
and experience. These writimgs do much for humanity. Biblical writings meant much to me personally.
In my young ages I haven't read much as today's youngsters but I considered the psalms and
Isaiah as fantastic poety and found bible as treasure of historical literature. American settlements
resembles that of Cannan settlement by the Hebrews. This is because the pilgrim fathers considered
Old Testament as their guide in all matters and Jewish theoracy was their model of government
and this showed good results. The early institutions of the US were a copy of Jewish Institutions
and the spirit of American people cannot be assesed without the knowledge of Hebrew litrature.
 "But in the name of God, I rebuked
her, and she offered repentence with her knees bent."
"Weel, I daursay she's been ower far wi' the dragoons' said Haddo. "I never denied that. I ken
naething by it."
You show your nakedness more clearly," said M'Brair. "Poor, blind, besotted creature-- and
I know you are at the point of dissolution: your light is out and your hours are close. Awake,
man! he yelled out with a formiddable voice.

Be damned if I could take this! shouted Haddo. slamming his tobacco
pipe violently on the table. It shattered into many pieces. Get out
of my house or I'll call the dragoons. 
"I am with the Speerit of
the Lord," M'Brair ecstatically said. A member of the National Convention after he was
sent in mission to Lyon, where instead of healing the wounds of the inhabitants, he imposed
new ones. As on 15 March 1796, in the Council of Five Hundred, he pronounced the oath of hatred
to royalty, he added that this oath was in his heart, otherwise no power on earth can force
him to have to take it, and he is now a oath about Napoleon the first! He said the eulogy
of Robespierre and the apotheosis of Marat. "The soul," he said, was relocated and increased in
consultation with the Supreme Being Robespierre spoke with philosophical
ideas embellished by eloquence, "and he signed the removal of the
ashes of Marat consecrated to the temple of humanity!

In September 1797 he was a royalist, condemned to transportation through the Directory, but
Bonaparte, in 1799 called him, made him the first time a tribune and later Senator.  Boissy
d'Anglas, although an apologist of robbers and murderers, neither murdered nor looted, but, even
though he has not himself, he has in all his ruin former protector, patron support, and friends.

Sers, a third member of this Commission was before the revolution, the bankrupt merchant in
Bordeaux, but in 1791 was an officer of the municipal same city, and sent as a Member of the
National Assembly, where he tried from the increase in clouds, its heavy genius pulled down
by a movement for all the statues of the kings in France included. He sent another movement Bonaparte
Prefect Jean Debrie to prescribe, a corps of tyrannicides determined to murder all the emperors,
kings and princes.
 He swiftly moved towards her
and asked "You did and why did you? His face lighten up with emotion, but that was a cool and
pure but it did not look very good. She screamed and shouted 'wrong'. He replied tenderly that
she was correct that he had done many right things but this was wrong, Miss Vancourt? As a woman
you have the power and privilage to decline to smoke as a hostess and saved your women friends from
making fools of themself, but this time his face was full of smiles.
He mentioned again that you can be a role model for obedience. Most of the book is filled with a series of letters from one of these prisoners
to their mother. Perhaps (suspected) the author of these was not quite a normal young man. For
whatever reason, it is certain that his letters are far uncheery reading, his books and study, most
of all her friends (with a fellow prisoner, especially), seem to
have kept him happy and content, even.

Of course, any part of this may well have been colored by the mother's eyes, is clearly deeply
concerned that should not be too worried about him. A more impartial Ruhleben conditions given
in the second half of the volume, and a letter from Sir Timothy Eden, reproduced in The Times,
in the case of a greater exchange of civilian prisoners.  I should add that the book is illustrated
with a series of drawings of Ruhleben Mr. Stanley Grimm, an artist of the Expressionist school (whatever
that is). These are vigorous and detention if, in view unmodern, something formless. But they
are part of a record that every Englishman can be studied with accelerated sympathy and great
pride in the value and resources of our race as unnecessarily brutal conditions at their worst
and never better than just bearable.
* * * * *
Nothing will convince me that this output (Methuen) is an attractive title for a novel, however
efficient it may get a notice in a train station. The book itself, however, it is interesting
despite its sadness. The grandfather of Jane and John-Andrew roam over a murder in cold blood -
this in the foreword. Then, when we get to the real story, we meet Jane playing the popular
fiction at an amazing rate, and his brother, John Andrew, who live
in the same product. When saturated with water, a clay block should
not imbibe more than 20 per 100, of its own burden of water, should imbibe it reluctantly, and part
with it without hesitating at common temperatures. It should be evenly destroyed by blast,
should be sound, free from crevices, flaws, boulders, portions of any kind, but principally
portions of lime, should be of a good shade of color for its sort (whether red, yellow, or white),
should have a metallic clang when two clay blocks are smacked together;
when broken should be sound right through, should be sturdy and pasty
in texture, not granular, and should demand replicated hits to smash
it, as an alternative one hard hard bang (such clay blocks will withstand
cartage and dealing best).

So much for bricks. To make brickwork, even so, another element is required--namely, mortar or
cement.
All mortars and, in item, all the cementing elements employed (except bituminous ones) in bricklaying
have lime as their foundation, and be reliant upon the setting worth of quicklime, which has to
be combined with sand or some appropriate replacement for it, to make mortars. Limes and cements
are far too large a subject to be handed out with as part of an evening's teach on another subject,
and no suspect they will hereafter configuration the subject of a teach or lectures. To-night
I recommend only to recollect you that there are such materials as these, and that they have certain
attributes and are obtainable and obtainable for the bricklayer's intents, without endeavouring
an examination into the chemistry of cements, or their fabricate, etc. Ordinarily, brickwork
may be pulled apart into brickwork in mortar and in cement; but there are more attributes of
mortar and numerous types of cement. Mortar made with what are called fat or affluent limes--that
is to declare, close to wholesome lime, for instance is got by calcining
marble or wholesome chalk--sets leisurely, with annoyance, and is
hardly ever tenacious.

Burnt plastic loam or clay block lessened to fine particles enhances the setting of such lime,
principally if the two elements be calcined together; so will an admixture of cement. Mortar
made with what is famous as to some extent hydraulic lime, that is to declare, lime comprising
a tiny fraction of plastic loam, for instance the gray boulder lime of Dorking, Merstham, and
that locality, collections well, and is tenacious and strong.

Mortar made with hydraulic lime, that is to declare, lime with a ample admixture of plastic
loam, for instance the lias lime, collections under water or in acquaintance with moist earth.
It is best to use this lime ground to fine particles, and not to combine so much sand with
it as is employed with boulder lime.
 When doing
a consumption test, there are three valves which have to be opened. The inlet valve is one
of them. When the lever labeled K is pulled down the inlet valve to the first tank is unlocked
but locks the valve to the second tank. The lever named L which is known as the bottom lever
when lifted opens the valve known as the outlet valve labeled F and also the valve G. The valve
G does not have to be taken into account. As soon as the turbine is turned on, vapor known
as condensed steam begans to gather in the condenser and the water starts traveling through the
pipes. Since both the inlet valves and outlet valves are opened, the water does not get deposited
in the tank, but instead goes into the drain. This process is continued until conditions are
ideal for the consumption test so that the valves F and G can be closed by quickly pulling down
the lever L. The first tank begins to fill and after about a quarter of an hour has passed, the
flow of water is turned to the second tank when the lever K is pushed up. While the second tank
is getting filled, measurements of the water in the first tank are recorded and then all water
from the tank removed by using a sluice valve large in size which is not displayed.
The whole performance of periodically putting in, estimating and removing the water from the tanks
is carried out until the estimated time of the test ends. This would be when the entire amount
of water in both tanks as well as the the amount of vapor condensed during the test is added together.

For the test results to be successful,the organization involved in
the consumption test should make sure the equipment they use runs
smoothly and the test is done properly.

Usually it is preferred to find how much of the condensed vapor there is by weighing it than
to measure the quantity of volume passed and from the result to calculate the weight. If the
condensed steam is measured by its volume, changes such as increasing the time of the test as
well as recording how much of the water filled evaoprated would have to be done. But all in
all, there would not be a huge change by doing this. But by using the measuring method, the
responsibilty of recording the results of the tanks would fall on the tester. One way of doing
this would be for the tester to keep a separate scale to show the actual reading of what's
in the tank at all times.
The accurate readings of the results would be successful as long as the tester takes the time to
inspect the tanks and make sure its in working condition.
There is no doubt there would be instances when certain conditions would have an impact on
the outcome of the test, but to record each and every condition that affects the test is not
always possible. Therefore it's always best to do the test once the machine has been built
at its intended place. At a time when the general dissatisfaction and fervor are prompted
by the works of those interested in instilling a dangerous class and
divisional acrimony and enmity among people, I would ask the universities
and colleges to ring the alarm bell for the sake of American brotherhood
and fraternal dependence.

I demand that our universities and colleges declare the laws and the operations of national laws,
which people are deceived into thinking can be changed by their voting, unchangeable, unshakable
and beyond the power of politics. In case, people ask for unfair and improper individual
portions of the government resources and demand other areas that belong to the people of country
as their prizes for serving the party and self centered reasons, then it is time for the our
universities and colleges to prevail on the people to give up their unfair claims on the party
spoils and, instead, call upon them to show unselfish and nationalistic love and loyalty for their
government, whose clean function ensures that its people are given their due portion of protection
and wealth that it has in its capacity. The institution and organization which are religious and
moral in nature are, hereby, urged by me to send people and messages to proudly acknowledge
God, and spread His digression and interposition in matters concerning men and require them
to be dutiful to His laws so that it helps and puts us on the road to national perpetuity and prosperity.
--GROVER CLEVELAND, delivered at the Princeton Sesqui-Centennial, 1896.  EULOGY OF LEE A great
concern for others is the basis of all real bravery and heroic deeds.

The ultimate articulation of true heroism is giving up or eschewing. When somebody boasts
of being a hero, it tmakes the world doubt him. But we acknowledge and bow to a real hero when
we know in our hearts that he is indeed a true hero and welcome him with adoration and awe,
for we see that a strong, upright, true, and brave man is the best of God’s creation. Robert
lee was one of that kind of hero whose assured safety to us and to mankind. We see him refusing to
accept the command of the federal army and to lead the fight and be part of the problems and
woes of his people and later acknowledging that it was his mistake that resulted in the big
disaster just before Gettysburg and then taking command and directing his men in difficult
times of combat, and then taking the burden of conquest without grudging, complaining and
denying wealth, and instead chose to coach the young people of his country the ways of duties
and all the while he was shy and gallant and selfless. He showed greatness, when he was leading
his few and tired as they marched ahead everyday and spent nights
in bloodied fields, to be bloodied again the next day, as he showed
it in leading a peaceful day to day civil life.

And now he has gone from us forever. You are wrong to think that his only remains are the dust
under the marble stone. In fact they live on as time tells, as they emerge from depth of time as
the prizes of the terrible wars fought, won or lost by collapsed kingdoms or estates, for it is
the names of those who brave sacrificed theirs for sake of his fellow beings for love and fear
of God that are revered and prized as the present shows us by bowing by his grave.
 I don't know
how a lot years it is since, as "MILES AMBER," she captured my admiration with that wonderful
former fresh, Wistons; and already here is her second, Sylvia Saxon (UNWIN), alone just appearing.
I may say at once that it fully proves my impression that she is a author of very actual and
original gifts. Sylvia Saxon is not a harmonious book. It is steely, many than a little sour,
and consciously unsympathetic within treatment. But it is grimly real. Sylvia herself is a spirit
that stays, and her mother, Rachel, almost eclipses her within this equivalent quality of disastrous
vitality. The complete tale is a tragedy of unfilled and meaningless stays traversed within an
atmosphere of too much finance and too little significance.

The "society" of a Northern manufacturing plutocracy, the display and rivalry, the marriages
between the enriched households, the absence of any regular except wealth--all these things
are predetermined down with the minute realism that ought arrive, I am sure, of sexual personal
knowledge. Sylvia is the children of one such relations, and mated towards the decadent heir of
another. Her tragedy is that too late she greets a man whom she imagines capable of granting her
the fuller, many finalise life for which she has always ignorantly yearned. Then there is
Anne, the penniless girl, rented as a child towards be a playfellow for Sylvia, whom herself
relishes the equivalent man, and dies when his dawning affection is ruthlessly dusted away
from her via the dominant personality of Sylvia. A tale, one powers dub it, of unhappy women;
not made the less grim via the fact that the man for whom they battled is guided as entirely
unworthy of such emotion. A mighty, interrupting and greatly original story.
* * * * * AURELIUS CORNELIUS CELSUS.De medicina. SERENUS, QUINTUS. De medicina. Venetiis,
in ædibus Aldi et Andreæ soceri, 1528.  THE TITLE: IN HOC VOLVMINE HAEC CONTINENTVR. AVRELII
CORNELII CELSI MEDICINAE LIBRI .VIII. QVAM EMENDATISSIMI, GRAECIS ETIAM OMNIBVS DICTIONIBVS
RESTITVTIS. QVINTI SERENI LIBER DE MEDICINA ET IPSE CASTIGATISS.

ACCEDIT INDEX IN CELSVM ET SERENVM SANE QVAM COPIOSVS. Venetorum decreto, ne quis aliquo in
loco Venetæ ditionis hos libros imprimat, impressosue alibi uendat, cautum est. Fol.
 Mars wasn't really inviting to Miran ships because they couldn't land in the
northwestern or the south central regions. Their great beams had been calculated so exactly that
they were effective at a range of almost twelve hundred miles.
A half-hearted attack was made on Deenmor station, as the Mirans were pretty unsettled about
UV beams of fifteen feet. When two ships were damaged, the Mirans
retreated to Jupiter, although they held Phobos and Deimos. We have proof
that shows how strong the supremacy of paterfamilias at the begining of the eight century was.
A proof of this was when Pompeius was asked, what he would do if
Caesar resisted the requirements of the Senate.

Pompeius answered "What if my son should raise his stick against me?". His meaning was that resistance
by Caeser was not even anything to ever worry about. The society that once welcomed
him no longer does so. He attributes his exclusion to his following his father's advice of refusing
to engage in play and unavoidably showing his superior sense of taste,
which he believes has given offense. A man with the ordinary
instruments can earn a piano within approximately four months, but it could not maybe be as nice
a one as those caused within the wide establishments. Nor, indeed, is such a feat ever tackled
within the United States. The low producers, whom build from one towards five organs a week,
loosely, as already mentioned, buy the different branches from fellows whom earn alone parts. It
is a corporation towards earn the hammers of a piano; it is another corporation towards earn
the "action"; another, towards earn the keys; another, the legs; another, the cases; another,
the pedals. The build of the hardware consumed within a piano is a crucial agent, and it is a
discern corporation towards sell it. The London Directory enumerates forty-two different jobs
and corporations related towards the piano, and we assume there are not fewer within New York.
Consequently, any man whom knows adequate of a piano towards put one together, and can instruction
capital adequate towards buy the branches of one organ, may boldly throw his sign towards
the breeze, and proclaim himself towards an inattentive social as
a "piano-forte-maker."

The alone trouble is towards sell the piano when it is put together. At show it prices rather
many finance towards sell a piano than it does towards earn one. When the instance is ceased,
everybody except the final hand-polish, it is robbed towards the sounding-board room. The
sounding-board--a thin, noticeable sheet of spruce below the strings--is the piano's soul, longing
which, it were a dead thing. Almost every resonant mineral within nature has been endeavoured
for sounding-boards, but nothing has been located equal towards spruce. Countless experiments
possess been made with a look towards determine precisely the greatest distance of shaping,
planning, and fixing the sounding-board, the greatest thickness, the greatest number and direction
of the backing ribs; and every great producer is glad within the
conviction that he is a little better within sounding-boards than
any of his rivals.

Next, the rows are inserted; next, the affair and the keys.
 It was at this point that the lethal breach showed up, which habitually,
it seems, forestalls perfection in the chain. If I had been able to secure a death certificate
for the incident occuring on the date of the blizzard, I daresay I would have been closer to a
soul than I ever hope to be until I myself revert to one. S. C. CLARKE
NOTATIONS:
Commentaries upon the "language of flowers" should, for sake of closure, devote one chapter
to their political implications. Great Britain had its "War of Roses"; and regarding this tiff,
a moderate mockery might issue from a French "Strife of the Flowers". The violet has been adopted
as a Bonapartist insignia, and when, in spring last year, Napoleon expired in banishment, and his
supporters looked for some demonstrative of their devotion to his remembrance and his movement,
violets as butonnieres began to be seen everywhere speaking softly of the still-flaming dedication
felt towards the banned faction. However, there surfaced one unprognosticated product of this
affirmation, for in Marseille where the republic is missed, the flower-mongers noticed that
their sales of violets were lagging, due to the widespread suspicion of this once beloved and harmless
blossom. It is well-nigh unthinkable that the third largest municipality in France should have
thus confronted one of Nature's most redolent bequests.

Nonetheless , if the innocuous Violet is to suffer the same fate
bestowed upon Sedan, then when Bourbonism raises up its humiliated
visage, will the Lily be blackballed in the Lyons marketplace in the
same manner as the Violet is cynically distrusted in Marseilles?

And if the revolutionaries opt the red poppy for their emblem, would
it reciprocally be rejected by liliphiles?

If so, then with there being in France a surfeit of political parties,
both old and new, which flower may a Frenchman don, nay grow, and
be safe from a mob of this or that partisan, which chooses some other
posy for their badge.

= = = = =

Multitudes of folk who have spent their summer in the rural areas,
and have become used to taking lengthy drives, will attest to observing
one prodigious deficiency in the outlying thoroughfares.

That is the dearth of guide-posts. There is no more effective device for extending to a tourist
a striking vision of the paucity of population in the country areas than to allow him to get
lost. Localities which he might have supposed to be heavily populated will seem oddly barren
of human habitation. In the cities, where one can find a hundred citizens living on any two streets
and ready and willing to give directions, nevertheless the local government sees fit to meticulously
plant signs at every intersection; but in the hinterlands, where one might go a mile before seeing
man or residence, you are hard pressed to find a guide-board at every
fifth junction.

This deficiency may be more severe in metropolitan suburbs than elsewhere,
due to the fact that in lesser peopled areas, the main thoroughfare
at the least is typically easy to maintain.

Sometimes, though, the guidepost is a joke, its painted-on letters
having so faded as to be ilegible, or having lost its board to a strong
gust of wind, or reversed by some prankster, who counts on the local
gendarmes to ignore his tomfoolery.

So much time and temperment would be redeemed for travellers if road
signs were increased by a factor of four all over the country.

= = = =

=
 I asking them no
dark in the world--on the opposition, faculty do them every ripe in my cause, and live that
they are misled by those to whom they bang given their friendship; but our physical, sociable,
and political interests are naturally with the whites. Mr. Painter' try was secure for the
last of this month. If Judge Movement's presence is must, I do not see how it can  suffer space,
unless that of Mr. Author is to be delayed. I speculate that module be decided to-day or to-morrow,
and then I shall see what to judge. I shall not go to Richmond unless requisite, as it is
e'er inconvenient for me to pass interior, and I am not at all fit. Your inferior care is also
author ill than she is ordinarily, in event of a glacial she has confiscate. But it is passing gone,
I bank. I must departure you to her and Mildred for all localised and domesticated  information.
Custis and the boys are advantageously, and 'Powhattie,' I comedian has got rid of the chills.
We probe regularly from Mother and Agnes, who seem to be enjoying
themselves, and I do not reckon from their performance that they testament
get corroborate to us deedbox season.

All unify in untold eff, and I am e'er, Your parent,  "R. E. Lee."
This comparable month he writes a desire missive to his girl Agnes, who was temporary friends in
Metropolis.

The Annette, Mildred, and Mother he mentions in this missive were the daughters of River Henry
Hauler, of "Goodwood," Colony, a prototypic relation of my padre:
"City, Virginia, District 28, 1868.
"My Wanted Agnes: I was so gladsome to recognise your text, to inform that you were cured and
enjoying yourself among beautiful friends. I hope that you give presently get finished all your
visits and uprise internal. Your uncle Sculptor says you girls ought to marry his sons, as you
both chance it so agreeable to be from domicile, and you could then resilient a literal European
account and jazz a paradisal minute mostly. But I do not concord with him; I shall not ply my consent,
so you must decide elsewhere. I  screw longhand to Annette telling her of my device for her. Now
that Mildred is meshed, and she sees how some Mother is in hump,
I emotion she gift piece up an Daemon next, so that she had advisable
run forth to the mountains at erst.

I am cheerful that you saw Mr. Jazzman. It is a wicked attribute to feature this continuation
ornamentation over him, and to be unable to fix his thoughts on a education of vivification
or cover his safekeeping to the link of his pedigree. But I expectation a form Providence faculty
protect and  run him. You moldiness recollect me to all my friends, the Taggarts, Glenns,
McKims, Marshalls, etc.... As to the girlish ladies you mean, you staleness swear them that
I require to see them really often, and comic that they give all proceed to the mountains this
summer, and not toss us by in Metropolis. When you go to 'Goodwood' and the Asian Beam, do the
aforementioned there for me, and present me to all by analyse. Archer sugariness Sallie Solon
I judge she ought to amount to Concord, if only to simulation those babies; but in  quality
the want to see her many than them, so she may depart them with Star Beggarly [her mate], if
she chooses. You moldiness see everybody you greeting and bask yourself as overmuch as you can, and
then come lodging. I told Mildred to recite you if you desirable
any finances you moldiness let me couple and where to transport them. The
insult had stung me. I do not know why! More than all the gibes that were being flung at me from every
side, and moved by a sudden impulse I stopped with bitterness in my heart, I had spoke to her.
"Mademoiselle,' I said, bowing to her, as she looked like a small fairy more than a woman through
her face expressed both pride and self will--'Mademoiselle,' I said sternly, I have fough for
France! Some day you hopefully learn that there are worst things in the world--and have to
bear them-- than a poor gentelman!"
The words were quickly out of my mouth before I repented them, for Mathurine, the fool who was
at my elbow, was fast to turn them into riduicule or something worst
than it was.

Raising her hands above or bodies, as a act to pray, she cried out loud taht Monsieur, having gained
so rich an office, desired a bride to grace it; and this, bringing down upon us a coarse noices
of laughters and some more coarser gibes, I saw the young womans face flush fire red.
The next moment a voice in the crowd cried aloud 'Out upon his wedding suit!' and with that a
sweetmeat struch me in the face. Another and anoother followed, covering my body with flour and
comfits. This was the absolutely last straw. For a moment, forgetting my state of mine, I turned
to them, angry and furious with red in my face, every hair in my moustachious bristling. The
next, the full sense of my impotence and of the folly of resentment prevailed with me, I dropped
my head upon my brest, as I ran from the room.
I believe that the younger people among the group had followed me, and that the cry of 'Old Clothes!'
pursued me even to the door my home in the Rue de la coutellerie. But in the misery of the moment,
and my strong desire to be withing doors and alone, I barely noticed them.
Chapter I. THE KING OF NAVARRE
I have already referred to the danger with the alliance between Henry
the Third and the League menaced us, an alliance whereof the news,
it was said,had blanched the King of Navarre's moustache in a single
night.

The Court had not once shown itself more frolicsome or more free
than care than at the time of which I am speaking about; even the
lack of money was forgotten.

One amusement moment followed another, and though without doubt, something was going under the
surface for the wiser of the people held our prince in a particular dread when he seemed most
deeply sunk in pleasure--to the eyes of St. Jean d'Angely appeared to be given over to enjoy
one end to the other.
The stir and activity of the Court reached me even in my garet, and contributed actions to make that
Christmas, which was on a sunday, a trial almost beyond thought. All day long the rattle of
hoofs on the pavement, and the laughter of riders bent on diversion, came up to me, making the
hard stool seem harder, the bare walls more bare, and increasing a hurndrefold the solitary gloom
in which I sat. For the sunshine to go down and the shadown to appearm no silence is like
that which follows an explosion of a mine. Sadness and poverty are nevermore intolerable than
hope and weath.
True, the great sermon which M. d'Amours taught in the markethouse on the morning of Christmasday cheered
and excited me, as I cheered an called all the sober spirits. I was present sitting in a small
corner of the building and heard thve very famous prediction which
was so soon fuilfilled. The fire in my heart burned with passion, but it kept
me from speaking! That minute when your mother came in and asked me, it was still glistening
inside me, or I could've as an honest kind hearted man, should have turned down her request.
I am coming to you as an honest man my biggest confession. You should know you have to do
with--between us no confusion should surfice. You see that I have little answers, I love you
and only you--no one else--neither in my head nor my heart!!

'DM. SANIN.'
He was to the point where Sanin was about to ring for the waiter after sealing the note.... 'No!'
he thought, 'it would'nt be right... By Emil? But to come to my workplace and search for him
among my other employes, would also be awkward. Also its too late in the day now, he has most
likely gone about the rest of his day. Reflecting on his actions, Sanin put on his hat, but, went
into the street; he passed a corner and turned, turned another, and to his dismay, saw Emil before
him. Holding a satchel under his arm, and a roll of papers in his hand, the young enthusiast
was rushing home.
'They may say that every lover is a lucky one,' thought Sanin, and
he called to Emil.

The latter tilted and at once rushed to him.
Sanin cut a short to his transports, passed him the note, and explained how and to who it was
supposed to be delivered... Emil listened with concentration.
'So that no one sees?' he replied, automatically assuming a most important
and suspenseful air, that said, 'We understand the inner meaning of
it all!' 
'Yes, my friend,' said Sanin and was a little disconcerted;
however, he patted Emil on the cheek... 'And if there should be a
reply... You will bring it to me, won't you? His attachment to the rule, and his terror
of flattering that slave to revelry usage which all public men should of necessity more or less
manner of themselves, would have keep him in his inhabitant state, and completed his value sectional.
To the politicians of the school of universal Jackson, and to the
management of that President, he was chiefly repugnant.

His stubborn conservatism drew forth from the "old hero," on solitary instance, the comment, that
"he was the most unsafe man in the country." Lord Eldon, with his misgivings and stubborn
tourism was not more disliked amongst the reformers in England than was moderator tale—the
last of the old command of federal judges—with the bank radical of 1832.
When Chief Justice Marshall died he felt approximately heartbroken. A new race of legitimate
expounders had arisen about him.

Brother Justices, with current construction, and more open-minded
philosophy of nationwide law, were by his side.

In many decisions he was now a sole dissenter.

His pride was invaded; his self-love tormented; his high regard of
confident legal construction which he had deemed unchallengeable in
their nature was dishonored.

And, for many years previous to his passing, he had contemplated
resigning from the federal judiciary and living alone for his dear
rule discipline.

This discipline was his adopted child.

He had in use it in a delicate and powerless babyhood.

He had decided it influence and distended strength.

He brings it up to a advance and useful fatherhood. It was cherished by only a handful of student
when he gave his name and aptitude to aid its life: but when he died, a hundred and fifty pupils
were its warm suitors, and hundreds of lawyer over the complete mixture valued its affluence
as a link in their own handcuffs of joy.
And, although he thought not of it, his labors in the law instruct protected for his nostalgia
in the in turnout cohort a more glowing continued existence than his collection of legal decision,
and his thousands of printed pages, can ever give. In a digit of sulk woodland conclusion of
Maine, or in a digit of ill-mannered centralized courtyard in California, there are lawyers who
bring before them every day his friendly smile and his imposing lectures, looked upon and heard
by them in previous times at Cambridge. Over all the Union, in approximately each village,
town, and city, is his pupils. Each one of them may from time to time replicate with rapture
upon their days of college life, or remember with pride their first professional success: but
not solitary of these consideration of recollection is so appreciative to his mind as the
consideration of his novitiate with Justice Story. Depend upon it he treasures up those Cambridge
text-books, those Cambridge note-books whose leaves daguerreotype the learning of the eminent
deceased, and those catalogues of students where his name is conceitedly found, as the most
expensive portion of his documents.

He will by no means part with them: but they will move down to his brood.
It was our privilege and enjoyment also to know Mr. Justice Story at Cambridge; to have exhausted
days of enjoyment in the hours of his civilization; to have rendered to his tradition the compliment
of pleased concentration and thankful remembrance. We, too, have been enthralled with that discussion,
whose diversity of enthusiasm and occasionally selfishness, were its furthermost ornaments.
 Even though he leaves a
strong impression with his reader of the ongoing development of social man, he leaves an even stronger
impression of the uselessness of troublesome efforts of those-- he himself among others-- who
are pushing forward as wierd and exclusive advocates of growth. He shows an attitude and mentality
of an innovator, as helpless as he is daring to design; at the same time he deals harshly with
the evil European political party. Whether it can be called liberal or part of the movement,
whose most clear purpose is apparently to break men free from the
bondage of the government. The
source of the Thames spans roughly 10-15 miles of countryside, and, excepting the waterways
that pass through mountainous terrain, this source, like that of other rivers, is minuscule by
comparison to the bulk of the remainder of the river. This is especially true of the Thames, which
has the greatest length of navigable waters among European riverways, and is also blessed with
but a brief stretch of unusable river at its source.

There is some disagreement about the exact location of the head waters for the Thames, and which
lesser waterways are truly tributaries to it, and about where, precisely, the river itself begins.
The Churn, for example, isn't lesser as such because, after the canal
was excavated, it actually has a greater flow that the riverlet at
the beginning of the Thames.

Whatever the case, that bit of the Thames than is unusable for boat traffic begins at the identical
place, the third of three intuitive divisions along the length of the English valley in which
the river runs, like a motorway, from the west into the east. Other limiting features occur
at London Bridge, which is to say at Cricklade, or maybe somewhere between Cricklade and Lechlade
(and nearer to the former).

Note, also, that rivers have an additional geographical value and historic purpose. The Thames
can be described as a kind of motorway from west to east via water, and also as a barrier, limiter,
and line between north and south on land.

This feature has been a big part of the story of every mighty waterway, and is important to the Thames
as well, though maybe not quite as much as in the case of deeper waters or those that are faster
running. Even so, the Thames's function as a barrier is of greater historical significance
than the same aspect of the Lombardy region's faster running Po river and of the treacherous
waters of the Loire valley at the heart of the French homeland. The Thames valley separated
the land ruled almost entirely by the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Mercia, the original source of the
oft-reviled lowland accents and, in addition, our English system
of weights and measures, from the heart of England proper, an important
separation that lasted all the way up to the most recent industrial
revolution.

As a military obstacle, the Thames had a big role to play as well,
significant in the history of warfare on English soil; though, of
course, we have to take into account that the military value of it
as a barrier decreased every time another bridge was set across her. We shall keep silence over the come
back of that manfrom sea. Even if the man is skilled enough to hook the fish, he could catch
the fish from the rough sea merely because of his luck. It is nothing but the same luck happen in
statesmanship. It is seen that the big fishes are hooked on the same place in the middist of
fast current and algae-bed. Here too the man could catch the fish in.
 Those guilty of robbing on the highway or in a house are drowned and left on a stake for days.
If the victim happens to be an inman or priest, they will be burned alive.
 Then
he created music for the queen who lilted a song, and later a flautist alone. Finally, they
tested him with the bass which was part of Handel's sonnets, for which he created such a lovely tune
that everyone in audience was captivated in surprise.
 He cared very deeply for his son, to the point of excess. On the account of people that
knew him in St. Helena, evidence of his concern for the yound man's well being was clear.
"He was the reason I returned from the Island of Elba, and everything else I do is for him as well."
He told the folks that he stayed with that he was continually anxious on the boy's account.
 

Polignac's infantry, twelve hundred muskets, was posted onto the Boeuf within backing interval
of the two last. Liddell's seven hundred newly-organized horse, with four guns, was of little
service beyond making feints towards distract the enemy.

Major reached his grading onto the 30th, and onto the consecutive day, the 1st of May, captured
and sunk the transport Emma. On the 3d he captured the transport City Belle, onto her distance
up towards Alexandria, with the 120th Ohio regiment onto board. All the officers and two hundred
and seventy-six men were robbed, with a lot killed and wounded. On the evening of the 4th the
gunboats Covington and Signal, each mounting eight heavy guns, with the transport Warner, tackled
towards pass. The Covington was blown up via her crew towards evade capture, but the Signal
and Warner surrendered.

Four guns, two three-inch rifled and two howitzers, were engaged
within this affair with the Covington and Signal.

They were operate up towards the river's bank via hand, the howitzers above, the three-inch
rifles beneath the gunboats, which, overpowered via the rapid flame, transported back and forth until
one surrendered and the else was spoilt, affording a finalise depiction of the advantage of field
guns towards gunboats within narrow streams. There was none further tackle towards traverse Major's
grading, and Federal message with the Mississippi was finished for fifteen days.

During these campaigns the enemy was engaged night and day within the construction of a dam across
the Red River, towards enable him towards traverse his fleet again the falls; and the consecutive
withdraws from the inform of Admiral Porter towards the Secretary of the Navy well exhibit the mood
of affairs within and round Alexandria ("Report onto the Conduct
of the War," vol. ii., page 250):

"FLAG-SHIP CRICKET, ALEXANDRIA,
April 28, 1864.

"SIR: I possess composed you an fund of the campaigns of the fleet
within these waters, but rob the liberty of composing towards you
privately the true state of affairs. Casts can be removed from their molds by minute heating of the mold, but this often
results in breaks. Less affected by condensation of the air's water are insulators, only beaten
by fused quartz. Insulators are unfortunately weal and often crack with exposure to daily temperature
changes, but despite this, their electrical properties make them extremely useful.
 All old or new pastors, archbishops, bishops, cures, vicars, preachers,
hospital and prison chaplains, superiors and directors of seminaries
must follow a certain routine before they can minister to the general
public.

This routine includes that they must state in writing that they are ready to take the oath and
they must also take this oath in front of an audience. Specifically, they must "in the presense
of the general council, the commune, and the faithful" they "maintain with all they power" this
oath of remaining faithful to their duties. These duties to the Prebyterian Church are a prescribed
oath that tells the public these men and women are ready to serve without reservations.
 

It is wonderful the admirable contractors' organisations. The grading works are done by sub-contractors.
Messrs. Langdon, Sheppard & Co. is doing the bridge work. They did the srfacing and track
laying works and putting the supplies by them. The sub-contractors never expect to haul supplies
over 100 miles, but the grading forces were scattered along about 150 miles and the supply
stores about 50 miles. 

PICK OUT THESE LETTERS AND FIX THE DIRECT ROAD TO BRASSO BY THE SAXON LAND.YOU WILL GET ONE FREE
PASSAGE EVERYWHERE,AND DONT LOOK BACK UNTILL THE LAST PINNACLES OF THE SNOWY MOUNTAINS ARE
BEHIND YOUR SIGHT.GO!WE WILL NEVER TAKE A LEAVE NOT A WORD LETS FORGET EACH OTHER.
THE DECURIO SAW THE LOVERS TILL THEY GONE ON TO THE OUT OF SIGHT;AND
CALLED THEM EVEN WHEN THEY DIDNT HEAR HIS WORDS NO LONGER.

HE ENTERED IN TO HIS HOUSE.THE PRAYER BOOK WAS LAID OPEN BECAUSE THE YOUNG GIRL HAD KEPT THE BOOK
OPENED.THE OPENED PAGE WAS DAMPED WITH HER TEARS.NUMA'S HAND TREMBLED AS HE KISSED THE VOLUME
FERVENTLY AND PLACED IT IN HIS BOSOM
THE NIGHT TIME HAD LAUNCHED THE ROUMIN LAID ON HIS WOLF-SKIN COUCH WHERE THE MAIDEN WHO HAD
THE GOLDEN HAIR AND HER LOVER HAD SLEPT ONCE BUT NOW SHE HAD STOLEN HIS REST,HE CANT ABLE TO SLEEP
AND HE GO ON WALKING AROUND HIS RUG.HE HAD AN UNWOUNTED FEELING AT HIS HEART.THAT IS NOT HAPPINESS
AND NOT SADNESS AND WENT TO A DEEP REVIVE.AT THAT MOMENT HE HEARD SOME SOUND AT AN ODD DISTANCE
AND AT THE SAME TIME THE TWO STAR SANK BENETH THE HORIZON.NUMA THOUGHT THAT THEY WERE HAPPY.

THE MOON HAD RISEN HIGH IN HEAVENS WHEN THE DECURIO WAS WAKEN FROM HIS SLEEP BY HEAVY FOOTSTEPS.
 Words originating from France will shorten the long "i": doctrine,
discipline, medicine, masculine.

However, the later-dating word, "genuine," also follows the short-i rule while "anserine" and "leonine"
do not. Two-syllable words usually have the stress on the second syllable, such as "divine" and
"supine."
Even though a few critics would scan Cassio's words as "The divine Desdemona," Shakespeare does
not use this stress pattern elsewhere.
An example of Shelley's text, illustrates this stress pattern: "She cannot know how well the supine
slaves/Of blind authority read the truth of things."
Other words showing the stress on the first syllable are "bovine,"
"canine," "equine."

To explain the last word, Shakespeared likely went to the theater in some type of equine capacity.

Since the first vowel sounds of "bovine" and "equine" are long, we should pronounce "canine"
with the same emphasis.
Multi-syllable words of more than two syllables stress the antepenultima but have a short vowel:
"libertine" and "adulterine." An exception is "uterine." In the presence of heavy consonant
stress on the penultima, the "i" is short: hence, "clandestine" and
"intestine."

A two-syllable example is "doctrine." A similar example of shortening the "i" can be found in
the words "morphine" and "strychnine" though you sometimes hear them pronounced with a long
"i."

("Morphine" is coined from "Morpheus," and "strychnine" is coined
from the Greek name of the plant known in Latin to botanists as "Withania
somnifera."

Stemp in -tudin: words such as "plenitude" and "solitude" display the shortened antepenultima.
Exceptions include "fortitude."
Stems in -tion: such words keep the suffix, which used to be disyllabic, for example, in Shakespeare's
Portia: "Before a friend of this description/Shall lose a hair through Bassanio's fault." 
These
words are under the "alias" rule, which says that the penultimate
vowel is long unless it is an "i": "nation," "accretion," "solution,"
"emotion." The "i" is short in words such as "petition," "munition,"
and "admonition." One modern exception is the military use of "ration."
 From the many cahiers (also known as codices), the three estates - clergy, kings
and the people, each compiled a single cahier to serve as a means to air their grievances and to
get answers for their problems. When this complicated system was finished, and the three residual
cahiers were given to the king, the States-general, the only government in France, was dissolved.
This is how we should do things in our country. But it matters little that he had
for anything While up and down the squirrel has played, and from the copse the linnet 'gan
to sing a coffee mate its sweet serenade Ah! little care indeed, he had seen the breasts of
Pallas and the naked wonder of the Queen.  But when the pastor called his goats disorderly whistling
pipe across the rocky road, and the fragment-beetle with its trumpet notes echoed through the
dark forest, and seemed a good omen of a storm, and the crane went
home late like a shadow, and large raindrops boring  
Knock fell
on the fig leaves until he rose, and from the gloomy forest went his
way familiar dark past and humid near the orchard, and reached the
final in a small pier, and called his shipmates , and took his seat
on the high stern, and pushed to the ground, and dropped the leaf
drip  
And went to the bay, and when nine suns Passed down the road
and staggered over gold, and nine pale moons had breathed their prayers
to the stars caste their confessors, or told their dearest secrets
of the moth will not be soft fly in the middle of the day, through
the foam of the foam and the increase  
Came a great owl with yellow
sulphurous eyes and landed on the ship, the wood creaked as if the
shipment of three ships, was hooked in the hold, and flapped its wings
and shrieked, and then darkness stole across the deep to cover was
the sword of Orion, the fear of Mars himself fled down the slope,
And the moon hid behind a tawny mask drifting cloud, and ocean's
marge Rose the red plume, the huge and horned helmet, the spear of
seven elbow, Targe shameless!

And dressed in bright and polished panoply Athena walked through the area of sea sick and trembling!

In view of the dull sailors' appearance loosened the storm seemed irregular rack, and his feet
just the foam that floats on hidden rocks, and marked as the rising waters beat against the ship's
roll, the pilot cried the young helmsman at the stern to luff to windward side
But he, the adulterer recklessness, a defiler ones of the great mysteries, an idolater ardent
love, implacable eyes when he saw the great joy and laughed loudly shouting 'Vengo' jumped from
the stern high in the cold and churning foam.
Then fell from heaven a great shining star, a dancer from the left around the galaxy and back
to Athens in his car crash in all the pride of divinity Pale Pallas
swept avenge loud clank and steel, and increased low gurgling bubbles
where your child lover sank.

And the mast shuddered as the gaunt owl flew With mocking cries of anger after the Queen, and
the old pilot ordered the crew to hoist the mainsail trembling, and
told how he had seen near the stern a dim and giant form , and the
swallow dive as a sturdy boat dashed through the storm.

And no one dared to speak of Charmides Deeming that something bad had done, and when they reached
the narrow symplegades your kitchen They stranded on the shore, and tried the door Line of the city
in a hurry, and the market showed photo coffee and ceramics.
II.
But some good Triton-god had Ruth, and the naked boy drowned body back to the Greek land, and
mermaids combed his wet and dripping hair and smoothed his brow,
and dropped his hand squeezing; Some brought sweet spices from far
away Arabia, and others ordered the happy sing their soft lullaby.

And as he approached his home in ancient Athens, a mighty wave rose suddenly on whose back lay congealed
oily foam in some strange fantasy diapers, and with him the glassy chest sweep the earth as a white
horse hair in a happy search!
 

The dyed anno Dom 1630. "Ibid. (Monmouthshire), p. 54.
From these passages we see that the Christian name was Walter Parsons, not William, as described
by Harwood.
William Evans was the first name, the successor to Parsons. The bas-relief of the same author
is William Evans and Jeffrey Hudson, his diminutive servant colleagues.
Is at the entrance to Bull Head Court, Newgate Street, not "a penal colony in a friendly," which
is absurd.

On the stone these words are cut: "Bring the King, and the dwarf, with the date 1660.
This framework of interest rate affected the Pennant.
There is a picture for the giant Queen Elizabeth at Hampton Court, but I am not aware that any
portrait of Parsons is preserved in the royal collections.
EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

* * * * * {315}
EISELL AND WORMWOOD WINE.
(Vol. ii., p. 249.)
If friends Pepys actually drank two liters of wine he gave them absinthe
has, as Lord Braybrooke implies, more acceptable than propoma were
in use at the time of Shakespeare.

I was furnished with a friend distinguishes the following among other points, in agreement with
my explanation of Eisele:
"I found a better recipe to make wine with wormwood than the old Langham in his garden of Health,
and as he directs its use should be limited to"

Streiner a little spoon, and drink a beer with the project or wine,
"I think it must have been so horribly bad taste, than to drink, like
Hamlet Laertes challenged to do was so strong argumentum ad stomachum
a crocodile to digest, although a slice appetised of bread. " 
It
'is evident, then, that small doses, but this drug was once nauseously
bitter, and do a major project, drinking more than the amount "would
be the ultimate demonstration of the passage through love enough,
you might think that it is satisfied even Hamlet. " 

Albert Magnus and Thomas Aquinas provided some items to men such as Hillel of Verona (in the
13th Century) and Don Isaac Abarbanel (in the 15th Century).

Maimonides was limited to Aristotelian expositions by Alfarbi and
Avicenna. 

He was Juan, the first alcalde of the village and was an Indian.

Our operation was carefully explained to our subjects, describing in detail the sensations and
emotions connected and hoped that they were thorough.

Juan began with good courage, but we wanted to encourage him and so told a young fellow sitting
nearby, who could comprehend Spanish some encouraging words which
we said to him.

But we were surprised to see our subjects’ confidence turn to terror even as the translation
was going on. While we attempted the first mould, he started sobbing, crying like a child;
but as we proceeded to make the face mould he showed extreme terror and sorrow, tears flowing
from his eyes, sobbing, crying aloud and we heard his heart beat pounding against his chest.
While our matter was not taken so hard by any subject, the cause
of all this trouble came to our knowledge.

Since our interpreter had been a joker, he had said discouraging remarks such as , "Now you’ll
die; you’ll not be able to breathe any more and be dead and buried
by to-morrow; your poor widow will no doubt feel badly, but probably
she will find another partner" while actually we were saying encouraging
words.

There was always this possibility of such misinterpretations, but this was the time we were
played false by our interpreter.

We found there was no progress made by Raman, after returning from measuring the women. Three
subjects had fled after looking at Juan’s experience and we spent
two hours hunting and bringing them back, with Juan’s help.

Having some previous experience in the operation, he had a feeling that it might be helpful
to have companions in misery. At last we left for Tumbala, with six cargadors, for the moulds,
instruments and for the remaining plaster, since we had no pack-animals at 4.30. Five were
to reach Tumbala early the next morning, and the sixth, a tiny old man, came along with us,
who had already helped us in hunting the women for carrying the instruments.

He carried the burden happily in spite of being so small to our wonder, along the road which
was purely uphill. We soon came across the tropical forest of the Chinantla and the land of
the Mixes, with begonias, tree-ferns, bromelias, and orchids, which had bits of roads, with deep
pits, slippery stones and irregular masses of limestone. Since we reached Tumbala after dark,
it was no good since the mists were dense, though the moon was there. we found the once largest of
the Chol towns with a worthless and nerveless agente at 6.45, where we planned to finish maximum
of our works. But fortunately we stopped at Hidalgo, since the contract labor system had completely
ruined Tumabla, which has sent its men to fincas.

 Furthermore, we have his pitious
widow bereft of her children, and not having so much as a farthing to purchase potatoes with--cursed
be the eye that would not yield a tear to his remembrance, and unfeeling be the heart that would
deny comfort to his widow!" It was here that poor Barney could continue no longer contain himself,
and having wrapped up the family history, wept unrestrainedly. It was a queer mix of the absurd
and the disconsolate; but spoken with such guileless candor and obvious
genuine emotion, that I would have challenged the most~27~~fugacious
to have not been affected by the words of the eulogist.

 

(They get their wraps out)

Hostess (turning to Poor Relative) Maria, you must locate the clothes-horse.
Look in the laundry room, or-on second thought, in the cellar. Continue
looking until you locate it. (Turning to Briggs) All the things you
requested are here that I could locate. 

His education at one of the quaker seminaries was, obviously, plain and limited. In fact, it was restricted
to useful and necessary areas of study. However, his father was not a man of simple intelligence
or nature. He read often, especially on the subject of slavery's abolishment. Although he
had proved several times that he could write quite well, he was, in all likelihood, not a dedicated
author. It is very doubtful to us that he ever even considered writing books as a hobby. I
myself once asked him about it.

His answer was vague and distracted.

His collection of books were meager at best. When they went on school vacations, many books
and texts were bought or otherwise acquired for his son to satiate is passion for reading. A tribute
in memory of Mr. Barton's father will be found in his Napoleon and
other Poems. He said her not to enter inside until he call her and also she can stand
close to the door so she can hear everything. After saying this he tapped the door and entered
inside closing the door slowly so that the woman can get a glimpse of the father and boy and a
motherly affection showed in her eyes. The priest blessed the house and gently he stepped
forward.

Seeing him the father became nervous and he wished the priest in
French with a poor accent as he had learned French from his wife and
he himself is an Englishman.

The priest looked at the lighted candles on the little shrine and saw the painful sight of
the man.

He asked the man about his wife and child The poor man showed the child in the bed and said
he is ill.  Then the priest felt the child's pulse and examined the boy and softly asked the
man Where is his wife.The man answered she was not there . Then he asked the man when did
she left him. He said four weeks ago. Then the priest said that was september and this is october
winter Instead of educating himself by reading books, as others
would have done, Thomas took a nap to rest. Where a different man might have worried feverishly
over the future, Thomas, instead, dreamed in peace of the past. I know you are generous and
noble so I dare to ask for your forgiveness and your sympathy.
Violet
When Ernest was done reading, as he absorbed the words he had read, Harry burst into the room.
Ernest did not look up at first. He figured he would make his brother's
sorrow even worse. It was forced from us as the only proper answer to the uncertainty revived
in our own day on the versification of Chaucer, his plentiful, and, most likely, dreary grammatical
display of this once active metrical element.

We may just plainly conclude that our forefathers and their speech were rude. Yet, we find from
this massive amount of grammatical treat, which has been retained even after invasion by the native
language and applied methodically in the work of the renowned poet, a feeling of language and a
genuine mark of art. The most genial and respect of a refined posterity is claimed by this aspect
to their rustic, but somewhat refined, heroic ancestors. INDEX TO VOL. LVII.  About a bonnet,
242. "One eye was wider
than the other--her head had corners--she carried her chin in!" All help is mutual, the statement
implied. (Abstrusely, the flummoxed young man noted.) A woman cannot grow through her own efforts;
she grows as her husband grows.
Such was not the belief of John Stuart Mill. He wished dearly for this tiring day to end so he
could call upon his friend's wife for an explanation of why she felt all help was mutual. These
statements she'd been uttering lately were perplexing and distressing
to them both.

Finally, evening drew near and Mr. Mill was greeted by the Taylors, just finishing their tea,
who smiled eagerly at their dear friend as he sat down to join them. In Western Europe, no other country but Italy has native Jews in what are colloquially
called "ghettoes." Despite their freedom, they are still generally of a lower class than the
surrounding non-Jewish.
 In the recurrent periods of conscious thought going through the list
of things I know for a fact I have - rheumatic fever, sciatica, lumbago,
toothache, neuritis, neuralgia, bronchitis, laryngitis, tonsillitis,
gastritis, colds of various types, heart disease and inflammation
(or, possibly, congestion) of the lungs.

I think a little more today, if my nurse left me alone and do not care to continue with its
"Just drink this." Annoy Women! Why not get off the ground? What is the use of my dirty swallow
the medicine man when he does not know what's wrong with me?
I hate everyone and everything, especially the quilt quilts, which rises in slow waves in front
of my eyes and threatens to engulf me. When in a paroxysm of rage I suddenly threw it into the
ground, is still swollen, and seems to read to me.
There is something sinister and German fat and about quilt.

Never noticed before. Two hundred German Eider-low!
The firelight flickers eerily through the room and I try to count the shadows.
But before I know the answer - HUNDRED.
I drift into a nightmare of two hundred cabbages hard I'm trying to plant in my new contract,
in a hard fate forced me to dig and dig and dig, and as a natural consequence, also of pain
and pain and ACHE .
PHASE II.
I can stand with help from the bed post and totter weakly to a chair by the fire, where I am in
a robe and mourn.

Why? I could not say, except that it seems fit and the right thing to do.
I'm still of the opinion that I am not long for this world, and my favorite occupation at present
is by counting the number of wreaths that could rightly expect to have sent to my funeral.  
Do
not tell my nurse, who immediately try to "cheer" to talk about me
or give me a magazine in sight.

And I would have preferred to have wreaths.

The Smiths, probably would not be able to afford one ....  
My
thoughts are distracted by the sudden appearance of a small meal.

I start to get interested in these small meals, which are of frequent occurrence in such a way
that I am to mourn again, this time in the thinking of the extra costs I'm doing.
And all for nothing. Why not save the money for crowns?
The doctor comes while I'm swallowing my egg, miserably but with a particular taste, and I dry
my eyes as quickly as I hear him jumping down the stairs.
"Hello," he said aloud before he is by the door, how are we today, eh?
From sit up and take notice? I think we will change the medicine. "
"I think," I remark, with resignation, "it will be better for someone to dig a hole and bury
me."

"Jolly good idea," he agrees heartily. "In fact, why not do for us? Please Germans as well.
But you can not do, you know - there is no shortage of gravediggers. "
Heartless brute!
* * * * *

* * * * *

"In determining the five days potatoless hope is entertained that the supplies, which are the
odor, leaving people poorer than they need." - Daily Chronicle.
This explains the observation of Irish week protested that it was not proved yet, "the smell
of a potato."
* * * * *
"It will take years to clean the Aegean stables." - Civil and Military Gazette.
However, M. VENEZELOS has made a good start with Samos, Lemnos and several other Osses.
* * * * *
In the report of a ban Peebles: -  
"A nice addition, and most enjoyable
was a series of lantern slides depicting the ravages of the Huns in
Belgium." - Peebleshire advertiser.

Remains "Peebles for pleasure" at any price.
* * * * *  
* * * * *  
Hindenburg Line.  
In our earnest effort
to discover exactly where impregnable barrier is likely to find that
we have compiled the following references to it in the German press
in the coming months: -  
... Our troops, according to the plan,
are operating east of the Cordillera de Vimy, where the fighting is
taking the right direction for us. We have succeeded in restoring
a voluntary elasticity condition prior to the occupation of the famous
Hindenburg line, which includes Douai, San Quentin and La Fere.
... Our actions in the rear, east of SanQuentin are being developed
in accordance with our dreams, our troops, after his brief respite
from the call Wotan line, showing its capability in a fast-moving
war. The British are questioning puzzled by the resurgence of fluency
in the front. 

Even though my head is racing with thoughts that I am unable to take care of myself, I would
rather approach this endeavor on my own. Wait here, and we will write
to you. If you don't recieve our messages, Harry will come for you.
Do what is right, and treat yourself well. Am I always going to be like this? Will I always
doubt your faithfulness? I will unless you change me and make me new. If that is the only way,
God, change me, destroy my hard heart so that I won't be somebody who ruins your plans.
Please, father, pray fervently that we can be completly covered in
Christ's blood because that will make us mighty and loyal. There is a possibility of the pipies which are
laid under ground are getb affected by the Roots of big Trees.Thr Roots may accidentally get
into the pipes and grow untill the pipe end and produce lots of inconvinience
leading to relaying of pipes.

 "The Angel's
spire," is the fact that's been poised upon its summit as an angel with guilt and holding
across a cross. Its height is been 59 feet above the roof of the church. The height of the church
itself is 486 feet in length, The vaulting of the roof is 125 feet.

The height of the tower has been 272 feet.The towers are 272 feet high.The church is built
in the form of a cross. But the transept is very close to the apse. The choir being too confined
for ceremonmies,were some royal coronations usually takes place. It has beeen extended westward
across the transept to take up three bays of the nave. There are about seven chapels at the
east of the church But none are found in the naves.
 

The issues I faced soon overtook my mind, and I went on with ignorance
through a view, that, under different circumstances, would have captured
my mind completely.

All the stories I had read of accidents in these eternal plains, rushed to my mind vividly, not as
silly tales, but as truths validated by authentic sources, people to warn me, before I arrived
in Texas, against traipsing into the wilderness without directional
help.

 About half of them have been domiciled, with house and
other fixed property, from five to ten years and more. They own four-fifths of the total wealth
invested in the State. The preponderance is not only in numbers and wealth, but also in smarts
and in contributing at least four-fifths of the all State revenues. Is it prudent or right to
ignore such interests and such a majority from representation?
Could a minority of one-fifth be said to constitute a menace to the status or to the conservative
interests of State?
Do Uitlanders not deserve equal recognition with the other taxpayers in respect to constitutional
interest in the land, seeing that the former supplied all the skill to explore and exploit
the mine wealth, all at their risk, and without which it would all have remained hidden and the
country continued out of the action and poor?
Though 20% would be so small a minority, it would at least have afforded the constitutional
method of declaring the wishes of Uitlanders.

The measure could also have been expected to open up the way towards
reconciling relations between the English and Boer races (beginning
in the Transvaal) where it was hoped that the citizens would be gained
over as friends, and so to stand cut off from the Afrikaner Bond.

These were the supreme objects for peaceful progress and not for annexation and as such, solemn
assurances from highest quarters were repeatedly given that no designs existed against the
integrity of the Republic, that nothing unfriendly lurked behind the franchise demand, but
that necessity dictated it for general good and the preservation of peace. Nor were other diplomatic
means left unemployed to ensure the acceptance of the franchise reform which meant In addition
to firmness of attitude and a display of actual force, most of the
other Powers, including the USA, were lured into adding their weight
of persuasion in urging upon the Transvaal the adoption of the measures
demanded by England for correcting the existing trouble.

It may be agrued that the display of force in sending the 1st group of troops would have afforded
grounds for exasperation, and be construed by the Transvaal as a menace and actual hostility, tending
to precipitate a conflict which it was so earnestly intended to avoid.

To this may be replied that ,1st, the 20,000 men sent in August were readily viewed as placing
the as of yet undermanned Colonial garrisons upon an appropriate peace effective only.2nd, The
army corps of 50,000 men despatched in September.This was felt as
an intended restraint against "Bond" projects, to enforce the observance
of any agreement which the Transvaal might for the nonce assent to,
and above all it was tending, unless at once opposed by the Bond,
to weaken its ranks by producing hesitation and ultimate defection
from that body.

3rd,The ultimatum of 9th October was the outcome; and England, though not ready, could not possibly
accept it otherwise than as a wilful challenge to war.

The success of Mr. Chamberlain's diplomacy to prevent war depended upon the very slender prospects
that the Transvaal Government might to finally to break with the
Afrikaner Bond along with its own government --a forlorn hope indeed,
considering the perfection which that formidable organization had
reached.

Its cherished objects were not meant to be abandoned. The advice of "Bond" leaders prevailed
and War was declared.  It is true the Transvaal had made a show of negotiations to British
and foreign pressure. This first took the shape of an offer of a seven years' franchise, and then
one of five years, exceeding even Mr. Milner's demands as to the number of Uitlander representation.
That of seven years was so fenced in with worthless rules and conditions that it had for those
reasons to be rejected; whilst that at five years was coupled with
the equally unacceptable conditions that the claim of govenment should
be renounced, and that in all other respects the Transvaal should
be recognised as absolutely independent by the terms of the Sand River
Convention of 1852.

 

He despised Philip, but he despised still more Philip the usurper who had brought shame to
the escutcheon of Bercy. There was also at the job another and deeper design to be shown in good
time. Philip had retired from the English navy, and went back to his duchy of Bercy. Here
he embraced the struggle with the Austrians against the French. Accepted with passion by the
people, who as yet knew little or nothing of the doings in the Cohue Royale, he now led the
army and proved himself in the field as he had been at sea.

Of these things Detricand knew, and knew also that the lines were closing in round the duchy;
that one day soon Bonaparte would come forth and smother the little army and its Austrian allies.
The game then would be another step nearer the end. He visited the Courts of Prussia, Russia,
Spain, Italy, and Austria, and presented before them his claims to the duchy, urging an insistence
on its neutrality, and a trial of his cause against Philip.

With unmitigating passion, he toiled towards his end, the way made easier by tales told of his
prowess in the Vendee. He had offers to do battles in foreign armies, but opted not. Gossip of
the Courts said that there was some strange romance behind this tireless pursuit of an inheritance,
but he paid no heed. If at last there crept over Europe wonderful tales of Detricand's past life
in Jersey, of the real Duchesse de Bercy, and of the new Prince of
Vaufontaine, Detricand did not pretend to hear them; and the Comtesse
Chantavoine had disappeared from public knowledge.

The few who guessed his romance were puzzled to understand his cause:
for if he dispossessed Philip, Guida must also be dispossessed.

This, certainly, was not lover-like or friendly.
But Detricand was not to be denied; his mind and purpose were clear. Guida should come to no injury
through him--Guida who, as they left the Cohue Royale that day of
days, had turned on him a look of heavenly trust and gratitude; who,
in the midst of her own great happenings, found time to tell him by
a word how well she knew he had kept his promise to her, even beyond
belief.

Justice for her was now the supreme and immediate object of his life. There were others ready also
to care for France, to fight for her, to die for her, to struggle
towards the hour when the King should come to his own; but there was
only one man in the world who could achieve Guida's full justification,
and that was himself, Detricand of Vaufontaine.

He was more than happy to turn to the Chevalier's letters from Jersey. It was from Chevalier's
himself, he had learned the whole course of Guida's life during the four years of his absence
from the island. It was the Chevalier who drew for him pictures of Guida in her new home, none
other than the house of Elie Mattingley, which the Royal Court having
confiscated now handed over to her as an act of homage.

The little world of Jersey no longer pointed the finger of scorn
at Guida Landresse de Landresse, but bent the knee to Princess Guida
d'Avranche.

Detricand wrote many letters to the Chevalier, and they with their
entertainings allusions were read aloud to Guida--all except the one
about Philip.

Writing of himself to the Chevalier on one occasion, he laid bare with a merciless honesty his
nature and his career. Concerning neither had he any illusions.
"I do not mistake myself, Chevalier " [he wrote], " nor these late doings of mine. What credit shall
I take to myself for coming to place and some little fame?"

 

In the central crush the enemy. [12] 26. In the stern of the ship crush the enemy. [12] 27.
In the crush enemy vehicles. [12] 28. To create a screen to the front on the bearings of the
Admiral. [13] 29. For the race to form in front of or following the front line at a distance
of one or two miles'. [14]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Manual of war used by Rodney enhancements to the famous battle in 1782 was missing, which
is next only to the extent that pieces of the manual can be determined
from the references to them in his signal book.

It should be noted that until now was used in the Seven Years' War has been completely rewritten
in a more easily understood.

[2] Cf. Boscawen's No. 15 and 16.

[3] According to Sir Chas.

H. Knowles, the formation of regular sailing at that time to large fleet squadrons are three
parallel, each joined at the bow and quarter line to the right and left of the flag. He said
it was his father's treatise on the tactic that was introduced by Howe to return to the method
Hoste, and adopted the establishment of the squadron followed the front line. This, he added,
Howe used for the first time when it sailed to relieve Gibraltar in 1782. Since then the service
rules, and books the next signal contains the signal to form a battle line of two, three, and
six columns of each sail. Knowles consider this as a major reform which created modern tactics.
See Observations on Tactics, 1830.

[4] Cf. Boscawen's No. 4. [5]
This may be a sailing manual, various sets of additional manuals are
not distinguished in the signal book.

[6] This article may have been
the result of the Hawke's beat L'Etenduère in 1747, when he chased
and was directly involved as a manual to directs with great success.

[7]
Cf. Boscawen's No. 9 and 10. 

[8] This seems to be in accordance
with Article XXI of the Supplement of the Manual is used to war in
1780, where his Rodney wrote in his report on the events of April
17 that year. [9] Cf. Boscawen's No. 3. 

there was some officer who already made peace with charles by taking swear of their services.many
who kept the thick bond to hazlerig secretly and the opposite praty
to lambert. Let’s get together
to make it louder

I and others resolved to sing with correct harmony, and with rather a louder tone than they might do
if only an ordinary singer in the worship of the day as a congregational
attendant and that the means of drawing forth the universal voices
of congregations is by a number.

It is a number between four and twelve, being approved by the people in charge of the clergyman or
minister.

In a few months, these four or more voices would have the effect of effecting a great improvement
in the way the congregation at large sings; but in this process the main purpose of such an
appointment must not be left out. He
fumbled with his wallet as his two so called friends hamper him from slipping it into his
jacket pocket. He quickly made the decision to exit when he felt a small tap behind him. He looked
over his shoulder that was just brushed only to see the Footman. The footman quickly informed
him that somebody wanted to have a chat with him. Who he asked? Mademoiselle
de Varenne the footman replied. It
is possible Brwning would say, as his wife iterated earlier, "I never
confused pleasure as the spark of poetry, nor free time for the poet's
hour;" as obviously he said himself in a very old letter:"I never
alluded to present such prose as a substitute for a cigar and a dominoes
game to an inactive man."

He has not created anything resembling a command for the reader's
individual faculties, not readers seem to suppose.

 

One day Mochuda was keeping his herd beside the river. Suddenly, he heard the bishop and his clerics
pass by, chanting psalms as they went along. The boy was touched by the Spirit of God and
he left his pigs and followed the procession as far as the monastery called Tuaim (Druim Fertain)
(into which the clerics entered). Mochuda concealed himself when the clercis sat down to eat.
At the same time, Maoltuile noticed the boy's absence and got worried about him. A lot of messengers
were sent to search the boy. Finally, the boy was found by one of the messengers in the shadow
of the doorway of the bishop's house. These together with the Christian dogmas, undoubtedly, hard scientific evidence
of evolution (you can only hit doelrago dogmas, but it is pretty), photography, and to configure
the entire rationale of the plan, they must appear at first glance
to make sure to participate in their destruction of the superstructure
is complete.

But the question whether, in the end, they were destroyed on the net can be an agnostic. That
is, my principles or to the place where the negative aspects of turning
the other does not apply.

First, as Adam and Eve, observed, in the first place, long before
Darwin's Paradise in the story as an allegory of man recognized by
thoughtful theologians regards.

In fact, to read eyes prejudice, the first chapters of Genesis should
not be always seen from the record high was supposed to be: not a
history of ever was wrong, but on preconceived ideas about the problem
of inspiration.

However, preconceived ideas that should be in a pure agnostics; I have now estimated that, not only
is it historic because it was proven to be filed against inspiration
- and this even though we can not see what the allegorical.

For it inspired raeteoyo, certainly in the past had good service,
so as to be present, but not an allegory about God's plan to award
a literal, provides a starting point.

The nature of religion in public, compared with the evidence.
The evolution of organic form, it is often their special production, with all the facts of adaptation,
which consists of evidence, where in both cases, the design was to provide good evidence. But
here's the problem it is a very overlooked issue is that I beg of
you.

The problem, as the cause of their adaptation of the design is sufficient evidence these facts
do rather than what is it? But if it is accepted, it turned out, the fact that natural causes
adaptive evolution under the hypothesis of a different nature in the same category as all the
facts and more about the design can be based on the fact that no longer belongs to the special factors
must be Nature of any other person. I like all the other facts of adaptation in fact, only
when used as an argument to design the all-natural causes is one of the mental character: some assumptions
that just anywhere, but it is estimated that the design of a funny question. Or, in other words,
they are due to natural causes doeeotgie adapt the truth, and then design, rather than using the
best evidence available, it is already due to the ... as a natural
occurrence, they are home because of the imaginative designs.

Natural religion is the religion is similar to the public. I like playing one of the two holy,
both because so long as it is ready to lead us, there is ample evidence in the design, the only
question it will stimulate a serious interest. In other words, as regards both, ought to be
the attitude of pure reason, pure agnostic. (Observed, but this recognition is a more general
inability of the teleology, or design in nature, sure, of all ages, all the more pointed explicitly
recognized by Christ, and after proving Darwin. I can refer to Pascal at this point In particular
[76], and many other writers.) This is noticeable between the natural and the other non-system,
two raetdoeneun have emanated from the same author - so much so that all development is of
how to ID.

In fact, both crash land on the design of the hypothesis, it follows that the two hypotheses,
all of the institutions only by immediate intuition can see - namely, the human is a reasonable complement
to arrest the other modes. Here again, we note the analogy. And if a guy like), it is their
duty to nature of God's revelation, when the (still present our hypothesis
that 'God, as the search of his spiritual vision exercise is hypothetical
the highest truth (the magazine supplements modes have, and they diligently
'), the subjective nature of God himself in Revelation and other evidence
that one of the other - so his four euros yielding additional evidence
that would corroborate his pursuit to find is the rewarder.

It's a natural teleology of Revelation, and that men are spiritually minded mutual assured logically
complement each other

.
 As with prior memorials,
a few problems were addressed, but this was offset by of even worse acts in other ways. Those
asking for assitance found themselves ignored and defeated. It should be necessary to give reasons to lay down
the law instead of relying on astute singular dogmatism. However, when I turn to my friendly censor,
I find assertions being made outside the context of argument. This, to my humble understanding,
is of much nearer in kind to dogmatism than the sin I am being charged with.
Based on his disdain of being "puzzled on so plain a subject," your correspondent has a misunderstanding
of the uses of etymology. I noticed that once rubber was constantly exposed to sunlight it became
whiter and the balloon started to lose its strength. I started to use a mercury gauge again.
I also decided, as a precaution, to put cotton flannel over my pad to protect it from the light
and anything else that might harm the material. (The pad is on the roof of the Institute,
so it experiences all kinds of weather.) I covered my materials with a rubber b;anket as well,
just for a bit of extra protection from the rain and snow.

So far for the last year, this has worked perfectly. The flat rubber
gauge is both inexpensive and covenient, so I am trying to have a
black cloth cover one. The Romans
did not feel confident that Africa was a recruiting ground even though the Numidians were friendly.
The Italians were more cost-efficient. They were more united and tactical. This would be advantageous
against the African calvary. The Italians and the Latins were allied. They had sent their
troopers to Africa. At the port of Utica, or at some harbour on the west, Marius, the commander
had planned his campaign over winter and had the chance to give notice of his present location
to Lucius Cornelius Sulla, the leader of the auxiliary force.

Sulla had fought in Italy with the calvary which he then led into camp the entire first year
of his quaestorship. Traditionally, the quaestor was intrinsically close to his commander. He
trusted him with the finances, relations, decision-making, and even at war. The general or
commander could dismiss the quaestor if he was found to be incapable.

The quaestor was the official who, besides the general, the only man in the province holding
the position of a magistrate. He was in titular rank higher even than the oldest and most distinguished
legates. The arrival of a new quaestor meant the possibility of either
helping or hindering a campaign.

When Marius heard Sulla was arriving, he was doubtful of his caliber. It was without doubt,
the new lieutenant was handsome.

He had clear blue eyes and fair, delicate skin with a tinge of red over his cheeks. However, he
had no military experience. He had come from a fallen patrician family. Rumours had it that
he had liked to travel and roam in the past.

He seemed destined to carry on his family tradition of being an indolent and unaspiring man.
The title of the praetorship bestowed on him had made him content.

Even Sulla's father did not have such an honour although the renewal of this title seemed distant.
The elder son of the family had the present title of the consulship. He had lived in rented
rooms with little means. His one passion for acting was spurred on by his cultured taste. He was
a sensuous young man who had the gift of winning over the love of
women.

His father had remarried quite a rich lady. His elder son soon got the love of his step-mother.
He later went on to inherit her fortunes after her death. His fortune was later increased through
another woman's legacy.
 Arrest, if in Cincinnati, William Wood, a friend of Jackson. Cargo as an accomplice.
About 20 years old, 5 feet 11 inches, blond hair, face taut, rather thin, weighs 165 pounds.
We're going from here to South Bend after Wood to leave here to there.

CRIM McDermott and Plummer. "
Immediately after receiving the telegram Col. Deitsch Witte detailed Detectives, Bulmer and
Jackson to take care of Jackson. It was learned that stayed at the house of Mrs. McNevin,
at 222 West Ninth, next to the Opera House Robinson.

Detective Jackson was stationed at home and Witte and Bulmer in front of the room.
Just when it seemed he had found his game for the fact that the officers
were after him and had gone to unknown places was captured.

It was after nine o'clock, when most of the last ray of hope had died
out of the breasts officers, the Chief of Police Deitsch received
the news that Jackson had been seen at the Palace Hotel.

The chief began and I met a man answering description of Jackson.

He informed the detectives of reality, the individual was last seen and was walking slowly along
Ninth Street, and when he reached 222 he looked up at the windows.

He walked slowly to Plum Street and stopped and looked back toward
the house.

Then hurried north on Plum Street to the Court. When the route was part of the square Bulmer
detective approached him, saying: "Your name is Jackson, right?"
He turned completely pale and trembling like an aspen, and as the detective continued, "I love you"
he exclaimed, "My God, what is this?" 
At the same time, there
was the beginning of the Mayor's Office. Was there an eerie noise when he was writing it? In a short while, there in the waters
of Lerici Shelley was drowning and he did not know to swim. This had a very cruel effect on
us which was bothering us over time (this sense got strong and did not wade away by the lightness
of verse and its lethal gratification) -- announcing its coming through the victim himself,
the end upon which his hair is floating along the coasts of Campania.
He met with the end which he himself predicted, and Spezzia included another name from Marcelli
who grieves much; Venetian glasses overflowed with foam and burst before the poison of life
ascended to its top.
Though Shelley was a singer by his temperament, this trait of his nature, made him as the poet of
Prometheus Unbound. With this he became the mythological poet in its very meaning of the utterance.
Mythological poetry gained their importance in trusting people and
this child-like ingenious quality made him associate with people of
his nature.

Shelley’s poetry also had the Nature Myths which were popularly accepted as the basis of all mythology.
The elements of Nature such as the gossiping lark which speaks of heaven, the winds that remove
the grey from the beards of clouds, the clouds that had risen from the sea’s wide nostril, are
incarnated and reincarnated in his metaphors and permeated into his descriptions.
In this way, he can be considered very much as a Nature poet, but unlike the Worsdworthian implication
of Nature, he looked at it from a different angle.

The exacting of the undeviating elucidation of Nature is welcomed by Wordsworthians; Nature should
be considered dear to the poet like a mistress, and not as a servant. But Shelley did not
consider Nature in that connotation.
 Hadís-i-Hasan.

The narrators of this category are not of such good leadership as those of the prior with regard
to one or pair qualities; but these Traditions must be received as of identical leadership
as regards any practical use.[65] It is merely as a substance of classification that they status
second.
In attachment to these titles, there are a figure of other scientific terms which have regard
to the physical personality of the narrators, the Isnád, and other
points. A minority may be mentioned. 
(1). 

For the Chorus-Singers be in no way elected by Suffrage by all, but hir’d by the suitable
Officer who was by the side of the Expence of the Chorus: in addition to the Furnishers of
the Chorus have never any Table, or Stipend, permitted them, towards their accusation. In the
direction of what Purpose subsequently is this Sentence, which be supposed to be a Deduction
from the Premises, and yet is nothing, brought in? Or how comes the interpretation to be found
upon what was not the Fact? The Mistake manifestly arises from a careless Transposition made
in the Text: Let the two Greek Words, which I have notable by Capitals, only change Places, and
we recover what Platonius intended to infer: “That the [A] Furnishers of Chorus’s being no
longer selected by Suffrage, and the [B] Chorus-Singers having no
condition made for them, Chorus’s were abolished, and the Subjects
of comedy altered.”  [Annotation A: Χορηγῶν.] [Annotation
B: Χορευτῶν.]  II.

There is an additional more egregious Error at a standstill subsisting in this instructive
Fragment, which has likewise escaped the Notice of the educated. The Author is saying, that, in the
old funny side, the Masks were made so nearly to look like the personnel to be satirized, that
before the artist spoke a Word, it was known whom he was to personate.

But, in the New Comedy, when Athens was conquered by the Macedonians, and the Poets were fearful
lest their Masks should be construed to resemble any of their New senate, they formed them so
extraordinarily as only to move Laughter; ὁρῶμεν γοῦν (says He) τὰς ὀφρῦς
ἐν τοῖς προσώποις τῆς Μενάνδρου κωμῳδίας ὁποίας
ἔχει, καὶ ὅπως ἐξεστραμμένον τὸ ΣΩΜΑ. καὶ οὐδε κατὰ
ἀνθρώπων φύσιν.
 Most astronomers are unwilling to
accept that the creation of the universe is a result of an accident. This is possibly due to the
fact that we believe that there is a pattern of regularity and order in the entire cosmos,
due to some hints that science provides us. There were thousands of cavalry in the field, and the fight, dubbed
"exceeding wild and impressive," last from 9 AM to 5 PM.

The British were most impressive in display; the people carrying guns with which they were well
acquainted. Only but an engine, the "brass galloper" was viewd with great respect, and its
rocket a fantastic novelty. Dusk finally came, and at the king's
command, rocket fire began and created quite the spectacle.

Everyone was amazed and frightened. People fell to the ground, and the horses and mules broke
free from their leashes. The Galla tribes attributed the rocket phenomenon to "strong medicines,"
and stated that the British, whom they referred to as "Gyptzis," had control over the comets that
crash to Earth. There was no other option for the tribe than to surrender to the British king.

Three times in a year, the king sent his military on a mission into nearby lands, as he wished
to establish embassies in these locations. The militia accepted the offer, as it was the best
way to see the country. In reality, they had no intention of fully participating in the marauding
expedition, we cannot judge their silence in going along with the plan. They had not the authority
to help out the king of Shoa in his attack on his neighbors, moreso
than assisting the king's neighbors' attacks on the king.

The march was odd, with an air of pretention, led by someone holding the Holy Bible under a scarlet
drape, atop of a donkey. The belief was that having the "ark of the cathedral of St. Michael"
would ensure victory for them. The king, along with his personal guards, was followed by a extremely
long line parade of women, cooks, and horsemen, all of whom were being protected by troops.
It was an impressive sight! The march lasted for 15 miles, after which the lady cooks halted in
a beautiful, quiet valley. Evidentally, the march had come to an end that day, and the parade
made preparations for the night. 

Trying to be creative listeners and asked questions to the group that would make them want to share
their personal experiences because we felt it to be necessary.
"We felt pretty relaxed. We tried to tune into the needs of each couple.We were hoping we didn't
say too much."
"We felt we were equal participants with the other people and pushers of a process that was well
started with honest conversation.Agenda-building was done several times.We were trying to make
a feeling where defensiveness would be replaces with a tolerable
acceptance.We wanted trust to grow so we could hear each other and
learn."

UNFELT NEED WAS A PROBLEM
"Marriage enrichment retreats meet an unfilled need.People don't feel
too sure they need it.If you think your marriage is good you don't
feel the need to spend a weekend to make it even better.To get the
best from this retreat you need a person to talk who is sensible and
knows what's going on."

Some thoughts were considered as to why our program would be met with some resistance.It takes
problems to make married people seek help.Sometimes that help may come to late.Or sometimes
married couples are aware that the relationship falls short in some areas.It can take a strong
push to get these couples to enroll in a retreat. 
Why the resistance
in this day and age is commonly known as the "generation gap." Initially
it was quite difficult.

But, in time, James and I became more experienced at the chores Mrs. Sweedle required and were
capable of finishing them (although without a moment to spare). However, there was one tough
time when we were rushing to complete the cleaning and Mrs. Sweedle’s brother got very upset
with us. That was really a bummer! That is a lute, so I think that the lady knows how to play one. If you can
persuade her to play a single tune I'll leave satisfied, because
I do love the lute. The authorities were close to sending him to be imprisoned, when Edie Ochiltree,
who in the past was an unsavory sort involved in many schemes, asked whether he could drive
to Tannanburgh. He insisted he definitely would come bearing good news from the post office
located there. 

161 states that if a soldier has served in an outstanding manner for a minimum of three continuous
years in any corps of regular forces (s)he may not be tried/punished for desertion which has occurred
prior to the start of those 3 years. Desertion from the regular forces may only be tried by
a military court, with regard to the militia and reserve forces desertion may be brought to
a civil court. As stated in the Amry Act of 1881, desertion does not include quitting a regiment
for the purpose of enlising in an alternate regiment in 161 as it
is covered alternately as a fradulent enlistement.

Previously it was considered "desertion and fraudulent enlistment," which led to the undue magnification
of statistics.

Within the British Army, a gross total from 1903-1904 finds that 4000 or 1.4% of the army deserted.
However the net loss, when one factors in men rejoining from desertion and fraudulent enlistment,
is only 1286 or less than .5% In the United States, since there are signicantly less desserters
who rejoin or are recaptured, they have a large problem with soldier desertion (see Journal of the
Roy. United Service Inst., December 1905, p. 1469). During 1900-1901, the US had 3110 desert
which accounts for 4.3%, and in 1901-1902 they had 4667 or 5.9% desert. Again in 1904-1905,
6553 desserted or 6.8%, and in 1905-1906, 6258 out of no more than 60,000 men dessereted, equivalent
to 7.4% of their army. For both the British Army and the United States Army, dessertion while
actively serving, is punishable by death.

In Europe service in the army is compulsory and desertion is uncommon. Desertoin usually only
occurs when the individual wishes to leave their country outright.

Preiviously in the English army, deserters who were caught were tattooed with the letter "D"
to ensure they did not re-enlist. However, due to public outcry which became wrongly convinced
this practice was done by red-hot irons or some other type of torture,
the practice has been abandoned.

The Navy Discipline Act 1866, and the Naval Deserters Act 1847, are
similar to the Army Act of 1881 in that their policies on desertion.

In the US Navy they use the term "straggling" to refer to absence without leave where the individual
most likely does not intend to desert. Further, the US offers a reward of approximately $20 or $30
for the delivery and subsequent arrest of desserters from both the
army and navy.

In the British merchant service desertion is defined as abandonning one's duty by quitting the ship
before the termination of one's contract, without justification,
and with no intention of returning.

Desertion is not only used with regards to military services abandonment
but is also used when a man abandons his wife and/or children.

Per the Matrimonial Causes Act of 1857, dessertion of one's wife
is a matrimonial offence and a decree of judicial separation may be
issued by either party on the grounds of desertion without cause beyond
two years.

EMMANUEL ADOLPHE DES ESSARTS is a french poet born in Paris on February 5th, 1893. His father
was Stanislas Langois des Essarts, who was also a poet and a fairly well known novelist. Emmanuel
receieved his education from the École Normale Supérieure, and
he later became a literature professor at both Dijon and Clermont.

He became a member of the Academy of Sciences in 1783 shortly after completing his education in
medecine. Also in 1783, he explored North Africa as part of a scientific expedition which
lasted two years. He brought back with him a solid collection of plants and animals of which 300
of the 1600 were original finds. He was nominated in 1786 for the
post of professor at the Jardin de Plantes which was previously held
by his friend L.F. Lemonnier. He also had the pleasure of publishing
Flora Atlantica sive historia plantarum quae in Atlante, agro Tutetano
el Algeriensi crescunt in two volumes. The castellated structure at
the foot of the High Rocks, now used for manufacturing purposes, occupies the site of the
Old Town's Mills, given by Henry III. To the inhabitants, and out of which he made provision
for the hermit of Mount St. Gilbert To live in peace and harmony
today is still the need of men and women as it has always been-- to encourange rather than to discourage,
to work together rather than to strive against one another, to seek
purpose in life through open giving rather than shallow opportunism.

Religion has striven to advance these beliefs, due to the fact that
they reflect the development of man's spirit.However repeatedly the
plain truths expressed by powerful leaders of religion have been lost
amidst the intricate grand institutions and the desire for power.

Friends have been distingusishing in their unwilling resistance to these distractions of the
mind of the plain truth that we have to learn how to love man and God, there being no other
way to redemption. With each new age, the Quakers have developed means of witnessing the ways
of love and peace.
For friends today it may be a crucial calling to react to the marriages that are fallina apart
and the estrangement of the generations by locating in their own families an d marriages and
different kind of reativeness which comes from a meanigful and true
sharing of life?

Can love be shared around the world, if it cannot grow between man
and woman in their intimate relationship, where life and love is created?

Can one declare peace among the world in not able to get along well with one's own family?
Our ages mood is mixed with hope and discouragement.

So much has been accomplished, in technology; yet we have achieved
very little, in terms of peace and harmony with each other.

We have been able to make this a world for man to enjoy, but we have not made a world for man
to enjoy what we have made.

 40
Oleander 30 " 40 Verbenas 6 " 8 Vinca 12 " 15
All tough vegetation, cultivated when the wood is green, may be promulgated in a likely manner.
The normal time to take off the wood for such a cutting is in the
summer season.

CHAPTER XII.
GRAFTING.
Grafting is a method that have to be known and performed by both the young and the old. I had a wild
apple tree in the corner of my garden which grew from the seed. It bore fruit but the taste was
always sour and bland that even pigs refused to have it. Every time I see this tree i get annoyed
so i decided to change the nature of this wild apple tree. I started working being a gardner myself
i acquired cions of ten or more different apple trees and started to graft my old useless apple
tree in the spring. Finally, when i was done without my knowledge i have planted 50 cions on
different branches and except three everything bore fruit "after
its own kind," Baldwins, Greenings, Gravensteins, Spitzenbergs, etc.,
Once the grafting was finished successfully the useless apple tree
became my favourite tree in the garden.

I completely changed to nature of the apple tree.

Other trees such as Pear, plum, apple and cherry trees can be grafted successfully by anyone
who know the operations grafting. The tools needed for grafting are grafting-knife, a hatchet,
a wedge a small hand-Saw and wax to cover the wound.

If you wish the tree to be grafted entirely and if the tree to be grafted is a big tree then
all the limbs of the tree have to be remove and not spoiling the symmetry of the tree. You
have to cut off the limbs to be grafted about mid-way using the hand-saw, and using the hatchet
or the wedge a deep and entirely cross have to be made to plant the
cion, once this is done a iron has to be inserted in the cut to hold
it open until the cion is placed.

Once the cion is placed the iron can be taken out and the cion will
be held in place.

If the diameter of the limb that is needed to be grafted is more than 1 inch, then two grafts
have to be placed in the same limb, the grafts has to be placed in
a way that each cion will stand near the edge of the cut, making the
limb and the graft opposing each other.

The cions to be grafted should be cut before ascending the tree to be cut. A small basket can be
used to carry the wax and the grafts.

Once grafted, the wound have to be closed using wax so that air or wate wont be able to seep
throught tiny holes.

In wedge-grafting each cion is cut in the shape of the wedge, and the whole cion need not be three
to four inches in length.

To make the wax used for grafting you would need six pounds of resin, one and a half pound
of rough beef tallow and one-and-a-half pound of bees wax.

Put all contents into a pot and heat it for one half hour keeping it stirred all the time, when
this is done the contents then have to be poured to cool water till it become stiff. When it
becomes stiff the wax have to be gathered into balls. When wanted the balls have to laid in
warm water and the wax will become a softer paste, work the wax with the hands thoroughly before
using.

Wedge grafting is not the only method of grafting, there are more than ten different ways of
graftin a tree. The only differnece is the way the cion is been cut and in fitting it to the
stock. Anyone with a little practice can do grafting succesfully.

CHAPTER XIII.

HANGING BASKETS.--WARDIAN CASES AND JARDINIERES.   Hanging baskets used for plants are made
using differnet materials and forms. Some baskets are made using wire, clay and some are ornamanted
with fancy mouldings. Some baskets are made pretty by covering a wooden bowl with knots and roots.
but we know of none so desirable as the old style semi-globular wire
basket, when properly filled.

DIRECTIONS FOR FILLING HANGING BASKETS.
To fill a wire basket, the green moss that is found in the lower parts
of the tree trunks should be used as a lining covering the inside
of the wire using the moss. Before filling the basket with moss charcoal
or gravel should be used in the bottom thus helping it to hold the
moisture. 

Yet the definition of internal is clear; and one cannot object to it, if thought to signal that
the Seeing Power, the Seeing Act, and the Seen Things, can exist together in a combination which
lacks any break or distinction.
 

The castle sits well above the surrounding area, serving as a landmark for local inhabitants. It
dates back to the Norman Conquest, though no records of it from that period are in existence.
On the Domesday survey it was recorded as belonging to one William Peveril, lord of Derbyshire,
whose family owned it for three generations. The peppers need the stems on each end cut off and the
insides removed. Then fill the pepper with the dressing we made earlier. Put the peppers in a
baking pan and pour the white sauce and 2 cups water on top of them. Bake for an hour basting
the peppers often with the white sauce.
 

Mrs Combermere's equipage drove up to Mr Norman's door, while Miss Ward was out. accompanied
by Mr Newton, that large lady and her daughter Bell made their way up the stairs to Mrs Norman's
drawing room.
whenever Mrs Combermere honoured Cary with a call there was an apparent kindness and a feeling
of surprise.Mrs Combermere thought she was significant, and used to brag about how needed she
was to people  whom she termed to be lower ranked than herself.
But the matter of fact is that Cary lost her social status, which she had received with a calm
state of mind without any thought for the present. which on Bob created alas the wanted outcome;
we are unable to decide if it was Mrs Combermere's shouting and praising of himself or Mr Newton's
assumption of superiority, that made her to pollute herself or think twice.
Bab started to feel guilt and shame of staying in pentonville and was no longer herself, when
Mr Newton told her about Belgravia.  moving silently into the room in the middle of Mr Newton's
explanation of a beautiful place was Miss Ward, returning from a trip of buying things. the place
belonged to a good friend he stayed with for sometime, who had great
joy of meeting Mrs Combermere.

Miss Ward in a soft voice close to John Blomfield's ears told him
his way of narrating was in vivid details, and was surprised he was
in this company?

John Newton also known as John Blomfield, was shocked, and was looking out of surprise and worry
at the person that walked in.
fighting against his will he exclaimed to Miss Ward, not to say a
word, that he was on to it in an instant! 
pointing to the door
lofty was Miss Ward telling John Blomfield to carry on but with precaution.
how dare you enter a gentleman's house uninvited again. 
losing
all confidence, sad and disappointed. the young man and also a dear
friend of Lady Mary Manvers did not need to be asked the second time
as he moved down the stairs in haste and vanished out the front door,
which was shut firmly after him

 L'audace, l'audace, et toujours l'audace.' If Danton could have read
Byron, he would have felt as one in front of a magician's glass.

Every passion and fit, from the bloody days of September down to the gloomy walks by the banks
of the Aube, and the prison-cry that 'it was better to be a poor fisherman than to meddle with the
governing of men,' would have found itself there. It is true that
in Byron. we miss the firmness of noble and generous hope.

This makes him a more veritable embodiment of the Revolution than such a precursor as Rousseau,
in whom were all the unclouded anticipations of a dawn, that opened to an obscured noon and a
tempestuous night. Yet one knows not, in truth, how much of that violence of will and restless
activity and resolute force were due to less to confidence, then to the urgent necessity which every
one of us has felt, at some season and under some influence, of filling
up spiritual vacuity by energetic material activity.

Was this the secret of the mysterious charm that scenes of violent strife and bloodshed always had
for Byron's imagination, as it was perhaps the secret of the black transformation of the social
faith of '89 into the worship of the Conqueror of '99?

Nowhere does Byron's genius show so much of its own incomparable fire and energy, nor move with
such sympathetic firmness and amplitude of a pinion, as in Lara, the Corsair, Harold, and other
poems, where 'Red Battle stamps his foot,' and where.

The giant on the mountain stands, His blood-red tresses deep'ning in the sun, With death-shot glowing
in his fiery hands, And eye that scorcheth all it glows upon.
 Mr. Talbot has afresh proposed some modifications in his adjustment of advancing the
calotype paper. The cardboard is aboriginal iodized in the accepted way; it is again done over
with a saturated band-aid of gallic acerbic in distilled baptize
and dried.

Appropriately able he calls it the io-gallic paper: it will abide
acceptable for a ample time if kept in a columnist or portfolio.

If appropriate for use, it is done with a band-aid of nitrate of argent (fifty grains to the ounce
of distilled water), and it is again fit for the camera.
Exposure in the Camera.--The calotype cardboard appropriately able possesses a actual top amount
of affection if apparent to light, and we are appropriately provided with a average by which,
with the aid of the photogenic camera, we may around archetype angle from nature, figures, buildings,
and even yield portraits from the caliginosity befuddled on the cardboard by the active face.
The cardboard may be acclimated somewhat damp. The best plan for acclimation it in the camera
is to abode it amid a section of bowl bottle and some added actual with a collapsed surface,
as a section of bland slate or an adamant plate, which latter, if
fabricated warm, renders the cardboard added sensitive, and appropriately
the account is acquired added rapidly.

Time of Exposure.--With attention to the time which should be accustomed for the cardboard to abide
in the camera, no absolute rules can be laid down; this will depend altogether aloft the attributes
of the article to be copied, and the ablaze which prevails.

All that can be said is, that the time all-important for basic a acceptable account varies
from thirty abnormal to 5 minutes, and it will be by itself the aboriginal article of the abettor
to accretion by acquaintance this important knowledge.
Bringing Out the Picture.--The cardboard if taken from the camera, which should be done so as
to exclude every ray of light--and actuality the aphotic accelerate
of the camera bowl holder becomes of abundant use--bears no affinity
to the account which in absoluteness is formed.

 "Of course I do," said Garthorne, "I believe that is the most reasonable way
of establishing it. Enid, if you'll listen to my advise you will take Ernshaw's also, and permit
Vane to provide his own explanation after Commem."

"For real, I believe it's very horrific of both of you" said Enid.

"I absolutely can't envision why there is so much mystery. If it is important and vital then
it should be brought to my attention. But, I guess I must control my feminine impatience,
regardless it can't be anything too horrible if he'll be able to be present at the Theatre and
Sir Arthur can accompany him. I suppose I will hear details in regards to the matter at supper
tonight."

"I have no uncertainty that you will, Miss Raleigh," said Ernshaw,
and now, if you will pardon me, I have to to go to my rooms to get
prepared for my own share of the proceedings.

Good Morning."

"Good morning, Mr. Ernshaw," said Enid, a trifle stiffly. "That reminds me how disrespectful
I have been, I have not offered you congratulations as of yet."

"Oh, I haven't performed anything," said Ernshaw," at least, not in comparison with what Vane
has completed. You'll witness the difference in the Theatre. Good
morning again. Good morning, Mr Garthorne."

"Good morning--we shall
greet you later, I suppose?" replied Garthorne, as the door closed,
and then he repositioned himself to face Enid and went on: "He's an
extraordinary good fellow that Ernshaw. Quite a character, I believe,
enthusiast, and all that type of thing, but everyone here seems to
think he'll be a shining star some day." The idea was suggested to him by the Broch of Clickemin. He describes
it by saying it is hard to imagine that a gallery so small (three feet square!) could be used for
communication purposes.

Nonetheless, the smallness of the room serves as evidence of the tradition here and in southern
Scotland that the Picts were a race much shorter than the modern
human. Unfortunately, Noah took the idea to light a fire to cook the
trout, the parties have been stolen from my room. Had been dry for several days, there was
good wind, and fire, the capture of the broom, quickly went beyond that required for culinary purposes.
The boys first tried to suffocate on their coats, but seeing that serves no ran home to raise
the alarm. By the time the men could reach the scene of the fire had spread so quickly that attention
should be made to try to save the houses. The doctor's house was the most directly threatened
at first, and proceeded to strip it of all furniture, all that leads
to the waterfront to be ready to be removed if necessary.

The medical doctor was on duty, and you can imagine my feelings when I expected every moment
to see the Northern Light coming around the point, the doctor's house on fire and household
goods scattered to the wind! Then dismantled this place - the children have been sent from the beginning
to a safe place - and retired the hospital patients. Every man in the place was hard at work,
and there were few who dared to hope that we have a roof over our heads that night. Fortunately,
the wind dropped suddenly the firing ceased, and late at night we could go back and try to solve
the baby and furniture.

The goddess of disorder reigned supreme, and it was only after many hours of fatigue that we have
been able to find beds for infants and babies in their beds. And it was our boys who started the
fire! I am full of confusion every second when I stop to think about it, and I wonder if this
is not the psychological moment for my departure from this mission.

July 11
By invitation from the doctor I'm going for a trip next week's Northern Light. He gives me
the opportunity to see other parts of the coast before I fall into the Iron Bound Islands,
where you can connect to the south-going coastal steamer. The Prophet has encouraged me with
the observation that "almost all the ladies women that comes on board his wonderful you get
sick," but I will not be deterred.
This is a simple piece of a greeting for the day of departure is so
close that I feel I want to spend every minute with the little ones.
I count on your patience and understanding that despite my pen is
quiet, my heart still remains unrivaled. The
dome is split into three parts. The other casing is lead-covered wood. Another part is a cone
made of bricks that supports the latern and the cross.

The last part is an inner cupola of brick that serves little purpose. There are towers at
the west end that are 222 feet in height. He could not believe that I was so stupid not to realize what was
going on. If I tried to act to casual he may become suspicious. He was out to corrupt me into
thinking that his way of thinking would be best for me. As we were traveling down the streets
I decided to lead him to believe that I knew he was right. I said “I believe that other money
was bad, too.” He wore a negotiator, and carried in his crawl a word powerful
of the import of his wisdom of go.  He alighted from the prepare at the ruler inn at Tewksbury;
the landowner met him in the lobby, commenced, smiled, and escorted him into an excuse with
much apprehension. He took her aside, and sketchily explained that withdrawal, no sweat, and
a truck excuse to himself were the accommodations he wanted.

"I assume you sir," replied the owner, with a foresighted sparkle, "a junior civil turn over be
hunky-dory by way of transform; I reliance you'll single out every, someone here to your regard."
Deb then curtseyed and withdrew.
"Unfeigned," said the host to the foreman waiter, "who do you say so we've got in the overwrought
parlor? You'll never hold! I knew him the sparse I clapped view on him; dressed decorous as
I dido him at the Haymarket Stagecraft, the only night I radically
was at a Author duration burlesque.

The broken isolated coat, and the stripy trousers, and the Hessian
boots over them, and the pasturage trilby out of all accomplish, and
the gingham umbrella!"

"Who is he, ma'am?" said Unfeigned. "Why, the accomplished novel trouper, Mr. Listen," replied the
landlady, "come down for a transaction; he requests to be elementary, so we must not betray, or the
honest-to-goodness residence donate be after him."
This petite debate eagerness good for much abhorrence which afterward befell our unsettled approaching
Dumps. Bourgeois met him, he could not rear why, with a stupendous
beam on their mood.

As they conceded they alleged to one another, and the exclamation
"premium," "droll creature," "irresistibly preposterous," evidently
favorable to himself, reached his ears. At 4.40 camped on a large gully pointing northwards, with
a small water supply in a rocky bed of gneiss, containing several
tiny garnets. Strong wind from the north-west and light rain.  
24th
September (Sunday). In the analysis to the quantitative
methods are divided: (a) the seriousness in which the component is as an insoluble compound by
the addition of some reagents or by electrolysis, by running an electric
current (b) defined volume, the volume of a reagent of known strength
that a firm reaction is produced measured, (c) color when the solution
is a particular color that can be compared with the solutions of known
forces.

 

They stayed for about twenty one days and became close friends with the Bloor's. Then they
went back to their place on Burton Street to start looking for housing.
 In so much that by the passing of the broader lines through
one of his greater points it is expected that it will cut another proposed line into two parts of
equal sizing. We are expected to understand that the middle width of previously mentioned line
is distinguished by passing through the middle point marking as two equal parts.

Further consideration would be recommended that, Euclide by a line is seen as no more than what is seen
by Mr. Hobs in his view of the middle breadth. Euclides point is the same as Mr. Hobs' middle point.
By that same token Mr.Hobs' middle having no magnitude as the very middle rather than the whole
middle. The whole of the middle won't be equal to it's two halves rather, larger than both as
much as the middle comes to.

No breadth of Euclide's lines are perceived and his points having no great size.

Similarly viewed, when Euclide makes the terminal end of the line as do others likewise then
it is not the outer half of the point ending the line, (as the inner-half manifested as not the
end but rather the outer half is beyond it). Again Parts of the Outer Half, not quite the outer
part but rather the far outer part of that part on and on into infinitum. As long as any of the
line is left over we're not quite at the end consequently passing beyond the whole length as though
when the entire length is passed there would be nothing left. If
Mr. Hobs explains such as in page 3, that this (292). Serving our
turn well not as Punctum but only as Signum which he not at all allows
non esse nomen Quanti. CHAPTER II--FRANCIE Francie was
eleven years old, shy, secretive, and driven more children their age, but not back to school, which
was then housed by a governor and a private M'Brair, in a minister loses Montroymont office. The
boy, already popular in secret by his mother, was the most appropriate hand possible, run on a
message to hide food to the refugees, or watch on the horizon, take
a cabal. President of the New York Historical
Society.
LL.D Francis, The late W. John, New York.
George Gibbs, from Washington, D.C., wrote The Administration of Washington
and Adams. 
D.D. Gillett and Reverend E.H. of Harlem, New York,
who is the historian of the Presbyterian Church. "What do you
mean we can't get her?" she cried, grabbing his arm. "We have to!"

"Look, Bessie..." I just stared at her.
Her eyes widened. "What? What is it you're not telling me?"
I exhaled. I could barely get the words out. "They're, ah, cooking her."
First she blanched, a look of horror on her face. Then she sprang from the carriage and burst
through the kitchen door, knocking over everything in her wake, including a toddling boy. 
Astonished
by the noise,Mrs. Beck turned from the pot and faced Bessie who grabbed
her by her dress skirt and screamed at her, "Are you mad? How can
you do such a thing?" Mr. Moody MacTear, do you realize that brass
instrument players sweat a lot in orchestras and bands? -- What you
mean is a factor.

I can admit with certainty that their activities can and often do result in excessive perspiration.

Mr. Moody MacTear: Have you played the trombone by yourself ever? -- Never, neither did I play
the lyre.
Mr. Gladney Jebb, are you ready to deny that the greatness of the strain on nerves of the jazz
players, especially on drums exceeds that of the soldiers in front
line trenches during an intense bombardment? -- As a rule, I can easily
deny any statement from you, but I do admit on the drums. 
Sir Leonardo
Spaghetti Coyne A major cause of complaint was the
secrecy of the Inquisition's procedure.
However, there were still defenders, despite the horrors of it. Some of the defenders used absurd
arguments in defense of the Inqusition: "Paramo, in the quaint pedantry with which he ingeniously
proves that God was the first Inquisitor, and the condemnation of Adam and Eve the first model
of the Inquisitorial process, triumphantly points out that he judges them in secret, thus setting
the example which the Inquisition is bound to follow, and avoiding
the subtleties which the criminals would have raised in their defence,
especially at the suggestion of the crafty serpent.

That he called no witnesses is explained by the confession of the accused, and ample legal authority
is cited to show that these confessions were sufficient to justify the conviction and punishment."[NOTE:
Copy/pasted quote from source]
Prisoners who were stalwart in their refusal to confess were the recipients of the worst torture.
Legally, torture could only be performed once, but this rule was easy to bypass. A number of
tortures could legally be inacted in sequence, and if more evidence was unearthed, the torture
could be performed again.

When the casuists wanted to repeat torture, even after several days, they would use a loophole
of calling the new torture a "continuance of the first torture," rather than a repetition of
it. This commitment to nuance reveals the malice of the Inquisitors.
There was another difficulty, however. Confessions that were extracted during torture were not legally
useful, as noted by Eymeric himself.
If the prisoner repeated his confession after leaving the torture chamber, then his fate was
sealed. A problem, though, was what to do if he retracted his confession?
 The King was invited to accept the crown, in the “Chamber of Presence,” by the country’s
representatives. The King’s reply to this was, “More than the crown of many Kingdoms, I do
regard high the love of my good people and with God’s help, shall be ready to sacrifice my life
for their protection. I wish to live only till the religion and this kingdom prosper in all
happiness.” After this, “to the “Kirk of Scoon, in order and rank and according to their
positions” they proceeded. At the appointed hour, too, we went to the office of
the coach and saw the arrival of the machine which contained him and his lovely Baroness.
Those who have frequented the society of gentlemen of his profession (and more delicious?) Should
be aware that, when the rest of humanity looks horrible, dirty, angry, sad, after an hour forty-trip
coach , appears as a gay Bagman and spruce as when you started, having been in it a thousand
little conveniences for the trip, travelers who neglect common.

Pogson had a little portable toilet, which had not failed to take advantage, and with his curly
long blond hair flowing under a seal-skin cap with a tassel of gold, with a silk handkerchief,
blue and gold a crimson velvet waistcoat, a light green coat cross-section, a pair of pants brickdust
prescribed color and a neat waterproof, presented together, so elegant and distingue appearance
as anyone could want. She had on a clean collar at breakfast, and a couple of white boys to
enter the barrier, and looked, as he rushed into my arms, more like a man out of a hat, a descendant
of a vehicle that has just perform one of the laziest, most boring most flat, stale, dirty travel in
Europe.

To my surprise, there were two ladies in the car with my friend, not one, as I had expected. One
of them, a strong woman, carrying sundry baskets, bags, umbrellas and women's coats, was evidently
a maid, the other black, was just a Pogson, of course. I could see a gleam of curl on a sallow
face, - a dark hat flapping in the curl, - but these were hidden by a veil of lace and a huge
velvet hat, of which birds coronation-paradise where obviously in a state of mute. He was
locked in many shawls and wrappers, and she put it, hesitant, a little walk of transport - Pogson
was by her side in an instant, and, gallantly putting one of his white kids around the waist,
with the help of this creature interesting to descend. I saw on your walk, which was five and
forty years, and my little Pogson was a lost man.
After a brief parliament among them - which was lovely to hear how my friend Samuel was about
to speak, what he called French, a woman who could not understand a word of his jargon - rental
cars developed mutual, Baroness waved the French captain bowed gracefully. "Adyou!" Said Samuel,
and waved his lily hand. "Adyou-addimang."
A brisk little gentleman, who had made the trip in the same car with Pogson, but had more modestly
to the background in the Imperial, which here happens to us, and greeted me with a "How are
you?" He has assumed its own small suitcase, and walked off, scattering a cloud of commissioners,
who would gladly have saved him the trouble.
"You know that chapter?" Pogson says, "surly fellow, right?"
"The kindest man in existence," he replied, "All the world knows little Major British."  
"It's
a Major, right? - Why, that's the man who dined with us; Killyax is fortunately not call me the
captain before him, could not have liked, you know, "and then Sam fell into a dream - what
was the object of his thoughts soon appeared.
"Have you ever seen a foot and ankle?"

Said Sam, after sitting for some time, regardless of the novelty
of the scene, his hands in his pockets, deep in thought.

"Is not it a slap-up woman, eh, now?" continued, "and began listing its attractions, like a horse-rider
that the points of a pet.  
"You seem to have gone long enough
and I said," with the promise of his visit tomorrow. "  
"A good
length? - I believe you. Leave me alone for that." The only way the dispirited soldiers
could get to the plateau above was through a ravine within the point. When the stormy morning
broke, the soldiers made their way through the gully to the top of the cliff and made a fire
there to dry their clothes and cook their scanty meal. In the ancient
imperial busts, the Emperor Decius wears a cuirass with a toga in the Condemnation, on the right
shoulder. His sceptre is terminated by a little idol. The Roman eagle with outspread wings
in a garland of bay leaves above his throne.

In the other fesco the statues appear to be reproductions of ancient
Roman monuments.

But at present no one can fully appreciate its value as the last
picture has been damaged.

The execution of these pictures is really remarkable.

Fra Angelico has acquired and reveals new qualities without losing
his fundamental qualities.

The four Evangelists among the clouds on a background of blue, dotted
with golden stars, are noble and full of character, the figures of
the saints on the simulated pilasters, and at the corners of each
side of the chapel, might be classed among Fra Angelico's best.

The fine and nobel figure of St. Bonaventure is remembered by everyone.

This statue with his flowing white beard, thoughtful eyes, and an
aspect of goodness and seriousness combined that is enchanting.

No other figure however beautiful can show such just proportions,
solid form and majestic design.

Here Fra Angelico reveals his skill in all its fullness and when we reflect on his advanced age,
one can only remain in admiring surprise before the freshness of his creative power, and the force
of his execution.
The documental evidence that Benozzo Gozzoli assisted his master in these frescoes and doubtless
attribute to him the fine decorations. In which roses bud amidst flowers and foliage of every
king, and garlands resting on children's heads or are festooned on medallions bearing the tiara,
and crossed keys of Nicholas V. But one cannot give him the merit of having beautified the
scenes of the Peaching of St. Stephen of St. Laurence distributing alms.
Although Benozzo may have executed some of the figures, there is a
difference between this and supposing that he had any conspicuous
part in the compositions especially in the St. laurence series which
is not believable.

 The wetness that lies in the atrium outside, making the grass
and flowers come up around the Bysantine pillar which goes over a pine cone, hase gone into
the flat roofed nave an dlarge aisles, kepping it apart from a colonnade. A green mold is in
the holes in the walls, rent around by land slides and quakes. The cipolline columns holding
the round arches on square capitals are dull, and thire green veined mable looks like wood
that has been long forgotten. The entire expense was under the supervision of handful of
the trusted leaders and audited by the chiefs, all of whom were kept otherwise undivulged. The
north region became the treasury as well as the arsenal of the entire Afrikaner Bond.
Hundreds of agents were employed in the Cape Colonies and Natal suborning the Boer colonists;
many of whom held positions in branches of the Colonial Government, and could supply required
information and even influence elections.

There were also many permanent agents taking salary in Europe. Thy were emissaries abroad, some
touring America, England, and the Continent, as the Rev. Mr. Bosman did recently, also did
the P.M.G., Isaac van Alphen.

Some money was used for electioneering campaigns, as had been done in the Cape Colony towards
a Bond majority.
A considerable amount is spent in the diplomatic arena in Holland to regain foreign statesmen, sympathizing,
for the northen allies.

One attempt that failed was with Germany.

It seems that progress would had been possible in the past by luring Emperor William to favour
a Holland-Transvaal combination, he, as a true "Bayard" rid himself, instead preferring obvious
brilliant advantages for his people than to soil Germany's fair fame in a connection resulting
in nothing less than assisting a conspiracy.
Readers of the Johannesburg Standard and Diggers' News might recall aside from attacks upon capitalism
quite a collection of articles intended to distract mine workers and operatives. For that purpose
agents were also employed, and to impose the view that the Government was the enemy of capitalism,
and would put down its victims (the mine workers) in the State.
Supporting miners and the working class against reducing greatly the rights of workers, and
as a show of it's sincerity passed a law that makes eight tours a legal day's labour. With such
it was hoped to gain the favour of the miners. Although those men were, not to be taught by quasi-socialistic
professions, months later, the exodus prior to the war occurred,
most of them left, the Government depended on them to stay and work
in the mines for when such a time would come by.

The acquisition of the gold mines and their exploitation for the benefit of the Government brought
about a conundrum for a nation engaged in war, due to plenty of gold
and a scarcity of paper currency, the gold that was taken did not
equal commercial paper values.

With the already mentioned statements the following may also be said. States showing themselves
as practicing neutrality still to trade with the Transvaal to a large
extent. It is unacceptable that that the State has no funds available
for payments other than the gold taken from the looted mines. She was led by him to a warm rock where he sat her down and she
put her face down with deep exhausted sighs that followed her tears. "I don't know anything about
your dad, as you understand, and I do care a great deal for your mom," Sir Basil soon stated, "But
it's also true that my care extends to you also."

"But that doesn't mean you could care for me to such an extent that
you'd think she was wrong."

"I'm not sure, but why not? If she is
in error. It's possible to love people and know how misguided they
are." The republicans carried all of the artillery within their
reach with them. Being well acquainted with the country served them well. For the armies composed
of thirty or forty thousand men and four or five pieces sufficed
well enough for those who served.

Naturally, the field pieces would generally have been light.
 He - the elder of course - barely pulled out something from his pocket to pay
the youngster.He was very stingy man , he would not even let a dust to fall on his clothes.The
only thing that he enjoyed in or better said the only thing that he would let him self to enjoy
in , the political club, and maybe from time to time he would read some book.

Nether authorship or publication were forgotten."Dialogue of love" and "Reflections of the state of
nature" were finished in this period.From this very art pieces quotations
were already made."I too was once in love," he says of himself in
the former.It couldn't been well in Ajaccio , and must been the memories
of the old Valence who now is gone that create the sad confession.It
was Napoleon "from the future" who was presaged in the antithesis.

"I go further than the denial of its existence; I believe it hurtful to society, to the individual
welfare of men." The other trenchant document demolishes the cherished hypothesis of Rousseau
as to man in a state of nature. The precious manuscripts brought from Corsica were sent to the
only publisher in the neighborhood, at Dôle. The much-revised history was refused; the other--whether
by moneys furnished from the Ajaccio club, or at the author's risk, is not known--was printed
in a slim octavo volume of twenty-one pages, and published with the title, "Letter of Buonaparte
to Buttafuoco." A copy was at once sent to Paoli with a renewed request for such documents
as would enable the writer to complete his pamphlet on Corsica. His trial
for horse meat is no better than chance in the game came in a culture of Guinea, two thousand.
Favorites victory cost the sum of over six thousand pounds.

We learn that he was brought to recover in the Derby Shylock support
for almost nine thousand pounds einstausendzweihundert guineas .

And that's the kind of man who can always be chosen by the strength of the interests of the
family, to make laws for the millions of workers from the UK!

DOCUMENT NO. 6. Smash them until they are nothing but pieces and keep adding a small
degree of soup until they are completly mixed together. After mixing, cool the soup and make
sure it is nice and smooth. You may want to strain it through a sieve and set it on fire, stirring
frequently before you serve, to ensure it is hot. Don't forget to add cream.

This will take 3 hours and is available all year.
You can feed about 8 people.

The Almond tree is originally from
the northern parts of Asia and Africa, but now can be European locations
such as France, Italy, and Spain. It blooms in the spring and produces
fruit in the month of August. The almonds are either bitter or sweet,
but are of the same family. In the simplicity of the temple, in comparison with the ornate
character of the exterior is very impressive, but this simplicity does not affect anything
impressiveness long arcades, very high roof, precious lines that rise from the ground and
support, as are thin veins of stone, the shadowy ceiling. Rose-windows, four in number, are filled
with a glass of the thirteenth century, and high windows and clerestory chevet contains many
colored mosaic of a similar nature. I was particularly struck with a rose window above the western
portal. It is an old vision, the Eternal Father is throned in the central ring of the window
and glass is broadcasting hierarchy of Paradise, angels and archangels and all the companies of
Heaven, a wider tour of redemption are grouped, planned in adoration of the greatness God.

I noticed two very interesting tombs in Reims cathedral. The first is the sarcophagus of Jovinus, Christian
prefect of Rheims, in the fourth century, which protects the church and was originally buried
in the abbey of St. Nicaise, where his tomb was brought to the cathedral.

It consists of a block of snowy marble, nine feet and four feet high, which consular general is
presented in a spirit bas-relief mounted on horse and saving the life of a man than a lion, whose
flank Jovinus launched his spear. Very good indeed construction of the monument. Figures that
surround Jovinus men are handsome face, clear portraits, their clothes and weapons are ready with
the greatest accuracy to detail. The figures are about half life size.
The other is the tomb of St. Remigius, Renaissance work erected by Cardinal Delenoncourt in
1533. It is abundant and brighter than beautiful. Twelve statues, complete with life-size,
a twelve peers of France, six were prelates of Reims, Laon, Langres, Beauvais, Chalons, and
Noyon; six peers are the chiefs of Burgundy, Normandy and Aquitaine, and the number of Flanders,
Champagne and Toulouse. The white marble of these figures is less stagey and beautifully crafted
effect is impressive.
The western wall of the Interior is facing niches in which statues seem to emerge from a cloud
of gloom. At one time tombs of the most remarkable sort crowded aisles, enshrining the relics
of saints and bishops, but during the raging of the terror of those
revolutionaries violated tombs, seizing their resources to be allocated
with an ax and hammer their carvings.

However, in the end, the church of Notre Dame Reims seems to have suffered much loss of clearing
away these obstacles view thereof arcades, now depends on the solemn beauty of simplicity and
dignity of its lines and proportions, the effect of windows, and
of religious darkness, which is retained in its noble session.

 He hardly had
any of that type of education which is usually offered in school-classes and therefore he was
never able to read either Greek or Latin. Because of his lack of knowledge he never got original
work of many anceint writers and only read them through translations.
 There was something distinguised in his appeareance that grabbed my attention.Physically
beautifull white long white hair,. slight,sensitive hands,shabby
clothes, but of a cut signifying that it had been made made for a
person from superior wood chopper. Often had she feared
for him one of the misfortunes contrary to which Providence does not always defend the drunkard. Now
the misfortune had reached, she was fain to be ignorant of the kind
of it.

Her new guardian, afresh, was conspicuously a gentleman; he treated
her with flawless politeness and esteem, and, from the night of the
day when she left school, she had been in the ascribe of that evidently
correct chaperon, the handsome housekeeper with the condemning countenance.

Mr. Cranley had even granted up to her his own rooms in Victoria Square, and had lodged elsewhere;
his accurate address Margaret did not know.

The only actually dainty point--Cranley's assumption of the title
of "Mr. Lithgow"--he candidly confessed to her when they were well
out of the Dovecot.

He comprised that, for the fulfilment of her father's last desire, the con of the telegram and
the presumed title had been essential, though highly repugnant to the sentiments of an agent and a
gentleman. Poor Margaret had glimpsed not anything of gentlemen, except as philanthropists, and (as
we know) philanthropists allow themselves a permit and discretion not accustomed in widespread society.
Finally, even had the girl's suspicions been awakened, her sickness stopped her from too nearly
reconsidering the situation. She was with her father's ally, an older man by far, and thus a more
agreeable guardian than Maitland. She was fulfilling her father's desire, and wanted shortly
to be put in the way of self-reliance, and of making her own livelihood; and self-reliance was
Margaret's ideal.  Her father's ally, her own protector--in that lightweight she considered
Cranley, when she was well sufficient to believe consecutively.

There could be nothing less entire hallucination.

Cranley was one of those egotists who manage undoubtedly live, but whose reality, when they
are found out, is a perpetual shock even to the self-centred rush of men. In him the gut feeling
of self-preservation (without which the rush could not have endured for a week) had stayed
wholeheartedly unmodified, as it is changed in remainder of us, by thousands of years of inherited
communal experience. Cran-ley's temper, in every juncture, was accurately that of the first
human being who ever discovered himself and other human beings labouring in a inundate for
a bobbing log that will only support one of them.
 We have never approved such long engagements even after
having happy cases like Jacob and Rachel.
* * * * *
A PAYING GAME.
To testify that law of Might as being Right, while Belgium lie under your heel, And without
appeal, Innocence should support your Schrecklichkeit scheme, we say, “Justice will be back
on track and your methods can never with stand.” “Can’t they?” you said: “they can- and will!”

And the circle is now complete as a wheel, and, lying on the lap of
destiny, you’re hearing, no appeal, the final terms we dictate;
and when you lament (in German) while presenting the bill: “Ach,
Hmme!!

We can never pay,” "Can't you?" we'll cry; "you can--and will!"
O.S.
* * * * *
PEACE ON BRIGHTER SIDE
I have not yet left the Army, but recently I have taken leave. You do not really want to be
demobilized at once at the moment. After all, winning – or say, to pay – being able to
afford a luxurious lifestyle for a fortnight that may costs few pounds could be much better
than to have equal number of shillings for a similar period of hard
work. The former one indicates the financial outlook of my civilian
career. However, for me at Blighty's future appeared glorified, and
life was very satisfactory. I felt that I was able to say "Ha, ha"
amid the captains (although I have only two pips in my account). Then
later, I met Woggles in the road that leads to the downtown. 
I
know Woggles for many years. She became V.A.D sometime back and started
driving an ambulance in France, since then I have not seen her and
greeted her with expressing my happiness. 
"Oh, Woggles”, I shouted,"we
should celebrate this great occasion. What is your opinion?" 
"if
you wish, we can go back and I can show you the country side. But
I would prefer, if you can come to my house for tea. I could prepare
some 'Delight' Dog's – I suppose you still like simple things"
"Oh, as you wish" I said in cheerful manner. 
Ah, this is a painful
sort afternoon and late evening. The bogie (the puppy) was very annoying
as he is missing his evening walk he might be comforted with “Dog’s
Delight”. It is a big homemade bread to please me and Bogie’s
mother sometime ago. 
As we are walking in the fields, Woggles said,
"I should warn you, that Dad and Mom have gone out today, I guess
your dog will behave well” 
I said, “I haven’t introduced
each other, right” I signed Bogie, who was forwarding in front of
us, and made her sit as if in a begging posture. Then I commanded
to fix the eyes kindly, and said, “Woogles & Bogie—two very nice
people” then Bogie barked putting the tongue out, Woggles laughed
in her style. 
When we are the Rectory, I was very “delighted”
as she sang for me beautifully than ever, Bogie was very calm and
delighted as well; I felt very happy and appeared as if I am in love
and laid back in the big and comfortable chair. 
“Your idea of
tea is very inspiring. I do not remember when I was very pleased about
myself and my existence. Right now, my spirits and morals are very
high even Mount Everest could fall short” 
Woggles agreeably said,
“yeah, I can feel that, do you want more tea?” When there are a lot of belugas those who hunt them must make haste
because they can disappear on the tide. And there can be lots ofthem.
Sometimes 500 disappear on one tide. In 1870 at Riviere Ouelle, 101
of them were killed by just four hunters in a single night. Class III, Red Algae (Rhodophyceae) 
It's color and form grants
Red Algae a place among the most beautiful and interesting members
of the plant kingdom. However, they are confined to salt water. This
makes it difficult for those inland to study fresh samples. Work can
still be done with dried samples and the plant can also be preserved
in strong alcohol.