ON THE KING'S SERVICE

Inward Glimpses of Men at Arms

BY THE REV. INNES LOGAN, M.A. CHAPLAIN TO THE FORCES SEPT. 1914-MAY 1916

HODDER AND STOUGHTON LONDON NEW YORK TORONTO

MCMXVII

TO MY WIFE

This little book is written as a slight tribute of love and respect for those with whom the
writer had, for over twenty months, the honour of association.

UNITED FREE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND MANSE, BRAEMAR.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

MUSTERING MEN

                                                              PAGE

  I. THOSE GAUNT UNLOVELY BUILDINGS                              3
 II. WHY THE FIRST HUNDRED THOUSAND ENLISTED                     7
III. UBIQUE                                                     10

CHAPTER II

A REINFORCEMENTS CAMP

  I. THE SUNNY VALLEY                                           19
 II. THE MAN FROM SKYE                                          22
III. 'YOU CAN HEAR THEM NOW'                                    26

CHAPTER III

A CLEARING STATION WHEN THERE IS 'NOTHING TO REPORT'

  I. FROM PARAPET TO BASE                                       33
 II. 'DO YOU THINK THAT SORT OF THING MATTERS NOW?'             45
III. THE NAME OF JESUS                                          50

CHAPTER IV

THE AFTERMATH OF LOOS

  I. THE FLAVOUR OF VICTORY                                     57
 II. DOUBTS AND FEARS                                           63
III. OUR SHARE OF THE FIFTY THOUSAND                            69

CHAPTER V

DUMBARTON'S DRUMS

  I. BACK AGAIN!                                                79
 II. THE FIRST SHOCK OF WAR                                     81
III. AT THE NOSE OF THE SALIENT                                 88

CHAPTER VI

WINTER WARFARE

  I. THE SHELL AREA                                              95
 II. 'I HATE WAR: THAT IS WHY I AM FIGHTING'                    103
III. BILLETS AND CAMPS                                          106

CHAPTER VII

HOW THE ROYALS HELD THE BLUFF: AN EPISODE OF TRENCH WARFARE

  I. WAITING                                                    117
 II. THE BLUFF                                                  125
III. 'WE'VE KEEPIT UP THE REPUTATION O' THE AULD MOB, ONYWAY'   128

CHAPTER VIII

THE HISTORIC TRIANGLE                                            135

MUSTERING MEN

CHAPTER I

MUSTERING MEN

I

Those gaunt unlovely buildings

The War Office built Maryhill Barracks, Glasgow, to look exactly like a gaol, but these gaunt
unlovely buildings, packed beyond endurance with men of the new army, were at least in some
way in touch with what was happening elsewhere. Even in that first month of the war it seemed
callous to be breathing the sweet, clear air of Braemar, or to let one's eyes linger on the
matchless beauty of mountain and glen. The grey spire of my church rising gracefully among
the silver birches and the dark firs, bosomed deep in purple hills, pointed to some harder
way than that. Stevenson, who wrote part of Treasure Island here, called it 'the wale (pick)
of Scotland,' but just because it was so we saw more clearly the agony of Belgium and the men
of our heroic little Regular Army dying to keep us inviolate.

Up to the 10th of September recruits poured in in such numbers that it was hard to cope with
the situation in the most superficial way. On that date the standard was raised, and, as though
a sluice had been dropped across a mill dam, the stream stopped suddenly and completely. I
suppose that was the object of the new regulation, but it caused misunderstanding, and to this
day the spontaneous rush of the first month of the war has never been repeated. Beyond doubt
the numbers were too great to be properly handled. Men slept in the garrison church, in the
riding school, on the floor in over-crowded barrack-rooms, in leaky tents without bottoms to
them. There were no recreation rooms. It rained a great deal, and once wet a man with no change
of clothing or underclothing remained wet for days in his meagre civilian suit. There were
too few blankets, no braziers, and the cheap black shoes of civil life were soon in tatters.
Everybody became abominably verminous, and though the food was good enough in its way the cooks
were overwhelmed, and it was often uneatable. Nobody was to blame, and in an astonishingly
short time order began to emerge, but in those early days one enormous 'grouse' went up continually
from the new army that was not yet an army, and those conditions were partly responsible for
the fact that when the standard was lowered again the flow of recruits was so much less than
before. This, the faculty for hearty grousing, in the army whimsical, humorous, shrewd, sometimes
biting, never down-hearted, is evidently an old national custom, for Chaucer uses the word
half a dozen times. But the aggravated discomfort of men soft from indoor life was really pitiful.

Before long all recruits except those for the Royal Field Artillery were sent elsewhere, and
the barracks became a great depot for this arm of the service, with Colonel Forde in command.
What marvels were done in those early days, and how hard pushed the country was, will be realised
when it is understood that for months a body of men numbering never less than two thousand,
and sometimes as many as three times that number, had only two field guns for training purposes,
and that officers had to be sent out to the Expeditionary Force who had worn a uniform only
for three, four, or five weeks.

II

Why the First Hundred Thousand Enlisted

The first hundred thousand had some characteristics of their own compared with their successors.
They contained a large number of men who do things on the spur of the moment, the born seekers
after adventure, men to whom war had its attractions. Many a man who had never found his place
in life, because his was the restless, roving spirit which could not settle, or that chafed
against ordered conventional ways, found his happiness at last in August 1914. Alongside those
were the men who were passionately patriotic and saw very clearly and quickly the long issues
involved to the country they loved. The fate of Belgium had a far more moving influence with
the ranks of the new army than the officer class, I think, quite realised. Indeed, with the
later recruits I gathered the impression that indignation at the German atrocities in Belgium
was the prevailing motive in their enlistment. There can be no question in the mind of any
one who worked intimately among the men of the new armies in the autumn and winter of 1914
that the invasion of Belgium was the one shocking stroke that rallied the country as one man,
and that nothing else in the situation, as it was known, would have done this. The people as
a whole did not grasp the imminence of the German menace. Of the torturing pressure on the
thin khaki line that barred the pass to the sea we knew nothing. Day by day and night by night
we were regaled with stories of 'heavy German losses' and futile tales of the deaths of German
princes; neither our manhood nor our imagination was fully captured, for of the almost unbelievable
heroism of our brothers we were never told. Perhaps the silence was justified; the enemy might
have learned how near they were to victory, and with a supreme effort have broken through.
At all events, unavoidably or not, the youth of the country as a whole was never, throughout
this winter, really roused to its best. All the more honour to the first hundred thousand!

III

Ubique

After this war is over no soldier can ask 'What does the Christian Church do for me?' The members
of the Church, acting through its organisation, or more frequently through other organisations
of which its members were the moving spirits, rose to the occasion nobly all over the country.
Glasgow was no exception. It did the Churches, too, much good, teaching them to work together.
Here is an example. The men were lodged all over the city, two or three hundred in one hall,
more than that in another. In every instance arrangements were made for their recreation and
comfort. In a given district one congregation gave its hall as a recreation room, another paid
all expenses, a third supplied a church officer for daily cleaning, the members joined in giving
magazines and papers, and in providing tea and coffee; the missionary of one congregation held
services, and all united in giving concerts. The Y.M.C.A., which does not accept workers unless
they are members of the Christian Church, came on the scene and built a hut, through the generosity
of Mrs. Hunter Craig, in the barrack square.

On this, in the early months of 1915, there followed a revival of religion among the Maryhill
Barracks men, whose centre was the Y.M.C.A. hut. This revival had the marks in it which we
younger men had been told were the marks of a true revival, but from which many had shrunk
because they were associated in our days with flaming advertisement, noise, and ostentation.

A wise old Scots minister was once asked, 'How are we to bring about a revival?' 'It is God
who gives revival.' 'But how are we to get Him to give it?' 'Ask Him,' he said. Perhaps in
this case we may say humbly that our asking was largely in the form of gaining the confidence
of the men, for when we had all become friends the movement began quietly one night through
the action of an agent of the Pocket Testament League, who was spending the evening with us.
The meetings looked prosaic enough to the eye; there was no band or solo singing or outward
excitement, and the hut was a plain wooden building, but the strain was very intense at times.
Sometimes as many as a hundred in one week would stay behind and profess conversion, desiring
to yield to the profound spiritual impulse urging them from within to make Christ's mind and
spirit their principle in life. All had been cast loose from their moorings and had been trying
to find their feet in new surroundings. Most of them were just decent lads who had never thought
much about it before. There were others who at last saw a chance to make a fresh start and
grasped thankfully at it. A few were 'corner-boys,' learning in discipline and comradeship
a lesson they had never dreamed of. I think there was everywhere in the new army a certain
moral uplift arising from the consciousness of a hard duty undertaken, and it was not difficult
to lead this on to a more personal and spiritual crisis. There was something very lovable about
them. A tall, handsome fellow from a Canadian lumber camp said, with real distress in his face,
'I've tried and tried, and, God help me, I can't. It's no use.' His chum tucked his arm through
his and declared with a warmth of affection in his voice, 'I'll look after him, guv'nor.'

Many months afterwards in a Flemish town I saw some of their batteries go by clattering over
the stony streets. The flashlight from an electric torch lit up the riders flitting from darkness
to darkness on either side of the broad pencil of light. It showed bronzed faces, competent
gestures, stained uniforms, the marks of veterans, men who had been in action many times with
their guns. I am sure that they do their duty not only to their king but to One Higher, too,
in the words of the brave motto of their corps, 'Ubique quo fas et gloria ducunt.'

In April orders came to join the Expeditionary Force.

A REINFORCEMENTS CAMP

CHAPTER II

A REINFORCEMENTS CAMP

I

The Sunny Valley

The reinforcements camp lay pleasantly in a sunny valley. The nearest town was Harfleur, besieged
exactly five hundred years earlier by Henry V. of England, who placed his chief reliance on
his big guns and his mines and was not disappointed. The camp commandant was insistent that
the ground round the tents and huts should be turned into gardens, and before long the valley
was bright with flowers. There was peace over all the landscape here. Sometimes a train of
horse trucks, crowded with men standing at the sliding doors or sitting with legs dangling
over the rails, panted up the long slope past the foot of the valley, and every evening the
supply trains pulled slowly off on their way to the front, each laden with one day's rations
for twelve thousand men. Fresh drafts for the infantry and artillery arrived every day, stayed
a few days, and then were sent up the line. Probably a thousand men a month would be a fair
estimate for the wastage from a division at that time, that is, the whole Expeditionary Force
had to be renewed completely once a year, as far as its fighting units were concerned. Drafts
therefore were continually passing through our camp, and I had many opportunities of studying
the morale of individuals of all ranks. The result was interesting and worth setting down.
My experience was that the good heart of fighting men was affected by only two avoidable causes.
The first was the large number of young able-bodied men engaged in occupations, on the lines
of communications and at the base, which might have been carried through effectively by others.
These young men never were in danger, while those who happened to have enlisted in combatant
corps were sent back to face death again and again. This (we are told) has now been rectified,
but it was for long a source of great soreness. The second influence making for soreness was
the amazing amount of wrangling that went on at home, among the newspapers, between masters
and men, and so on. Officers would get furious with the conduct of the 'workers,' and condemn
them wholesale as a class. One had to be at once cautious and persistent in bringing home to
them the fact that their own men, whom they admired and loved, whom they knew would follow
them anywhere, were drawn from just the same class as those men who were out on strike. Another
reason why it would have been better to have had older men and married men at the bases lay
in the temptations surrounding the men there on every side. These also have to be reckoned
with as part of the inevitable cost of war. It says much for the grit and character of the
average Briton that so many come through unscathed.

II

The Man from Skye

As I was going round the tents one day I had a long talk with a man in a draft just leaving
for the front to join a Highland regiment. He had not been long out of hospital, and, like
his companions, had scarcely pulled himself together after the sadness of a second farewell.
Following a good plan of always handing on any rumour, however improbable, which is of a thoroughly
cheerful nature I said, referring to a report that was current in the messes that morning,
'They say Lord Kitchener says it will be all over by September.' He looked at me very seriously
and said sternly, 'It iss not for Lord Kitchener to say when the war will be over. It iss only
for God to say that.' Presently he said, 'And what iss more, I will nefer see Skye again.'
I had tried every way in vain to lift his foreboding from him, and now I said sternly like
himself, 'It is not for you to say whether you will ever see Skye again; only God can know
that.' He moved a little, restlessly, and answered slowly, 'Yess, that iss so, but--yess, it
iss so.' Sometimes when we were asking one another that old familiar unanswerable question
I would tell the story of the man from Skye and his answer to the problem. We were very glad
to hear a few weeks later that he had been discharged as permanently unfit, and was by then
in his loved misty isle.

The Principal Chaplain visited the camp during my chaplaincy there. The Rev. Dr. Simms, who
ranks as a major-general, has charge of all chaplains other than those of the Church of England.
His tall, distinguished, unassuming figure will always stand, in the minds of those who were
under his administration, for infinite kindness, wisdom, and scrupulous fairness between all
parties. Dr. Wallace Williamson of St. Giles', Edinburgh, who was visiting the troops in France,
accompanied him. Their service on Sunday was very moving. Hearts were near the surface in those
brief days between the farewell and the battlefield. The three Scotsmen whom I knew best of
those who were at this service are all dead: one fell at Loos, one in Mesopotamia, and one
on the Somme. The oldest of them, who was an officer in a Guards battalion, could not speak
and his eyes were full of tears. There was no possibility here of the remark that one Lowlander
made to another after listening to a very celebrated London preacher: 'Aye, it was beautiful,
and he cud mak' ye see things too, whiles; but, man! there was nae logic in 't.'

It was about this time that we heard of the sinking of the Lusitania. Somehow from this moment
we knew better where we were and for what we fought. Every one's thoughts were very grim. This
was sheer naked wickedness done plainly and coldly in the sight of God and man.

III

'You can hear them now'

One broiling afternoon as I sat talking with a friend in my tent an orderly came to the door
and said to him, 'Message for you, sir.' He glanced at it. It was his orders to join his battalion
at the front. We shook hands and he went off, glad to be on the move again after hanging about
waiting so long. In five minutes the orderly was back with orders for me to proceed at once
to the 2nd London Territorial Casualty Clearing Station. I said good-bye to Adams, my servant.
No man was ever more fortunate in his batmen--Adams, a typical regular, fiercely proud of his
regiment; Campion, the London Territorial, a commercial traveller in civil life; and Munro,
the Royal Scot, who within a month or two of the outbreak of war could no longer suppress the
fighting spirit of the Royal Regiment stirring within him, and voluntarily rejoined, leaving
a wife and six children behind him. He was a foreman in the Edinburgh Tramways Company. Handy
man that he was, he could turn his hand to anything, whether it was devising a ferrule for
a broken walking stick out of the screw of a pickle bottle, or making a bleak-looking hut habitable,
or producing hot tea from nowhere, or transforming a wet-canteen marquee into a decent place
for Communion (empty tobacco boxes for table, beer barrels discreetly out of sight), or building
a pulpit out of sandbags in the corner of a roofless saloon bar.

The supply train left at a very early hour, and by devious routes reluctantly approached the
railhead. The journey took thirty hours. It was long enough to teach the lessons never to go
on a military train in France without something to read, or to drink rashly from an aluminium
cup containing hot liquid, or to rely on bully beef as a sole article of diet. Towards evening
the Irishman in charge of the train had pity and took me along--we had stopped for the thirty-fifth
time--to admire his Primus stove in full blast, and to share his excellent dinner. But (stove
or no stove) the world is divided into those who can do that sort of thing and those who cannot;
who, wrestling futilely with refractory elements, wish they had never been born.

He said that before we reached the railhead we would probably hear the sound of the guns. The
phrase is used to barrenness, even to ridicule, but the reality when first heard rings a new
emotion in your breast. The night was windless and warm, and about ten o'clock as we stood
in a wayside station the Ulsterman came up to me and said, 'Listen, you can hear them now.'
And away to the east could be heard a deep shaking sound rising and fading away in the still
air--the sound of British artillery fighting day and night against yet overwhelming odds.

Twenty hours later, after many wanderings, a friendly Field Ambulance car deposited me at the
door of the mess of the clearing station, where the arrival of a 'Scotch minister' had been
awaited with a good deal of curiosity and possibly some apprehension.

A CLEARING STATION WHEN THERE IS 'NOTHING TO REPORT'

CHAPTER III

A CLEARING STATION WHEN THERE IS 'NOTHING TO REPORT'

I

From Parapet to Base

We sometimes hear of some man who with leg smashed continues firing his machine-gun as though
nothing had happened. How is this to be explained? The answer is one that is a real comfort
to those at home. The most shattering wounds are not those which cause the greatest immediate
pain. It is as though a tree fell across telegraph wires. The wires are down, and no message,
or, at worst, a confused jangling message can come through to the brain. I have known a man
carried into an aid-post in a state of great delight because he had 'got a Blighty one.' He
lay smoking and talking, little realising that his wound was so grave that it would be many
months before he could walk again--if indeed he would ever walk with two legs. By the time
the realisation of the pain has come into full play the sufferer, in ordinary times, is in
the clearing station or, at least, the field ambulance, and has the resources of science at
his disposal.

Suppose that at three in the afternoon Jock is hit, in the front trench. 'Jock' is the name
universally given to Scottish soldiers, Lowland or Highland. It is not a melodious name, but
there it is! And it somehow expresses the Scotsman's character better than 'Tommy' does. He
cannot be carried down the communication trench because it zigzags too much: he cannot be got
round the angles. So he is taken into a dug-out and gets first aid, and a tablet of morphine
perhaps. The M.O. may possibly come up to see him, but he may be too busy in his own aid-post.
There are stretcher bearers in the trench able to bandage properly. The average 'S.B.,' by
the way, is a man from the battalion, not from the R.A.M.C. As soon as it is dark the stretcher
bearers lift him and carry him across the open to the aid-post, which is perhaps five hundred
or a thousand yards behind the firing trench, near the battalion headquarters. It is an eerie
journey, with a certain amount of risk. The brilliant Boche flares rise continually--the enemy
is sometimes called 'the Hun,' more often 'the Boche,' in more genial moments 'Fritz,' but
'the Germans' never--and light up the ground vividly. These flares are very powerful. I have
seen my own shadow cast from one when standing at the time in a camp fully five miles from
the trenches, and when you are close up you feel that every eye in 'Germany' is fixed on you.
The best thing to do is to stand quite still, for artificial light is very deceptive, and it
is hard to make out what an object is. In any case, the real danger area is 'No-Man's-Land,'
for it is on that mighty graveyard stretching from Switzerland to the sea that the enemy's
eyes are bent. The regiments used to get various kinds of flares to experiment with. We used
to laugh over an incident that occurred when a new type, a species of parachute, had been served
out. The Second-in-command, who fired it, miscalculated the strength of the wind, which was
blowing from the enemy's trench, and the flare was carried in a stately curve backwards until
it was directly over battalion headquarters. Here it hung for a long time, showing up all details
very successfully, to the C.O.'s great annoyance. Over this ground, very slowly and carefully,
the stretcher is carried. When the aid-post is reached the M.O. takes charge, assisted by the
sergeant or corporal of the R.A.M.C., whom he has always with him, and the 'casualty' is laid
alongside others in the dug-out, or cellar beneath some ruined house, that forms the aid-post
and battalion dispensary. The first stage in the journey is now over. Soon a couple of cars
creep quietly up. One by one the casualties are lifted in or climb in stiffly. The doctor who
has come up with them chats with the M.O., and the local gossip is exchanged for the wider
knowledge (or more grandiose rumours) of the field ambulance. Our Jock, who has a bullet in
his chest, is lifted in. Straps are fastened securely and tarpaulins tied. 'All aboard, sir!'
'Right! Well, so long, Hadley!' 'Cheero, Scott!' The ambulances start very cautiously, and
crawl up the road. It is in execrable condition, for work in daylight here is impossible. It
is all knocked to pieces with traffic, and frequently pitted with shell holes, and as a rule
very narrow. There is no moon, which is just as well, and no lights can be carried. The driver
feels his way through inky blackness by some sixth sense begotten of many such journeys. Every
now and then a flare lights up the broken cobbles for a few seconds. His wheels are only a
couple of feet from the mud on either side, and if he goes into that the car would be there
for hours. A little to the right a battery of 18-pounders is firing slowly and regularly, and
the shells scream over the road on their way to the enemy. A corner is turned and the road
gets better. We draw up at a building with no light showing, and R.A.M.C. orderlies come up
the steps from a cellar. This is the advanced dressing station; it collects from a brigade
front and there are two doctors at work. A large window covered with sacking opens at the level
of the ground into the cellar, and the wounded are lifted through it. Some will stay here all
night, but the most seriously hurt are sent on to the casualty clearing station five or six
miles back. Hot drinks are going and are welcome, for the injured men are trembling and sick
with shock. Two new drivers come up from their dug-out, yawning, and take over; a message has
just come in that the 'P' trenches have been 'hotted' by trench mortars and cars must go back
again at once. The ambulances move off, leaving the doctors busy, sleeves rolled up to the
elbow. The second stage in the journey has been completed.

The cars are moving much more quickly now. Lights are still burning in divisional headquarters,
but the field ambulance headquarters are dark, save for the lamp burning before the gate. An
ambulance may have two or three advanced dressing stations collecting from a divisional front.
Twin lamps on a pole, white and red, draw nearer and faintly light up two flags, the Union
Jack and the Red Cross. The Union Jack in Flanders is only seen in conjunction with the Red
Cross, or perhaps over the dead body at a funeral; unless the Commander-in-chief comes round,
when the flag is carried behind him on a lance. The cars turn at right angles into a gravelled
yard and draw up before a large door. A corporal, who has been sitting in a glass vestibule,
puts his head inside the inner door and shouts 'Stretcher bearers!' An orderly crosses quickly
to the office and reports to the orderly officer, 'Two cars with stretcher cases.' The doctor
crosses to the reception room and begins to examine the first case. The reception room is a
concert or music hall in happier days. Its stage is the dispensary, and the little room where
the performers 'make-up' is the mortuary. The doctor is joined by the sister on night duty.
Each man is examined rapidly in turn. The M.O., or the doctor at the dressing station, has
written some words about the nature of the wound on a label very like a luggage label, and
this has been tied to a button-hole. An orderly comes forward and takes down particulars: name,
number, battalion, brigade, division. Jock is rather tired of giving this information because
he has already had it taken down by his M.O., and at the dressing station. But he need not
begin to complain yet, for it will be repeated at every stopping-place. He is carried off to
another room. The third stage is over.

Jock is here a fortnight, for he is badly wounded and occupies one of the few beds that the
station boasts. One day he is borne, rather white, into the operating theatre, and after a
time is carried back, even whiter than before. He has seen less of it than any one; saw only
the white walls and the mosquito curtains; smelled the heavy odours of ether and chloroform
and antiseptics; heard faintly and more faintly the drone of an aeroplane overhead; saw also
the padre, rather white too, but determined to get accustomed to this sort of thing, in case
they should be short-handed when the great 'push' comes.

Jock cannot go by train because he could not stand the jolting, so he must wait for a barge.
He listens with evident pleasure to the description of the electric lights and fans and white
sheets and pillows. There are six sisters in the station. They are the first English women
he has seen since his last leave, and he is glad to hear there will be two on the barge. A
barge comes and goes, but no one tells Jock that. He is told the barges are always a long time
coming, which is true too. And, indeed, before the next one comes he is so much better that
it is decided he can go by train if it comes first. It does come first. 'Train in!' runs through
the wards like lightning. There are hurried good-byes, gathering together of souvenirs, wistful
eyes of those who cannot yet go, watching those who can. Cars are brought round to the side
entrance, stretchers slipped into their grooves, and the convoy is off to the station. The
long train, already half filled, lies waiting. There is a last little passage across the platform,
coming and going of bearers, the inevitable argument with the R.T.O., a warning shriek from
the engine, and the train to the base has gone.

II

'Do you think that sort of thing matters now?'

A clearing station is just what its name denotes. It clears the wounded from a large number
of field ambulances, each of which is split into several advanced dressing stations. Each of
these in turn draws from several aid-posts. All the wounded, and all the sick who get beyond
the ambulances, must pass through the station. There they are put in trim for the journey to
the base, or are sent to a convalescent depot if a week or two will see them fit for duty again.

The Church of England chaplain was as friendly and accommodating as I was anxious to be. We
made sure that one of us saw every man to speak to when he was brought in, and noted to which
ward he was taken. For the distribution of writing-paper, newspapers, and magazines, tobacco
and cigarettes, we divided the work, so that in one day each took half the number of wards,
on the next day reversing the half. In the case of serious illness or trouble we kept more
closely to our own men. We both had our store of Testaments. Of all editions supplied to the
troops that of the National Bible Society of Scotland is the best. It is the most attractive,
in its bright red binding--one gets so tired of khaki--and it contains the Psalms, so priceless
and unfailing in time of war. I think it a pity that they are in the metrical rather than the
prose form. On the other hand, an officer once told me he found it impossible to settle to
read the Bible. His experience was that a booklet of familiar hymns was of most spiritual value
to him. He would pull it out in his dug-out and read a verse, and then put it back again. On
Sundays we held our morning services separately, in the reception room at different hours.
If it was possible there might be one or two quiet services in the wards as well. Religion
and science are sometimes supposed to be hostile to one another. I must say this, and say it
gratefully--I always found doctors sympathetic, helpful, and considerate, no men more so, in
fact, none could have been more entirely friendly. They are not lovers of creeds, but they
are devoted servants of humanity, and singularly responsive to any practical desire to be of
help. In the evening we held a united service. When the Presbyterian gave the address the service
was Anglican, and next Sunday the service would be Presbyterian and the Church of England chaplain
spoke. We took our funerals to that so quickly growing cemetery with its six hundred little
wooden crosses, separately, though up the road those from the other clearing station were taken
by each chaplain on alternate days, irrespective of denomination. We dispensed the Sacrament
of the Lord's Supper to our own people, using the beautiful little Communion set issued by
the War Office, and having as Table a stretcher covered with a white cloth and set on trestles.

The drawing power of nationality is immense in the field. It is far more emphatic and real
than the sense of particular church connection. Even men very loyal to their own branch of
the Presbyterian Church, for example, lay little emphasis on that in their minds. They delight
in meeting a Scots doctor or Scots padre. He understands all the twined fibres of tradition
and training that go to make up their character. Every man, too, likes to worship according
to the forms that he is familiar with. But Church of Scotland, or United Free Church of Scotland,
and so on, is all very much the same to him. I am speaking of Christian men, of men quite aware
of the historical situation. There grows upon a man in the field a deeper love for his brother
Scot, so profound a sense of essential oneness in tradition, in history, in character, in faith,
that he comes to look forward eagerly, passionately, to a blessed day of complete reconciliation.

'Do you think that sort of thing matters now, Padre?' whispered a boy who was desperately wounded,
his skeleton hand picking restlessly at the counterpane--a fine time for all our sound arguments!
'That sort of thing' does matter, of course, but then what could matter save to rest wearily
in the Everlasting Arms. I cannot believe that any one who has knelt beside life after life
passing forth in weariness and pain, cut short so untimely, far from mothers' hands that would
have ministered love to them as they lay, and who has listened to the broken words of trust,
will ever allow his vision of the fundamental union of those who are resting in the Eternal
Love of God in Christ to be overshadowed by lesser truths.

III

The Name of Jesus

There are two periods in a soldier's life when he is especially alert to the appeal of religion.
One, as we have seen, is just after enlisting; the other is after he has been wounded. A clearing
station is the first resting-place he has. He has had a terrible shaking, seen his chum killed
perhaps, taken part in savagery let loose. He is often all broken up, seeking again for a foundation.
The difficulty is that his stay is so short, as a rule only a few days. Our record patient
was poor Burke, an Irishman from an Irish regiment. He had been wounded when out with a wiring
party which scattered under machine-gun fire. He crawled into a Jack Johnson hole and lay there
out of sight of either side, between the trenches, for eight days and eight nights. He had
a little biscuit and a water bottle, nothing more. Shells screamed overhead or burst near,
and bullets whistled backwards and forwards over the shell-hole. There were dead men near in
all stages of decay. When he was discovered by a patrol he had lain there for over two hundred
hours, and he was not insane. We speak lightly of 'more dead than alive.' He was literally
that when he was brought in. Gangrene had set in long ago, and his condition was beyond description.
Surgeon-generals and consulting surgeons came long distances to see him, an unparalleled example
of the tenacity of human life. He lingered by a thread for many weeks, sometimes a little better,
more often shockingly ill; but at last, six weeks after admission, it was decided he could
be moved. The whole station came to say good-bye to old Burke, and all who could went to see
him lowered gently by the lift into the barge. Later, we had letters to say that he had survived
the amputation of his leg, and was slowly recovering. But that was the longest period that
any patient stayed with us. Short as the time generally was, however, it was sometimes long
enough to become very intimate, since both were so ready to meet. There is not, and never has
been a religious revival, in the usual sense of the term, on the Flanders front, and I am afraid
it is true that modern war knocks and smashes any faith he ever had out of many a man. Yet
in a hospital there is much ground for believing that shining qualities which amid the refinements
of civilisation are often absent--staunch, and even tender comradeship, readiness to judge
kindly if judge at all, resolute endurance, and absence of self-seeking, so typical of our
fighting men--have their root in a genuine religious experience more often than is, in the
battalions, immediately evident. It has been my experience, again and again, that with dying
men who have sunk into the last lethargy, irresponsive to every other word, the Name of Jesus
still can penetrate and arouse. The hurried breathing becomes for a moment regular, or the
eyelids flicker, or the hand faintly returns the pressure. I have scarcely ever known this
to fail though all other communication had stopped. It is surely very significant and moving.

THE AFTERMATH OF LOOS

CHAPTER IV

THE AFTERMATH OF LOOS

I

The Flavour of Victory

The jolliest man in the field is the man who, so to say, has been safely wounded, that is,
whose wound is serious enough to take him right down the line, with a good prospect of crossing
to Blighty, but not so serious as to cause anxiety. I never met so hilarious a crowd as the
first batch of wounded from the fighting of 25th September 1915. We had been prepared for a
'rush.' The growling of the guns had for days past been growing deeper and more extended. It
is, as a matter of fact, impossible to keep a future offensive concealed. The precise time
and place may be unknown, but the gathering together of men, the piling up of ammunition, and
the necessary preparations for great numbers of wounded, advertise inevitably that something
is afoot. The ranks are not slow to read the signs of the times: they say, for example, that
an inspection by the divisional-general can only mean one thing. How much crosses to the other
side it is hard to say, but the local inhabitants know all that is common talk, and sometimes
a great deal more. They have eyes in their heads; they can see practice charges being carried
through, and note which regiments carry battle-marks on their uniforms; and the little shops
and estaminets are just soldiers' clubs where gossip is 'swapped' as freely as in the London
west-end clubs, and unfortunately, is much better informed. A woman working on a farm once
told me to what part of the line a certain division was going on returning from rest, and she
gave a date. The commanding officers of the battalions concerned knew nothing of it, and indeed
a quite contrary rumour was in circulation, but time proved the old woman to be right.

The Loos offensive was no exception, and for many days anxious thoughts and prayers had filled
our hearts. We went from hope to despondency, and back to hope again. I dare say the talk round
the mess table was very foolish. Compared with the earlier days of the war the country seemed
full of men, and we heard stories of great accumulation of ammunition. Anything seemed possible.

By nine o'clock on the morning of the 25th the convoys were coming in, and the wounded streamed
into the reception room. They were 'walking cases,' men who had been wounded in the early part
of the attack and, able to walk, had made their way on foot to the regimental aid-post. All
had been going well when they left. They were bubbling over with good spirits and excitement.
Three--four--no, five lines of trenches had been taken and 'the Boche was on the run.' They
joked and laughed and slapped one another on the back, and indeed this jovial crowd presented
an extraordinary appearance, caked and plastered with mud, with tunics ripped and blood-stained,
with German helmets, black or grey, stuck on the back of their heads, and amazing souvenirs
'for the wife.' One man with a rather guilty glance round produced for my private inspection
from under his coat an enormous silver crucifix about a foot long. He found it in a German
officer's dug-out, but probably it came originally from some ruined French chapel. All souvenirs
taken from dead enemies are loathsome to me. It is merciful that so many people have no imagination.
I have never been able to understand, either, the carrying home of bits of shell and mementoes
of that kind. Any memento of these unspeakable scenes of bloodshed is repulsive. Yet the British
soldier is as chivalrous as he is brave. He speaks terrible words about what he will do to
his foes, but when they are beaten and in his power he can never carry it through. This was
very striking when you consider that until quite recently the German was 'top-dog' and how
much our men had suffered at his hands. But once the fight is over he is ready to regard their
individual account as settled. I remember so well one fire-eating officer who was going to
teach any prisoners that came into his hands what British sternness meant. In due course twenty
wounded Prussians came in. He was discovered next day actually distributing cigarettes to them.
Now we must recollect that the British Tommy is not a class apart; he is simply the 'man in
the street,' the people. Sometimes there is savage bitterness, not without good reason, and
frequently the sullen or frightened temper of the prisoners made friendliness difficult, but
Tommy--and by that name I mean the British citizen under arms--does not long nourish grudges
when the price has been paid. He is essentially chivalrous, and even to his enemy, when the
passion of fighting or the strain of watchfulness is past, he is incurably kind.

An atmosphere of hope and cheerfulness pervaded the clearing station this first morning of
the 'great offensive.' Passing through a ward I said to the nurse, 'Well, sister, everything
seems to be going splendidly.' She looked up sombrely from the wound she was dressing and replied,
'So they said in the first hours of Neuve Chapelle.' I was chilled by what she said and felt
angry with her.

II

Doubts and Fears

As the day wore on the news was not so good. The Meerut Division, which had delivered the containing
attack in front of us on the Moulin du Pietre, was where it had been before it attacked, so
the wounded said, with the exception of some units, notably Leicesters and Black Watch, who
had apparently disappeared. Perhaps all that had been intended had been achieved. After all,
the real battle--none could be more real and more costly to those taking part in it than a
containing attack, forlorn hope as it often is--the decisive battle was further south at Loos.
But the changed mood of the wounded now coming in was noticeable. Our fighting men hate to
be beaten, and the story was of confusion and lack of support. Our own gas, too, had lingered
on the ground and then drifted back on our own trenches. A young German student who was brought
in wounded admitted the gallantry of the first rush, but he said, 'We always understood those
trenches could be rushed, but we also know that they cannot be held on so small a front. They
are commanded on either side.' In all seven hundred wounded and gassed were brought in from
the British regiments of this division, and there was much work to be done.

Sunday was a bright, warm day, and in the afternoon we gathered all who could walk to a service
in the green meadow behind the operating theatre. (There, too, they were busy enough, God knows.)
The men came very willingly. I spoke a few words from the text 'Blessed are the peacemakers,'
for that benediction was meant also for those lads who had just struck so brave a blow for
a decent world. A gunner said afterwards, 'Do you know, I have only heard two sermons since
I came out ten months ago. The other was by the Bishop of London, and he took the same text!'
It is, as a matter of fact, very difficult to serve the gunners properly; they were so scattered
in little groups. It was very peaceful that Sunday afternoon--no sign of war anywhere, except
the maimed results of it--as those men remembered with tears those whom it had 'pleased Almighty
God to take out of this transitory world into His mercy.'

Every wounded man has a letter to write or to have written for him, and it was essential that
since the people at home knew there was heavy fighting going on all messages should be sent
off at once. This is one of the chaplain's voluntary tasks, and we were kept close to it every
afternoon for some weeks after the offensive began. For some time the number of letters was
about four hundred every day. A number of men had written farewell letters--very moving they
seemed, but I did not think it part of my duty to look too closely at these. They had addressed
them and then put them in their pockets, hoping that if they were killed they might be discovered.
Some had been finished just before the order to go over the parapet. But the curious thing
was that these were sent home, with a few words in a covering note saying they were alive and
well, as a sort of keepsake. In those written after arrival in hospital a sense of gratitude
to God was very frequent, and a great longing for home and the children. Some strange phrases
were used: a mother would be addressed as 'Dear old face,' or simply 'Old face.' But poets
used to write verses to their mistresses' eyebrows, and why not a letter to a mother's face?

The German prisoners sent a message asking if they might speak with the Hauptmann-Pfarrer.
They besought me to send word to their relatives that they were safe. I took the full particulars
and promised to ask the Foreign Office to forward, but could not guarantee the messages getting
through, as their government was behaving very badly over the matter. They were all very anxious
that I should be sure and say their wounds were slight (leicht).

Next day came urgent orders that all wounded were to be evacuated who could possibly be moved.
So far as we had heard events seemed to be moving fairly well at Loos, but there were some
ugly rumours and the atmosphere was one of great uneasiness. After dinner that evening the
commanding officer, Major Frankau, took me aside, and asked me not to go to bed as they would
need every available pair of hands throughout the night.

III

Our Share of the Fifty Thousand

It was ten o'clock when the first cars came crunching into the station yard, and the convoys
arrived one after another until five in the morning. Then, as we could take in no more, the
stream was diverted to the other clearing station up the road. Before the war the deep hoot
of a car always seemed to say: 'Here am I, rich and rotund, rolling comfortably on my way;
I have laid up much goods and can take mine ease'; but after that night it had another meaning:
'Slowly, tenderly, oh! be pitiful. I am broken and in pain,' as the cars crept along over the
uneven roads. These were our share of the wounded from Loos, the overflow of serious 'stretcher
cases' who could not be taken in at the already overworked stations immediately behind their
own front. Many had been lying on the battlefield many hours. They were for the most part from
the 15th (Scottish) Division and the 47th (London) Division. Both had made a deathless name.
The former got further forward than any other, and paid the penalty with over six thousand
casualties. All this night the rain fell in torrents. It streamed from the tops and sides of
the ambulances, it lashed the yard till it rose in a fine spray; the lamps shone on wetness
everywhere--the dripping, anxious faces of the drivers, the pallid faces of the wounded, eyes
staring over their drenched brown blankets, eyes puzzled in their pain and distress, like those
of hunted animals; and the reception room was filled with the choking odours of steaming dirty
blankets and uniforms, of drying human bodies and of wounds and mortality. As each ambulance
arrived the stretchers, their occupants for the most part silent, were drawn gently out and
carried into the reception hall and laid upon the floor. At once each man--the nature of whose
wounds permitted it--was given a cup of hot tea or of cold water, and a cigarette. Two by two
they were lifted on to the trestles, and examined and dressed by the surgeons. Their fortitude
was, as one of the surgeons said to me, uncanny. It was supernatural. I could not have believed
what could be endured without complaint, often without even a word to express the horrid pain,
unless I had seen it. Amid all that battered, bleeding, shattered flesh and bone, the human
spirit showed itself a very splendid thing that night. The reception room at last filled to
overflowing and could not be emptied. All the wards and lofts and tents were crammed. By the
time the other station was filled the two had taken in three thousand men. They remained with
us for a week, because the hospital trains were too busy behind Loos to come our way. Every
day every man had to have his wounds dressed. Some were covered with wounds; many of the wounds
were dangerous, all were painful; and gas gangrene, which the surgeon so hates to see, had
to be fought again and again. The medical staff, seven in number, worked on day after day,
and night after night, skilfully, tenderly, ruthlessly. There were also a great many operations,
and scores of difficult critical decisions.

As we stepped out from among the blanketed forms I thought bitterly of the 'glory' of war.
Yet if there was any glory in war this was it. It was here, in this patient suffering and obedience.
These men might well glory in their infirmities. This was heroism, the real thing, the spirit
rising to incredible heights of patient endurance in the foreseen possible result of positive
action for an ideal. The reaction from battle is overwhelming. Passions that the civilised
man simply does not know, so colourless is his experience of them in ordinary days, are let
loose, anger and terror and horror and lust to kill. So for a while, as nearly always happens,
even wounds lost their power to pain in the sleep of bottomless exhaustion. Those who could
not sleep were drugged with morphine. The moaning never stopped, but rose and fell and rose
again. It shook my heart. We turned from the ashen faces and went out into the grey morning
light. Everything seemed very grey. A mist was drawing up slowly from the sluggish Lys, and
we wondered as we went shivering through it across the soaked grass what was happening beyond
it over there at Loos. What most would call us
attention was his unique touch of beautiful bows for half-covered with black hood lace, ribbons
and braids with white ribbons pinned with massive plates of gold and silver imitation fins and scales,
jewelry that is not dissimilar to that seen after the headdress the countrywomen of Holland,
especially on the side of Rotterdam. Did I tell you these details lack of interest? It is quite
possible, and the scene HOWEVER we recorded deep in the memory. There was so much candor, both
natural and poetry in this church open and filled colorful ornaments, - the cemetery, yard,
defended more by pity for the humble common than covered with garlands around, - the house-villa,
all transparent (with more windows than walls) and wrapped in a blanket of flowers and vegetables
- and this group of women single, original type, waiting for a bell to enter the church to pray!
The scene alone was a revelation full of beliefs, customs, habits, race and the virtues of the countryside
that modest population.

       * * * * *

It was five o'clock when we left the next day Lungern in a lightweight stroller, valleys bordering
on Lungern, Sachseln and Sarnen. The excursion to across the Sachseln town is really lovely.
The site (which scarcely has about 1.500 residents) is literally hidden at the foot of a magnificent
mountain, a vast and gorgeous forest fruit trees, full of perfumes and carpeted with hay and
colorful flowers. The groups of apple, pear and plum trees alternate with cherry, walnut and
other trees confusion in the funniest. Thus, the district is literally a Verjel, and its inhabitants
live among flowers, fruits and scented vaults. I doubt that judges have office there. The crime
must be unknown in the village of humble gardeners, born between flowers.

Lake Sarnen, making abstraction of the surrounding marshes, is a soft and serene. Its shores are confused
about the valley, the road passes and brushing their murmuring sleepy waves. On the opposite side are
well-cultivated plains, and two or three villages similar to that of Sachseln. The length of the
lake does not exceed 6.366 meters, to 1.916 wide and 70 deep; and
the navigation is done in little boats of simple construction.

Sarnen, which has just over 3,400 residents, is climbing partly on the side of a mountain, resting
softly on both banks of the Aa and surrounded by beautiful trees. The style of this small town
is so original and funny, and noting its simplicity of form no one would think that it is in
the capital of a sovereign Sitado. But this simplicity is understood with sympathy, knowing
that the double city of Unterwalden is not nothing but a humble and happy confederation of districts
that are all democratic republics. Unterwalden, by their smallness, not worth a relationship
stopped, as a political body; but some of its characteristic institutions
deserves to be cited as a model and to be respected by the philosophy
and good sense of its citizens.

The population of Nidwalden, race, or rather early Germanic speaking exclusively German (very flawed)
and has scarcely 24.960 individuals, distributed in 13 parishes, which correspond to 7 and
6 to Nidwalden Obwalden. Since the year of 1150 established the division State in two separate government
entities, with one capital in Sarnen and the other in Stanz. Unterwalden was one of the three
confederates who formed the League of William Tell to be a Swiss citizen, and his brave soldiers
took part in all the battles for independence. The Canton as a whole contains only natural
forests, Verjel meadows and, being almost completely void of cereal cultivation and manufacturing.
Thus, their yields are reduced to cutting of timber, crops of fruit (pears, apples, cherries, plums,
peaches, apricots and walnuts), the extraction of citron (kirchenwasser) exquisite walnut oil
and honey, and the manufacture of cheese, all of which yield relatively
large values, as well as the offspring of cattle.

Each of the parishes as a democratic, independent self-government and governed by assemblies
of all citizens, and elected officials for services permanent. Each half-canton has its own
citizens, and only have the common suffrage a hundred primitive patrician families were entitled
before the division of State. The institutions of the two half-cantons or political twins are
so similar that enough to indicate one of them to the whole idea. Each year all meet in Assembly
active citizens of the Confederation of parishes [24] in order to discuss and vote laws and budgets,
approve the accounts of the administration, appoint, if appropriate, the representatives to be
included in the legislative bodies of the Confederation Swiss, and choose the high magistrates
of the common administration of small confederation. The House has no initiative in legislation
and is reduced to approve or reject which offers the Executive. This is composed of 12 or 14 judges
called Proposed (Vorgesetzten), chaired by the Landammann (Man who rules the country), kind of President
elected annually by the Assembly or Landsgemeinde. The Proposed are immovable.

[24] More than a quarter of the inhabitants are citizens.

Obwalden has about 13.400 inhabitants and Nidwalden the rest. Citizenship is acquired at the
age of 20 years.

The most beautiful feature of these two confederations microscopic living so happily its pure democracy
is the institution on the death penalty. This can not be pronounced or ordered, by great coincidence
occurs when a capital crime, but by a grand jury composed permanent judges and all citizens
over 30 years (except the clergy) who are not relatives of the parties and may be sworn. After
the principle of sanctity of life, worth more than all, nothing is as beautiful as this recognition
the principle of social family, whereby it is allowed to take the life one of its members
without the whole community of their vote and consents. It is strange that a statelet microscopic
lost between the buttresses and lakes of the Alps, you are giving
lessons to be called civilized world about the fraternal solidarity
of men and rights of human life!

Do not forget to note that the Executive is assisted in each half-canton by a grand Council of Representatives,
and the superior court of each group is also a federal set of judges or legal representatives
of the parishes.

Thus, the federal idea is shown in all entities, from the confederation of individuals to
the districts as shown later in the association of sovereign cantons.

In Alpnach port at the foot of Mount Pilatus, we embarked on board a steam cross the lake of Four
Cantons in the direction of Lucerne.

To our right we saw Stanz, asleep in his graceful valley, and Lake unfolding before our eyes haunted
her waves reverberant, its magnificent mountains and a panorama of the most poetic and varied
forms evoked in all its sites a thousand memories of the heroic times of Switzerland.

Almost in the center of Swiss territory in the region where it ends in a way the mountainous
area and starts the undulating or very rough, there is a relatively hoya considerable, taking on the river
Reuss hydrographic center offers to the eye of the traveler the more varied and perhaps the
most beautiful panorama of this natural wonderland.

This basin, with irregular shapes and less enclosed on all sides to the north, is determined
by numerous buttresses the Alps shed on the plains in many different directions, and a whole
produces the juxtaposition of numerous valleys, very narrow and deep, spinning all over the central
valley of the Reuss river, rising in the heights of the Furka, a
short distance from the source of the Rhone, runs absolutely opposite
direction and goes from south to north, to carry its waters into the
Rhine, misdiagnosed as Aar and the Limmat.

The sinus or widening of the Reuss in the bottom of a huge basin perpendicular rocks, is what
is the lake of Four Cantons (Fri-Waldstatt-See), the most irregular and, without dispute,
the most curious is how Switzerland.

At around that lake basin and within the basin indicated are, in whole or in hand, the four
corners that give your name to the lake: the O. that of Nidwalden; to S. the of Uri, the E.
that of Schwyz, and N. that of Luzern or Lucerne, - surrounded by Berne, Glarus, Zug, Aargau,
etc.

Thus, the four corners are the most picturesque cluster of steep hills and steep (Some snow), narrow
and smiling valleys, hills and streams, forests, meadows and Verjel, which are stacked or alternated
around the lake to multiple and capricious as the thousand varied forms a vast semi-wilderness park
and around semi-artificial an enormous pool of granite murmuring
waves and blue transparent.

If the topography and the community of interests, patriotic efforts, language, religion, race and
traditions, have created a close fellowship among the four or five cantons rather above, the conformation
of its admirable Lake states, with no less evidence that the topography, that those people were
born destined to the social community.

In fact, if you look at the strange configuration of the entire lake, the opposite direction
its bays and five major rivers or streams drain into the basin common
granite, is recognized in a very distant time, but the current did
not exist a series of five or six lakes, linked together by rivers
and stretching that determined confounded all the Lucerne Basin.

Thus, having its main channel flow and in the Reuss, the total lake (which must have formed
by natural levees breaking and the widening more or less slow tributary channels) is: to the
east, the waters of Muottas, central stream the canton of Schwyz, the west, on the Isenthal,
the lower or middle Aa city of Nidwalden, and higher Aa, which, as I said, collects the waters
of the canton of Obwalden half.

The lake as a whole has the irregular shape of some sort of a Latin cross with the shaft broken
down, but lying in the opposite direction. The broken foot is a small basin Altorf for the valley,
particularly called Lake of Uri, and fed only by the waters of the Reuss and Isenthal. The central
body of the cross is determined the other basin of a very different direction, almost enclosed by
two narrow, which is named Buochs ​​particular lake, and get at its upper end Muottas waters,
and towards the N.-O. Aa the bottom. Below opens another watershed, one of the beams a magnificent
four-star gulfs, is both the principle of the body or trunk the large cross. There the waters
are divided into four receptacles quite similar: on the right foot tour of the magnificent mountain
of Rigi or Righi, bearing at its apex to Küssnach; on the left, which
is another arm of the cross, is directed towards the foot of the colossal
mass of Pilate, and is divided into two smaller bays, one of which
is Lake Alpnach, in short, that determines the head of the cross takes
its direction towards Lucerne with the unique name of Lake Lucerne,
is making its way through the midst of beautiful, rolling hills, dividing
the city into two parts, and restore the river Reuss.

This imperfect and pale description will give some idea of ​​the singular caprice or the multiplicity
forms the lake of Four Cantons, the most interesting of all of Switzerland for appearance and composition
geological basins that are chained, and the most poetic Also, because of the performances offered
and the relatively evokes memories to the history of the Confederation Considered in full,
the lake has an elevation from 438 to 450 meters above sea level, and measured at its maximum
length 38.530 meters, 15.100 wide and 360 deep. The various directions of the valleys or the works
that are incline toward the lake basin determines the most diverse and even opposing wind currents,
which together with the steep, rocky composition throughout the bed,
produces the most violent storms, which are repeated frequently and
sometimes suddenly.

Lucerne is, no doubt, by their situation and the gorgeous countryside surrounding it, one of the
funniest cities in Switzerland, or at least of that delay on lake margins. Thus, a whole or general
appearance, whether you look at it from the lake, whether it contemplates from some eminence,
is wonderfully poetic and cheerful. HOWEVER, within, apart some curious details, Lucerne does not
correspond to their appearance or to the idea that their reputation makes him conceive in advance
of the traveler. The facade does not match at all with interior é of the city. When we arrived
on board the steamer which took us from eleven o'clock Alpenach in the morning, under a sky
full of splendor glistened in the beam almost perpendicular the sun the lake and the river,
docks and bridges, great and beautiful modern buildings dominate a wide boardwalk square, the towers
of the cathedral and other churches, and numerous towers and bastions of feudal crenellated walls that
surround the city. This set was really seductive, and its beauty is completed with the magnificence
of the scenery round about, overcrowding of beautiful rolling hills
covered with orchards and gardens dotted with villas and picturesque
country houses in dispersion.

But to penetrate into the city, just behind the first row of buildings overlooking the lake,
everything changed in appearance. Wherever there are filth in the streets, Dresses sad, neglected
and without character, winding streets, ugly and unpleasant, and looking houses with much sympathy.
Fortunately, if the dirt and waste increases sorrow of those streets, industrial and commercial
movement gives them some animation of another kind. The curious traveler stops to look at public
sources of traditional forms and features (perhaps the most original of all those seen in Switzerland),
and bridges cast Reuss on to join the two parts of the city, nearly all of wood, covered and
decorated with the most curious altarpieces. Each country is manifested in its monuments in
Switzerland, the country the pure and abundant waters, has lavished
on all those sources commemorative cities national traditions, the
forms are so characteristic.

Lucerne is not remarkable for any fine art, industrial or literary, or their monuments or public
buildings. Their unique wooden bridges, so characteristic of Switzerland, as public sources
of stone topped by figures of warriors or animals, curious that are not in fact deserve the name
of monuments. The most beautiful building in the city, located on the S.-O., to the left of
the river, is the former Jesuit College (now Lycée cantonal become), and that superiority is further
evidence of that everywhere the Society of Jesus has made the best batch. Of the four bridges
of Lucerne the most notable are: the Hof, measuring 360 meters long and crosses the apex of the lake,
offers a wonderful view over the mountains, and is lined inside with 238 bad pictures painted
in oils representing biblical passages, and the Kapell, which dominates the point the lake becomes
a river, is 324 meters and contains 154 pictures of very old date represent events in the history
of Switzerland and the life and times of the two patron saints of the city, for the curious
who are these old bridges is to be welcomed the resolution of demolish the city to establish
piers and docks along the banks of river, and replace them with more
solid and elegant buildings.

Of all the sights of Lucerne, which draws more attention from passers travelers The monument is dedicated,
out of town, to the memory of Swiss soldiers who died the service of Louis XVI on the famous
day of August 10, 1792, fighting against the people Paris. The monument consists of a huge lion
allegorical (9 meters long and 6 height) carved in the bottom of a sort of cave dug into a large
boulder. A waterfall that jumps over the lion, falling into a pond, a nearby chapel, a smart
house within which sales are a thousand curiosities, and flags of green surrounding the monument,
complete the picture funny. There we found a keeper in uniform of the Swiss of Louis XVI, securing
with much aplomb to three English ladies he had fought like a lion in the usual day of August
10, escaped by a miracle. Although the illustrious fighter having stated no more than sixty
years, and was very knowledgeable in point of French geography, that did not prevent a serious
citizen "perfidious Albion" were eagerly collecting the reminiscences of the Swiss and carefully
writing them a portfolio of travel, as news of the first order.

If the naive credulity of the island made us smile, I confess I did not understand the pride that
the citizens of Lucerne maintain this strange monument, which to my eyes was but a pattern
of infamy, or at least a sad reminiscence. Instead of devoting monuments to the memory of the degradation
of the noble and free people of Switzerland, citizens the Confederation should make every effort
to condemn to oblivion the flamboyant mercenary which for centuries has made Switzerland a hotbed
of soldiers of the most odious tyranny and the most corrupt and corrupting governments. If in
the last ten years has Swiss mercenaries seen looting Peruza, as soldiers of the Pope and defending
atrocities the cause of the Bourbons of Naples, it must be remembered also, in honor of radicalism
Swiss, the assemblies and the government of the Confederation have taken action at this time
strong to end the mercenaries. Thanks to the incomparable Garibaldi and to Gialdini and other
general Italian, Swiss soldiers have disappeared from southern Italy; and between the major results
of the Italian revolution will not be one of the less significant the replacement of the heroic
and selfless volunteer (an instrument of emancipation and symbol the brotherhood of the people)
instead of a mercenary from another era, an instrument of oppression
and a symbol of human degradation.

       

* * * * *

Lucerne, mainly Catholic city, has about 11.500 inhabitants, which in 1857 only 317 were Protestants.
Thanks to steam navigation of the lake, in relation to the road leading to Italy by the Saint-Gothard,
and the recent railroad that has been rapid communication with Bern and railways in western and
northern Switzerland, Lucerne begins to have considerable commercial importance, though perhaps
partly lose it when Italy and Switzerland have direct and prompt communication. Lucerne industry
is reduced to some tissues cotton, flax and hemp and articles of hosiery, and factories are
very subordinate. Produce also straw hats and other items of little importance. For the rest, Lucerne
is faithful general thought (the result of the emulation system that generates the federal independence)
that inspires so careful to the Swiss interest in training establishments and charities. The
isolation of nature had been to the Swiss villages, before the invention modern industry in the field
of communications, had made them understand that they should Take full force themselves. Therefore,
it has been so deep and general feeling in Switzerland fraternity, which is manifested in the numerous
hospitals, hospices and other facilities similar. As to the education, emulation, on the one hand,
sustained for autonomy social policy and the cantons, and second, the progress of democratic
ideas and institutions after 1798, and 1848 in particular, have favored
the multiplication of institutions intended to propagate the knowledge
of all kinds in the masses.

I will note here, subject to subsequent observations, some curious contrasts that attentive
traveler easily seen in the cities of Switzerland. In no country are so appropriate comparisons
as in Switzerland, where a small but highly varied territory coexist Confederate several very
different races, with different religions, practices, arts, and institutions very different.
Without wishing in any way infer general rules in favor or against any religion, I can say that without any
notable exception, I have observed in all cities Switzerland a clear contrast with respect to
the mercenary, the messiness, the situation of the establishments and customs, and public instruction
of the masses. The Protestant cantons supplied to an insignificant number of despots, as mercenaries,
the vast Most or almost all of these ever left the Catholic cantons. Does the Protestantism is
favorable to liberty and maintains and promotes a sense of dignity personal? I think so, judging from
the facts I have observed in many European states, corresponding
to different races and religions.

As for the taste or instinct for cleanliness and decency, I have seen in Switzerland (and later I will
note the same for other countries) the contrast between twelve of the capital of counties that
I visited. In the series of cities we visited from Geneva to Schaffhausen, through Lausanne,
Neuchâtel, Fribourg, Bern, Lucerne, Altorf, Zug and district in Zurich, and from Saint-Gall to Basel,
we have seen, however, the alternation where are these cities, because of their religious beliefs,
this difference: in Geneva, Lausanne, Neuchâtel, Bern, district in Zurich, St. Gallen, Basel
and Schaffhausen, Protestant cities, decency, cleanliness and care in all public affairs, in Fribourg,
Lucerne and Zug Altorf, slovenliness, carelessness on the masses and streets, lack or shortage of
taste. The same contrast offered by the Swiss cities regarding a popular instruction, to the
situation of the public and to the demonstrations activity and progress as summarized in the customs,
industry and institutions whatever the races subject to observation. In the central region
of Switzerland, dominating perfectly homogeneous territory in its appearance, its products,
etc., and favored by an equal autonomy, I have seen a string of cities
from Lake Geneva to the Rhine linked in this order: Geneva, Lausanne,
Neuchâtel, Fribourg, Bern, Lucerne, Zug, Zurich. But the British soldier
hates manoeuvres and marches and drills and inspections. He would rather be left in peace in
his trenches, in a 'quiet' part of the line at least, than bothered about those things. Movement,
too, has an exhilarating effect on him, and so when orders come to go back into action he tramps
off with remarkable goodwill. I remember one battalion of Royal Welsh Fusiliers, suddenly rushed
up from rest, pulled out of the station singing a song of which the refrain is something like
'Ai, ai! Vot a game it is!' at the top of their voices. And it really is by no means a game.
As the Colonel used to say (very moderately), 'Life out here is not all joy!'

One November evening I was picking my way cautiously through the mud camp near Reninghelst,
and hearing the tune of a famous hymn, drew near to listen, for Jock sometimes sings to hymn
tunes words that certainly never appeared in any hymn-book, and I wanted to make sure that
it was the greatest hymn in the English language which was being sung. It was a quiet night.
Now and again a heavy gun fired a round, and infrequently, on a gentle wind blowing from the
trenches, was borne the rattle of a machine-gun. From all the camp arose the subdued confused
noise of an army settling to rest for the night. Some tents were in darkness, in others a candle
burned, and here and there braziers still glowed redly. It was from one of the lighted tents
that the singing came, each part being taken, and a sweet clear tenor voice leading. Its centre
received a good deal of attention from enemy artillery, but it offered two attractions which
brought in officers from divisions all around. After all, to men accustomed to living in the
trenches, the atmosphere was one of almost Sabbath peace. The hall where 'The Fancies' made
much of the humours of trench life to uproariously delighted audiences was crowded out night
after night. You could not find anywhere greater zest and enjoyment. The striking comradeship
of soldiering, the common experience of audience and actors, and the abandonment of all thought
for the morrow, gave that impression of cheerful carelessness the root of which is not happiness
but the conviction that the future is so uncertain and the possibilities so dreadful that he
is wise who lives for the hour only, even as the hour may snatch life from him. I thought I
knew the head in front of me, and, leaning forward, saw it was my brother-in-law. It has always
struck me as quaint that he, who had been with his battery for a year and a half, and I, who
had been out for nine months, should have met again under such circumstances. I had pictured
a stricken field and much coolness exhibited in an admittedly dramatic moment--something in
line with Stanley's 'Dr. Livingstone, I presume.' It was comforting to find it otherwise, but,
as Smee says in Peter Pan, it was 'galling too.' First when looking into a shop window, and
now in a concert hall, in all these months of war! We said, 'Not a bad show, is it?' 'Not half
bad.' But there have been some strange meetings in this war. A private in our battalion discovered
his son, a boy of seventeen, in a new draft which had just come up to the line. He had run
away from home and been lost to sight. The father set matters on a proper footing by thrashing
his son there and then in the front trench!

War was not very far off after all. Two days later we were having lunch in the comfortable
warm restaurant which is this tedious town's other attraction. We drank our coffee to the accompaniment
of the nasty sound of arriving shells. Every time a shell screamed towards us the stout lady
behind the counter dropped on hands and knees, emerging flushed and trembling after each had
burst. We were rather amused; but when we went out and round the corner of the street, the
body of a man was being swiftly carried away wrapped in a brown blanket. Forty soldiers, it
was said, had been killed and wounded. Distracted women stood in little groups in the passages
of the houses, and there was much blood in the gutters.

Only a country invaded by the enemy drinks to its dregs the cup of war, but the narrow belt
a few miles behind the friendly army's trenches enjoys great prosperity. The love of home or
the love of money keeps the population in many places where it would be better away. One beautiful
spring day I took shelter behind a farmhouse in the Hallebast-Vierstraat area until some shelling
on the path ahead had died down. The farmer's wife came out and we got into conversation. A
rise in the ground gave some shelter from the German lines, but she told me that any movement
on horseback was immediately sniped with whizbangs. The day before all her cows had been killed
by shell-fire in the paddock behind the farmhouse, but if she and her elderly husband let their
land go out of cultivation, how were they to live, and if they left, where could they go? When
high-explosives blew great holes in their sown land they just filled in the holes and ploughed
and sowed the place over again. The settled sadness of her face and voice haunts me still.
Others, however, stay in danger because they are making so much money. Several shopkeepers
in this town admitted they had never known such prosperity. The estaminets make enormous profits
from the sale of very weak beer. A friend of mine, having drawn battalion pay in notes of too
large amounts, was told to return to the paymaster and draw it in smaller sums. He found the
office closed, and turned into a little village shop to see if they could change a part of
it. To his amazement they changed the whole of it from the till. The total amount was ten thousand
francs. But how many Belgians have lost their all?

Our billets were clean and very airy. For some reason, though all furniture had been removed,
the presses, which were all open, were full of beautiful bed and table linen. It was very tempting,
but fortunately we resisted the temptation. The morning after we arrived, about seven o'clock,
a disturbance arose below. Angry women's voices were heard in altercation with the servants,
there were hurried footsteps on the stair, and a moment later our door was thrust violently
open. Two strapping Belgian women strode in and demanded answers to many questions. We adopted
our friend the Major's plan, and feigned to know even less French than we did. The first, built in four months in 1834 and undertaken by a private company, consists of two
main cables of iron, supported at the ends against beautiful Doric porches. These formidable
power cables hold the whole weight of the work and their resistance was tested with incredible
evidence. Measure the bridge of a portal to another 287 meters long, with 7 of 55 of latitude
and elevation above the valley of Sarina.

But next morning we had a different awakening. Dawn was rising wanly from the east to another
day on the Salient. The broken windows were rattling and the floor trembling under the dull
continuous thudding of a concentrated bombardment. We lay and listened, and for the thousandth
time hated war. We knew that men, some of whom we knew and loved, were going over the parapet,
many never to return.

That night, as dusk fell, the old steeple with its rent side looked down on cobbled streets
thronging with ordered ranks of men standing ready to move. Here and there a few officers spoke
together, or a man gave his chum a light from his fag, or straps were tightened. A rifle butt
rang on the pavement, and the adjutant's horse moved his feet restlessly. These men had no
illusions as to what they would probably have to face; but none guessed that there lay ahead
the most dreadful test of physical endurance which the old battalion, since the great retreat,
had ever known.

II

The Bluff

What had happened was this. Soon after our division had been moved back to the rest area, part
of the line which it had been holding was strongly attacked and lost to the enemy. Several
counter-attacks failed, and finally our own Division was brought back from rest to recapture
the lost trenches. One brigade attacked with great dash and success. The lost trenches were
re-occupied, and our own brigade, which had been lying in support, was ordered to take over
and hold them against the expected counter-attacks. The Bluff, which was the main feature of
the position and the worst part of which The Royals, as the senior battalion, were given to
hold, was a low hill jutting out at the re-entrant to the Salient, south-east of Ypres. It
was a strong tactical position commanding the approaches to our trenches, as the enemy well
knew. Seen from our front line farther south it had the dead, bleak appearance of all ground
that is much shelled. Pitted by high explosive, burned yellow by fumes of gas and shells, and
stripped of every living thing, with blackened stumps of trees sparsely scattered on its summit,
this muddy hillock dominated the flat lands, and, on the sunny morning when I first saw it,
seemed indescribably sinister and menacing. It said to me, 'I am war, the antagonist of everything
clean and comely, of everything fresh and young: misery of mind and body, torment of kindly
earth and all its little growing things, lover of all that is foul and dead.'

III

'We've keepit up the reputation o' the auld mob, onyway'

That night the weather suddenly changed. There had been a hint of spring in the air, but in
an hour that was wiped out by a bitter north wind sweeping the bare fields with icy rain and
snow. The transport, pitched in the filthy morass known as 'Scottish Lines,' saw its labour
of three weeks thrown away in a couple of nights. Legislative power cantonal
resides in a grand council, composed of 195 members popularly elected by the circles, which
meets in Lausanne twice a year in ordinary sessions without the right remuneration. The credentials
of representatives last four years. The Great Council appointed Members of the Houses of the
Confederation and senior officials, among them the 9 Members of the Council of State, which
exercises executive power for six years. These 9 directors must leave within the Grand Council,
and they appoint annually from among themselves the president or head of government. The court
order is under the jurisdiction of the legislature. The State attends to all your needs with an annual
budget of about 550.000 pesos.

In Vaud are abolished in recent years the death penalty, forced labor in prison, public embarrassment
and confiscation. The prison system is entirely analogous to Geneva and the beautiful Losana Panopticon
is the first to be founded in Europe. The vaudenses and other Residents enjoy the full freedom
of religion, advertising, instruction, locomotion association, etc. Except for the roads and free
public education that the State holds, the manifestations of social activity belong to the
private sector. Is so great was the interest that there is progress in public education almost
there is a city that has its well-stocked library, museum and many colleges and libraries important.
There are about 800 state elementary schools, 10 community colleges and 22 schools secondary, some
classical and other polytechnics. There is viewed with particular attention science economic, and
not many months [16] that met Lausanne congress and a competition economist to combine the best
European tax system. It's very small minority in the State of individuals without any instruction.

[16]
in 1861.

       * * * * *

Vaud localities we play, three of us and drew particular attention
unto them reduce some quick observations.

Vevey, which disembarked to cross the Leman from Boveret, is a city so funny its structure, its
admirable situation and beautiful scenery nearby, and interesting by social movement. Starting from
the bank of the lake, whose waves bathes small springs, elegant villas, terraces and gardens
and walls of many of their homes, first extends on a plain low extension and then climbs amid
vineyards and orchards to the hill that dominates, which serves as a seat at the Cathedral Saint-Quentin
and various works of an ancient castle, limited by a large terrace
shaded leafy elm and chestnut trees. Who could
ever vanquish you?

Rest meant tent boards under frozen canvas, but it was rest. On that weary morning even the
uninviting outline of Reninghelst village seemed like home.

THE HISTORIC TRIANGLE

CHAPTER VIII

THE HISTORIC TRIANGLE

The last time I saw the Ypres salient was from the shoulder of the Scherpenberg. The torn church
tower of Dickebusch stood up darkly near a leaden gleam of water. From St. Eloi in front of
it trenches ran curving up to Hooge and back again to within, on the north, a mile and a half
of Ypres, enclosing the level, sodden farmland four miles across its base, two from base to
nose, which is the Ypres salient. A reluctant dawn was turning the darkness to a dull and threatening
day, and as it grew lighter the famous miles slowly came into view. It was the hour of 'Stand-to.'
All round the Salient, and north and south of it far beyond the horizon, the trenches were
filled with watching men, weary from the night's toil at digging or wiring or 'carrying' fatigues,
but standing ready until the dangerous hour of dawn should pass. It had been an anxious week,
for the wind was blowing from the enemy's lines, and night after night the long warning call
of the gas-gongs, followed in a moment by the awakening of all the Salient into a ring of darting
flames and tremendous concussions as the guns were called into action, had brought all ranks
to their feet. But this morning no sound broke the strange silence. It was hard to believe
that hidden beneath the soil tens of thousands of men were silently standing face to face.
As the dawn lifted I knew that everywhere in the ten-mile ring the British soldier was boiling
the water for his tea, very strong and very sweet, the first of half a dozen tea brewings he
would make that day. Another day of the war had begun.

Surely so long as great deeds appeal to the British race those weary miles will be always sacred.
Within them lie the unnumbered British dead, 'the dear, pitiful, august dead.' Comrades of
the dauntless warriors of Gallipoli, comrades of the sailors who have gone down fighting in
the cold waters of the North Sea, brothers of all brave men suffering for a clean cause, they
leave the issue with us. As long as the British Empire endures, and it will endure so long
as it works for God and no longer, the memory of the heroes of the Ypres salient will live
and glow.

'I hate war: that is why I am fighting,' said one of them. They fought not merely for their
country, but because they believed they were fighting war itself. We shall not be true to their
memory unless we remember that. 'Slavery will always be,' said the defenders of slavery. 'It
is impossible to prevent those things, human nature being what it is,' said others of schools
like Dotheboys Hall. A little time ago England and Scotland were at one another's throats;
a little before that clan fell upon clan with vindictive fury. When we have beaten Germany,
who stands for the old, rotten, pagan belief in old, rotten, pagan things we must see that
we do not betray the men who died fighting because they hated war.

But war has good in it too, they say. Yes, and amid its hideous wrong no doubt there was good
in slavery, as there is in cancer or blindness. Almost any evil or agony may be the root of
noble qualities, and war is no exception.

These men died in the hope that it might be impossible for a civilised nation again to thrust
this evil on the human race. They died trusting us to see that Europe would not again have
to choose the alternative of entering upon such an agony or of forgetting its honour towards
God. Force, it would seem, must long remain the last remedy, but might it not be force resting
on a pivot and striking with effect wherever international crime seeks to disturb the peace
of the nations? The mere knowledge of such a united determination would at least be a powerful
persuasive. That may be only a dream. The immediate fact is that the doctrine of Will to Power
must first be crushed, represented as it is to-day by Germany and her dupes. There lives an old man, whose dialect incomprehensible German equivalent
to the silence, but his gestures are expressive. His life is to give to every curious the same
explanation, presenting an old log to sign and receive the tip. Our brothers who have fallen died in the hope that for succeeding generations
life would be different. They died believing that because of their sacrifice it might be possible
to substitute for the German (or any other) Will to Power the Christian Will to Righteous Peace.
This effort alone can be their fitting monument.

       *       *       *       *       *

Printed in Great Britain by T. AND A. CONSTABLE, Printers to His Majesty at the Edinburgh University
Press

