This Member, you must know, had got a sad Crush upon his Hip, in the late Election, which gave
him intolerable Anguish;--so that, in short, he could think of nothing else:--For which Cause,
and others, he was strongly of Opinion, That the whole Romance was a just Gird at the late
York Election; and I think, says he, that the Promise of the Breeches broke, may well and truly
signify Somebody's else Promise, which was broke, and occasion'd to much Disturbance amongst us.

Thus every Man turn'd the Story to what was swimming uppermost in his own Brain;--so that,
before all was over, there were full as many Satyres spun out of it,--and as great a Variety
of Personages, Opinions, Transactions, and Truths, found to lay hid under the dark Veil of
its Allegory, as ever were discovered in the thrice-renowned History of the Acts of Gargantua
and Pantagruel.

At the Close of all, and just before the Club was going to break up,-- Mr. President rose from
his Chair, and begg'd Leave to make the two following Motions, which were instantly agreed
to, without any Division.

First Gentlemen, says he, as Trim's Character in the Romance, of a shuffling intriguing Fellow,--whoever
it was drawn for, is, in Truth, as like the French King as it can stare,--I move, That the
Romance be forthwith printed:--For, continues he, if we can but once turn the Laugh against
him, and make him asham'd of what he has done, it may be a great Means, with the Blessing of
God upon our Fleets and Armies, to save the Liberties of Europe.

In the second Place, I move, That Mr. Attorney, our worthy Member, be desired to take Minutes,
upon the Spot, of every Conjecture which has been made upon the Romance, by the several Members
who have spoke; which, I think, says he, will answer two good Ends:

1st, It will establish the Political Knowledge of our Club for ever, and place it in a respectable
Light to all the World.

In the next Place, it will furnish what will be wanted; that is, a Key to the Romance.--In
troth you might have said a whole Bunch of Keys, quoth a Whitesmith, who was the only Member
in the Club who had not said something in the Debate: But let me tell you, Mr. President, says
he, That the Right Key, if it could but be found, would be worth the whole Bunch put together.

To ------ ---------, Esq; of York.

Sir,

You write me Word that the Letter I wrote to you, and now stiled The Political Romance is printing;
and that, as it was drop'd by Carelessness, to make some Amends, you will overlook the Printing
of it yourself, and take Care to see that it comes right into the World.

I was just going to return you Thanks, and to beg, withal, you would take Care That the Child
be not laid at my Door.--But having, this Moment, perused the Reply to the Dean of York's Answer,--it
has made me alter my Mind in that respect; so that, instead of making you the Request I intended,
I do here desire That the Child be filiated upon me, Laurence Sterne, Prebendary of York, &c.
&c. And I do, accordingly, own it for my own true and lawful Offspring.

My Reason for this is plain;--for as, you see, the Writer of that Reply, has taken upon him
to invade this incontested Right of another Man's in a Thing of this Kind, it is high Time
for every Man to look to his own-- Since, upon the same Grounds, and with half the Degree of
Anger, that he affirms the Production of that very Reverend Gentleman's, to be the Child of
many Fathers, some one in his Spight (for I am not without my Friends of that Stamp) may run
headlong into the other Extream, and swear, That mine had no Father at all:--And therefore,
to make use of Bays's Plea in the Rehearsal, for Prince Pretty-Man; I merely do it, as he says,
"for fear it should be said to be no Body's Child at all."

I have only to add two Things:--First, That, at your Peril, you do not presume to alter or
transpose one Word, nor rectify one false Spelling, nor so much as add or diminish one Comma
or Tittle, in or to my Romance:--For if you do,--In case any of the Descendents of Curl should
think fit to invade my Copy-Right, and print it over again in my Teeth, I may not be able,
in a Court of Justice, to swear strictly to my own Child, after you had so large a Share in
the begetting it.

In the next Place, I do not approve of your quaint Conceit at the Foot of the Title Page of
my Romance,--It would only set People on finding a Page or two before I give them Leave;--and
besides, all Attempts either at Wit or Humour, in that Place, are a Forestalling of what slender
Entertainment of those Kinds are prepared within: Therefore I would have it stand thus:

YORK: Printed in the Year 1759. (Price One Shilling.)

I know you will tell me, That it is set too high; and as a Proof, you will say, That this last
Reply to the Dean's Answer does consist of near as many Pages as mine; and yet is all sold
for Six-pence.--But mine, my dear Friend, is quite a different Story:--It is a Web wrought
out of my own Brain, of twice the Fineness of this which he has spun out of his; and besides,
I maintain it, it is of a more curious Pattern, and could not be afforded at the Price that
his is sold at, by any honest Workman in Great-Britain.

Moreover, Sir, you do not consider, That the Writer is interested in his Story, and that it
is his Business to set it a-going at any Price: And indeed, from the Information of Persons
conversant in Paper and Print, I have very good Reason to believe, if he should sell every
Pamphlet of them, he would inevitably be a Great Loser by it, This I believe verily, and am,

Dear Sir, Your obliged Friend and humble Servant, LAURENCE STERNE, Sutton on the Forest, Jan.
20, 1759

To Dr. TOPHAM.

Sir,

Though the Reply to the Dean of York is not declared, in the Title-Page, or elsewhere, to be
wrote by you,--Yet I take that Point for granted; and therefore beg Leave, in this public Manner,
to write to you in Behalf of myself; with Intent to set you right in two Points where I stand
concerned in this Affair; and which I find you have misapprehended, and consequently (as I
hope) misrepresented.

The First is, in respect of some Words, made use of in the Instrument, signed by Dr. Herring,
Mr. Berdmore and myself.--Namely, "to the best of our Remembrance and Belief"; which Words
you have caught hold of, as implying some Abatement of our Certainty as to the Facts therein
attested. Whether it was so with the other two Gentlemen who signed that Attestation with me,
it is not for me to say; they are able to answer for themselves, and I desire to do so for
myself; and therefore I declare to you, and to all Mankind, That the Words in the first Paragraph,
"to the best of our Remembrance and Belief", implied no Doubt remaining upon my Mind, nor any
Distrust whatever of my Memory, from the Distance of Time;--Nor, in short, was it my Intention
to attest the several Facts therein, as Matters of Belief--But as Matters of as much Certainty
as a Man was capable of having, or giving Evidence to. In Consequence of this Explanation of
myself, I do declare myself ready to attest the same Instrument over again, striking out the
Words "to the best of our Remembrance and Belief" which I see, have raised this Exception to it.

Whether I was mistaken or no, I leave to better Judges; but I understood those Words were a
very common Preamble to Attestations of Things, to which we bore the clearest Evidence;--However,
Dr. Topham, as you have claimed just such another Indulgence yourself, in the Case of begging
the Dean's Authority to say, what, as you affirm, you had sufficient Authority to say without,
as a modest and Gentleman-like Way of Affirmation;--I wish you had spared either the one or
the other of your Remarks upon these two Passages:

--Veniam petimus, demusque vicissim.

There is another Observation relating to this Instrument, which I perceive has escaped your
Notice; which I take the Liberty to point out to you, namely, That the Words, "To the best
of our Remembrance and Belief", if they imply any Abatement of Certainty, seem only confined
to that Paragraph, and to what is immediately attested after them in it:-- For in the second
Paragraph, wherein the main Points are minutely attested, and upon which the whole Dispute,
and main Charge against the Dean, turns, it is introduced thus:

"We do particularly remember, That as soon as Dinner was over, &c."

In the second Place you affirm, "That it is not Paid, That Mr. Sterne could affirm he had heard
you charge the Dean with a Promise, in its own Nature so very extraordinary, as of the Commissaryship
of the Dean and Chapter":--To this I answer, That my true Intent in subscribing that very instrument,
and I suppose of others, was to attest this very Thing; and I have just now read that Part
of the Instrument over; and cannot, for my Life, affirm it either more directly or expresly,
than in the Words as they there stand;--therefore please to let me transcribe them.

"But being press'd by Mr. Sterne with an undeniable Proof, That he, (Dr. Topham) did propagate
the said Story, (viz: of a Promise from the Dean to Dr. Topham of the Dean and Chapter's Commissaryship)--Dr.
Topham did at last acknowledge it; adding, as his Reason or Excuse for so doing, That he apprehended
(or Words to that Effect) he had a Promise under the Dean's own Hand, of the Dean and Chapter's
Commissaryship."

This I have attested, and what Weight the Sanction of an Oath will add to it, I am willing
and ready to give.

As for Mr. Ricard's feeble Attestation, brought to shake the Credit of this firm and solemn
one, I have nothing to say to it, as it is only an Attestation of Mr. Ricard's Conjectures
upon the Subject.--But this I can say, That I had the Honour to be at the Deanery with the
learned Counsel, when Mr. Ricard underwent that most formidable Examination you speak of,--and
I solemnly affirm, That he then said, He knew nothing at all about the Matter, one Way or the
other; and the Reasons he gave for his utter Ignorance, were, first, That he was then so full
of Concern, at the Difference which arose between two Gentlemen, both his Friends, that he
did not attend to the Subject Matter of it,--and of which he declared again he knew nothing
at all. And secondly, If he had understood it then, the Distance would have put it out of his
Head by this Time.

He has since scower'd his Memory, I ween; for now he says, That he apprehended the Dispute
regarded something in the Dean's Gift, as he could not naturally suppose, &c. 'Tis certain,
at the Deanery, he had naturally no Suppositions in his Head about this Affair; so that I with
this may not prove one of the After-Thoughts you speak of, and not so much a natural as an
artificial Supposition of my good Friend's.

As for the formidable Enquiry you represent him as undergoing,--let me intreat you to give
me Credit in what I say upon it,--namely,--That it was as much the Reverse to every Idea that
ever was couch'd under that Word, as Words can represent it to you. As for the learned Counsel
and myself, who were in the Room all the Time, I do not remember that we, either of us, spoke
ten Words. The Dean was the only one that ask'd Mr. Ricard what he remembered about the Affair
of the Sessions Dinner; which he did in the most Gentleman-like and candid Manner,--and with
an Air of as much Calmness and seeming Indifference, as if he had been questioning him about
the News in the last Brussels Gazette.

What Mr. Ricard saw to terrify him so sadly, I cannot apprehend, unless the Dean's Gothic Book-Case,--which
I own has an odd Appearance to a Stranger; so that if he came terrified in his Mind there,
and with a Resolution not to plead, he might naturally suppose it to be a great Engine brought
there on purpose to exercise the Peine fort et dure upon him.--But to be serious; if Mr. Ricard
told you, That this Enquiry was most formidable, He was much to blame;--and if you have said
it, without his express Information, then You are much to blame.

This is all, I think, in your Reply, which concerns me to answer:--As for the many coarse and
unchristian Insinuations scatter'd throughout your Reply,--as it is my Duty to beg God to forgive
you, so I do from my Heart: Believe me, Dr. Topham, they hurt yourself more than the Person
they are aimed at; and when the first Transport of Rage is a little over, they will grieve
you more too.

--prima est haec Ultio.

But these I hold to be no answerable Part of a Controversy;--and for the little that remains
unanswered in yours,--I believe I could, in another half Hour, set it right in the Eyes of
the World: But this is not my Business.--And is it is thought worth the while, which I hope
it never will, I know no one more able to do it than the very Reverend and Worthy Gentleman
whom you have so unhandsomely insulted upon that Score.

As for the supposed Compilers, whom you have been so wrath and so unmerciful against, I'll
be answerable for it, as they are Creatures of your own Fancy, they will bear you no Malice.
However, I think the more positively any Charge is made, let it be against whom it will, the
better it should be supported; and therefore I should be sorry, for your own Honour, if you
have not some better Grounds for all you have thrown out about them, than the mere Heat of
your Imagination or Anger. To tell you truly, your Suppositions on this Head oft put me in
Mind of Trim's twelve Men in Buckram, which his disordered Fancy represented as laying in Ambush
in John the Clerk's House, and letting drive at him all together. I am,

SIR, Your most obedient And most humble Servant, LAWRENCE STERNE Sutton on the Forest, Jan.
20, 1759

P.S. I beg Pardon for clapping this upon the Back of the Romance,--which is done out of no
Disrespect to you.--But the Vehicle stood ready at the Door,--and as I was to pay the whole
Fare, and there was Room enough behind it,--it was the cheapest and readiest Conveyance I could
think of.

FINIS.