QUEEN SHEBA'S RING

by H. Rider Haggard

CHAPTER I

THE COMING OF THE RING

Every one has read the monograph, I believe that is the right word, of my dear friend, Professor
Higgs--Ptolemy Higgs to give him his full name--descriptive of the tableland of Mur in North
Central Africa, of the ancient underground city in the mountains which surrounded it, and of
the strange tribe of Abyssinian Jews, or rather their mixed descendants, by whom it is, or
was, inhabited. I say every one advisedly, for although the public which studies such works
is usually select, that which will take an interest in them, if the character of a learned
and pugnacious personage is concerned, is very wide indeed. Not to mince matters, I may as
well explain what I mean at once.

Professor Higgs's rivals and enemies, of whom either the brilliancy of his achievements or
his somewhat abrupt and pointed methods of controversy seem to have made him a great many,
have risen up, or rather seated themselves, and written him down--well, an individual who strains
the truth. Indeed, only this morning one of these inquired, in a letter to the press, alluding
to some adventurous traveller who, I am told, lectured to the British Association several years
ago, whether Professor Higgs did not, in fact, ride across the desert to Mur, not upon a camel,
as he alleged, but upon a land tortoise of extraordinary size.

The innuendo contained in this epistle has made the Professor, who, as I have already hinted,
is not by nature of a meek disposition, extremely angry. Indeed, notwithstanding all that I
could do, he left his London house under an hour ago with a whip of hippopotamus hide such
as the Egyptians call a koorbash, purposing to avenge himself upon the person of his defamer.
In order to prevent a public scandal, however, I have taken the liberty of telephoning to that
gentleman, who, bold and vicious as he may be in print, is physically small and, I should say,
of a timid character, to get out of the way at once. To judge from the abrupt fashion in which
our conversation came to an end, I imagine that the hint has been taken. At any rate, I hope
for the best, and, as an extra precaution, have communicated with the lawyers of my justly
indignant friend.

The reader will now probably understand that I am writing this book, not to bring myself or
others before the public, or to make money of which I have no present need, or for any purpose
whatsoever, except to set down the bare and actual truth. In fact, so many rumours are flying
about as to where we have been and what befell us that this has become almost necessary. As
soon as I laid down that cruel column of gibes and insinuations to which I have alluded--yes,
this very morning, before breakfast, this conviction took hold of me so strongly that I cabled
to Oliver, Captain Oliver Orme, the hero of my history, if it has any particular hero, who
is at present engaged upon what must be an extremely agreeable journey round the world--asking
his consent. Ten minutes since the answer arrived from Tokyo. Here it is:

"Do what you like and think necessary, but please alter all names, et cetera, as propose returning
via America, and fear interviewers. Japan jolly place." Then follows some private matter which
I need not insert. Oliver is always extravagant where cablegrams are concerned.

I suppose that before entering on this narration, for the reader's benefit I had better give
some short description of myself.

My name is Richard Adams, and I am the son of a Cumberland yeoman who married a Welshwoman.
Therefore I have Celtic blood in my veins, which perhaps accounts for my love of roving and
other things. I am now an old man, near the end of my course, I suppose; at any rate, I was
sixty-five last birthday. This is my appearance as I see it in the glass before me: tall, spare
(I don't weigh more than a hundred and forty pounds--the desert has any superfluous flesh that
I ever owned, my lot having been, like Falstaff, to lard the lean earth, but in a hot climate);
my eyes are brown, my face is long, and I wear a pointed white beard, which matches the white
hair above.

Truth compels me to add that my general appearance, as seen in that glass which will not lie,
reminds me of that of a rather aged goat; indeed, to be frank, by the natives among whom I
have sojourned, and especially among the Khalifa's people when I was a prisoner there, I have
often been called the White Goat.

Of my very commonplace outward self let this suffice. As for my record, I am a doctor of the
old school. Think of it! When I was a student at Bart.'s the antiseptic treatment was quite
a new thing, and administered when at all, by help of a kind of engine on wheels, out of which
disinfectants were dispensed with a pump, much as the advanced gardener sprays a greenhouse to-day.

I succeeded above the average as a student, and in my early time as a doctor. But in every
man's life there happen things which, whatever excuses may be found for them, would not look
particularly well in cold print (nobody's record, as understood by convention and the Pharisee,
could really stand cold print); also something in my blood made me its servant. In short, having
no strict ties at home, and desiring to see the world, I wandered far and wide for many years,
earning my living as I went, never, in my experience, a difficult thing to do, for I was always
a master of my trade.

My fortieth birthday found me practising at Cairo, which I mention only because it was here
that first I met Ptolemy Higgs, who, even then in his youth, was noted for his extraordinary
antiquarian and linguistic abilities. I remember that in those days the joke about him was
that he could swear in fifteen languages like a native and in thirty-two with common proficiency,
and could read hieroglyphics as easily as a bishop reads the Times.

Well, I doctored him through a bad attack of typhoid, but as he had spent every farthing he
owned on scarabs or something of the sort, made him no charge. This little kindness I am bound
to say he never forgot, for whatever his failings may be (personally I would not trust him
alone with any object that was more than a thousand years old), Ptolemy is a good and faithful
friend.

In Cairo I married a Copt. She was a lady of high descent, the tradition in her family being
that they were sprung from one of the Ptolemaic Pharaohs, which is possible and even probable
enough. Also, she was a Christian, and well educated in her way. But, of course, she remained
an Oriental, and for a European to marry an Oriental is, as I have tried to explain to others,
a very dangerous thing, especially if he continues to live in the East, where it cuts him off
from social recognition and intimacy with his own race. Still, although this step of mine forced
me to leave Cairo and go to Assouan, then a little-known place, to practise chiefly among the
natives, God knows we were happy enough together till the plague took her, and with it my joy
in life.

I pass over all that business, since there are some things too dreadful and too sacred to write
about. She left me one child, a son, who, to fill up my cup of sorrow, when he was twelve years
of age, was kidnapped by the Mardi's people.

This brings me to the real story. There is nobody else to write it; Oliver will not; Higgs
cannot (outside of anything learned and antiquarian, he is hopeless); so I must. At any rate,
if it is not interesting, the fault will be mine, not that of the story, which in all conscience
is strange enough.

We are now in the middle of June, and it was a year ago last December that, on the evening
of the day of my arrival in London after an absence of half a lifetime, I found myself knocking
at the door of Professor Higgs's rooms in Guildford Street, W.C. It was opened by his housekeeper,
Mrs. Reid, a thin and saturnine old woman, who reminded and still reminds me of a reanimated
mummy. She told me that the Professor was in, but had a gentleman to dinner, and suggested
sourly that I should call again the next morning. With difficulty I persuaded her at last to
inform her master that an old Egyptian friend had brought him something which he certainly
would like to see.

Five minutes later I groped my way into Higgs's sitting-room, which Mrs. Reid had contented
herself with indicating from a lower floor. It is a large room, running the whole width of
the house, divided into two by an arch, where once, in the Georgian days, there had been folding
doors. 

Despite hurting his spirit travel that perspective, with the consequent discomfort, the much spending,
asking for free tickets and other chinchorrerías, D. Francisco was so happy joy overflowed him
on the lips, and could not be quiet for a minute. "In As soon as I get well, I will undertake
carpentry work. I'll make you a cupboard for clothes, so good and so famous, that people asked
to view the ballot, as history Natural, and stables. The lessee of the short Balsaín gives me much
pine I do want ... In the basement of this house is a repository of mahogany that are rotting,
and His Majesty will allow me to take a little piece ... The contractor's pantheon of Birth Escorial
has offered me all the marble you want. I'll make a cabinet with marble ... I say a pantheon
for clothes ... no, I will make a great sink and a console ... And I'll Candidita to also
make furniture ... I'm such a tool which ... But I will try others ... or I paid the contractor
for the works of La Granja ...». Speaking of which, put your spoon the widow, the artist said
that she could provide for their work styles sumptuous and elegant. He inlaid console himself that
belonged to Grimaldi, and a wardrobe brought from Paris by the Ursinos. As the workshop D. Francis
needed, easier it would get from His Majesty ceded a place of many who were uninhabited and empty
on the third floor. Just beside the oratory was a large room with excellent lights, once the dovecote,
which would be better not made purposely for that object. With both rubbed his hands briskly Bringas,
certainly lacked that little spark for them. "We're fine, fine. See me and see all my work ...
"was what he said endlessly.

Needless to say I think Rosalie was also very happy.

Beloved husband regain his health, the hearing, which is the best part of it and life, and return
to play in that house his paternal sovereign functions. But as any that is complete in this loathsome
world, successful events but have to always carry their projection sad, as they have bodies all
his shadow, that Brinker had the pleasure of one side by a dark unpleasant. Was that in that region
of his mind lay the memory of the chandeliers Forced engaged and committed to redeem before Bringas
his sight and, her watchful watching, observing intrusive, relentless curiosity, police, mousy.
Surely, if the happy day arrived and the chandeliers were not on the console or screws in the
beautiful ears of the lady, the first thing that lynx would notary lack of these things ...
Horror was the thought! ... See where to happiness itself engendered a stinging pain in such
a way that the unhappy lady was in a sick painful perplexity. The expressed saying that perhaps
would be glad to not be so happy.

The impatience and vivacity of Bringas manifested in a fever of domestic
intervention, in management such as delirium, watching without seeing
and directing all the same as if seen.

Not a minute left to enact miscellaneous provisions, and he himself answered questions I was doing.
His wife is fair to say, my head was so crazy chatterbox.

XXVI

"Daughter, hear what I say ... If we are going to order those convicted bathrooms, you deal with
the dresses you have. The silent changes, you take away one thing to put it another ... and as
new. All I will say that Worth has sent them. Do not think, so do to the duchess ... I expect that
His Majesty will put two little letters to the leader of the movement to give us tickets Free for
all ... Another thing: if you're taking your position and what you can do, you can get that
the Lord ordered the Administration to give two months' pay me the month of July ... And why
not July and August? You know everything will be done, and talk about our trip to grieve and say
that we can not for lack of ... This depends on the hardening lame beneficial, and easy will, it
almost always is in that temple ... I leave it to your skill ... Children do not need dresses
... If anything some guy hat ... Do not do anything until I see it. Can you spend a very striking
and make sense, with baskets on their heads that make them chyle sweat. I will get the jipijapa
that Augustine left forgotten, and my levisac of nap, which I did six years ago, and my denim
dress that always looks brand new ... such strain. I'll give us a car booked to take food, stove that
making chocolate, a mattress, pillows, water jug ​​and some other useful thing ... Finally, we
will travel as possible. "

Tarabilla continues: "What is that noise I've ever felt? What have I broken? Since I do not see
I keep track of the plates and cups that I have felt down, not down a dozen and a half. When See,
my God, I find the house made a shame. Do not tell me no. I think that I see the mess of everything
and a thousand useless expenses. I can not explain the huge consumption of oil, now I do not
need light. And Prudence, are you making good account? Bet that no. With that of the master does
not see, all is confusion. Lemons say that twenty-four reals. But thou hast commanded to bring
here all the orchards of Valencia? For if the drugs cost us money would have to beg. Anyway,
I put me well, and everything will be fine. I think that since I have not done so many things
I have ordered ... And, as the master does not see ... Bring meat or skirt, and I never heard
from again Mr. Pickled wheel which is a fixed dish sir, or I was told if the macaroons are still
coming in to room for dessert ... In the distribution of time is not what will be done. Say
no can be in everything, and I wonder why that has not cleaning cutlery Paquito when it comes
to the class. What then? A sir detract from this? For his father has done and will do when his
sight ... I am also sure that you do not remove children's shoes when they come from school
and put the old ones. In the noise I know that walking footsteps running around with out shoes
on the street. Well might habérsete bring a alpargatitas occurred, which this time are the
best ... But I see, I see, and everything will return to that tolerance-tolerance without which
we can not live ... And I figure that Prudence lava not all it should. It will not be for
lack of soap, which has spent more than necessary in these days when I've moved so rarely, without
the use of collars or cuffs ... Bet that when taken Candidita coffee, have not you done it the previous
day, but you've cast again. By bouncing whiff I have known. Well, well, to promote services; for
that we are. "

The chant did not sound good to the ears of Rosalia, and less time.

Was again all things the state they were before, and to obey the lengthy time rules that flowed
endlessly inexhaustible source of domestic law. Brought boys' sandals, and Bringas not already
ruled that school because excessive heat I was bad, and the holiday, about being an economy,
it was very hygienic. They thanked much, and all day it went running and playing in the corridors
with large denim robes, or they went to the third floor for other children and Irene. Were happiest
beings in the house, almost as much as the birds that nest in the hollows of architecture
and wrap around the imposing edifice in an atmosphere of lullabies.

In those days, had a visit, that caused surprise both of husbands
and a sense something far from satisfaction.

A person whose name they did not want to remember, Refugio Sánchez Emperor, presented himself at
home, when least expected. Sorely embarrassed by which believed that masked a brash Rosalia
to switch, even a moment with decent people. Soon said the reason for your visit. Her sister
had Amparo letter from Bordeaux ... Alas, too sore by the illness of D. Francisco ... "He says
since I knew not think of anything else. " He was immediately commissioned to visit the lords,
to know of how she was sick, and I wrote a post back. Wanted heard from him two or three times
a week at least ... D. Augustine was also carefully and desiring to hear the news ...

Bringas was very grateful, and both urged their improvement, which had to believe Refuge just had
that huge fad band.

"Tell them I'm fine and thank you much attention ...». Rosalie felt like saying to fresh four
who had the audacity to desecrate the honorable entering her house, but he kept his composure
D. Francisco and good manners of the girl's contained. He could not, however, save Social formulas
with it, and just waved, without shaking hands. While the girl was talking to Bringas, the
Pipaón de la Barca was in and out as if such a visit was not at home. Looking at it to pass, had to
notice something that decreased their antipathies. It was the restraint and showing seriousness,
things were not good measures reasonable and said, was her dress it was swish, new, beautifully
cut, made and decorated. Rosalie looked at sideways and could not of amazement from that of
a goat hair so original and beautiful color, decentísimo and appearance of the young, well-gloved
and better road. "It graciosilla" - said for himself, and was left wanting to ask where he had
bought the goat hair ... Perhaps Amparito had commanded him to Bordeaux. After wearing a pin chest
... so chic! How you were the eyes behind him Rosalie! ".

"What do you do you?" - Asked D. Francisco back to her face, as if the could see through the black
band.

- Do I Sánchez ?...-- replied a little embarrassed at first, but recovering
with the highest resiliency -.

So, now not working. I'm a little sensitive, I have chest pain, sometimes I trouble breathing
and spent some sleepless nights. You know, since I sleep, seems to make me a stone here ...
My sister tells me I need to pass themselves with facility and rest. I live with a very decent
lady, I love him. I live a very removal ... Well as I was saying to you, my sister wants me to take on something.
As no I can work or machine needle, Amparo is determined to put an establishment fashion, and
to begin sent me a huge box of hats, fichus, brimmed hats, ties, Bow-Tie, camisetitas ... treasures.
Madrid have not ever seen so much new stuff and good taste. I also received a straw and cloth
caps, ribbons of all kinds, feathers, marabou, egret, plumes, Amazons, touches, pinions, hummingbirds,
esprís, and how God created. I doing tests to see how I compose ... I've searched some parishioners
of greatness and have been to my house many ladies ... Delighted all I have. I sent to a little cards
...

Saying it, took out one to give it to Rosalie, who with evil took smoothing frown, deigning to
grace the girl with a benevolent smile, the first seen Refuge disparaging
those lips.

And while the youngest still more expensive the workmanship callipygian of that industry in which
they had been, the Bringas oíala with some interest, forgiving perhaps the contempt of the
person by the sublimity of the matter was. As the Spirit Holy down to the lips of the repentant
sinner, can sanctify this, Shelter, the eyes of his illustrious relative, is redeemed by the
divinity of his speech.

'With that modito? - Said D. Francisco jest -. Nice business!

Look at those monkeys that will you give your parishioners! This luxury is in inverse ratio
of money to pay. Much eye, girl ... It seems to me that if your sister does not send you to live
on, what's with you eat the rag again elbows hungry ... And you come to us to be snapped up
for your parishioners? Girl, by God, play and play at another door ... Your industry is the
ruin of families and the novitiate of San Bernardino. But I wish you good luck, and I recommend
have no guts, if you defend yourself from misery. Hard on them! For what it's worth twelve
takes forty, and so the excess of pay to cover the lack of more than get quarter ... Oh how funny
!...».

A good laugh while it lasted, which was attended by all those present, even the lady who had
the incredible kindness of accompanying Refuge to the door, and give some pleasantries.

XXVII

"Do not you wonder if they have married?" - Rosalie said her
husband, when he rushed next to it.

- I had the word in the mouth
more than once to ask, but I did not dare, for fear to tell me no,
and I take a berrinchín.

- I had to restrain myself to not put it
on the street - said the lady doing enough to appear possessed of
a holy rage, legitimate son of a sense of dignity -.

Is metérsenos audacity to come here and stupid with messages of good piece of your sister ... other
such.

Nor does it matter that Amparo is interested or not for us! ... As the feelings Augustine also
make me grace ... A people for whom the Catechism is like the specifications
of doggerel ... I was blown hearing it.

I do not know how you had the patience to withstand such litany of lies and nonsense ... And now he
goes to sell news ... What crap are those! I assure you I was a mess ...

The entry of Mr de Pez cut the number of observations that had undoubtedly illustrate the matter.
Soon after, Bringas, who never tired of giving orders, provided that there hereinafter eat
at one or one and a half, Spanish style, dining at nine night. This was not only more comfortable
at the station heat, but cheaper, because they spent less coal. Dinner must be light thing.
My man recommended lentils, beans chard and peas, though they were
black broth, garlic soup, and abstinence from meat at night.

This plan was no more inconvenient than having to add to their stomachs, afternoon, the weight
of a Chocolatito, whose charge, by the fact of having stuck Dona Candida family like a leech,
it was point less than unbearable. Truth is God was always in aid of Thiers, for Dona Tula,
in summer the same system adopted meals each evening was a delicious chocolate and almost always
sent to a sick person gourd, well guarded by mojicón and biscuits.

"This Dona Tula - Bringas said when the maid was entering his neighbor - is a person very attentive
...».

Rosalie went to the house of Doña Tula, rarely missing the chocolate Pez six and a half .. There
were other highly skilled people in the city, as the sister the mayor, a man chaplain at times,
the second official stewardship, the inspector Usually the doctor
and others.

Miracles do not ever put your feet in the house of his sister, because some time ago which were
not treated.

Speaking of the Marchioness, used to designate Dona Tula with some reluctance, but without
going over here. Mary was almost always, and everyone loved with it, mimándola. La de Bringas
was there public display of her dress and Candida mozambique wore his black grosgrain, only
kept in good condition. Be idle to say that being found Mr. Fish present, no other mortal would
dare to lift the rooster in a conversation policy or on any matter of substance. For my part
I confess that the manner of speaking of that man as guapín and words as well measures, exercised
not know what narcotic action on my nerves. The same thing was to get him to explain why their
result with moderate party, I thought that a fresh henbane is poured into my brain, and the couch
Dona Tula, stroking their arms warm, invited me to take a nap. Courtesy, however, obligábame to fight
the damn dream, which was a similar state the doctors call coma vigil, a view without seeing a
ghost image transition, a hearing without hearing, and tinnitus are mixed. The quaint room that
was half the heat closed and in the shade, the filtered light coming through the transparent
fabric, lighting with the enormous tropical flowers coloring these, the bass tone that faded
tapestry had all the things in this sleepy cavity, the slight hoarseness Dona Candida and yawning,
discreetly covered with the palm of the hand, the beauty of Mary Sudre not seem to belong in this
world, the mozambique pintitas Rosalia with that dizzy the eye, and finally the slow sound of
the rocking and the fans chis chas five or six ladies were so many agents lethargic in my brain.
As the sequins glittered Some fans and flashed the concepts one by one ... Summer is anticipated
that year and would be very cruel ... The generals had come to the Canaries ... Prim was in
Vichy ... The Queen would go to the farm and then Lequeitio ... It began to take something picked
tails, bath and queues were already banned ... González Bravo was sick to your stomach ...
Cabrera had gone to see the smooth Child ...

Recently highlighted the voice of Fish, in a tone closely related to his golden mustache equality
that seemed artificial hair, and growing the narcotic effect ... The so- I could not see without
bitter sorrow the situation that things had come about because and others ... The revolution
with its all or nothing and moderates with his non possumus put the country the edge of the slope
at the edge of the abyss, the precipice. There was the good lord disappointed, and do not
believe there was no remedy for evil.

This was a land of destruction, a country of adventure, a country divided between the conspiracy
and resistance. So could not no progress or advancement, or improvement, nor administration.
He was always saying: "More government, more government" but was preaching in the desert. All
services public were in their infancy. Fish was an ideal organizer stroked his mind, but what
how to do it? His ideal was to ride a perfect administrative system, with eighty or ninety DGs.
That there was any manifestation of national life that escape the wise guidance of the State.
That would run all right. The country did not think the country did not act, the country was
an idiot. It was therefore necessary that the State should think and work for him, because only State
was smart. As this could not be done, Pez was reflected in his spirit always sad and concerned
that sovereign indifference of all things. We felt superior his contemporaries, at least looked
more, something better discerned, and as he could not take to reality, hence their phlegmatic
calm. Mentally comforting stroking his principles, amid the general confusion. To watch in fantasy
the regeneration of Spain, eyes from the corruption of morals, of that contempt of all laws
which was rife ... Oh, happy fish will be assessed with the deposit of principles that had in
your body. She loved the pure moral rectitude inflexible, and his conscience was indemnified
of the outrages he saw everywhere ... Would to God that this ideal should not depart from its
soul ... So he was not vanish at the touch of such rascals, like God ...

I do not know the time that no deviation between that second and a discreet tap like me Dona
Candida resulted in the knee ...

"Are you distracted?" - He said.

- No, no, Slovakia, lady ... I was listening to Don Manuel, who ...

- If D. Manuel has come out to the terrace.

Serafinita Lantigua is telling the death of her husband.

I am horrified ...

- Oh, me too ... horripiladísimo.

XXVIII

Indolent wandered the terrace, as if they were long, Fish, Rosalie and sister of the mayor. This
was the home of the sommelier, and the elegant couple was left alone ... D. Poor Manuel was truly
pitiful. Religious monomania and his wife came to so annoying end could not bear it ... "What
do you think?, I hear both Serafinita incocoraba the story, so old and resobado of their hardships,
I was hoping to run away ... That Canturri voice choir and those sighs of funeral my nerves
... I I am religious and believe that the Church commands, but these people who sleep with
God God rises and I feel in my stomach. Serafinita That is what has brains sucked my poor Carolina,
is the author of my misery and loathing I have my own home ... Oh, my dear, you do not know
what the disease is so sad the horror of home ... Fortunately you do not know ... I would be
gone all day, and apparently there ... Insensibly get used to regard as home ownership the my
friend's house, and not a moment I thought the comparison is between the heat friendly of dry cold
here and there ... I am a man who can not live without love. It gives me as necessary as air.
Without it choking me, I die. Where I find, my store har And there I was ...».

Isabelita and Alfonsin ran past. Iban suffocation, sweaty, so much had struggled on the third floor
gallery with Irene and the girls from the chef. "Child, how are you !...-- said Rosalia, arresting the
girl -. Your face is like a cooked crab ... Now run air ... Get home, do not constipated ... And
this rogue ...? Do you see how it comes?, All broken and made an Adam. Look what your knees ...
If you put an iron suit as well as break ...».

"How funny barbie!

Skin is the devil ... This will be a man "- said kissing fish, and
also kissing the girl.

- Dame rooms - said little cheeky.

- Do you
see what rascal?

... Boy! ... What is it? ... Pay no attention. Has a bad habit ask for rooms to everyone. I do not
know where to have learned such tricks. It's a laugh ... A Later I took them they saw His Majesty
... I have not spent more embarrassment in my life! There was no way to make them speak a word
of a sudden, this rascal is planted, look at Queen with the most shameful thing in the world
and extending their manocita ... "Give me quarters'. His Majesty laughed.

- Well, sir early, making rooms.

- What do you do? If they want to buy crap ... This fool does not ask, but when they are given
the shot. Do not think that is spendthrift.

Quia!

Everything is saved in his piggy bank and already has a capital. This leaves ...

- Sale Dad ...

- Wow, a home that you enfriáis here ... I sweat,
my child ... Here I go away.

Four jumps were on the door step Cáceres,
and there they went to home. Fish gave a sigh. I can pay for your services and those of any whom you may
bring with you.'

"I answered that it was hopeless, as no one would believe the tale, whereon she drew from her
finger the throne-ring or State signet which you have in your pocket, Higgs, saying: 'My mothers
have worn this since the days of Maqueda, Queen of Sheba. If there are learned men among your
people they will read her name upon it and know that I speak no lie. Take it as a token, and
take also enough of our gold to buy the stuffs whereof you speak, which hide fires that can
throw mountains skyward, and the services of skilled and trusty men who are masters of the
stuff, two or three of them only, for more cannot be transported across the desert, and come
back to save your son and me.' That's all the story, Higgs. Will you take the business on,
or shall I try elsewhere? You must make up your mind, because I have no time to lose, if I
am to get into Mur again before the rains."

"Got any of that gold you spoke of about you?" asked the Professor.

I drew a skin bag from the pocket of my coat, and poured some out upon the table, which he
examined carefully.

"Ring money," he said presently, "might be Anglo-Saxon, might be anything; date absolutely
uncertain, but from its appearance I should say slightly alloyed with silver; yes, there is
a bit which has oxydized--undoubtedly old, that."

Then he produced the signet from his pocket, and examined the ring and the stone very carefully
through a powerful glass.

"Seems all right," he said, "and although I have been greened in my time, I don't make many
mistakes nowadays. What do you say, Adams? Must have it back? A sacred trust! Only lent to
you! All right, take it by all means. I don't want the thing. Well, it is a risky job, and
if any one else had proposed it to me, I'd have told him to go to--Mur. But, Adams, my boy,
you saved my life once, and never sent in a bill, because I was hard up, and I haven't forgotten
that. Also things are pretty hot for me here just now over a certain controversy of which I
suppose you haven't heard in Central Africa. I think I'll go. What do you say, Oliver?"

"Oh!" said Captain Orme, waking up from a reverie, "if you are satisfied, I am. It doesn't
matter to me where I go."

CHAPTER II

THE ADVICE OF SERGEANT QUICK

At this moment a fearful hubbub arose without. The front door slammed, a cab drove off furiously,
a policeman's whistle blew, heavy feet were heard trampling; then came an invocation of "In
the King's name," answered by "Yes, and the Queen's, and the rest of the Royal Family's, and
if you want it, take it, you chuckle-headed, flat-footed, pot-bellied Peelers."

Then followed tumult indescribable as of heavy men and things rolling down the stairs, with
cries of fear and indignation.

"What the dickens is that?" asked Higgs.

"The voice sounded like that of Samuel--I mean Sergeant Quick," answered Captain Orme with
evident alarm; "what can he be after? Oh, I know, it is something to do with that infernal
mummy you unwrapped this afternoon, and asked him to bring round after dinner."

Just then the door burst open, and a tall, soldier-like form stalked in, carrying in his arms
a corpse wrapped in a sheet, which he laid upon the table among the wine glasses.

"I'm sorry, Captain," he said, addressing Orme, "but I've lost the head of the departed. I
think it is at the bottom of the stairs with the police. Had nothing else to defend myself
with, sir, against their unwarranted attacks, so brought the body to the present and charged,
thinking it very stiff and strong, but regret to say neck snapped, and that deceased's head
is now under arrest."

As Sergeant Quick finished speaking, the door opened again, and through it appeared two very
flurried and dishevelled policemen, one of whom held, as far as possible from his person, the
grizzly head of a mummy by the long hair which still adhered to the skull.

"What do you mean by breaking into my rooms like this? Where's your warrant?" asked the indignant
Higgs in his high voice.

"There!" answered the first policeman, pointing to the sheet-wrapped form on the table.

"And here!" added the second, holding up the awful head. "As in duty bound, we ask explanation
from that man of the secret conveyance of a corpse through the open streets, whereon he assaults
us with the same, for which assault, pending investigation of the corpse, I arrest him. Now,
Guv'nor" (addressing Sergeant Quick), "will you come along with us quietly, or must we take you?"

The Sergeant, who seemed to be inarticulate with wrath, made a dash for the shrouded object
on the table, with the intention, apparently, of once more using it as a weapon of offence,
and the policemen drew their batons.

"Stop," said Orme, thrusting himself between the combatants, "are you all mad? Do you know
that this woman died about four thousand years ago?"

"Oh, Lord!" said the policeman who held the head, addressing his companion, "it must be one
of them mummies what they dig up in the British Museum. Seems pretty ancient and spicy, don't
it?" and he sniffed at the head, then set it down upon the table.

Explanations followed, and after the wounded dignity of the two officers of the Force had been
soothed with sundry glasses of port wine and a written list of the names of all concerned,
including that of the mummy, they departed.

"You take my advice, bobbies," I heard the indignant Sergeant declaim outside the door, "and
don't you believe things is always what they seem. A party ain't necessarily drunk because
he rolls about and falls down in the street; he may be mad, or 'ungry, or epileptic, and a
body ain't always a body jest because it's dead and cold and stiff. Why, men, as you've seen,
it may be a mummy, which is quite a different thing. If I was to put on that blue coat of yours,
would that make me a policeman? Good heavens! I should hope not, for the sake of the Army to
which I still belong, being in the Reserve. What you bobbies need is to study human nature
and cultivate observation, which will learn you the difference between a new-laid corpse and
a mummy, and many other things. Now you lay my words to heart, and you'll both of you rise
to superintendents, instead of running in daily 'drunks' until you retire on a pension. Good-night."

Peace having been restored, and the headless mummy removed into the Professor's bedroom, since
Captain Orme declared that he could not talk business in the presence of a body, however ancient,
we resumed our discussion. First of all, at Higgs's suggestion I drew up a brief memorandum
of agreement which set out the objects of the expedition, and provided for the equal division
amongst us of any profit that might accrue; in the event of the death of one or more of us,
the survivors or survivor to take their or his share.

To this arrangement personally I objected, who desired neither treasure nor antiquities, but
only the rescue of my son. The others pointed out, however, that, like most people, I might
in future want something to live on, or that if I did not, in the event of his escape, my boy
certainly would; so in the end I gave way.

Then Captain Orme very sensibly asked for a definition of our respective duties, and it was
settled that I was to be guide to the expedition; Higgs, antiquarian, interpreter, and, on
account of his vast knowledge, general referee; and Captain Orme, engineer and military commander,
with the proviso that, in the event of a difference of opinion, the dissentient was to loyally
accept the decision of the majority.

This curious document having been copied out fair, I signed and passed it to the Professor,
who hesitated a little, but, after refreshing himself with a further minute examination of
Sheba's ring, signed also, remarking that he was an infernal fool for his pains, and pushed
the paper across the table to Orme.

"Stop a minute," said the Captain; "I forgot something. I should like my old servant, Sergeant
Quick, to accompany us. He's a very handy man at a pinch, especially if, as I understand, we
are expected to deal with explosives with which he has had a lot to do in the Engineers and
elsewhere. If you agree I will call him, and ask if he will go. I expect he's somewhere round."

I nodded, judging from the episode of the mummy and the policeman that the Sergeant was likely
to be a useful man. As I was sitting next to it, I opened the door for the Captain, whereon
the erect shape of Sergeant Quick, who had clearly been leaning against it, literally fell
into the room, reminding me much of an overset wooden soldier.

"Hullo!" said Orme as, without the slightest change of countenance, his retainer recovered
himself and stood to attention. "What the deuce are you doing there?"

"Sentry go, Captain. Thought the police might change their minds and come back. Any orders,
Captain?"

"Yes. I am going to North Central Africa. When can you be ready to start?"

"The Brindisi mail leaves to-morrow night, Captain, if you travel by Egypt, but if you go by
Tunis, 7.15 a.m. Saturday is the time from Charing Cross. Only, as I understand that high explosives
and arms have to be provided, these might take awhile to lay in and pack so as to deceive customs."

"You understand!" said Orme. "Pray, how do you understand?"

"Doors in these old houses are apt to get away from their frames, Captain, and the gentleman
there"--and he pointed to the Professor--"has a voice that carries like a dog-whistle. Oh,
no offence, sir. A clear voice is an excellent thing--that is, if the doors fit"--and although
Sergeant Quick's wooden face did not move, I saw his humorous grey eyes twinkle beneath the
bushy eyebrows.

We burst out laughing, including Higgs.

"So you are willing to go?" said Orme. "But I hope you clearly understand that this is a risky
business, and that you may not come back?"

"Spion Kop was a bit risky, Captain, and so was that business in the donga, where every one
was hit except you and me and the sailor man, but we came back, for all that. Begging your
pardon, Captain, there ain't no such thing as risk. Man comes here when he must, and dies when
he must, and what he does between don't make a ha'porth of difference."

"Hear, hear," I said; "we are much of the same way of thinking."

"There have been several who held those views, sir, since old Solomon gave the lady that"--and
he pointed to Sheba's ring, which was lying on the table. "But excuse me, Captain; how about
local allowances? Not having been a marrying man myself, I've none dependent upon me, but,
as you know, I've sisters that have, and a soldier's pension goes with him. Don't think me
greedy, Captain," he added hastily, "but, as you gentlemen understand, black and white at the
beginning saves bother at the end"--and he pointed to the agreement.

"Quite right. What do you want, Sergeant?" asked Orme.

"Nothing beyond my pay, if we get nothing, Captain, but if we get something, would five per
cent. be too much?"

"It might be ten," I suggested. "Sergeant Quick has a life to lose like the rest of us."

"Thank you kindly, sir," he answered; "but that, in my opinion, would be too much. Five per
cent. was what I suggested."

So it was written down that Sergeant Samuel Quick was to receive five per cent. of the total
profits, if any, provided that he behaved himself and obeyed orders. Then he also signed the
agreement, and was furnished with a glass of whisky and water to drink to its good health.

"Now, gentlemen," he said, declining the chair which Higgs offered to him, apparently because,
from long custom, he preferred his wooden-soldier attitude against the wall, "as a humble five-per-cent.
private in this very adventurous company I'll ask permission to say a word." It is a cenotaph in the field funeral, with willows, many flowers
... It is night.

"

- What night?

- I mean, to give melancholy landscape of substance, it should put
everything in some darkness ... There will be water there, there,
far away, a tranquiiiila surface, a polished espeeeejo ... Do you
understand me?

...

- What is it?, "Water glass ...?

- A lake, lady, one, kind of bay. Mind you: the willow branches extend
well ... as if it dripped.

Through the foliage is hard to see the disk of the moon, whose pale
light audience the tops of the distant hills, and produces a temblorcito
... Are you?, A temblorcito on the surface ...

- Oh, yes ... water.

Understood, understood. What happens to you ...!

- Well, madam, for this nice effect would take me a few gray hairs.

- Jesus, gray! ... I giggled trouble you for one thing we have so about ... You see my harvest,
Mr. D. Francisco. I would not want to provide you in such abundance these moonbeams that it
needs ... With this addition (Taking a long and hearty.) gray hair
will not cry you by ...

Brinker took the white lock of hair, and
with the others, oprimiolo all against your chest spasm artist.

He had, oh joy!, Two-tone gold, clear and shiny silver, ebony and sienoso brown and romantic
that it had to be the dominant note.

"What we expect of the righteousness of you - Carolina said, hiding
the distrust with courtesy - is that in no case enter into the work
that is not our hair.

Everything hair has to do with family. "

- Lady, for Christ's sake!

... "I think you can adulterate ...?

- No ... no, if you do not say ... Is that artists, when they are driven by inspiration (Laughing)
lose all idea of ​​morality, and so to achieve an effect ...

- Carolina! ...

He left the house a good friend, feverish and tembliqueante. His epileptic condition of the
artistic gestation. The work, recently embodied in his mind, and with intimate announced rebullicios
I was a living being, and developed potent pressing the walls of the brain and exciting nervous
couple, who had unexplained sensations of choking to breath, to hormiguilla epidermis, a restless
limbs, and being all impatience, fear, I do not know what else ... At the same time his imagination
was given away in advance with the image of the work, already appeared kidding, throbbing,
complete, finished, in the shape of the mold to be. Other times one appeared to be born in
parts, hovering now a member, then another, until all appeared in the entire kingdom of light.
My patient saw the cenotaph of mixed idealistic orders of architecture,
the angel weeping willow with its branches hanging ruefully, as drivel
that you fall into the sky, the flowers all over the floor enamelled,
the terms remote lake with all the sadness and lunacy ... Interrupting
this beautiful vision of non-work cream, flamed in the brain of the
artist as wisps mode (natural add something as funeral), some ideas
atañederas budget work.

Bringas the caressing, by providing care that practical man who did
not rule on spasmodic him the uneasiness of the great creation.

Mentally counting, said:

III

"Shellac: Two and a half reales. A pull all five will spend real ... Florist tongs, as the
ones I have are a bit thick: three real. A very clean glass: real and a half. Four pistils dozens
of very tiny, unless you can make hair, which I will try: two and
a half.

Total: fifteen reais. Then comes the most expensive, which is the convex glass the framework,
but I use the embroidered dog of my cousin Joseph, giving a hand glitter. Finally, with glitter,
convex glass, hanger and unexpected ... come to matter all about twenty-eight to thirty real. " 

The
next day was Sunday, he set to work. Not liking any of the designs funeral monument in his
collection had resolved to make one, but such was not the card by the invention, composed, with
parts taken from different works, the whole securely locked previously described. Willow came to
the tomb of Napoleon in St. Helena, and the angel pouted the mound had been placed in the
Escorial for the funeral of a Women's Fernando VII, and the background was taken from a grabadito
not know what tome Lamartinesco that he was a pure syrup.

Finally, the flowers harvested in Bringas garden of an illustrated book on the language of those
who came from the library Dona Candida.

This preliminary work took the artist drawing an average week, and
was so pleased him, he had granted to himself in the silence of false
modesty, ardent congratulations.

"It's all so typical - Pipaón enthusiastically telling the smart - which seems to be watching
still waters and the rays of the moon making it as a light tickle ...».

Bringas stuck on the drawing board, and put the glass up, adapting and fixing so that no one could
move. This done, the rest was pure work of skill, patience and neatness. Was to be expressed with
hairs stuck on the upper surface of the glass all lines of the drawing underneath was, really
tricky task because of the difficulty to manage something as subtle and elusive as the human hair. At
least the main lines bad, but when it came to represent shadows, lined by more or less fine,
the employed artist series of hair cut to size, which was carefully gluing with shellac, hot
streak to mimic chisel steel plate or boxwood. In very fine inks, Bringas was extreme and subtilized
his art to become what microscope. He was an innovator. No capilífice had discoursed until then
to score points hair, picking this with scissors to get little bodies that appeared to molecules,
and paste then these points near each other, never together, so that would imitate the point of
intaglio. Used for this very fine brushes, and even birds feathers edged with saliva; and
then minced on a glass hair, was taking each point to put in place, previously smeared with paint.
The combination of tones increased the tangled verbosity of this work, since for harmonic results,
it was appropriate to put here brown, black beyond, by this other part blonde, gold angel hair,
silver in all that was below the jurisdiction of the moonlight. But all that blessed triumphed.
And why not, if your hands seemed to not touch things, if vision was like a lynx, and her fingers
had to be fingers of the breeze that caresses the flowers without ajarlas? ... What a devil
of a man! Would been able to do a string of grains of sand, if you put it, or reproduce the cathedral
of Toledo in a hazelnut shell.

The entire month of March took him in the memorial and the willow, whose leaves were sprouting one
by one, and in mid-April was the angel arms and head. Many saw this wonder quedábanse captivated
by the originality and beauty of it and put a D. Francisco between most eminent artists, ensuring
that if he saw such a extranjerazo work, some inglesote rich type that usually come to Spain
in search of good things, give a cheer for her of money and would lead to countries who appreciate
the works of genius.

Bringas had his workshop in the hollow of a huge window overlooking the Campo del Moro ...

Because the family lived in the palace in a second floor rooms that serve shelter employees
of the royal family.

Enthralled with the work of hair, I forgot to say that back in February of 68 D. Francisco was
appointed first officer of the Municipality of Real Heritage with thirty thousand pieces of
salary, medical manor, pharmacy, water, firewood and other advantages inherent in the vicinity
regia. Such canonjía realize the aspirations of his life, and will not change his position so that
Thiers high, safe and respectful to the chair of the Primate of Spain. Embittered his satisfaction
the voices that ran in that year 68 convicted whether or not there horrific conditions, and fear
that the so-called revolution finally broke out with a bang. Although the idea of ​​finishing
of the monarchy always sounded good in the brain of man as an absurd idea, sort of as the imbalance
of the planetary orbs, where in a café or gathering heard predictions
binge, blind ads or gloomy comments about how bad they were the government
and Queen, came a shiver, and his heart contracted until brought to
an, in his opinion, the size of an acorn.

One hundred and twenty four steps needed to upload D. Francisco Women's ladder for get from the
second floor patio of the Palace, which is flat with the third being a true city, set on the
magnificent ceiling of the royal abode. This city, where alternate peacefully aristocracy, middle
class and people, is a real republic that the monarchs have corona, and set into its vast circuit,
keeps samples of all different kinds of people. The first time D. Manuel Pez and I went to
visit in his new Bringas home, we were lost in this labyrinth where neither he nor I had ever entered.
Stepping its first site, entering the ladder of Damas, a goalkeeper with three-cornered hat,
after the descent take us, indiconos the way we had to continue to give the our friend's house. "They
twist you left, then right ... There is a ladder.

Then down again ... Number 67.

"

IV

That if you want! ... We walked through the hallway of red tiles, which I call street or alley
in its magnitude, being lighting in some areas with gas burners and the angles and turns it
does. Here and there we found spaces, which no doubt called squares, flooded with sunlight, which
came through big holes open to patio.

The light of day, reflected by the white walls, penetrated along the walkways, alleys, tunnels or whatever
call them, are lost and fainted in them, to death in full view of the red gas fans, that fluttered
trembling within a circle and smoked under a brass canopy.

Found ourselves everywhere paneled doors, some freshly painted, faded and moth-eaten other,
numbered: but in any discovered the figure that we sought. This saw pending a luxurious silk
cord, removal of the upholstery palace, in that a frayed string. With such a sign accusing some fix
and clean homes, other disorder or lack; and pieces of carpet mat poking out under the doors
also told us aposentación something special in the interior. Unoccupied homes found ourselves
with cobwebbed doors, rusty gates, and some holes covered with wire netting blowing broken bringing
us the mist the air stays cold lonely. In certain places we went to neighborhoods seemed abandoned,
and the vaults of unequal height sad echo returned sound of our footsteps. We climbed a ladder,
go down another, and I think we turn up, as resolved to seek for ourselves the lucky number, not
wondering any passerby preferring the pleasure of exploration effort as mysterious places. The
idea of ​​losing not annoyed us much, because beforehand savored the taste hand out at last
port without the help of practical and by virtue of our own topographical instinct. The labyrinth
us appealed, and on, on forever, we were soon lit by the sun and by the gas, describing angles
and more angles.

Here and there on some open ventanón terrace we corrected the defects of our defeat, and looking
at the dome of the chapel fijábamos orientábamos us and our true position.

"Here - Pez said impatient - you can not come without a blueprint and navigational compass. This
should The wing of the South.

Look at the ceilings of the Hall of Columns and the stairs ... What moles! ".

Indeed, large pyramidal shapes lead lined showed us the big roofs in which the bottom surface
are Volatín Bayeu Angelone.

At best, always walk, we were in a confined area that received the light of skylights in the roof
open, and we had to go back for departure. Looking outside the correct mass of the castle, do not
understand the irregularities that made people in its upper floors. Is that over a century there
has not been done more to modify a troche and early distribution Moche, walling around here, opening
there, condemning stairs widening some rooms at the expense of other, turning the street into
housing and housing street, boring walls and closing gaps.

There are stairs that begin and no end; lobbies or squares that are whitewashed room ceilings
were lower. There lofts where once there were rooms, and rooms that were once a graceful staircase
box. The snail is found at various points, without knowing where they are going to stop, and
doors septate, hollow with chicken wire, behind which is no more loneliness, dust and darkness.

A
place where we Pez said: "This is a popular neighborhood." We saw a half dozen boys soldiers
playing with paper hats, cane swords and rifles. Further, in a wide space and lit by large picture
window with bars, ropes to dry clothes on us forced to lower his head to keep going. On the
walls are not painted dolls missing or improper registrations.

Not a few doors of the houses were open, and through them saw cooking
with steaming pots and borders the shelves edged paper.

Some women washing clothes in large coffers, others were combing
out of doors, as it were, in the middle of the street.

"Van you lost" - told us that big boy was holding a yellow cloth wrapped.

-
We search the house of D. Francisco Bringas.

- Bringas?

... ya, I know - said an old woman who was sitting next to the big
gate -. Here nearby.

You have no more to go down the spiral staircase first and then make
a U- back ... Bringas, yes, the sexton of the chapel.

- What are
you saying, ma'am?

We seek the first official of the Administration.

- Then it will
be down on the terrace.

You know you go to the source?

- No.

- Do you know the steps of Cáceres?

- Nor.

- Do you know the chapel?

- Do not know anything.

- And the chorus of the oratorio? What pigeon?

Result: did not know any part of that labyrinthine village made of corners, Burladero and surprises,
fancy architecture and mockery of symmetry. But our inability not gave up, and reject offers
of a boy who wanted to be our guide.

"We are on the wing of the Plaza de Oriente, to wit, in the opposite hemisphere that lives our friend
- Fish said with some emphasis geographic character of Jules Verne -. Resolve to move to the
West Wing, for which we offer insurance counseling through the dome the Chapel and the ceiling
of the staircase. Once possessed of the body of the West, we be foolish not to give the house Bringas.
I'm not going back over here without a good map, Compass ... and provisions of mouth. "

Before leaving for this second stage of our journey, we look for the beautiful ventanón overview
of the Plaza de Oriente and the part of Madrid that since there is discovered, with more than
fifty domes, steeples and bell towers.

Philip IV's horse seemed like a toy Teatro Real a hut, and the upper surface of the cornice
of a wide bridge Palace over the precipice, where he could run comfortably not suffer vertigo. Below
from where we were the pigeons had their nests, whom we watch rush into the deep abyss of the Plaza,
in pairs or in groups, and super fast then curve up to perch on capitals and moldings. Their lullabies
seem so inherent to the building as the stones that compose it. In the infinite hollow mountain
that lives made the savage republic pigeons, occupying it with regional and uncontested dominion.
They are parasites that live between wrinkles in the epidermis of the colossus. It is well
known that care nothing for the revolution; or that free air, or that secular rock is nothing
that disturbs the domain augusto these queens unchallenged and incontrovertible.

Walk.

Pez had acquired in the geographic notions Verne booklets, they are missed practical and every
step I said, "Now we are on the south ... We necessarily find the passage from west to our right
... We can go down without fear of this second floor staircase Spiral
... Well ... Where are we? You do not see the dome, not a sad lightning.
We in the dark realms of gas ... Then go back up by this other step
that comes at hand ... What is this? "We are again in the East wing?
Yes, because looking the courtyard through the window, the dome is
our right ... Believe me, this forest chimneys cause me dizziness.
I seem to navigate and that all this mass tumbles like a boat. On
this side seems to be the source, because women come and go with pitchers
... Ea, I I pay, I ask practical, I do not give a step further ...
We walked more than half a league and I can not with my body ... A
guide, a guide, and take me out of here soon. "

Providence deparonos
our salvation in the person of considerable Garcia's widow Grande,
which suddenly seemed out of one of the ugliest and most rusty doors
saw that on our side.

Then, having relieved his mind, the Sergeant ran his eye over our equipment to see that nothing
had been forgotten, rapidly assured himself that the rifles were in working order, reported
all well, and returned to his dishes. Little did any of us guess under what circumstances we
should next meet with him.

After leaving the town and marching for a mile or so along the oasis, accompanied by a mob
of the Zeus armed with spears and bows, we were led by the bereaved chief, who also acted as
tracker, out into the surrounding sands. The desert here, although I remembered it well enough,
was different from any that we had yet encountered upon this journey, being composed of huge
and abrupt sand-hills, some of which were quite three hundred feet high, separated from each
other by deep, wind-cut valleys.

For a distance, while they were within reach of the moist air of the oasis, these sand-mountains
produced vegetation of various sorts. Presently, however, we passed out into the wilderness
proper, and for a while climbed up and down the steep, shifting slopes, till from the crest
of one of them the chief pointed out what in South Africa is called a pan, or vlei, covered
with green reeds, and explained by signs that in these lay the lions. Descending a steep declivity,
we posted ourselves, I at the top, and Higgs and Orme a little way down either side of this
vlei. This done, we dispatched the Zeus to beat it out towards us, for although the reeds grew
thick along the course of the underground water, it was but a narrow place, and not more than
a quarter of a mile in length.

Scarcely had the beaters entered the tall reeds, evidently with trepidation, for a good many
of them held back from the adventure, when a sound of loud wailing informed us that something
had happened. A minute or two later we saw two of them bearing away what appeared to be the
mangled remains of the chief's son who had been carried off on the previous night.

Just then, too, we saw something else, for half-way down the marsh a great male lion broke
cover, and began to steal off toward the sand-hills. It was about two hundred yards from Higgs,
who chanced to be nearest to it, and, therefore, as any big-game hunter will know, for practical
purposes, far out of shot. But the Professor, who was quite unaccustomed to this, or, indeed,
any kind of sport, and, like all beginners, wildly anxious for blood, lifted his rifle and
fired, as he might have done at a rabbit. By some marvellous accident the aim was good, and
the bullet from the express, striking the lion fair behind the shoulder, passed through its
heart, and knocked it over dead as a stone.

"By Jingo! Did you see that?" screamed Higgs in his delight. Then, without even stopping to
reload the empty barrel, he set off at the top of his speed toward the prostrate beast, followed
by myself and by Orme, as fast as our astonishment would allow.

Running along the edge of the marsh, Higgs had covered about a hundred yards of the distance,
when suddenly, charging straight at him out of the tall reeds, appeared a second lion, or rather
lioness. Higgs wheeled round, and wildly fired the left barrel of his rifle without touching
the infuriated brute. Next instant, to our horror, we saw him upon his back, with the lioness
standing over him, lashing her tail, and growling.

We shouted as we ran, and so did the Zeus, although they made no attempt at rescue, with the
result that the lioness, instead of tearing Higgs to pieces, turned her head confusedly first
to one side and then to the other. By now I, who had a long start of Orme, was quite close,
say within thirty yards, though fire I dared not as yet, fearing lest, should I do so, I might
kill my friend. At this moment the lioness, recovering her nerves, squatted down on the prostrate
Higgs, and though he hit at her with his fists, dropped her muzzle, evidently with the intention
of biting him through the head.

Now I felt that if I hesitated any more, all would be finished. The lioness was much longer
than Higgs--a short, stout man--and her hind quarters projected beyond his feet. At these I
aimed rapidly, and, pressing the trigger, next second heard the bullet clap upon the great
beast's hide. Up she sprang with a roar, one hind leg dangling, and after a moment's hesitation,
fled toward the sand-hill.

Now Orme, who was behind me, fired also, knocking up the dust beneath the lioness's belly,
but although he had more cartridges in his rifle, which was a repeater, before either he or
I could get another chance, it vanished behind a mound. Leaving it to go where it would, we
ran on towards Higgs, expecting to find him either dead or badly mauled, but, to our amazement
and delight, up jumped the Professor, his blue spectacles still on his nose, and, loading his
rifle as he went, charged away after the wounded lioness.

"Come back," shouted the Captain as he followed.

"Not for Joe!" yelled Higgs in his high voice. "If you fellows think that I'm going to let
a great cat sit on my stomach for nothing, you are jolly well mistaken."

At the top of the first rise the long-legged Orme caught him, but persuade him to return was
more than he, or I when I arrived, could do. Beyond a scratch on his nose, which had stung
him and covered him with blood, we found that he was quite uninjured, except in temper and
dignity. But in vain did we beg him to be content with his luck and the honours he had won.

"Why?" he answered, "Adams wounded the beast, and I'd rather kill two lions than one; also
I have a score to square. But if you fellows are afraid, you go home."

Well, I confess I felt inclined to accept the invitation, but Orme, who was nettled, replied:

"Come, come; that settles the question, doesn't it? You must be shaken by your fall, or you
would not talk like that, Higgs. Look, here runs the spoor--see the blood? Well, let's go steady
and keep our wind. We may come on her anywhere, but don't you try any more long distance shots.
You won't kill another lion at two hundred and fifty yards."

"All right," said Higgs, "don't be offended. I didn't mean anything, except that I am going
to teach that beast the difference between a white man and a Zeu."

Then we began our march, following the blood tracks up and down the steep sand-slopes. When
we had been at it for about half-an-hour our spirits were cheered by catching sight of the
lioness on a ridge five hundred yards away. Just then, too, some of the Zeus overtook us and
joined the hunt, though without zeal.

Meanwhile, as the day grew, the heat increased until it was so intense that the hot air danced
above the sand slopes like billions of midges, and this although the sun was not visible, being
hidden by a sort of mist. A strange silence, unusual even in the desert, pervaded the earth
and sky; we could hear the grains of sand trickling from the ridges. The Zeus, who accompanied
us, grew uneasy, and pointed upward with their spears, then behind toward the oasis of which
we had long lost sight. Finally, when we were not looking, they disappeared.

Now I would have followed them, guessing that they had some good reason for this sudden departure.
But Higgs refused to come, and Orme, in whom his foolish taunt seemed still to rankle, only
shrugged his shoulders and said nothing.

"Let the black curs go," exclaimed the Professor as he polished his blue spectacles and mopped
his face. "They are a white-livered lot of sneaks. Look! There she is, creeping off to the
left. If we run round that sand-hill we shall meet her."

So we ran round the sand-hill, but we did not meet her, although after long hunting we struck
the blood spoor afresh, and followed it for several miles, first in this direction, and then
in that, until Orme and I wondered at Higgs's obstinacy and endurance. At length, when even
he was beginning to despair, we put up the lioness in a hollow, and fired several shots at
her as she hobbled over the opposing slope, one of which hit her, for she rolled over, then
picked herself up again, roaring. As a matter of fact, it came from the Captain's rifle, but
Higgs, who, like many an inexperienced person was a jealous sportsman, declared that it was
his and we did not think it worth while to contradict him.

On we toiled, and, just beyond the ridge, walked straight into the lioness, sitting up like
a great dog, so injured that she could do nothing but snarl hideously and paw at the air.

"Now it is my turn, old lady," ejaculated Higgs, and straightway missed her clean from a distance
of five yards. A second shot was more successful, and she rolled over, dead.

"Come on," said the exultant Professor, "and we'll skin her. She sat on me, and I mean to sit
on her for many a day."

So we began the job, although I, who had large experience of this desert, and did not like
the appearance of the weather, wished to leave the beast where it lay and get back to the oasis.
It proved long, for I was the only one of us who had any practical knowledge of flaying animals,
and in that heat extremely unpleasant.

At length it was done, and, having doubled the hide over a rifle for two of us to carry in
turns, we refreshed ourselves from the water-bottles (I even caught the Professor washing the
blood off his face and hands with some of the precious fluid). Then we started for the oasis,
only to discover, though we were all sure that we knew the way, that not one of us had a slightest
idea of its real direction. In the hurry of our departure we had forgotten to bring a compass,
and the sun, that would have been our guide in ordinary circumstances, and to which we always
trusted in the open desert, was hidden by the curious haze that has been described.

So, sensibly enough, we determined to return to the sand crest where we had killed the lioness,
and then trace our own footprints backward. This seemed simple enough, for there, within half-a-mile,
rose the identical ridge.

We reached it, grumbling, for the lion-skin was heavy, only to discover that it was a totally
different ridge. Now, after reflection and argument, we saw our exact mistake, and made for
what was obviously the real ridge--with the same result.

We were lost in the desert!

CHAPTER IV

THE DEATH WIND

"The fact is," said Higgs presently, speaking with the air of an oracle, "the fact is that
all these accursed sand-hills are as like each other as mummy beads on the same necklace, and
therefore it is very difficult to know them apart. Give me that water-bottle, Adams; I am as
dry as a lime-kiln."

"No," I said shortly; "you may be drier before the end."

"What do you mean? Oh! I see; but that's nonsense; those Zeus will hunt us up, or, at the worst,
we have only to wait till the sun gets out."

As he spoke, suddenly the air became filled with a curious singing sound impossible to describe,
caused as I knew, who had often heard it before, by millions and millions of particles of sand
being rubbed together. We turned to see whence it came, and perceived, far away, rushing towards
us with extraordinary swiftness, a huge and dense cloud preceded by isolated columns and funnels
of similar clouds.

"A sand-storm," said Higgs, his florid face paling a little. "Bad luck for us! That's what
comes of getting out of bed the wrong side first this morning. No, it's your fault, Adams;
you helped me to salt last night, in spite of my remonstrances" (the Professor has sundry little
superstitions of this sort, particularly absurd in so learned a man). "Well, what shall we
do? Get under the lee of the hill until it blows over?"

"Don't suppose it will blow over. Can't see anything to do except say our prayers," remarked
Orme with sweet resignation. Oliver is, I think, the coolest hand in an emergency of any one
I ever met, except, perhaps, Sergeant Quick, a man, of course, nearly old enough to be his
father. "The game seems to be pretty well up," he added. "Well, you have killed two lions,
Higgs, and that is something."

"Oh, hang it! You can die if you like, Oliver. The world won't miss you; but think of its loss
if anything happened to me. I don't intend to be wiped out by a beastly sand-storm. I intend
to live to write a book on Mur," and Higgs shook his fist at the advancing clouds with an air
that was really noble. It reminded me of Ajax defying the lightning.

Meanwhile I had been reflecting.

"Listen," I said. "Our only chance is to stop where we are, for if we move we shall certainly
be buried alive. Look; there is something solid to lie on," and I pointed to a ridge of rock,
a kind of core of congealed sand, from which the surface had been swept by gales. "Down with
you, quick," I went on, "and let's draw that lion-skin over our heads. It may help to keep
the dust from choking us. Hurry, men; it's coming!"

Coming, it was indeed, with a mighty, wailing roar. Scarcely had we got ourselves into position,
our backs to the blast and our mouths and noses buried after the fashion of camels in a similar
predicament, the lion-skin covering our heads and bodies to the middle, with the paws tucked
securely beneath us to prevent it from being blown away, when the storm leaped upon us furiously,
bringing darkness in its train. There we lay for hour after hour, unable to see, unable to
talk because of the roaring noise about us, and only from time to time lifting ourselves a
little upon our hands and knees to disturb the weight of sand that accumulated on our bodies,
lest it should encase us in a living tomb.

Dreadful were the miseries we suffered--the misery of the heat beneath the stinking pelt of
the lion, the misery of the dust-laden air that choked us almost to suffocation, the misery
of thirst, for we could not get at our scanty supply of water to drink. But worst of all perhaps,
was the pain caused by the continual friction of the sharp sand driven along at hurricane speed,
which, incredible as it may seem, finally wore holes in our thin clothing and filed our skins
to rawness.

"No wonder the Egyptian monuments get such a beautiful shine on them," I heard poor Higgs muttering
in my ear again and again, for he was growing light-headed; "no wonder, no wonder! My shin-bones
will be very useful to polish Quick's tall riding-boots. Oh! curse the lions. Why did you help
me to salt, you old ass; why did you help me to salt? It's pickling me behind."

Then he became quite incoherent, and only groaned from time to time.

Perhaps, however, this suffering did us a service, since otherwise exhaustion, thirst, and
dust might have overwhelmed our senses, and caused us to fall into a sleep from which we never
should have awakened. Yet at the time we were not grateful to it, for at last the agony became
almost unbearable. Was the main clause, and certainly Mr. de Torquemada what counted
as safe ...

And hearing this, the lady weighed in his mind the difficulties of the case, more serious this time
who had been in other similar. Needless to say, then say certain things in themselves that
the attorney failed to Milagros Rosalia 4 or 5, or any other day of August what that was promised.
Candida should not expect more than fantasies. Who turn your eyes? Bringas those seen, and it was
crazy to think again subtract any amount domestic treasury. Talk to your husband frankly and
confess his weakness would have been perhaps the best, but it was also the most difficult. Well
it would! ... It would be something to rent balconies to hear. Since Bringas found out their entanglements,
would a period of repression strong Rosalia terrified that most troubles that passed! His plan
was to emancipate little little and in no way tied to authority bonds tighter ... Would manage
alone, as God gave him to understand. God does not leave her, because
sometimes there was not abandoned.

Since becoming the 25, felt in his whole being itching, fever, suspicion, and his lips liked bitter
gall. The idea of ​​commitment that he would not let her see a moment free, and any calculation
took her to the probability of a convenient ... If fish again soon! ... He, who had offered
him so many times ...! But remembering what that surly he was at the time of yore, afraid
that, on returning to Madrid, his distinguished friend does not he
were so disposed to the bounty ... "Oh, no - he said then - I've gone
mad. He'll do whatever I want. "

"Water would save him," I said.

Then came the anxious moment. One of our water-bottles was emptied before the storm began,
but the other, a large, patent flask covered with felt, and having a screw vulcanite top, should
still contain a good quantity, perhaps three quarts--that is, if the fluid had not evaporated
in the dreadful heat. If this had happened, it meant that Higgs would die, and unless help
came, that soon we should follow him. Orme unscrewed the flask, for my hands refused that office,
and used his teeth to draw the cork, which, providentially enough the thoughtful Quick had
set in the neck beneath the screw. Some of the water, which, although it was quite hot, had
not evaporated, thank God! flew against his parched lips, and I saw him bite them till the
blood came in the fierceness of the temptation to assuage his raging thirst. But he resisted
it like the man he is, and, without drinking a drop, handed me the bottle, saying simply:

"You are the oldest; take care of this, Adams."

Now it was my turn to be tempted, but I, too, overcame, and, sitting down, laid Higgs's head
upon my knee; then, drop by drop, let a little of the water trickle between his swollen lips.

The effect was magical, for in less than a minute the Professor sat up, grasped at the flask
with both hands, and strove to tear it away.

"You cruel brute! You cruel selfish brute!" he moaned as I wrenched it from him.

"Look here, Higgs," I answered thickly; "Orme and I want water badly enough, and we have had
none. But you might take it all if it would save you, only it wouldn't. We are lost in the
desert, and must be sparing. If you drank everything now, in a few hours you would be thirsty
again and die."

He thought awhile, then looked up and said:

"Beg pardon--I understand. I'm the selfish brute. But there's a good lot of water there; let's
each have a drink; we can't move unless we do."

So we drank, measuring out the water in a little india-rubber cup which we had with us. It
held about as much as a port wine glass, and each of us drank, or rather slowly sipped, three
cupfuls; we who felt as though we could have swallowed a gallon apiece, and asked for more.
Small as was the allowance, it worked wonders in us; we were men again.

We stood up and looked about us, but the great storm had changed everything. Where there had
been sand-hills a hundred feet high, now were plains and valleys; where there had been valleys
appeared sand-hills. Only the high ridge upon which we had lain was as before, because it stood
above the others and had a core of rock. We tried to discover the direction of the oasis by
the position of the sun, only to be baffled, since our two watches had run down, and we did
not know the time of day or where the sun ought to be in the heavens. Also, in that howling
wilderness there was nothing to show us the points of the compass.

Higgs, whose obstinacy remained unimpaired, whatever may have happened to the rest of his vital
forces, had one view of the matter, and Orme another diametrically opposed to it. They even
argued as to whether the oasis lay to our right or to our left, for their poor heads were so
confused that they were scarcely capable of accurate thought or observation. Meanwhile I sat
down upon the sand and considered. Through the haze I could see the points of what I thought
must be the hills whence the Zeus declared that the lions came, although of course, for aught
I knew, they might be other hills.

"Listen," I said; "if lions live upon those hills, there must be water there. Let us try to
reach them; perhaps we shall see the oasis as we go."

Then began our dreadful march. The lion-skin that had saved our lives, and was now baked hard
as a board, we left behind, but the rifles we took. All day long we dragged ourselves up and
down steep sand-slopes, pausing now again to drink a sip of water, and hoping always that from
the top of the next slope we should see a rescue party headed by Quick, or perhaps the oasis
itself. Indeed, once we did see it, green and shining, not more than three miles away, but
when we got to the head of the hill beyond which it should lie we found that the vision was
only a mirage, and our hearts nearly broke with disappointment. Oh! to men dying of thirst,
that mirage was indeed a cruel mockery.

At length night approached, and the mountains were yet a long way off. We could march no more,
and sank down exhausted, lying on our faces, because our backs were so cut by the driving sand
and blistered by the sun that we could not sit. By now almost all our water was gone. Suddenly
Higgs nudged us and pointed upwards. Following the line of his hand, we saw, not thirty yards
away and showing clear against the sky, a file of antelopes trekking along the sand-ridge,
doubtless on a night journey from one pasturage to another.

"You fellows shoot," he muttered; "I might miss and frighten them away," for in his distress
poor Higgs was growing modest.

Slowly Orme and I drew ourselves to our knees, cocking our rifles. By this time all the buck
save one had passed; there were but six of them, and this one marched along about twenty yards
behind the others. Orme pulled the trigger, but his rifle would not go off because, as he discovered
afterwards, some sand had worked into the mechanism of the lock.

Meanwhile I had also covered the buck, but the sunset dazzled my weakened eyes, and my arms
were feeble; also my terrible anxiety for success, since I knew that on this shot hung our
lives, unnerved me. But it must be now or never; in three more paces the beast would be down
the dip.

I fired, and knowing that I had missed, turned sick and faint. The antelope bounded forward
a few yards right to the edge of the dip; then, never having heard such a sound before, and
being overcome by some fatal curiosity, stopped and turned around, staring at the direction
whence it had come.

Despairingly I fired again, almost without taking aim, and this time the bullet went in beneath
the throat, and, raking the animal, dropped it dead as a stone. We scrambled to it, and presently
were engaged in an awful meal of which we never afterwards liked to think. Happily for us that
antelope must have drunk water not long before.

Our hunger and thirst assuaged after this horrible fashion, we slept awhile by the carcase,
then arose extraordinarily refreshed, and, having cut off some hunks of meat to carry with
us, started on again. By the position of the stars, we now knew that the oasis must lie somewhere
to the east of us; but as between us and it there appeared to be nothing but these eternal
sand-hills stretching away for many miles, and as in front of us toward the range the character
of the desert seemed to be changing, we thought it safer, if the word safety can be used in
such a connection, to continue to head for that range. All the remainder of this night we marched,
and, as we had no fuel wherewith to cook it, at dawn ate some of the raw meat, which we washed
down with the last drops of our water.

Now we were out of the sand-hills, and had entered on a great pebbly plain that lay between
us and the foot of the mountains. These looked quiet close, but in fact were still far off.
Feebly and ever more feebly we staggered on, meeting no one and finding no water, though here
and there we came across little bushes, of which we chewed the stringy and aromatic leaves
that contained some moisture, but drew up our mouths and throats like alum.

Higgs, who was the softest of us, gave out the first, though to the last he struggled forward
with surprising pluck, even after he had been obliged to throw away his rifle, because he could
no longer carry it, though this we did not notice at the time. When he could not support himself
upon his feet, Orme took him by one arm, and I by the other, and helped him on, much as I have
seen two elephants do by a wounded companion of the herd.

Half-an-hour or so later my strength failed me also. Although advanced in years, I am tough
and accustomed to the desert and hardships; who would not be who had been a slave to the Khalifa?
But now I could do no more, and halting, begged the others to go on and leave me. Orme's only
answer was to proffer me his left arm. I took it, for life is sweet to us all, especially when
one has something to live for--a desire to fulfil as I had, though to tell the truth, even
at the time I felt ashamed of myself. His smile made Rosalia cloying effect of a fluid miasmatic seeping into
her and made her sick. And how impertinent nose girl, and how tiresome resobarse the skill of the
beard, as if to draw from it some substance! Man guapín, Rosalie was always indifferent, it seemed
then that a nice executioner presented with the rope and Hopa.

XVIII

And it did not come little urgency to this!

... What a point! By day 14 without fault required that. But before I could be delayed even a day
or an hour because his honor was committed Mompous's house, and if that Rosalie could not comply,
would be pointed to request Mr Money Francisco.

"By God ... do not say such nonsense. Jesus! ... You have gone crazy, "stammered the Rosalia
shaking and upset. "

He returned to take their accounts for the hundredth time. Not even selling things that did
not want to sell, could raise the sum. Had brought the lights up some numbers, but some of them
I had spent the good lady to buy trinkets to make up to four children. If Miracles would have returned
those six hundred actual anticipated him to pay the jeweler ...! Yes, it was necessary that
they be returned. They are strictly ask. If art Devil, or rather by a miracle of His Divine Majesty,
Candida had some money ...! Candida five dollars owed Rosalie lent to turn a ticket for a hundred
crowns. Even those lost were real return to the fold. Using energy purposes, went to the Marquise.
Accident fatal! The Marquise was at a religious function, that costs with other ladies. Ninth
was a dedicated patron saint I do not know why, with Manifesto Season, Rosary, Sermon, Ninth, Joys
of the Holy, Holy God and Reserve. Went beyond Rosalia eager to see her friend that afternoon.
The street was full of smart cars. In the church, made a blaze of gold, with velvet curtains
cheap, paper borders golden spotlight thousand, huge bouquets of cloth and a flag that resembled
theater third order, there was such competition, it was very difficult to penetrate it. Rosalie
did open way through the elegant crowd, but could not get to where she was the Marchioness which
had been perched in the sanctuary, near the priests. He spent long, long time, during Rosalia which
sermon he heard half pathetic, piping, a stew of cliches sauce theatrical gesture, he heard guttural
cantorrios more or less, and finally did so late, but so late that desperate to see the end of
the long role, had to leave without speaking Milagros. The poor lady was a martyr for the intolerable
methods of her husband, and not could delay his return home, because if the food was not on
the table when accurate, D. Francisco snorted and said nasty things, such as "Daughter, I
have died from weakness. Warns again, and eat alone. "

The night passed very uneasy, and the next day, June 13, around midnight,
when was preparing to visit his friend, here presented is, startled,
saying the expression on his face that something extraordinary was
happening, and it will say so, not only plastic neglect it, but the
confusion of voices and other spasmodic symptoms.

Rosalia part of that shock when she heard him say:

"Ah, friend of my soul, what conflict I am! If you do not me out for the good ...».

- Me? - Said Bringas away, then realized it was a money problem like
yours -.

Just you come in good time ... If you knew ... I was there.

- Home? ... I'll tell you what is going to be sorry for me, very sorry.

Tomorrow I have dinner dance, a feast of family, absolutely indispensable. I have given away
invitations ... You'll see what disappointment! Daughter, by God you give me a glass of water
because I can not speak. I have something here that my breath away ... (After swallowing a few
mouthfuls of water.) To avoid headaches, custom dinner at Bonelli. Yesterday I sent for him. I fix
it easily, but that, with all his impudence, I require that I have to pay three dinners that are
owed. I rather like, just imagine if I like you should ... Ah, believe you, my mariducho's fault
that we live this way ... But let what he said. What was I saying? You do not know how my head.
Ah! In view of the requirement Bonelli, sent this morning to Trouchín, the Arenal Street, which
never helped me nothing, I propose serve dinner tomorrow, I adjust, we agree, but the convicted
Would you believe?, With many courtesies and glibly tells me that if you do not pay in advance no
dinner ... This is already an insult. I've never been anything like it ... I'll tell you.
Is The cabinets are all about. Bonelli was undoubtedly to prevent and take Trouchín the story
that I had three dinners. It's a conspiracy against me, a plot ... While you look, they were
right, dear, "but I do fault I have? That man incapable, my maridillo ...! As you say it is
little. It is properly incalumniable ... Yesterday I had to pay a account of his tailor, who
had hung the bell on the front door ... That You see my situation, advise me, indicate to any output.

Rosalia,
with humble reasons, unable to compass told her friend that labyrinth, mostly when she was in
a similar predicament, and had one day to recover ... those hundred real ...

"Oh, yes, I remember it perfectly ... The day before I lay down on the purse to bring them you
... excuse me ... but before leaving home, was presented the collector of the Congregation with
the receipt of my share for the function of yesterday y. .. daughter
of my soul, I had no choice loosen ... By the way, yesterday I saw
you in church, and I felt that there was a to let me see some things.

Bonitísima function, but you do not see how mess? The cucurbit went to church with that loud of
snuff-colored dress that seems a habit of the order of stagnation. The home uniform. The San Salomó
was also very noisy. I've seen in my life more pouf, and although they say that the trend Fashion
is increase, I think the church calls for restraint on this. Nothing I mean the bearing studs
so great ... Why, and tail? ... As for me ... Have you looked at me right? You could not ask
for more simplicity ... But back to my suit, my dear. Did not advise me you something? Runs through
me, for I have become like a fool. If I meet here tomorrow the question, I'm lost ... Believe me
is to commit suicide. "

Out of curiosity, asked her friend Rosalia what I needed, and hearing him say that about nine
or rather ten thousand reais, put a grumpy face the tribulation which increased the already Milagros
so troubled.

"Ah, how little encouragement you give me ... And to make matters worse, yesterday afternoon I
was Eponine a scandal. If what happens to me does not happen to anyone ... I have put some
accounts ... of as loud ... For a creature of two thousand reales!,
And accoutrements of that gown, just accoutrements, 1500!

... Is to kill ...».

"Ten thousand reais! - Rosalie muttered looking down and counting the syllables like coins -.
With the fifth I would have enough. "

- Say you, D. Milagros Francisco ...-- said with animation, suggesting
that the blessed Bringas must have savings.

- Shut up you by God!

If you knew my husband said the other terrified ...-- -. These things take him crazy.

- And Candida? ...

- Holy Mother!

- It could happen ... I forgot to tell you, expending three or four little things, I can have
four thousand. I only need six.

- Impossible to all impossibility.

- That Milagros Torres ...-- muttered, my mouth was dry, the tongue stuck to her palate.

- Jesus! Torres!

... Rosalie said what nonsense !...-- watching stand up to it, as a fantastic appearance, the
image of his creditor -. I do not know if I told you that morning before of the twelve ...
Alas, it was crazy to buy that cape. You see ... What need I had these drownings?

- It's a bargain, daughter - said the Marchesa with that condescending tone and indulgent I knew
to take when it suited him -. If I leave my conflict, such that you futesa so hurry, run to me.
(Going over to her friend and squeezing his arm.) Don Francisco should be very parné saved unproductive
money, ounce for ounce, a style palette. What a big delay! That's the country as it is, because
capital flows, because all the cash is in the coffers, with no benefit to anyone, not to the possessor.
D. Francisco is among those who believe that money must be raised
cobwebs.

In this his significant your husband is like the locals rich.

Why do not you suggest something? I pay what I need ... means, with the interest due, and through
a formal obligation. I do not want ...!

- I doubt that Bringas ...

- (With heat.) Well, daughter has to have some influence you about
it ... Well, no more missing.

Are you stupid?

In saying, "man, for God's sake, that money gives us nothing." Y hard, hard, to learn. Or do not
have character ...? I thought that he consulted you all, and let himself be dominated by who
wins in intelligence and government ... Let's see, decide proposed. What this says: if we
fix the runs you piquillo my account. (Laughing) I consider as brokerage.

- I doubt that my husband ... Quia impossible ..!

But even impossible to believe what had happened to his ingenious friend, Rosalie pondered about
it. The same insuperable difficulty of the case drew its spirit, such as large problems captivate
and fascinate the above understandings. For a while nothing was heard in Gasparini louder than
the sighs of Hacking Pipaón and some of the Marchioness, which bronchi was not in the best
condition. As the two friends were alone in the house; Bringas had not returned from the office,
or school children, could speak freely their troubles without mystery of them. Telleria turned to
doze his proposal, strengthened with weighty reasons (oh, dead hands money is the cause of backwardness
of the nation!) and very cucas flattery: but he persisted in considering
Bringas proposal as one of the most difficult and rugged that could
be offered to the will human.

Only attack it was like climbing to the heights of heroism. In their own state followed the two when
he appeared Candida, very cheerful and plump. He came to see His Majesty and Dona Tula, and
later, had been in kitchens where the chef was determined to make entrecotes accept three
and a pair of partridges. "Things ...». Galland He was not tired of gifts, and not to offend, she said,
"Well, what I get on home."

"Then I'll send you a partridge and two entrecotes - Rosalie told whipping with his range -.
No, do not thank me ... If I do not have to prove.

A spare me meat ... Yesterday I shared between the neighbors a great steak I ordered to bring
the Plaza del Carmen, waiting have guests ... If you could see how
grateful these poor people ...!

My house is the Charity. The day I moved in that room have to run through there many tears. "

XIX

And then, taking their ideas to a very different field of charity, but also very interesting,
let's say that the letter is copied:

"Will I be able to tell you where and how and in what way could I put a little money an amount
I have left? ... That is a sure thing and a moderate intake ...».

The effect that these clauses were in the two friends was not as great
as was expected.

In Rosalie's face painted indifferent incredulity, it was resolved soon after in alarm, remembering
that the loan of five dollars requested a month earlier by Candida was had a preamble like
he had just heard. Milagros, without confidence in what the Grande García said, suspected that
there was some truth in it, or whatever it is, was justified to the
absurd as the desperate grasps at straws.

"But tell me, Candida ... "That money will you have?".

- My daughter, do not be a material ... I have not exactly in his pocket, but as if I had ...
One of these days you have to bring me Muñoz and Sones ...

- (With dismay.) One of these days ... now.

- And I usually think things over time ... Frankly, I like to have large sums at home, because
even in this neighborhood are palatial bad people ...

Without regard to projects of Candida rentier, Milagros watched the dress. At that time, the illustrious
widow began to decline noticeably in her bearing and the cleaning and repair of their clothes,
but had not arrived, nor much, sorry extreme neglect that we have known it later.

The children entered school, and Rosalie was to give them a snack.

"How cute is Isabelita!" - Said Milagros Candida, and some say, are directed towards Columns, left
alone with her bitter grief to my wife the Marchioness. This could hear the chirping of small,
the voice of the mother riñéndoles for his impatience and kisses smacking Candida gave them.
Soon Rosalia appeared in Gasparini, and Milagros was frowning and smiling at same time as when
we can not avoid the effects of one of these sets, comics might occur in the saddest times.

"You see how funny - Rosalie said her friend's ear -.

I've said in the dining room, with much secret, do you favor to overtake
the other five dollars.

"

Milagros smiled, as a patient who makes an effort to distract. He soon fell again in that deep
sadness that the flattened like a consumptive fever. Passed through his mind terrible launch of
the next night, the guests arriving, filling the halls, she dressed in her large pink satin
skirt, enormous pouf and lengthy tail, affecting joy and the problem still unresolved dinner.
Because in that night I could not get away with four trifles ... What a shame! ... Rosalie
saw her friend's eyes moistened by tears, and tried to comfort her.

"That dissolute without conscience, the futility ...»-- was the only thing that happened.

D. Francisco came in a little while, less lively and humorous than
it used to.

Miracles greeted in the most affectionate, complaining after his unhappy fate and the inexorable
God was with her, giving no more than penalties on penalties.

Bringas comforted her with reasons Christian, though he had some
grudge, and long-standing, not receiving it the Easter Gift to believe
warrant when he composed the ivory casket.

But very nearly my friend had come to forgiveness of the offense, but not forget, and if truth
be said, did not like much the intimacies of his wife with that lady,
even considering purely circumscribed with regard to branch of raiment.

"Do

not I have the pleasure of seeing you tomorrow at my house?" - Said
the marchioness.

D. Gallantly apologized Francisco, getting ready to put his hands
in his magnum opus.

Began to notice that the exits were bad night ... His head was not good. He attributed to nerves,
and was perhaps the effect of time, the cloudy, it seemed as if would
break off the sky in water, and never had to break.

That morning she had been badly in the office ... The boss thought it was all a thing of the stomach,
recommending a little pill of aloes at every meal. But he was so little friend to botiquerías, not
determined to take anything ... This unease was deprived of attending
the soirée of Miracles and be content to bring the relationship to
read newspapers.

"Yet, yet - said the dismal wretched with grief - I do not know, I
know ... Perhaps nothing ... Horrible things happen to me ... Do not
ask me.

It remains for me to myself.

Let me You do not say another word. My dear hubby is a gem ... but not for me tell me their
prowess ... Public are unfortunately too ... Do not laugh at me if I go mourn. Certain things
...».

Brinker did not know what to say. She took leave with a firm handshake and a warm Until tomorrow.

In
the living room and the hall the two friends are secreted for a while.

"I have prepared the ground - said Milagros in agony -. Now venture
you ... without fear.

...». Insurance

- Ah, my dear, you rave, you daydream.

Yes I know ...

- So ... means that there is no solution for me - murmured the lady hugging grieving your friend,
and pressed against it.

Rosalia conmovidísima not say anything.

"At least - stammered the Marquise - tell you what happens to me ... It may be that God touch
the heart. "

- I will tell you as soon as Candida. But if you see what little hope I have! ... Rather, Tongo
not any ... And I!, What about me, I look like a conflict? What invent me by tomorrow? ... And
now that I can think of, why do not you approach your sister?

- By God, daughter, do not know how you say that. My sister! ... I have saved so many times! I
abused so much! No way. We do not talk now. Some days ago we had a question. In Finally, before
I turn to my sister and go to His Majesty, I will lay at your feet ...

- Yes, yes, certainly ... is best.

- No, no, no ... I think by tomorrow I shall die of pain. Do you open the hood? I to pray for a
while and see if the Lord enlighten me ... Bye bye ... Back tomorrow,
see, see if there is any hope.

The downcast face either of Rosalia revealed that such hope was not
a dream of that arbitrista mind. Should be noted that the penalty
of our very high lady was Bringas motivated by their own difficulties,
not those of his dear friend. So confident Milagros skills the pilgrims,
saying to himself: "I do not know how it is, but she will leave step.
" When the Marquise gave the final handshake, Rosalie said:

"Now
you will tell me tomorrow how he has managed."

And when he went to
the niche Bringas to tell the case, he took the lead with these bitter
words

"What comes the Tellería entanglements? As usual, Apurito.
There are no dupes fien these people the value of two dimes. The cast
of fools is running out to get disappointments force. "

Rosalie's
mouth was a seal. Dared not utter a single word. Stuck in his mind,
as INRI, had a picture of Torres and the malevolent figures of the
sum that it was essential pay. Confess to your husband the embarrassment
under which he was to declare a series of attacks Against illegal
domestic economy, which was the second religion of Bringas. But if
God is not a solution in store, Eral forced to go through with this
painful confession remedy and its consequences, which must have been
very bad. No, Christ father, it was necessary to invent something,
find, stir half the world, delve into the darkest depths of the problem
to give key with him. Before selling the economist's secret shopping,
being such Once the main spell of dull and routine life, chose to
make the sacrifice of their galas, by pulling those pieces of your
heart that is manifested in the real world form of fabrics, lace and
ribbons, and cast them to the voracity of the lights up to be the
sold for little more than nothing. Heroism was needed, not tears.

Thinking
about this, he went to Carrion to think better, for there were always
more ideas clarity. Candida, after mess around with the children,
went to talk to Bringas. Rosalia heard from his studio, without distinguishing
more words and role of the state administrator ... Consolidated ...
Revolution ... Canary general ... Montpensier ... God help us ...
Spoke senior business and political low. Suddenly the lady heard very
violent crash, as furniture that comes to earth and breaking china.
The blow was followed by a cry of Bringas, but so sharp and painful,
Rosalie gasped, cold, stop ... What was it? Did he fallen below the
vault and picked the best of their husbands?

XX

After the brief
spell that caused him so unusual noises, Rosalie ran to Gasparini,
and there, Holy God, saw a show incomprehensible.
Shadrach replied that there was such a back door facing to the north some eight days' journey
away. Only at this season of the year it could not be reached, since beyond the Mountains of
Mur in that direction was a great lake, out of which flowed the river Ebur in two arms that
enclosed the whole plain of Fung. By now this lake would be full, swollen with rains that fell
on the hills of Northern Africa, and the space between it and the Mur range nothing but an
impassable swamp.

Being still unsatisfied, Orme inquired whether, if we abandoned the camels, we could not then
climb the precipice down which the embassy had descended. To this the answer, which I corroborated,
was that if our approach were known and help given to us from above, it might be possible,
provided that we threw away the loads.

"Seeing what these loads are, and the purpose for which we have brought them so far, that is
out of the question," said Orme. "Therefore, tell us at once, Shadrach, how we are to win through
the Fung to Mur."

"In one way only, O son of Orme, should it be the will of God that we do so at all; by keeping
ourselves hidden during the daytime and marching at night. According to their custom at this
season, to-morrow, after sunset, the Fung hold their great spring feast in the city of Harmac,
and at dawn go up to make sacrifice to their idol. But after sunset they eat and drink and
are merry, and then it is their habit to withdraw their guards, that they may take part in
the festival. For this reason I have timed our march that we should arrive on the night of
this feast, which I know by the age of the moon, when, in the darkness, with God's help, perchance
we may slip past Harmac, and at the first light find ourselves in the mouth of the road that
runs up to Mur. Moreover, I will give warning to my people, the Abati, that we are coming,
so that they may be at hand to help us if there is need."

"How?" asked Orme.

"By firing the reeds"--and he pointed to the dense masses of dead vegetation about--"as I arranged
that I would do before we left Mur many months ago. The Fung, if they see it, will think only
that it is the work of some wandering fisherman."

Orme shrugged his shoulders, saying:

"Well, friend Shadrach, you know the place and these people, and I do not, so we must do what
you tell us. But I say at once that if, as I understand, yonder Fung will kill us if they can,
to me your plan seems very dangerous."

"It is dangerous," he answered, adding with a sneer, "but I thought that you men of England
were not cowards."

"Cowards! you son of a dog!" broke in Higgs in his high voice. "How dare you talk to us like
that? You see this man here"--and he pointed to Sergeant Quick, who, tall and upright, stood
watching this scene grimly, and understanding most of what passed--"well, he is the lowest
among us--a servant only" (here the Sergeant saluted), "but I tell you that there is more courage
in his little finger than in your whole body, or in that of all the Abati people, so far as
I can make out."

Here the Sergeant saluted again, murmuring beneath his breath, "I hope so, sir. Being a Christian,
I hope so, but till it comes to the sticking-point, one can never be sure."

"You speak big words, O Higgs," answered Shadrach insolently, for, as I think I have said,
he hated the Professor, who smelt the rogue in him, and scourged him continually with his sharp
tongue, "but if the Fung get hold of you, then we shall learn the truth."

"Shall I punch his head, sir?" queried Quick in a meditative voice.

"Be quiet, please," interrupted Orme. "We have troubles enough before us, without making more.
It will be time to settle our quarrels when we have got through the Fung."

Then he turned to Shadrach and said:

"Friend, this is no time for angry words. You are the guide of this party; lead us as you will,
remembering only that if it comes to war, I, by the wish of my companions, am Captain. Also,
there is another thing which you should not forget--namely, that in the end you must make answer
to your own ruler, she who, I understand from the doctor here, is called Walda Nagasta, the
Child of Kings. Now, no more words; we march as you wish and where you wish. On your head be it!"

The Abati heard and bowed sullenly. Then, with a look of hate at Higgs, he turned and went
about his business.

"Much better to have let me punch his head," soliloquized Quick. "It would have done him a
world of good, and perhaps saved many troubles, for, to tell the truth, I don't trust that
quarter-bred Hebrew."

Then he departed to see to the camels and the guns while the rest of us went to our tents to
get such sleep as the mosquitoes would allow. In my own case it was not much, since the fear
of evil to come weighed upon me. Although I knew the enormous difficulty of entering the mountain
stronghold of Mur by any other way, such as that by which I had quitted it, burdened as we
were with our long train of camels laden with rifles, ammunition, and explosives, I dreaded
the results of an attempt to pass through the Fung savages.

Moreover, it occurred to me that Shadrach had insisted upon this route from a kind of jealous
obstinacy, and to be in opposition to us Englishmen, whom he hated in his heart, or perhaps
for some dark and secret reason. Still, the fact remained that we were in his power, since
owing to the circumstances in which I had entered and left the place, it was impossible for
me to act as guide to the party. If I attempted to do so, no doubt he and the Abati with him
would desert, leaving the camels and their loads upon our hands. Why should they not, seeing
that they would be quite safe in concluding that we should never have an opportunity of laying
our side of the case before their ruler?

Just as the sun was setting, Quick came to call me, saying that the camels were being loaded up.

"I don't much like the look of things, Doctor," he said as he helped me to pack my few belongings,
"for the fact is I can't trust that Shadrach man. His pals call him 'Cat,' a good name for
him, I think. Also, he is showing his claws just now, the truth being that he hates the lot
of us, and would like to get back into Purr or Mur, or whatever the name of the place is, having
lost us on the road. You should have seen the way he looked at the Professor just now. Oh!
I wish the Captain had let me punch his head. I'm sure it would have cleared the air a lot."

As it chanced, Shadrach was destined to get his head "punched" after all, but by another hand.
It happened thus. The reeds were fired, as Shadrach had declared it was necessary to do, in
order that the Abati watchmen on the distant mountains might see and report the signal, although
in the light of subsequent events I am by no means certain that this warning was not meant
for other eyes as well. Then, as arranged, we started out, leaving them burning in a great
sheet of flame behind us, and all that night marched by the shine of the stars along some broken-down
and undoubtedly ancient road.

At the first sign of dawn we left this road and camped amid the overgrown ruins of a deserted
town that had been built almost beneath the precipitous cliffs of Mur, fortunately without
having met any one or being challenged. I took the first watch, while the others turned in
to sleep after we had all breakfasted off cold meats, for here we dared not light a fire. As
the sun grew high, dispelling the mists, I saw that we were entering upon a thickly-populated
country which was no stranger to civilization of a sort. Below us, not more than fifteen or
sixteen miles away, and clearly visible through my field-glasses, lay the great town of Harmac,
which, during my previous visit to this land, I had never seen, as I passed it in the night.

It was a city of the West Central African type, with open market-places and wide streets, containing
thousands of white, flat-roofed houses, the most important of which were surrounded by gardens.
Round it ran a high and thick wall, built, apparently, of sun-burnt brick, and in front of
the gateways, of which I could see two, stood square towers whence these might be protected.
All about this city the flat and fertile land was under cultivation, for the season being that
of early spring, already the maize and other crops showed green upon the ground.

Beyond this belt of plough-lands, with the aid of the field-glasses, I could make out great
herds of grazing cattle and horses, mixed with wild game, a fact that assured me of the truth
of what I had heard during my brief visit to Mur, that the Fung had few or no firearms, since
otherwise the buck and quagga would have kept at a distance. Far off, too, and even on the
horizon, I saw what appeared to be other towns and villages. Evidently this was a very numerous
people, and one which could not justly be described as savage. No wonder that the little Abati
tribe feared them so intensely, notwithstanding the mighty precipices by which they were protected
from their hate.

About eleven o'clock Orme came on watch, and I turned in, having nothing to report. Soon I
was fast asleep, notwithstanding the anxieties that, had I been less weary, might well have
kept me wakeful. For these were many. On the coming night we must slip through the Fung, and
before midday on the morrow we should either have entered Mur, or failed to have entered Mur,
which meant--death, or, what was worse, captivity among barbarians, and subsequent execution,
preceded probably by torture of one sort or another.

Of course, however, we might come thither without accident, travelling with good guides on
a dark night, for, after all, the place was big, and the road lonely and little used, so that
unless we met a watch, which, we were told, would not be there, our little caravan had a good
chance to pass unobserved. Shadrach seemed to think that we should do so, but the worst of
it was that, like Quick, I did not trust Shadrach. Even Maqueda, the Lady of the Abati, she
whom they called Child of Kings, had her doubts about him, or so it had seemed to me.

At any rate, she had told me before I left Mur that she chose him for this mission because
he was bold and cunning, one of the very few of her people also who, in his youth, had crossed
the desert and, therefore, knew the road. "Yet, Physician," she added meaningly, "watch him,
for is he not named 'Cat'? Yes, watch him, for did I not hold his wife and children hostages,
and were I not sure that he desires to win the great reward in land which I have promised to
him, I would not trust you to this man's keeping."

Well, after many experiences in his company, my opinion coincided with Maqueda's, and so did
that of Quick, no mean judge of men.

"Look at him, Doctor," he said when he came to tell me that I could turn in, for whether it
were his watch or not, the Sergeant never seemed to be off duty. "Look, at him," and he pointed
to Shadrach, who was seated under the shade of a tree, talking earnestly in whispers with two
of his subordinates with a very curious and unpleasing smile upon his face. "If God Almighty
ever made a scamp, he's squatting yonder. My belief is that he wanted to be rid of us all at
Zeu, so that he might steal our goods, and I hope he won't play the same trick again to-night.
Even the dog can't abide him."

Before I could answer, I had proof of this last statement, for the great yellow hound, Pharaoh,
that had found us in the desert, hearing our voices, emerged from some corner where it was
hidden, and advanced toward us, wagging its tail. As it passed Shadrach, it stopped and growled,
the hair rising on its back, whereon he hurled a stone at it and hit its leg. Next instant
Pharaoh, a beast of enormous power, was on the top of him, and really, I thought, about to
tear out his throat.

Well, we got him off before any harm was done, but Shadrach's face, lined with its livid scars,
was a thing to remember. Between rage and fear, it looked like that of a devil.

To return. After this business I went to sleep, wondering if it were my last rest upon the
earth, and whether, having endured so much for his sake, it would or would not be my fortune
to see the face of my son again, if, indeed, he still lived, yonder not a score of miles away--or
anywhere.

Toward evening I was awakened by a fearful hubbub, in which I distinguished the shrill voice
of Higgs ejaculating language which I will not repeat, the baying of Pharaoh, and the smothered
groans and curses of an Abati. Running from the little tent, I saw a curious sight, that of
the Professor with Shadrach's head under his left arm, in chancery, as we used to call it at
school, while with his right he punched the said Shadrach's nose and countenance generally
with all his strength, which, I may add, is considerable. If Rosalie had not passed away, peace, after that transient alteration
would have made a solid king at home, but did not know the Pipaón and restraint, and the habit
of secretly circumvent the rules of the Order was bringuística and deeply rooted in his soul.
Proporcionábale this habit, as well as the satisfactions of vanity, a hidden pleasure. Who had
so long been a slave, why ever was not to your liking? Each of those actions wrong and illegal
caressed the soul before and after smoking. Consciousness knew how to draw, no one knows where, a
thousand sophistries that justify all fully. "Quite a few hardships I've had ... Why, perhaps not worthy
I another position? ... You will have to get used to me a little more liberated ... And ultimately
After all, I look for the honor of the family ...».

What most troubled his mind in those early days of solitude and heat was the need to return the
money in the casket. Milagros had given him everything. Where do you get what was missing?
Instantly she remembered Torres, and since I had the opportunity to do so, made him a discrete
indication. "He had, what a pity! If a friend had ... Finally, the next day response. " Our
friend was not baked the bread to know the answer Torres, because every time I thought next disaster,
which would be great, strong and inevitable, since Bringas register their treasure. Fortunately
or by special intervention of the saints who invoked the Pipaón not yet had happened to the good
man lift the top ceiling. But when he did ...! And it was not worth the discretion of papers with
rude art imitating tickets, because I saw the mouse, albeit poorly, and it was impossible
to touch was relying only to the tonnage of the box. On tenterhooks the lady was all day 31 and
part of the immediate Torres gave up hope remedy. She began making it difficult, considering
what had worked to understand the convenience of the loan to his friend. Which was a certain
Torquemada, a man who did not your money without collateral. On that occasion, however, in deference
to Torres, would not require the husband's signature on the contract, because the lady was
enough ... I could not do the loan more than a month, date extended, and giving four thousand
pieces of the note would four thousand five hundred. Ah, the four hundred thousand were deducted
brokerage real ...

Rosalie saw the heavens opened when Torres gave him the news, and all it seemed little revenue
and brokerage, for the great favor that he did. With three 1800 actual would have enough for
their purpose, and you still have more than enough about six dollars for something unforeseen
occur. Everything would be fixed the next day August 2.

And the time running out, and the danger was imminent, as discussed
by this phrase Bringas copied verbatim:

"Daughter, I am sending Golfín
account and will have to pay it after tomorrow 3.

He leaves 4, as I have said today. I shudder when I think of meat this man will take me by man
of means. How much will I? Can you think of yourself? I've thought about it all night, and I
had nightmares as Isabelita ... And today I said a phrase I Golfín got chills ... What I say,
you're losing me with the sheen loud that you see ... Well look that makes me laugh ... when
you do not know if we will be wrong with the doctor, that I say ... so, with that cheeky twang
... "Mr. D. Francisco, yesterday saw his wife out of Mass San Ginés twelve ... Ever so elegant !...».
So you will be happy elegance knife that this man is going to mow your neck. "

At half past ten the other day, while Don Francisco and the whole
family was often in ride on the Cuesta de la Vega, the operation was
performed.

Usurious appeared with accuracy, a fixed time, Torres and Torquemada. This was a middle-aged
man, graying beard shaved four days, dark and a clerical air. Invariable practice was to ask him
by the family to make your greeting, and spoke the words apart and put between paragraphs asthma breaks,
so that he could not hear but feel contaminated obstructions in the emission of breath. Accompanied
his tiresome speeches slow Lift the right arm, forming with the index finger and thumb a kind of
donut to put it to his partner before his eyes, as an object of veneration. The visit was brief.
The only part of the contract to repair was made Rosalia concerning the time a month, which
seemed too short, but Torquemada said he could not extend it. "In early September had to ...
give a bond in the County ... Provincial, because presented to the auction ... Hospitals meat.
While Pensáralo ... lady not have believed it if possible ... refund at the time ... agreed,
the loan ... not be verified. " In all it agreed the lady, attentive only to leave the conflict of
the day, took money, signed, and the two friends parted, leaving expressions for the owner home
to one of them who did not know. Remained the Pipaón thrilled, and thought only on how to enter
in the money pit. A little difficulty occurred, and that was that not having a ticket of 400
scudi, but several small, had to procure a of those. If the bills were otherwise, but the amount
was the same, the cominero be called misleading. With the pretext of making a visit out in
the afternoon, frightened to death, suspecting her husband whenever he pleased, while she was
away, recording the Treasury. But a good angel watching over her, nothing happened during the
time spent doing the unusual exchange small bills for large one. The money changer in the street
looked at Carmen some wonder. At night, the delicate operation to replenish the amount embezzled
was made with all happiness.

Rarely had he felt so nervous my friend Bringas as in the moments leading up on arrival Golfín account.
At about ten o'clock on day 3, he sent a message Paquito verbal, begging the doctor promptly
send her note attendance fees care, and would be half past eleven when the boy returned home,
bringing a letter.

Bringas not breathing while her trembling hand tore the envelope and unfolded the paper. Rosalia
waiting also eager curiosity ... Eight thousand pieces! Reading this sum was perplexed Bringas,
wavering between joy and sorrow, as if the amount seemed excessive, on the other hand, fears that
were absurdly large, calm down before the true figure. There sometimes believed that the bill would
not lower than twelve or sixteen thousand pieces, and this suspicion will put out of it, others
conceived it not exceed four thousand. The party had actually the difference between these two sums
illusory, and finally came to comfort economist with arguments of Don Hermogenes school, saying
that if eight thousand reais were a lot of money compared to four, were relatively little sixteen
... A further reason his Don Hermogenes that dominated the tumult of ideas at that time arithmetic
boiling in his brain, and that was that Ridley, as the recommended sick of the Queen, having
had no been nothing ...

XXXVIII

"But anyway, I agree. I have not gone wrong, for I have come to my eyes. The first is health and
health first sight.

And the truth is that this murderer has cured me well.

Eight realitas thousand! It is quite possible - he added with a sigh and feeling annoyed slightly
- which, if not been for your elegance, the shotgun would not have happened four thousand
...».

He took the money, he put a card very fine and very polite, thanking the learned doctor admirable
for his assistance, and all, letter and notes, oh sweet treasures of his soul, was introduced Gorgeous
in an envelope, of the office. Paquito was to take the second message. If Bringas sadly saw the expatriation
of his beloved banknotes, on the other hand felt the deep satisfaction and experience of pay.
This pleasure is only given to people a lot arrangement that to save money on saving feelings
it produces, and of these, they are content to enjoy the most pure and spiritual.

Glided after this day with tedious slowness, the month of August, the month Madrid is Madrid,
but a solitary pan. In those days there was more theater summer circus of Price, with its
seemingly clows horses and that made all nights the same graces. The historic Prado was the only
place of solace, and in his twilight the love and conversation groups spent their time in conversations
more or less boring heat with defending abanicazos and sips of cool water. The locals that spend
the summer at the Villa are the real outcasts, outlaws, and his only consolation ie drinking
the best water in the world.

In his horrible boredom, dislike the Pipaón to go to the Prado, because I was reviewing this as
of misery and vulgarity. He had used many times the vexed formula-explanation of exile: "We
took a house in San Sebastian, pore ...»; Bringas disease and tired of it, dodging the chances
of repeating. At night and some people Bringas of the few in the city had been, they would get seats
on the terrace, and were North side of a group that lacked animation. Candida never failed.
Completed Mrs. gang of Montero de Espinosa, the two heads of office, that of an officer the secretary,
the director of the Royal Tables, the head of Wardrobe del Rey. Males attending the few that
there were lots, and were class lower, but the summer is very democratizing, and my dear Bringas,
longingly of society, not disdain to alternate, at a gathering in the open, with goalkeepers
Banda and Glass, with Storage Manager, with the aide of Silver, with two lockers, people all six
thousand reais down. These used to join a kitchen helper, who enjoyed fourteen thousand, and
some Saleta usher, who saw nine thousand. At these gatherings there was talk heat had done
for the day, the Court had already left the farm for Lequeitio, and other minutiae of personal
and household. On the third floor and in the spaces squares mode cut the length of the corridors,
streets, social gatherings were also formed office of porters, maids, sweepers and people coming up
out of stables. In the corresponding site large bars overlooking the Plaza de Oriente, on
the ledge, the strike lasted all evening with great entertainment, laughter, guitar playing and a
soft drink horchata strains. Doña Candida trilled against these disorders, because he could not close my
eyes all night, and threatened offenders to report them to the inspector general.

In the morning the whole family down to the Manzanares, where they bathed and Alfonsin Isabelita.
Dad had brought back to light denim suit, and with this, and the
straw hat seemed he had just come from Havana.

Sheltered from light for very dark glasses, his eyes healed quickly, thanks to the timely completion
of the treatment plan that had Golfín left. The morning air and the joy of the resort will
put in a good mood, and constantly asserted that if the fools who will be known establishments
Jeronimos, Cypress, the Rainbow, the Esmeralda and the Andalusia, the win would not have fixed
migration. Paquito also threw intrepid wave of those little dirty seas, sandwiched between
mats, and swimming was a beauty, standing on the bottom. A Alfonsin was necessary to beat him
out, and she entered only to force. Five returning slowly small appetite for ostrich, D. Francisco
very happy and purposes lunch not to offend. To lower the river, Bringas had to overcome the repugnance
what inspired him. Just for the sake of her children she was able to make that sacrifice. Le disgust
gave water and bathers, all people more or less. I could not look without horror septa mat, more appropriate
to threaten the decency to keep it safe, and Regular urchins shouting him so much nerves.

In
the afternoon, almost dusk, would come down to Madrid to visit a friend or to around known stores.
These had very few people. Luenga curtain kept in the local atmosphere less heat than the street,
and this darkness, as the idleness invited to the employees to sleep on pieces of cloth. Occasionally
found home for Sobrino Hermanos to some lady behind, some banished like her. New edition the
famous formula: "We took a house in San Sebastian, but ...».

The other would say with commendable frankness: "We hope to trains flights of September."

As
in those days were shopkeepers hand over hand, to show entreteníanse Mrs different fabrics and
things on a whim. "This will be much in the fall ... This is now range, because it is the fashion
of the season. " These phrases seemed to come from the folds of parts to be unfolded. The principal,
who was preparing to make the usual trip to Paris, urged to buy something, and she fell into temptation,
sometimes because I had some real bargains, others because the genre he entered through his
right eye, lighting all the fires of his passion Trappist, and could
not fail to satisfy, on pain of suffering long, the desire to purchase.

Oh! The martyrdom of the summer had to compensate in next fall, dressed as God commanded, her husband
liked it or not. Was intended a new dress made of velvet for winter and one of the most graceful
canopy, new and elegant. At Young children dress like princes. Ya, ya see the bobbin with Who
was ... Thinking about these and other plans, slowly walked the streets again home, he stopped at
the shop windows of fashion and jewelry, and made a thousand calculations the more or less remote
chance of having something very valuable and rich he saw. Sadness of Madrid in this period increased
his sorrow.
 On we went, and at length even through
the gloom and rain I saw objects that looked like houses, though if so there were no lights
in them, perhaps because the night drew toward morning. A dreadful idea struck me: we might
be in Harmac! I passed it up for what it was worth.

"Very likely," whispered Orme back. "Perhaps these camels were bred here, and are looking for
their stables. Well, there is only one thing to do--go on."

So we went on for a long while, only interfered with by the occasional attentions of some barking
dog. Luckily of these Pharaoh, in his basket, took no heed, probably because it was his habit
if another dog barked at him to pretend complete indifference until it came so near that he
could spring and fight, or kill it. At length we appeared to pass under another archway, after
which, a hundred and fifty yards or so further on, the camels came to a sudden stop. Quick
dismounted, and presently I heard him say:

"Doors. Can feel the brasswork on them. Tower above, I think, and wall on either side. Seem
to be in a trap. Best stop here till light comes. Nothing else to be done."

Accordingly, we stopped, and, having tied the camels to each other to prevent their straying,
took shelter from the rain under the tower or whatever it might be. To pass away the time and
keep life in us, for we were almost frozen with the wet and cold, we ate some tinned food and
biscuits that we carried in our saddle-bags, and drank a dram of brandy from Quick's flask.
This warmed us a little, though I do not think that a bottleful would have raised our spirits.
Higgs, whom we all loved, was gone, dead, probably, by that time; the Abati had lost or deserted
us, and we three white men appeared to have wandered into a savage stronghold, where, as soon
as we were seen, we should be trapped like birds in a net, and butchered at our captor's will.
Certainly the position was not cheerful.

Overwhelmed with physical and mental misery, I began to doze; Orme grew silent, and the Sergeant,
having remarked that there was no need to bother, since what must be must be, consoled himself
in a corner by humming over and over again the verse of the hymn which begins:

     "There is a blessed home beyond this land of woe,
     Where trials never come nor tears of sorrow flow."

Fortunately for us, shortly before dawn the "tears of sorrow" as represented by the rain ceased
to flow. The sky cleared, showing the stars; suddenly the vault of heaven was suffused with
a wonderful and pearly light, although on the earth the mist remained so thick that we could
see nothing. Then above this sea of mist rose the great ball of the sun, but still we could
see nothing that was more than a few yards away from us.

"There is a blessed home beyond this land of woe"

droned Quick beneath his breath for about the fiftieth time, since, apparently, he knew no
other hymn which he considered suitable to our circumstances, then ejaculated suddenly:

"Hullo! here's a stair. With your leave I'll go up it, Captain," and he did.

A minute later we heard his voice calling us softly:

"Come here, gentlemen," he said, "and see something worth looking at."

So we scrambled up the steps, and, as I rather expected, found ourselves upon the top of one
of two towers set above an archway, which towers were part of a great protective work outside
the southern gates of a city that could be none other than Harmac. Soaring above the mist rose
the mighty cliffs of Mur that, almost exactly opposite to us, were pierced by a deep valley.

Into this valley the sunlight poured, revealing a wondrous and awe-inspiring object of which
the base was surrounded by billowy vapours, a huge, couchant animal fashioned of black stone,
with a head carved to the likeness of that of a lion, and crowned with the uraeus, the asp-crested
symbol of majesty in old Egypt. How big the creature might be it was impossible to say at that
distance, for we were quite a mile away from it; but it was evident that no other monolithic
monument that we had ever seen or heard of could approach its colossal dimensions.

Compared to this tremendous effigy indeed, the boasted Sphinx of Gizeh seemed but a toy. It
was no less than a small mountain of rock shaped by the genius and patient labour of some departed
race of men to the form of a lion-headed monster. Its majesty and awfulness set thus above
the rolling mists in the red light of the morning, reflected on it from the towering precipices
beyond, were literally indescribable; even in our miserable state, they oppressed and overcame
us, so that for awhile we were silent. Then we spoke, each after his own manner:

"The idol of the Fung!" said I. "No wonder that savages should take it for a god."

"The greatest monolith in all the world," muttered Orme, "and Higgs is dead. Oh! if only he
had lived to see it, he would have gone happy. I wish it had been I who was taken; I wish it
had been I!" and he wrung his hands, for it is the nature of Oliver Orme always to think of
others before himself.

"That's what we have come to blow up," soliloquized Quick. "Well, those 'azure stinging-bees,'
or whatever they call the stuff (he meant azo-imides) are pretty active, but it will take a
lot of stirring if ever we get there. Seems a pity, too, for the old pussy is handsome in his way."

"Come down," said Orme. "We must find out where we are; perhaps we can escape in the mist."

"One moment," I answered. "Do you see that?" and I pointed to a needle-like rock that pierced
the fog about a mile to the south of the idol valley, and say two miles from where we were.
"That's the White Rock; it isn't white really, but the vultures roost on it and make it look
so. I have never seen it before, for I passed it in the night, but I know that it marks the
beginning of the cleft which runs up to Mur; you remember, Shadrach told us so. Well, if we
can get to that White Rock we have a chance of life."

Orme studied it hurriedly and repeated, "Come down; we may be seen up here."

We descended and began our investigations in feverish haste. This was the sum of them: In the
arch under the tower were set two great doors covered with plates of copper or bronze beaten
into curious shapes to represent animals and men, and apparently very ancient. These huge doors
had grilles in them through which their defenders could peep out or shoot arrows. What seemed
more important to us, however, was that they lacked locks, being secured only by thick bronze
bolts and bars such as we could undo.

"Let's clear out before the mist lifts," said Orme. "With luck we may get to the pass."

We assented, and I ran to the camels that lay resting just outside the arch. Before I reached
them, however, Quick called me back.

"Look through there, Doctor," he said, pointing to one of the peep-holes.

I did so, and in the dense mist saw a body of horsemen advancing toward the door.

They must have seen us on the top of the wall. "Fools that we were to go there!" exclaimed Orme.

Next instant he started back, not a second too soon, for through the hole where his face had
been, flashed a spear which struck the ground beyond the archway. Also we heard other spears
rattle upon the bronze plates of the doors.

"No luck!" said Orme; "that's all up, they mean to break in. Now I think we had better play
a bold game. Got your rifles, Sergeant and Doctor? Yes? Then choose your loopholes, aim, and
empty the magazines into them. Don't waste a shot. For heaven's sake don't waste a shot. Now--one--two--three,
fire!"

Fire we did into the dense mass of men who had dismounted and were running up to the doors
to burst them open. At that distance we could scarcely miss and the magazines of the repeating
rifles held five shots apiece. As the smoke cleared away I counted quite half-a-dozen Fung
down, while some others were staggering off, wounded. Also several of the men and horses beyond
were struck by the bullets which had passed through the bodies of the fallen.

The effect of this murderous discharge was instantaneous and remarkable. Brave though the Fung
might be, they were quite unaccustomed to magazine rifles. Living as they did perfectly isolated
and surrounded by a great river, even if they had heard of such things and occasionally seen
an old gaspipe musket that reached them in the course of trade, of modern guns and their terrible
power they knew nothing. Small blame to them, therefore, if their courage evaporated in face
of a form of sudden death which to them must have been almost magical. At any rate they fled
incontinently, leaving their dead and wounded on the ground.

Now again we thought of flight, which perhaps would have proved our wisest course, but hesitated
because we could not believe that the Fung had left the road clear, or done more than retreat
a little to wait for us. While we lost time thus the mist thinned a great deal, so much indeed
that we could see our exact position. In front of us, towards the city side, lay a wide open
space, whereof the walls ended against those of Harmac itself, to which they formed a kind
of vestibule or antechamber set there to protect this gateway of the town through which we
had ridden in the darkness, not knowing whither we went. And
stopped to talk with Dona Antonia, the wardrobe, which drew the blinds and watering their
pots, and they joined a distinguished person in the neighborhood, Madame Secretary del Rey, Sister
Butler second, the inspector general with his daughter, and walked together talking frivolously.
When they were entirely alone, the worthy officer used to rely Rosalia its domestic troubles,
which had lately come to disturb the happy serenity of his character.

Two men could never have done the job, but being three and fairly desperate we managed it.
Then we retreated to our archway and, as nothing happened, took the opportunity to eat and
drink a few mouthfuls, Quick remarking sagely that we might as well die upon full as upon empty
stomachs.

When we had crossed the square the fog was thinning rapidly, but as the sun rose, sucking the
vapours from the rain-soaked earth, it thickened again for awhile.

"Sergeant," said Orme presently, "these black men are bound to attack us soon. Now is the time
to lay a mine while they can't see what we are after."

"I was just thinking the same thing, Captain; the sooner the better," replied Quick. "Perhaps
the Doctor will keep a watch here over the camels, and if he sees any one stick up his head
above the wall, he might bid him good-morning. We know he is a nice shot, is the Doctor," and
he tapped my rifle.

I nodded and the two of them set out laden with wires and the packages that looked like tobacco
tins, heading for a stone erection in the centre of the square which resembled an altar, but
was, I believe, a rostrum whence the native auctioneers sold slaves and other merchandise.
What they did there exactly, I am sure I do not know; indeed, I was too much occupied in keeping
a watch upon the walls whereof I could clearly see the crest above the mist, to pay much attention
to their proceedings.

Presently my vigilance was rewarded, for over the great gateway opposite, at a distance of
about a hundred and fifty paces from me, appeared some kind of a chieftain clad in white robes
and wearing a very fine turban or coloured head-dress, who paraded up and down, waving a spear
defiantly and uttering loud shouts.

This man I covered very carefully, lying down to do so. As Quick had said, I am a good rifle
shot, having practised that art for many years; still, one may always miss, which, although
I bore no personal grudge against the poor fellow in the fine head-dress, on this occasion
I did not wish to do. The sudden and mysterious death of that savage would, I felt sure, produce
a great effect among his people.

At length he stopped exactly over the door and began to execute a kind of war-dance, turning
his head from time to time to yell out something to others on the farther side of the wall.
This was my opportunity. I covered him with as much care as though I were shooting at a target,
with one bull's eye to win. Aiming a little low in case the rifle should throw high, very gently
I pressed the trigger. The cartridge exploded, the bullet went on its way, and the man on the
wall stopped dancing and shouting and stood quite still. Clearly he had heard the shot or felt
the wind of the ball, but was untouched.

I worked the lever jerking out the empty case, preparatory to firing again, but on looking
up saw that there was no need, for the Fung captain was spinning round on his heels like a
top. Three or four times he whirled thus with incredible rapidity, then suddenly threw his
arms wide, and dived headlong from the wall like a bather from a plank, but backward, and was
soon no more. Only from the farther side of those gates arose a wail of wrath and consternation.

After this no other Fung appeared upon the wall, so I turned my attention to the spy-hole in
the doors behind me, and seeing some horsemen moving about at a distance of four or five hundred
yards on a rocky ridge where the mist did not lie, I opened fire on them and at the second
shot was fortunate enough to knock a man out of the saddle. One of those with him, who must
have been a brave fellow, instantly jumped down, threw him, dead or living, over the horse,
leaped up behind him, and galloped away accompanied by the others, pursued by some probably
ineffective bullets that I sent after them.

Now the road to the Pass of Mur seemed to be clear, and I regretted that Orme and Quick were
not with me to attempt escape. Indeed, I meditated fetching or calling them, when suddenly
I saw them returning, burying a wire or wires in the sand as they came, and at the same time
heard a noise of thunderous blows of which I could not mistake the meaning. Evidently the Fung
were breaking down the farther bronze doors with some kind of battering-ram. I ran out to meet
them and told my news.

"Well done," said Orme in a quiet voice. "Now, Sergeant, just join up those wires to the battery,
and be careful to screw them in tight. You have tested it, haven't you? Doctor, be good enough
to unbar the gates. No, you can't do that alone; I'll help you presently. Look to the camels
and tighten the girths. These Fung will have the doors down in a minute, and then there will
be no time to lose."

"What are you going to do?" I asked as I obeyed.

"Show them some fireworks, I hope. Bring the camels into the archway so that they can't foul
the wire with their feet. So--stand still, you grumbling brutes! Now for these bolts. Heavens!
how stiff they are. I wonder why the Fung don't grease them. One door will do--never mind the
other."

Labouring furiously we got it undone and ajar. So far as we could see there was no one in sight
beyond. Scared by our bullets or for other reasons of their own, the guard there appeared to
have moved away.

"Shall we take the risk and ride for it?" I suggested.

"No," answered Orme. "If we do, even supposing there are no Fung waiting beyond the rise, those
inside the town will soon catch us on their swift horses. We must scare them before we bolt,
and then those that are left of them may let us alone. Now listen to me. When I give the word,
you two take the camels outside and make them kneel about fifty yards away, not nearer, for
I don't know the effective range of these new explosives; it may be greater than I think. I
shall wait until the Fung are well over the mine and then fire it, after which I hope to join
you. If I don't, ride as hard as you can go to that White Rock, and if you reach Mur give my
compliments to the Child of Kings, or whatever she is called, and say that although I have
been prevented from waiting upon her, Sergeant Quick understands as much about picrates as
I do. Also get Shadrach tried and hanged if he is guilty of Higgs's death. Poor old Higgs!
how he would have enjoyed this."

"Beg your pardon, Captain," said Quick, "but I'll stay with you. The doctor can see to the
baggage animals."

"Will you be good enough to obey orders and fall to the rear when you are told, Sergeant? Now,
no words. It is necessary for the purposes of this expedition that one of us two should try
to keep a whole skin."

"Then, sir," pleaded Quick, "mayn't I take charge of the battery?"

"No," he answered sternly. "Ah! the doors are down at last," and he pointed to a horde of Fung,
mounted and on foot, who poured through the gateway where they had stood, shouting after their
fashion, and went on: "Now then, pick out the captains and pepper away. I want to keep them
back a bit, so that they come on in a crowd, not scattered."

We took up our repeating rifles and did as Orme told us, and so dense was the mass of humanity
opposite that if we missed one man, we hit another, killing or wounding a number of them. The
result of the loss of several of their leaders, to say nothing of meaner folk, was just what
Orme had foreseen. The Fung soldiers, instead of rushing on independently, spread to right
and left, until the whole farther side of the square filled up with thousands of them, a veritable
sea of men, at which we pelted bullets as boys hurl stones at a wave.

At length the pressure of those behind thrust onward those in front, and the whole fierce,
tumultuous mob began to flow forward across the square, a multitude bent on the destruction
of three white men, armed with these new and terrible weapons. It was a very strange and thrilling
sight; never have I seen its like.

"Now," said Orme, "stop firing and do as I bid you. Kneel the camels fifty yards outside the
wall, not less, and wait till you know the end. If we shouldn't meet again, well, good-bye
and good luck."

So we went, Quick literally weeping with shame and rage.

"Good Lord!" he exclaimed, "good Lord! to think that, after four campaigns, Samuel Quick, Sergeant
of Engineers, with five medals, should live to be sent off with the baggage like a pot-bellied
bandmaster, leaving his captain to fight about three thousand niggers single-handed. Doctor,
if he don't come out, you do the best you can for yourself, for I'm going back to stop with
him, that's all. There, that's fifty paces; down you go, you ugly beasts," and he bumped his
camel viciously on the head with the butt of his rifle.

From where we had halted we could only see through the archway into the space beyond. By now
the square looked like a great Sunday meeting in Hyde Park, being filled up with men of whom
the first rows were already past the altar-like rostrum in its centre.

"Why don't he loose off them stinging-bees?" muttered Quick. "Oh! I see his little game. Look,"
and he pointed to the figure of Orme, who had crept behind the unopened half of the door on
our side of it and was looking intently round its edge, holding the battery in his right hand.
"He wants to let them get nearer so as to make a bigger bag. He----"

I heard no more of Quick's remarks, for suddenly something like an earthquake took place, and
the whole sky seemed to turn to one great flame. I saw a length of the wall of the square rush
outward and upward. I saw the shut half of the bronze-plated door skipping and hopping playfully
toward us, and in front of it the figure of a man. Then it began to rain all sorts of things.

For instance, stones, none of which hit us, luckily, and other more unpleasant objects. It
is a strange experience to be knocked backward by a dead fist separated from its parent body,
yet on this occasion this actually happened to me, and, what is more, the fist had a spear
in it. The camels tried to rise and bolt, but they are phlegmatic brutes, and, as ours were
tired as well, we succeeded in quieting them.

Whilst we were thus occupied somewhat automatically, for the shock had dazed us, the figure
that had been propelled before the dancing door arrived, reeling in a drunken fashion, and
through the dust and falling débris we knew it for that of Oliver Orme. His face was blackened,
his clothes were torn half off him, and blood from a scalp wound ran down his brown hair. But
in his right hand he still held the little electric battery, and I knew at once that he had
no limbs broken.

"Very successful mine," he said thickly. "Boer melinite shells aren't in it with this new compound. Candida dealt with swiftly when off, stepping, for which he had to rise skirts up near
the knee. Was jumping and went to the weight of your foot where the flame was alive, but also
ran the floor shellac liquid hot which is very sticky substance, the soles of the venerable
lady clung so heavily to the floor, I could not, without a medium effort, lifted.

Rosalie went straight to her husband, who, feeling around, grabbed her with anxiety seizure,
and turning his eyes everywhere, seemed to find something that eluded him. His face expressed
terror so intense, that his wife did not remember seeing anything like it.

"What ?...»-- was all her, her dismay, she could say.

Bringas rubbed his eyes, opened them again, and moving much the eyelids,
like poets when they read his poems, said in a tone that tore:

"I
see!

... I see! ".

Rosalie could not add anything, such was his terror.

Garcia the Great, who had mastered fire, but not completely prevent
the adherence of his boots to the floor, went to pitiful group ...

"That
will not be anything" - he said noting that strange look of D. Francisco.

-
Where is the window, the window ?...-- moaned the most desperately
unhappy.

- There, there, you do not see ?...-- Rosalie shouted, turning
toward the light.

- No, I do not see, do not see you, I see nothing
... Complete darkness, absolute ... All black ...

- Ah, that damn
job ... Well I told you, well you said it all ... But it will happen
...

Rosalia was more dead than alive ... Do not think of anything.

The penalty was choking. Candida, proceeding more calmly, he began
to make arrangements.

"Sentémosle on the couch ... Now should call the doctor. "

We approached the sofa and collapsed on him sick with despair, as
if it would drop in his coffin.

Palpable object, felt to his wife, or a point left him.

"Well we told you - he repeated, drowning in tears and hiding the
dissonance of the voice -.

That damn hair piece ... working all day ... If you could feel eyestrain, why Why continue? ".

-
My children, where are they? - Muttered Bringas.

Near the door were Isabelita and Alfonsin, terrified, silent, not
daring to step: the small as the bread for a snack in hand, chewing
slowly, the girl would be, with hands behind his back, watching the
sad group of distraught parents.

Rosalie told them approach. I felt Bringas, diols thousand kisses, lamenting not being able to
see, and predicting that no longer would ever. More tears spilled the poor in that quarter of
an hour in all his previous life, and Pipaón, considering that sudden misfortune that God sent
him, conceptualized punishing the faults he had committed. It was necessary to order out from
there to young. Retaining prudence in Furriel and not let them pass. Inspired Isabelita care
for fear that the strong impression he received a disorder produjese spasmodic more serious than
previous ones. Meanwhile, Mrs. García Grande, most obsequious and helpful with friends at the
critical times, she dedicated her existence to be useful.

"I will go for the doctor. You'll see how this tells us nothing. I had a thing that I learned the
point of Flanders. I suddenly felt a disturbance rare At the hearing,
then I began to see objects halved.

All stood in a sharp pain head. Call that ophthalmic migraine. I remember hearing my doctor
say that in some cases is completely lost sight for a few hours a day ... Serénese you, my friend
D. Francisco, and take a glass of water with a little wine. Back soon.

Came out diligently, with sincere desire to serve, and not finding a doctor who lived in the house
went to get the call. While they were alone, Bringas and his wife
barely spoke.

She could not stop looking at him, hoping that when he least expected it, they gain those astonished
eyes the most precious gift for which they were raised, he began to exercise the sense peculiar
to the blind, touch, and I saw her hands, and shaking it, and palpating loving and carefully. A
single word, sighs and lamentations of the poor sick were the only verbal expression of that
sad scene, the more silent eloquent.

The doctor came at last. Candida, would not let the hand to enter
with him into the house.

It was an old affable, old-school, excellent diagnostician, shy to prescribe and as I said,
unfortunate. Aware of the history of the case, called evil retinal congestion.

"In the retina - supported Candida -.

It happens. Soon regain sight, but the work of hair, buddy, you model terminated. "

- If I say, if I announced - the Bringas said briskly, with the hopes revived giving the doctor -.
And now ...?

The doctor prescribed bed rest, diet, and the next day a derivative. Also ordered black bandage,
a soothing light for in case of insomnia, and offered to come early next morning to examine
the eyes of the patient detention. It was late, and last sunlight was leaving the room gloomily.
When the kindly old man withdrew, Brinker and his wife were more
animated.

"Nothing, my children, not be rushed - they said Candida, both of whose useful informal served
as a great comfort -. Now sleep ... and sleep if you can. Nothing to fear, or think as not to
be. Serenity and a little patience.

It's a matter of hours or a couple of days at most. I undertake to bring medicines and as needed.
Accompany them well all night, if necessary ...».

When the helpful lady came to the pharmacy, Rosalie and her husband
had retired after to sell a large piece of black silk.

Like any fledgling blind, Bringas affected no need of foreign help to undress, and learning about the
distress of his wife, had revive the heroism of loving expressions, as if he were a healthy and
she's sick.

"Probably this will happen ... But it is tiresome. Not a chance I do not like this. Relax,
I'll take it patiently, and very nearly the beginning and to get used ... I am very glad of
not having to call an eye doctor as these, though healed, always cost an arm and a leg. "

The night passed without any notable success, Bringas worried sick with excruciating pain cephalalgic
and eyes, Rosalia awake, sharing their care and monitoring within the blind husband and epileptic
girl, who was rushed to nightmares more alarming than those of ordinary
scenes because of that afternoon vividly excited.

By that of all Candidita accompanied her troubled friend the night, comforting her with his presence
and by paying very effective aid. It was very typical for such cases and knew a thousand little
things medical supplies domestic. In the early settlement was difficult, never be cowed, nor
his drumsticks known bone fatigue.

At dawn, more or less, Rosalia, losing sleep, fell asleep in a chair facing the bed marriage
where Thiers good lay, dormant since, and so was the lady fall drowsiness that it will start to
see the Torres and his famous beard and nose.

Also offered his view the sum, which was in part after part, developing their units on lengthy
space and saw the urgent time that day that dawned threatening ...
Suddenly the wretched Recobrose opening his eyes.

She thought she heard a ay! Rosalia, but his dream must have been
because the holy man seemed calm, measured breath and stated that
at last he fell asleep really.

"Torres ... money! - Rosalie thought, shaking his head to ward off that idea, as if this were a nuisance
to him pose in front -. And under what circumstances, my God !...».

XXI

But almost at once that such said Vinolé quickly thought, as these rays celestial mysticism that
speaks, a saving idea, an easy, efficacious, oh derived oddities of life!, in the same distressing
situation in which the family was. What things does God! He knows why he does them.

Rose from the chair quietly and with great pause to avoid waking the patient. I knew what I had to
do. The thing was clear and easy. What could not be done the day before, would at that as
evil. She had thought several times in the silver candlesticks, but How unselfish commitment
to D. Francisco, a man of such good eye, found out ...?

It could be I could be!

... She would care to replace them in place, bringing together very soon money necessary for
the performance, and so her husband would notice anything when he regained view. Would to God
and St. Lucia this out soon! May not be enough the product of the chandeliers for getting of the
amount he needed, besides money Torres, he needed the second term of Sobrino Hermanos, decided
to unite the above pieces of shiny silver screws that had ears, Augustine donation Caballero. Bringas
could not feel the need, and if by chance noticed by passing the hand through face, she would say
anything, I'd say ...

That they had been taken as a sign of mourning.

Doña

Candida was coming as a template for the credit operation planned. Found her in the dining room,
happy ever after, as savvy, as awake as if I had not had a bad night. Rosalie took the point
chocolate, so your friend hiciese his taste which had drinking.

While a respectable lady took care of this with the thoroughness that always put in such a pleasant
operation, her friend took their projects. Whispers were heard for a while intimate, and saw
himself doing Candida head nod, enough to provide security to the same question.

"Before noon you're all done.

Calm yourself ... For these things I'm worth yo a friend who is a lynx ... Stealth, activity,
understanding, everything is, and dispatches these commissioned by Jesus to say. "

There is reason to believe that by that time, the second stage of
its decline, was beginning Candida to see in person the Monte de Piedad
and lending houses, either for business their own convenience, either
to provide a sensitive service to any friend of many confidence.

This Maximo Manso called the second way to Dona Candida, and I note There was still a third way
much more pathetic.

Everything was arranged, then, that morning so easily and quickly like there Grande García said,
because they were not half past eleven when she was back with the money. Took him Rosalia forward
and was glad to have enough to meet Torres and Sobrino, atencioncillas maintaining a rest
for a little more or less.

"I do not know how to thank you ...-- said vehemently to his illustrious friend, shaking hands
-. Everything will soon return home, because I like my jewelry to make these trips; and only by
a great need ...».

No one knows how he pushed the conversation to a certain apurillo
who had, by calmly a rogue administrator ... Within two or three days
... How do those who deny this please had behaved so well?

Rosalie thought he tore a piece of his heart when you were among
the ten hard hands with thirst-quenching metal of his friend.

But there was no choice. Dona Candida became very joyful to see Bringas, who said that felt better,
although very weak in the head. The doctor had examined in the morning and prognosis was favorable.
Soon regain sight ... y. .. Even thought he saw something when departed the band ... What was
needed was a lot of rest, patience and take with method and timeliness
prescribed medicines.

"Who has come?" - Bringas asked sharply.

- I think it is Mr. Torres - said Candida - which has come to ask you.

- I have head so weak and yet so upset, I thought I heard counting money ... Although not want,
and although my doctor ordered me not to tamper with anything, I can not provide attention
to everything that happens at home. I can not help. I have the ear alert, and even when I sleep
I seem to not escape me no sound.

She said to him that all diseased brain wisely calls inaction that he must surrender their senses to
indifference and rest, that while he was in bed he had not been to make conversation, and that even
their children would enter the room.

This was manifested forming, with a deep sigh, and said that I needed more patience and strength
of will was to suppress their desire to know everything and give orders.

While this was spoken in the dark bedroom, Rosalie Torres whispered to La Salette. Great as
were the precautions taken to make no noise of money to have twenty
hard silver, tin tin was some slight vibrating in the room and spread
throughout the house in faint waves to reach the ear subtle Bringas.

Torres was most affected by the disease Your friend, expressed the hope that it was not anything
serious ... The bookkeeper Mompous had a similar attack in the light. "Nothing, that being one
day write, he was blind ... At first thought it was drop serene,
but ten days of sale and some medicines was good, though always delicate.

In the bathrooms are finished fifth ...». cure Bye the above so happy to take your money as afflicted
by the misfortune of D. Francisco.

A Isabelita, which was sad, concerned and not wanting to eat, she was sent home from Candida
to place him there all day playing with Irene and other girls in the neighborhood. Alfonsin was to
school, and Paquito, whom her father's illness was very sad, did not leave the house and wanted
a bite to eat at lunch. Candida was the only person who was there
a regular appetite.

"We need food, even making an effort - said that of Bringas -. Do not let you go well. We must
take strength to watch and work and take care all ... I also I have wanted, but I domain, daughter,
and as per requirement, because it is necessary. "

Shortly after our friend received a esquelita of Miracles in telling him that everything was finally
settled satisfactorily, and that waiting for the night. The letter breathed joy and satisfaction.

"This
poor Miracles do not know what is happening to us breaking ...-- Rosalie said the letter -. Poor
I beg you not to miss this night. Son, go there and give it a moment account of this disaster
... Look, you go through the return home of Fish and Carolina also
whole ... Ah, she has fault, with their hair works.

What a grotesque woman !...».

The seamstress was that day, but the lady saying goodbye was not Mary Magdalene to taffeta, to
return next week. In the afternoon was also Milagros, who felt not have known much before the
event to be flying to console his friend. His grief sincere was not a party to conceal the satisfaction
of the lien for the successful settlement of their conflict metal at the critical day. How
and how he had made the arrangement, I would say later, it was not intrude on the occasion of
things that did not care ... "And the doctor say?

". The excellent lady expected that blindness was an uneasiness a
few days.

Ask God to heal the man as well, that model of parents ... "How you feel you can not come tonight
to my house ... It'll be the meeting very bright, and as for the
buffet will be most wonderful ... Ya, ya I'll tell you how ... There
for a while. "

Bidding farewell at the door, could not repress some
very spontaneous outbursts of his passion dominant. As they say a
secret of importance, told her friend that that would evening dress
with a hint of white muslin scarf, lilac, which had placed inset and
a jersey Watteau ... At the last minute had been arranged as a T-shirt
he was sent to Paris to San Salomó ... I thought her hair combed up,
wavy large braid around the head and long locks behind ... 'Well,
not you mood to hear such rubbish ... Bye bye ... Tomorrow I will
come to know and follow our D. Francisco and counting, counting ...».

Bringas,
they all found out, he told his wife:

"I've heard your whispers with
Tellería at the door. What about? Have you dropped a fool? ... Poor
woman! The
collar of gold about his neck showed that his rank was high, but when we noticed a second ornament
of gold, also upon his brow, we knew that it must be supreme. For this ornament was nothing
less than the symbol of royalty, once worn by the ancient Pharaohs of Egypt, the double snakes
of the uraeus bending forward as though to strike, which, as we had seen, rose also from the
brow of the lion-headed sphinx of Harmac.

As he uncovered, his two companions leapt to the ground and prostrated themselves before him,
crying, "Barung! Barung!" while all three of us Englishmen saluted, involuntarily, I think,
and even the Child of Kings bowed.

The Sultan acknowledged our greetings by raising his spear. Then he spoke in a grave measured
voice:

"O Walda Nagasta, and you, white men, sons of great fathers, I have listened to the talk between
you and my servants; I confirm their words and I add to them. I am sorry that my generals tried
to kill you last night. I was making prayer to my god, or it should not have happened. I have
been well repaid for that deed, since an army should not make war upon four men, even though
by their secret power four men can defeat an army. I beseech you, and you also, Rose of Mur,
to accept my proffered friendship, since otherwise, ere long, you will soon be dead, and your
wisdom will perish with you for I am weary of this little war against a handful whom we despise.

"O Walda Nagasta, you have breathed threats against the Majesty of Harmac, but he is too strong
for you, nor may the might that can turn a few bricks to dust and shatter the bones of men
prevail against him who is shaped from the heart of a mountain and holds the spirit of eternity.
So at least I think: but even if it is decreed otherwise, what will that avail you? If it should
please the god to leave us because of your arts, the Fung will still remain to avenge him ere
they follow. Then I swear to you by my majesty and by the bones of my ancestors who sit in
the caves of Mur, that I will spare but one of the Abati Jews, yourself, O Child of Kings,
because of your great heart, and the three white men, your guests, should they survive the
battle, because of their courage and their wisdom. As for their brother, Black Windows, whom
I have captured, he must be sacrificed, since I have sworn it, unless you yield, when I will
plead for his life to the god, with what result I cannot tell. Yield, then, and I will not
even slay the Abati; they shall live on and serve the Fung as slaves and minister to the glory
of Harmac."

"It may not be, it may not be!" Maqueda answered, striking the pommel of her saddle with her
small hand. "Shall Jehovah whom Solomon, my father, worshipped, Jehovah of all the generations,
do homage to an idol shaped by the hands He made? My people are worn out; they have forgot
their faith and gone astray, as did Israel in the desert. I know it. It may even happen that
the time has come for them to perish, who are no longer warriors, as of old. Well, if so, let
them die free, and not as slaves. At least I, in whom their best blood runs, do not seek your
mercy, O Barung. I'll be no plaything in your house, who, at the worst, can always die, having
done my duty to my God and those who bred me. Thus I answer you as the Child of many Kings.
Yet as a woman," she added in a gentler voice, "I thank you for your courtesy. When I am slain,
Barung, if I am fated to be slain, think kindly of me, as one who did her best against mighty
odds," and her voice broke.

"That I shall always do," he answered gravely. "Is it ended?"

"Not quite," she answered. "These Western lords, I give them to you; I absolve them from their
promise. Why should they perish in a lost cause? If they take their wisdom to you to use against
me, you have vowed them their lives, and, perhaps, that of their brother, your captive. The poor girls are showing keen to follow his
mother that way of salvation ... Naturally, they were young and liked going to the theater
and attend the society. What scandals, suffocating, what whining by This incompatibility of
worldly comfort and religious duties! Not a day passed without there was some hubbub and syncope,
which was necessary to call the doctor and bring these and other drugs ... Fish tried to compromise,
agree wills, but could not nothing. Ultimately, it always sides with the poor girls, because she was
mortified see them praying over the bill and doing stupid penance. If they were very Christian
and Catholic, what drove the saints and martyrs make them point blank? For his part, D. Manuel
religious brake conceived it indispensable for the maintenance of society and order. Religion
had always defended and it seemed very well that governments protect her, chasing her detractors.
Came to admit, as indispensable in the scheme politician of his time, the hypocrisy of the state, but
private prudery will burst.

The most serious of all was the struggle Carolina with their sons. Little could not escape maternal
custody yet, and I was all day in church with her book in hand. But Joaquin, who was already
twenty years old, lawyer, philosopher, economist, writer, magazine, historian, poet, Theogonist, Athens,
how could submit to confession and communion every Sunday? Federico was also very early and made
the Majabarata articulejos. Big thunder burst when either said something that her mother seemed sacrilege.
Christ that was assembled! One day, eating, Carolina pulled the tablecloth, broken dishes, spilled
the contents of them and salt and wine, and shut himself in his room, where she cried for three
hours. A poor things Rosa and Josefa until last fall had dressed in short, were forced to confess
every month. Innocents, what sins could have if you did not even have a boyfriend?

The worst thing was that the lady cavalier Pez missed a guilt of irreligion of children. Yes,
he was an atheist masked, a herejote, a rationalist, it was content to hear Mass. only on Sundays,
almost from the door, talking politics with D. Cucurbits Francisco. Believed to genuflect when
rising, kneeling and scrawl on the tissue chest and forehead the sign of the cross, was sufficient.
For that it was better to be Protestant. In all the time who had married had not been approached
even once the court of penance. His devotion had been purely decorative, like carrying a hatchet
procession and sit on the banks of choice when it consecrated a bishop ... Finally, with this
nonsense of his wife, was the poor fish, not water, but stifled and bored. Who knew he had
gone to Carolina in the scouring of mysticism, and it was not work Lantigua Serafinita her cousin,
who enjoyed the view of saint. Speaking in silver, a premium was a calamity. In the church could
be seen daily at six o'clock and Serafinita Carolina, and there were dispatched to their liking.
At home, Mrs. Fish, sometimes changing the style threatening by comparison, for model put their children
under Luisito Sudre, the Telleria, he was a saint in milk, and already existed in their pink meat lashes.
The poor fish will consistently said that looking into the mirror D. Juan de Lantigua, the great
Catholic, great scholar and writer, so pious in theory and in practice, it did nothing contrary
dogma, nor their Christianity was of the formula, but sincere and real brave and straight, who
not ashamed to meet with the Church and to sit three hours on his knees beside the pious. It was not
like fish, the whole herd as moderate, which makes religion a ladder to climb to high places,
it was not like those men who get rich with assets Clergy and then preach Catholicism in Congress
to fool the fools, like those men leading to Christ on the lips and Lucifer in the heart, and believe
that giving some small rooms for the pope already been met. Farce, comedy, abomination!

Finally, D. Manuel had taken home abhorrence, and was on it at least possible. The peace did not exist
for him only in the office, which did nothing but smoke and receive
friends, and home of one of these, and Bringas, for example.

Oh, how I envied household peace D. Francisco and the sweet harmony between the characters of both
spouse! He had been happy in his time, but not anymore. Et in Arcadia ego. He was an outcast, a
banished, and asked him please to have affection and even cuddle him, to console of the troubled
life she led at home.

Pez had these things to Rosalia with great vehemence, and she listened with keenest interest
and pity.

Chatting, chatting, just felt the passing of the hours, and when the deep the shaded patio
out slow, mixed in a wet fresquecillo, when sunlight is dilated in the heights and the sky began
to nail the pale stars, D. Francisco, leaving the laborious hair, rubbing his eyes appeared, and
took part in the conversation.

XIV

From Augustine's cousin moved to Bordeaux, Rosalia not going
to the theater but later to time, occupying towns of sick friends
or those who are bored of repetition too much of a dramatic piece.

I do not remember if it was the Monday or Tuesday when Milagros had the grace to stay home.
D. Francisco went to these meetings with his wife, but felt so tired lately that Rosalia had to
go alone with Paquito. In May, the proximity examinations required the young discreet not to
abandon their studies, and then accompanied her mother to the door of the house Telleria,
turning to his fatigue and his books. Fish was in charge of carrying Mrs. Bringas the marital home
at noon or one night, and by the way, that from the first piece of the Atocha Street Palace not
very long, rarely leaving D. Manuel to sing the jeremiad of domestic disturbance. Every night,
pitiable recounted episodes, and able to move in the storms of compassion Rosalia chest.

When this arrived home, and Don Francisco, tired eyes and head for reading two or three newspapers
after the work of the cenotaph, had gone to bed and dozed coughing and snoring away the hours
with others.

After a tour of the nursery to see if they have enough clothes or Isabelita nightmare, chatted
a bit with Rosalia her husband, while he was dropping one by one their finery, their skirts and
corset that machine where their meat, imprisoned, very visible ways demanded freedom. Although
much had happy to go to the gatherings in Miracles, routine flatter her husband inspirábale concepts
something contrary to the truth, but rather it can be forgiven in favor of trials beautifully
exact about things and people was observed by her in the halls of Telleria.

"Son, if you do not return, I will not further. It annoys me the gathering of miracles which no you can
imagine ... That's not for me. You see some things ...! Of course
I laughed more ...!

Milagros poor, as is so confident with me, everything I know tells me his troubles as if I pass
it. It is a suffocating, and I do not know how that woman has a soul to receive people without possessing
means nothing. Tonight has not fuss over four, four rubbish ... Shame! Imagine saying that the
freeloaders will not go to those houses that to give them dinner ... Never have I seen a woman
over her chest. Had given the seven and still did not know how to fix the buffet. Sent to the cafe ...
is to laugh ... and would not fiarle twenty pounds of pasta. I do not know where he got that
sweet ham was all cuts and leftovers, and that boar's head that smelled of waste ... Finally,
sucks ... He had good wines, yes ... Who knows where it's been taken out, and who is sucker
that gave ... Apuradísima was poor, but how he hid ...! Do not believe, happy ever after, everyone
smiling, and when I went to was transformed and looked into a sea captain commanding the maneuver
in case of shipwreck. (Indignándose.) Ah, that Badulaque, zanganote that the Marquis is to
blame. Is committed to the eyes, and the day when Creditors throw up, no shirt will wear. Poor
Milagros is very good, is a soul from God, but we must recognize that it is spendthrift. If
they put thousand dollars in hand, it spends in a day like a hundred reals. I give advice, preach it,
we trace a plan, a method, but quia!, is useless. Sometimes it seems reformed, but goes, goes
through a store, see any rag, and my money goodbye ... loses his wits, gets the fever ... I
I mean, when I buy: "I jumped you will screw your head ..." And if you saw ...! Children pitiful.
Tonight I entered the room Leopoldito, and I say it looks like a screen of a shoe shop site,
the wall full of doodles stuck with wafers, scenes fights, cartoons from newspapers ... in short,
indecentísimo, and everything on the other hand, all stirred, much smell of drugstore potions,
because the guy is a little bit off; noveluchas of a peseta instead of textbooks, whips and sticks
in such numbers that would have to put store it; the unmade bed, because it had risen to six
in the evening ... There walked limping with broken boots, begging food and sweets and meats
peering that brought to pounce on them like a hungry ... Gustavo is another matter. What Formica
and how well educated! There he was arguing with men and throwing a lot of rumbling word ...
It seems to me a stuffed fraquito Scropp your premature baby, and when he speaks, as well
as when he walks, he seems to have been wound with a key ... Mary is what is being beautiful.
The Marquise does not present even to avoid the age, and give pain to see that fixie as developed
as ... Do not think, has more front than your mom ... see da pain stuck in there playing with
dolls, tangling with the issues raised or copying French. Pretty poor had to do tonight to watch
the brother does not metiese dirty hands in everything and not sobase lick candy and ice cream
... I took a bud that reeked of cod liver oil, and fixed fingers went around of Leopoldito.

"(Indignant
again.) But the Marquis ... Be a record! Who hears and does not know him, believes which is
the wisest man in the world. Speaks only of the Senate and the things he said or will say there.
What a golden beak! He would arrange all the affairs of Spain if he leave ... But as he is
not allowed, that the country is lost. He says the commission will absorb all the time ...
Opinion here, advice there ... Milagros told me that a few months this part is devoted to the
maids, and can not enter any house other than a fear of ugly. Finally, the Marquis, under that
gentleman capita, is a cesspool.

A I can not see me because you loose every indirect ... It disgusts me, and poor Milagros cause
me great pain. Poor woman, poor martyr! Imagine that your mariducho, as she says, the fourth
is always a question, and the unfortunate passing off to succeed Black with household spending.
So, no wonder the poor thing has had some distractions ... Not me who says, what others say, and
though I repeat with confidence, does not mean it that created it, because who knows if ...».

D.
Francisco, slept deeply and was so far from all the miseries counted as his wife is Heaven on
Earth.

XV

Not dealt with all the secrets on the same subject, that the fertile imagination of Rosalia instinctively
sought variety in those rations night lip service to that cooed a good husband. Always attentive
to sustain the role he represented and that from some time it required
great care, and depart every day more than a sincere expression of
his character, showed himself upset about things that actually produced
more pleased that penalty, verbi gratia:

"Oh, my son!, I thought
that our friend had no fish tonight to tell their monkey business
domestic.

Really, I have pity ... Sickness but what man and what organ of lamentation! Carolina does
not have God's forgiveness, and it could be amended, at least to
prevent migraines her husband gives us ...».

D. Francisco fell asleep before her. Sometimes Rosalia was sleepless and restless until very
Later, envying the sweet rest of that blessed, that lay on his conscience soft as an angel
in the clouds of glory. The ingenious lady was not softness similar but something hard and peaks
that were in distress all night. Because his passion estate had been imperceptibly to a field
fraught with danger, and had to hide acquisitions that made continuous
by the most anti-economic tradition Rosalia.

Her dresser drawers stuffed with pieces of cloth, they cut those be cut. World kept large trunk,
with suspicious discretion, several thousand species of harness, one old, retouched or new others, particularly
half done, revealing the sudden stop work by the presence of witnesses bothersome. Was necessary
to hide it to surveillance D. Tax Francisco that got it all, who
had questions for up to a cotton reel no budget in its spending plan.

Rosalia lies unveiled in mind that they to serve for the defense in case of surprise. What nonsense
would explain the large growth the richness and variety to your wardrobe? Because the crutch
of the gifts of the Queen was well spent and no longer could be used safely.

A D-Day Francis returned from the office earlier than usual, and was surprised to Rosalia more
fun in their work, running on the Camon, as if this were a workshop a dressmaker, and assisted
a seamstress who had brought home. Workshop seemed more Carrion Sobrino Hermanos branch.

«Buuut woman, what is it?" - Absorbed Thiers said, as someone who sees things supernatural or magical
and does not believe his eyes.

There were about twenty-four yards and Mozambique, for two pesetas rod, checkered nice and airy
fabric that Pipaón, in dreams, I saw every night on their flesh. The huge strip of cloth is dragged
across the room, climbed on chairs, hung arm of the sofa and lay on the ground to be broken
into pieces by scissors the officer, who, kneeling, consulted with
paper patterns before cutting.

Strips and powdered cuttings of the most bizarre geometric sections, cut on the bias, could be
seen on trunk awaiting the hand that would combine business with Mozambique. Pieces of shiny
satin brightly colored hot taps were not yet withdrawn from the palette, the good Bringas was
scattered throughout the piece, between evil twisted ribbons and
lace pieces.

The two women could not walk through there without their skirts are entangled in Mozambique and
twenty yards of navy blue poplin that had fallen from a chair and
was linked to foulard strips.

In that beautiful mess that smell out of clothes very special store, which is a remnant of the
industrial dye smells, mixed with paper and wooden packaging. On the couch, half a dozen colored
figurines lying occupied in the ladies impossible, reed-thin, stiff as sticks, whose feet are
the size of fingers hand, women whose mouth a red wafer, which appear dressed in paper and
look each other in face of idiocy.

To be caught in the act, the first impulse was to gather all Rosalia, but she ran out of time
and dread the same sugiriole an early exit, very subtle stroke of genius that understanding.

"Hush, man, by God - he said, putting his arm around her and gently sacándole Camon's not aware
that the dressmaker -. Is ... I thought you had told him last night. These dresses are in Miracles.
Yesterday, if you saw!, Had the poor a quarrel with that awful Marquis Caribbean. That if he was
the one spent, if she spent more, that if you, if I ... For some there is a tragedy. I was there
... and I tell you I was thinking send them to bring Arnica ... Milagros, now can not entrust anything
because Eponine her husband did not pay the bills, bought fabric and brought home as a seamstress
to take a couple of summer dresses ... What could be more natural? The poor are managed twenty-four
Mozambique yards, two ESP staff, and twenty of poplin, fourteen ...
You see how economy.

For anything that comes tagarote, which undoubtedly had lost hundreds of dollars to a jack, and the
same was to see the fabrics and dressmaker, begins to take by mouth
that heresies ... Holy Christ!

I stayed ... Nothing: everything is back to trample on the web and foot to figurines, saying:
Brrr ...!, whatnot. The poor little Milagros has ruined their rags. Have you seen what donkey? Then
he took off his stories, and catching the poor seamstress for a arm, stood in the street without
giving it time to put the blanket. Have you seen what piece of barbarian? ... Milagros fainted.
We had to apply ether and I do not know what else ... In order for it out of this commitment,
I had to bring me home fabrics and dressmaker work to do here.


At the gate of the palace we halted, and Joshua, riding up, asked Maqueda sulkily whether he
should conduct "the Gentiles," for that was his polite description of us, to the lodging for
pilgrims in the western town.

"No, my uncle," answered Maqueda; "these foreign lords will be housed in the guest-wing of
the palace."

"In the guest-wing of the palace? It is not usual," gobbled Joshua, swelling himself out like
a great turkey cock. "Remember, O niece, that you are still unmarried. I do not yet dwell in
the palace to protect you."

"So I found out in the plain yonder," she replied; "still, I managed to protect myself. Now,
I pray you, no words. I think it necessary that these my guests should be where their goods
already are, in the safest place in Mur. You, my uncle, as you told us, are badly hurt, by
which accident you were prevented from accepting the challenge of the Sultan of the Fung. Go,
then, and rest; I will send the court physician to you at once. Good-night, my uncle; when
you are recovered we will meet again, for we have much that we must discuss. Nay, nay, you
are most kind, but I will not detain you another minute. Seek your bed, my uncle, and forget
not to thank God for your escape from many perils."

At this polite mockery Joshua turned perfectly pale with rage, like the turkey cock when his
wattles fade from scarlet into white. Before he could make any answer, however, Maqueda had
vanished under the archway, so his only resource was to curse us, and especially Quick, who
had caused him to fall from his horse. Unfortunately the Sergeant understood quite enough Arabic
to be aware of the tenor of his remarks, which he resented and returned:

"Shut it, Porpoise," he said, "and keep your eyes where Nature put 'em, or they'll fall out."

"What says the Gentile?" spluttered Joshua, whereon Orme, waking up from one of his fits of
lethargy, replied in Arabic:

"He says that he prays you, O Prince of princes, to close your noble mouth and to keep your
high-bred eyes within their sockets lest you should lose them"; at which words those who were
listening broke into a fit of laughter, for one redeeming characteristic among the Abati was
that they had a sense of humour.

After this I do not quite know what happened for Orme showed signs of fainting, and I had to
attend to him. When I looked round again the gates were shut and we were being conducted toward
the guest-wing of the palace by a number of gaily dressed attendants.

They took us to our rooms--cool, lofty chambers ornamented with glazed tiles of quaint colour
and beautiful design, and furnished somewhat scantily with articles made of rich-hued woods.
This guest-wing of the palace, where these rooms were situated, formed, we noted, a separate
house, having its own gateway, but, so far as we could see, no passage or other connection
joining it to the main building. In front of it was a small garden, and at its back a courtyard
with buildings, in which we were informed our camels had been stabled. At the time we noted
no more, for night was falling, and, even if it had not been, we were too worn out to make
researches.

Moreover, Orme was now desperately ill--so ill that he could scarcely walk leaning even on
our shoulders. Still, he would not be satisfied till he was sure that our stores were safe,
and, before he could be persuaded to lie down, insisted upon being supported to a vault with
copper-bound doors, which the officers opened, revealing the packages that had been taken from
the camels.

"Count them, Sergeant," he said, and Quick obeyed by the light of a lamp that the officer held
at the open door. "All correct, sir," he said, "so far as I can make out."

"Very good, Sergeant. Lock the door and take the keys."

Again he obeyed, and, when the officer demurred to their surrender, turned on him so fiercely
that the man thought better of it and departed with a shrug of his shoulders, as I supposed
to make report to his superiors.

Then at length we got Orme to bed, and, as he complained of intolerable pains in his head and
would take nothing but some milk and water, having first ascertained that he had no serious
physical injuries that I could discover, I administered to him a strong sleeping-draught from
my little travelling medicine case. To our great relief this took effect upon him in about
twenty minutes, causing him to sink into a stupor from which he did not awake for many hours.

Quick and I washed ourselves, ate some food that was brought to us, and then took turns to
watch Orme throughout the night. When I was at my post about six o'clock on the following morning
he woke up and asked for drink, which I gave to him. After swallowing it he began to wander
in his mind, and, on taking his temperature, I found that he had over five degrees of fever.
The end of it was that he went off to sleep again, only waking up from time to time and asking
for more drink.

Twice during the night and early morning Maqueda sent to inquire as to his condition, and,
apparently not satisfied with the replies, about ten in the forenoon arrived herself, accompanied
by two waiting-ladies and a long-bearded old gentleman who, I understood, was the court physician.

"May I see him?" she asked anxiously.

I answered yes, if she and those with her were quite quiet. Then I led them into the darkened
room where Quick stood like a statue at the head of the bed, only acknowledging her presence
with a silent salute. She gazed at Oliver's flushed face and the forehead blackened where the
gases from the explosion had struck him, and as she gazed I saw her beautiful violet eyes fill
with tears. Then abruptly she turned and left the sick-chamber. Outside its doors she waved
back her attendants imperiously and asked me in a whisper:

"Will he live?"

"I do not know," I answered, for I thought it best that she should learn the truth. "If he
is only suffering from shock, fatigue, and fever, I think so, but if the explosion or the blow
on his head where it cut has fractured the skull, then----"

"Save him," she muttered. "I will give you all I--nay, pardon me; what need is there to tempt
you, his friend, with reward? Only save him, save him."

"I will do what I can, Lady, but the issue is in other hands than mine," I answered, and just
then her attendants came up and put an end to the conversation.

To this day the memory of that old rabbi, the court physician, affects me like a nightmare,
for of all the medical fools that ever I met he was by far the most pre-eminent. All about
the place he followed me suggesting remedies that would have been absurd even in the Middle
Ages. The least harmful of them, I remember, was that poor Orme's head should be plastered
with a compound of butter and the bones of a still-born child, and that he should be given
some filthy compound to drink which had been specially blessed by the priests. Others there
were also that would certainly have killed him in half-an-hour.

Well, I got rid of him at last for the time, and returned to my vigil. It was melancholy work,
since no skill that I had could tell me whether my patient would live or die. Nowadays the
young men might know, or say that they did, but it must be remembered that, as a doctor, I
am entirely superannuated. How could it be otherwise, seeing that I have passed the best of
my life in the desert without any opportunity of keeping up with the times.

Three days went by in this fashion, and very anxious days they were. For my part, although
I said nothing of it to any one, I believed that there was some injury to the patient's skull
and that he would die, or at best be paralyzed. Quick, however, had a different opinion. He
said that he had seen two men in this state before from the concussion caused by the bursting
of large shells near to them, and that they both recovered although one of them became an idiot.

But it was Maqueda who first gave me any definite hope. On the third evening she came and sat
by Orme for awhile, her attendants standing at a little distance. When she left him there was
a new look upon her face--a very joyful look--which caused me to ask her what had happened.

"Oh! he will live," she answered.

I inquired what made her think so.

"This," she replied, blushing. "Suddenly he looked up and in my own tongue asked me of what
colour were my eyes. I answered that it depended upon the light in which they might be seen.

"'Not at all,' he said. 'They are always vi-o-let, whether the curtain is drawn or no.' Now,
physician Adams, tell me what is this colour vi-o-let?"

"That of a little wild flower which grows in the West in the spring, O Maqueda--a very beautiful
and sweet-scented flower which is dark blue like your eyes."

"Indeed, Physician," she said. "Well, I do not know this flower, but what of that? Your friend
will live and be sane. A dying man does not trouble about the colour of a lady's eyes, and
one who is mad does not give that colour right."

"Are you glad, O Child of Kings?" I asked.

"Of course," she answered, "seeing that I am told that this captain alone can handle the firestuffs
which you have brought with you, and, therefore, that it is necessary to me that he should
not die."

"I understand," I replied. "Let us pray that we may keep him alive. But there are many kinds
of firestuffs, O Maqueda, and of one of them which chances to give out violet flames I am not
sure that my friend is master. Yet in this country it may be the most dangerous of all."

Now when she heard these words the Child of Kings looked me up and down angrily. Then suddenly
she laughed a little in a kind of silent way that is peculiar to her, and, without saying anything,
beckoned to her ladies and left the place.

"Very variegated thing, woman, sir," remarked Quick, who was watching. (I think he meant to
say "variable.") "This one, for instance, comes up that passage like a tired horse--shuffle,
shuffle, shuffle--for I could hear the heels of her slippers on the floor. But now she goes
out like a buck seeking its mate--head in air and hoof lifted. How do you explain it, Doctor?"

"You had better ask the lady herself, Quick. Did the Captain take that soup she brought him?"

"Every drop, sir, and tried to kiss her hand afterward, being still dazed, poor man, poor man!
I saw him do it, knowing no better. He'll be sorry enough when he comes to himself."

"No doubt, Sergeant. But meanwhile let us be glad that both their spirits seem to have improved,
and if she brings any more soup when I am not there, I should let him have it. It is always
well to humour invalids and women."

"Yes, Doctor; but," he added, with a sudden fall of face, "invalids recover sometimes, and
then how about the women."

"Sufficient to the day is the evil thereof," I answered; "you had better go out for exercise;
it is my watch." But to myself I thought that Fate was already throwing its ominous shadow
before, and that it lay deep in Maqueda's violet eyes.

Well, to cut a long story short, this was the turning-point of Orme's illness, and from that
day he recovered rapidly, for, as it proved, there was no secret injury to the skull, and he
was suffering from nothing except shock and fever. During his convalescence the Child of Kings
came to see him several times, or to be accurate, if my memory serves me right, every afternoon.
Of course, her visits were those of ceremony--that is to say, she was always accompanied by
several of her ladies, that thorn in my flesh, the old doctor, and one or two secretaries and
officers-in-waiting.

But as Oliver was now moved by day into a huge reception room, and these people of the court
were expected to stop at one end of it while she conversed with him at the other, to all intents
and purposes, save for the presence of myself and Quick, her calls were of a private nature.
Nor were we always present, since, now that my patient was out of danger the Sergeant and I
went out riding a good deal--investigating Mur and its surroundings.

It may be asked what they talked about on these occasions. I can only answer that, so far as
I heard, the general subject was the politics of Mur and its perpetual war with the Fung. Still,
there must have been other topics which I did not hear, since incidently I discovered that
Orme was acquainted with many of Maqueda's private affairs whereof he could only have learned
from her lips.

Thus when I ventured to remark that perhaps it was not altogether wise for a young man in his
position to become so intimate with the hereditary ruler of an exclusive tribe like the Abati,
he replied cheerfully that this did not in the least matter, as, of course, according to their
ancient laws, she could only marry with one of her own family, a fact which made all complications
impossible. I inquired which of her cousins, of whom I knew she had several, was the happy
man. He replied:

"None of them. As a matter of fact, I believe that she is officially affianced to that fat
uncle of hers, the fellow who blows his own trumpet so much, but I needn't add that this is
only a form to which she submits in order to keep the others off."

"Ah!" I said. "I wonder if Prince Joshua thinks it only a form?"

"Don't know what he thinks, and don't care," he replied, yawning; "I only know that things
stand as I say, and that the porpoise-man has as much chance of becoming the husband of Maqueda
as you have of marrying the Empress of China. And now, to drop this matrimonial conversation
and come to something more important, have you heard anything about Higgs and your son?"

"You are more in the way of learning state secrets than I am, Orme," I answered sarcastically,
being rather irritated at the course of events and his foolishness. "What have you heard?"

"This, old fellow. I can't say how she knows it, but Maqueda says that they are both in good
health and well treated. Only our friend Barung sticks to his word and proposes to sacrifice
poor old Higgs on this day fortnight. Now, of course, that must be prevented somehow, and prevented
it shall be if it costs me my life. Don't you suppose that I have been thinking about myself
all the time, for it isn't so, only the trouble is that I can't find any plan of rescue which
will hold water."

"Then what's to be done, Orme? I haven't spoken much of the matter before for fear of upsetting
you when you were still weak, but now that you are all right again we must come to some decision."

"I know, I know," he answered earnestly; "and I tell you this, that rather than let Higgs die
alone there, I will give myself up to Barung, and, if I can't save him, suffer with him, or
for him if I can. Listen: there is to be a great council held by the Child of Kings on the
day after to-morrow which we must attend, for it has only been postponed until I was well enough.
At this council that rogue Shadrach is to be put upon his trial, and will, I believe, be condemned
to death. Also we are formally to return Sheba's ring which Maqueda lent to you to be used
in proof of her story. Well, we may learn something then, or at any rate must make up our minds
to definite action. And now I am to have my first ride, am I not? Come on, Pharaoh," he added
to the dog, which had stuck at his bedside all through his illness so closely that it was difficult
to entice him away even to eat; "we are going for a ride, Pharaoh; do you hear that, you faithful
beast?"

CHAPTER IX

THE SWEARING OF THE OATH

Two or three days after this conversation, I forget exactly which it was, Maqueda held her
council in the great hall of the palace. When we entered the place in charge of a guard, as
though we were prisoners, we found some hundreds of Abati gathered there who were seated in
orderly rows upon benches. At the farther end, in an apse-shaped space, sat the Child of Kings
herself on a gilded or perhaps a golden chair of which the arms terminated in lions' heads.
She was dressed in a robe of glittering silver, and wore a ceremonial veil embroidered with
stars, also of silver, and above it, set upon her dark hair, a little circlet of gold, in which
shone a single gem that looked like a ruby. Thus attired, although her stature is small, her
appearance was very dignified and beautiful, especially as the gossamer veil added mystery
to her face.

Behind the throne stood soldiers armed with spears and swords, and at its sides and in front
of it were gathered her court to the number of a hundred or more, including her waiting-ladies,
who in two companies were arranged to the right and left. Each member of this court was gorgeously
dressed according to his profession.

There were the generals and captains with Prince Joshua at the head of them in their Norman-like
chain armour. There were judges in black robes and priests in gorgeous garments; there were
territorial lords, of whose attire I remember only that they wore high boots, and men who were
called Market-masters, whose business it was to regulate the rate of exchange of products,
and with them the representatives of other trades.

In short, here was collected all the aristocracy of the little population of the town and territory
of Mur, every one of whom, as we found afterwards, possessed some high-sounding title answering
to those of our dukes and lords and Right Honourables, and knights, to say nothing of the Princes
of the Blood, of whom Joshua was the first.

Really, although it looked so fine and gay, the spectacle was, in a sense, piteous, being evidently
but a poor mockery and survival of the pageantry of a people that had once been great. The
vast hall in which they were assembled showed this, since, although the occasion was one that
excited public interest, it was after all but a quarter filled by those who had a right to
be present.

With much dignity and to the sound of music we were marched up the broad nave, if I may describe
it thus, for the building, with its apse and supporting cedar columns, bore some resemblance
to a cathedral, till we reached the open space in front of the throne, where our guards prostrated
themselves in their Eastern fashion, and we saluted its occupant in our own. Then, chairs having
been given to us, after a pause a trumpet blew, and from a side chamber was produced our late
guide, Shadrach, heavily manacled and looking extremely frightened.

The trial that followed I need not describe at length. It took a long while, and the three
of us were called upon to give evidence as to the quarrel between our companion, the Professor,
and the prisoner about the dog Pharaoh and other matters. The testimony, however, that proclaimed
the guilt of Shadrach was that of his companion guides, who, it appeared, had been threatened
with floggings unless they told the truth.

These men swore, one after the other, that the abandonment of Higgs had been a preconceived
plan. Several of them added that Shadrach was in traitorous communication with the Fung, whom
he had warned of our advent by firing the reeds, and had even contrived to arrange that we
were to be taken while he and the other Abati, with the camels laden with our rifles and goods
which they hoped to steal, passed through in safety.

In defence Shadrach boldly denied the whole story, and especially that he had pushed the Gentile,
Higgs, off his dromedary, as was alleged, and mounted it himself because his own beast had
broken down or been injured.

However, his lies availed him little, since, after consultation with the Child of Kings, presently
one of the black-robed judges condemned him to suffer death in a very cruel fashion which was
reserved for traitors. Further, his possessions were to be forfeited to the State, and his
wife and children and household to become public slaves, which meant that the males would be
condemned to serve as soldiers, and the females allotted to certain officials in the order
of their rank.

Several of those who had conspired with him to betray us to the Fung were also deprived of
their possessions and condemned to the army, which was their form of penal servitude.

Thus amidst a mighty wailing of those concerned and of their friends and relatives ended this
remarkable trial, of which I give some account because it throws light upon the social conditions
of Abati. What hope is there for a people when its criminals are sent, not to jail, but to
serve as soldiers, and their womenfolk however innocent, are doomed to become the slaves of
the judges or whoever these may appoint. Be it added, however, that in this instance Shadrach
and his friends deserved all they got, since, even allowing for a certain amount of false evidence,
undoubtedly, for the purposes of robbery and private hate, they did betray those whom their
ruler had sent them to guide and protect.

When this trial was finished and Shadrach had been removed, howling for mercy and attempting
to kiss our feet like the cur he was, the audience who had collected to hear it and to see
us, the Gentile strangers, dispersed, and the members of the Privy Council, if I may call it
so, were summoned by name to attend to their duties. When all had gathered, we three were requested
to advance and take seats which had been placed for us among the councillors.

Then came a pause, and, as I had been instructed that I should do, I advanced and laid Sheba's
ring upon a cushion held by one of the court officers, who carried it to Maqueda.

"Child of Kings," I said, "take back this ancient token which you lent to me to be a proof
of your good faith and mine. Know that by means of it I persuaded our brother who is captive,
a man learned in all that has to do with the past, to undertake this mission, and through him
the Captain Orme who stands before you, and his servant, the soldier."

She took it and, after examination, showed it to several of the priests, by whom it was identified.

"Though I parted from it with fear and doubt, the holy ring has served its purpose well," she
said, "and I thank you, Physician, for returning it to my people and to me in safety."

Then she replaced it on the finger from which it had been withdrawn when she gave it to me
many months before.

There, then, that matter ended.

Now an officer cried:

"Walda Nagasta speaks!" whereon every one repeated, "Walda Nagasta speaks," and was silent.

Then Maqueda began to address us in her soft and pleasant voice.

"Strangers from the Western country called England," she said, "be pleased to hear me. You
know our case with the Fung--that they surround us and would destroy us. You know that in our
extremity I took advantage of the wandering hither of one of you a year ago to beg him to go
to his own land and there obtain firestuffs and those who understand them, with which to destroy
the great and ancient idol of the Fung. For that people declare that if this idol is destroyed
they will leave the land they dwell in for another, such being their ancient prophecy."

"Pardon, O Child of Kings," interrupted Orme, "but you will remember that only the other day
Barung, Sultan of the Fung, said that in this event his nation would still live on to avenge
their god, Harmac. Also he said that of all the Abati he would leave you alive alone."

Now at these ill-omened words a shiver and a murmur went through the Council. But Maqueda only
shrugged her shoulders, causing the silver trimmings on her dress to tinkle.

"I have told you the ancient prophecy," she answered, "and for the rest words are not deeds.
If the foul fiend, Harmac, goes I think that the Fung will follow him. Otherwise, why do they
make sacrifice to Earthquake as the evil god they have to fear? And when some five centuries
ago, such an earthquake shook down part of the secret city in the bowels of the mountains that
I will show to you afterwards, why did they fly from Mur and take up their abode in the plain,
as they said, to protect the god?"

"I do not know," answered Oliver. "If our brother were here, he whom the Fung have captured,
he might know, being learned in the ways of idol-worshipping, savage peoples."

"Alas! O Son of Orme," she said, "thanks to that traitor whom but now we have condemned, he
is not here and, perhaps, could tell us nothing if he were. At least, the saying runs as I
have spoken it, and for many generations, because of it, we Abati have desired to destroy the
idol of the Fung to which so many of us have been offered in sacrifice through the jaws of
their sacred lions. Now I ask," and she leaned forward, looking at Oliver, "will you do this
for me?"

"Speak of the reward, my niece," broke in Joshua in his thick voice when he saw that we hesitated
what to answer, "I have heard that these Western Gentiles are a very greedy people, who live
and die for the gold which we despise."

"Ask him, Captain," exclaimed Quick, "if they despise land also, since yesterday afternoon
I saw one of them try to cut the throat of another over a piece not bigger than a large dog-kennel."

"Yes," I added, for I confess that Joshua's remarks nettled me, "and ask him whether the Jews
did not despoil the Egyptians of their ornaments of gold in the old days, and whether Solomon,
whom he claims as a forefather, did not trade in gold to Ophir, and lastly whether he knows
that most of his kindred in other lands make a very god of gold."

So Orme, as our spokesman, put these questions with great gusto to Joshua, whom he disliked
intensely, whereat some of the Council, those who were not of the party of the Prince, smiled
or even laughed, and the silvery ornaments upon Maqueda's dress began to shake again as though
she also were laughing behind her veil. Still, she did not seem to think it wise to allow Joshua
to answer--if he could--but did so herself, saying:

"The truth is, O my friends, that here we set small store by gold because, being shut in and
unable to trade, it is of no use to us save as an ornament. Were it otherwise, doubtless we
should value it as much as the rest of the world, Jew or Gentile, and shall do so when we are
freed from our foes who hem us in. Therefore, my uncle is wrong to claim as a virtue that which
is only a necessity, especially when, as your servant says," and she pointed to the Sergeant,
"our people make land their gold and will spend their lives in gaining more of it, even when
they have enough."

"Then do the Gentiles seek no reward for their services?" sneered Joshua.

"By no means, Prince," answered Oliver, "we are soldiers of fortune, since otherwise why should
we have come here to fight your quarrel" (laying an unpleasant emphasis on the "your") "against
a chief who, if half savage, to us seems to have some merits, those of honour and courage,
for instance? If we risk our lives and do our work, we are not too proud to take whatever we
can earn. Why should we be, seeing that some of us need wealth, and that our brother, who is
as good as dead yonder, owing to the treachery of those who were sent to guard him, has relatives
in England who are poor and should be compensated for his loss?"

"Why, indeed?" ejaculated Maqueda. "Listen, now, my friends. In my own name and in that of
the Abati people I promised to you as many camel-loads of this gold as you can carry away from
Mur, and before the day is done I will show it to you if you dare follow me to where it lies hid."

"First the work, then the pay," said Oliver. "Now tell us, Child of Kings, what is that work?"

"This, O Son of Orme. You must swear--if this is not against your consciences as Christians--that
for the space of one year from to-day you will serve me and fight for me and be subject to
my laws, striving all the while to destroy the idol Harmac by your Western skill and weapons,
after which you shall be free to go whither you will with your reward."

"And if we swear, Lady," asked Oliver after reflection, "tell us what rank shall we hold in
your service?"

"You shall be my chief captain for this enterprise, O Son of Orme, and those with you shall
serve under you in such positions as you may please."

At these words a murmur of dissatisfaction arose from the mail-clad generals in the Council.

"Are we then, to obey this stranger, O Child of Kings?" queried Joshua as their spokesman.

"Aye, my uncle, so far as this great enterprise is concerned, as I have said. Can you handle
the firestuffs of which they alone have the secret? Could any three of you have held the gate
of Harmac against the armies of the Fung and sent it flying skyward?"

She paused and waited in the midst of a sullen silence.

"You do not answer because you cannot," continued Maqueda. "Then for this purpose be content
to serve awhile under the command of those who have the skill and power which you lack."

Still there was no answer.

"Lady," said Orme in this ominous quiet, "you are so good as to make me a general among your
soldiers, but will they obey me? And who are your soldiers? Does every man of the Abati bear arms?"

"Alas! no," she replied, fixing upon this latter question perhaps because she could not answer
the first. "Alas! no. In the old days it was otherwise, when my great ancestresses ruled, and
then we did not fear the Fung. But now the people will not serve as soldiers. They say it takes
them from their trades and the games they love; they say they cannot give the time in youth;
they say that it degrades a man to obey the orders of those set over him; they say that war
is barbarous and should be abolished, and all the while the brave Fung wait without to massacre
our men and make our women slaves. Only the very poor and the desperate, and those who have
offended against the laws will serve in my army, except it be as officers. Oh! and therefore
are the Abati doomed," and, throwing back her veil, suddenly, she burst into tears before us all.

I do not know that I ever remember seeing a sight more pathetic in its way than that of this
beautiful and high-spirited young woman weeping in the presence of her Council over the utter
degeneracy of the race she was called upon to rule. Being old and accustomed to these Eastern
expressions of emotion, I remained silent, however; but Oliver was so deeply affected that
I feared lest he should do something foolish. He went red, he went white, and was rising from
his seat to go to her, had I not caught him by the arm and pulled him back. As for Quick, he
turned his eyes to the ceiling, as though engaged in prayer, and I heard him muttering:

"The Lord help the poor thing, the Lord help her; the one pearl in the snout of all these gilded
swine! Well, I understand I am a bit of a general now, and if I don't make 'em sit up for her
sake my name ain't Samuel Quick."

Meanwhile there was much consternation and indignant murmuring amongst the Court, which felt
that reflections had been thrown upon it collectively and individually. At such a crisis, as
usual, Prince Joshua took the lead. Rising from his seat, he knelt, not without difficulty,
before the throne, and said:

"O Child of Kings, why do you distress us with such words? Have you not the God of Solomon
to protect you?"

"God protects those who protect themselves," sobbed Maqueda.

"And have you not many brave officers?"

"What are officers without an army?"

"And have you not me, your uncle, your affianced, your lover?" and he laid his hand where he
conceived his heart to be, and stared up at her with his rolling, fish-like eyes. "Had it not
been for the interference of these Gentiles, in whom you seem to put such trust," he went on,
"should I not have taken Barung captive the other day, and left the Fung without a head?" If you do not want to give it to me, and I will understand the
consideration you owe me. " In this state of mind took her one morning Miracles, with such good
fortune, it seemed that Providence had made preparation for the blissful satisfaction Marquise.
It happened that had not yet announced this conclusion with sighs and groans imminent of disaster
when decided tone Rosalia said

"Do you me sign a promissory note promising to return within a month the amount I give now?
Because the more friends, more formality. "You give me an interest of two percent per month?
Did you pay the six hundred added to those real?

... It is one thing friendship, my friend, and business ... I think you will not be offended ...».

I
must not add to the Telleria said yes to everything sincere and ardent
expressions.

Do not believe it would be like questioning the daylight.

"For these conditions will give you four thousand realitas" - said Rosalie with pretensions lender.
"

Those who have had the good fortune to see, really pray, pray in ecstatic
figuration, the open sky and his cohorts flying angels singing the
praises of the Lord, do not get insurance a face more radiant than
put Milagros happy to hear that announcement.

But ...

XXXII

There is no happiness that is not his but, and the happiness of the Marquise was that to complete
the sum was needed about five thousand ... Because yes, was awaiting a little story ... This
was irrelevant. With regard to interest both gave him two, four, six.

"This is material, daughter, and the more profit for you, the greater my satisfaction. " Rosalie hesitated
a while, but finally everything was settled to the satisfaction of both, and that same afternoon
expanded and signed the contract in the quartermaster, with all the necessary precautions to Isabelita
who was sniffing around, not aware of anything.

Milagros D. goodbye Francisco with the most cordial and sweet phrases
he had spoken in your life.

"Oh, what a woman is you! God has sent one of his favorite archangels. Do not complain you from
their evil, my friend, because that is worthless, and soon healed. Thank God, for those who
have next to people like Rosalie, and can receive calamities and to cope with value ...». Don Francisco
conmovidísimo held out his hand, hearing the frantic kisses smacking the Marquise gave the beloved
angel.

A different had obeyed the impulse to do what he did. First, the desire to please friend encouraged
her greatly. Secondly, the idea often expressed by Bringas, that she could have all had taken
possession of his intellect and breeding in his other ideas of dominance and authority. It was
necessary to show with facts, though they go through something the limits of prudence, which
had ceased to be a slave and he assumed his share of sovereignty in the distribution of marital
wealth. This is not only calmed his conscience but considering that he did have money to put
to revenue. The little-thing would have no reason to complain if the five thousand returned
to the box with the increase concerned.

Finally, the above might not have sufficed to identify it the reckless action of the loan,
if you do not count on the safe withdrawal in the extreme case Bringas discovered that it disapproved
and, if not count on the evening offerings earlier he had made friends with the house. Which,
taking it to the window, at the time of dusk to admire the show and gloom on the horizon, Tell
them that in no uncertain terms clear what the letter is copied:

"If for some reason, either because the cost of illness of this man, or because you do not While
your budget may even, if for some reason, I say, do you see yourself
involved in difficulties, has only to make me an indication, either
verbally or by means of a note, and Immediately I ... No, if this
has anything special ... Excuse me it manifests in a raw, brutal way,
in a way perhaps not very sensitive.

Such things can not be otherwise. This is from you to me, and the first thing you have to ignore
is Bringas ... Within the trust, friendship and pure honest, I can offer you I have left and you
take what you need without compromising the dignity of either. "

They followed this phrase of a more romantic than financial, in which the unfortunate Mr. expressed
once again experiencing the comfort his aching soul breathing the atmosphere that house, and discharging
the burden of his sorrows in the forgiving person holding and first
place in their hearts and their thoughts.

Rosalie left the window with upset head. Would have gladly been there a couple of hours listening
to those rhetorical, in its view, were as debt arrears of tribute that the world had to pay
with it.

Some days passed without noticing Bringas sensible move in condition. Golfín cruelly tormented him three
times a week, passing by the eyelids a wet brush silver nitrate, then another brush dipped in
a solution of common salt. Our friend see the stars with this, and needed all the strength of
his spirit and his entire dignity of man not to be bawling like a child. By applying compresses
cold water soothed her pain. Some time after the fire was on welfare, and it was felt better
and Golfín grandly praised. After ten or twelve days with this system, the wise eye ensured that all the
good lord in August would be much improved, and that September healing would be complete and
radical. The patient had such faith in the words of that distinguished
teacher, did not doubt the accuracy of the forecast.

After 20, cauterization, was done as copper sulfate, was less painful, and the patient could
be some times without a bandage on the darker room, but focus attention on anything.

The hyperbolic praise D. Francisco had to take her as Ridley's hand another order of ideas, and frowning,
scowling put. "When I think little story that I will make this Santa Lucia with his coat - he
said - I tremble meat.

He I heal the face, but I will draw an eye from his pocket ... Not that I spare, being of the precious
treasure of sight, not that I feel give all my savings, if need be; but it is, my dear, that this
marvel is going to leave without a shirt. "

While they stood to both, husband and wife, the renowned specialists have always into account,
their fee request, the fate of the patient. A rich, you open a potentate carcass, yes, but when
it comes to a sad employee or any person of humble position, humanizing and able to adapt to reality.
Rosalie knew of a family (those of precisely Reed), who had led Golfín little to the removal
of a cyst followed by a slow and difficult to cure. Sign in these ideas of distributive justice,
applied aching mankind, the great Thiers, when Ridley was present, never stopped stunned well
studied with lamentations of their fate. The good man is crying so much that very nearly was
like asking for a handout: "Oh, Mr. D. Theodore, my life will bless you for well I do, and more
will bless you for my children for me because those poor not have to eat if I have eyes to
see! ... Oh, D. Theodore of my soul ... cure me soon so you can get to work, because if this goes
on, goodbye family! ... We are in a horrible lag because of my illness.

In the Administration I have reduced the salary to half, and as I
do not see you soon ... What a future!

... And do not tell me. I do not care finish my days in a hospital, but these poor children
... these pieces of my heart ...».

XXXIII

Mal these ideas were consistent with that Ridley was the establishment of the position and gentlemen
Rosalia, as many times as he had seen the happy couple in theaters, on field trips and public
places, very well dressed one and another, as was also seen walking Rosalia Castellana drive
in the Marquise de Telleria of Fúcar or Santa Barbara and even thought he found it in a meeting
elegant, competing in galas and stiffness with people of higher rank, supposed to give value
to these social cues that D. Francis was a man of revenue, or at
least one of those officials who can remove policy of the juice in
vain want others to make the hard, dry work area.

But that Ridley was a little naive in worldly affairs, and as he had spent most of his life abroad,
knew bad our customs and live this specialty Madrid, which elsewhere would be called Mysteries, but
here are no secret.

As Bringas was entering box, warned his wife that weakened those abductions conjugal affection
so vividly attacked him in the dismal days of his illness. Observed her that such exaggerations
of love got along poorly with the hope of remedy, and when This had the advantage over the disappointment,
the child senile soboncito crying and regained the conditions real manly character. On the
spot, that's you be the lady the slave house and I turned out to be lip service, sick cuddle irrelevant.
Since my man could govern alone and spend hours without suffering, though deprived of sight,
Gasparini in his chair as he had entered as a whole and inspect hormiguilla to provide for and
learn about the innards of the house ... Rosalia, not to hear, let
him alone Paquito or Isabelita with most of the day, and claiming
occupations, occurred long encerronas in the Camon, where he again
began to operate Emilia amid a sea of ​​rags and tapes, whose choppy
waves came to the door.

But the economist, anxious to show his authority at every turn, come
mandábala his presence, and there, with gestures and looks not with
inexorable judge, made public display (this used to be Torres or some
other friend) domestic sovereignty.

"I smell a stew of sugar. What is this? The girl told me this morning was great package brought
from the store ... Why did not I noticed this ?...».

Rosalie answered awkwardly eat that day in the house Mr. Fish and the host should not be treated
as Candidita, who was given half bun dessert and two dried figs.

"But, my dear, you should be thrown into the fire a bushel of cinnamon ... Is the house stinks
... If I were good, would not these things well. Surely you've made custard for an army ... Do
not even think of anything. To ask the chef how he did such a thing, he'll have sent fact
... And let's see: What is the sound of scissors that I felt all
day today?

... Would I do that, and what brings you here the loafer tasks Emilia
... What is it, to the Marchesa dresses?

This story is much that we shop here a dressmaker for your honor ... And tell me, what clothes
you've done to children, was struck yesterday in the Plaza de Oriente? ".

- Drawing attention!

- Yes, calling attention ... by well-dressed ... Thankfully, that's why. Ridley told me this
morning: "I saw yesterday in the Prado to their children so elegant you ...». Look closely, So
elegant! Believe it, my daughter, this palabrilla known me very badly and I have traversed.
What we think of this good man, when you see that our children go
out there facts lambs a raffle, as the richest people?

... Think whatever nonsense ... I figured some of this myself, because yesterday, in a little while
I unravel, I saw the girl Autumn was wearing very thin stockings. Where did that come from? ...
And he has, Why not remove them to enter the house? ... What is this? What happens here? ...
From this we deal when I see clearly and without pain, that God will be soon.

With these Andromina, Rosalie was, it is easy to suppose, given to demons. He sought to appease
with subtle explanations of everything, but his genius did not come
fully achieve the desired Finally, because of suspicion of the extraordinary
good economist and large their knowledge of things and domestic arts.

A single lady unburdened her heart oppressed, speaking mutely a phrase angry, bitter: "Cursed
cominero, when did I prove that I deserve? ... Do not ever understand a woman like me has to
cost more than a housekeeper? ... Do not you understand, why, Nonito, tooth fairy? Well, I
can I will understand. "

Making plans of gradual emancipation, and studied sentences that was soon to express their final attempt
to break that bondage silly and ridiculous, but all came to their minds land when considering
the huge embarrassment that would befall her if the Bobito discovered the exploration made
in the false bottom of a treasure chest. Christ Father, how was going to get! ... Big lack was
her role to remove that portion of the marital fortune, because although conceived it all
his own, should not take it without consent of their own tooth fairy ... But more was his mistake
to believe that such a man could have jokes that nature. The apology on the occasion of the event
was conceptualized as reasonable seemed to him as vain and unbecoming
of a serious person.

The motives for which it was antojáronsele without any basis, and powerfully argued his conscience.
No, I could not wait her husband felt the need. Gave him a strong dismay at the thought that
he discovered, and was indispensable in place to replace the ill-fated number, six thousand pieces,
he had taken five thousand for a thousand to perform miracles and chandeliers and other trifles.

The
need for this return is imposed so his spirit, no longer thought of nothing thing. He had the strength
of the note and word of the Marquise. This reassured on 22, saying: "Everything is arranged. Can you
neglect. " But meanwhile, Rosalia Black went off, expecting every moment a disaster and run all
sorts of industries and machinations to avoid it. Until then Bobito persisted in the good habit
to give his wife the keys to her chest sacase of money.

But one afternoon antójasele back to their old ways and make the fateful Cajoncillo, and opens
and begins to fondle him that within had ... Oh, God, what my trance,
what time!

The color Pipaón it was and another was coming. Lela and terror was
impedíale make a decision.

"You ... always messing ... You ignore what it says D. Theodore ... What a man ... Dame the case
here. "

- Stand back, calamity - Bringas said defend his treasure with strong gesture.

He told the hundreds of gold one by one, hit two ounces, the old clock that had been his father,
a chain and medallion ancient ... As nothing was missing, there was no danger while standard
was not the double bottom ... Rosalie felt compelled to shout "burning the house!" or other similar
outrage, but did not dare because it was present Paquito. And flexible cominero hands stroked
the part where the top ceiling rose. Rosalia invoked all the saints, all the Virgin, the Blessed
Trinity, and still thinks it made a promise to Santa Rita if he pulled the sake of trouble. But
when D. Francisco got the nail in the wood huequecillo, was in his
mind a change of intention must have been a miracle ... Withdrawing
his fingers closed the casket.

Rosalia turned his soul the body, and his lungs breathed again.

He had been in a trice ... Surely it was wrong by the imagination of her husband's idea, not
even the suspicion of embezzlement, and although it was reviewing tickets just for fun, on this
occasion he did God knows why. Perhaps all those invocations that Ms. made the Saints were
well received, and an angel tooth fairy inspired the idea of ​​leaving for another time counting
their savings.

XXXIV

But Pipaón not had all along until they saw him save the casket, put it in your site carefully, as
it gets in the cradle a sleeping child, and turn the key to the drawer. Only then raised his mind
to heaven in thanksgiving for the favor he had just grant. But what did not happen that day
by special divine intervention could well be in another. Saints are not always the same mood.
In case the second time seemed to him to record the double bottom, ran the industrious lady a discretion
which, in apparently postponed the conflict as it came to replacing resolutely avert money.
Imagine, then, placed in the box a few pieces of paper the size of the bills, and if he could
find equal role in the quality of the pasta, so no different touch, cheating was easy, because
her husband was not to see it with your fingers ... Stood to work, and searched and examined how
much paper in the house.

Finally, in the table Paquito found one that it seemed very similar, the flexibility and consistency,
which employed Bank on their tickets.

He received this assurance after careful comparison work enters the various kinds of paper
and a real hundred tickets remained. To refine imitation, lacking give the patina of use,
that sweetness is sticky passage through many hands of tellers and collectors, by the lavish
and by the of the greedy. Rosalia submitted the pieces to a series of operations equivalent to
rattle of notes in public circulation.

- What are you looking here, girl? - Isabelita angrily said he was,
as usual, to put his nose at all -.

Go to accompany dad, who is alone.

Carrion shut himself in to avoid indiscretions, and there crumpled paper, leaving him a ball.
Then he stretched, ironed it with the palm of the hand, until the repeated squeeze gave the
desired flexibility. I missed that sticky skin that Tickets are true, but how to get this? It
seemed impossible, though his hands were well prepared for the object. Croquettes had done
in the kitchen, and had been careful not to wash their hands so they could print something on
paper of that soil to which no idealist, to my knowledge, has yet
sulky.

When he thought he had worked hard, wanted to test his work. Distrust Entrábale and said, "I
do not know what is this role that no other matches it. I think not cheating. " And his fingers
made a study of touch on the real and sham bill. "Suppose I do not see ... Suppose I put this
forward and I try to differentiate between legitimate the ... Oh, no doubt about it. ...». Immediately
known And a sigh is discouraged therefore, that very nearly had to
give up the hoax ... "No, no - thought then -.

When is in secret, the difference is more noticeable, but not being in the secret ... I'll put in
the double bottom, and God will. See beyond. "

On the evening of that day, when Brinker took the casket, the lady had her papers prepared to
make them act appropriately in case the cominero opened the double bottom. But not open it.
Then Rosalie, to prevent the hassle of going to the table, took off from the Cajoncillo hands,
and in the short time that he use to put in place, he knew enter the vile papers that, when pass this
magazine, should respond by who had gone elsewhere. Of course, that workaround was very dangerous,
and suited to accelerate the final demand for payment of the loan Milagros.

The next day was July 25, the day of Santiago, pulled the Heat in a horrible manner. Bringas
was in shirtsleeves and Rosalie, with a very light muslin robe, never stopped fanning, cursing at every
moment of the climate of Madrid and that exposure to West Bringas had chosen for your home.
Cominero And had the nerve to say that liked the heat, which was very healthy and that he pitied
the fools that were out! That Santiago day of the great economist
had announced solemnly and firmly to all family would not go to bathroom,
which was Rosalia more sulfur than the heat. Prisoner in Madrid during
the dog days, when all relationships had migrated! The upper town
palate was almost deserted. The Queen had gone to Lequeitio, and she
Dona Tula Dona Antonia, the largest and most splendid part of the
high bondage. Miracles and Mr. Fish were also preparing for the journey.
It would, therefore, the poor girl alone, without further friendship
Torres, Candida and the clerks and little people who lived on the
third floor ... Her excitement was such that all day did not say a
quiet word and all that mouth of his August out were harsh, unpleasant,
threatening. Paquito was lying on a mat reading novels and newspapers.

"Thought there was something wrong with the blooming thing," said the Sergeant, "but couldn't
turn it up, as it hasn't got a screw, without which these old-fashioned colza oils never were
no good. Hullo! Doctor, there goes yours," and as he spoke, go it did.

"The wicks!" exclaimed Maqueda, "we forgot to bring new wicks, and without them of what use
is oil? Come, be swift; we are still far from the mouth of this cave, where none except the
high priests will dare to seek us," and, taking Oliver by the hand, she began to run, leaving
us two to follow as best we could.

"Steady, Doctor," said Quick, "steady. In the presence of disaster comrades should always stick
together, as it says in the Red-book presented by the crown to warrant officers, but paid for
out of their deferred allowance. Take my arm, Doctor. Ah! I thought so, the more haste the
less speed. Look there," and he pointed to the flying shapes ahead, now a long way off, and
with only one lamp between them.

Next instant Maqueda turned round holding up this remaining lamp and called to us. I saw the
faint light gleam upon her beautiful face and glitter down the silver ornaments of her dress.
Very wild and strange she looked in that huge vault, seen thus for a single moment, then seen
no more, for presently where the flame had been was but a red spark, and then nothing at all.

"Stop still till we come back to you," cried Oliver, "and shout at intervals."

"Yes, sir," said Quick, and instantly let off a fearful yell, which echoed backward and forward
across the vault till I was quite bewildered.

"All right, coming," answered Oliver, and his voice sounded so far to the left that Quick thought
it wise to yell again.

To cut a long story short, we next heard him on our right and then behind us.

"Can't trust sounds here, sir, echoes are too uncertain," said the Sergeant; "but come on,
I think I've placed them now," and calling to them not to move, we headed in what we were sure
was the right direction.

The end of that adventure was that presently I tripped up over a skeleton and found myself
lying half stunned amidst trays of treasure, affectionately clasping a skull under the impression
that it was Quick's boot.

He hauled me up again somehow, and, as we did not know what to do, we sat down amidst the dead
and listened. By now the others were apparently so far off that the sound of Oliver's calling
only reached us in faint, mysterious notes that came from we knew not whence.

"As, like idiots, we started in such a hurry that we forgot to bring any matches with us, there
is nothing to be done, except wait," I said. "No doubt in due course those Abati will get over
their fear of ghosts and come to look for us."

"Wish I could do the same, sir. I didn't mind those deaders in the light, but the dark's a
different matter. Can't you hear them rattling their shanks and talking all round us?"

"Certainly I do hear something," I answered, "but I think it must be the echo of our own voices." Oh,
girls! ... What scene this morning! Believe, have spent a vat of cologne ... I wanted to help a little,
because it seemed to meet something that our Lord commands us Jesus Christ. If not for me, not
just scrubbing all morning ... Speaking truthfully, if I were poor and I bring to this ceremony
was to acknowledge not all, because frankly, passing the shock and discomfort of being so washed, not
offset by what they provide.

The funny chickens, whose tender age had much value the spiritual and imaginative, not understand
these practical reasons the experienced Dona Candida, and all were
own, nice and appropriate to double majesty of Religion and the Throne
...

Isabelita Bringas was a sickly child, weak, spirit, and watched
it predispositions epilepsy.

His sleep was often disturbed by distressing nightmares, followed by vomiting and seizures, and sometimes
lacking this symptom, the bad early manifested a more alarming. He would like lela and took too
long to understand things, completely missing Infant liveliness. It could not be nagging, and
at school the teacher had orders not impose any punishment or require her application and work.
If during the day witnessed something to excite their sensitivity or had cases before her pitiful,
at night reproduced at all in his troubled sleep. This is compounded when excess in food or by
poor condition of this, the stomach's digestive work of the poor child was over With few forces.
That Thursday, Dona Tula splendidly fed her friends. The girl was docked Bringas a bowl of
milk, which he liked, but it dearly paid the poor, as did a quarter-hour that had been lying when
he was thrust fever and delirium, and began to look and feel with horrible blunders all incidents,
people and things of that day so busy that had so much fun. Repeated games the terrace, saw
the girls all, greatly disfigured, and Candida as a major black pastor who guarded the flock
again attended the ceremony of food poor, peering through a hole in the skylight, and animated
figures of the roof, removing out their paws to scare the curious ... Then he heard playing real
progress. Was that Queen ascended to the terrace? No, appeared through the door of the ladies
step mom, grabbed Pez's arm, and his dad giving him the Marquise de Telleria. What came dragging
pretty those queues that certainly had more than one league! ... And they, how well packaged
and what stiff! ... Came to rest and take refreshment at Dona Tula, to accompany more late
to the whole Court Lady and the visit of Tabernacles ... For all the gates Palacio top of several
liveries appeared much blue and red cloth, much gold braid and silver, tricorn infinite ... Raving
again, he saw the shining city and glazed a thousand colorful. Surely it was a city of dolls,
but what a doll! ... By various sides white wigs out, and no door opened into the recesses of
the second floor without give way to a beautiful wax figure, tow or porcelain, and all ran down
the corridors shouting "it's time ...». Crossed on the stairs coming up with gallon gallon
down ... All the dolls were in a hurry. In this he forgot one thing, one another, a buckle,
a pen, a lanyard. Some called their women so that they achieve something, and all repeated,
"when ...!». After swirling down the main staircase. In the courtyard, the yeomen writhed with
coachmen and footmen, and was like a big pot that boiled human members of many colors, twisting
to the action of heat ... His mom and dad came back again ... Well, they were hermosotes! But
much nicer would your dad when hiciese Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. King was hard at it, and
had promised to give him a uniform with all the accessories of the sword, spurs and more.
Guapín What would his father with his white coat, all white! ... At this point, the poor she
was completely soaked his being on an idea of ​​whiteness, at the same time an obstruction horrible
embarrassed, as if things reproducing his brain, dolls and palace were contained within his
tiny stomach. With agonizing convulsions threw it all out and contained the rave, and felt
a relief ...! His mother had jumped from the bed to go to help her. Isabelita clearly heard,
and awakened, the loving voice saying: "It's over, darling, that's nothing. "

IX

The beauty of miracles had not yet reached the twilight in which we featured in the sad story of
his son for years 75 to 78, but moved away and enough of the meridian of life. The restoration
procedure used with rare skill still not denounced themselves same as those plasters marred by
the poor condition of the building to which they apply.

The time defending his wit, his elegance, his refined taste in clothing
gear and sympathy inspire those who knew not trying to close.

All these qualities equally subjugated the spirit of Rosalía Bringas, but what stood out including
the most tyrannical was the exquisite taste in fashion rags. This gift for her friend was like
the sun shining Bringas which could not face watching to face without dazzling. Because in
that estimate had the authority of the Marchioness in these treaties,
which did not dare have an opinion that was not a true reflection
of the August proclaimed by her.

All doubts about a color or form of dress were cut with a word of Miracles. What is said was already
legal body for any question that occurs later, as not only authorizing legislation but his
teaching by example, dressing in a spotless, the de Bringas, which at this time in our history
was passionate greatly by the dresses, rose to Milagros in his soul a veritable altar. Garcia's
widow Grande Rosalie captivated with its prestigious historical figure. Respetábala this as
the gods of a dead religion, but Milagros had it in the predicament of living dogmas and the
gods in power. Nobody in the world, even Bringas, was on the ascendant Pipaón as large as Miracles.
The woman, authoritarian and somewhat rude to peers and lower became timid in the presence of his
idol, who was also his teacher.

Agustin Caballero freebies and assignment of all the finery she had bought for wedding, Rosalie
awoke the passion of the dress. His former modesty that most had virtue of necessity, was subjected
to a test that did not come out victorious. In another time, the wisdom of Thiers was able to curb
the appetite of luxury, making us believe all that did not exist when the only positive in this was
the inability to satisfy them.

It is the primary event in human history and the eternal case, the case where order of fragility.
While there was no evidence the fruit forbidden by God that household, all going well. But
the apple was bitten, but the devil take the form of snake here ruin or other animal, and goodbye
my modesty. After having released so many beautiful costumes, how resigned to return to the
old rags never change no longer fashionable? This could not be. He had been blessed Augustine, generously
and without hesitation, the corrupter his cousin, had been the serpent in good faith that got
him in the head the most dangerous vanities that can hollow out the brain of a woman. The gifts
were the fruit whose sweetness took his innocence, and because of them an angel with a sword of satin
that I threw her paradise on your Bringas had it so secure. Nothing, nothing ... hard to believe
that what Dona Eva is so remote. Say what you will, had to spend yesterday, as it is for chilly
and throbbing that event. Appear to have brought the papers last night.

As his wife disapproved Bringas several dresses and expenses in finery and ornaments, she affected
to despise the news, but bells were always covered by reforms rags combining and interpreting
more or less freely what brought the figurines. When Milagros was going to spend time with her,
if Bringas was in the office, chatting at home, venting each in his way, the passion that dominated
them both.

X

But if the holy man was in his hollow window, plunged into the microcosm of the work hair, the ladies
were kept in the Carrion, and there were dispatched to their liking
without witnesses.

Rosalie pulled the dresser drawers gently to make noise, drew skirts,
bodies pending reform, pieces of cloth cut or cut, strips of velvet
and silk, and putting it all on a sofa, on chairs, trunks or soil
if necessary, starting a feverish advice on what should be done to
achieve the best and most striking effect in of distinction.

These councils had no end, and if you take minutes of them offer an encyclopedic record of this
curious womanly passion in the world does more damage that revolutions. The two spoke quietly so
as not found out Bringas, and was its rapid whisper, drowned, vehement, sometimes indicating indecision
and surprise, sometimes enthusiasm of a happy thought. French words seeking to qualify this
conference is taking off the fabric of our language, but even if it stuck with pins, I have
to hold for the exotic language rags castiza not lose its brilliance.

Looking .--=( ROSALIA a fashion plate.) = To tell the truth, I do not understand this. I do
not know how have to unite behind the coat tails of French guard.

MIRACLES .--=( With a stunning, which gradually overcomes his great trial.) = Let aside figurines.
Slavishly follow leads to the affected and loud. Begin by the choice of fabric. Do you choose
you the hint of white muslin scarf? Then the coat can not be adopted.

ROSALIA .--=( With determination.) = No; choose resolutely gros icing,
ash color pink.

Nephew told me that I will return the envelope. The icing gros puts me to twenty-four real.

Meditating .--=( MIRACLES.) = Good, because if you look at the achievements icing, I would skirt
adorned four leaflets about four inches, let's see?, no, five or
six, putting him on the edge a narrow bias emerging green glaze ...
Huh?

ROSALIA .--=( contemplating on ecstasy what is still not an abstraction.)
= Very good ... And the body?

MIRACLES .--=( Taking a half-body modeling and working with their
hands on the fabric lapels and skirts.) = The French guard coat will
open in heart, with flaps, and closes on the side of the stem with
three or four green buttons ... here.

The skirts ... Do you understand me?, Open in front ... well ... showing the liner, which
is green as the flap, and join those laps back with recessed ...
= (The Queen, throwing back her hands, cups her own dress in that
part prominentísima, where returns have to meet of the coat-tails.)
= Is whole you ... It is cute.

I said that the lining This jacket is green and carries gros on the verge of a ruche of ribbon
around the same as the flyers ... How are you? Oh, do not forget that this suit is needed
t well plegadita batiste, Valenciennes lace folded in the neck ... holgaditos fists, holgaditos;
to fall on the wrists.

ROSALIA .-- Oh ... t I have two or three classes ...

MIRACLES .-- I've seen that has come from Paris to San Salomó Pilar food to suit and theater
... = (With aesthetic emotion, rolling his eyes.) = What costume! Divine Thing ...!

ROSALIA .--=( With eager interest.) = What is it?

MIRACLES .-- pink satin skirt, touching the floor, adorned with a
lace-covered steering wheel.

How very chic! On it are eight black velvet ribbons.

ROSALIA .-- And puffs?

MIRACLES .-- Four orders. Then, on the skirt fits waist = (Uniting word Descriptive mime hands in
their own size.) = do you understand? ... fits the Cutting a garment waist ... In doing this,
and falls around here, forming a caught behind a big pouf. = (With enthusiasm.) = How original!
Caught below the tail largely extend the same studs in the skirt, but what a well thought out!
It is sublime! ... See you ... well ... here ... in such a way ... corresponding with them
only for a retroussé ... Is means that the mantle has a flap whose
peaks are here ... under the pouf ... Do you understand you, dear?

ROSALIA .--=( astounded.) = Yes ..

I understand ... I see ... Will be precious ...

MIRACLES .--=( superbly with a gesture expressing the successful placement of what he describes.)
= Large loop on puffs of satin ... It's a wonderful effect.

ROSALIA .--=( assimilating everything you hear.) = "And the body?

MIRACLES .-- Very low, with the shoulder straps fasten through ties
... But beware: these ties have not fallen ... The shirt is a novelty
...!, studs silk ribbons TIGHT past velvet dots.

Long sleeves ...

Removing and putting .--=( ROSALIA fabrics and pieces for a better comparison.) = I have an idea
for this dress shirt. If I choose to end the ash color pink ... = (Stopping pensive.) = me decide
what I'm clumsy! The figurine ... = (Collecting all in shock and quickly.) = I think I feel Bringas.
They are an ordeal these openly ...

MIRACLES .--=( helping to keep all hastily.) = Yes, I feel his little cough. Oh, friend, your
husband seems to Customs, so that is pursuing the rags ... Hide contraband.

Rosalia were happy times for those passing through the Marquise discussing
the form and manner to fix his clothes.

But the greatest joy it was to accompany her friend to stores though sorrows not going to buy
many good things he saw. Weather they would not feel it. Milagros was made to show everything
in the store, stirring, comparing; the sudden passing whim to cold disdain; haggling, and
concluded by acquiring different things cargábanle the amount in your account. Rosalia, if
something bought, after much thought and cruising around money, paid always tocateja. Their purchases
were generally not that patchwork, outdated or fabric pieces to make matches with the good she was
at home, and recast the old giving sheen and representation of novelty.

But one day he saw at the home of a mantle Sobrino Hermanos ... What piece, what apple of Eve! The
passion of the collector in the presence of a rare specimen, the enthusiasm of the hunter
to view of a brave and stout res give us no idea of ​​this great fondness wipe in certain
women. Rosalia you were the eyes behind the superb garment, when the kind trade-dependent taught
an assortment of them, piling on the counter as if they were empty bags. Timidly asked the price but
were afraid to haggle. The enormity terrified cost almost as much as it seduced splendid piece, in
which the velvet bright cloth and trimmings combined pilgrimage. At home he could not remove
imagination, all day and all night, the happy mantle, and thereby snatched his blood burning
desire, which feared an erysipelas ataquillo if not sated. Again Milagros to stores the next
day, with no intention of entering the Sobrino, where temptation was great, but the Devil arranged
for them to be, and here displayed again on the counter white boxes,
those glossy cardboard chests which they are filed women's dreams.

The clerk took them out one by one, forming black stack. The preferred appeared with its elegant
shape and luxurious trimmings, in which black lightning bead, trembling in plush, confirmed
all that the poets have said mantle night.

Rosalie had to feel cold in the chest, burning in the temples, and their shoulders Nerves suggested
so true to the sense of touch and weight of the mat, he believed
and carry on.

- Buy it you ... by God! - Milagros said her friend
in a manner so suggestive that Sobrino dependent and it could not
but support a concept as sensible.

Why what is to be deprived of an article that falls so well?

And when the shopkeepers moved away a bit in the direction of another group of parishioners, the
Marchioness catechesis followed her friend to this whisper

- Do
not deprive you buy if you like ... and indeed is very cheap ... Just
come you with me, that does not need to pay now.

I have here a lot of credit. No you will pass the bill until within a few months, into the
summer, and perhaps year-end.

The long term idea was hesitant to Rosalia, tilting all its spirit-side Purchase ... Actually,
1700 was not exorbitant real for her and easier it would gather,
if you will light selling some things that no longer wanted to be,
if in addition economized, sparing with patience and perseverance
the daily expenditure of the house.

The worst thing was that Bringas was not to authorize such a considerable expense which was not
absolutely necessary.

Other times she had made herself his polkas and shawls, borrowing one for the model. Buying the tackle
on the rise in Santa Cruz, joining pieces, hiding patches, obtained satisfactory results through
hard work and little money. But how could compare the pobreterías made for her with that brilliant
model come from Paris? ... Bringas not allow luxury that certainly had to look Asian, and that
the thing happened, it was necessary fool ... No, no, not determined.

The fact was serious, and he wasted break of so abrupt a sick family
traditions.

But the mat was so beautiful ...! The Paris had made for her ... Was determined, yes or no?

XI

Was determined, yes, and to explain the possession of so magnificent gala, had to appeal to
recursillo, already spent a bit of the bounty of His Majesty. Coincidences here. Hallab Real
Rosalía in the House at the time uncovering some boxes just arrived from Paris. The Queen tried
on a yoke that came close, a body that was wide. The royal dressmaker there present, made comments
on how to fix those items. Then, a box lined with chintz beautiful inside and out ... a fabric
that seemed satinet ... took three shawls. One of them fell beautifully to His Majesty, the other two
no. "Get this, Rosaliíta ... What? Or painted. " In effect, nor was far better. "Oh, good,
good! ... Let's see, turn ... You know me I do not know how to take it off? No, no ...». take
it off "But Madam, for God's sake ...». "No, leave it.

It's yours by right of conquest. It you have a body ...! Use it in my name, and no more about
it. " Thus so graceful regaled her friends the gracious sovereign ... Came close to my good Thiers
to tears hearing the well-told story.

If I'm not mistaken, the swallowing of this great ball by the width of D. Tragadero Francisco
came to pass in April. Rosalia lay quiet on the idea of ​​remote payment, believing that they can collect
the amount in a couple of months, back in the early days of May ... Wham, your account. By then
it was the marriage of the Infanta Isabel, and was the very entertaining Pipaón without remember
their commitment and Nephew account. He stood motionless upon receipt, and looked with stunned
eyes the paper without being able to get by with a response or comment
anyone because they think that money would think was impossible ...
He had never been in a trance same, because Brinker had the system
not to buy anything without the money up front.

Finally, stuttering, said the condemned man that she would pay for it "tomorrow ... no, the other
day, in short, one of these days. "

Fortunately, Bringas was not home. Two or three days Rosalie lived in great uncertainty. Every
time the bell sounded, it seemed they came again with that man happy the nasty little piece of
paper ... If Bringas found out ...! Thinking this, his anxiety was real terror, and began to devise
a way out of step. A few days before had almost half the money, but confident that the bill
would not, Tell them spent on little things for children. He did not like herself composed, but
was well dress up vanity their children to worthy alternative to the children of other families
in the city. In these bells and whistles, namely a cuellitos, an array of hat, blue socks, gloves
incarnate, a sailor's cap that read lyrics from another Numancia, and two leather belts it had gone
the previous week over six hundred real, which could not have meet in your pocket without
replacement during a long season, the principle of skirt steak for
a plate of brains high, that turned one day every other alternating
with tortillas marinade.

The tonnage of the box did not produce more than one hundred twelve reals, and the store had
a little trick that Bringas had no news. What to do, Lord? Money should be sought at all costs.
But where, how? Made discreet overtures to Milan, but the Marquise was affected that day so
persistent intellectual deafness did not understand anything. Distractions and inconsistencies
of Telleria could be translated as: "dear friend, you call another door. " What door?, What the
candida? Intentolo Rosalia, finding in the illustrious widow All the best, but damn did happen
to her manager had not brought even the collection of houses ... Then he had gotten into some
repair costs ... In short, there was no salvation in that quarter. After Providence came across
to Rosalia via sighed relief that Gonzalo Torres constant friend
of the family, the which so often visited them at the Palace and at
home in the Costanilla.

Torres used to handle outside money, and sometimes possessed no small amount of which drew some benefit
during the brief possession of them. Taking advantage of the absence her husband, Rosalie declarole
sincerity so strongly as her trouble and the good Gonzalo reassured at the time. What soon
became the roses, to speak to the poetic, the haggard lady's face! ... Fortunately, Torres was in
possession of an amount that was Mompous and Bruil, but none could delay care delivery month.
If undertook Rosalia to repay the thousand and seven hundred reais in the period of thirty
days, no problem had facilitators. Instead, he was extremely happy ... A month!, What happiness!
Ni much time she needed to collect the amount, either with relentless squeezing savings the regular
budget, or selling some items that had already gone out of fashion
... Ah, Careful ... Bringas absolute secret ...

Secure and able to
meet Sobrino Hermanos, his conscience was discharged weighing horrible.

No longer would cut the breath in fear that the unfortunate collector appeared Store when Bringas
was in the house. Regained his appetite was lost and his nerves were calmed. Because, the truth,
he found himself in those days under the action of a spasmodic disorder simulated a severe anxiety, and
it was hard to prevent her husband call the family doctor.

He was getting the shawl to go to pay (as Torres brought the money that same later), he entered
Milan. What beauty came from and what stylish! ... "Look here ... I have taken this blue ribbon
to the bodice. Tone is very new and with a green iridescent ... Do you see you like change?
... Rest a while and then we will go together. I bring my car ... Ah!
Only they seemed almost endless, and before we reached our goal I calculated that we must have
descended quite twelve hundred feet into the bowels of the rock. At length, when I was almost
tired out and Maqueda was so breathless that she was obliged to lean on Oliver, dragging me
behind her like a dog on a string, of a sudden we saw a glimmer of daylight that crept into
the tunnel through a small hole. By the mouth of yet another pit or shaft, we found Shadrach
and the others waiting for us. Saluting, he said that we must unrope, leave our lamps behind,
and follow him. Oliver asked him whither this last shaft led.

"To a still lower level, lord," he answered, "but one which you will scarcely care to explore,
since it ends in the great pit where the Fung keep their sacred lions."

"Indeed," said Oliver, much interested for reasons of his own, and he glanced at Quick, who
nodded his head and whistled.

Then we all followed Shadrach to find ourselves presently upon a plateau about the size of
a racquet court which, either by nature or by the hand of man, had been recessed into the face
of that gigantic cliff. Going to the edge of this plateau, whereon grew many tree-ferns and
some thick green bushes that would have made us invisible from below even had there been any
one to see us, we saw that the sheer precipice ran down beneath for several hundred feet. Of
these yawning depths, however, we did not at the moment make out much, partly because they
were plunged in shadow and partly for another reason.

Rising out of the gulf below was what we took at first to be a rounded hill of black rock,
oblong in shape, from which projected a gigantic shaft of stone ending in a kind of fretted
bush that alone was of the size of a cottage. The point of this bush-like rock was exactly
opposite the little plateau on to which we had emerged and distant from it not more than thirty,
or at most, forty feet.

"What is that?" asked Maqueda, of Shadrach, pointing in front of her, as she handed back to
one of the Mountaineers a cup from which she had been drinking water.

"That, O Walda Nagasta," he answered, "is nothing else than the back of the mighty idol of
the Fung, which is shaped like a lion. The great shaft of rock with the bush at the end of
it is the tail of the lion. Doubtless this platform on which we stand is a place whence the
old priests, when they owned Mur as well as the land of the Fung, used to hide themselves to
watch whatever it was they wanted to see. Look," and he pointed to certain grooves in the face
of the rock, "I think that here there was once a bridge which could be let down at will on
to the tail of the lion-god, though long ago it has rotted away. Yet ere now I have travelled
this road without it."

We stared at him astonished, and in the silence that followed I heard Maqueda whisper to Oliver:

"Perhaps that is how he whom we call Cat escaped from the Fung; or perhaps that is how he communicates
with them as a spy."

"Or perhaps he is a liar, my Lady," interrupted Quick, who had also overheard their talk, a
solution which, I confess, commended itself to me.

"Why have you brought us here?" asked Maqueda presently.

"Did I not tell you in Mur, Lady--to rescue Black Windows? Listen, now, it is the custom of
the Fung to allow those who are imprisoned within the idol to walk unguarded upon its back
at dawn and sunset. At least, this is their custom with Black Windows--ask me not how I know
it; this is truth, I swear it on my life, which is at stake. Now this is my plan. We have with
us a ladder which will reach from where we stand to the tail of the idol. Should the foreign
lord appear upon the back of the god, which, if he still lives, as I believe he does, he is
almost sure to do at sundown, as a man who dwells in the dark all day will love the light and
air when he can get them, then some of us must cross and bring him back with us. Perhaps it
had best be you, my lord Orme, since if I went alone, or even with these men, after what is
past Black Windows might not altogether trust me."

"Fool," broke in Maqueda, "how can a man do such a thing?"

"O Lady, it is not so difficult as it looks. A few steps across the gulf, and then a hundred
feet or so along the tail of the lion which is flat on the top and so broad that one may run
down it if careful to follow the curves, that is on a still day--nothing more. But, of course,
if the Lord Orme is afraid, which I did not think who have heard so much of his courage----"
and the rogue shrugged his shoulders and paused.

"Afraid, fellow," said Oliver, "well, I am not ashamed to be afraid of such a journey. Yet
if there is need I will make it, though not before I see my brother alone yonder on the rock,
since all this may be but a trick of yours to deliver me to the Fung, among whom I know that
you have friends."

"It is madness; you shall not go," said Maqueda. "You will fall and be dashed to pieces. I
say that you shall not go."

"Why should he not go, my niece?" interrupted Joshua. "Shadrach is right; we have heard much
of the courage of this Gentile. Now let us see him do something."

She turned on the Prince like a tiger.

"Very good, my uncle, then you shall go with him. Surely one of the ancient blood of the Abati
will not shirk from what a 'Gentile' dares."

On hearing this Joshua relapsed into silence, and I have no clear memory of what he did or
said in connection with the rest of that thrilling scene.

Now followed a pause in the midst of which Oliver sat down and began to take off his boots.

"Why do you undress yourself, friend?" asked Maqueda nervously.

"Because, Lady," he answered, "if I have to walk yonder road it is safer to do so in my stockings.
Have no fear," he added gently, "from boyhood I have been accustomed to such feats, and when
I served in my country's army it was my pleasure to give instruction in them, although it is
true that this one surpasses all that ever I attempted."

"Still I do fear," she said.

Meanwhile Quick had sat down and begun to take off his boots.

"What are you doing, Sergeant?" I asked.

"Getting ready to accompany the Captain upon forlorn hope, Doctor."

"Nonsense," I said, "you are too old for the game, Sergeant. If any one goes, I should, seeing
that I believe my son is over there, but I can't try it, as I know my head would give out,
and I should fall in a second, which would only upset everybody."

"Of course," broke in Oliver, who had overheard us, "I'm in command here, and my orders are
that neither of you shall come. Remember, Sergeant, that if anything happens to me it is your
business to take over the stores and use them if necessary, which you alone can do. Now go
and see to the preparations, and find out the plan of campaign, for I want to rest and keep
quiet. I daresay the whole thing is humbug, and we shall see nothing of the Professor; still,
one may as well be prepared."

So Quick and I went to superintend the lashing of two of the light ladders together and the
securing of some planks which we had brought with us upon the top of the rungs, so as to make
these ladders easy to walk on. I asked who would be of the party besides Shadrach and Orme,
and was told no one, as all were afraid. Ultimately, however, a man named Japhet, one of the
Mountaineers, volunteered upon being promised a grant of land from the Child of Kings herself,
which grant she proclaimed before them all was to be given to his relatives in the event of
his death.

At length everything was ready, and there came another spell of silence, for the nerves of
all of us were so strained that we did not seem able to talk. It was broken by a sound of sudden
and terrible roaring that arose from the gulf beneath.

"It is the hour of the feeding of the sacred lions which the Fung keep in the pit about the
base of the idol," explained Shadrach. Then he added, "Unless he should be rescued, I believe
that Black Windows will be given to the lions to-night, which is that of full moon and a festival
of Harmac, though maybe he will be kept till the next full moon when all the Fung come up to
worship."

This information did not tend to raise anyone's spirits, although Quick, who always tried to
be cheerful, remarked that it was probably false.

The shadows began to gather in the Valley of Harmac, whereby we knew that the sun was setting
behind the mountains. Indeed, had it not been for a clear and curious glow reflected from the
eastern sky, the gulf would have plunged us in gloom. Presently, far away upon a rise of rock
which we knew must be the sphinx head of the huge idol, a little figure appeared outlined against
the sky, and there began to sing. The moment that I heard the distant voice I went near to
fainting, and indeed should have fallen had not Quick caught me.

"What is it, Adams?" asked Oliver, looking up from where he and Maqueda sat whispering to each
other while the fat Joshua glowered at them in the background. "Has Higgs appeared?"

"No," I answered, "but, thank God, my son still lives. That is his voice. Oh! if you can, save
him, too."

Now there was much suppressed excitement, and some one thrust a pair of field-glasses into
my hand, but either they were wrongly set or the state of my nerves would not allow me to see
through them. So Quick took them and reported.

"Tall, slim figure wearing a white robe, but at the distance in this light can't make out the
face. One might hail him, perhaps, only it would give us away. Ah! the hymn is done and he's
gone; seemed to jump into a hole in the rock, which shows that he's all right, anyway, or he
couldn't jump. So cheer up, Doctor, for you have much to be thankful for."

"Yes," I repeated after him, "much to be thankful for, but still I would that I had more after
all these years to search. To think that I should be so close to him and he know nothing of it."

After the ceasing of the song and the departure of my son, there appeared upon the back of
the idol three Fung warriors, fine fellows clad in long robes and armed with spears, and behind
them a trumpeter who carried a horn or hollowed elephant's tusk. These men marched up and down
the length of the platform from the rise of the neck to the root of the tail, apparently to
make an inspection. Having found nothing, for, of course, they could not see us hidden behind
the bushes on our little plateau, of which no doubt they did not even know the existence, and
much less that it was connected with the mountain plain of Mur, the trumpeter blew a shrill
blast upon his horn, and before the echoes of it had died away, vanished with his companions.

"Sunset tour of inspection. Seen the same kind of thing as at Gib.," said the Sergeant. "Oh!
by Jingo! Pussy isn't lying after all--there he is," and he pointed to a figure that rose suddenly
out of the black stone of the idol's back just as the guards had done.

It was Higgs, Higgs without a doubt; Higgs wearing his battered sun-helmet and his dark spectacles;
Higgs smoking his big meerschaum pipe, and engaged in making notes in a pocket-book as calmly
as though he sat before a new object in the British Museum.

I gasped with astonishment, for somehow I had never expected that we should really see him,
but Orme, rising very quietly from his seat beside Maqueda, only said:

"Yes, that's the old fellow right enough. Well, now for it. You, Shadrach, run out your ladder
and cross first that I may be sure you play no trick."

"Nay," broke in Maqueda, "this dog shall not go, for never would he return from his friends
the Fung. Man," she said, addressing Japhet, the Mountaineer to whom she had promised land,
"go you over first and hold the end of the ladder while this lord crosses. If he returns safe
your reward is doubled."

Japhet saluted, the ladder was run out and its end set upon the roughnesses in the rock that
represented the hair of the sphinx's tail. The Mountaineer paused a moment with hands and face
uplifted; evidently he was praying. Then bidding his companions hold the hither end of the
ladder, and having first tested it with his foot and found that it hung firm, calmly he walked
across, being a brave fellow, and presently was seen seated on the opposing mass of rock.

Now came Oliver's turn. He nodded to Maqueda, who went white as a sheet, muttering some words
to her that did not reach me. Then he turned and shook my hand.

"If you can, save my son also," I whispered.

"I'll do my best if I can get hold of him," he answered. "Sergeant, if anything happens to
me you know your duty."

"I'll try and follow your example, Captain, under all circumstances, though that will be hard,"
replied Quick in a rather shaky voice.

Oliver stepped out on the ladder. I reckoned that twelve or fourteen short paces would take
him across, and the first half of these he accomplished with quiet certainty. When he was in
the exact middle of the passage, however, the end of one of the uprights of the ladder at the
farther side slipped a little, notwithstanding the efforts of Japhet to keep it straight, with
the result that the plank bound on the rungs lost its level, sinking an inch or so to the right,
and nearly causing Oliver to fall from it into the gulf. He wavered like a wind-shaken reed,
attempted to step forward, hesitated, stopped, and slowly sank on to his hands and knees.

"Ah!" panted Maqueda.

"The Gentile has lost his head," began Joshua in a voice full of the triumph that he could
not hide. "He--will----"

Joshua got no further, for Quick, turning, threatened him savagely with his fist, saying in
English:

"Stow your jaw if you don't want to follow him, you swine," whereon Joshua, who understood
the gesture, if not the words, relapsed into silence.

Now the Mountaineer on the farther side spoke, saying:

"Have no fear, the ladder is safe."

For a moment Oliver remained in his crouching posture on the board, which was all that separated
him from an awful death in the gulf beneath. Next, while we watched, agonized, he rose to his
feet again, and with perfect calmness walked across to its other end.

"Well done our side!" said Quick, addressing Joshua, "why don't your Royal Highness cheer?
No, you leave that knife alone, or presently there'll be a hog the less in this world," and
stooping down he relieved the Prince of the weapon which he was fingering with his round eyes
fixed upon the Sergeant.

Maqueda, who had noted all, now interfered.

"My uncle," she said, "brave men are risking their lives yonder while we sit in safety. Be
silent and cease from quarrelling, I pray you."

Next moment we had forgotten all about Joshua, being utterly absorbed in watching the drama
in progress upon the farther side of the gulf. After a slight pause to recover his nerve or
breath, Orme rose, and preceded by Japhet, climbed up the bush-like rock till he reached the
shaft of the sphinx's tail. Here he turned and waved his hand to us, then following the Mountaineer,
walked, apparently with the utmost confidence, along the curves of the tail to where it sprang
from the body of the idol. At this spot there was a little difficulty in climbing over the
smooth slope of rock on to the broad terrace-like back. Soon, however, they surmounted it,
and vanishing for a few seconds into the hollow of the loins, which, of course, was a good
many feet deep, re-appeared moving toward the shoulders. Between these we could see Higgs standing
with his back toward us, utterly unconscious of all that was passing behind him.

Passing Japhet, Oliver walked up to the Professor and touched him on the arm. Higgs turned,
stared at the pair for a moment, and then, in his astonishment, or so we guessed, sat down
plump upon the rock. They pulled him to his feet, Orme pointing to the cliff behind, and evidently
explaining the situation and what must be done. Then followed a short and animated talk. Through
the glasses we could even see Higgs shaking his head. He told them something, they came to
a determination, for now he turned, stepped forward a pace or two, and vanished, as I learnt
afterwards, to fetch my son, without whom he would not try to escape.

A while went by; it seemed an age, but really was under a minute. We heard the sound of shouts.
Higgs's white helmet reappeared, and then his body, with two Fung guards clinging on to him.
He yelled out in English and the words reached us faintly:

"Save yourself! I'll hold these devils. Run, you infernal fool, run!"

Oliver hesitated, although the Mountaineer was pulling at him, till the heads of more Fung
appeared. Then, with a gesture of despair, he turned and fled. First ran Oliver, then Japhet,
whom he had outpaced, and after them came a number of priests or guards, waving knives, while
in the background Higgs rolled on the rock with his captors.

The rest was very short. Orme slid down the rump of the idol on to the tail, followed by the
Mountaineer, and after them in single file came three Fung, who apparently thought no more
of the perilous nature of their foothold than do the sheiks of the Egyptian pyramids when they
swarm about those monuments like lizards. Nor, for the matter of that, did Oliver or Japhet,
who doubled down the tail as though it were a race track. Oliver swung himself on to the ladder,
and in a second was half across it, we holding its other end, when suddenly he heard his companion
cry out. A Fung had got hold of Japhet by the leg and he lay face downward on the board.

Oliver halted and slowly turned round, drawing his revolver as he did so. Then he aimed and
fired, and the Fung, leaving go of Japhet's leg, threw up his arms and plunged headlong into
the gulf beneath. The next thing I remember is that they were both among us, and somebody shouted,
"Pull in the ladder."

"No," said Quick, "wait a bit."

Vaguely I wondered why, till I perceived that three of those courageous Fung were following
across it, resting their hands upon each other's shoulders, while their companions cheered them.

"Now, pull, brothers, pull!" shouted the Sergeant, and pull we did. Poor Fung! they deserved
a better fate.

"Always inflict loss upon the enemy when you get a chance," remarked the Sergeant, as he opened
fire with his repeating rifle upon other Fung who by now were clustering upon the back of the
idol. This position, however, they soon abandoned as untenable, except one or two of them who
remained there, dead or wounded.

A silence followed, in the midst of which I heard Quick saying to Joshua in his very worst Arabic:

"Now does your Royal Highness think that we Gentiles are cowards, although it is true those
Fung are as good men as we any day?"

Joshua declined argument, and I turned to watch Oliver, who had covered his face with his hands,
and seemed to be weeping.

"What is it, O friend, what is it?" I heard Maqueda say in her gentle voice--a voice full of
tears, tears of gratitude I think. "You have done a great deed; you have returned safe; all
is well."

"Nay," he answered, forgetting her titles in his distress, "all is ill. I have failed, and
to-night they throw my brother to the lions. He told me so."

Maqueda, finding no answer, stretched out her hand to the Mountaineer, his companion in adventure,
who kissed it.

"Japhet," she said, "I am proud of you; your reward is fourfold, and henceforth you are a captain
of my Mountaineers."

"Tell us what happened," I said to Oliver.

"This," he answered: "I remembered about your son, and so did Higgs. In fact, he spoke of him
first--they seem to have become friends. He said he would not escape without him, and could
fetch him in a moment, as he was only just below. Well, he went to do so, and must have found
the guard instead, who, I suppose, had heard us talking. You know as much about the rest as
I do. To-night, when the full moon is two hours high, there is to be a ceremony of sacrifice,
and poor Higgs will be let down into the den of lions. He was writing his will in a note-book
when we saw him, as Barung had promised to send it to us."

"Doctor," said the Sergeant, in a confidential voice, when he had digested this information,
"would you translate for me a bit, as I want to have a talk with Cat there, and my Arabic don't
run to it?"

I nodded, and we went to that corner of the plateau where Shadrach stood apart, watching and
listening.

"Now, Cat," said the Sergeant (I give his remarks in his own language, leaving out my rendering)
"just listen to me, and understand that if you tell lies or play games either you or I don't
reach the top of this cliff again alive. She went back and entered
also to comfort her, she wanted subírsele knees, but could not. His mom was so great as all the
Palacio Real, the largest yet. Her mother had given her kisses. After casual, had taken a dress,
then another and another, and many fabrics and ribbons. In this gets her dad suddenly in the
Camon, no band, and his mother cries out in fear.

"I see, madam, I see - says his dad very vex - you brought me here a store ...». rag And his
mother, embarrassed very red face, but did not say: "I ... I ...
see ...».

In this, the poor girl, reaching the peak period of his delirium, he felt that within his body
is strange objects and oppressed people. All I had it in itself, as if he had swallowed half
the world. In his tiny stomach settled, dyed nasty and dense colors, and squeezing horribly
obstructing the bowels, his father, mother, the garments of her mom, Carrion, the Palace, Mr. Fish,
Milagros, Alfonsito, Vargas, Torres ... Retorciose painfully emptied
his body in that loads of things and people pressed it, and there
was ...!, bruumm all out like a torrent.

XXXV

She was relieved ... free of that awful boil your brain. Her mother cleaned the sweat from
his forehead, calling her with loving words. Rosalie felt his groans, undoubted symptoms of
the nightmare, and jumped out of bed to run to his rescue. It was
twelve.

Then made him a cup of tea, and he helped Prudence moved the sheets.

A half-hour the poor girl lay still, and his mother went to the sofa cabinet because dismissed
the bed fire. Before party wanted to give her husband to the dismay of the girl.

- "The usual? - Asked him from the fold of the single sheet that is
covered.

- Yes, as usual, nightmares, seizures, has been among the
strongest attacks.

Finally has calmed down. Poor angel! You will insist that our child is this propensity root
with epilepsy ... Knowing that is corrected sea bathing ...!

- So are those of the Jeronimos ... say, are better.

Rosalie's voice objecting to anything, was lost in the immediate quarters. Bringas, after coughing
a little, wrapped in clouds of sleep your opinion on the superiority of bathrooms Manzanares
to every bathroom in the world.

The improvement of our friend is stressed so much that from mid-July Golfín stopped go home. D. Francisco,
along with Paquito, would query two times a week. As the doctor had his house on Calle del
Arenal, a short distance had to go. The dark glass eye glasses, in addition to a great green
shade, guarding their eyes light, Ridley, always amiable with that recommended by His Majesty,
he dispatched soon. I was very pleased with his priest, and praised the excellent nature of the
patient, winner of evil in a few weeks. In July last eye doctor said his client was leaving in early
August to give a tour of Germany. "But you do not need me to display. I give it high, and what
may happen, one of my assistants will go through here three or four times while I'm out. " Bringas
heard with joy the dismissal of the conscientious doctor, a sign that evil was defeated. Born
of his honesty and sensitivity, prayed the doctor to pass him before leaving ... "Now you understand
me ... the little story of their fees. " Golfín burst into compliments.
"Time will ... What a hurry you ... Anyway, as you want ...». And
the great economist, leaving his son, weighed in the balance of his
mind arithmetical terms of this enigma was soon revealed. What regulatory
or what rate would apply? Would you consider as poor of solemnity,
as used above, as rentier under or a bourgeois shameful and beggar?

"It would be tempting the goodness of God much more if I left my friend to be eaten by lions,
Lady," he answered.

Then followed much discussions. In the end it was agreed that we should descend to the level
of the den, if this were possible; that Oliver and Quick should go down into the den with Japhet,
who instantly volunteered to accompany them, and that I, with some of the Mountaineers, should
stop in the mouth of the hole as a reserve to cover their retreat from the lions. I pleaded
to be allowed to take a more active part, but of this they would not hear, saying with some
truth, that I was by far the best shot of the three, and could do much more to help them from
above, if, as was hoped, the moon should shine brightly.

But I knew they really meant that I was too old to be of service in such an adventure as this.
Also they desired to keep me out of risk.

Then came the question as to who should descend the last tunnel to the place of operations.
Oliver wished Maqueda to return to the top of the cliff and wait there, but she said at once
that she could not think of attempting the ascent without our aid; also that she was determined
to see the end of the matter. Even Joshua would not go; I think, that being an unpopular character
among them, he distrusted the Mountaineers, whose duty it would have been to escort him.

It was suggested that he should remain where he was until we returned, if we did return, but
this idea commended itself to him still less than the other. 

The most unique was that neither in that miserable state had to abandon my good accounting Thiers from
home. While in bed, gave his wife the keys to the drawer where he had money, but since it was
raised again wanted to take up the reins of government and exercise that sovereign function, which
is the most obvious attribute domestic authority. Not intimidated by superimposing their blindness
and active spirit to the body condition, rose up from its seat, approached the table, felt
the furniture to avoid tripping, and opened the drawer Take the drawer where the money was.
Tact had acquired in such a short period education, the fineness in his own private vision,
and knew the coins sobarlas weigh them up and only a little. With the chest on his knees,
he was taking and counting to put the race much in the hands of his wife. This was a timid observation:
"You see, my son, spending is higher in these days."

- Well, it is not. Dress up ... Ah! Today is Saturday, the twenty-four coal actual ... As for the
dancing master, if he insists on raising more tanks, I do not pay more than what the usual,
the rest is on your own. Do not make me more chicken stock, unless the chef chief send you some.
Delete the fourth chicken or the chicken. Fortunately I've gotten used not to be a man of fuss. The
broth cooked with good bone and marrow is better than nothing.

Rosalia, not to the contrary, all said Amen. After removing the everyday of spending money, Bringas
stayed a while with the chest on his knees, and raising a false bottom the mueblecillo had, took
out an old and kneaded portfolio, whose folds were appearing Some notes of the Bank. With
exquisite touch the recitations, duplicated, them again carefully fold, saying: "This is the five
hundred, these two four thousand ... etc.. " Conocíalos by the order they were posted ... Then
put everything in place with respectful pause, kept the ark, and throwing the key is deposited
in your left pocket vest. The lady drove up to put back into the
chair. Now the full moon was up,
and her brilliant light had begun to flood the gulf. By it we saw a dense shadow, that reached
from the ground to three hundred feet or so above us. This we knew to be that thrown by the
flanks of the gigantic sphinx which projected beyond the mountain of stone whereon it rested,
those flanks whence, according to Shadrach, Higgs would be lowered in a food-basket. In this
shadow and on either side of it, covering a space of quite a hundred yards square, lay the
feeding-den, whence arose a sickly and horrible odour such as is common to any place frequented
by cats, mingled with the more pungent smell of decaying flesh.

This darksome den was surrounded on three sides by precipices, and on the fourth, that toward
the east, enclosed by a wall or barrier of rock pierced with several gates made of bars of
metal, or so we judged by the light that flowed through them.

From beyond this eastern wall came dreadful sounds of roars, snarls, and whimperings. Evidently
there the sacred lions had their home.

Only one more thing need be mentioned. On the rock floor almost immediately beneath us lay
remains which, from their torn clothes and hair, we knew must be human. As somebody explained,
I think it was Shadrach, they were those of the man whom Orme had shot upon the tail of the
sphinx, and of his companions who had been tilted off the ladder.

For awhile we gazed at this horrible hole in silence. Then Oliver took out his watch, which
was a repeater, and struck it.

"Higgs told me," he said, "that he was to be thrown to the lions two hours after moonrise,
which is within fifteen minutes or so. Sergeant, I think we had better be getting ready."

"Yes, Captain," answered Quick; "but everything is quite ready, including those brutes, to
judge by the noise they make, excepting perhaps Samuel Quick, who never felt less ready for
anything in his life. Now then, Pussy, run out that ladder. Here's your rifle, Captain, and
six reload clips of cartridges, five hollow-nosed bullets in each. You'll never want more than
that, and it's no use carrying extra weight. In your right-hand pocket, Captain, don't forget.
I've the same in mine. Doctor, here's a pile for you; laid upon that stone. If you lie there,
you'll have a good light and rest for your elbow, and at this range ought to make very pretty
shooting, even in the moonlight. Best keep your pistol on the safe, Captain; at least, I'm
doing so, as we might get a fall, and these new-fangled weapons are very hair-triggered. Here's
Japhet ready, too, so give us your marching orders, sir, and we will go to business; the Doctor
will translate to Japhet."

"We descend the ladder," said Orme, "and advance about fifty paces into the shadow, where we
can see without being seen; where also, according to Shadrach, the food-basket is let down.
There we shall stand and await the arrival of this basket. If it contains the Professor, he
whom the Fung and the Abati know as Black Windows, Japhet, you are to seize him and lead, or
if necessary carry, him to the ladder, up which some of the mountaineers must be ready to help
him. Your duty, Sergeant, and mine, also that of the Doctor firing from above, will be to keep
off the lions as best we can, should any lions appear, retreating as we fire. If the brutes
get one of us he must be left, since it is foolish that both lives should be sacrificed needlessly.
For the rest, you, Sergeant, and you, Japhet, must be guided by circumstances and act upon
your own discretion. Do not wait for special orders from me which I may not be able to give.
Now, come on. If we do not return, Adams, you will see the Child of Kings safely up the shafts
and conduct her to Mur. Good-bye, Lady."

"Good-bye," answered Maqueda in a brave voice; I could not see her face in the darkness. "Presently,
I am sure, you will return with your brother."

Just then Joshua broke in:

"I will not be outdone in courage by these Gentiles," he said. "Lacking their terrible weapons,
I cannot advance into the den, but I will descend and guard the foot of the ladder."

"Very well, sir," answered Orme in an astonished voice, "glad to have your company, I am sure.
Only remember that you must be quick in going up it again, since hungry lions are active, and
let all take notice that we are not responsible for anything that may happen to you."

"Surely you had better stop where you are, my uncle," remarked Maqueda.

"To be mocked by you for ever after, my niece. No, I go to face the lions," and very slowly
he crept through the hole and began to descend the ladder. Indeed, when Quick followed after
an interval he found him only half-way down, and had to hurry his movements by accidentally
treading on his fingers.

A minute or two later, peeping over the edge, I saw that they were all in the den, that is,
except Joshua, who had reascended the ladder to the height of about six feet, and stood on
it face outward, holding to the rock on either side with his hands as though he had been crucified.
Fearing lest he should be seen there, even in the shadow, I suggested to Maqueda that she should
order him either to go down, or to return, which she did vigorously, but without effect. So
in the end we left him alone.

Meanwhile the three had vanished into the shadow of the sphinx, and we could see nothing of
them. The great round moon rose higher and higher, flooding the rest of the charnel-house with
light, and, save for an occasional roar or whimper from the lions beyond the wall, the silence
was intense. Now I could make out the metal gates in this wall, and even dark and stealthy
forms which passed and repassed beyond their bars. Then I made out something else also, the
figures of men gathering on the top of the wall, though whence they came I knew not. By degrees
their number increased till there were hundreds of them, for the wall was broad as a roadway.

Evidently these were spectators, come to witness the ceremony of sacrifice.

"Prince," I whispered to Joshua, "you must get down off the ladder or you will betray us all.
Nay, it is too late to come up here again, for already the moonlight strikes just above your
head. Go down, or we will cast the ladder loose and let you fall."

So he went down and hid himself among some ferns and bushes where we saw no more of him for
a while, and, to tell the truth, forgot his existence.

Far, far above us, from the back of the idol I suppose, came a faint sound of solemn chanting.
It sank, and we heard shouts. Then suddenly it swelled again. Now Maqueda, who knelt near me,
touched my arm and pointed to the shadow which gradually was becoming infiltrated with the
moonlight flowing into it from either side. I looked, and high in the air, perhaps two hundred
feet from the ground, saw something dark descending slowly. Doubtless it was the basket containing
Higgs, and whether by coincidence or no, at this moment the lions on the farther side of the
wall burst into peal upon peal of terrific roaring. Perhaps their sentries watching at the
gate saw or smelt the familiar basket, and communicated the intelligence to their fellows.

Slowly, slowly it descended, till it was within a few feet of the ground, when it began to
sway backward and forward like a pendulum, at each swing covering a wider arc. Presently, when
it hung over the edge of the shadow that was nearest to us, it was let down with a run and
overset, and out of it, looking very small in those vast surroundings and that mysterious light,
rolled the figure of a man. Although at that distance we could see little of him, accident
assured us of his identity, for as he rolled the hat he wore fell from him, and I knew it at
once for Higgs's sun-helmet. He rose from the ground, limped very slowly and painfully after
the helmet, picked it up, and proceeded to use it to dust his knees. It's
raining on me calamities, as if the Lord wanted to prove. Say so are merits for the hereafter,
and must be, must be, because if not, my friend, What saddest thing here and punish punish there?
... I was born with a bad star ... So far, conflicts that I have put my mariducho have been such
that I have been avoiding with skill ... God knows the great merit, what am I worth?, Heroism
in recent years. What hot flashes to sustain the dignity of the house, so that the children are
not missing anything! ... And some days, what eagerness horrible for the servants might say: "The
soup is on the !...» table much humiliation, how much suffering, and what a struggle, my dear,
what a struggle with creditors, with ordinary people and all kinds of beggars! ... But when difficulties
accumulate, when the system goes on much longer to open a hole to plug another and extend and delay, comes
a day when everything goes through it is like a boat too old and patched that suddenly opens
up ... Plum! ... .. y.. "

In reaching this from the damaged ship, the language of the poor lady, rather than language,
was continuous sobbing. Rosalia nearly as distressed as she urged her to explain why of so much
misery, to see if, known in a clear and concrete, it was easy to look for remedy. But the Marquise
was unable or unwilling to expose their conflict in categorical terms. This was a matter of collecting
end of the month, a quantity small. If you did not have, you would see the biggest and more serious
commitment of your life, perhaps, or maybe without, exposed to contempt to be brought to the courts.
But what was ...? Maybe a friend had committed to remove the hard way and she had put her signature
unlucky ...? The very silly!, Why Why not cut his hand before ...? It is true that if he had
cut the little hand, there would had dinner on the night a thousand times unlucky 14.

Rosalia, who knew that the Marquise logic, told him why not write to your manager Almendralejo that
will advance the rent for the quarter, albeit at a discount. To which I replied, sighing Milagros
already a likely solution had been inquired into and could not have income until July 15 ...
Of course, the rent was safe, and the person you make the advance, you pay on time on that date.

-
But can not you postpone ...?

- Impossible, daughter, impossible ... As impossible as flying oxen or my husband has common sense.

-
And your sister, Tula ...?

- Even more absurd ...

Rosalie shrugged.

He saw no salvation.

But Milagros, pursuing the crux of his sacase friend of that deep
rut I was in, cast it on his neck and muffled voice in the ear spelled
these words, more tearful than the cenotaph in which D. Francisco
had worked with such bad luck: "You ... you soul mate, you can save
...».

That said, he became a grief and a convulsioncilla of these women called attack nerve, to call
in some way, followed by a spasm of receiving the beautiful name of syncope.

XXIV

It was necessary to bring a glass of water, unbutton the vest, and
who knows what else.

- But I ... ...?-- Rosalie exclaimed how much
later, horrified - how can I can I ...?

- Asking for a D. Francisco.

I'll give you interest, the revenue they want and pay full-fledged
... Will the letter from my manager to see it.

He says he has the income to the 15. It is not my manager and the
Dona Candida, a vain phantom, but a being of flesh and bone.

It is well known that their advances are always twenty percent.

Rosalia head vigorously denied and the voice ... "My daughter, you are illusions. My husband does
not have a room. And if it did, it would not. You do not know him
...».

For this reason opposed the distraught Mrs Strict other denoting his insight and infinite resources
of his genius. That D. Francisco had was an indisputable point, above any questions. Sitting
this principle, the issue was reduced to see how they emptied the mysterious treasure in the
hands of Milagros need. If a faithful wife took charge the company, which was not a church arch,
or the transfer could take place without with Bringas all. The faithful wife should have no qualms
of conscience on this action somewhat inaccurate and reckless, because the amount would be replaced
before the good lord was in a state of alert failure.

- Why, do you think D. Francisco will be the 15th of July?

This question, made by Milan in the heat of improvisation, hurt enough to Rosalia.

- I hope so, and if it were not so much as I wish, I would assume that he will soon see again.

-
Pardon me, dear friend, if I am slightly sensitive. Sometimes I say some nonsense ... You do not know
what a situation like this as I see it. You live in the glory and does not include what we squirm
and we cooked and even blaspheme the damned in this inferno Madrid ... Things that I can think
...! In a case like this, do not panic you and Believe what I say ... in a case like this, I
imagine it would be even capable of appropriating the alien ... means with the intention of returning.
Ay! When I enter my house and I see the doorman in his little low, eating a garlic soup with the
concierge, envy me ...! I would like send to my principal and I stay in goal, although the site
had to sweep all morning, clean the metals and wash the stairs up and down ... If what I say,
I would rather lock myself in a convent and not remember most of the world. But my children,
my poor kids ... What would they be then? ... When married to Mary, who knows can ...!, be,
maybe I decide to seek rest in the religious life ... At least, I will resign life to the world
and I gathered in my own house, that I may not dress a habit of Carmen, and peace here ... In the
morning my church, in the afternoon to visit some friends, and at night home ... Bed early,
that is as healthy as y. .. Oh, what a rich life! ...

After re-insinuate their claim, but not getting cold Rosalia negative
suddenly said:

"To see how we managed to go together to bathrooms.

I am very late, but before In early August I think it may be. Did not the doctor say yet what
it will take water Bringas? I'll go anywhere you go, because for my ills are the same waters
that works ... Everything is in a bit and shake him out of the oven. "

In this little trip to the baths was Rosalia more communicative than in the previous issue. While
wishing to summer but had not the doctor say anything conclusive. Brinker did not want to go
do costs, but if the doctor ordered, how to refuse it ...? The lady herself did not sit use some expansion
and movement, as was delicadita and somewhat impaired ... This gab of dresses became bathrooms,
and after the comments came the Pronatura ... Rosalie was in Mozambique, and almost finished, and
her friend so warmly welcomed for good air than he had, that little burst of vanity the daughter
of a hundred Pipaón.

"If you are elegant ... if what you get is wonderful. The truth is not because you are my friend
... Everyone I say: if you want, it would not rival. What a body!, What a fall from his shoulders!
Frankly, you always want to dress that obscures As he comes alongside.

"

- That was Rosalia drooled with this flattery, I must not say. It was stupid person of such
merit that had to hide your good clothes, put it on the sly and invent thousand lies to justify the
use of various items that seemed tailored to her beautiful body by the angels of fashion. By
removing those galas front of her friend, thought in the enormous
problem of explaining the husband acquiring them, if they had more
but to show them off before your eyes or wear them.

Miracles did not say goodbye without compunction mannerisms repeat
his drowning and the relief requested.

Finally, Rosalia comforted his spirit with a see, and the face of the Telleria iluminose with
a spark of joy.

"Tomorrow - said at the door - I will send this blonde who liked you so much ... No, do not thank
me ... I'm the one to thank, and if you make me out of the swamp ... (Printed two sentimental sound
and kisses.) Eternal gratitude ... Goodbye. "

In those days he Archena D. Manuel Pez, pleased at how well he had been sitting waters, with good
color, better appetite and encouragement for all. His first visit was to Bringas, whose disease
had been reported in the bathrooms, and encouraged him a lot and offered to accompany in morning,
afternoon and night, devoting as much time as his duties allowed him free. He served this at face
value, and its presence in the house became so regulatory provision when it would seem that something
was missing. At times amusing the patient with the political events telling thousand pleasantry,
but was careful not to weigh the dangers of the Throne or wrong course taking things for my D.
Francisco, as he heard of the so-called revolution was put was sad and sighs that broke my
heart. When there were other accompanying in Gasparini, or when it was considered detrimental
very long conversation, fish would Saleta or the Ambassadors, where Rosalie, found the way,
changing a few words him. The lady noticed his friend a mute and ceremonious respect, and the
gallantry with which the gifts were always chivalrous and somewhat convoluted style. She corresponded
with feelings of admiration, of a spotless purity, because Fish was growing more each day
to his eyes, as a type of official character of the high official, lavish and courteous. In Pipaón's
mind, no ideal man would be complete without being bathed in golden atmosphere of a payroll.
If fish had not been used, would have lost much in his eyes accustomed to seeing the world as if
everything he was an office and did not know each other means of living than the budget. After
that elegant look that black coat closed without a speck, pressed,
stretched, as if she were born in the skin of the subject, those necks
as the driven snow, tall, stiff, trousers that seemed released the
same day, those hands carefully manicured woman ...!

XXV

And that way of combing as simple and as Mr. at the same time that use of fine discrete perfumes,
that perfumed leather pouch from Russia, fine manners and those that speak pompous, saying things
two or three ways to make them better understood ...! Ni once, whenever he said something,
let's use some clever phrase meaning and a little double. Rosalie had not heard perhaps like
if you do not inspire indulgence consideration of that very well deserved and that somehow the
company had to honor her debts, which until then had not been paid
in any way.

Came to be fish, in good faith, the relief from it, in the name of the company paid him forgotten taxes.

As
well the heat pressed mainly in the afternoon, because the house is to the west, the family
sought relief on the terrace. One afternoon, with doctor's permission, came out the same D.
Francisco, leaning on the arm of fish, and took a couple of laps, but did not sit well, and
rides were left until the patient is in a better condition. But verse that private entertainment,
like no others are private, and often called his wife to come out and get some air. "Daughter,
do not know what I get to see you locked in this casserole. I do not feel the heat, but you never
cease to walk from here to there, you will burned. Skip to the terrace. " The more often Rosalía
denied it. "I am not for walking ... let me. " But some evenings out. Mr. Fish was with her. One
day he came in first, it really was drowning in the heated cabinet saw with his robe appear gooseberry
adorned with lace, fanning herself. She was elegant, somewhat noisy, as would Milagros; but very
good, very good. Count the compliments that threw Fish would make this book a madrigal long.
Somehow, the lady let herself go in promoting a violent spontaneity that in his mind was abuzz,
and told his friend the incident of the gown, caught by husband at a time when the band rose ...
"Poor boy, you do not like to see things that seem to me an excessive luxury ... and may be right
...». Spent here Pipaón general considerations. To Bringas there were only four rags always well apañaditos,
and metamorphosis the same dress to infinity ... Of course she did not know how to manage. A the
requesting party allegiance owed to her husband, the other the desire to appear respectable,
with dignity ... Decorum by himself! "If it were me alone, I care little. But is for him, for he ... not
to say there that I dress in Tarascan. "

All this was approved in a phrase Pez already decided but not vehement, and became indignant, scold
hard to your friend as opposed to petty social requirements ... "That man not know that his
own dignity, his own decency, his own interest ... How is career such a man, a man who runs
well, a man who thus comes ?...». Rosalia was extended further in the field of confidence, not silence
the agonies Bringas going to hide the small purchases she had to do ... "Sometimes you do
not know what I suffer, I have to lie, I have to invent stories ...». Tan cavalier Fish and
noble was that after her friend to commiserate with all the soul, offered to pay their generous
assistance if the unspeakable sordideces Rosalia looked her in any difficult situation ... "Either
there is friendship between the two, or lacking, or are openly or not. This would be between you
and me ... How to pamper you ... with so much worth, as much merit, with a figure as there
are few, let's look ...!».

And such a flood of accolades followed, fanned Rosalia more to mitigate the heat vivid that left
his skin. Her beautiful facets nose swelled, swelled to bursting ... "I'll give the drink ... are
the seven "- said suddenly. She also had to take that I needed it.

With the assurances given by the doctor the next day, got all excited. Were heard new laughter in
the house, and the patient himself, recovering his spirits, gave off sparks impatience and
vivacity. "The next week - had said the doctor - we will remove you rag. That's going very well.
 Further, intercourse was kept up between the Fung, who then had their headquarters
here in Mur, and the Egyptians in the time of the ancient empire, till the Twentieth Dynasty,
indeed, if not later. My friends, in the dungeons in which I was confined there is an inscription,
or, rather, a graffite, made by a prisoner extradited to Mur by Rameses II., after twenty years'
residence in Egypt, which was written by him on the night before he was thrown to the sacred
lions, that even in those days were an established institution. And I have got a copy of that
inscription in my pocket-book. I tell you," he added in a scream of triumph, "I've got a certified
copy of that inscription, thanks to Shadrach, on whose dirty head be blessings!"

I congratulated him heartily upon this triumph, and before he proceeded to give us further
archæological details, asked him for some information about my boy.

"Oh," said Higgs, "he is a very nice young man and extremely good looking. Indeed, I am quite
proud to have such a godson. He was much interested to hear that you were hunting for him after
so many years, quite touched indeed. He still talks English, though with a Fung accent, and,
of course, would like to escape. Meanwhile, he is having a very good time, being chief singer
to the god, for his voice is really beautiful, an office which carries with it all sorts of
privileges. I told you, didn't I, that he is to be married to Barung's only legitimate daughter
on the night of the next full moon but one. The ceremony is to take place in Harmac City, and
will be the greatest of its sort for generations, a feast of the entire people in short. I
should very much like to be present at it, but being an intelligent young man he has promised
to keep notes of everything, which I hope may become available in due course."

"And is he attached to this savage lady?" I asked dismayed.

"Attached? Oh, dear no, I think he said he had never seen her, and only knew that she was rather
plain and reported to possess a haughty temper. He is a philosophical young man, however, as
might be expected from one who has undergone so many vicissitudes, and, therefore, takes things
as they come, thanking heaven that they are no worse. You see, as the husband of the Sultan's
daughter, unless the pair quarrel very violently, he will be safe from the lions, and he could
never quite say as much before. But we didn't go into these domestic matters very deeply as
there were so many more important things to interest us both. He wanted to know all about you
and our plans, and naturally I wanted to know all about the Fung and the ritual and traditions
connected with the worship of Harmac, so that we were never dull for a single moment. In fact,
I wish that we could have had longer together, for we became excellent friends. But whatever
happens, I think that I have collected the cream of his information," and he tapped a fat note-book
in his hands, adding:

"What an awful thing it would have been if a lion had eaten this. For myself it did not matter;
there may be many better Egyptologists, but I doubt if any one of them will again have such
opportunities of original research. However, I took every possible precaution to save my notes
by leaving a copy of the most important of them written with native ink upon sheepskin in charge
of your son. Indeed, I meant to leave the originals also, but fortunately forgot in the excitement
of my very hurried departure."

I agreed with him that his chances had been unique and that he was a most lucky archæologist,
and presently he went on puffing at his pipe.

"Of course, when Oliver turned up in that unexpected fashion on the back of the idol, remembering
your wishes and natural desire to recover your son, I did my best to rescue him also. But he
wasn't in the room beneath, where I thought I should find him. The priests were there instead,
and they had heard us talking above, and you know the rest. Well, as it happens, it didn't
matter, though that descent into the den of lions--there were two or three hundred feet of
it, and the rope seemed worn uncommonly thin with use--was a trying business to the nerves."

"What did you think about all the time?" asked Oliver curiously.

"Think about? I didn't think much, was in too great a fright. I just wondered whether St. Paul
had the same sensations when he was let down in a basket; wondered what the early Christian
martyrs felt like in the arena; wondered whether Barung, with whom my parting was quite affectionate,
would come in the morning and look for me as Darius did for Daniel and how much he would find
if he did; hoped that my specs would give one of those brutes appendicitis, and so forth. My
word! it was sickening, especially that kind of school-treat swing and bump at the end. I never
could bear swinging. Still, it was all for the best, as I shouldn't have gone a yard along
that sphinx's tail without tumbling off, tight-rope walking not being in my line; and I'll
tell you what, you are just the best three fellows in the whole world. Don't you think I forget
that because I haven't said much. And now let's have your yarn, for I want to hear how things
stand, which I never expected to do this side of Judgment-day."

So we told him all, while he listened open-mouthed. When we came to the description of the
Tomb of the Kings his excitement could scarcely be restrained.

"You haven't touched them," he almost screamed; "don't say you have been vandals enough to
touch them, for every article must be catalogued in situ and drawings must be made. If possible,
specimen groups with their surrounding offerings should be moved so that they can be set up
again in museums. Why, there's six months' work before me, at least. And to think that if it
hadn't been for you, by now I should be in process of digestion by a lion, a stinking, mangy,
sacred lion!"

Next morning I was awakened by Higgs limping into my room in some weird sleeping-suit that
he had contrived with the help of Quick.

"I say, old fellow," he said, "tell me some more about that girl, Walda Nagasta. What a sweet
face she's got, and what pluck! 

Rosalia heard this anger alive, but his own pride forbade him to contradict. Callose, and Chest
jumbles the snakes made him of his illusion vanished. Already been used the idea of ​​finding her friends
in the station of San Sebastian and hit them with Basin in snouts, to put in letters dating
from the Basin, and finally, of Arcachonizarse for throughout the coming autumn and winter.

XL

In
the sadness of his exile, one thing glad the soul of the unhappy
lady, and was that their children were in excellent health.

Isabelita, which always had its annoyances all on tenterhooks mom
did not suffer during the summer, none of those disorders spasmodic
withered his childhood.

Whether or not good Jeronimos baths, this is that she had won, he took them, meat and colors,
in addition to an excellent appetite. In As for the small excuse to say that with the waters
of the Manzanares was bursting with sound. Its strength was such that never ceased to prove
itself and grow to become larger and more powerful. The development instinct urged him incessantly
to exercise body, and to try and learn laborious acts of energy. Up to greater heights I could,
climbing a pillar, caper, carry loads, dragging furniture, pour and distribute water, playing
with fire and if he could with gunpowder, were more fun than loved. Skills revealed no mechanical
ability as his dad. It was rather a clever As destroyer fell into his hands. During the tasks
of strength, missed his mouth profanity and suits learned on the street. When his little sister's
prissy listened, holy God, then he was running to bring the story to his father. "Dad is saying
Alfonsito ...». things AND D. Francisco, who hated the dialects, shouting, "Child, come here
soon. Bring me a chili pepper in the kitchen. "
 The moment that I entered the man's presence I
noticed a change in his face. Like the rest of us I had always set this fellow down as a mere
poltroon and windbag, a blower of his own trumpet, as Oliver had called him. Now I got an insight
into his real nature which showed me that although he might be these things and worse, he was
also a very determined and dangerous person, animated by ambitions which he meant to satisfy
at all hazards.

When I had done what I could for him and told him that in my opinion he had no ill results
to fear from his hurts, since the thick clothes he was wearing at the time had probably cleaned
the lion's paws of any poison that might have been on them, he said,

"Physician, I desire private words with you."

I bowed, and he went on:

"The Child of Kings, hereditary ruler of this land, somewhat against the advice of her Council,
has thought fit to employ you and your Gentile companions in order that by your skill and certain
arts of which you are masters you may damage its ancient enemies, the Fung, and in reward has
promised to pay you well should you succeed in your endeavours. Now, I wish you to understand
that though you think yourselves great men, and may for aught I know be great in your own country,
here you are but servants like any other mercenaries whom it may please us to hire."

His tone was so offensive that, though it might have been wiser to keep silent, I could not
help interrupting him. From there, I always bring three or four more. You can not
I surrendered to figure out how to work these days. My maridillo not help me anything. All you
have to give fact. This year has not even bothered to ask for tickets Free.
 That of the Captain Orme is the quest of adventure and war, since being a rich man
in his own country he needs no further wealth. That of him whom you call Black Windows, but
whose name is Higgs, is the pure love of learning. In England and throughout the West he is
noted for his knowledge of dead peoples, their languages, and customs, and it is to study these
that he has undertaken so terrible a journey. As for Quick, he is Orme's man, who has known
him from childhood, an old soldier who has served with him in war and comes hither to be with
the master whom he loves."

"Ah!" said Joshua, "a servant, a person of no degree, who yet dares to threaten me, the premier
prince of the Abati, to my face."

"In the presence of death all men are equal, Prince. You acted in a fashion that might have
brought his lord, who was daring a desperate deed, to a hideous doom."

"And what do I care about his lord's desperate deeds, Physician? I see that you set store by
such things, and think those who accomplish them great and wonderful. Well, we do not. There
is no savage among the barbarous Fung would not do all that your Orme does, and more, just
because he is a savage. We who are civilized, we who are cultivated, we who are wise, know
better. Beyond the smooth contours of mountains could be
seen, rippling falling like they drink, then had a little sea, a bit of river, the hazy outline
of a city with Gothic towers and battlements, and above, in space destined for heaven, a wafer
that must be the moon Judging from the white reflections glazing her waters and mountains.

The
color of this beautiful work of art was brown, black and blond.

The range of dark to served to produce clear illusions of aerial perspective. Was enclosed
in an oval may have half a yard in diameter, and the appearance of it was not stain but drawing,
being expressed primarily through lines or dots. Was intaglio, etching, steel plate, box or
pacienzuda work performed at the point of hard pencil or ink pen China? ... Fixed in the trivial,
conscientious and firm as hard work. Willow leaves could be counted one by one. The artist had
wanted to express the whole, not the total same but the amount of detail, copying unlearned to
nature, and to obtain foliage, was put on the holy calm of the leaves all one after another. Tell
them so small that you could not see it under a microscope. All the grave chiaroscuro orders
was well grouped tiny lines, comb and trellises forming more or less under different light
intensity values.
 "But I would have you understand
something also--that we are men of a high race whose arm stretches over half the world, and
that we differ from the little tribe of the Abati, whose fame is not known to us, in this--that
we are jealous of our own honour, and do not need to hire strangers to fight the foes we fear
to face. Next time I come to attend to your wounds, O Prince, I trust that they will be in
front, and not behind. One word more, if you will be advised by me you will not threaten that
Captain whom you call a Gentile and a mercenary, lest you should learn that it is not always
well to be a coward, of blood however ancient."

Then, in a towering rage, I left him, feeling that I had made a thorough fool of myself. But
the truth was that I could not sit still and hear men such as my companions, to say nothing
of myself, spoken of thus by a bloated cur, who called himself a prince and boasted of his
own poltroonery. He glowered at me as I went, and the men of his party who hung about the end
of the great room and in his courts, glowered at me also. Clearly he was a very dangerous cur,
and I almost wished that instead of threatening to slap his face down in the tunnel, Quick
had broken his neck and made an end of him.

So did the others when I told them the story, although I think it opened their eyes, and especially
those of Oliver, to the grave and growing dangers of the situation. Afterward he informed me
that he had spoken of the matter with Maqueda, and that she was much frightened for our sakes,
and somewhat for her own. Joshua, she said, was a man capable of any crime, who had at his
back the great majority of the Abati; a jealous, mean and intolerant race who made up in cunning
for what they lacked in courage.

Yet, as I saw well, the peril of their situation did nothing to separate this pair or to lessen
their love. Indeed, rather did it seem to bind them closer together, and to make them more
completely one. In short, the tragedy took its appointed course, whilst we stood by and watched
it helplessly.

On the afternoon of my angry interview with Joshua we were summoned to a meeting of the Council,
whither we went, not without some trepidation, expecting trouble. Trouble there was, but of
a different sort to that which we feared. Scarcely had we entered the great room where the
Child of Kings was seated in her chair of state surrounded by all the pomp and ceremony of
her mimic court, when the big doors at the end of it were opened, and through them marched
three gray-bearded men in white robes whom we saw at once were heralds or ambassadors from
the Fung. These men bowed to the veiled Maqueda and, turning toward where we stood in a little
group apart, bowed to us also.

But of Joshua, who was there supported by two servants, for he could not yet stand alone, and
the other notables and priests of the Abati, they took not the slightest heed.

"Speak," said Maqueda.

"Lady," answered the spokesman of the embassy, "we are sent by our Sultan, Barung, son of Barung,
Ruler of the Fung nation. These are the words of Barung: O Walda Nagasta! 'By the hands and
the wit of the white lords whom you have called to your aid, you have of late done much evil
to the god Harmac and to me his servant. You have destroyed one of the gates of my city, and
with it many of my people. You have rescued a prisoner out of my hands, robbing Harmac of his
sacrifice and thereby bringing his wrath upon us. You have slain sundry of the sacred beasts
that are the mouth of sacrifice, you have killed certain of the priests and guards of Harmac
in a hole of the rocks. Moreover my spies tell me that you plan further ills against the god
and against me. Now I send to tell you that for these and other offences I will make an end
of the people of the Abati, whom hitherto I have spared. In a little while I marry my daughter
to the white man, that priest of Harmac who is called Singer of Egypt, and who is said to be
the son of the physician in your service, but after I have celebrated this feast and my people
have finished the hoeing of their crops, I take up the sword in earnest, nor will I lay it
down again until the Abati are no more.

"'Learn that last night after the holy beasts had been slain and the sacrifice snatched away,
the god Harmac spoke to his priests in prophecy. And this was his prophecy; that before the
gathering in of the harvest his head should sleep above the plain of Mur. We know not the interpretation
of the saying, but this I know, that before the gathering of the harvest I, or those who rule
after me, will lie down to sleep within my city of Mur.'

"'Now, choose--surrender forthwith and, save for the dog, Joshua, who the other day tried to
entrap me against the custom of peoples, and ten others whom I shall name, I will spare the
lives of all of you, though Joshua and these ten I will hang, since they are not worthy to
die by the sword. Or resist, and by Harmac himself I swear that every man among the Abati shall
die save the white lords whom I honour because they are brave, and that servant of yours who
stood with them last night in the den of lions, and that every woman shall be made a slave,
save you, O Walda Nagasta, because of your great heart. Your answer, O Lady of the Abati!'"

Now Maqueda looked around the faces of her Council, and saw fear written upon them all. Indeed,
as we noted, many of them shook in their terror.

"My answer will be short, ambassadors of Barung," she replied, "still, I am but one woman,
and it is fitting that those who represent the people should speak for the people. My uncle,
Joshua, you are the first of my Council, what have you to say? Are you willing to give up your
life with ten others whose names I do not know, that there may be peace between us and the Fung?"

"What?" answered Joshua, with a splutter of rage, "do I live to hear a Walda Nagasta suggest
that the first prince of the land, her uncle and affianced husband, should be surrendered to
our hereditary foes to be hanged like a worn-out hound, and do you, O unknown ten, who doubtless
stand in this chamber, live to hear it also?"

"My uncle, you do not. I asked if such was your wish, that is all."

"Then I answer that it is not my wish, nor the wish of the ten, nor the wish of the Abati.
Nay, we will fight the Fung and destroy them, and of their beast-headed idol Harmac we will
make blocks to build our synagogues and stones to pave our roads. Do you hear, savages of Fung?"
and assisted by his two servants he hobbled towards them, grinning in their faces.

The envoys looked him up and down with their quiet eyes. "We hear and we are very glad to hear,"
their spokesman answered, "since we Fung love to settle our quarrels with the sword and not
by treaty. But to you, Joshua, we say: Make haste to die before we enter Mur, since the rope
is not the only means of death whereof we know."

Very solemnly the three ambassadors saluted, first the Child of Kings and next ourselves, then
turned to go.

"Kill them!" shouted Joshua, "they have threatened and insulted me, the Prince!"

But no one lifted a hand against the men, who passed safely out of the palace to the square,
where an escort waited with their horses.

CHAPTER XIV

HOW PHARAOH MET SHADRACH

When the ambassadors had gone, at first there was silence, a very heavy silence, since even
the frivolous Abati felt that the hour was big with fate. Of a sudden, however, the members
of the Council began to chatter like so many monkeys, each talking without listening to what
his neighbour said, till at length a gorgeously dressed person, I understood that he was a
priest, stepped forward, and shouted down the others.

Then he spoke in an excited and venomous fashion. He pointed out that we Gentiles had brought
all this trouble upon Mur, since before we came the Abati, although threatened, had lived in
peace and glory--he actually used the word glory!--for generations. But now we had stung the
Fung, as a hornet stings a bull, and made them mad, so that they wished to toss the Abati.
He proposed, therefore, that we should at once be ejected from Mur.

At this point I saw Joshua whisper into the ear of a man, who called out:--

"No, no, for then they would go to their friend, Barung, a savage like themselves, and having
learned our secrets, would doubtless use them against us. I say that they must be killed instantly,"
and he drew a sword, and waved it.

Quick walked up to the fellow and clapped a pistol to his head.

"Drop that sword," he said, "or you'll never hear the end of the story," and he obeyed, whereupon
Quick came back.

Now Maqueda began to speak, quietly enough, although I could see that she was quaking with passion.

"These men are our guests," she said, "come hither to serve us. Do you desire to murder our
guests? Moreover, of what use would that be? One thing alone can save us, the destruction of
the god of the Fung, since, according to the ancient saying of that people, when the idol is
destroyed the Fung will leave their city of Harmac. Moreover, as to this new prophecy of the
priests of the idol, that before the gathering in of the harvest his head shall sleep above
the plain of Mur, how can that happen if it is destroyed, unless indeed it means that Harmac
shall sleep in the heavens. Therefore what have you to fear from threats built upon that which
cannot happen?

"But can you destroy this false god Harmac, or dare you fight the Fung? You know that it is
not so, for had it been so what need was there for me to send for these Westerns? And if you
murder them, will Barung thereby be appeased? Nay, I tell you that being a brave and honourable
man, although our enemy, he will become ten times more wroth with you than he was before, and
exact a vengeance even more terrible. I tell you also, that then you must find another Walda
Nagasta to rule over you, since I, Maqueda, will do so no more."

"That is impossible," said some one, "you are the last woman of the true blood."

"Then you can choose one of blood that is not true, or elect a king, as the Jews elected Saul,
for if my guests are butchered I shall die of very shame."

These words of hers seemed to cow the Council, one of whom asked what would she have them do?

"Do?" she replied, throwing back her veil, "why, be men, raise an army of every male who can
carry a sword; help the foreigners, and they will lead you to victory. People of the Abati,
would you be slaughtered, would you see your women slaves, and your ancient name blotted out
from the list of peoples?"

Now some of them cried, "No."

"Then save yourselves. You are still many, the strangers here have skill in war, they can lead
if you will follow. Be brave a while, and I swear to you that by harvest the Abati shall sit
in the city of Harmac and not the Fung in Mur. In the eyes of Madame Thiers, the last brilliant Candida had
left, the weather cleared, flashes of prestige and nobility about the Roman bust stiff and packaging
of the illustrious widow. This aura fascinated Rosalia, who exaggerating their respect for fallen
majesties, appeared to take seriously what my manager, my home ... Candida was expressed on all occasions
with ease and security and upside down across the world that gave rise to replication. He
lived in the East Wing, the humble neighborhood of what we have agreed to call the city, but
no other resident of this made more visits and spent more time away from home. All day was spent
in house to house, calling for different doors, visiting, chatting, visiting all parts the colossus
from the kitchen to the coops, and at night, without leaving the street, came to a temporary hut
so rendered as if he had run half of Madrid. Had no family a niece named Irene, about nine or
ten years, orphan of a brother Garcia Grande that had been equerry to SM This was the inseparable
friend of the Bringas girl, and in the afternoons saw, hand wrist and snack in the mouth,
playing the terrace or in the lightest of those Luengas covered streets.

The person over hint of how many lived there, and that the concept
of ranked Rosalia immediately below that of the royal family, was
the General lived Minio, Waitress more His Majesty's person very distinguished
and unblemished by any side that look at her.

In the city called him all the loving and popular name of Dona Tula, but never Rosalia I got
out the title, and everything was "Countess this, Countess of otherness and beyond." This kind
and noble lady was the sister of the Countess de Telleria and Alejandro Sanchez Botin, who
has been deputy and has appeared many times already in half a dozen parties. The Sanchez Botin
are good family, I think a solar lineage Bierzo, and are related, but remote Aransis's family. On
the same day they married two sisters, the Marquis Milagros Telleria, and Gertrude, who was the
oldest, with Colonel Mini, which quickly rose in general, winning battles in the ante-palatal
courtesans. There was no birthday of kings or princes that he did not catch a cross, or degree.
When he could not give anything higher in order of militia, two gimped, I graced him with the title
of Count Santa Barbara (from a farm that was in Navarra), having a name that whiff powder,
tallied well with his job, although it was said of him that he had never smelled more than we spend
to save. The reputation for bravery that had enjoyed was based on very rough. In the disorder
of our ideas can easily become heroes that can hardly write his name. The truth is that D. Peter
Minio, Marquis of Santa Barbara, was impressive person at a standstill, or by reviewing inspection
in the barracks, or military giving screams played by the various Directorates. Except for
some minor skirmishes that took part during the first war, civil, military history of our country
never told "This mouth is mine." But it will pass to posterity by the famous sayings of the sword
of Demosthenes Pentecost fabric and soul of Garibaldi, for that to go to Havana, stopping in
the Philippines with other stuff that collected by their subordinates, are a delicious patchwork
of nonsense. The Queen knew them fluently and had a lot of salt. But not to stir the ashes
of this void, whom the Countess said, in the most hidden folds of trust, I was awarded a beast,
and let's deal with his widow.

VII

It was all so different from the Marquise de Telleria seemed not daughters of the same mother. Nor did
he like, or the condition or the figure, with his famous brother
Alexander Sanchez Botin, a man of great means.

The few items that appear adorned they were complemented by another
form of human distinction, disgrace, privilege beings to come to perfection.

The two children who inherited the name, rudeness and the General solecisms were two good jewelry.
What happened to them that mother martyr Cavalry to pursue a career is not for cash. Were five
or six years of cruel fighting desaplicación with barbarism and the boys, a strenuous boxing
with teachers; and thanks to the name you had and I wrote little notes for each course the Queen,
left forward. And were officers and were in place, when a new series of bitter disappointments
the existence of Dona Tula. Months did not pass without one of his buds do a lot. Issues, challenges,
drunkenness, summary, gambling dens, trapping, were the history of all days, and Mom had to
remedy this with the recommendations and disbursements. Came to feel so tired, that when the
eldest, also named Peter Minio, we expressed the desire to go to Cuba, had no strength to oppose
her. The other wanted to marry woman with a bad record. New battle of the mother, who used to
avoid, how resources will allow knowledge of the world and its high position. This lady said a phrase
that stuck in the minds of all who heard it, absurd and painful cry selfishness against motherhood,
and if not a paradox, it would be blasphemy against Nature and the human species. They spoke
of children and mothers who wanted them, as well as that were in excessive number. "Ah, children!
- Dona Tula said with sad accent -. They are a nine-month illness and convalescence life. "

If the children of that lady was stupid, stunted and ugly as hell, however the sister Milagros
had given the world four angels from their tender age marked with the seal of beauty, grace
and discretion. That Leopoldito so mischievous monkey that Gustavito as early as sabidillo and sitting,
that Luisito so mystical, it seemed an apprentice saint, and especially that Mary, with green
eyes and Hellenic profile, extracted from Venus the ruins of Greece, sovereign, living sculpture,
what envanecerían mother? Doña Tula worshiped his nephews.

Were for her children that had not caused any pain to the children of another yours for the
inconvenience and thank you. To Mary, who then turned fifteen, the passionately adored grandmother,
mother or twice, and was somewhat spoiled and mimosa. The beautiful girl was Sunday and Thursday
to spend with Dona Tula all day, also used go on Tuesdays and Fridays, and sometimes on Mondays
and Saturdays. The holidays there reuníanse the overall number of girlfriends, including girls
from D. Buenaventura de Lantigua, and These premium, daughter of the famous jurist D. Juan de
Lantigua, which, if I am wrong Gloria called.

Mary!, It seemed that terrace! Nymphs had higher suit very soon would fall to the ground, and
other clothing under two weeks before had been high. Which had just received the investiture
of women were walking in groups, arm in arm doing trials of formality and quiet and discreet
conversation. Smaller ran, teaching halfway up the leg, and it is safe to say that Isabelita
Bringas and niece Dona Candida were the most rattled. When getting those galleries slip Dare to sneak
a boyfriend bittersweet pollanco a suitor, the stick, tie color,
fungus clear, and perhaps tip cigarette in amber ... Oh my God, who
could count the laughs, the hideouts, the sosadas, play innocent,
delightful nonsense Fresh those souls who had just opened their petals
to the sun of life?

The brief terms that light was crossed on the one hand, the most insipid of improved social language
and secondly the naive rantings of primitive societies. In all these cases is repeated the beginning
of the world incessantly, that is, the itching of Creation, wanting.

The playful band of half-formed women invaded the home of Bringas. Rosalia, joyful be treated
with Dona Tula, with Telleria, with Lantiguas, recibíalas with arms open, and regaled with cakes,
which had previously brought the pastry palace. "Play, tangled, shouting and confusion that
I do not bother" - playfully told Bringas from the window opening, which was submerged in the
deep immensity of their hair. Y they were not made to pray, opened the piano, one of them banging
a polka or waltz, and other, hugging each other in pairs, dance, tossing happy, laughing, crying and
kissing.

"Dance, run, the house is yours, dear girls" - he said without looking
away Thiers of the atoms that stuck to the glass, and they took it
as the literally running Gasparini dancing and jumps to Saleta went
into the Carrion and Columns.

Well I say ... when I was by shuffling Isabelita his wrists, was the beginning and no end. Precisely
Tallud the most were those that were entertained with more rage in this hilarious mock domestic
life, dressing and undressing and tow sissies china, clothing babies with glass eyes and moving the
stuff of tin kitchen cabinet or a carton. What seized the attention of all, reaching up to produce
rivalry, it was a huge doll that D. Agustin Caballero Isabelita had sent from Bordeaux, which
was a good piece, moving his eyes, he said had mom and dad and joints to be placed in all positions.
Of a creature that there was only one step, suffer.

That clothed him cool afternoon, and when a petulant rumorcillo indicated the proximity of
the chicks in the corridor when they heard his laughter in the style of skulls and their voices
sounded very close, the previous month had acquired the hoarseness of manhood, the girls stuck
their wrist to the high fence of Carrion, and here was the nonsense of them and the innocent fun of them.

For
more than D. Francisco protested the taste I had in seeing his house full of Seraphim ever bothered
him. When I admire the work happening hairy and enracimaban in around the table, the great
artist, unable to breathe in that beautiful crown heads, they said, laughing: "Girls, for God's
sake, take a little back. To see no need drowning ... or pour the paint. Care, Gloria, you take
me stuck in that hair manga. Are the trunk of the willow. Care, Mary, that your breath is
thrown into the air these gray ... Back, back, do me the favor ...».

VIII

And they, "what boniiito, what precioooso ...! Alabao God ... what angel fingers! D. Francisco,
you will go blind ...».

What story did in the Spring of 68, and on Holy Thursday of that year was one of the days when
more uproar. Don Francisco, sanctifying the holidays, attended high label his cross, and in
particular to the religious ceremony in the chapel. Rosalie also presented himself at the royal
purple, judging that his presence was indispensable to the ceremonies they had all the glitz
and pomp suitable. Candida did not go down, apparently "because I was tired of ceremonial "because
I did not really dress.

Lantigua girls and invaded Sudre From early Dona Tula room, which
by virtue of his office got very dress up, funny leaving the herd
by a lady who accompanied her.

Much of fun that day, and how did the chickens Leoncito rage, Frederick Cimarra that of Horro and
other equally beautiful and well used!

Invited them to come up with a loft deception high saying that from there you could see inside
the chapel, and then they locked me until mid-afternoon.

Because they were friends of the clerk, resident of Candida could be placed on the ladder chapel
to discern, amidst door ajar, the headpiece of the patriarch and two candles tenebrario off
of an altar covered in purple cloth, some chaplains and some bald gentlemen breasts full of crosses
and bands, but nothing more. A little later succeeded see some of the beautiful ceremony of giving
food to the poor after washing. There are the southern wing of the terrace a large glass skylights,
protected by networks wire. Correspond to the main staircase to the Hall of Columns and Guards.
Peering for them, so closely is the curved roof, which are monstrous and crudely painted figures
that decorate it. Angelone and nymphs spread their legs for Scotland enormous riding on clouds
that look like gray cotton bales.

In other figures would believe that the effort of his colossal muscle up in the air the roof
framing. In contrast, Flower Carpet, which is deep, tomaríanse by thumbnails.

Crowd of people of all kinds, people in the city, came very early to catch place in the Hall of
Columns skylights for the food of the poor. It enracimaban women with large circles of glass,
and as there was no holes, which could be placed in the front, even delivering elbows, enjoyed
that pompous royal act of humility that everyone plays as you want. There were some who cut the glass
with a diamond ring to practice huequecillos where none existed. What a mess, what a crowd murmur
of impatient and talkative! Strangers, who had been invited as they were so intrusive that they
wanted to if all the belvedere. More Candida, with that authority that he knew clothed at all
times serious, sent clear one of the skylights to take free possession of her girls Telleria,
Lantigua and Bringas. Démontrer lady! He threatened to put out a
stranger if all people not obeyed.

Curious spectacle was the Hall of Columns as seen from the roof. The table of the twelve poor
did not look very good, but that of the twelve old was in front and not a detail lost. What
a shame the unhappy with their merino dresses, their new shawls and the head scarves! Verse
among much pomp, served by the Queen herself, including that the asked a sad day before farthing
in the door of a church! ... No lifting his eyes table rather than to look astonished those who
served them. Some shed tears of embarrassment rather than gratitude, for its position among
the mighty of the land and to the charity of label that favored more was to humiliate that pamper.
If all effort of imagination would not be sufficient to represent Christ in tails, there is no
reasoning which can convince us that this comedy palace has nothing to do with Gospel.

The plates were taken at the door, hands raised, for the straight people waiter made in this
pious occasion. Forming chain, ladies and gentle men were going to the very hands of the Kings,
who presented them to the poor air of kindness and courtesy, the only sympathetic note in that
picture theatrical farce. But the unhappy not eat, if they were eating had a great hurry to
see. Probably his clumsy hands could not remember how it carries food to the mouth. Rations
placed on the table, a servant was caught them and put in two baskets that had every poor behind
from his seat. Shortly afterwards, when real people and the greatness left the room, out those
with her basket, and the chambers of the pastries were waiting innkeepers Madrid or other unique
merchants to buy everything for a few dollars.

The duration of the food, the gracious spectators did not stop his
talk talkative.

Mary Egyptian, would have liked to be down, with great dress tail, passing trays.


The pair vanished round a corner that I knew ended in a cul-de-sac, so extinguishing my lamp,
I sat down on a fallen column and waited till I should see their light reappear, when I proposed
to effect my retreat. Whilst I sat thus, thinking on many things and, to tell the truth, very
depressed in mind, I heard a sound as of some one moving and instantly struck a match. The
light of it fell full upon the face of a man whom I recognized at once as a body-servant of
the prince Joshua, though whether he was passing me toward the pair or returning from their
direction I could not be sure.

"What are you doing here?" I asked.

"What is that to you, Physician?" he answered.

Then the match burnt out, and before I could light another he had vanished, like a snake into
a stone wall.

My first impulse was to warn Maqueda and Oliver that they were being watched, but reflecting
that the business was awkward, and that the spy would doubtless have given over his task for
this day, I left it alone, and went down to the Tomb of the Kings to help Higgs. Just afterwards
Quick came on duty, long before his time, the fact being that he had no confidence in the Professor
as a director of mining operations. When he appeared Higgs and I retreated from that close
and filthy tunnel, and, by way of recreation, put in an hour or so at the cataloguing and archæological
research in which his soul delighted.

"If only we could get all this lot out of Mur," he said, with a sweep of his hand, "we should
be the most famous men in Europe for at least three days, and rich into the bargain."

"Ptolemy," I answered, "we shall be fortunate if we get ourselves alive out of Mur, let alone
these bones and ancient treasures," and I told him what I had seen that evening.

His fat and kindly face grew anxious.

"Ah!" he said. "Well, I don't blame him; should probably do the same myself if I got the chance,
and so would you--if you were twenty years younger. No, I don't blame him, or her either, for
the fact is that although their race, education, and circumstances are so different, they are
one of Nature's pairs, and while they are alive nothing will keep them apart. You might as
well expect a magnet and a bit of iron to remain separate on a sheet of notepaper. Moreover,
they give themselves away, as people in that state always do. The pursuit of archæology has
its dangers, but it is a jolly sight safer than that of woman, though it did land me in a den
of lions. What's going to happen, old fellow?"

"Can't say, but I think it very probable that Oliver will be murdered, and that we shall follow
the same road, or, if we are lucky, be only bundled out of Mur. Well, it's time for dinner;
if I get a chance I will give them a hint."

So we made our way to the old temple in the great cave, where we kept our stores and Oliver
had his headquarters. Here we found him waiting for us and our meal ready, for food was always
brought to us by the palace servants. When we had eaten and these men had cleared away, we
lit our pipes and fed the dog Pharaoh upon the scraps that had been reserved for him. Then
I told Oliver about the spy whom I had caught tracking him and Maqueda.

"Well, what of it?" he said, colouring in his tell-tale fashion; "she only took me to see what
she believed to be an ancient inscription on a column in that northern aisle."

"Then she'd have done better to take me, my boy," said Higgs. "What was the character like?"

"Don't know," he answered guiltily. "She could not find it again."

An awkward silence followed, which I broke.

"Oliver," I said, "I don't think you ought to go on sleeping here alone. You have too many
enemies in this place."

"Rubbish," he answered, "though it's true Pharaoh seemed uneasy last night, and that once I
woke up and thought I heard footsteps in the court outside. I set them down to ghosts, in which
I have almost come to believe in this haunted place, and went to sleep again."

"Ghosts be blowed!" said Higgs vulgarly, "if there were such things I have slept with too many
mummies not to see them. That confounded Joshua is the wizard who raises your ghosts. Look
here, old boy," he added, "let me camp with you to-night, since Quick must be in the tunnel,
and Adams has to sleep outside in case he is wanted on the army business."

"Not a bit of it," he answered; "you know you are too asthmatical to get a wink in this atmosphere.
I won't hear of such a thing."

"Then come and sleep with us in the guest-house."

"Can't be done; the Sergeant has got a very nasty job down there about one o'clock, and I promised
to be handy in case he calls me up," and he pointed to the portable field telephone that fortunately
we had brought with us from England, which was fixed closed by, adding, "if only that silly
thing had another few hundred yards of wire, I'd come; but, you see, it hasn't and I must be
in touch with the work."

At this moment the bell tinkled, and Orme made a jump for the receiver through which for the
next five minutes he was engaged in giving rapid and to us quite unintelligible directions.

"There you are," he said, when he had replaced the mouthpiece on its hook, "if I hadn't been
here they would probably have had the roof of the tunnel down and killed some people. No, no;
I can't leave that receiver unless I go back to the mine, which I am too tired to do. However,
don't you fret. With a pistol, a telephone, and Pharaoh I'm safe enough. And now, good night;
you fellows had better be getting home as I must be up early to-morrow and want to sleep while
I can."

On the following morning about five o'clock Higgs and I were awakened by some one knocking
at our door. I rose and opened it, whereon in walked Quick, a grim and grimy figure, for, as
his soaked clothes and soiled face told us, he had but just left his work in the mine.

"Captain wants to see you as soon as possible, gentlemen," he said.

"What's the matter, Sergeant?" asked Higgs, as we got into our garments.

"You'll see for yourself presently, Professor," was the laconic reply, nor could we get anything
more out of him.

Five minutes later we were advancing at a run through the dense darkness of the underground
city, each of us carrying a lamp. I reached the ruins of the old temple first, for Quick seemed
very tired and lagged behind, and in that atmosphere Higgs was scant of breath and could not
travel fast. At the doorway of the place where he slept stood the tall form of Oliver holding
a lamp aloft. Evidently he was waiting for us. By his side sat the big yellow dog, Pharaoh,
that, when he smelt us, gambolled forward, wagging his tail in greeting.

"Come here," said Orme, in a low and solemn voice, "I have something to show you," and he led
the way into the priest's chamber, or sanctuary, whatever it may have been, where he slept
upon a rough, native-made bedstead. At the doorway he halted, lowered the lamp he held, and
pointed to something dark on the floor to the right of his bedstead, saying, "Look!"

There lay a dead man, and by his side a great knife that evidently had fallen from his hand.
At the first glance we recognised the face which, by the way, was singularly peaceful, as though
it were that of one plunged in deep sleep. This seemed odd, since the throat below was literally
torn out.

"Shadrach!" we said, with one voice.

Shadrach it was; Shadrach, our former guide, who had betrayed us; Shadrach who, to save his
own life, had shown us how to rescue Higgs, and for that service been pardoned, as I think
I mentioned. Shadrach and no other!

"Pussy seems to have been on the prowl and to have met a dog," remarked Quick.

"Do you understand what has happened?" asked Oliver, in a dry, hard voice. "Perhaps I had better
explain before anything is moved. Shadrach must have crept in here last night--I don't know
at what time, for I slept through it all--for purposes of his own. But he forgot his old enemy
Pharaoh, and Pharaoh killed him. See his throat? When Pharaoh bites he doesn't growl, and,
of course, Shadrach could say nothing, or, as he had dropped his knife, for the matter of that,
do anything either. When I was woke up about an hour ago by the telephone bell the dog was
fast asleep, for he is accustomed to that bell, with his head resting upon the body of Shadrach.
Now why did Shadrach come into my room at night with a drawn knife in his hand?"

"Doesn't seem a difficult question to answer," replied Higgs, in the high voice which was common
to him when excited. "He came here to murder you, and Pharaoh was too quick for him, that's
all. That dog was the cheapest purchase you ever made, friend Oliver."

"Yes," answered Orme, "he came here to murder me--you were right about the risk, after all--but
what I wonder is, who sent him?"

"And so you may go on wondering for the rest of your life, Captain," exclaimed Quick. "Still,
I think we might guess if we tried."

Then news of what had happened was sent to the palace, and within little over an hour Maqueda
arrived, accompanied by Joshua and several other members of her Council. When she saw and understood
everything she was horrified, and sternly asked Joshua what he knew of this business. Of course,
he proved to be completely innocent, and had not the slightest idea of who had set the murderer
on to work this deed of darkness. Nor had anybody else, the general suggestion being that Shadrach
had attempted it out of revenge, and met with the due reward of his crime.

Only that day poor Pharaoh was poisoned. Well, he had done his work, and his memory is blessed.

CHAPTER XV

SERGEANT QUICK HAS A PRESENTIMENT

From this time forward all of us, and especially Oliver, were guarded night and day by picked
men who it was believed could not be corrupted. As a consequence, the Tsar of Russia scarcely
leads a life more irksome than ours became at Mur. Of privacy there was none left to us, since
sentries and detectives lurked at every corner, while tasters were obliged to eat of each dish
and drink from each cup before it touched our lips, lest our fate should be that of Pharaoh,
whose loss we mourned as much as though the poor dog had been some beloved human being.

Most of all was it irksome, I think, to Oliver and Maqueda, whose opportunities of meeting
were much curtailed by the exigencies of this rigid espionage. Who can murmur sweet nothings
to his adored when two soldiers armed to the teeth have been instructed never to let him out
of their sight? Particularly is this so if the adored happens to be the ruler of those soldiers
to whom the person guarded has no right to be making himself agreeable. For when off duty even
the most faithful guardians are apt to talk. Of course, the result was that the pair took risks
which did not escape observation. Indeed, their intimate relations became a matter of gossip
throughout the land.

Still, annoying as they might be, these precautions succeeded, for none of us were poisoned
or got our throats cut, although we were constantly the victims of mysterious accidents. Thus,
a heavy rock rolled down upon us when we sat together one evening upon the hill-side, and a
flight of arrows passed between us while we were riding along the edge of a thicket, by one
of which Higgs's horse was killed. Only when the mountain and the thicket were searched no
one could be found. Moreover, a great plot against us was discovered in which some of the lords
and priests were implicated, but such was the state of feeling in the country that, beyond
warning them privately that their machinations were known, Maqueda did not dare to take proceedings
against these men.

A little later on things mended so far as we were concerned, for the following reason: One
day two shepherds arrived at the palace with some of their companions, saying that they had
news to communicate. On being questioned, these peasants averred that while they were herding
their goats upon the western cliffs many miles away, suddenly on the top of the hills appeared
a body of fifteen Fung, who bound and blindfolded them, telling them in mocking language to
take a message to the Council and to the white men.

This was the message: That they had better make haste to destroy the god Harmac, since otherwise
his head would move to Mur according to the prophecy, and that when it did so, the Fung would
follow as they knew how to do. Then they set the two men on a rock where they could be seen,
and on the following morning were in fact found by some of their fellows, those who accompanied
them to the Court and corroborated this story.

Of course the matter was duly investigated, but as I know, for I went with the search party,
when we got to the place no trace of the Fung could be found, except one of their spears, of
which the handle had been driven into the earth and the blade pointed toward Mur, evidently
in threat or defiance. No other token of them remained, for, as it happened, a heavy rain had
fallen and obliterated their footprints, which in any case must have been faint on this rocky
ground.

Notwithstanding the most diligent search by skilled men, their mode of approach and retreat
remained a mystery, as, indeed, it does to this day. The only places where it was supposed
to be possible to scale the precipice of Mur were watched continually, so that they could have
climbed up by none of these. The inference was, therefore, that the Fung had discovered some
unknown path, and, if fifteen men could climb that path, why not fifteen thousand!

Only, where was this path? In vain were great rewards in land and honours offered to him who
should discover it, for although such discoveries were continually reported, on investigation
these were found to be inventions or mares' nests. Nothing but a bird could have travelled
by such roads.

Then at last we saw the Abati thoroughly frightened, for, with additions, the story soon passed
from mouth to mouth till the whole people talked of nothing else. It was as though we English
learned that a huge foreign army had suddenly landed on our shores and, having cut the wires
and seized the railways, was marching upon London. The effect of such tidings upon a nation
that always believed invasion to be impossible may easily be imagined, only I hope that we
should take them better than did the Abati.

Their swagger, their self-confidence, their talk about the "rocky walls of Mur," evaporated
in an hour. Now it was only of the disciplined and terrible regiments of the Fung, among whom
every man was trained to war, and of what would happen to them, the civilized and domesticated
Abati, a peace-loving people who rightly enough, as they declared, had refused all martial
burdens, should these regiments suddenly appear in their midst. They cried out that they were
betrayed--they clamoured for the blood of certain of the Councillors. That carpet knight, Joshua,
lost popularity for a while, while Maqueda, who was known always to have been in favour of
conscription and perfect readiness to repel attack, gained what he had lost.

Leaving their farms, they crowded together into the towns and villages, where they made what
in South Africa are called laagers. Religion, which practically had been dead among them, for
they retained but few traces of the Jewish faith if, indeed, they had ever really practised
it, became the craze of the hour. Priests were at a premium; sheep and cattle were sacrificed;
it was even said that, after the fashion of their foes the Fung, some human beings shared the
same fate. At any rate the Almighty was importuned hourly to destroy the hated Fung and to
protect His people--the Abati--from the results of their own base selfishness and cowardly neglect.

Well, the world has seen such exhibitions before to-day, and will doubtless see more of them
in the instance of greater peoples who allow luxury and pleasure-seeking to sap their strength
and manhood.

The upshot of it all was that the Abati became obsessed with the saying of the Fung scouts
to the shepherds, which, after all, was but a repetition of that of their envoys delivered
to the Council a little while before: that they should hasten to destroy the idol Harmac, lest
he should move himself to Mur. Her husband begged was
collected, the more she "had enough to do so early to bed ...». Alas, the Dona Tula gathering
and you talk that talk of Fish and Serafinita, habíanle set their head like a drum ... Then
D. Manuel was able to give headaches to the rooster of the Passion the mantra of his regrets.
It was already so their calamities that Job would stay very small.

- Finally, the daughter, lie down to rest from all this drivel ... Needs to be heard with patience
Fish all you want to tell us, because ... you see what he says.

We are your shoulder to cry on, and here comes the poor to relieve their pains.

Rosalie finally did what her husband told. Lifted the cloth, were turned off lights, and Paquito
manager to give your dad taking drugs later, the head of the illustrious
lady sought rest on the pillows.

The dream, however, came later, after a long period of brooding failure.

XXIX

The

silver candlesticks ... the risk that her husband had discovered early on that a trip to Peñaranda
de Bracamonte ... a way to avoid this ... Mr. Fish, the ideal ... Oh, what a man so extraordinary
and fascinating! What elevation view, what superiority! ... To say that he was capable, if he
left, to organize an administrative system with eighty and four Directorates-General, is that
I could give him this sovereign head ... And what delicacy and refinement of manners, which
chivalrous generosity! ... Surely, if it looked at any choke, would come to help her with that
fish delicacy gallant Bringas neither knew nor had ever shown at any time, even when he was her
suitor, or in the days of the honeymoon, spent in Navan ... What had been so ordinary dye
his whole life long! Until the people chosen for the inauguration was horribly marriage uneducated,
unfriendly and contrary to any notion of good taste ... Well she remembered the lady of that lugarón
of the inn in which there was not a comfortable chair to sit on, from the smell to cattle and
straw, this wine knowing fish and chops knowing those leather ... Then the pedestrian Bringas
did not speak more than vulgar things. In Madrid, the day before marriage, was not a man to spend
six rooms in a bouquet of roses to smell ... You Navalcarnero had given a botijito, and had to walk
along the grain, allowing pick poppies that loses its leaves at once. She liked very little
of the field and the only thing I would Indeed hunting was tolerable, but Bringas was afraid of
the shots, and having been in Once the mayor VENATORIA campaign, nearly killed the mayor himself.
He was a man of such poor aim that it would not even the wind ... Back in Madrid, had begun
that Unregulated married life, oppressed, made up of hardships and hypocrisies, a comedy domestic
day and night, between the methodical and routine running of the pennies and hours. She submitted
a vulgar man, had come to learn their role and represented cold like a machine without realizing
what he did. Doll that made the mother of four children one of whom died in infancy. She loved
them dearly, and thank this, the deep appreciation grew that the doll had come to inspire ...
Wanted that had lived and the health, the faithful wife would follow him, making his role with
that skill he had given many years of hypocrisy. But for himself ardently longed more than
life and salad; wanted some, a little even he had ever had, freedom, in and out, if only because
figuratively, in that narrow embarrassing. Because I was in earnest, envied the beggars, as these,
the bulk that are enjoying it freely, as she ...

Venciola sleep. Not even felt the weight of the mattress leaning Bringas. Upon awakening, the first
thought of the illustrious lady was for prisoners chandeliers.

- What are you feeling?

- I think - said the husband with a deep sigh - not as good as I expected.

I awake since four. I've heard every hour, half and quarter. Itches, pain, and the idea of ​​receiving
the light in your eyes I am horrified.

Steps in the morning in great uncertainty until the doctor came. This was discouraged and somewhat
perplexed, hesitating on the medical reasons that explain the decline of poor disease Thiers.
Was it a result of some excess in the food ...? Was it an effect of belladonna and disappear attenuating
the medication? Was it ...? In a word, convenient return to rest, not impatient, safeguard
eyes absolutely light, and since no bear to stay in bed, the chair should not move or deal with
anything or have gathering in the room ... The sadness with my good friend heard these requirements
is not for said. See, see? - Told his wife excessively nose swelling -. Behold what bags to you,
to want to heal in two days. I've been telling you, and you ... If you a boy ...

Abatidísimo, the unfortunate man did not say a word.

The whole day was in the chair, hands folded, turning thumbs on each other. His wife and son
comforted with loving words, the more he did not give a party, and how that pain was exacerbated
verbal palliatives. In the afternoon, the intelligent fish, talking to Rosalie's case, said
with much tact:

- I do not know how the first day you did not call an eye doctor ... This gentleman (for the doctor)
seems to me that I understand both eyes like a mole.

- So I said I - the lady replied, trying to express in eloquent grimace and lift shoulder the
squalor of her husband -. But you Vayalar Bringas with these ideas. Says no, the eye doctors
will not take more than money ... Not that he lacked. Has its economies ... but did not decide
to spend it for their health but in the last moment, when disease
and say: "Your money or your sight."

Very funny he did to D. Manuel picturesque interpretation of the greed of his friend and talking
to him later, he suggested the idea to consult a specialist in diseases eyes. This time the patient
received no bad indication.

Discouraged and impatient, felt that their economies well worth a ray of light, only saying: "Let
what you want to. "

At night, Milagros was to accompany his fellow in rags. Here, as there were no seen from the
previous week, I thought already solved the financial problem that put the Marchioness so distressed
in the last days of June. Frankly, I believed him. But both Rosalia as having the honor of writing
these lines, he noted with surprise that the aristocrat's face shone not happy those flashes of
expression that are safe Recently victory. Indeed, Telleria soon declare their little affair was
not solved but postponed.

By dint of entreaties he obtained an extension until October 10. Ran July 7, and only took
three days. For all the saints in heaven, do you love her friend, begged him ...!

Rosalie put her finger in her mouth, recommending discretion. Was around Isabelita and this girl
had the ugly habit of having everything he heard.

It was a repeater, and its presence was forced to be very careful,
because then he could not wait to go with the story to his dad.

Days before he had the good lord made you laugh with this accusation
innocent "Dad, says D. Manuel I go out to you ... in which I keep
all the rooms they give me.

"

XXX

Which earned him an affectionate squeeze and a kiss from his dad wanted.

And that night, feeling it enter her room, called her and sat on his
lap.

"Does your Mom ...?».

- It's in the Saleta with Marquise - said the girl, who spoke with clarity and speed -. He told me to
come back here. The Marquise was crying because we are 7.

"We are 7 - had said the Pipaón Milagros, clasping her hands and made a shame - and if by day
10 I could not meet ...! I will give a stroke ... You do not know how my head. "

It had been locked, and the solitude of the room, without light, because the master of the house
was frantic favor of obscurantism in all its manifestations, the
lady sore expatiated at home and squandered the treasure of your pain,
manifesting in a thousand ways to florida inspiration elegiac ...
The day he was unfriendly.

He liked the night to prey upon the contemplation of his sentence. Looking at the stars, she
thought she felt inexplicable comfort ... Stars like that promised
something flattering, or launched into the interior of his soul a
spark metal ... It is very pilgrim kinship with gold stars coined
... The poor do not had no hope in anything or anyone but his girlfriend
... She had received save her ... How?

That really could not say. Had appeared to him in dreams that angelic smile and one very distinguished
air ...

"For Mary - said Rosalie - you do not illusions, dear, I can not not I can, I can not ...».

- Yes you can, yes you can - Milagros said, with an insistence that exerted a certain fascination
in the minds of the other -. Just how ... The thing is not excessive. I was able to collect
five R $: I was only five thousand. Bringas ...

- I do not know what words I say to you that it is easier for us to drink all the water from
the sea.

- I forgot to tell you that I have here the letter from my manager,
ensuring that 15 to 20 ... I do not know what could best guarantee.

Also, do not miss a formal obligation ... If this does not is fixed, I can not bear the shame
that awaits me ... For sure I will find and find me dead. Sometimes I say, "Do not be a cataclysm,
an earthquake or anything like that before Day 10?. I think the revolution, and believe you ...
I wish there was something ... I just a week and shooting spree, during which people can not
leave the street ... But and that, dear.

Do you know that the generals Serrano, Dulce y Caballero de Rodas them as prisoners, and say
they will send to the Canaries and also banish the Duke of Montpensier? With these precautions alas,
no one to lift the rooster. "

- What Canary? In the fifth hell! - Pipaón cried with joy -. I like that, that put them away,
and no more shocks. That now conspire.

What will my child also give air ...? I'll tell Bringas, this is like gold to him. He ran the
lady to take her husband the happy news, and this rejoiced as if he dropped the lottery (so
no, but a little less), celebrating the fact with the most ardent expressions.

"Well, well, well. That is to govern. Then they say that Ibrahim Claret is gone, what is it more
alert than ever, very great rascals. Hey, now conspiring against the best of the Queens ... With
that in the shadow? Bravest man that Council President ...! It would give me two tight hugs ...
A Canary with them, as it were, to overseas! And if you lose the boat that takes the better
... I can not help, I feel like going out to the terrace and give
a live the Queen! very strong, very strong.

"

Very nearly do so as I said. A while later, Milagros flattered to talk dynastic passion picturesque
Bringas, and asked for the generals, not a death but hundred deaths,
and to all who conspire the scaffold.

With these things are very encouraged the patient, but alas, the next day was to be the darkest
in his life. Poor sir, after having spent the night very restless morning observed a loss almost
absolute power to see. The doctor was so stunned that not even hit the formulas elusive that they
use when they want to confess up. But man of conscience, finally learned to abdicate its authority
before producing greater evils, saying: "We must you will see an eye doctor. You see you Golfín.
"

D. Francisco believed that the sky was falling over. No doubt his
illness was serious.

Overcome by greed fear, not thought to repair the opinion of your
doctor and the whole family.

Shocked everyone in the prodigious distrusted most famous science
curator of eyes that had Spain.

Remembered not to delay the consultation or a day or an hour.

Ah, Golfín! ... Bringas knew him. He was a man of which there were
wonders.

Many blind had evicted view. In South America and North had won big bucks, and Spain is not
neglected even in this. Go ant!

To beat a waterfall to the Marquis Castro had taken eighteen thousand real, and for care of
a child's conjunctivitis cucurbit, had an account such that the Cucurbits, to pay, insisted for six
years. "But in the end, God help us, and go out with either of this. Heal me on this Golfín,
and let me in the pure leather ...».

Discurriose then whether the patient would go to consultation or
would come home to an eye doctor, deciding Bringas at first, it was
the cheapest.

"Paquito and I get into a car, and there ...».

- No, you're not to go out. He will come.

- It does not come, woman. These potentates of science does not move from their home rather
than rulers or people visiting a lot of money.

- I tell you to come. I'm going down. His Majesty will put four letters ...

- That sounds very wise.

And if the Lady wants to add that this is a poor ... better better. God bless you, honey.

And he came and saw Ridley, and his rough kindness infundiole encouragement and hope began to lose.
The ailment was not serious, but the healing would be slow. "Patience, lots of patience, and
exact compliance, escrupulosísimo what I prescribe. There is a bit of conjunctivitis, it is necessary
to combat readiness and energy. "

Poor, miserable Bringas! For the moment, bedding, diet, quiet, atropine.

Inaugurose with this sad life for the unfortunate Thiers.

Earned no longer take off band, then just drop saw, and gave him much pain, he turned to darkness,
in which His only consolation was to remember the words of Ridley and that heavenly promise
that farewell: "You see, you will see it has ever seen," meaning weight and fullness precious
faculty believe above all others of our body. See! ... But When God Almighty, when, Santa Lucia
blessed? Patience was not lacking in the poor man in that situation eagerly bent their minds to religious
contemplation and spent part of the lonely hours praying. His wife never left him, but when any
unwelcome visit forced him to, when afflicted with air entering Miracles, and calling apart,
regaled me with a couple of tears and caresses flattering ... Was no longer a Bathrooms think, unless
Bringas not be restored for the first days of August, which did not seem likely.

Fish was the most constant friends of the honoree that tribulation family. One afternoon he
could speak alone with Rosalie in Gasparini, she said: "We are now entering an era difficulties,
which I do not know how we get out. " To which D. Manuel said with a burst Quixotic, offering
to help in all those difficulties of any kind were. This noble thought entered the mind of
the lady as a ray of heavenly light. He could have some support in
the storms that will bring further life.

Had already behind it a place of retreat, a reserve for any critical event ... And looked around
If an arm, a shield ... Life offered flatter, more open ... "I'll look - I thought - that this
friendship and I honestly do not conflict. "

XXXI

Seeing her husband was so down and bloodied in Rosalia budded affection of other times; and the
esteem in which he always had depurábase of capricious malevolence to resurface large and cordial,
touching on reverence. Entertained in the vain thought the good lady your life partner for many
years, which, if satisfaction had not provided self-love very much alive, had given no trouble.
He remembered then that there prosaic marriage and quiet, full of
simple pleasures shortages and, if isolation seemed of little value,
valued in total memory offered a nice set. Al Bringas side had not
enjoyed it or amenities, or representation, nor pleasures, nor greatness,
and estate, none of which was his by right of its beauty and its being
genuinely aristocratic, but instead, how calm and how sweet the days
passed without choking or traps, or creditors! Do not owe anything
to anyone was the great principle of the man walking, and he was so
corny as honest and as happy as wretches. Surely if she had Fish hit
a man would be in position brighter ... "But God knows - thought very
wisely - the agonies that go in those houses where they always spent
more than have. That must look closely and pass it and feel it to
know it well. "

This is Rosalie, with the aggravation of her husband's
bad morally and mentally approaching to him, tightening the bonds
of matrimony. The attraction of misery wrought this miracle, and the
habit of sharing all the quota of life, and in bad as in happy. And
with what zeal he cared! What his hands to heal so subtle! With what
grace and Art poured the balm of tender words on the spirit of the
sick! He was so grateful, that never ceased to praise God for the
good they gave him, inspiring fellow that wonderful sense of conjugal
duty. Sweetened intimate joys and penetrated his sentence of religious
zeal, believed that the care of his wife were faithful expression
of care divine. Only when she was killed, because of his duties, left
her side; and each time he called for the smallest thing, begging
him to shorten as much as possible their occupations to devote to it. But how could we be sure that the date, or the place of the ceremony, had
not been changed at the last moment? Supposing, for instance, that it was held, not in the
town, as arranged, but in the courts of the idol, and that the fearful activities of the fiery
agent which we were about to wake to life should sweep the celebrants into nothingness.

The thought made me turn cold, and yet the deed must be done; Roderick must take his chance.
And if all were well, and he escaped that danger, were there not worse behind? Think of him,
a Christian man, the husband of a savage woman who worshipped a stone image with a lion's head,
bound to her and her tribe, a state prisoner, trebly guarded, whom, so far as I could see,
there would be no hope of rescuing. It was awful. Then there were other complications. If the
plan succeeded and the idol was destroyed, my own belief was that the Fung must thereby be
exasperated. Evidently they knew some road into this stronghold. It would be used. They would
pour their thousands up it, a general massacre would follow, of which, justly, we should be
the first victims.

I reached the chamber where Oliver sat brooding alone, for Japhet was patrolling the line.

"I am not happy about Maqueda, Doctor," he said to me. "I am afraid there is something in that
story. She wanted to be with us; indeed, she begged to be allowed to come almost with tears.
But I wouldn't have it, since accidents may always happen; the vibration might shake in the
roof or something; in fact, I don't think you should be here. Why don't you go away and leave me?"

I answered that nothing would induce me to do so, for such a job should not be left to one man.

"No, you're right," he said; "I might faint or lose my head or anything. I wish now that we
had arranged to send the spark from the palace, which perhaps we might have done by joining
the telephone wire on to the others. But, to tell you the truth, I'm afraid of the batteries.
The cells are new but very weak, for time and the climate have affected them, and I thought
it possible the extra difference might make the difference and that they would fail to work.
That's why I fixed this as the firing point. Hullo, there's the bell. What have they got to say?"

I snatched the receiver, and presently heard the cheerful voice of Higgs announcing that they
had arrived safely in the little anteroom to Maqueda's private apartments.

"The palace seems very empty," he added; "we only met one sentry, for I think that everybody
else, except Maqueda and a few of her ladies, have cleared out, being afraid lest rocks should
fall on them when the explosion occurs."

"Did the man say so?" I asked of Higgs.

"Yes, something of that sort; also he wanted to forbid us to come here, saying that it was
against the Prince Joshua's orders that we Gentiles should approach the private apartments
of the Child of Kings. Well, we soon settled that, and he bolted. Where to? Oh! I don't know;
to report, he said."

"How's Quick?" I asked.

"Much the same as usual. In fact, he is saying his prayers in the corner, looking like a melancholy
brigand with rifles, revolvers, and knives stuck all over him. I wish he wouldn't say his prayers,"
added Higgs, and his voice reached me in an indignant squeak; "it makes me feel uncomfortable,
as though I ought to join him. But not having been brought up a Dissenter or a Moslem, I can't
pray in public as he does. Hullo! Wait a minute, will you?"

Then followed a longish pause, and after it Higgs's voice again.

"It's all right," it said. "Only one of Maqueda's ladies who had heard us and come to see who
we were. When she learns I expect she will join us here, as the girl says she's nervous and
can't sleep."

Higgs proved right in his anticipations, for in about ten minutes we were rung up again, this
time by Maqueda herself, whereon I handed the receiver to Oliver and retired to the other end
of the room.

Nor, to tell the truth, was I sorry for the interruption, since it cheered up Oliver and helped
to pass the time.

The next thing worth telling that happened was that, an hour or more later, Japhet arrived,
looking very frightened. We asked him our usual question: if anything was wrong with the wires.
With a groan he answered "No," the wires seemed all right, but he had met a ghost.

"What ghost, you donkey?" I said.

"The ghost of one of the dead kings, O Physician, yonder in the burial cave. It was he with
the bent bones who sits in the farthest chair. Only he had put some flesh on his bones, and
I tell you he looked fearful, a very fierce man, or rather ghost."

"Indeed, and did he say anything to you, Japhet?"

"Oh! yes, plenty, O Physician, only I could not understand it all, because his language was
somewhat different to mine, and he spat out his words as a green log spits out sparks. I think
that he asked me, however, how my miserable people dared to destroy his god, Harmac. I answered
that I was only a servant and did not know, adding that he should put his questions to you."

"And what did he say to that, Japhet?"

"I think he said that Harmac would come to Mur and settle his account with the Abati, and that
the foreign men would be wise to fly fast and far. That's all I understood; ask me no more,
who would not return into that cave to be made a prince."

"He's got hold of what Barung's envoys told us," said Oliver, indifferently, "and no wonder,
this place is enough to make anybody see ghosts. I'll repeat it to Maqueda; it will amuse her."

"I wouldn't if I were you," I answered, "for it isn't exactly a cheerful yarn, and perhaps
she's afraid of ghosts too. Also," and I pointed to the watch that lay on the table beside
the batteries, "it is five minutes to ten."

Oh! that last five minutes! It seemed as many centuries. Like stone statues we sat, each of
us lost in his own thoughts, though for my part the power of clear thinking appeared to have
left me. Visions of a sort flowed over my mind without sinking into it, as water flows over
marble. All I could do was fix my eyes on the face of that watch, of which in the flickering
lamp-light the second-hand seemed to my excited fancy to grow enormous and jump from one side
of the room to the other.

Orme began to count aloud. "One, two, three, four, five--now!" and almost simultaneously he
touched the knob first of one battery and next of the other. Before his finger pressed the
left-hand knob I felt the solid rock beneath us surge--no other word conveys its movement.
Then the great stone cross-piece, weighing several tons, that was set as a transom above the
tall door of our room, dislodged itself, and fell quite gently into the doorway, which it completely
blocked.

Other rocks fell also at a distance, making a great noise, and somehow I found myself on the
ground, my stool had slid away from me. Next followed a muffled, awful roar, and with it came
a blast of wind blowing where wind never blew before since the beginning of the world, that
with a terrible wailing howled itself to silence in the thousand recesses of the cave city.
As it passed our lamps went out. Lastly, quite a minute later I should think, there was a thud,
as though something of enormous weight had fallen on the surface of the earth far above us.

Then all was as it had been; all was darkness and utter quietude.

"Well, that's over," said Oliver, in a strained voice which sounded very small and far away
through that thick darkness; "all over for good or ill. I needn't have been anxious; the first
battery was strong enough, for I felt the mine spring as I touched the second. I wonder," he
went on, as though speaking to himself, "what amount of damage nearly a ton and a half of that
awful azo-imide compound has done to the old sphinx. According to my calculations it ought
to have been enough to break the thing up, if we could have spread the charge more. But, as
it is, I am by no means certain. It may only have driven a hole in its bulk, especially if
there were hollows through which the gases could run. Well, with luck, we may know more about
it later. Strike a match, Adams, and light those lamps. Why, what's that? Listen!"

As he spoke, from somewhere came a series of tiny noises, that, though they were so faint and
small, suggested rifles fired at a great distance. Crack, crack, crack! went the infinitesimal
noises.

I groped about, and finding the receiver of the field telephone, set it to my ear. In an instant
all grew plain to me. Guns were being fired near the other end of the wire, and the transmitter
was sending us the sound of them. Very faintly but with distinctness I could hear Higgs's high
voice saying, "Look out, Sergeant, there's another rush coming!" and Quick answering, "Shoot
low, Professor; for the Lord's sake shoot low. You are empty, sir. Load up, load up! Here's
a clip of cartridges. Don't fire too fast. Ah! that devil got me, but I've got him; he'll never
throw another spear."

"They are being attacked!" I exclaimed. "Quick is wounded. Now Maqueda is talking to you. She
says, 'Oliver, come! Joshua's men assail me. Oliver, come!'"

Then followed a great sound of shouting answered by more shots, and just as Orme snatched the
receiver from my hand the wire went dead. In vain he called down it in an agonized voice. As
well might he have addressed the planet Saturn.

"The wire's cut," he exclaimed, dashing down the receiver and seizing the lantern which Japhet
had just succeeded in re-lighting; "come on, there's murder being done," and he sprang to the
doorway, only to stagger back again from the great stone with which it was blocked.

"Good God!" he screamed, "we're shut in. How can we get out? How can we get out?" and he began
to run round and round the room, and even to spring at the walls like a frightened cat. Thrice
he sprang, striving to climb to the coping, for the place had no roof, each time falling back,
since it was too high for him to grasp. I caught him round the middle, and held him by main
force, although he struck at me.

"Be quiet," I said; "do you want to kill yourself? You will be no good dead or maimed. Let
me think."

Meanwhile Japhet was acting on his own account, for he, too, had heard the tiny, ominous sounds
given out by the telephone and guessed their purport. First he ran to the massive transom that
blocked the doorway and pushed. It was useless; not even an elephant could have stirred it.
Then he stepped back, examining it carefully.

"I think it can be climbed, Physician," he said. "Help me now," and he motioned to me to take
one end of the heavy table on which the batteries stood. We dragged it to the doorway, and,
seeing his purpose, Oliver jumped on to it with him. Then at Japhet's direction, while I supported
the table to prevent its oversetting, Orme rested his forehead against the stone, making what
schoolboy's call "a back," up which the mountaineer climbed actively until he stood upon his
shoulders, and by stretching himself was able to grasp the end of the fallen transom. Next,
while I held up the lamp to give him light, he gripped the roughnesses of the hewn stone with
his toes, and in a few moments was upon the coping of the wall, twenty feet or more above the
floor line.

The rest was comparatively easy, for taking off his linen robe, Japhet knotted it once or twice,
and let it down to us. By the help of this improvised rope, with Orme supporting me beneath,
I, too, was dragged up to the coping of the wall. Then both of us pulled up Oliver, who, without
a word, swung himself over the wall, hanging to Japhet's arms, and loosing his hold, dropped
to the ground on the farther side. Next came my turn. It was a long fall, and had not Oliver
caught me I think that I should have hurt myself. As it was, the breath was shaken out of me.
Lastly, Japhet swung himself down, landing lightly as a cat. He recited his poems, and listeners were inclined to regard as a holy
father, Dr. enlightened and blessed servant of God. He spoke without number and without rhyme,
and was afraid to hear it was a runaway tyke, without belief and without respect for anything.

The night following the morning when the conference took place between the Count and his mother,
Count, therefore he was moody, mixed very little in general conversation the gathering of Rosita.
He spoke a few words with her, spoke briefly with Ines, who was there, greeted the pundits,
and went to make his apart with Dona Beatriz which was apparently
longer and more intimate than ever.

Don Braulio wine that night and saw the addition to the usual serenity.

The

gatherings usually lasted until about two, but don Braulio and ladies used leave before one o'clock.
So they did that night.

The Count of Alhedín, though he had won more chat, did not dare to
leave when it was Dona Beatriz, or immediately afterwards.

It was, entering the general run of those who were there until the last minute.

Conde did not speak, however, because he was preoccupied and imaginative.

The poet, usually was the one who made the biggest expense of words when they spoke the Count.
That night the poet was in vein. Talked a lot, say a thousand jocosidades, they are laughing, and
he was one who got drunk to talk and to be applauded, rather than drinking wine and spirits.
Arthur, perhaps without having taken a drink to his lips, he was
drunk.

So, seeing the Count silent, began to encourage him to speak, throwing some poorly disguised
barbs on the passions purely spiritual about how happy and peaceful they must live their husbands
whose wives inspire such passions, and on discussions semi-divine must have that and love.

-
God - the poet said - they unties the tongue forcibly gives them a richer language and perfect
that all known that befall mankind. The charms that have them to say they find no adequate expression
in the jargon that we understand.

How is possible that the speech itself that ask us to eat, drink and other necessities mechanics,
will be asked what such love and will ask?

Even the idea of ​​what they ask and get barely perceived by the
layman but a confused way back in the depths and dark of the soul,
there in the unfathomable depths of feeling with the sense of spirit,
forgetting about the other senses.

Arthur was always pompous and ironic phrases like that the high finished exclaiming

- What? Am I clear? Do I understand or not understand the metaphysics of love?

Count suppressed his disgust: it was given the hint when I could, and if he said any word was
by gravity, without following the joke.

- There are plenty of love - remained the poet - all sons of the nymphs: Amores terrestrial
they are what we usually know, but there are also one and only love, son Venus Urania, which, as
reported by the fabulist Aesop, and then many others have repeated poets and fabulous, live almost
forever in heaven. The immortal gods can not live without him. The presence of this Love is the
bliss of the gods. However, this Love is so good and pious, that hurt the misery and baseness of men,
calls occasionally licensed to Jupiter to descend to earth and bring us true consolation and reflecting
the light of glory. With difficulty Jupiter granted this license, to him and other immortals find
it extremely distressing lack of love, but when granting the license, that is one century at most, and soon,
Love descends between us, and leaving younger siblings whenever her shadowing, wounding vulgar souls,
uses his arrows little gold cross lofty and divine souls. Of these souls, and wounded, then rises
a stream of pure ideas, feelings and concepts near superhuman perfection,
they are like bright beacons placed at intervals in history, in the
dark and rough road that follows the wandering humanity.

Great news, gentlemen, great news! Correspondence not yet been published,
But be you for sure.

This has recently come Celestial love between us.

As much as it hides out of modesty, we have come to see him. It is full of grace and truth. His
glory dazzles us, but we are not blind.

Neither this parody of the most beautiful fable of Aesop Count put any comment.

The poet went more excited:

- Love the sky is hurt, as I said, some souls di cartello cousin, but after all while living here,
on earth, it always goes wandering and homeless. Choose the soul nobler, purer and more beautiful,
and makes his home there. This soul is usually a woman, often married. Imagine, what honor,
what distinction for the husband!

In the present case, the coming of Love in our godless and vicious Iron Age, the mansion Love,
its headquarters, as it were, is the soul of a married woman. Will gap and proud her husband?

Count
here and could not contain and conceal his anger. Repressed, however, the language, because
in full gathering seemed ridiculous and disgusting insults unleashed
on against scurrilous Arthur.

His eyes only denoted his anger. The poet looked as if to devour the fire in his eyes.

Rosita, by lightness of character, thoughtlessness, had been carried away from the talk poet and had laughed
at the jokes.

Arthur had been very funny, making a droll emphasis their expressions and accompanying them with
appropriate gesticulation. But Rosita came to, he warned how angry was the Count and, although
late, the poet silenced.

When the men left the gathering together and were in the street and
not hit Count to restrain his anger.

Lost all respect, began to roll all the wisdom, foresaw no result some, and turning to Arthur,
he said, if quietly, not so much that any of the other commentators could not hear:

- Know it to your government. Nor fables of Aesop, or with quotes from Plato, or in any way, however
indirect it may be, consent to forward that, in my presence, even when not I hereby put on solfa
my friendship with Beatriz. If I know you speak another Instead of it, which allude to it,
you make fun of her husband, she will feel much, but I'll break their
necks.

Count these words pronounced with such seriousness and energy, which Arthur could not slip taking
them to laugh. It was therefore necessary to answer seriously. And to answer it seriously,
being man who was respected, he had no recourse but to answer as answered

- I also feel very much - he said - but as I know, I know that I will continue putting in solfa
your friendship with Mrs Beatrice and I will continue making fun of credulity or cunning Don Braulio
whenever I please, that truce is excused or expected to grant me.

Rompámonos their necks in the act, as you wish.

A few more words intervened between the two. In the same pundits who were present elected either
the sponsors, who arranged a saber duel for tomorrow morning.

Sponsors, as people of opinion, made extraordinary efforts to cut the set friendly, polite plea becoming
the threat of Conde, and generous pledge not torn down by injunction of the poet, not to speak
ill of the love of heaven, but Conde and poet were so heated that
not even the first paved to play the role of supplicant, nor the second,
even if you begged on his knees, said he was able to shut up and not
to be cursing and mocking, as long as it was in the mood for, which
was often.

There was therefore forced to fight.

Already on the ground, received the Count the whole series of indiscretions that he had committed
to reach that end, which could not retreat, and from which all success
was bad.

Bad and if by chance dingy Arthur, who in life had taken a sword in his hand, struck him or
will pate; bad and cruel if he, who went every day to the weapons room, stabbed to taste the
poor poet, bad and Remal, now come out victorious, sometimes defeated, because of all Still,
the launch would be counterproductive. The launch was to not murmur of Dona Beatriz, and the Count
was set to make her name resound in the ten thousand trumpets of Fame.

But all this would have mattered on time and do not think so. Then there was another discretion
to be a saber.

The saber is given, and, as expected, received Arturo. For this, no injury care was. A month
of bed to heal enough for the poet.

Also fulfilled, as expected unless the other provision. It was not dog or cat Madrid not to speak
of the love of Count frantic by the wife of a clerk in the Treasury, of his crazy claim that it is
respected as angelic creature, semi-divine, and out of order and conditions that are used naturally,
and his singular affection towards her husband suffered, whose Count suffering had the impossible
determination that nobody would know or riese.

As Earl was not to challenge and kill all Madrid, particularly women, story of her affair with
Beatriz, imagined or real, but embroidered and discussed by all styles, circulated on talk shows,
cafes, casinos and theaters.

Beatriz's reputation was more hurt and that the body of Arthur, is the lance he had with him
the Earl of Alhedín gentleman, incapable, by persuasion and by the violence, to convince anyone
of his Platonism.

XVI

Among the many mistakes that I put the critics, nothing grieves me as much as you accuse me Women
always painting something rebellious and outrageous. "Who is the
author? - Say -.

Have not known but light women? Why not us in their stories to the honest and pure, which
always fulfilled his duty, which can and should serve as a model? " "This author - add - hates women
or has very bad opinion of them."

Against unjust accusation and I have to say that Clara, and Lucia, El Comendador Mendoza Irene
even less in The Doctor Faustino, without all those clothes and requirements can and should
make women an angelic creature. I will not deny, however, that Dona Blanca had sinned, and that
the ferocity of his penance was worse than the sin itself, that Pepita Jimenez was too flirtatious
and more passionate than reasonable, and not once in love knew contained, and as a gun shot
to the hair, that Mary, the immortal friend, is abandoned his passion as if I had not had free
will, as if he had been driven by an irresistible force, that was
interested Constancita, calculator and capricious, and Rosita did
not recognize human or divine law other than his whim, but in all
these women - no hold otherwise - are noticed in the midst of its
biggest losses, such yearning for the infinite love so sweet so tender
and passionate earnestness to the role of Savior and Redeemer to provide
a hint of bliss or happiness for man wanted, even at the expense of
his own condemnation, that effortlessly forgive seem sympathetic.

Moreover, I have to repeat here, but little of tired: a complete virtue you can not take action
that interested and has some dramatic, horrific monsters not imagine, persecutors of that virtue.

As
well accuse me, and certainly more so, poverty of imagination, should
not wonder I've had so far not enough verve to make up these monsters.

Matter, finally, be aware that, in these stories called secular novels, not characters should
be left as allegories of virtues or vices, but to take real life, where, typically, we see in
them a certain mix of good and bad qualities of vices and virtues, foibles starts sublime
and pathetic, which is what is the truth of the characters and what
gives the characters mock, if the author's style is able to both more
vivid and persistent reality that the characters historical.

In a poetic narrative that this is either novel, although the prose is written, a woman immaculate,
a saint, an angel, can not be mixed in the action but at the expense of others characters,
it is best to appear, without reaching the end of his robe to mud land, and end up vanishing into
the ether or up to the empyrean. His feet hardly be touch the ground.

In short, either way all is said, as I aspire to give aesthetic rules for writing novels, it
is certain that I, not because I think badly of women, but for lack of imagination and the misfortune
of not having found frequently holy - not saints either - in this sublunary world, I have to allow
me to introduce this story, true and simple, a new character, women too, who is far more than any
other of my heroes to be a paragon of perfection, but strongly involved in the events that I refer.

This
woman is a Marquesa. His title is not necessary to say. The call it by its name baptism, as if
we have the greatest intimacy with her. The call Elisa.

It was about three years had been widowed. Not yet reached age thirty. She had no children. It was delicious
and very elegant.

Not even his fiercest enemy was denied discreet, witty, fun and cheerful. Not even his most
determined dared to call worshipers beautiful, nor its detractors ever molested a description
of it ugly. Everyone unanimously the distinguished declared eminent degree. But what stood out
and why? It was not too high or too low or too white or too dark, or blonde or brunette. In
none of their there was nothing unusual features or markings. His nose was not long and flat,
not too regular or too irregular, her mouth was not big or girl, against her teeth could not
pitch anyone an epigram, but also, without exaggeration, could compare with the pearls. In
short: crushed and analyzed all the visible and tangible items of
Elisa, for example, hands, waist, feet, arms, throat and forehead,
there was nothing to draw attention or for good nor bad.

The symmetrical layout or order of all these parties had nothing either of singular. The Elisa
was unique in the set, but in a strange way. The expression his face was no doubt what was
notable, which, more remarkable, made her unforgettable for those who had seen her only once.

It
seems that his appearance was for all souls a force similar to that of the press stamping on the
bronze or gold, with indelible and firm drawing, the image that carries If the die. And Elisa
also made so that, yielding to all the demands of fashion voluble,
taking all its changes in dress and hairstyle, always kept unchanged,
immutable, the material traces of his person, as the figure in the
steel die is recorded.

Time itself seemed to have stood for it for eight years. At least Elisa required contemplate too closely
to notice some very slight on his face passing of time that had happened.

Contábanse such wonders about the seductive power of Elisa, that even the fools men invulnerable
and most precious love feared if they were to treat it a lot.

It was assumed frenzied passion that had inspired, stubborn, deep and lasting, and that she,
or had remained insensitive, or had yielded for an instant a fleeting sympathy, a hallucination
momentary before mastering his heart had vanished as a dream.

If you had raised an idol on the altar of his mind, he was overthrown
at once.

The Marquis, the husband of Elisa, was a gentleman and very comm'il faut negligible. Their marriage
done for reasons of state and treasury, and had acted in love, or had created later. The full
vanity, a perfect vacuum around baby, all estimation and confidence, from the day of the wedding
until the day of death had been neatly hidden under the polite forms of mutual consideration,
respect and cold the most delicate gallantry.

Moreover, Elisa had always gone through modest and prudent. Not cited, during marriage, a triumph
that love alone would have brought upon it.

Had I known instill or without knowing or intending it, had raised expectations that did not
come to fruition.

Until now a widow, Elisa had not frequently addressed to the Earl of Alhedín.

Verle and wish her boyfriend was in all one. She was a genius so that we would proceed rudely called
flirtation, because his vanity was so subtle, so shoot and so refined, I needed a name more pilgrims
and newer. So, as I have come to find out, because of Elisa had to enter the elegant and aristocratic
dialect Madrid the English word flirtation, which begins and even
disseminated abasement. A few years ago was a word that was silent
except in the most elegant rooms and only if applied to another woman
who was not Elisa.

Elisa began, then, to flirt with Condesito.

He
soon obtained inspire love a little, but not the Condesito of those
who surrender and enslave easily.

The flirtation leaves no trace,
no trace, no sign of injury, and may yet enter deep in the soul and
hurt her death. The most essential excellence of the flirtation is,
what I have said, to shoot darts so invisible, that the person who
shoots can be taken for dismissing, in favor augur without ever Atine
or the foundation or the testimony of omen, and hopes to evoke under
such mysterious spells that are seen by those ruling. The question
that a woman has done something to encourage, must remain standing.
On this question should appear another no less important, namely because
the woman has done something in that sense, what it has done with
reflective or raptured will? Was there any inspiration was deliberate
or unconscious?

"What, then, would you do?" asked Orme.

"Return to the palace with these Mountaineers, O Oliver, and by help of that garrison, hold
it against all enemies."

"Very well," he replied. "To those who are quite lost one road is as good as another; they
must trust to the stars to guide them."

"Quite so," echoed Higgs; "and the sooner we go the better, for my leg hurts, and I want a sleep."

So Maqueda gave her commands to the officers, by whom they were conveyed to the regiment, which
received them with a shout, and instantly began to strike its camp.

Then it was, coming hot-foot after so much sorrow, loss and doubt, that there followed the
happiest event of all my life. Utterly tired out and very despondent, I was seated on an arrow-chest
awaiting the order to march, idly watching Oliver and Maqueda talking with great earnestness
at a little distance, and in the intervals trying to prevent poor Higgs at my side from falling
asleep. While I was thus engaged, suddenly I heard a disturbance, and by the bright moonlight
caught sight of a man being led into the camp in charge of a guard of Abati soldiers, whom
from their dress I knew to belong to a company that just then was employed in watching the
lower gates of the pass.

I took no particular heed of the incident, thinking only that they might have captured some
spy, till a murmur of astonishment, and the general stir, warned me that something unusual
had occurred. So I rose from my box and strolled towards the man, who now was hidden from me
by a group of Mountaineers. As I advanced this group opened, the men who composed it bowing
to me with a kind of wondering respect that impressed me, I did not know why.

Then for the first time I saw the prisoner. He was a tall, athletic young man, dressed in festal
robes with a heavy gold chain about his neck, and I wondered vaguely what such a person should
be doing here in this time of national commotion. He turned his head so that the moonlight
showed his dark eyes, his somewhat oval-shaped face ending in a peaked black beard, and his
finely cut features. In an instant I knew him.

It was my son Roderick!

Next moment, for the first time for very many years, he was in my arms.

The first thing that I remember saying to him was a typically Anglo-Saxon remark, for however
much we live in the East or elsewhere, we never really shake off our native conventions, and
habits of speech. It was, "How are you, my boy, and how on earth did you come here?" to which
he answered, slowly, it is true, and speaking with a foreign accent:

"All right, thank you, father. I ran upon my legs."

By this time Higgs hobbled up, and was greeting my son warmly, for, of course, they were old
friends.

"Thought you were to be married to-night, Roderick?" he said.

"Yes, yes," he answered, "I am half married according to Fung custom, which counts not to my
soul. Look, this is the dress of marriage," and he pointed to his fine embroidered robe and
rich ornaments.

"Then, where's your wife?" asked Higgs.

"I do not know and I do not care," he answered, "for I did not like that wife. Also it is all
nothing as I am not quite married to her. Fung marriage between big people takes two days to
finish, and if not finished does not matter. So she marry some one else if she like, and I too."

"What happened then?" I asked.

"Oh, this, father. When we had eaten the marriage feast, but before we past before priest,
suddenly we hear a thunder and see a pillar of fire shoot up into sky, and sitting on top of
it head of Harmac, which vanish into heaven and stop there. Then everybody jump up and say:

"'Magic of white man! Magic of white man! White man kill the god who sit there from beginning
of world, now day of Fung finished according to prophecy. Run away, people of Fung, run away!'

"Barung the Sultan tear his clothes too, and say--'Run away, Fung,' and my half-wife, she tear
her clothes and say nothing, but run like antelope. So they all run toward east, where great
river is, and leave me alone. Then I get up and run too--toward west, for I know from Black
Windows," and he pointed to Higgs, "when we shut up together in belly of god before he let
down to lions, what all this game mean, and therefore not frightened. Well, I run, meeting
no one in night, till I come to pass, run up it, and find guards, to whom I tell story, so
they not kill me, but let me through, and at last I come here, quite safe, without Fung wife,
thank God, and that end of tale."

"I am afraid you are wrong there, my boy," I said, "out of the frying-pan into the fire, that's
all."

"Out of frying-pan into fire," he repeated. "Not understand; father must remember I only little
fellow when Khalifa's people take me, and since then speak no English till I meet Black Windows.
Only he give me Bible-book that he have in pocket when he go down to be eat by lions." (Here
Higgs blushed, for no one ever suspected him, a severe critic of all religions, of carrying
a Bible in his pocket, and muttered something about "ancient customs of the Hebrews.")

"Well," went on Roderick, "read that book ever since, and, as you see, all my English come back."

"The question is," said Higgs, evidently in haste to talk of something else, "will the Fung
come back?"

"Oh! Black Windows, don't know, can't say. Think not. Their prophecy was that Harmac move to
Mur, but when they see his head jump into sky and stop there, they run every man toward the
sunrise, and I think go on running."

"But Harmac has come to Mur, Roderick," I said; "at least his head has fallen on to the cliff
that overlooks the city."

"Oh! my father," he answered, "then that make great difference. When Fung find out that head
of Harmac has come here, no doubt they come after him, for head his most holy bit, especially
as they want hang all the Abati whom they not like."

"Well, let's hope that they don't find out anything about it," I replied, to change the subject.
Then taking Roderick by the hand I led him to where Maqueda stood a yard or two apart, listening
to our talk, but, of course, understanding very little of it, and introduced him to her, explaining
in a few words the wonderful thing that had happened. She welcomed him very kindly, and congratulated
me upon my son's escape. Meanwhile, Roderick had been staring at her with evident admiration.
Now he turned to us and said in his quaint broken English:

"Walda Nagasta most lovely woman! No wonder King Solomon love her mother. If Barung's daughter,
my wife, had been like her, think I run through great river into rising sun with Fung."

Oliver instantly translated this remark, which made us all laugh, including Maqueda herself,
and very grateful we were to find the opportunity for a little innocent merriment upon that
tragic night.

By this time the regiment was ready to start, and had formed up into companies. Before the
march actually began, however, the officer of the Abati patrol, in whose charge Roderick had
been brought to us, demanded his surrender that he might deliver his prisoner to the Commander-in-Chief,
Prince Joshua. Of course, this was refused, whereon the man asked roughly:

"By whose order?"

As it happened, Maqueda, of whose presence he was not aware, heard him, and acting on some
impulse, came forward, and unveiled.

"By mine," she said. "Know that the Child of Kings rules the Abati, not the Prince Joshua,
and that prisoners taken by her soldiers are hers, not his. Be gone back to your post!"

The captain stared, saluted, and went with his companions, not to the pass, indeed, as he had
been ordered, but to Joshua. 

Nina could not take his mind the image of Doña Paca, or ceased to imagine, and in a way, and
of another foster care home that would be. At times he expected to be received with joy, at times
feared find Dona Francisca furious at having her request that alms, and above all, to go with
a Moor. But nothing put in so much turmoil and confusion his mind as the idea of ​​the developments
that had to be found in the family, as Antonio with vague references to tell the exit Pardo.
Doña Paca, and he, and Obdulia were rich! How? This was something sudden, brought from the
overnight by D. Romualdo ... Go to Don Romualdo! He had invented it, and dark breast of the
invention out person Indeed, doing miracles, bringing wealth, and turning into reality the
dream gifts Quia Samdai King! This could not be. Nina suspicious, believing it was all joke
Antonito Joker, and instead of finding Francisca swimming in the abundance, find drowning,
as always, in a sea of ​​traps and misery.

XXXVIII

Trembling came to the Imperial road, and having ordered the
Moor that was leaning against the wall and wait there while she went
up and found out whether he could not stay where he was home, Almudena
said: "No you bandon me, Amri.

- Are you mad?

"Forsake me now that you are unwell, and the two walk as the doldrums? Do not think such nonsense,
and Stay there. I will put you over there at the entrance of the street Lett.

- Would not you n'gañar me? "Golven you ready?

- In seguidita see what happens over, and if you are in a good temper
my Doña Paca.

"

Nina climbed out of breath, and with great anxiety rang the bell. First surprise: he opened the
door an unknown woman, young woman, of tipitos elegant, very clean with her apron. Benina thought
he was dreaming. Surely the devil had taken up the house to weight bear her, leaving in place
one that looked the same and very different. Entered the fugitive without ask, with no little
astonishment of Daniela, who at first did not know. But what they meant, what they were, where
they came from those gardens, which were as precious Mall shrubs from the door, all along
the corridor? Benina rubbed his eyes, thinking found even under the action of the stupid drowsiness
del Pardo in the fetid and stifling blocks. No, no that was not home, could not be, and confirmed
the emergence of another unknown figure, as a cook fine on straight, haughty countenance ...
And looking the dining room, whose door at the end of the hall opened, saw ... Good God, how
wonderful, what else ...! Was it dream? No, no, that it was safe to see with our bodily eyes.
Top the table, but not touching her, as if suspended in the air, there were plenty of precious stones
with different brightness, lights and shades, ingrown nails, others blue or green. Jesus, what beautiful!
Do Doña Paca, smarter than her, had made the spell of the king Samdai, requesting and obtaining
from him the truckloads of diamonds and sapphires? Before I could understand that whosoever glass
sparkle came from the flaps of the lamp room, illuminated by a candle that had just lit Doña Paca to
review the knives of the house Juliana bring loans had appeared at the door of this room, and cutting
happened to poor old said between laughing and tasteless:

- "Hello, Nina, are you here? Did you like now?

We thought you had gone to Congo ... No passes do not enter, stay there, we're going to get lost
soil, washed this evening ... Bonita come! ... Stand back those legs, woman, you stain the tiles
...

- Where's the lady? - Nina said, turning to look at the diamonds and
emeralds, and doubting and they were effective.

- The lady is here
... But he says no passes, it will come full of misery ...».

At that time appeared on the other hand Miss Obdulia, screaming: "Nina, welcome you are, but
before you get home, you have to fumigant and put in the wash ...
No, no I stand next to me.

So many days between poor filthy! ... See how nice is it? ".

Juliana moved towards her smiling, but through the smile, there was a glimpse Nina Edger authority
that was able to win there, and said: "This is now commands.

It is well known despotism. " In the arrogance with which benevolence coated he welcomed the
tyrant, said Nina would not leave without seeing his wife.

"Woman, go, go - he murmured from the back of the room, his voice choked by sobs Mrs. Dona Francisca
Juarez.

Staying at the door, a voice replied Benina whole "Here I am, ma'am, and as say staining the tiles,
do not want to spend, say no way ... Things have happened to me you do not want to tell you
not to grieve her ... They carried dam, have been hungry ... I have suffered shame, abuse ...
I kept thinking about the lady, and whether they would also hunger, and if he would be helpless.

-
No, no, Nina: Since you been gone, look what happened! entered the lot at my house ... It seems
a miracle, right? Do you remember what we talked aburriditas in this solitude, ah! in those nights
of misery and suffering?

Well, the miracle is a truth, daughter, and you can We understand
that you have done your Don Romualdo, the blessed, the archangel,
who in his modesty not want to confess the benefits that you and I
owe ... and denies its merits and virtues ... and says there is Patros
niece Dona ... and that have been proposed for Bishop ... But he is,
is it because there can be no other, no he can not have, to make these
wonders.

"

Nina did not answer syllable, and leaning on the door, sobbing.

"I gladly receive you here again - said Dona Francisca, whose side, in shadow, Juliana was, suggesting
it under what he would say - but do not fit at home very uncomfortable and we are here ...
You know I love you, your company pleases me more than anything ... but ... you see ... Tomorrow
we'll move, and you make a hole in the new house ... What you say? Got something to say? Child, you
can not complain, keep in mind that you went the wrong way, without leaving a crumb of bread at
home, alone, abandoned ... Go to Nina!

Frankly, your conduct deserves me to be a little severe with you
... And everything speaks against yours, you forgot the sound principles
always taught you, largándote company into the world in a Moraza ...
God knows what breed of bird is this, and what spells will have achieved
make you forget about morality.

Tell me, confiésamelo all: do you have left now?

- No, ma'am.

-
Have you brought with you?

- Yes, ma'am.

Below is waiting.

- As you are well, can you think of everything ... Up to bring him home!

- At home I had, because he is sick, and I will not leave the street
- said Benina in a firm voice.

- I know you're good, and sometimes
your goodness you blind and do not look for the honor.

- Nothing
has the decency to do with this, and I miss it go to Almudena, a poor
thing.

He loves me ... and I look like a child. "

The ingenuity with which he expressed his thought Nina did not penetrate the soul of Doña Paca,
without leaving your seat, and the knives on the side, he continued saying

"There is no other like you to fix things, and tweak your faults until
you get that look perfections, but I love you, Nina, I recognize your
good qualities, and not leave you ever.

- Thank you, ma'am, thank
you very much.

- Do not miss what you eat, no bed to sleep.

I've served, I've followed, I have held in my adversity.

You're good, very good, but not abuse, child, do not tell me you were coming home with the
Moor of dates, because believe you've gone mad.

- At home I had, yes, ma'am, as I brought Frasquito Ponte, for charity ... If there was mercy the
other, why should not having this? Or is that love is one for the gentleman frock coat, and another
for the poor naked? I do not think so, I can not tell ... Therefore we brought, and if he does
not admit, will be the same as if I was not admitted.

- You always ... I say, not always ... I mean ... we have no gap in home ... We four women, you
see ... Will you come back tomorrow? The wretched places in a good inn ... not What nonsense! Hospital
... Simply go to D. Romualdo ... Tell him from me I would recommend ... you look at just my own
... Oh, I do not know what I mean! ... as something of yours, and so you ... In short, daughter,
you see ... May you shelter in the house of Mr. Kidron to be very big ... you told me it's a
huge coffer seems a convent ... I well know, as imperfect creature, I have no virtue in a
heroic degree that need to switch to pobretería dirty and smelly ... No, daughter, do not: a question
of stomach and nerve ... I would die of disgust, you know. As I say, with the misery that will
bring about you! ... I love you, Nina, but I know my stomach ... I see a speck in the food,
and I already stir it all, and I'm sick three days ... Take your clothes if you want to move
... Juliana you give you what you need ... Do you hear what I say? Why are you silent? Ya, now
I understand. You get the humble best to hide your pride ... I forgive you everything, you
know that I love you I'm good for you ... In short, you know me ...
What?

- No, ma'am, I have not said anything, I have nothing to say
- Nina muttered between two sighs deep -.

Stay with God.

- But do not go mad at me - said in a tremulous voice Doña Paca, following her distance in its
slow march down the aisle.

- No, ma'am ... you know that I do not get mad at her old lady replied
...-- more compassionate than angry -.

Bye bye. "

Obdulia led his mother to the dining room saying, "Poor Nina! ... Leaves. Well look, I would
have liked to see that moro Muza and talk to him ... This Juliana, who all want to get !...».

Stunned
by cruel doubts that baffled his spirit could not express Dona Francisca no idea, and continued
to review the silverware performed. Meanwhile, Juliana, leading the Nina to the door with soft
oppression of his hand on the back of the beggar, the dismissed with
these warm words: "Do not worry, Sena Benina that nothing must be
lacking ... I forgive you the drive that I paid last week, do not
you remember?

- Lady Juliana, I do remember.

Thanks.

- Well, well take this one hard to suit tonight ... Go tomorrow home,
you'll find there clothes ...

- Lady Juliana, God bless.

- Nowhere
else will you be better than Mercy, and if you want, I myself will
speak D. Romualdo, if you get embarrassed.

Doña Paca and I recommend ... For my wife mother-in put their trust
in me and gave me money to keep it ... and to rule the house, and
furnishes as you need.

Much has to thank God have fallen into these hands ...

- Good hands, Madam Juliana.

- Take home, and tell him what to do.

- Perhaps I know without you telling me.

- That you will ... If you do not want to go home ...

- I will go.

-
Well, Sena Benina, until tomorrow.

- Lady Juliana, servant to you.

"

Quickly dropped the worn steps, eager to be seen soon in the street.

When she reached the blind, which was waiting nearby place, the immense grief that oppressed
the heart of the poor mourn old burst into a fiery, anguished, and struck his forehead with his
fist, exclaimed: "Ungrateful, unthankful, ungrateful

- No yorar you, Amri - said the blind loving, tearful Talking -. Lady yours ill be your angel.

-
What ingratitude, Lord ... Oh world ... oh misery!

... Affront to God is to do well ...

- Dir us Lueje ... Dirna, Amri ... Mondo Dispreciar you wrong.

- God sees the hearts of all, mine is too ... See it, Lord of heaven
and earth, see it soon.

"

XXXIX

Having said that, he wiped his tears with a trembling hand, and thought
in making decisions practical than the circumstances demanded.

"Dirna, Dirna - Almudena said grabbing her arm.

- Where? - Nina said with astonishment -. Ah! the former home of D. Romualdo. "

As he said this name stood for a moment lela, completely idiotic.

-
"R'maldo lie - said the blind.

- Yes, yes, my invention was.

Which has been so much wealth to the lady will be another one D. Romualdo glue ... creature of
the devil ... No, no, the glue is mine ... I do not know, I know.

Come on, Almudena. Think you're bad, you need to spend well sheltered at night. Juliana Sena,
which is now cut the cheese in the house of my lady, and all supplies ... in good time is ...
has given me this hard. I'll take you to the palaces of Bernarda,
and tomorrow we'll see.

- Tomorrow, we Hierusalaim dir.

- Where
did you say?

To Jerusalem? And where is that? Well, we want to carry that point, as it were, a supposition, or
Carabanchel Jetafe Down!

- Lueje, Lueje ... you marry me and be a Migo tigo.

Marseille Dirna roads asking ... In Marseille steam ... pim, pam ... Jaffa ... Hierusalaim! ...
Arreligión married by your own, arreligión mine ... you want ...
Veder you Sepulchre, enter S'nagoga you pray Adonai ...

- Hold on,
son, have a little quiet, and I'm not dizzy with the inventions of
your head delusions.

The first thing you wear is good.

- Me to be good ... I do not c'lentura
and ... contented me.

You come Migo always, mondo large walk mochas, freeing, sea, terra, Legria mocha ...

- Very nice, but now I realize that you and I are hungry, and get to dinner in any tavern. If
you think, here in the Cava Baja ...

- Onde want you, I want ...».

Dined with relative content, and Almudena not stop to ponder the joys of going juntitos to Jerusalem,
begging by land and by sea, without hurry, without care. It would take months half a year maybe,
but finally give their bodies in Palestine, although undertake by land to Constantinople. As there were
few attractive countries to go! Nina that she had objected and bones would be hard for so
long, and Africa, not and knowing how to persuade, he said: "terra Ispani n'gratituda ... Running
Lueje, juyando of n'gratos them. "

As they dined are reflected in Bernarda's house, bedrooms down, two real bed. Almudena was quiet
all night, unable to fall asleep, stuck with the short trip to Jerusalem, and Benin, to see
to calm him, showed himself willing to undertake so long pilgrimage. Restless and sore, as if the bed
of brambles out punching, Mordechai did nothing turn from side to side, complaining of burning
in the skin and itching grievous, which were not motivated, that is the truth, about anything concerning
the misery fought with insecticide dusts. This came perhaps a strange turn took the fever,
and is told the next morning in a red rash on arms and legs. The unfortunate desperately scratched
and Benin took him to the street, hoping that the air free and the exercise will serve as a
relief. After wandering about asking, not as usual, went to San Carlos Street, and went to
see Juliana Benina, there he had his clothes, and gave it a mess, saying that while it managed to
be contained in the Mercy lodged in any house price, with or without
man, but he was better, for decency left so friendly and indecent
treatment.

He added that once it was cleaned of all the filth that had brought the Pardo, could go visit
Dona Paca, to joyful receive it, but I did not expect to return to his side, because the children
were opposed to it, mindful that his mother was well served, and provided regularly. Yet he
was as the good woman who saw in it a superior untestable.

Juliana was not a bad person, parent, yes, eager to show the great gifts of government God had
given him, a woman who would not let two jerks fall prey into their
hands.

But not without love of neighbor, he felt sorry for Benin, and having
said this that the Moor the waiting in the street, wanted to see him
and judge him by his own eyes.

That the trace of the poor African seemed pitiful, met in the gesture he made in the look
on his face, and accent said: "I already knew him to this, to see
him on the street asking the Duke of Alba.

He's a good point, and very much in love.

Right, Mr. Almudena, who likes you girls?

- Like my B'nina, Amri ...

- Ajaj ... Benina poor, he has not been granted poor fly! If you do this for charity, honest
I say you're a saint.

- The poor guy is sick and can not use. "

And as the Moor, seized with very violent itching in the arms and chest, claws do your fingers
to scrape win, edging closer to look at her arms, which had stripped from the sleeve. "What
has this man - said to fear - is leprosy ... Jesus, what Leprosy
Benina sign!

I have seen another case, a poor, del Moro well, begging him, Oran him calling at Puerta Cerrada,
next to the workshop of my stepfather. And it got so lost, not Christian had approached him, and
neither will the Saints Hospital wanted to receive ...

"Chop, chop mocha - Almudena was all he said, turning the nail from
the shoulder to hand, as would a comb through the tangle.

Concealing his disgust, not to hurt the unhappy pair, Juliana said Nina: "Well not you have fallen
ill concern with this guy! Look at that scab sticks. Good are you going put, yes ma'am, good,
nice and cheap ... Or are you more stupid than to cook the butter,
or do not know what it is you.

"

With Nina looks no more expressed their pity the poor blind man, his
decision not to leave him and compliance with all the calamities that
God would send. And in this, Antonio Zapata who returned home, saw
his wife in the group, came up to her hurriedly, and aware of what
speaking, Benina advised to carry the Moor to the query of skin diseases
San Juan de Dios.

"More consideration will have - said Juliana - send to their land.

- Lueje, Lueje - said Almudena -. Dir Hierusalaim us.

- Not bad. "From Madrid to Jerusalem, or the family of Uncle Maroma
...'.

Well, well. In other thing, my little lady, do not hit and listen. I could not do your assignments,
because ... I tell you they do not hit.

- Because you've gone to the pool, rogue ... Up, up, and adjust accounts.

- Do not climb because I have to go back to the cars of pathos.

- What do you say, you rascal?

- Not big go cart for less than forty real, and as you sent me from passing thirty ...

- Will I have to see. These men do not serve more than a hindrance, do you, Nina?

- Truth. What is it? Mrs. Will move?

- Yes, women, but may not be until tomorrow, because this silly husband God has given me, out before
the eight to take the house and alert the car, and you see what time you pick up here, with
all that rennet, without having done anything.

- Pretty've run, girl: At nine I went home mom with the contract for signature. You see if we
won time. But you know I've lost Frasquito Ponte, He has given us a tremendous s boring? As
we had to take him home and I Polidura with the greatest job. God, how is the man, and why mess on its
head from the thud of yesterday! ".

Benin and Juliana also interested in good or bad fortune of the son of Algeciras, heard attentive Antonio
told them what the consequences of the fall funestísimas Rider Pardo on the road. When I saw
on the ground, fired by jaco, everyone thought that at that critical moment he had finished the
poor knight's mortal existence. But lift, Frasquito recovered, as he revives the movement
and speech, and ensuring have not been hit in the head, which was
the most sensitive, and felt in different parts the skull, he said,
'No, no, gentlemen, touch Me and not find the slightest bump. " Arms
and legs, if at first seemed to have come out with fortune, for surely
broken bone I had to jump-start some horribly lame left leg, indeed,
without doubt, the violent collision with the ground. But the strangest
thing was that, as he stood, broke into a gibberish, rash, red face
like a tomato, vibrant and breath language. They took him to his home
by car, believing that a complete rest will restore; frotáronle entire
body with arnica, I went to bed, they were ... But damn, as they after
the patron said he had no sooner left alone, dressed himself hastily,
and fell to street was home to Boto, and he stayed there until very
late getting to everyone, and leading to the peaceful insolence intemperate
parishioners. As this was contrary Frasquito the placid nature, and
his shyness and good education, which surely had disturbance severe
brain because of the bump. It is not known where he spent the rest
of the night: it is believed that was stirring in the streets of Midi
Grande and Chica. The fact is that shortly after arriving Polidura
Antonio and home of Dona Francisca, took Frasquito very excited, his
face flushed, bright eyes, and with great surprise and dismay of the
ladies, began to drop in his mouth, a little crooked, outrageous nonsense.
Combining skill with the force, could get there and get back home,
where they left him, ordering the employer to hold if could, and to
do for feeding. So we settled on it in preference to surrender, which we
knew meant death to ourselves, and for Maqueda a choice between that last grim solution of
her troubles and a forced marriage.

But there were others to be convinced, namely, the Mountaineers. Japhet, who had been present
at the council, was sent to summon all of them except those actually on guard, and when they
were assembled in the large inner court Maqueda went out and addressed them.

I do not remember the exact words of her speech, and I made no note of them, but it was extremely
beautiful and touching. She pointed out her plight, and that we could halt no longer between
two opinions, who must either fight or yield. For herself she said she did not care, since,
although she was young and their ruler, she set no store upon her life, and would give it up
gladly rather than be driven into a marriage which she considered shameful, and forced to pass
beneath the yoke of traitors.

But for us foreigners she did care. We had come to her country at her invitation, we had served
her nobly, one of us had given his life to protect her person, and now, in violation of her
safeguard and that of the Council, we were threatened with a dreadful death. Were they, her
subjects, so lacking in honour and hospitality that they would suffer such a thing with no
blow struck to save us?

Now the majority of them shouted "No," but some were silent, and one old captain advanced,
saluted, and spoke.

"Child of Kings," he said, "let us search out the truth of this matter. Is it not because of
your love of the foreign soldier, Orme, that all this trouble has arisen? Is not that love
unlawful according to our law, and are you not solemnly affianced to the Prince Joshua?"

Maqueda considered awhile before she replied, and said slowly:

"Friend, my heart is my own, therefore upon this point answer your question for yourself. As
regards my uncle Joshua, if there existed any abiding contract between us it was broken when
a few nights ago he sent his servants armed to attack and drag me off I know not whither. Would
you have me marry a traitor and a coward? I have spoken."

"No," again shouted the majority of the soldiers.

Then in the silence that followed the old captain replied, with a canniness that was almost Scotch:

"On the point raised by you, O Child of Kings, I give no opinion, since you, being but a woman,
if a high-born one, would not listen to me if I did, but will doubtless follow that heart of
yours of which you speak to whatever end is appointed. Settle the matter with your betrothed
Joshua as you will. But we also have a matter to settle with Joshua, who is a toad with a long
tongue that if he seems slow yet never misses his fly. We took up your cause, and have killed
a great number of his people, as he has killed some of ours. This he will not forget. Therefore
it seems to me that it will be wise that we should make what we can of the nest that we have
built, since it is better to die in battle than on the gallows. For this reason, then, since
we can stay here no longer, for my part I am willing to go out and fight for you this night,
although Joshua's people being so many and ours so few, I shall think myself fortunate if I
live to see another sun."

This hard and reasoned speech seemed to appeal to the dissentients, with the result that they
withdrew their opposition, and it was agreed that we should attempt to break our way through
the besieging army about one hour before the dawn, when they would be heavily asleep and most
liable to panic.

Yet, as it chanced, that sortie was destined never to take place, which perhaps was fortunate
for us, since I am convinced that it would have ended in failure. It is true that we might
have forced our way through Joshua's army, but afterwards those of us who remained alive would
have been surrounded, starved out, and, when our strength and ammunition were exhausted taken
prisoners or cut down.

However that may be, events shaped a different course for us, perhaps because the Abati got
wind of our intention and had no stomach for a pitched battle with desperate men. As it happened,
this night from sunset on to moonrise was one of a darkness so remarkable that it was impossible
to see anything even a foot away, also a wind blowing from the east made sounds very inaudible.
Only a few of our men were on guard, since it was necessary that they should be rested till
it was time for them to prepare for their great effort. Also, we had little fear of any direct
attack.

About eight o'clock, however, my son Roderick, one of the watch stationed in the gateway towers,
who was gifted with very quick ears, reported that he thought he heard people moving on the
farther side of the massive wooden doors beyond the moat. Accordingly some of us went to listen,
but could distinguish nothing, and concluded therefore that he was mistaken. So we retired
to our posts and waited patiently for the moon to rise. But as it chanced no moon rose, or
rather we could not see her, because the sky was completely covered by thick banks of thunder-clouds
presaging the break-up of a period of great heat. These, as the wind had now died down, remained
quite stationary upon the face of the sky, blotting out all light.

Perhaps another hour had passed when, chancing to look behind me, I saw what I thought was
a meteor falling from the crest of the cliff against which the palace was built, that cliff
whither the head of the idol Harmac had been carried by the force of the explosion.

"Look at that shooting star," I said to Oliver, who was at my side.

"It is not a shooting star, it is fire," he replied in a startled voice, and, as he spoke,
other streaks of light, scores of them, began to rain down from the brow of the cliff and land
upon the wooden buildings to the rear of the palace that were dry as tinder with the drought,
and, what was worse, upon the gilded timber domes of the roof.

"Don't you understand the game?" he went on. "They have tied firebrands to arrows and spears
to burn us out. Sound the alarm. Sound the alarm!"

It was done, and presently the great range of buildings began to hum like a hive of bees. The
soldiers still half asleep, rushed hither and thither shouting. The officers also, developing
the characteristic excitement of the Abati race in this hour of panic, yelled and screamed
at them, beating them with their fists and swords till some kind of control was established.

Then attempts were made to extinguish the flames, which by this time had got hold in half-a-dozen
places. From the beginning the effort was absolutely hopeless. It is true that there was plenty
of water in the moat, which was fed by a perennial stream that flowed down the face of the
precipice behind; but pumping engines of any sort were quite unknown to the Abati, who, if
a building took fire, just let it burn, contenting themselves with safeguarding those in its
neighbourhood. Moreover, even in the palace, such articles as pails, jugs, or other vessels
were comparatively few and far between.

Those that we could find, however, were filled with water and passed by lines of men to the
places in most danger--that is, practically everywhere--while other men tried to cut off the
advance of the flames by pulling down portions of the building.

But as fast as one fire was extinguished others broke out, for the rain of burning darts and
of lighted pots or lamps filled with oil descended continuously from the cliff above. A strange
and terrible sight it was to see them flashing down through the darkness, like the fiery darts
that shall destroy the wicked in the day of Armageddon.

Still, we toiled on despairingly. On the roof we four white men, and some soldiers under the
command of Japhet, were pouring water on to several of the gilded domes, which now were well
alight. Close by, wrapped in a dark cloak, and attended by some of her ladies, stood Maqueda.
She was quite calm, although sundry burning arrows and spears, falling with great force from
the cliff above, struck the flat roofs close to where she stood.

Her ladies, however, were not calm. They wept and wrung their hands, while one of them went
into violent hysterics in her very natural terror. Maqueda turned and bade them descend to
the courtyard of the gateway, where she said she would join them presently. They rushed off,
rejoicing to escape the sight of those burning arrows, one of which had just pierced a man
and set his clothes and hair on fire, causing him to leap from the roof in his madness.

At Oliver's request I ran to the Child of Kings to lead her to some safer place, if it could
be found. But she would not stir.

"Let me be, O Adams," she said. "If I am to die, I will die here. But I do not think that is
fated," and with her foot she kicked aside a burning spear that had struck the cement roof,
and, rebounding, fallen quite close to her. "If my people will not fight," she went on, with
bitter sarcasm, "at least they understand the other arts of war, for this trick of theirs is
clever. They are cruel also. Listen to them mocking us in the square. They ask whether we will
roast alive or come out and have our throats cut. Oh!" she went on, clenching her hands, "oh!
that I should have been born the head of such an accursed race. Let Sheol take them all, for
in the day of their tribulation no finger will I lift to save them."

She was silent for a moment, and down below, near the gateway, I heard some brute screaming,
"Pretty pigeons! Pretty pigeons, are your feathers singeing? Come then into our pie, pretty
pigeons, pretty pigeons!" followed by shouts of ribald laughter.

But it chanced it was this hound himself who went into the "pie." Presently, when the flames
were brighter, I saw him, in the midst of a crowd of his admirers, singing his foul song, another
verse of it about Maqueda, which I will not repeat, and by good fortune managed to put a bullet
through his head. It was not a bad shot considering the light and circumstances, and the only
one I fired that night. I trust also that it will be the last I shall ever fire at any human being.

Just as I was about to leave Maqueda and return with her message to Orme, to the effect that
she would not move, the final catastrophe occurred. Amongst the stables was a large shed filled
with dry fodder for the palace horses and camels. Suddenly this burst into a mass of flame
that spread in all directions. Then came the last, hideous panic. From every part of the palace,
the Mountaineers, men and officers together, rushed down to the gateway. In a minute, with
the single exception of Japhet, we four and Maqueda were left alone upon the roof, where we
stood overwhelmed, not knowing what to do. We heard the drawbridge fall; we heard the great
doors burst upon beneath the pressure of a mob of men; we heard a coarse voice--I thought it
was that of Joshua--yell:

"Kill whom you will, my children, but death to him who harms the Child of Kings. She is my spoil!"

Then followed terrible sights and sounds. The cunning Abati had stretched ropes outside the
doors; it was the noise they made at this work which had reached Roderick's ears earlier during
the darkness. The terrified soldiers, flying from the fire, stumbled and fell over these ropes,
nor could they rise again because of those who pressed behind. What happened to them all I
am sure I do not know, but doubtless many were crushed to death and many more killed by Joshua's
men. I trust, however, that some of them escaped, since, compared to the rest of the Abati,
they were as lions are to cats, although, like all their race, they lacked the stamina to fight
an uphill game.

It was at the commencement of this terrific scene that I shot the foul-mouthed singer.

"You shouldn't have done that, old fellow," screamed Higgs in his high voice, striving to make
himself heard above the tumult, "as it will show those swine where we are."

"I don't think they will look for us here, anyway," I answered.

Then we watched awhile in silence.

"Come," said Orme at length, taking Maqueda by the hand.

"Where are you going, O Oliver?" she asked, hanging back. "Sooner will I burn than yield to
Joshua."

"I am going to the cave city," he answered; "we have nowhere else to go, and little time to
lose. Four men with rifles can hold that place against a thousand. Come."

"I obey," she answered, bowing her head.

We went down the stairway that led from the roof on which the inhabitants of the palace were
accustomed to spend much of their day, and even to sleep in hot weather, as is common in the
East. Another minute and we should have been too late. The fire from one of the domes had spread
to the upper story, and was already appearing in little tongues of flame mingled with jets
of black smoke through cracks in the crumbling partition wall.

As a matter of fact this wall fell in just as my son Roderick, the last of us, was passing
down the stairs. With the curiosity of youth he had lingered for a few moments to watch the
sad scene below, a delay which nearly cost him his life.

On the ground floor we found ourselves out of immediate danger, since the fire was attacking
this part of the palace from above and burning downward. We had even time to go to our respective
sleeping-places and collect such of our possessions and valuables as we were able to carry.
Fortunately, among other things, these included all our note-books, which to-day are of priceless
value. Laden with these articles, we met again in the audience hall, which, although it was
very hot, seemed as it had always been, a huge, empty place, whereof the roof, painted with
stars, was supported upon thick cedar columns, each of them hewn from a single tree.

Passing down that splendid apartment, which an hour later had ceased to exist, lamps in hand,
for these we had found time to fetch and light, we reached the mouth of the passage that led
to the underground city without meeting a single human being.

Had the Abati been a different race they could perfectly well have dashed in and made us prisoners,
for the drawbridge was still intact. But their cowardice was our salvation, for they feared
lest they should be trapped by the fire. So I think at least, but justice compels me to add
that, on the spur of the moment, they may have found it impossible to clear the gateways of
the mass of fallen or dead soldiers over which it would have been difficult to climb.

Such, at any rate, was the explanation that we heard afterwards.

We reached the mouth of the vast cave in perfect safety, and clambered through the little orifice
which was left between the rocks rolled thither by the force of the explosion, or shaken down
from the roof. This hole, for it was nothing more, we proceeded to stop with a few stones in
such a fashion that it could not be forced without much toil and considerable noise, only leaving
one little tortuous channel through which, if necessary, a man could creep.

The labour of rock-carrying, in which even Maqueda shared, occupied our minds for awhile, and
induced a kind of fictitious cheerfulness. But when it was done, and the chilly silence of
that enormous cave, so striking in comparison with the roar of the flames and the hideous human
tumult which we had left without, fell upon us like sudden cold and blinding night upon a wanderer
in windy, sunlit mountains, all our excitement perished. In a flash, we understood our terrible
position, we who had but escaped from the red fire to perish slowly in the black darkness.

Still we strove to keep our spirits as best we could. Leaving Higgs to watch the blocked passage,
a somewhat superfluous task, since the fire without was our best watchman, the rest of us threaded
our way up the cave, following the telephone wire which poor Quick had laid on the night of
the blowing-up of the god Harmac, till we came to what had been our headquarters during the
digging of the mine. Into the room which was Oliver's, whence we had escaped with so much difficulty
after that event, we could not enter because of the transom that blocked the doorway. Still,
there were plenty of others at hand in the old temple, although they were foul with the refuse
of the bats that wheeled about us in thousands, for these creatures evidently had some unknown
access to the open air. One of these rooms had served as our store-chamber, and after a few
rough preparations we assigned it to Maqueda.

"Friends," she said, as she surveyed its darksome entrance, "it looks like the door of a tomb.
Well, in the tomb there is rest, and rest I must have. Leave me to sleep, who, were it not
for you, O Oliver, would pray that I might never wake again.

"Man," she added passionately, before us all, for now in face of the last peril every false
shame and wish to conceal the truth had left her; "man, why were you born to bring woe upon
my head and joy to my heart? Well, well, the joy outweighs the woe, and even if the angel who
led you hither is named Azrael, still I shall bless him who has revealed to me my soul. Yet
for you I weep, and if only your life could be spared to fulfil itself in happiness in the
land that bore you, oh! for you I would gladly die."

Now Oliver, who seemed deeply moved, stepped to her and began to whisper into her ear, evidently
making some proposal of which I think I can guess the nature. She listened to him, smiling
sadly, and made a motion with her hand as though to thrust him away.

"Not so," she said, "it is nobly offered, but did I accept, through whatever universes I may
wander, those who came after me would know me by my trail of blood, the blood of him who loved
me. Perhaps, too, by that crime I should be separated from you for ever. Moreover, I tell you
that though all seems black as this thick darkness, I believe that things will yet end well
for you and me--in this world or another."

Then she was gone, leaving Orme staring after her like a man in a trance.

"I daresay they will," remarked Higgs sotto voce to me, "and that's first-rate so far as they
are concerned. But what I should jolly well like to know is how they are going to end for us
who haven't got a charming lady to see us across the Styx."

"You needn't puzzle your brain over that," I answered gloomily, "for I think there will soon
be a few more skeletons in this beastly cave, that's all. Don't you see that those Abati will
believe we are burned in the palace?"

CHAPTER XIX

STARVATION

I was right. The Abati did think that we had been burned. It never occurred to them that we
might have escaped to the underground city. So at least I judged from the fact that they made
no attempt to seek us there until they learned the truth in the fashion that I am about to
describe. If anything, this safety from our enemies added to the trials of those hideous days
and nights. Had there been assaults to repel and the excitement of striving against overwhelming
odds, at any rate we should have found occupation for our minds and remaining energies.

But there were none. By turns we listened at the mouth of the passage for the echo of footsteps
that never came. Nothing came to break a silence so intense that at last our ears, craving
for sound, magnified the soft flitter of the bats into a noise as of eagle's wings, till at
last we spoke in whispers, because the full voice of man seemed to affront the solemn quietude,
seemed intolerable to our nerves.

Yet for the first day or two we found occupation of a sort. Of course our first need was to
secure a supply of food, of which we had only a little originally laid up for our use in the
chambers of the old temple, tinned meats that we had brought from London and so forth, now
nearly all consumed. We remembered that Maqueda had told us of corn from her estates which
was stored annually in pits to provide against the possibility of a siege of Mur, and asked
her where it was.

She led us to a place where round stone covers with rings attached to them were let into the
floor of the cave, not unlike those which stop the coal-shoots in a town pavement, only larger.
With great difficulty we prised one of these up; to me it did not seem to have been moved since
the ancient kings ruled in Mur and, after leaving it open for a long while for the air within
to purify, lowered Roderick by a rope we had to report its contents. Next moment we heard him
saying: "Want to come up, please. This place is not pleasant."

We pulled him out and asked what he had found.

"Nothing good to eat," he answered, "only plenty of dead bones and one rat that ran up my leg."

We tried the next two pits with the same result--they were full of human bones. Then we cross-examined
Maqueda, who, after reflection, informed us that she now remembered that about five generations
before a great plague had fallen on Mur, which reduced its population by one-half. She had
heard, also, that those stricken with the plague were driven into the underground city in order
that they might not infect the others, and supposed that the bones we saw were their remains.
This information caused us to close up those pits again in a great hurry, though really it
did not matter whether we caught the plague or no.

Still, as she was sure that corn was buried somewhere, we went to another group of pits in
a distant chamber, and opened the first one. This time our search was rewarded, to the extent
that we found at the bottom of it some mouldering dust that years ago had been grain. The other
pits, two of which had been sealed up within three years as the date upon the wax showed, were
quite empty.

Then Maqueda understood what had happened.

"Surely the Abati are a people of rogues," she said. "See now, the officers appointed to store
away my corn which I gave them have stolen it! Oh! may they live to lack bread even more bitterly
than we do to-day."

We went back to our sleeping-place in silence. Well might we be silent, for of food we had
only enough left for a single scanty meal. Water there was in plenty, but no food. When we
had recovered a little from our horrible disappointment we consulted together.

"If we could get through the mine tunnel," said Oliver, "we might escape into the den of lions,
which were probably all destroyed by the explosion, and so out into the open country."

"The Fung would take us there," suggested Higgs.

"No, no," broke in Roderick, "Fung all gone, or if they do, anything better than this black
hole, yes, even my wife."

"Let us look," I said, and we started.

When we reached the passage that led from the city to the Tomb of Kings, it was to find that
the wall at the end of it had been blown bodily back into the parent cave, leaving an opening
through which we could walk side by side. Of course the contents of the tomb itself were scattered.
In all directions lay bones, objects of gold and other metals, or overturned thrones. The roof
and walls alone remained as they had been.

"What vandalism!" exclaimed Higgs, indignant even in his misery. "Why wouldn't you let me move
the things when I wanted to, Orme?"

"Because they would have thought that we were stealing them, old fellow. Also those Mountaineers
were superstitious, and I did not want them to desert. But what does it matter, anyway? If
you had, they would have been burned in the palace."

By this time we had reached that end of the vast tomb where the hunchbacked king used to sit,
and saw at once that our quest was vain. The tunnel which we had dug beyond was utterly choked
with masses of fallen rock that we could never hope to move, even with the aid of explosives,
of which we had none left.

So we returned, our last hope gone.

Also another trouble stared us in the face; our supply of the crude mineral oil which the Abati
used for lighting purposes was beginning to run low. Measurement of what remained of the store
laid up for our use while the mine was being made, revealed the fact that there was only enough
left to supply four lamps for about three days and nights: one for Maqueda, one for ourselves,
one for the watchman near the tunnel mouth, and one for general purposes.

This general-purpose lamp, as a matter of fact, was mostly made use of by Higgs. Truly, he
furnished a striking instance of the ruling passion strong in death. All through those days
of starvation and utter misery, until he grew too weak and the oil gave out, he trudged backward
and forward between the old temple and the Tomb of Kings carrying a large basket on his arm.
Going out with this basket empty, he would bring it back filled with gold cups and other precious
objects that he had collected from among the bones and scattered rubbish in the Tomb. These
objects he laboriously catalogued in his pocket-book at night, and afterwards packed away in
empty cases that had contained our supplies of explosive and other goods, carefully nailing
them down when filled.

"What on earth are you doing that for, Higgs?" I asked petulantly, as he finished off another
case, I think it was his twentieth.

"I don't know, Doctor," he answered in a thin voice, for like the rest of us he was growing
feeble on a water-diet. "I suppose it amuses me to think how jolly it would be to open all
these boxes in my rooms in London after a first-rate dinner of fried sole and steak cut thick,"
and he smacked his poor, hungry lips. "Yes, yes," he went on, "to take them out one by one
and show them to ---- and ----," and he mentioned by name officials of sundry great museums
with whom he was at war, "and see them tear their hair with rage and jealousy, while they wondered
in their hearts if they could not manage to seize the lot for the Crown as treasure-trove,
or do me out of them somehow," and he laughed a little in his old, pleasant fashion.

"Of course I never shall," he added sadly, "but perhaps one day some other fellow will find
them here and get them to Europe, and if he is a decent chap, publish my notes and descriptions,
of which I have put a duplicate in each box, and so make my name immortal. Well, I'm off again.
There are four more cases to fill before the oil gives out, and I must get that great gold
head into one of them, though it is an awful job to carry it far at a time. Doctor, what disease
is it that makes your legs suddenly give way beneath you, so that you find yourself sitting
in a heap on the floor without knowing how you came there? You don't know? Well, no more do
I, but I've got it bad. I tell you I'm downright sore behind from continual and unexpected
contact with the rock."

Poor old Higgs! I did not like to tell him that his disease was starvation.

Well, he went on with his fetching and carrying and cataloguing and packing. I remember that
the last load he brought in was the golden head he had spoken of, the wonderful likeness of
some prehistoric king which has since excited so much interest throughout the world. The thing
being too heavy for him to carry in his weakened state, for it is much over life-size, he was
obliged to roll it before him, which accounts for the present somewhat damaged condition of
the nose and semi-Egyptian diadem.

Never shall I forget the sight of the Professor as he appeared out of the darkness, shuffling
along upon his knees where his garments were worn into holes, and by the feeble light of the
lamp that he moved from time to time, painfully pushing the great yellow object forward, only
a foot or two at each push.

"Here it is at last," he gasped triumphantly, whilst we watched him with indifferent eyes.
"Japhet, help me to wrap it up in the mat and lift it into the box. No, no, you donkey--face
upward--so. Never mind the corners, I'll fill them with ring-money and other trifles," and
out of his wide pockets he emptied a golden shower, amongst which he sifted handfuls of dust
from the floor and anything else he could find to serve as packing, finally covering all with
a goat's-hair blanket which he took from his bed. Having in between this plague, can not Rozart ... I had you were given
every day to collect the leftover food in the house that was your mistress.

- And I do not ...?

- Yes, yes, the food is yours ... but ... see what to do ... you get to the portal to hours that
I set, and my cousin Hillary will bring it down and I will give ...
coming at you at least I can ... You understand ... each has its qualms
... Not all stomachs are like yours, Nina, bombproof ... that ...

-
I understand ... Lady Juliana.

Stay with God. "

XL

Adversity and crashed in the heart of Benin, as the vague waves in the robust cliff. Rompíanse
thundered, were broken, melted in white foam, and nothing else. Rejected by the family that he
had sustained in saddest days of misery and pain without story soon remake of the deep trouble
that caused him so notorious ingratitude; his conscience gave him unspeakable consolation: he looked
at life from the height at which his contempt of human vanity put it, saw the ridiculous smallness
beings around her, and spirit was big and strong. Had achieved glorious victory, I felt victorious
after have lost the battle on the ground material. More intimate satisfactions of victory not
deprived of his gift of government, and attentive to material things, came in a little while
depart from Juliana, to solve the most urgent as the life both body concerned. It was crucial
to seek shelter, then try to cure your scabies Mordechai or whatever, then leave him in such
a pitiable state would not do for anything in the world although she saw the filthy infected wrong.
And ran with him to Santa Casilda, and finding vacated the small room occupied by the Moors with
Petra, he took it. Fortunately, the drunk Diega had gone to live in the Cava de San Miguel, behind
the ladder. Installed in that cache, which was not without comforts, the first thing that made
the old Alcarrian was to bring water, all the water he could, and wash and body soap, old habit
in it, that whenever he could practice at home of Dona Francisca. Then he wore clean. The welfare
cleanliness and freshness gave his body, somewhat confused with rest of his conscience, in which
he also felt something like absolute cleanliness and freshness comforting.

Then devoted himself to the arrangement of the house, and with the little money he had made his
purchase, and Mordechai prepared a good meal. They planned to bring the consultation the following
day, and so it said, showing the blind according to all with what she wanted the will to determine. While
they ate, entertained and encouraged him to hope and sweet words, offering to go, as he wanted
to Jerusalem or a little further, as regain health. Pending to take away the rash, there was
no need to think about travel. It would still, at home, she going to ask for one every day to
see get to live on, surely God not let them starve. So pleased the blind conceived and proposed
plan by his smart friends, and with his affectionate expressions, which burst into singing the
chant Arabic Benina already heard him in the landfill, but as to escape the stoning had lost
the small guitar, could not accompany the son of that rough instrument. He then proposed to
companion to cast incense, and she did it willingly, because the smog and flavored saneaba poor
room.

They left the next day for consultation, but as they nominate for this one-hour evening, entertained
the first half of the day pordioseando on several streets, always good care of the chili, not
to fall again in the hands of those who cast the tie to beggars, as if they were dogs and take
them to the warehouse, where they treated like dogs. It must be said that the ungrateful not come
from Doña Paca Nina woke up in hatred or malice, and that compliance with the ingratitude of this
took away the desire not to see the unhappy lady, who dearly wanted, as a partner of bitterness
in many years. Longed view, even if from afar, and brought this fondness, it was the street
of Lettuce to discern a discreet distance if the family was in the process of moving or had
moved now. What time has arrived! He was in the car door, and the boys got stuff in it with
the barbarous quickly that used in this operation. From his vantage Benina recognized the
decrepit furniture, bent, and could not contain his excitement at seeing them. It was almost
his, of its existence, and they saw, as in a mirror, the image of their sorrows and joys;
I thought that if approached, the poor tackle had to say something, or cry with it. But what was
strongly impressed to see out through the portal and Obdulia Dona Paca, with Polidura and
Juliana, as if it were a new home, while the maids are elegant remained in the former, providing
for collection and transportation of offal, and all the trash home.

Troubled and confused, Nina hid in a doorway, to see without being
seen.

What impaired Dona Francisca found! He wore a new dress, but so heinous appearance, as cut
and sewn in a hurry, it seemed like the poor lady dressed in alms. Covered his head with a robe,
and held a sombrerote Obdulia with deformed flourish and feathers. Doña Paca walked slowly,
staring at the floor, overwhelmed, sad, as if carried by guards civilians. The girl laughed, chatted
with Polidura. Juliana was behind herding them all, and sending them they were in a hurry by the
way that marked them. No more than he needed to look like wood to that on Christmas Eve the streets
leading flocks of turkeys. How dawned despotism in the smallest movements! Doña Paca was the humble
response that goes where the lead, even at the slaughterhouse, Juliana and the shepherd who leads.
Disappeared the Plaza Mayor, the street of keypads ... Benina took steps to see the sad cattle
and when he lost it, wiped the tears flooding her face.

"Poor dear lady! - Said the blind man as he met him -.

I love her as a sister, because together we spent many penalties. I was all for it, and it all
for me. Forgive me my faults, I will forgive their own ... How sad it is, perhaps thinking
of how bad ported with Nina! It seems that rheumatism is worse, so lame, and his face is not
have eaten in four days. I brought cherry-picked, I was cheating with good shade, hiding our
misery, and putting my face in shame for him to eat according to what was his taste and custom ...
In short, the past, and said the other, it happened. Come on, Almudena, let's go here, and God
put you well soon to take the little road to Jerusalem, not and scares me by far. Walking,
walking, child, comes from a part of the world to another, and if one hand we get the benefit
of fresh air and see new things, on the other we get the certainty that everything is the same,
and that parts of the world are a guess, as the world in together, you say, that wherever people
live, or verbigracia, women, be ingratitude, selfishness, and ones that send to others and
will catch them. As we must do what conscience commands us, and let those who fight for a bone,
like dogs, the other over a toy, as children, or those by bully, as older, and not to quarrel
with anybody, and take what God put us ahead, like the birds ... Come to the Hospital, and
do not be sad.

- Me not sad - said Almudena -; be satisfied tigo ... God you know
how things tudas and I quiries you and Angela Bunite ... And if you
do not want to marry me, this be your mother mine, and I was a child
Bunite yours.

- Well, man, that's fine.

- And you com palm desert
D'granda, Bunite thou zucena branca com ... Illyricum you ... Telling
me Amri you: my soul.

"

As I was the unhappy pair Hospital Road, Doña Paca and his entourage,
in a different direction, they approached their new house, rue de
Orellana, a third clean with paper and stucco brand-new, good lighting,
ventilation, excellent cuisine, and price accommodated to the circumstances.

It seemed too good to Dona Francisca, when up came, smothered the
endless stairs and if he felt bad, careful not to show it, abdicating
in all their will and opinions.

The flexible, more flexible, flabby character of the widow, was adapted to the feeling and
thinking Juliana, and seeing this that it ran between the fingers
that bread crumbs, pellets made with it.

Doña Paca not breathe without the permission of the tyrant, who for the most insignificant acts of
life, had quite a few orders that dictate to the unhappy lady. It came to having a childhood fear,
it felt soft crumb inside the bronze hand beading and indeed it was not just afraid, for he mingled
with some respect and admiration.

Lay the lady from the bustle of the day, and stuck all the furniture, dishes and pots in the new
house and attacked an intense sadness that devoured the soul, called her tirana to say, "You
have not explained well by the way we speak. What stories Nina has its moro? Is this good-looking?
".

Juliana gave the explanation that he asked his subject, without hurting
Nina and put it in wrong place demonstrated in this fine touch.

"And stay ... that it can not come to me, for fear that plague us from getting filthy. You did
well.

If not for you, I would be exposed, God knows, we stick to the plague ... Get over that would collect
leftover food.

But this is not enough, and I would happy to point out a number, for example, a penny daily. What?

- I say that if we start with those jokes, Mrs. Dona Paca, Peñaranda again soon. No, No: a quarter
is a quarter ... Pretty Nina has two real.

So I thought, and if you have something else, I wash my hands.

- Two real, two ... You have said ... and simply, yes.

Do you know the miracles that Nina half penny? ".

In this Daniela was very alarmed, saying Frasquito knocked on the door, and Obdulia, that the
sight had seen, felt that it was opened, to avoid another scandal such as Imperial Street.
But who told him the address of the new home? No Polidura doubt was the snitch, and Juliana
is sworn to snatch his ear. The mishap occurred Get serious while calling with nervous fury, determined
to break the bell, rose Hilaria street and opened the latch-key and there was no possible way
to cut the intruder, who rushed in, appearing before the frightened ladies with their hats pulled
down ears, brandishing the cane, the great detriment and clothing stained with dirt and mud.
It He had twisted his mouth, and painfully dragged his right leg.

"By God, Frasquito - Doña Paca said pleading - we do not riot. You are wrong, and should go to
bed. "

Obdulia also went out emphatically declaiming "Frasquito: a person
like you, so fine, in good society, say such things!

... Please view, back to consciousness.

- Lady and Madame - Ponte said desencasquetándose hat with great difficulty
-.

Caballero I am and I know how to deal with price of elegant ladies, but as of this has left the
absurd species, I come to ask for explanations. My honor demands it ...

- What have we to do with the honor of you, so scarecrow? - Cried Juliana -. Ea decent person who is
not lacking in the ladies! The other day was for you empresses and now ...

- And now - Ponte said, trembling at the strong accent of Juliana, as wind whipped cane -. And
now ... I do not disrespect the ladies. Obdulia is a lady, Doña Francisca
another lady.

But these ladies ladies ... I have been slandered, I have hurt my
feelings more pure claiming that I made the cut to Benina ... and
that required at rogue loves to by me and me missing the loyalty owed
to the gentleman from Saudi ...

- If we do not have said such nonsense!

-
All Madrid repeats ... Here in these rooms came the unworthy species.

They accuse me of an infamous crime: having laid eyes on an angel, white wings celica purity
immaculate. Know that I respect the angels, if Nina was mortal creature, would not have respected,
because I'ma man ... I have tasted blondes and brunettes, married, widows and maids, Spanish
and Parisian, and no I have resisted, because I deserve it ... Permanent Beauty I am ... But
I have not seduced angels, nor the allure ... Sepal you Frasquita, sepal, Obdulia ... The Nina
is not of this world ... Nina belongs to the sky ... Dressed in poverty has begged to keep you
and me ... and women that do, I do not seduce, I can not seduce her, I can not woo ... My beauty
is human, and divine it; My face is splendid mortal flesh, and it's light blue ... No, no, I have
not seduced was not mine, is of God ... And I tell you, Curra Juarez, Ronda, to you, now can
not move, what you weighed in the ingratitude body ... Yo, I am grateful I'm a boom, and flight ...
as you see ... You, being ungrateful is lead, and is crushed against the ground ... as you see
...».

Mother and daughter distraught, screaming for help from neighbors.

But Juliana, more courageous and expeditiously, unable to endure calmly irrelevant ravings of
unhappy Ponte, it was angry at him, took him by the lapels, and comiéndoselo with the look and
voice said: "Unless you start early this house, so mess, you throw him off the balcony."

And surely he would have done, if Hillary and Daniela cogieran not the poor son of Algeciras, putting
in two pulls out of the door. Presented themselves doormen and neighbors, attracted to the
uproar, and saw many people gathered, the four women went to the landing of steps to explain
that this man had lost his mind, the more chips attentive and courteous person in the world,
the most importunate and shameless. Frasquito fell limp to the next plateau: there he stood, looking
up, and said: "Ungrateful, ingrrr ...». Wanted end of the word, and a violent contortion denounced
the futility of their efforts. Of His mouth did not go more than a hoarse roar, as if invisible
hand strangle him. Were all to be decomposed horribly factions, eyes popped out of the helmet,
mouth approached one ear ... He raised his arms, breathed a sigh! distressing, and collapsed
at once. In the fall of his body shook from top to bottom all the flimsy ladder.

Subiéronle four to the house to provide relief, he did not need the unhappy. Reconociole Juliana,
and said dryly: "It is as dead as my grandfather."

Final

Admirable example of the effects of human will in the governance of large and small groups of
beings, was Juliana, unprincipled woman, who could barely read and write, but he had received
from Nature the rare gift of organizing life and govern the actions of others. If you fell under
the hands of Zapata family would have played more stem family rule, or an island, or state, would
have gone very graceful. In the island of Dona Francisca established with a firm hand to normal
a month after wielded the reins, and all went right there and no one dare not put rebullía question
their irrevocable mandates. True that to get this beautiful result used pure absolutism, the
regime of terror, his genius did not admit even timid comments: His
law was his holy will, his logic, the stick.

In the anemic character of the mother and the children are not coming bad this system, tested
and Antonio with happy success. Came to exercise such dominion over Dona Francisca, the poor
widow would not even pray the Our Father without asking your permission to the dictator, and
even warned before sighing, as so often did, watching her as if to say: "No I will carry the wrong
way a little sigh. " In all was obeyed blindly by Juliana Mom politics, except one thing. Mandábale
that was not always sad, and although the slave responded with statements of compliance, it
was put to see that the order was not fulfilled. Entered, So Zapata's widow in prosperous normal existence
with his head down, the droopy eyes, looking vaguely lost in the drawings of the mat, the body
lounging, fond every day with the indolence, the decadent appetite,
moody and surly mood, ideas black.

Fifteen days after settling in the street Dona Francisca de Orellana, who judged the bossy
His power would be more effective and better governed the family would live together: general
and subordinates. Trasladose, then, and there was putting his humble furnishings, and their
kids, and the mistress, for which previously made hole, throwing out the sea of ​​plant pots
and vases, and putting in the street to Daniela, who in fact served
no more than a hindrance.

A functions Chancellor of the girl soon added, and vanity of her mother and sister. Thus all stayed
home.

But as there is no complete happiness in this naughty world, a month or so, the move, indicated
in the ephemeris zapatescas by the disastrous death of Frasquito Ponte Delgado, Juliana began
to suffer strange changes in your health. Which by its lush had shown strength in comparison to the
mules, was the folly of suffering as contrary to their natural perfect balance. What was it? Nervous
and gusts humbugs hysteria, disorders that Juliana had laughed more
than once, attributing them to fuss women and self-perceived mimosas,
which, she said, husbands cured syrup ash.

Juliana began badly for insomnia rebels got up every morning without slept a wink, a few days
of insomnia began to lose their appetite, and, finally, not Sleeping added fearful and anxious fears
at night, and a melancholy day black, heavy, funereal. The worst thing for the family was that
with these annoying alifafes not attenuated the absolute ruler of the tyrant, but it was getting
worse.

Antonio was proposing to remove walk, walk and she sent him a hundred thousand pairs of demons.
Made himself indifferent, and foul-mouthed, rude, obnoxious.

Finally, his hysterical obsessions were condensed into one, on the idea that twins not in good health.
Worth anything extraordinary evidence of the robustness of the children. With care around them,
and lengthy and meticulous care in put conservation, resented, made
them mourn.

At night we threw the bed ensuring creatures that swam in blood, their throats slit by a murderer
invisible. If coughing, was that drowning, if they ate poorly, was that they had been poisoned.

One
morning he got out, with a shawl and headscarf, and went to neighborhoods Benina looking South,
with whom he was to speak. And by God did not spend a few hours to find it, because they no
longer lived in Santa Casilda, but in the fifth hell, that is in Toledo road on the left of
the bridge. There he found irksome after investigations, whirling and detours for those lost villages.
He lived alone with I dwell in a house, which looked more like hut, located on the grounds
that dominate the road to the south. Almudena was improving of the disgusting skin disease,
but still looked his masked face nasty scab: never left the house, and was all alone Happy Birthday
to earn a living begging in San Andrés. Juliana little surprised not to see it in looks good health,
and also happy, calm the spirit, and well established in the foundation
conformity with their lot.

"I come to quarrel with you, Sena Benina - said sitting on a stone in front of the shack next
to the trough in which the poor woman washed, at a respectful distance
from the blind, echadito in the shade -.

Yes, ma'am, because you got to go pick up the leftovers in our home, and did not seem that
way, nor have we seen him hair.

- Well, I say, Madam Juliana - said Nina -. You can believe that there has been contempt, not lady,
it was not contempt. Is not what I needed. I have other food from home, which and what I get enough
for us, and so, well you give to other poor, and to his conscience is the same ... What do
you know? What who gives me food? I see you quite curious. Well I that blessed charity to
D. Romualdo Kidron ... I've met in San Andres, where it says Mass ... Yes, ma'am, D. Romualdo, who
is a saint, so you know ... And I am sure After much thought, other
than the D. Romualdo that I invented, but one that looks like seem
to him as two drops of water.

Invent a few things that come after truth, or truths, prior to truth, a guess, lies are too fat ...
With it already knows. "

Edger declared that she was glad much of what he heard to refer, and that since Don Romualdo
favored it, Doña Paca and she would give up their leftover food to other needy. But something
more had to say: "I am indebted to you, Benin, because my mother arranged for political, who
rule with a silk thread, I point out to you two reales a day ...
As no We have seen it anywhere, I could meet you, but I weigh, I weigh
in actual consciousness both day and bring them here in fifteen pesetas,
making the whole month, Sena Benina.

- Well, I take it, yes indeed
- said Nina joyful -, that this is nothing to sneeze ... They come
to me pesetillas such as falls from heaven, because I have a debt
to the Pitusa, Midi Street Grande, and we fixed what was giving me
collect, and peseta to drive revenue.

With This brings me to the middle and a little more. Stones of these I come every day, Mrs.
Juliana. He knows that you thanks, and may God give health to herself, and her husband and the
kids. "

With word nervous, affluent and somewhat hyperbolic, said the little love he had no health
who suffered from a strange evil and incomprehensible.

But take them with patience and care for any of his own person.
 This I do because at the beginning of your service a certain bargain was
made with you, and although you have sinned so deeply I will not suffer that the glorious honour
of the Abati people shall be tarnished even by the breath of suspicion. Get you gone, Wanderers,
and let us see your faces no more for ever!"

Now the mob gathered in the hall shouted in exultation, though I heard some crying out, "No,
kill them! Kill them!"

When the tumult had died down Maqueda spoke again saying:

"O noble and generous Abati, you approve of this deed of mercy; you who would not be held merciless
in far lands, O Abati, where, although you may not have heard of them, there are, I believe,
other peoples who think themselves as great as you. You would not have it whispered, I say,
that we who are the best of the world, we, the children of Solomon, have dealt harshly even
with stray dogs that have wandered to our gates? Moreover, we called these dogs to hunt a certain
beast for us, the lion-headed beast called Fung, and, to be just to them, they hunted well.
Therefore spare them the noose, though they may have deserved it, and let them run hence with
their bone, say you, the bone which they think that they have earned. What does a bone more
or less matter to the rich Abati, if only their holy ground is not defiled with the blood of
Gentile dogs?"

"Nothing at all! Nothing at all!" they shouted. "Tie it to their tails and let them go!"

"It shall be done, O my people! And now that we have finished with these dogs, I have another
word to say to you. You may have thought or heard that I was too fond of them, and especially
of one of them," and she glanced toward Oliver. "Well, there are certain dogs who will not
work unless you pat them on the head. Therefore I patted this one on the head, since, after
all, he is a clever dog who knows things that we do not know; for instance, how to destroy
the idol of the Fung. O great Abati, can any of you really have believed that I, of the ancient
race of Solomon and Sheba, I, the Child of Kings, purposed to give my noble hand to a vagrant
Gentile come hither for hire? Can you really have believed that I, the solemnly betrothed to
yonder Prince of Princes, Joshua, my uncle, would for a moment even in my heart have preferred
to him such a man as that?" And once again she looked at Oliver, who made a wild motion, as
though he were about to speak. But before he could so much as open his lips Maqueda went on:

"Well, if you believed, not guessing all the while I was working for the safety of my people,
soon shall you be undeceived, since to-morrow night I invite you to the great ceremony of my
nuptials, when, according to the ancient custom, I break the glass with him whom on the following
night I take to be my husband," and rising, she bowed thrice to the audience, then stretched
out her hand to Joshua.

He, too, rose, puffing himself out like a great turkey-cock, and, taking her hand, kissed it,
gobbling some words which we did not catch.

Wild cheering followed, and in the momentary silence which followed Oliver spoke.

"Lady," he said, in a cold and bitter voice, "we 'Gentiles' have heard your words. We thank
you for your kind acknowledgment of our services, namely, the destruction of the idol of the
Fung at the cost of some risk and labour to ourselves. We thank you also for your generosity
in allowing us, as the reward of that service, to depart from Mur, with insult and hard words,
and such goods as remain to us, instead of consigning us to death by torture, as you and your
Council have the power to do. It is indeed a proof of your generosity, and of that of the Abati
people which we shall always remember and repeat in our own land, should we live to reach it.
Also, we trust that it will come to the ears of the savage Fung, so that at length they may
understand that true nobility and greatness lie not in brutal deeds of arms, but in the hearts
of men. But now, Walda Nagasta, I have a last request to make of you, namely, that I may see
your face once more to be sure that it is you who have spoken to us, and not another beneath
your veil, and that if this be so, I may carry away with me a faithful picture of one so true
to her country and noble to her guests as you have shown yourself this day."

She listened, then very slowly lifted her veil, revealing such a countenance as I had never
seen before. It was Maqueda without a doubt, but Maqueda changed. Her face was pale, which
was only to be expected after all she had gone through; her eyes glowed in it like coals, her
lips were set. But it was her expression, at once defiant and agonized, which impressed me
so much that I never shall forget it. I confess I could not read it in the least, but it left
upon my mind the belief that she was a false woman, and yet ashamed of her own falsity. There
was the greatest triumph of her art, that in those terrible circumstances she should still
have succeeded in conveying to me, and to the hundreds of others who watched, this conviction
of her own turpitude.

For a moment her eyes met those of Orme, but although he searched them with pleading and despair
in his glance, I could trace in hers no relenting sign, but only challenge not unmixed with
mockery. Then with a short, hard laugh she let fall her veil again and turned to talk with
Joshua. Oliver stood silent a little while, long enough for Higgs to whisper to me:

"I say, isn't this downright awful? I'd rather be back in the den of lions than live to see it."

As he spoke I saw Oliver put his hand to where his revolver usually hung, but, of course, it
had been taken from him. Next he began to search in his pocket, and finding that tabloid of
poison which I had given him, lifted it toward his mouth. But just as it touched his lips,
my son, who was next to him, saw also. With a quick motion he struck it from his fingers, and
ground it to powder on the floor beneath his heel.

Oliver raised his arm as though to hit him, then without a sound fell senseless. Evidently
Maqueda noted all this also, for I saw a kind of quiver go through her, and her hands gripped
the arms of her chair till the knuckles showed white beneath the skin. But she only said:

"This Gentile has fainted because he is disappointed with his reward. Take him hence and let
his companion, the Doctor Adams, attend to him. When he is recovered, conduct them all from
Mur as I have decreed. See that they go unharmed, taking with them plenty of food lest it be
said that we only spared their lives here in order that they might starve without our gates."

Then waving her hand to show that the matter was done with, she rose and, followed by the judges
and officers, left the court by some door behind them.

While she spoke a strong body of guards had surrounded us, some of whom came forward and lifted
the senseless Oliver on to a stretcher. They carried him down the court, the rest of us following.

"Look," jeered the Abati as he passed, "look at the Gentile pig who thought to wear the Bud
of the Rose upon his bosom. He has got the thorn now, not the rose. Is the swine dead, think you?"

Thus they mocked him and us.

We reached our prison in safety, and there I set to work to revive Oliver, a task in which
I succeeded at length. When he had come to himself again he drank a cup of water, and said
quite quietly:

"You fellows have seen all, so there is no need for talk and explanations. One thing I beg
of you, if you are any friends of mine, and it is that you will not reproach or even speak
of Maqueda to me. Doubtless she had reasons for what she did; moreover, her bringing up has
not been the same as ours, and her code is different. Do not let us judge her. I have been
a great fool, that is all, and now I am paying for my folly, or, rather, I have paid. Come,
let us have some dinner, for we don't know when we shall get another meal."

We listened to this speech in silence, only I saw Roderick turn aside to hide a smile and wondered
why he smiled.

Scarcely had we finished eating, or pretending to eat, when an officer entered the room and
informed us roughly that it was time for us to be going. But he was repelled how
sensitive this office, and would not leave her quiet and that it was dark live so happy. If
finally accepted Bringas, would go only to his island, and the bereaved wife Madrid would be
free to release all those clothes I wanted. But being the most likely that the great economist did
not accept, Rosalia brains warmed output flowing commitment, and finally found a formula that,
long before the opportunity to use it, stirring and rehearsed in his mind.

XVI

You see, my son - he said to himself a month before the fact
were true - which has happened ... Not to be meant for you not upset,
because after our friend is, and at home This work has been done.

Emilia demanded payment in advance ... Pure stubbornness. Suddenly, shot! ... Nephew passed
the bill. Neither one nor the other could not answer the poor Miracles ... You have no idea
of ​​the monkey business ... I'll tell you. Anyway, I had to stay with dresses for less than
a third of its value and so I've managed myself to not spend ... Is given, is a real bargain ...
Emilia has committed it, and says paid when I want ... You see ...

The comedy was well prepared for when the case came to represent. Meanwhile, are working tirelessly
in the Camon, with the assistance of Milagros, who every day had
a novelty, happy ideas, inspiration latest prolific genius, verbi
gratia:

"I can not be very splendid this summer.

You see how I dress. Home of the Children Rotondo gave me twenty-five yards Bareges very arregladito
... I have said San Salomó that Bareges will be a lot this summer. Frankly, I Mozambique suck
ya ... Yes ... fix the dress with a truly pastoral simplicity. See
you ... three leaflets and thin silk trim.

The narrow flounce, trimmed with lace and inset, embroidery, pad forming to hockey ... Purple
belt closed front a escarapelita ... Did you know that hat I think is loud? ... I have another
in the project. You see. I keep a cap last year and those tapes velvet ... I lack no more
than a plume and a marabout of novelty that will put the right side and ...».

In early May, Rosalia had to escape, not without regret, to this delightful work. The doctor had
ordered Isabelita was taken out for a walk every morning. The weather was beautiful and guests
to enjoy the quiet amenity of the Retiro. Began the lady walks with Isabelita morning and the
little, and since the second day were added Mr. Fish, rebels who suffered from loss of appetite.
Moreno Rubio had prescribed that morning, which put under his belt
a large glass of water from the Egyptian source or Health and that
strolled after for two hours before lunchtime.

How happy would the four to the reserve, whose entry will be crossed, because Rosalie of the house!
And how much the kids enjoyed seeing the house of the Poor, Smuggler's and Persian, throwing crumbs
to the ducks Fisherman's house, going to the race spirals of artificial mountain, which is
really the height of artifice! All those royal whims, as well as menagerie, declare the reign
of Ferdinand VII, that if policy was brutal, arts was pure nonsense.

Rosalie and D. Manuel, favorably influenced by the show of the vegetation, the fresh itching
air and sun of May, budded, and at times almost like kids were so kids, that is, talking recklessly,
and his gait was not always as measured corresponding to serious people, since he rushed, and it
contained more of the account while the children played hide and seek among the thick bushes.
The glass of water, working marvelously on the mucosa and the entire
digestive tract of good official, produced wonderful effects.

Activated its vital functions, regained his joy and pompous verbosity: instincts Gallant did
not stay back on that resurrection morning. It seems incredible that a glass water, producing
such effects. How many times have on hand without being aware of it, the cure of inveterate evils!
... The easy word Pez, jumping from one concept to another, came to the chapter of flattery,
in that case were very reasonable, and there was the weight the freshness and grace of the lady. How well
you feel everything that was going down, and what majesty he bears! Few people had as she the art
of dressing and the secret of making smart terms of use ... These puffs of incense drowned
Rosalie, I mean, the deposit vanity (some bladder that fools are on the chest) is extremely
inflated and only allowed to breathe. She also tickled inside the desire to some confidence,
but respect for her husband put a brake. Finally, rather extreme Fish the eulogies of her indiscretion
that overcame prudence. We saw several Sometimes they returned, she charged her with a bouquet
of lilacs, the veil a little thrown back, which if composure to sacrifice freedom of country
life, the face somewhat ignition agitation of the ride and the vehemence of the speech, he charged
with another class supplementary Pollastre made with ten years removed by magic off your body,
children, fluttering prays in front, sometimes behind, getting dirty ground and beaten with sticks,
shaking the trees tender and jumping ditches mother outputs. Rosalie spoke, but who but the same
Pez, could pick his words, imbued with a sweet melancholy and despair?

The poor girl could not wear anything because her husband ... Above all, do not tire of repeating
he was an angel, a being of perfection ... But this did not remove it very cheap and that I had
a bad subject to bring, tarnished and forgotten. And it was certainly not because they lacked
media, as Bringas had their savings, meeting room to room. And why? To damn the thing, for the simple
pleasure of collecting coins and count one and looked again Cajoncillo of sometimes ... No doubt
this man ... it was very good, yes, but no husband and father excellent ... could not put his
wife in the range that corresponded to both of their position.

Because she had to mingle with people over viso, with titles and the Queen herself; and Bringas,
not seeing things rather than through the eyes of misery, was determined to reduce the dress
merino and four rags outdated and ugly. Oh, what she suffered, which penalized him for clean
up was incredible. Only God and she knew it! ... Because her husband had been account and reason
for everything, even the parsley was spent in the kitchen resulted in figures in your notebook
... The poor wife, attentive to the dignity of their social position, was a pure Newton, mathematics
had to scramble in order to procure a caletre excess expenditure of the house and stretch the petty
amounts Bringas gave dressing. The wretched fingers are peeling sewing and arranging his clothes,
and detail of it in the account and why it was so extreme that it looked and wanted to one day be
able to filter three reals, another two and a half, and sometimes could do nothing. The continuity
of such disorders was a life of martyrdom, not that he wanted to have luxury, no: but judge that
his decency and contact people with high inescapable duties imposed on him, believing that
she and the children they should not make bad role in the houses where they were, did not
like the friends of mirasen sideways and whispered among themselves, noting it as a skirt or
a piece inlaid cheesy and outdated ... However, her husband dearly wanted, because outside of that
of the misery was a complete man, a being of choice, good and loving, honest and just or as
any man I ever had or tried fiddling with whores, and since a drive to a letter, and finally,
to temper so peaceful, that he would not be rapping at his budget, it made him what he wanted
... Considering this, the unfortunate patient had with the other, ie apurillos dressing, and could
be handled as not to detract from its high class ... Where was that both Mr. and Mrs. Fish had
respectively Rosalia their reasons for marital disagreement, he furious because of the sanctities
of his wife, sordideces her by her husband, which proves that no one is complete in this wretched
world, and it is rare to find two characters in full and mutual accommodation inside the cage
of marriage, as the devil or God or society puzzle and change partners for all rage, and everyone,
each in his cage, do merit for eternal glory.

XVII

When the conversation turned to these philosophies, going out the door of the pavilion. They were already
torn up the famous malls Buckeyes, removed the fence and posts land for sale, an operation called
trait. This word was very unfortunate for Monarchy tree who earned no more ancient than the
brown, because I also will uprooted and made firewood of it.

Going from Retiro to the streets, visitors regained their composure. Iban before the children
holding hands.

The elderly, in view of the regular population, ceased in those confidence
that seemed tasty fruit farm amenity.

It was like going from a country free to one where everything is correct and regulations. At home,
when he worked in the Camon alone or with Emilia, Bringas used to chew the expansions in the
morning, adding conceptillos they did not dare to cross the borders of thought. Without neglecting
rags, dreamy lady went out into the world, exercising the right to review and correction social
things, granted in the realm of mind to all those who think outside
their place or mismatched.

"That fish really is a man. Next to him if it could look any woman of understanding, good presence,
aristocratic bearing. But like everything is bartered touched that mule rezone Carolina ... Head
over heels! What woman of merit and not dwarfed beside this void Bringas little-thing, which sees
only trifles, and is unable to make a brilliant career and put on an illustrious position?
... Ya, what can you expect from a man who when offered a government, instead of jumping for
joy is set to give sigh and say, 'more the stick I like my tools ?...» Oh, Fish, that really
is man!

I know I do women would fall if things in the world were on the right and each person on your site.
For such a man, a woman of principles, glib, very fine lady of manners, and honor her husband knew
themselves by honoring their own, who knew him showing off showcasing herself, a lady who grew
every day making it grow, because the secret of the bright careers of some men is in the talent
of its women. Paquito said yesterday that Napoleon would have been nothing without Josephine.
If instead of this blessed fish live beside a lady in their classrooms meet the elite of politics,
and fish would minister ... Really ... If I had my hand a similar subject ...! But you go to
minister to Bringas, a man who gets angry when water should be given to anyone azucarillo comes
home, a man who wants me to view the habit and take the children with sandals. Ah, grungy, declined,
you will never be anything ... Oh Fish!, If you had married the woman who you belong, how
you had to consent to go out to the street made to put an eyesore ridiculous? ... Learn how you, bobo,
who with fifty thousand pieces of living paycheck to appearance twelve thousand dollars in income
and pay twenty-four thousand real home. And not that I have debts, is known agencies and takes
advantage of his position. This no one will ever know a little-thing a stepping-ant is preaching
me three hours because I put or not put seven chickpeas in the stew, this does not mean he does
not see beyond their salary mean, and is shaking they give you a cross for not buying the
badges, who does not want to be governor of a province, who opposes the waterboy me up two more
water tanks, because, he said, with the palm wet enough already, who says I do not need more
than eighteen rods cloth for a dress, and recommended me to adorn the hats of the children with
damask ribbon of the graduates that the army used to hang the spliff, who argues that goat hair is more
beautiful than the gro, and heaviness in the hood called just because they are cheap; who will
not let me fix the Ottoman gown with ribbons and dared to propose to use yellow tape decks
Augustine ...». cousin cigars

Some evenings, when Fish and Rosalie could not get out to the terrace because of bad weather,
three salons in Gasparini. They had to hear the compliments D. Manuel was of great work of
his friend. Standing beside him, with his left hand in your pocket, chewing mustache, looks
critically dropped on the glass so wonderful town of hairs and human head hair in some parts, other
clear, all as clean-shaven, gummy, sticky, shiny, similar to the drippings scented toiletries.

"It
is a wonder ... What hands!, What patience! This work should go to a museum. "

And yes, chewing and getting more stronger hand in your pocket

"What a mess ... It's like that head out of cork. Only you, you big silly make such grotesque,
and only my wife likes ... You are the one to the other. "

He retired from work that day D. Francisco more tired than ever. Saw double objects and his head
was so dizzy as if on board a ship.

But he was confident that such unease would be temporary, and welcomed
the advancement and beautiful effect of the work.

The angel was completely modeled and with those incredible hair points.

Willow protected with the tomb weeping branches, and it was unfortunate that there were no green
hair, as if such there was the illusion would be complete.

At the end nothing was missing and he was a model of perspective melancholy, so much so that
only those who had heart of rock could see it without feeling winning pout. There were still
flowers from the floor and the entire first term, where Bringas was running late to a broken
and fallen columns and ruined temple with which the idea of ​​desolation was represented the
most perfect way.

In early June we saw some of this work completed, but there were still several small things,
Sunflowers little ones, big thoughts, not to mention a few butterflies sentimental black wings,
perched here and there, sipping the sweet Macassar in the calyxes of the flowers piliform. On
the same day the events occurred, which the artist was completely
worth strange, but for this reason it should not be forgotten here.

And was that when approaching the day appointed for their money back to Torres, Rosalie was so
crestfallen, which could be believe, seeing that he had stolen anything or inferred a huge
offense. Calculations and more calculations made, disrupting the brain, without actually solving
the problem feared and negábanse numbers to please, giving the figure I needed ... What an idea!
Would come " Mr. Fish? Oh, if I called this door would surely be heard, but did not dare. In addition,
D. Manuel is going at the time to Archena baths (because without a pair of annual fairings man
was lost), and would not return until 20. The 12 is presented Torres with his eyes of eggs
imbued with a sweet hard stunned.
 This I know because he has told me that he alone saw through my plan to save all their
lives, but said nothing of it because he desired to escape from Mur, where certain death waited
on him and his companions. Perhaps, however, he lies to please me.

Now, for the truth of the matter, which not being skilled in writing I will tell briefly.

I was carried out of the cave city with my lord and the others, starving, starving, too weak
to kill myself, which otherwise I would have done rather than fall into the hands of my accursed
uncle, Joshua. Yet I was stronger than the rest, because as I have learned, they tricked me
about those biscuits, pretending to eat when they were not eating, for which never will I forgive
them. It was Japhet, a gallant man on one side, but a coward on the other like the rest of
the Abati, who betrayed us, driven thereto by emptiness within, which, after all, is an ill
enemy to fight. He went out and told Joshua where we lay hid, and then, of course, they came.

Well, they took away my lord and the others, and me too they bore to another place and fed
me till my strength returned, and oh! how good was that honey which first I ate, for I could
touch nothing else. When I was strong again came Prince Joshua to me and said, "Now I have
you in my net; now you are mine."

Then I answered Joshua, "Fool, your net is of air; I will fly through it."

"How?" he asked. "By death," I answered, "of which a hundred means lie to my hand. You have
robbed me of one, but what does that matter when so many remain? I will go where you and your
love cannot pursue me."

"Very well, Child of Kings," he said, "but how about that tall Gentile who has caught your
eyes, and his companions? They, too, have recovered, and they shall die every one of them after
a certain fashion (which, I Maqueda, will not set down, since there are some things that ought
not to be written). If you die, they die; as I told you, they die as a wolf dies that is caught
by the shepherds; they die as a baboon dies that is caught by the husbandman."

Now I looked this way and that, and found that there was no escape. So I made a bargain.

"Joshua," I said, "let these men go and I swear upon the name of our mother, she of Sheba,
that I will marry you. Keep them and kill them, and you will have none of me."

Well, in the end, because he desired me and the power that went with me, he consented.

Then I played my part. My lord and his companions were brought before me, and in presence of
all the people I mocked them; I spat in their faces, and oh! fools, fools, fools, they believed
me! I lifted my veil, and showed them my eyes, and they believed also what they seemed to see
in my eyes, forgetting that I am a woman who can play a part at need. Yes, they forgot that
there were others to deceive as well, all the Abati people, who, if they thought I tricked
them, would have torn the foreigners limb from limb. That was my bitterest morsel, that I should
have succeeded in making even my own lord believe that of all the wicked women that ever trod
this world, I was the most vile. Yet I did so, and he cannot deny it, for often we have talked
of this thing till he will hear of it no more.

Well, they went with all that I could give them, though I knew well that my lord cared nothing,
for what I could give, nor the doctor, Child of Adam, either, who cared only for his son that
God had restored to him. Only Black Windows cared, not because he loves wealth, but because
he worships all that is old and ugly, for of such things he fashions up his god.

They went, for their going was reported to me, and I, I entered into hell because I knew that
my lord thought me false, and that he would never learn the truth, namely, that what I did
I did to save his life, until at length he came to his own country, if ever he came there,
and opened the chests of treasure, if ever he opened them, which perhaps he would not care
to do. And all that while he would believe me the wife of Joshua, and--oh! I cannot write of
it. And I, I should be dead; I, I could not tell him the truth until he joined me in that land
of death, if there men and women can talk together any more.

For this and no other was the road that I had planned to walk. When he and his companions had
gone so far that they could not be followed, then I would tell Joshua and the Abati all the
truth in such language as should never be forgotten for generations, and kill myself before
their eyes, so that Joshua might lack a wife and the Abati a Child of Kings.

I sat through the Feast of Preparation and smiled and smiled. It passed and the next day passed,
and came the night of the Feast of Marriage. The glass was broken, the ceremony was fulfilled.
Joshua rose up to pledge me before all the priests, lords, and headmen. He devoured me with
his hateful eyes, me, who was already his. But I, I handled the knife in my robe, wishing,
such was the rage in my heart, that I could kill him also.

Then God spoke, and the dream that I had dreamed came true. Far away there rose a single cry,
and after it other cries, and the sounds of shouting and of marching feet. Far away tongues
of fire leapt into the air, and each man asked his neighbour, "What is this?" Then from all
the thousands of the feasting people rose one giant scream, and that scream said, "Fung! Fung!
The Fung are on us! Fly, fly, fly!"

"Come," shouted Joshua, seizing me by the arm, but I drew my dagger on him and he let go. Then
he fled with the other lords, and I remained in my high seat beneath the golden canopy alone.

The people fled past me without fighting; they fled into the cave city, they fled to the rocks;
they hid themselves among the precipices, and after them came the Fung, slaying and burning,
till all Mur went up in flames. And I, I sat and watched, waiting till it was time for me to
die also.

At last, I know not how long afterwards, appeared before me Barung, a red sword in his hand,
which he lifted to me in salute.

"Greeting, Child of Kings," he said. "You see Harmac is come to sleep at Mur."

"Yes," I answered, "Harmac is come to sleep at Mur, and many of those who dwelt there sleep
with him. What of it? Say, Barung, will you kill me, or shall I kill myself?"

"Neither, Child of Kings," he answered in his high fashion. "Did I not make you a promise yonder
in the Pass of Mur, when I spoke with you and the Western men, and does a Fung Sultan break
his word? I have taken back the city that was ours, as I swore to do, and purified it with
fire," and he pointed to the raging flames. "Now I will rebuild it, and you shall rule under me."

"Not so," I answered; "but in place of that promise I ask of you three things."

"Name them," said Barung.

"They are these: First, that you give me a good horse and five days' food, and let me go where
I will. Secondly, that if he still lives you advance one Japhet, a certain Mountaineer who
befriended me and brought others to do likewise, to a place of honour under you. Thirdly, that
you spare the rest of the Abati people."

"You shall go whither you desire, and I think I know where you will go," answered Barung. "Certain
spies of mine last night saw four white men riding on fine camels towards Egypt, and reported
it to me as I led my army to the secret pass that Harmac showed me, which you Abati could never
find. But I said, 'Let them go; it is right that brave men who have been the mock of the Abati
should be allowed their freedom.' Yes, I said this, although one of them was my daughter's
husband, or near to it. But she will have no more of him who fled to his father rather than
with her, so it was best that he should go also, since, if I brought him back it must be to
his death."

"Yes," I answered boldly, "I go after the Western men; I who have done with these Abati. I
wish to see new lands."

"And find an old love who thinks ill of you just now," he said, stroking his beard. "Well,
no wonder, for here has been a marriage feast. Say, what were you about to do, O Child of Kings?
Take the fat Joshua to your breast?"

"Nay, Barung, I was about to take this husband to my breast," and I showed him the knife that
was hidden in my marriage robe.

"No," he said, smiling, "I think the knife was for Joshua first. Still, you are a brave woman
who could save the life of him you love at the cost of your own. Yet, bethink you, Child of
Kings, for many a generation your mothers have been queens, and under me you may still remain
a queen. How will one whose blood has ruled so long endure to serve a Western man in a strange
land?"

"That is what I go to find out, Barung, and if I cannot endure, then I shall come back again,
though not to rule the Abati, of whom I wash my hands for ever. Yet, Barung, my heart tells
me I shall endure."

"The Child of Kings has spoken," he said, bowing to me. "My best horse awaits her, and five
of my bravest guards shall ride with her to keep her safe till she sights the camp of the Western
men. I say happy is he of them who was born to wear the sweet-scented Bud of the Rose upon
his bosom. For the rest, the man Japhet is in my hands. He yielded himself to me who would
not fight for his own people because of what they had done to his friends, the white men. Lastly,
already I have given orders that the slaying should cease, since I need the Abati to be my
slaves, they who are cowards, but cunning in many arts. Only one more man shall die," he added
sternly, "and that is Joshua, who would have taken me by a trick in the mouth of the pass.
So plead not for him, for by the head of Harmac it is in vain."

Now hearing this I did not plead, fearing lest I should anger Barung, and but waste my breath.

At daybreak I started on the horse, having with me the five Fung captains. As we crossed the
marketplace I met those that remained alive of the Abati, being driven in hordes like beasts,
to hear their doom. Among them was Prince Joshua, my uncle, whom a man led by a rope about
his neck, while another man thrust him forward from behind, since Joshua knew that he went
to his death and the road was one which he did not wish to travel. He saw me, and cast himself
down upon the ground, crying to me to save him. I told him that I could not, though it is the
truth, I swear it before God, that, notwithstanding all the evil he had worked toward me, toward
Oliver my lord, and his companions, bringing to his end that gallant man who died to protect
me, I would still have saved him if I could. But I could not, for although I tried once more,
Barung would not listen. So I answered:

"Plead, O Joshua, with him who has the power in Mur to-day, for I have none. You have fashioned
your own fate, and must travel the road you chose."

"What road do you ride, mounted on a horse of the plains, Maqueda? Oh! what need is there for
me to ask? You go to see that accursed Gentile whom I would I had killed by inches, as I would
that I could kill you."

Then calling me by evil names, Joshua sprang at me as though to strike me down, but he who
held the rope about his neck jerked him backward, so that he fell and I saw his face no more.

But oh! it was sad, that journey across the great square, for the captive Abati by hundreds--men,
women, and children together--with tears and lamentations cried to me to preserve them from
death or slavery at the hands of the Fung. But I answered:

"Your sins against me and the brave foreign men who fought so well for you I forgive, but search
your hearts, O Abati, and say if you can forgive yourselves? If you had listened to me and
to those whom I called in to help us, you might have beaten back the Fung, and remained free
for ever. But you were cowards; you would not learn to bear arms like men, you would not even
watch your mountain walls, and soon or late the people who refuse to be ready to fight must
fall and become the servants of those who are ready."

And now, my Oliver, I have no more to write, save that I am glad to have endured so many things,
and thereby win the joy that is mine to-day. Not yet have I, Maqueda, wished to reign again
in Mur, who have found another throne.

