After the night on which I had detected the intrigue of my employer and his wife, I began to
live emphatically "in clover," and accumulated money tolerably fast. All the parties concerned
treated me with the utmost consideration and respect. Mr. Romaine suffered me to do pretty
much as I pleased in the printing office, and so I enjoyed a very agreeable and leisurely time
of it, doing as much Sunday printing on my own account as I desired, and going to the theatre
as often as I wished. Mr. Anderson would occasionally slip a five dollar note into my hand,
at the same time enjoining me to "keep mum;" Mrs. Romaine, with her own fair hands, made me
a dozen superb shirts, supplied me with handkerchiefs, stockings and fancy cravats innumerable,
and so arranged it that when I returned from the theatre at night, a nice little supper awaited
me in the kitchen. These repasts she would sometimes share with me, for, like a sensible woman,
she was fond of all the good things of this life, including good eating and drinking. Anderson
would join us occasionally, and a snug, cosy little party we made. Mrs. Raymond, the pretty
widow, was not backward in testifying to me how grateful she was for my silence with reference
to her frailty. She made me frequent presents of money, and gave me an elegant and valuable
ring, which I wore until the "intervention of unfortunate circumstance" compelled me to consign
it to the custody of "my uncle"--not my beloved relative of Thomas street, (peace to his memory,
for he has gone the way of all pork,)--but that accommodating uncle of mine and everybody else,
Mr. Simpson, who dwelleth in the Rue de Chatham, and whose mansion is decorated with three
gilded balls. Kind, convenient Uncle Simpson!

Ah! those were my halcyon days, when not a single care cast its shadow o'er my soul. As I think
of that season of unalloyed happiness, I involuntarily exclaim, in the words of a fine popular
song--

"I would I were a boy again!"

Three years passed away, unmarked by the occurrence of any event of sufficient importance to
merit a place in this narrative. When I reached my fifteenth year, the fashionable boarding-house
of Mrs. Romaine became the scene of a tragedy so bloody, so awful and so appalling, that even
now, while I think and write about it, my blood runs cold in my veins. That terrible affair
can no more be obliterated from my memory than can the sun be effaced from the arch of heaven;
and to my dying day, its recollection will continue to haunt me like a hideous spectre.

But I must devote a separate chapter to the details of that sanguinary event. I would gladly
escape from the task of describing it; but, of course, were I to omit it, this narrative would
be incomplete. Therefore the unwelcome duty must be performed.

CHAPTER III

In which is enacted a bloody tragedy.

I began to observe with considerable uneasiness, that Mr. Romaine stealthily regarded his wife
with looks of intense hatred and malignant ferocity; then he would transfer his gaze from her
to Mr. Anderson, who was altogether unconscious of the scrutiny. My employer was usually a
very quiet man, but I knew that his passions were very violent, and that, when once thoroughly
aroused, he was capable of perpetrating almost any act of savage vengeance. I began to fear
that he suspected the intimacy which existed between his adulterous wife and her paramour.
By the way it may be as well to remark that I had never told either Anderson or Mrs. Romaine
of the intrigue between Mr. Romaine and the widow, Mrs. Raymond; and it is scarcely necessary
to observe that I was equally discreet in withholding from my employer and his "ladye love"
all knowledge of the state of affairs between the other parties.

I communicated my fears to Mr. Anderson, but he laughed at them saying--

"Nonsense, my dear boy--why should Romaine suspect anything of the kind? I and Harriet (Mrs.
Romaine) have always been very discreet and careful. Our intimacy began three or four years
ago; and as it has lasted that length of time without discovery, it is scarcely likely to be
detected now. You are quite sure that you have given Romaine no hint of the affair?"

"Do you think me capable of such base treachery?" I demanded, with an offended air.

"Forgive me," said Anderson, "I did wrong to doubt you. Believe me, your fears are groundless;
however, I thank you for the caution, and shall hereafter exercise additional care, so as to
prevent the possibility of discovery. Here is a ticket for the opera to-night; when you return,
which will be about midnight, come to Harriet's room, and we three will sup like two kings
and a queen."

Having dressed myself with unusual care, I went to the opera. While listening to the divine
strains of a celebrated prima donna, my attention was attracted by a group occupying one of
the most conspicuous boxes. This group consisted of a youth apparently about my own age, and
two showy looking females whose dresses were cut so low as to reveal much more of their busts
than decency could sanction, even among an opera audience. There could be no doubt as to the
character of these two women. I examined their youthful cavalier with attention; and soon recognized
my quondum friend and pitcher--JACK SLACK. Jack was magnificently dressed, and his appearance
was truly superb. The most fastidious Parisian exquisite--even the great Count D'Orsay himself
might have envied him the arrangement of his hair, the tie of his cravat, the spotlessness
of his white kids. He flourished a glittering, jeweled lorgnette, and the way the fellow put
on "French airs" must have been a caution to the proudest scion of aristocracy in the house.

After a little while Jack saw me; and, having taken a good long stare at me through his opera-glass,
he beckoned me to come to him, at the same time pointing significantly at one of his "lady"
companions, as if to intimate that she was entirely at my disposal. But I shook my head, and
did not stir, for I had no desire to resume my acquaintance with that fascinating but mysterious
youth. Perhaps I entertained a presentiment that he was destined to become, to both of us,
the cause of a great misfortune.

Jack looked angry and disappointed, at my refusal to accept of his hospitable invitation. He
directed the attention of his women towards me, and I saw that they were attempting to titter
and sneer at my expense;--but the effort was a total failure, for there was not a better-dressed
person in the house than I was. Having honored the envious party with a smile of scorn,--which,
I flattered myself, was perfectly successful,--I turned towards the stage, and did not indulge
in another look at Jack or his friends during the remainder of the opera. I am convinced that
from that hour, Jack Slack became my mortal foe.

At the conclusion of the performances, I left the house and saw Jack getting into a carriage
with the two courtezans. He observed me, and uttered a decisive shout, to which I paid no attention,
but hurried home, anxious to make one of the little party in the apartment of Mrs. Romaine,
and quite ready to partake of the delicacies which, I knew, would be provided.

On my arrival home, I immediately repaired to Mrs. Romaine's private room, where I found that
good lady in company with Mr. Anderson. We three sat down to supper in the highest possible
spirits. Alas! how little did we anticipate the terrible catastrophe that was so soon to follow!

The more substantial portion of the banquet having been disposed of, the sparkling wine-cup
was circulated freely, and we became very gay and jovial. Unrestrained by my presence, and
exhilarated by the rosy beverage of jolly Bacchus, the lovers indulged in many little acts
of tender dalliance. Always making it a point to mind my own business, I applied myself diligently
to the bottle, for the wine was excellent and the sardines had made me thirsty. I had just
lighted a cigar, and was resigning myself to the luxurious and deliciously soothing influence
of the weed, when the door was thrown violently open, and Mr. Romaine rushed into the room.

His appearance was frightful! his face was dreadfully pale, and his eyes glared with the combined
fires of jealousy and rage. Intense excitement caused him to quiver in every limb. In one hand
he grasped a pistol, and in the other a bowie knife of the largest and most formidable kind.

It was but too evident that my fears had been well founded, and that Mr. Romaine had discovered
the intimacy between Anderson and his wife.

The reader will agree with me that the "injured husband" was equally culpable on account of
his intrigue with the young and handsome widow, Mrs. Raymond.--How prone are many people to
lose sight of their own imperfections while they censure and severely punish the failings of
those who are not a whit more guilty than themselves! The swinish glutton condemns the drunkard--the
villainous seducer reproves the frequenter of brothels--the arch hypocrite takes to task the
open, undisguised sinner--and the rich, miserly old reprobate, whose wealth places him above
the possibility of ever coming to want, who would sooner "hang the guiltless than eat his mutton
cold," and who would not bestow a cent upon a poor devil to keep him from starving--that old
rascal, perhaps, in his capacity as a magistrate, sentences to jail an unfortunate man whom
hunger has driven into the "crime" of stealing a loaf of bread! Bah! ladies and gentlemen,
take the beams out of your own eyes before you allude to the motes in the optics of your fellow
beings. That's my advice, free of charge.

On seeing her husband enter in that furious and threatening manner, Mrs. Romaine, overcome
with fear and shame--for she well knew that her guilt had been detected--fell to the floor
insensible. Anderson, confused and not knowing what to say, sat motionless as a statue;--while
I awaited, with almost trembling anxiety, the issue of this most extraordinary state of affairs.

Romaine was the first to break the silence, and he spoke in a tone of voice that was singularly
calm considering his physical agitation.

"Well, sir," said he, addressing Anderson--"you are enjoying yourself finely--drinking my wine,
devouring my provisions, and making love to my wife in her own bed-chamber. Anderson, for some
time past I have suspected you and Harriet of being guilty of criminal intimacy. I have noticed
your secret signs, and have read and interpreted the language of your eyes, whenever you and
she have exchanged glances in my presence. You both took me to be a weak fool, too blind and
imbecile to detect your adulterous intercourse; but I have now come to convince you that I
am a man capable of avenging his ruined conjugal honor!"

Anderson, recovering some degree of his usual self-possession, remarked,

"Your accusation, sir, is unjust. Your wife and myself are friends, and nothing more. She invited
me to sup with her here to-night and that is all about it. If our intentions were criminal,
would we have courted the presence of a third party?"

With these words, Anderson pointed towards me, but Romaine, without observing me at all, continued
to address the paramour of his wife.

