By walking across any considerable mountain chain, as, for instance, that of the Alleghanies,
it is generally possible to trace a number of these parallel up-and-down folds of the strata,
so that we readily perceive that the original beds had been packed together into a much less
space than they at first occupied. In some cases we could prove that the shortening of the
line has amounted to a hundred miles or more--in other words, points on the plain lands on
either side of the mountain range which now exists may have been brought a hundred miles or
so nearer together than they were before the elevations were produced. The reader can make
for himself a convenient diagram showing what occurred by pressing a number of leaves of this
book so that the sheets of paper are thrown into ridges and furrows. By this experiment he
also will see that the easiest way to account for such foldings as we observe in mountains
is by the supposition that some force residing in the earth tends to shove the beds into a
smaller space than they originally occupied. Not only are the rocks composing the mountains
much folded, but they are often broken through after the manner of masonry which has been subjected
to earthquake shocks, or of ice which has been strained by the expansion that affects it as
it becomes warmed before it is melted. In fact, many of our small lakes in New England and
in other countries of a long winter show in a miniature way during times of thawing ice folds
which much resemble mountain arches.

At first geologists were disposed to attribute all the phenomena of mountain-folding to the
progressive cooling of the earth. Although this sphere has already lost a large part of the
heat with which it was in the beginning endowed, it is still very hot in its deeper parts,
as is shown by the phenomena of volcanoes. This internal heat, which to the present day at
the depth of a hundred miles below the surface is probably greater than that of molten iron,
is constantly flowing away into space; probably enough of it goes away on the average each
day to melt a hundred cubic miles or more of ice, or, in more scientific phrase, the amount
of heat rendered latent by melting that volume of frozen water. J.R. Meyer, an eminent physicist,
estimated the quantity of heat so escaping each day of the year to be sufficient to melt two
hundred and forty cubic miles of ice. The effect of this loss of heat is constantly to shrink
the volume of the earth; it has, indeed, been estimated that the sphere on this account contracts
on the average to the amount of some inches each thousand years. For the reason that almost
all this heat goes from the depths of the earth, the cool outer portion losing no considerable
part of it, the contraction that is brought about affects the interior portions of the sphere
alone. The inner mass constantly shrinking as it loses heat, the outer, cold part is by its
weight forced to settle down, and can only accomplish this result by wrinkling. 

"But it is over now," continued Hicks, "I'll talk to the Councilor, and Hauser comes to me in the
care. "

"So that you will do me just a favor," said Quandt and walked erect
the room.

The teacher sat with downcast eyes. Hicks walked hastily up and down and dried with the sleeve
of his forehead. "Like me is how I am alone," he murmured, almost bewildered. Then He turned
back grumbling to Caspar. "Wretch condemned wretch! What a devil
came over you!

By the way, "he added softly, and stood next to Caspar, "The boy has been arrested and will
be delivered. If the Plassenburg the guy. "

"That's not true," said Caspar, also quietly, stretched and some singing.

He smiled, Then he laughed and laughed so that he, with his face turned pale strong.

Hickel was suspicious. He chewed on his lip and looked gloomily into
space.

Suddenly he attacked according to his cap, and with a nasty, hasty glance at Caspar he withdrew.

Quandt
was not inclined to the insult done to him the police lieutenant, is sitting on to leave. He
complained to the Councilor Hofmann, but he did not seem very willing to interfere. The teacher
took the opportunity to bring yet another matter to a head.

Since Feuerbach's death was the Councilor for the supervision of Caspar's care. To help as which was
the Count Stanhope likely no longer had the mayor and the Enders Community approached for
support, but a decision was still pending. Meanwhile Caspar received by the court a small pay
rise for his writing, the money provided he time the teachers.

The limited conditions did not allow him the slightest Freedom in its spending. In early October
he had been confirmed, and awaited with longing he called the daily
allowance, which had him suspended by the city for it.

Displeasure over the Disappearance, he turned to the priest Fuhrmann, advised him that he should
the teacher To ask to go to the municipal office to operate the payment.

"So

little do I not, your Excellency, I am not the supplicant, my pride allows not, "said Quandt.

The
Councilor shrugged his shoulders.

"Give him the few dollars it temporarily out of your pocket," he said, it "s certainly will replace
you soon."

is "In terms of the houses there are no certainties," said Quandt,
"I have already Expenses enough and do not know if I can see so far.

"

The Councilor thought. "He's still wealthy and powerful friends," he said, "can but help. "

"Oh my God," sighed the teacher, "which he is much too interesting
in that they at his little necessities think.

"

"I will come to you again tomorrow and the house to ask for what he
really so urgent Money needs, "concluded the Councilor the call.

Of the evening came late at Caspar Quandt room and begged him with
uplifted hands, him but not to enter the house, he would indeed do
everything you ask of him, "only not a police lieutenant, everything,
just not, "he said.

The teacher reassured him by force and said it
could temporarily be no question of Police lieutenant had just scare
him do. "No," said Caspar, "even the officiant Maier has spoken today
on the court like this. "

"Well, Hauser, now you behave like a little
boy but, yet they are finally a grown man, "Quandt said reproachfully. We may here
note the fact that the level surfaces which are above the seashores are divisible into two
main groups--those which have been recently lifted above the sea level, composed of materials
laid down in the shallows next the shore, and which have not yet shared in mountain-building
disturbances, and those which have been slightly tilted in the manner before indicated in the
case of the plains which border the Rocky Mountains on the east. The great southern plain of
eastern and southern United States, extending from near New York to Mexico, is a good specimen
of the level lands common on all the continents which have recently emerged from the sea. The
table-lands on either side of the Mississippi Valley, sloping from the Alleghanies and the
Cordilleras, represent the more ancient type of plain which has already shared in the elevation
which mountain-building brings about. In rarer cases plains of small area are formed where
mountains formerly existed by the complete moving down of the original ridges.

There is a common opinion that the continents are liable in the course of the geologic ages
to very great changes of position; that what is now sea may give place to new great lands,
and that those already existing may utterly disappear. This opinion was indeed generally held
by geologists not more than thirty years ago. Further study of the problem has shown us that
while parts of each continent may at any time be depressed beneath the sea, the whole of its
surface rarely if ever goes below the water level. Thus, in the case of North America, we can
readily note very great changes in its form since the land began to rise above the water. But
always, from that ancient day to our own, some portion of the area has been above the level
of the sea, thus providing an ark of refuge for the land life when it was disturbed by inundations.
The strongest evidence in favour of the opinion that the existing continents have endured for
many million years is found in the fact that each of the great lands preserves many distinct
groups of animals and plants which have descended from ancient forms dwelling upon the same
territory. If at any time the relatively small continent of Australia had gone beneath the
sea, all of the curious pouched animals akin to the opossum and kangaroo which abound in that
country--creatures belonging in the ancient life of the world--would have been overwhelmed.

We have already noted the fact that the uplifting of mountains and of the table-lands about
them, which appears to have been the basis of continental growth, has been due to strains in
the rocks sufficiently strong to disturb the beds. At each stage of the mountain-building movement
these compressive strains have had to contend with the very great weight of the rocks which
they had to move. These lands are not to be regarded as firm set or rigid arches, but as highly
elastic structures, the shapes of which may be determined by any actions which put on or take
off burden. We see a proof of this fact from numerous observations which geologists are now
engaged in making. Thus during the last ice epoch, when almost all the northern part of this
continent, as well as the northern part of Europe, was covered by an ice sheet several thousand
feet thick, the lands sank down under their load, and to an extent roughly proportional to
the depth of the icy covering. While the northern regions were thus tilted down by the weight
which was upon them, the southern section of this land, the region about the Gulf of Mexico,
was elevated much above its present level; it seems likely, indeed, that the peninsula of Florida
rose to the height of several hundred feet above its present shore line. After the ice passed
away the movements were reversed, the northern region rising and the southern sinking down.
These movements are attested by the position of the old shore lines formed during the later
stages of the Glacial epoch. Thus around Lake Ontario, as well as the other Great Lakes, the
beaches which mark the higher positions of those inland seas during the closing stages of the
ice time, and which, of course, were when formed horizontal, now rise to the northward at the
rate of from two to five feet for each mile of distance. Recent studies by Mr. G.K. Gilbert
show that this movement is still in progress.

Other evidence going to show the extent to which the movements of the earth's crust are affected
by the weight of materials are found in the fact that wherever along the shores thick deposits
of sediments are accumulated the tendency of the region where they lie is gradually to sink
downward, so that strata having an aggregate thickness of ten thousand feet or more may be
accumulated in a sea which was always shallow. The ocean floor, in general, is the part of
the earth's surface where strata are constantly being laid down. In the great reservoir of
the waters the débris washed from the land, the dust from volcanoes, and that from the stellar
spaces, along with the vast accumulation of organic remains, almost everywhere lead to the
steadfast accumulation of sedimentary deposits. On the other hand, the realms of the surface
above the ocean level are constantly being worn away by the action of the rivers and glaciers,
of the waves which beat against the shores, and of the winds which blow over desert regions.
The result is that the lands are wearing down at the geologically rapid average rate of somewhere
about one foot in five thousand years. All this heavy matter goes to the sea bottoms. Probably
to this cause we owe in part the fact that in the wrinklings of the crust due to the contraction
of the interior the lands exhibit a prevailing tendency to uprise, while the ocean floors sink
down. In this way the continents are maintained above the level of the sea despite the powerful
forces which are constantly wearing their substance away, while the seas remain deep, although
they are continually being burdened with imported materials.

It is easy to see that if the sea floors tend to sink downward, while the continental lands
uprise, the movements which take place may be compared with those which occur in a lever about
a fulcrum point. In this case the sea end of the bar is descending and the land end ascending.
Now, it is evident that the fulcrum point may fall to the seaward or to the landward of the
shore; only by chance and here and there would it lie exactly at the coast line. By reference
to the diagram (Fig. 8), it will be seen that, while the point of rotation is just at the shore,
a considerable movement may take place without altering the position of the coast line. Where
the point of no movement is inland of the coast, the sea will gain on the continent; where,
however, the point is to seaward, beneath the water, the land will gain on the ocean. In this
way we can, in part at least, account for the endless changes in the attitude of the land along
the coastal belt without having to suppose that the continents cease to rise or the sea floors
to sink downward. It is evident that the bar or section of the rocks from the interior of the
land to the bottoms of the seas is not rigid; it is also probable that the matter in the depths
of the earth, which moves with the motions of this bar, would change the position of the fulcrum
point from time to time. Thus it may well come about that our coast lines are swaying up and
down in ceaseless variation.

In very recent geological times, probably since the beginning of the last Glacial period, the
region about the Dismal Swamp in Virginia has swayed up and down through four alternating movements
to the extent of from fifty to one hundred feet. The coast of New Jersey is now sinking at
the rate of about two feet in a hundred years. The coast of New England, though recently elevated
to the extent of a hundred feet or more, at a yet later time sank down, so that at some score
of points between New York and Eastport, Me., we find the remains of forests with the roots
of their trees still standing below high-tide mark in positions where the trees could not have
grown. Along all the marine coasts of the world which have been carefully studied from this
point of view there are similar evidences of slight or great modern changes in the level of
the lands. At some points, particularly on the coast of Alaska and along the coast of Peru,
these uplifts of the land have amounted to a thousand feet or more. In the peninsular district
of Scandinavia the swayings, sometimes up and sometimes down, which are now going on have considerably
changed the position of the shore lines since the beginning of the historical period.

There are other causes which serve to modify the shapes and sizes of the continents which may
best be considered in the sequel; for the present we may pass from this subject with the statement
that our great lands are relatively permanent features; their forms change from age to age,
but they have remained for millions of years habitable to the hosts of animals and plants which
have adapted their life to the conditions which these fields afford them.

                              CHAPTER V.

                            THE ATMOSPHERE.

The firm-set portion of the earth, composed of materials which became solid when the heat so
far disappeared from the sphere that rocky matter could pass from its previous fluid condition
to the solid or frozen state, is wrapped about by two great envelopes, the atmosphere and the
waters. Of these we shall first consider the lighter and more universal air; in taking account
of its peculiarities we shall have to make some mention of the water with which it is greatly
involved; afterward we shall consider the structure and functions of that fluid.

Atmospheric envelopes appear to be common features about the celestial spheres. In the sun
there is, as we have noted, a very deep envelope of this sort which is in part composed of
the elements which form our own air; but, owing to the high temperature of the sphere, these
are commingled with many substances which in our earth--at least in its outer parts--have entered
in the solid state. Some of the planets, so far as we can discern their conditions, seem also
to have gaseous wraps; this is certainly the case with the planet Mars, and even the little
we know of the other like spheres justifies the supposition that Jupiter and Saturn, at least,
have a like constitution. We may regard an atmosphere, in a word, as representing a normal
and long-continued state in the development of the heavenly orbs. In only one of these considerable
bodies of the solar system, the moon, do we find tolerably clear evidence that there is no
atmosphere.

The atmosphere of the earth is composed mainly of very volatile elements, known as nitrogen
and argon. This is commingled with oxygen, also a volatile element. Into this mass a number
of other substances enter in varying but always relatively very small proportions. Of these
the most considerable are watery vapour and carbon dioxide; the former of these rarely amounts
to one per cent of the weight of the air, considering the atmosphere as a whole, and the latter
is never more than a small fraction of one per cent in amount. As a whole, the air envelope
of the earth should be regarded as a mass of nitrogen and argon, which only rarely, under the
influence of conditions which exist in the soil, enters into combinations with other elements
by which it assumes a solid form. The oxygen, though a permanent element in the atmosphere,
tends constantly to enter into combinations which fix it temporarily or permanently in the
earth, in which it forms, indeed, in its combined state about one half the weight of all the
mineral substances we know. The carbon dioxide, or carbonic-acid gas, as it is commonly termed,
is a most important substance, as it affords plants all that part of their bodies which disappear
on burning. It is constantly returned to the atmosphere by the decay of organic matter, as
well as by volcanic action.

In addition to the above-noted materials composing the air, all of which are imperatively necessary
to the wonderful work accomplished by that envelope, we find a host of other substances which
are accidentally, variably, and always in small quantities contained in this realm. Thus near
the seashores, and indeed for a considerable distance into the continent, we find the air contains
a certain amount of salt so finely divided that it floats in the atmosphere. So, too, we find
the air, even on the mountain tops amid eternal snows, charged with small particles of dust,
which, though not evident to the unassisted eye, become at once visible when we permit a slender
ray of light to enter a dark chamber.

It is commonly asserted that the atmosphere does not effectively extend above the height of
forty-five miles; we know that it is densest on the surface of the earth, the most so in those
depressions which lie below the level of the sea. This is proved to us by the weight which
the air imposes upon the mercury at the open end of a barometric tube. If we could deepen these
cavities to the extent of a thousand miles, the pressure would become so great that if the
pit were kept free from the heat of the earth the gaseous materials would become liquefied.
Upward from the earth's surface at the sea level the atoms and molecules of the air become
farther apart until, at the height of somewhere between forty and fifty miles, the quantity
of them contained in the ether is so small that we can trace little effect from them on the
rays of light which at lower levels are somewhat bent by their action. At yet higher levels,
however, meteors appear to inflame by friction against the particles of air, and even at the
height of eighty miles very faint clouds have at times been discerned, which are possibly composed
of volcanic dust floating in the very rarefied medium, such as must exist at this great elevation.

The air not only exists in the region where we distinctly recognise it; it also occupies the
waters and the under earth. In the waters it occurs as a mechanical mixture which is brought
about as the rain forms and falls in the air, as the streams flow to the sea, and as the waves
roll over the deep and beat against the shores. In the realm of the waters, as well as on the
land, the air is necessary for the maintenance of all animal forms; but for its presence such
life would vanish from the earth.

Owing to certain peculiarities in its constitution, the atmosphere of our earth, and that doubtless
of myriad other spheres, serves as a medium of communication between different regions. It
is, as we know, in ceaseless motion at rates which may vary from the speed in the greatest
tempests, which may move at the rate of somewhere a hundred and fifty miles an hour, to the
very slow movements which occur in caverns, where the transfer is sometimes effected at an
almost microscopic rate in the space of a day. The motion of the atmosphere is brought about
by the action of heat here and there, and in a trifling way, by the heat from the interior
of the earth escaping through hot springs or volcanoes, but almost altogether by the heat of
the sun. If we can imagine the earth cut off from the solar radiation, the air would cease
to move. We often note how the variable winds fall away in the nighttime. Those who in seeking
for the North Pole have spent winters in the long-continued dark of that region have noted
that the winds almost cease to blow, the air being disturbed only when a storm originated in
the sunlit realm forced its way into the circumpolar darkness.

The sun's heat does not directly disturb the atmosphere; if we could take the solid sphere
of the world away, leaving the air, the rays would go straight through, and there would be
no winds produced. This is due to the fact that the air permits the direct rays of heat, such
as come from the sun, to pass through it with very slight resistance. In an aërial globe such
as we have imagined, the rays impinging upon its surface would be slightly thrown out of their
path as they are in passing through a lens, but they would journey on in space without in any
considerable measure warming the mass. Coming, however, upon the solid earth, the heat rays
warm the materials on which they are arrested, bringing them to a higher temperature than the
air. Then these heated materials radiate the energy into the air; it happens, however, that
this radiant heat can not journey back into space as easily as it came in; therefore the particles
of air next the surface acquire a relatively high temperature. Thus a thermometer next the
ground may rise to over a hundred degrees Fahrenheit, while at the same time the fleecy clouds
which we may observe floating at the height of five or six miles above the surface are composed
of frozen water.

The effect of the heated air which acquires its temperature by radiation from the earth's surface
is to produce the winds. This it brings about in a very simple manner, though the details of
the process have a certain complication. The best illustration of the mode in which the winds
are produced is obtained by watching what takes place about an ordinary fire at the bottom
of a chimney. As soon as the fire is lit, we observe that the air about it, so far as it is
heated, tends upward, drawing the smoke with it. If the air in the chimney be cold, it may
not draw well at first; but in a few minutes the draught is established, or, in other words,
the heated lower air breaks its way up the shaft, gradually pushing the cooler matter out at
the top. In still air we may observe the column from the flue extending about the chimney-top,
sometimes to the height of a hundred feet or more before it is broken to pieces. It is well
here to note the fact that the energy of the draught in a chimney is, with a given heat of
fire and amount of air which is permitted to enter the shaft, directly proportionate to the
height; thus in very tall flues, between two and three hundred feet high, which are sometimes
constructed, the uprush is at the speed of a gale.

Whenever the air next the surface is so far heated that it may overcome the inertia of the
cooler air above, it forces its way up through it in the general manner indicated in the chimney
flue. When such a place of uprush is established, the hot air next the surface flows in all
directions toward the shaft, joining the expedition to the heights of the atmosphere. Owing
to the conditions of the earth's surface, which we shall now proceed to trace, these ascents
of heated air belong in two distinct classes--those which move upward through more or less
cylindrical chimneys in the atmosphere, shafts which are impermanent, which vary in diameter
from a few feet to fifty or perhaps a hundred miles, and which move over the surface of the
earth; and another which consists of a broad, beltlike shaft in the equatorial regions, which
in a way girdles the earth, remains in about the same place, continually endures, and has a
width of hundreds of miles. Of these two classes of uprushes we shall first consider the greatest,
which occurs in the central portions of the tropical realm.

Under the equator, owing to the fact that the sun for a considerable belt of land and sea maintains
the earth at a high temperature, there is a general updraught which began many million years
ago, probably before the origin of life, in the age when our atmosphere assumed its present
conditions. Into this region the cooler air from the north and south necessarily flows, in
part pressed in by the weight of the cold air which overlies it, but aided in its motion by
the fact that the particles which ascend leave place for others to occupy. Over the surfaces
of the land within the tropical region this draught toward what we may term the equatorial
chimney is perturbed by the irregularities of the surface and many local accidents. But on
the sea, where the conditions are uniform, the air moving toward the point of ascent is marked
in the trade winds, which blow with a steadfast sweep down toward the equator. Many slight
actions, such as the movement of the hot and cold currents of the sea, the local air movements
from the lands or from detached islands, somewhat perturb the trade winds, but they remain
among the most permanent features in this changeable world. It is doubtful if anything on this
sphere except the atoms and molecules of matter have varied as little as the trade winds in
the centre of the wide ocean. So steadfast and uniform are they that it is said that the helm
and sails of a ship may be set near the west coast of South America and be left unchanged for
a voyage which will carry the navigator in their belt across the width of the Pacific.

Rising up from the earth in the tropical belt, the air attains the height of several thousand
feet; it then begins to curve off toward the north and south, and at the height of somewhere
about three to five miles above the surface is again moving horizontally toward either pole;
attaining a distance on that journey, it gradually settles down to the surface of the earth,
and ceases to move toward higher latitudes. If the earth did not revolve upon its axis the
course of these winds along the surface toward the equator, and in the upper air back toward
the poles, would be made in what we may call a square manner--that is, the particles of air
would move toward the point where they begin to rise upward in due north and south lines, according
as they came from the southern or northern hemisphere, and the upper currents or counter trades
would retrace their paths also parallel with the meridians or longitude lines. But because
the earth revolves from west to east, the course of the trade winds is oblique to the equator,
those in the northern hemisphere blowing from northeast to southwest, those in the southern
from southeast to northwest. The way in which the motion of the earth affects the direction
of these currents is not difficult to understand. It is as follows:

Let us conceive a particle of air situated immediately over the earth's polar axis. Such an
atom would by the rotation of the sphere accomplish no motion except, indeed, that it might
turn round on its own centre. It would acquire no velocity whatever by virtue of the earth's
movement. Then let us imagine the particle moving toward the equator with the speed of an ordinary
wind. At every step of its journey toward lower latitudes it would come into regions having
a greater movement than those which it had just left. Owing to its inertia, it would thus tend
continually to lag behind the particles of matter about it. It would thus fall off to the westward,
and, in place of moving due south, would in the northern hemisphere drift to the southwest,
and in the southern hemisphere toward the northwest. A good illustration of this action may
be obtained from an ordinary turn-table such as is used about railway stations to reverse the
position of a locomotive. If the observer will stand in the centre of such a table while it
is being turned round he will perceive that his body is not swayed to the right or left. If
he will then try to walk toward the periphery of the rotating disk, he will readily note that
it is very difficult, if not impossible, to walk along the radius of the circle; he naturally
falls behind in the movement, so that his path is a curved line exactly such as is followed
by the winds which move toward the equator in the trades. If now he rests a moment on the periphery
of the table, so that his body acquires the velocity of the disk at that point, and then endeavours
to walk toward the centre, he will find that again he can not go directly; his path deviates
in the opposite direction--in other words, the body continually going to a place having a less
rate of movement by virtue of the rotation of the earth, on account of its momentum is ever
moving faster than the surface over which it passes. This experiment can readily be tried on
any small rotating disk, such as a potter's wheel, or by rolling a marble or a shot from the
centre to the circumference and from the circumference to the centre. A little reflection will
show the inquirer how these illustrations clearly account for the oblique though opposite sets
of the trade winds in the upper and lower parts of the air.

The dominating effect of the tropical heat in controlling the movements of the air currents
extends, on the ocean surface, in general about as far north and south as the parallels of
forty degrees, considerably exceeding the limits of the tropics, those lines where the sun,
because of the inclination of the earth's axis, at some time of the year comes just overhead.
Between these belts of trade winds there is a strip or belt under the region where the atmosphere
is rising from the earth, in which the winds are irregular and have little energy. This region
of the "doldrums" or frequent calms is one of much trouble to sailing ships on their voyages
from one hemisphere to another. In passing through it their sails are filled only by the airs
of local storms, or winds which make their way into that part of the sea from the neighbouring
continents. Beyond the trade-wind belt, toward the poles, the movements of the atmosphere are
dependent in part on the counter trades which descend to the surface of the earth in latitudes
higher than that in which the surface or trade winds flow. Thus along our Atlantic coast, and
even in the body of the continent, at times when the air is not controlled by some local storm,
the counter trade blows with considerable regularity.

The effect of the trade and counter-trade movements of the air on the distribution of temperature
over the earth's surface is momentous. In part their influence is due to the direct heat-carrying
power of the atmosphere; in larger measure it is brought about by the movement of the ocean
waters which they induce. Atmospheric air, when deprived of the water which it ordinarily contains,
has very little heat-containing capacity. Practically nearly all the power of conveying heat
which it possesses is due to the vapour of water which it contains. By virtue of this moisture
the winds do a good deal to transfer heat from the tropical or superheated portion of the earth's
surface to the circumpolar or underheated realms. At first, the relatively cool air which journeys
toward the equator along the surface of the sea constantly gains in heat, and in that process
takes up more and more water, for precisely the same reason that causes anything to dry more
rapidly in air which has been warmed next a fire. The result is that before it begins to ascend
in the tropical updraught, being much moisture-laden, the atmosphere stores a good deal of
heat. As it rises, rarefies, and cools, the moisture descends in the torrential rains which
ordinarily fall when the sun is nearly vertical in the tropical belt.

Here comes in a very interesting principle which is of importance in understanding the nature
of great storms, either the continuous storm of the tropics or the local and irregular whirlings
which occur in various parts of the earth. When the moisture-laden air starts on its upward
journey from the earth it has, by virtue of the watery vapour which it contains, a store of
energy which becomes applied to promoting the updraught. As it rises, the moisture in the air
gathers together or condenses, and in so doing parts with the heat which caused it to evaporate
from the ocean surface. For a given weight of water, the amount of heat required to effect
the evaporation is very great; this we may roughly judge by observing what a continuous fire
is required to send a pint of water into the state of steam. This energy, when it is released
by the condensation of water into rain or snow, becomes again heat, and tends somewhat, as
does the fire in the chimney, to accelerate the upward passage of the air. The result is that
the water which ascends in the equatorial updraught becomes what we may term fuel to promote
this important element in the earth's aërial circulation. Trades and counter trades would doubtless
exist but for the efficiency of this updraught, which is caused by the condensation of watery
vapour, but the movement would be much less than it is.

                        WHIRLING STORMS.

In the region near the equator, or near the line of highest temperature, which for various
reasons does not exactly follow the equator, there is, as we have noticed, a somewhat continuous
uprushing current where the air passes upward through an ascending chimney, which in a way
girdles the sea-covered part of the earth. In this region the movements of the air are to a
great extent under the control of the great continuous updraught. As we go to the north and
south we enter realms where the air at the surface of the earth is, by the heat which it acquires
from contact with that surface, more or less impelled upward; but there being no permanent
updraught for its escape, it from time to time breaks through the roof of cold air which overlies
it and makes a temporary channel of passage. Going polarward from the equator, we first encounter
these local and temporary upcastings of the air near the margin of the tropical belt. In these
districts, at least over the warmer seas, during the time of the year when it is midsummer,
and in the regions where the trade winds are not strong enough to sweep the warm and moisture-laden
air down to the equatorial belt, the upward tending strain of the atmosphere next the earth
often becomes so strong that the overlying air is displaced, forming a channel through which
the air swiftly passes. As the moisture condenses in the way before noted, the energy set free
serves to accelerate the updraught, and a hurricane is begun. At first the movement is small
and of no great speed, but as the amount of air tending upward is likely to be great, as is
also the amount of moisture which it contains, the aërial chimney is rapidly enlarged, and
the speed of the rising air increased. The atmosphere next the surface of the sea flows in
toward the channel of escape; its passage is marked by winds which are blowing toward the centre.
On the periphery of the movement the particles move slowly, but as they win their way toward
the centre they travel with accelerating velocity. On the principle which determines the whirling
movement of the water escaping through a hole in the bottom of a basin, the particles of the
air do not move on straight lines toward the centre, but journey in spiral paths, at first
along the surface, and then ascending.

We have noted the fact that in a basin of water the direction of the whirling is what we may
term accidental--that is, dependent on conditions so slight that they elude our observation--but
in hurricanes a certain fact determines in an arbitrary way the direction in which the spin
shall take place. As soon as such a movement of the air attains any considerable diameter,
although in its beginning it may have spun in a direction brought about by local accidents,
it will be affected by the diverse rates of travel, by virtue of the earth's rotation, of the
air on its equatorial and polar sides. On the equatorial side this air is moving more rapidly
than it is on the polar side. By observing the water passing from a basin this principle, with
a few experiments, can be made plain. The result is to cause these great whirlwinds of the
hurricanes of higher latitudes to whirl round from right to left in the northern hemisphere
and in the reverse way in the southern. The general system of the air currents still further
affects these, as other whirling storms, by driving their centres or chimneys over the surface
of the earth. The principle on which this is done may be readily understood by observing how
the air shaft above a chimney, through which we may observe the smoke to rise during a time
of calm, is drawn off to one side by the slight current which exists even when we feel no wind;
it may also be discerned in the little dust whirls which form in the streets on a summer day
when the air is not much disturbed. While they spin they move on in the direction of the air
drift. In this way a hurricane originating in the Gulf of Mexico may gradually journey under
the influence of the counter trades across the Antilles, or over southern Florida, and thence
pursue a devious northerly course, generally near the Atlantic coast and in the path of the
Gulf Stream, until it has travelled a thousand miles or more toward the North Atlantic. The
farther it goes northward the less effectively it is fed with warm and moisture-laden air,
the feebler its movement becomes, until at length it is broken up by the variable winds which
it encounters.

A very interesting and, from the point of view of the navigator, important peculiarity of these
whirls is that at their centre there is a calm, similar in origin and nature to the calm under
the equator between the trade-wind belts. Both these areas are in the field where the air is
ascending, and therefore at the surface of the earth does not affect the sails of ships, though
if men ever come to use flying machines and sail through the tropics at a good height above
the sea it will be sensible enough. The difference between the doldrum of the equator and that
of the hurricane, besides their relative areas, is that one is a belt and the other a disk.
If the seafarer happens to sail on a path which leads him through the hurricane centre, he
will first discern, as from the untroubled air and sea he approaches the periphery of the storm,
the horizon toward the disturbance beset by troubled clouds, all moving in one direction. Entering
beneath this pall, he finds a steadily increasing wind, which in twenty miles of sailing may,
and in a hundred miles surely will, compel him to take in all but his storm sails, and is likely
to bring his ship into grave peril. The most furious winds the mariner knows are those which
he encounters as he approaches the still centre. These trials are made the more appalling by
the fact that in the furious part of the whirl the rain, condensing from the ascending air,
falls in torrents, and the electricity generated in the condensation gives rise to vivid lightning.
If the storm-beset ship can maintain her way, in a score or two of miles of journey toward
the centre, generally very quickly, it passes into the calm disk, where the winds, blowing
upward, cease to be felt. In this area the ship is not out of danger, for the waves, rolling
in from the disturbed areas on either side, make a torment of cross seas, where it is hard
to control the movements of a sailing vessel because the impulse of the winds is lost. Passing
through this disk of calm, the ship re-encounters in reverse order the furious portion of the
whirl, afterward the lessening winds, until it escapes again into the airs which are not involved
in the great torment.

In the old days, before Dove's studies of storms had shown the laws of hurricane movement,
unhappy shipmasters were likely to be caught and retained in hurricanes, and to battle with
them for weeks until their vessels were beaten to pieces. Now the "Sailing Directions," which
are the mariner's guide, enable him, from the direction of the winds and the known laws of
motion of the storm centre, to sail out of the danger, so that in most cases he may escape
calamity. It is otherwise with the people who dwell upon the land over which these atmospheric
convulsions sweep. Fortunately, where these great whirlwinds trespass on the continent, they
quickly die out, because of the relative lack of moisture which serves to stimulate the uprush
which creates them. Thus in their more violent forms hurricanes are only felt near the sea,
and generally on islands and peninsulas. There the hurricane winds, by the swiftness of their
movement, which often attains a speed of a hundred miles or more, apply a great deal of energy
to all obstacles in their path. The pressure thus produced is only less destructive than that
which is brought about by the tornadoes, which are next to be described.

There is another effect from hurricanes which is even more destructive to life than that caused
by the direct action of the wind. In these whirlings great differences in atmospheric pressure
are brought about in contiguous areas of sea. The result is a sudden elevation in the level
of one part of the water. These disturbances, where the shore lands are low and thickly peopled,
as is the case along the western coast of the Bay of Bengal, may produce inundations which
are terribly destructive to life and property. They are known also in southern Florida and
along the islands of the Caribbean, but in that region are not so often damaging to mankind.

Fortunately, hurricanes are limited to a very small part of the tropical district. They occur
only in those regions, on the eastern faces of tropical lands, where the general westerly set
of the winds favours the accumulation of great bodies of very warm, moist air next the surface
of the sea. The western portion of the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean, the Bay of Bengal,
and the southeastern portion of Asia are especially liable to their visitations. They sometimes
develop, though with less fury, in other parts of the tropics. On the western coast of South
America and Africa, where the oceans are visited by the dry land winds, and where the waters
are cooled by currents setting in from high latitudes, they are unknown.

Only less in order of magnitude than the hurricanes are the circular storms known as cyclones.
These occur on the continents, especially where they afford broad plains little interrupted
by mountain ranges. They are particularly well exhibited in that part of North America north
of Mexico and south of Hudson Bay. Like the hurricanes, they appear to be due to the inrush
of relatively warm air entering an updraught which had been formed in the overlying, cooler
portions of the atmosphere. They are, however, much less energetic, and often of greater size
than the hurricane whirl. The lack of energy is probably due to the comparative dryness of
the air. The greater width of the ascending column may perhaps be accounted for by the fact
that, originating at a considerable height above the sea, they have a less thickness of air
to break through, and so the upward setting column is readily made broad.

The cyclones of North America appear generally to originate in the region of the Rocky Mountains,
though it is probable that in some instances, perhaps in many, the upward set of the air which
begins the storm originates in the ocean along the Pacific coast. They gather energy as they
descend the great sloping plain leading eastward from the Rocky Mountains to the central portion
of the great continental valley. Thence they move on across the country to the Atlantic coast.
Not infrequently they continue on over the ocean to the European continent. The eastward passage
of the storm centre is due to the prevailing eastward movement of the air in its upper part
throughout that portion of the northern hemisphere. Commonly they incline somewhat to the northward
of east in their journey. In all cases the winds appear to blow spirally into the common storm
centre. There is the same doldrum area or calm field in the centre of the storm that we note
between the trade winds and in the middle of a hurricane disk, though this area is less defined
than in the other instances, and the forward motion of the storm at a considerable speed is
in most cases characteristic of the disturbance. On the front of one of these storms in North
America the winds commonly begin in the northeast, thence they veer by the east to the southwest.
At this stage in the movement the storm centre has passed by, the rainfall commonly ceases,
and cold, dry winds setting to the northwestward set in. This is caused by the fact that the
ascending air, having attained a height above the earth, settles down behind the storm, forming
an anticyclone or mass of dry air, which presses against the retreating side of the great whirlwind.

In front of the storm the warm and generally moist relatively warm air, pressing in toward
the point of uprise and overlaid by the upper cold air, is brought into a condition where it
tends to form small subordinate shafts up through which it whirls on the same principle, but
with far greater intensity than the main ascending column. The reason for the violence of this
movement is that the difference in temperature of the air next the surface and that at the
height of a few thousand feet is great. As might be expected, these local spinnings are most
apt to occur in the season when the air next the earth is relatively warm, and they are aptest
to take place in the half of the advancing front lying between the east and south, for the
reason that there the highest temperatures and the greatest humidity are likely to coexist.
In that part of the field, during the time when the storm is advancing from the Rocky Mountains
to the Atlantic, a dozen or more of these spinning uprushes may be produced, though few of
them are likely to be of large size or of great intensity.

The secondary storms of cyclones, such as are above noted, receive the name of tornadoes. They
are frequent and terrible visitations of the country from northern Texas, Florida, and Alabama
to about the line of the Great Lakes; they are rarely developed in the region west of central
Kansas, and only occasionally do they exhibit much energy in the region east of the plain-lands
of the Ohio Valley. Although known in other lands, they nowhere, so far as our observations
go, exhibit the paroxysmal intensity which they show in the central portion of the North American
continent. There the air which they affect acquires a speed of movement and a fury of action
unknown in any other atmospheric disturbances, even in those of the hurricanes.

The observer who has a chance to note from an advantageous position the development of a tornado
observes that in a tolerably still air, or at least an air unaffected by violent winds--generally
in what is termed a "sultry" state of the atmosphere--the storm clouds in the distance begin
to form a kind of funnel-shaped dependence, which gradually extends until it appears to touch
the earth. As the clouds are low, this downward-growing column probably in no case is observed
for the height of more than three or four thousand feet. As the funnel descends, the clouds
above and about it may be seen to take on a whirling movement around the centre, and under
favourable circumstances an uprush of vapours may be noted in the centre of the swaying shaft.
As the whirl comes nearer, the roar of the disturbance, which at a distance is often compared
to the sound made by a threshing machine or to that of distant musketry, increases in loudness
until it becomes overwhelming. When a storm such as this strikes a building, it is not only
likely to be razed by the force of the wind, but it may be exploded, as by the action of gunpowder
fired within its walls, through the sudden expansion of the air which it contains. In the centre
of the column, although it rarely has a diameter of more than a few hundred feet, the uprush
is so swift that it makes a partial vacuum. The air, striving to get into the space which it
is eager to occupy, is whirling about at such a rate that the centrifugal motion which it thus
acquires restrains its entrance. In this way there may be, as the column rapidly moves by,
a difference of pressure amounting probably to what the mercury of a barometer would indicate
by four or five inches of fall. Unless the structure is small and its walls strong, its roof
and sides are apt to be blown apart by this difference of pressure and the consequent expansion
of the contained air. In some cases where wooden buildings have withstood this curious action
the outer clapboards have been blown off by the expansion of the small amount of air contained
in the interspaces between that covering and the lath and plaster within (see Fig. 9).

The blow of the air due to its rotative whirling has in several cases proved sufficient to
throw a heavy locomotive from the track of a well-constructed railway. In all cases where it
is intense it will overturn the strongest trees. The ascending wind in the centre of the column
may sometimes lift the bodies of men and of animals, as well as the branches and trunks of
trees and the timber of houses, to the height of hundreds of feet above the surface. One of
the most striking exhibitions of the upsucking action in a tornado is afforded by the effect
which it produces when it crosses a small sheet of water. In certain cases where, in the Northwestern
States of this country, the path of the storm lay over the pool, the whole of the water from
a basin acres in extent has been entirely carried away, leaving the surface, as described by
an observer, apparently dry enough to plough.

Fortunately for the interests of man, as well as those of the lower organic life, the paths
of these storms, or at least the portion of their track where the violence of the air movement
makes them very destructive, often does not exceed five hundred feet in width, and is rarely
as great as half a mile in diameter. In most cases the length of the journey of an individual
tornado does not exceed thirty miles. It rarely if ever amounts to twice that distance.

In every regard except their small size and their violence these tornadoes closely resemble
hurricanes. There is the same broad disk of air next the surface spirally revolving toward
the ascending centre, where its motion is rapidly changed from a horizontal to a vertical direction.
The energy of the uprush in both cases is increased by the energy set free through the condensation
of the water, which tends further to heat and thus to expand the air. The smaller size of the
tornado may be accounted for by the fact that we have in their originating conditions a relatively
thin layer of warm, moist air next the earth and a relatively very cold layer immediately overlying
it. Thus the tension which serves to start the movement is intense, though the masses involved
are not very great. The short life of a tornado may be explained by the fact that, though it
apparently tends to grow in width and energy, the central spout is small, and is apt to be
broken by the movements of the atmosphere, which in the front of a cyclone are in all cases
irregular.

On the warmer seas, but often beyond the limits of the tropics, another class of spinning storms,
known as waterspouts, may often be observed. In general appearance these air whirls resemble
tornadoes, except that they are in all cases smaller than that group of whirlings. As in the
tornadoes, the waterspout begins with a funnel, which descends from the sky to the surface
of the sea. Up the tube vapours may be seen ascending at great speed, the whole appearing like
a gigantic pillar of swiftly revolving smoke. When the whirl reaches the water, it is said
that the fluid leaps up into the tube in the form of dense spray, an assertion which, in view
of the fact of the action of a tornado on a lake as before described, may well be believed.
Like the tornadoes and dust whirls, the life of a waterspout appears to be brief. They rarely
endure for more than a few minutes, or journey over the sea for more than two or three miles
before the column appears to be broken by some swaying of the atmosphere. As these peculiar
storms are likely to damage ships, the old-fashioned sailors were accustomed to fire at them
with cannon. It has been claimed that a shot would break the tube and end the little convulsion.
This, in view of the fact that they appear to be easily broken up by relatively trifling air
currents, may readily be believed. The danger which these disturbances bring to ships is probably
not very serious.

The special atmospheric conditions which bring about the formation of waterspouts are not well
known; they doubtless include, however, warm, moist air next the surface of the sea and cold
air above. Just why these storms never attain greater size or endurance is not yet known. These
disturbances have been seen for centuries, but as yet they have not been, in the scientific
sense, observed. Their picturesqueness attracts all beholders; it is interesting to note the
fact that perhaps the earliest description of their phenomena--one which takes account in the
scientific spirit of all the features which they present--was written by the poet Camoëns in
the Lusiad, in which he strangely mingles fancy and observation in his account of the great
voyage of Vasco da Gama. The poet even notes that the water which falls when the spout is broken
is not salt, but fresh--a point which clearly proves that not much of the water which the tube
contains is derived from the sea. It is, in fact, watery vapour drawn from the air next the
surface of the ocean, and condensed in its ascent through the tube. In this and other descriptions
of Nature Camoëns shows more of the scientific spirit than any other poet of his time. He was
in this regard the first of modern writers to combine a spiritual admiration for Nature with
some sense of its scientific meaning.

In treating of the atmosphere, meteorologists base their studies largely on changes in the
weight of that medium, which they determine by barometric observations. In fact, the science
of the air had its beginning in Pascal's admirable observation on the changes in the height
of a column of mercury contained in a bent tube as he ascended the volcanic peak known as Puy
de Dome, in central France. As before noted, it is to the disturbances in the weight of the
air, brought about mainly by variations in temperature, that we owe all its currents, and it
is upon these winds that the features we term climate in largest measure depend. Every movement
of the winds is not only brought about by changes in the relative weight of the air at certain
points, but the winds themselves, owing to the momentum which the air attains by them, serve
to bring about alterations in the quantity of air over different parts of the earth, which
are marked most distinctly by barometric variations. These changes are exceedingly complicated;
a full account of them would demand the space of this volume. A few of the facts, however,
should be presented here. In the first place, we note that each day there is normally a range
in the pressure which causes the barometer to be at the lowest at about four o'clock in the
morning and four o'clock in the afternoon, and highest at about ten o'clock in those divisions
of the day. This change is supposed to be due to the fact that the motes of dust in the atmosphere
in the night, becoming cooled, condense the water vapour upon their surfaces, thus diminishing
the volume of the air. When the sun rises the water evaporated by the heat returns from these
little storehouses into the body of the atmosphere. Again in the evening the condensation sets
in; at the same time the air tends to drift in from the region to the westward, where the sun
is still high, toward the field where the barometer has been thus lowered; the current gradually
attains a certain volume, and so brings about the rise of the barometer about ten o'clock at night.

In the winter time, particularly on the well-detached continent of North America, we find a
prevailing high barometer in the interior of the country and a corresponding low state of pressure
on the Atlantic Ocean. In the summer season these conditions are on the whole reversed.

Under the tropics, in the doldrum belt, there is a zone of low barometer connected to the ascending
currents which take place along that line. This is a continuous manifestation of the same action
which gives a large area of a disklike form in the centre or eye of the hurricane and in the
middle portion of the tornado's whirl. In general, it may be said that the weight of the air
is greatest in the regions from which it is blowing toward the points of upward escape, and
least in and about those places where the superincumbent air is rising through a temporary
or permanent line of escape. In other words, ascending air means generally a relatively low
barometer, while descending air is accompanied by greater pressure in the field upon which
it falls.

In almost every part of the earth which is affected by a particular physiography we find that
the movements of the atmosphere next the surface are qualified by the condition which it encounters.
In fact, if a person were possessed of all the knowledge which could be obtained concerning
winds, he could probably determine as by a map the place where he might chance to find himself,
provided he could extend his observations over a term of years. In other words, the regimen
of the winds--at least those of a superficial nature--is almost as characteristic of the field
over which they go as is a map of the country. Of these special winds a number of the more
important have been noted, only a few of which we can advert to. First among these may well
come the land and sea breezes which are remarked about all islands which are not continuously
swept by permanent winds. One of the most characteristic instances of these alternate winds
is perhaps that afforded on the island of Jamaica.

The island of Jamaica is so situated within the basin of the Caribbean that it does not feel
the full influence of the trades. It has a range of high mountains through its middle part.
In the daytime the surface of the land, which has the sun overhead twice each year, and is
always exposed to nearly vertical radiation, becomes intensely hot, so that an upcurrent is
formed. The formation of this current is favoured by the mountains, which apply a part of the
heat at the height of about a mile above the surface of the sea. This action is parallel to
that we notice when, in order to create a draught in the air of a chimney, we put a torch some
distance up above the fireplace, thus diminishing the height of the column of air which has
to be set in motion. It is further shown by the fact that when miners sought to make an upcurrent
in a shaft, in order to lead pure air into the workings through other openings, they found
after much experience that it was better to have the fire near the top of the shaft rather
than at the bottom.

The ascending current being induced up the mountain sides of Jamaica, the air is forced in
from the sea to the relatively free space. Before noon the current, aided in its speed by a
certain amount of the condensation of the watery vapour before described, attains the proportions
of a strong wind. As the sun begins to sink, the earth's surface pours forth its heat; the
radiation being assisted by the extended surfaces of the plants, cooling rapidly takes place.
Meanwhile the sea, because of the great heat-storing power of water, is very little cooled,
the ascent of the air ceases, the temporary chimney with its updraught is replaced by a downward
current, and the winds blow from the land until the sun comes again to reverse the current.
In many cases these movements of the daily winds flowing into and from islands induce a certain
precipitation of moisture in the form of rain. Generally, however, their effect is merely to
ameliorate the heat by bringing alternately currents from the relatively cool sea and from
the upper atmosphere to lessen the otherwise excessive temperature of the fields which they
traverse.

Although characteristic sea and land winds are limited to regions where the sun's heat is great,
they are traceable even in high latitudes during the periods of long-continued calm attended
with clear skies. Thus on the island of Martha's Vineyard, in Massachusetts, the writer has
noted, when the atmosphere was in such a state, distinct night and day, or sea and land, breezes
coming in their regular alternation. During the night when these alternate winds prevail the
central portion of the island, at the distance of three miles from the sea, is remarkably cold,
the low temperature being due to the descending air current. To the same physical cause may
be attributed the frequent insets of the sea winds toward midday along the continental shores
of various countries. Thus along the coast of New England in the summer season a clear, still,
hot day is certain to lead to the creation of an ingoing tide of air, which reaches some miles
into the interior. This stream from the sea enters as a thin wedge, it often being possible
to note next the shore when the movement begins a difference of ten degrees of temperature
between the surface of the ground to which the point of the wedge has attained, and a position
twenty feet higher in the air. This is a beautiful example to show at once how the relative
weight of the atmosphere, even when the differences are slight, may bring about motion, and
also how masses of the atmosphere may move by or through the rest of the medium in a way which
we do not readily conceive from our observations on the transparent mass. Very few people have
any idea how general is the truth that the air, even in continuous winds, tends to move in
more or less individualized masses. This, however, is made very evident by watching the gusts
of a storm or the wandering patches of wind which disturb the surface of an otherwise smooth sea.

Among the notable local winds are those which from their likeness to the Föhn of the Swiss
valleys receive that name. Föhns are produced where a body of air blowing against the slope
of a continuous mountain range is lifted to a considerable height, and, on passing over the
crest, falls again to a low position. In its ascent the air is cooled, rarefied, and to a great
extent deprived of its moisture. In descending it is recondensed, and by the process by which
its atoms are brought together its latent heat is made sensible. Arriving at my room, I was out me. Destitute of
money, expecting the appearance of a rich man's a capable mine, uncertain whether and when my fair
would show, once again, I was in the greatest embarrassment. Twice I longed for her, and thought no more
now without them and without their money to be able to live.

After dinner, I had not even tasted it because I enjoy this time alone been compelled, I was alive
in the room and down, talking to myself, cursing I threw myself on the floor, I tore her hair and
bestowed upon me quite unruly. Suddenly I hear in the sealed room right next to a quiet movement,
and shortly afterwards knock at the Preserved door. I bundle up, grab the Hauptschluessel, But
the move to self-hinged doors, and in the glow of that burning candles I will accept my Schoene.
I throw myself at her feet, kiss her dress, her hands, they lift me up, I dare not embrace
them, hardly looking at them, but I admit it sincere and remorseful my mistake. "He is to forgive,"
she said, "only your Delayed Unfortunately, your happiness and mine. You must now again a line
drive into the world, before we meet again. Here is some more gold, "she said," and sufficient,
if your want households to some extent. Did you this time but wine and match set at a loss Therefore
take heed now before wine and women, and let me hope for a happy reunion. "

She stepped over the threshold back, the wings beat up, I knocked,
I asked, but nothing further was heard.

When I asked the next morning the bill, smiled the waiter and said: "As we know, why do your
doors to so artificial and closes incomprehensible way that no Hauptschluessel oeffnen she
can. We suspected with you a lot of money and valuables, but now we have to go down the stairs
to the treasure to see, and he seemed in every way worthy to be well guarded. "

I said nothing against it, paid my bill and got my box in the car.

I then drove back into the world with the strongest intention to the warning of my mysterious Girlfriend
to respect future. But I had hardly arrived again in a big city, I soon became acquainted with gracious
ladies, of which I am not at all could break loose. They seemed to do her favors expensive
credit, for by me always kept at a distance, it brings me to one issue after another, and as I
was only looking to promote your pleasure, I'm once again not my bag, but always paid and donated
gone, just as it occurred. How great was my amazement and my pleasure when I noticed a few
weeks ago that the fullness of the bag yet had not decreased, but that he was so round and distended
as in the beginning. I wanted to assure me this beautiful property was closer, count me out too, I noticed
the exact sum and now began to live fun with my company as before. Was missing it is not on
land - Amusement and water rides, in dance, song and another. Now needed But no great attention
to become aware, that the bag really took off, just as if I cursed him by my count the virtue
of being uncountable, stolen would have. However, was the joy of life once under way, I could not
back, yet I was at my ready money soon end. I cursed my situation, switching to my friend, that
had me so tempted, it took her to evil, that they are not again can see me and said in anger
of all obligations go against them and made up my mind, the to opening boxes, whether the same is
to be found perhaps in some help. For it was the same is not heavy enough to contain money,
but could be jewels in it, and also this would be very welcome was. I was about to execute the intent,
but I moved him on the night to make the operation very quietly, and hurried to a Banquet,
which was just announced. So she went back for her high, and we were through wine and trumpet
sound upset powerful to strike the unpleasant happened to me that when Desserts, an old friend
of my favorite beauty, coming from travel unexpectedly walked in, sat down beside her and to
assert, without further ado its ancient rights was looking for. It was now soon indignation,
strife and dispute, we moved from the leather, and I was with several Wounds carried home half
dead.

The surgeon had joined me and leave, it was already late at night, my keeper asleep, the door side of
the room opened, my mysterious friend walked in and sat down with me to the bed. She asked
about my health, I did not answer, because I was weary and peevish. She continued to speak with much
content, rubbed my Temples with some balm, so I felt strengthened
quickly and decisively, must be strengthened, that I was angry and
she scolded me. threw in a violent speech I blame all of my misfortune
to them, the passion that infused me on their appearance, their disappearance,
the boredom, the longing that I feel had.

I became more violent and more violent than when I incurred a fever, and I swore her last, that
if they are not mine, I do not hear in this time and with would join me, I do not desire to live
longer, which I determined response demanded. When they falter and held back with a statement,
I got all mine off, crack the double and triple association of the wounds with the decided
intention to me to bleed to death. But I was surprised when I all my wounds healed, my body jewelry
and shiny and found her in my arms.

Now we were the happiest couple in the world. We asked each other mutually pardon and did not
even quite why. She promised now travel further with me, and soon We sat side by side in the car,
the box against us over at the place of the third person. I had the same never mentioned to her,
and now it's never occurred to talk about whether we are equal before the eyes and we stood
by a tacit convention both saw to how it might give such an opportunity, only that I always
in and out the car and lifted me busy as formerly with the closing of the doors.

As long as something in the bag, I had constantly paid; than with
my cash came to an end, I let them know about it .-- "For that is
easily managed Council," she said, pointing mounted on a pair of small
pockets, top on the side of the car, the sooner I probably had noticed,
but not needed.

She reached in and pulled out a few goldstueck, and from some of the other silver coins, and showed
me this the opportunity every effort how we chose to continue. So we traveled from city to
city, from country to country, were among us happy and with others, and I did not think that they
could leave me, less so, as she has now been decided some time full of hope, making our Laughter
and love was only increased. But one morning I found them unfortunately no more, and because
of my stay without peevish she was, I went with my Box back on the track, tried to force the
two bags and found them still successful.

The journey prospered, and when I do not now about my adventure continues might think, because I
have a very natural development of the miraculous events expected, so it presently occurred
something which I in astonishment, in sorrow, was indeed put in fear. Because I need to move from
the spot to travel day and night was used, so it happened that I often went in the dark and in my
car, when the Lights went out randomly, was quite dark. Even with such a dark night I was asleep,
and when I awoke, I saw the glimmer of a light on the ceiling of my car. I watched same, and found
that he broke forth from the box that seemed to have a crack just as it would be bound by the hot,
dry weather that occurred the summer time. My thought of the jewels were busy again, I assumed
that a carbuncle in the box lies, and wished to have certainty about it. I am engaged, as best
I could manage, so I just touched the tear to the eye. But how great was my surprise, when I
was in a well lit by candles, with lots of flavor, so precious furnished
Room looked into it, just as if i had through the opening of a vault
in a royal Hall hinabgesehn.

Although I could see only part of the room, me on the rest Hide left. A fire seemed to burn,
beside which stood a chair. I held his breath at me and continued to watch. Just then came
from the other side of the room a woman with a book in their hands, which I immediately recognized
for my wife, though her picture was drawn together by the very small scale. The Beautiful set
down in the chair to the fireplace to read, the fires laid the cutest pair of tongs deal,
and I could clearly notice that most delightful little creature is also good Hope. Now I found myself
compelled, however, to dislocate my somewhat uncomfortable position, and soon after, when I wanted
to go back and convince me that it is no dream been, the light was gone, and I looked into
the empty darkness.

How surprised, yes I was scared, can see themselves. I made a thousand thoughts about this discovery
and it really could not think. About it, I fell asleep and when I awoke, I thought I had just
dreamed, but I felt from my Schoenen somewhat estranged from the box and as I only wore the
more carefully, I did not know if I made her reappearance in complete or wish Menschengroesse should
fear.

After some time, was really my beauty in the evening come in a white dress, and because it just
dawned in the room, it seemed to me longer than I usually see them used was, and I remembered
having heard that all of the sex of nymphs and gnomes increasing again at nightfall, at length
even noticeable. She flew as usual in my Arms, but I could not quite frohmuetig press it to
my chest oppressed.

"My dear," she said, "I now feel well at your reception, which I unfortunately already know.
You have seen me in the meantime, you are informed of the state in
which I at certain times are, your luck and mine is broken By this
means, yes it is on the point of being completely destroyed.

I must leave you, and do not know if I 'll ever see you again. " Her presence, the grace with
which she spoke, removed immediately almost all memory of that face that I had already been
envisioned only as a dream. I embraced them with brilliance, they convinced of my passion, assured
her my innocence and told her the accidental discovery, enough, I did so much that they itself
seemed calm and tried to calm me down.

"You look closely," she said, "whether the discovery of your love did not hurt that you can forget
that I am located in two figures next to you, whether the reduction my system will not also reduce
your addiction. "

I looked at her, she was more beautiful than ever, and I thought to
myself: "Is it any great misfortune to have a woman who is from time
to time a dwarf, so that they can carry around in the box?

Would not it be much worse if the Giantess and her husband would put it in the box? "My joy was
turned back. I would have they go for anything in the world can not. - "Best heart," I replied,
"let us remain and be, as we have been. Could we find's both beautiful as! Help yourself your
convenience, and I promise you, the box only to take more care. How should the prettiest, I
saw in my life, a bad impression on me ? Make How happy would the fans be if they hold such thumbnails
could! And in the end it was just such a picture, a little sleight of hand. You Check and re teasing
me;. but you shall see how I'll hold me "

"The matter is more serious than you think," said the Beautiful, "however,
I am very well satisfied that you take them lightly, for both of us
can still the gayest episode be.

I will trust you and do what is possible from my side, just promise me commemorate this discovery
as never reproach. This' I add a request quite earnestly: watch out for wine and anger more than
ever in eight. "

I promised what she wanted, I would have to and always promised to, but they turned themselves
the conversation, and everything was in the previous tracks. We did not cause the place of
our Change customer to stay, the city was great, the company often, the season caused many a land
- and a garden party.

In all such pleasures my wife was very much appreciated, even by men and women vividly required.
A good, insinuating manners, combined with a certain authority, made They love everyone and honorable.
Besides, she played the lute and sang beautifully, and all social nights had to be crowned
by her talent.

I will confess that I never had much of the music can do, so they I had rather an unpleasant
effect. My Beautiful, my soon to be noted had, therefore, never came to see me when we were alone,
to communicate in this way, whereas seemed to be in the company to pay compensation where
they habitually because a lot of admirers found.

And now, why should I deny it, our last conversation, despite my best intentions, was not been wealthy,
dismissing the matter entirely with me, but rather had my Way of feeling strangely voted without
me I had been more aware of this. Since going broke one evening in great company of restrained
anger, and I sprang from it the allergroesste disadvantage.

If I remember right now, I loved her after that unfortunate discovery of my beauty much less,
and now I was jealous of them, which did not occur to me before was.

Evening at dinner, where we were sitting diagonally across from each other at some distance,
I found myself very comfortable with my two neighbors, a few ladies to me since Some time had
seemed charming. In jest - and love talking to the wine sector not, however, on the other side a
few music lovers in my wife had taken possession and society songs, each and chormaessigen to cheer
and to lead .

Knew About it, I fell into evil spirits, the two lovers of art seemed intrusive; the song made me
angry, and when they do I coveted a solo verse, I was really upset, emptied the cup and set
it down very roughly.

By the grace of my neighbors I felt at once to soften again, but it
is a bad thing for the worse, once he is on his way.

He cooked away secretly although everything I would have to agree to joy, to give way. On the contrary,
was I only even more treacherous, as they brought a lute and my admiration for her singing
Beautiful all other accompanying. Unfortunately, you are asked a general silence. So I should
also talk no more, and did the sounds hurt me in the teeth. Was it a miracle that finally detonated
the mine a little spark?

Just the singer had a song in the biggest applause ended when, after me, and really quite lovely,
heruebersah. Unfortunately, invaded the looks not with me. She noted I gobbled down a cup
of wine and fills again. With the right index finger beckoned to me sweetly menacing. "Remember
that it is wine!" she said, not sincerely, as I could hear it. -
"Water is for the mermaids!"

I cried .-- "Ladies" she said to my neighbors, "you wreathing the cup with all the grace that
he is not to often empty will ."--" They will not let it master, "whispered to me one Ear .--
"What does a dwarf?" I exclaimed, my violent gesture, which I the cup overturned. "Here is much
of the spilled!" cried the beautiful and did a grip on the strings, as if she wanted to attract the
attention of society from these events to itself. She was really, more so when she got up,
but only as if the match wanted to make more convenient, and preludes to continued.

When I saw the red wine flows over the tablecloth, I came to myself I realized the great mistake
I had committed, and was very contrite inside. For the first time the music spoke to me. The first
verse, which she sang, was a friendly Farewell to the company, as she could feel even more together.
In the following Stanza ran the firm apart as it were, each felt individually, set apart, No
one believed more presently. But what shall I say of the last stanza? It was directed solely
at me, the voice of injured love, arrogance of resentment and Takes leave.

Silently, I led her home and expected me no good. But once we were in our Room arrived, as
she most friendly and gracious, even mischievously and turned made me the happiest of all people.

The
next morning I said very confidently and lovingly, "You have so often, with good company asked to
sing, for example, last night the touching farewell song, sing now for once please me a pretty,
merry welcome in this hour of the morning, so it will become for
us than if we met for the first time.

"

"I can not, my friend," she replied with earnestness. "The song of last night referred to our divorce,
which must now go immediately to himself, for in you I can only say that the insult to promise
and vow for both of us has the worst consequences; You are giving away a big luck, and I must
renounce my dearest wishes. "

So when I then penetrated into them and begged them to explain themselves
better, they said: "I probably can not, because it's done to my liking
to you.

Hear then, I prefer you to the most recent period would have hidden. The form in which you tell
me in the box saw me really is innate and, of course, because I'm from the tribe Eckwald the
king, the mighty princes of the dwarfs, from which the true story
as other reports.

Our nation is still as of old activities or operations and therefore easy to govern. So you need not imagine
that the dwarfs in their work REMAINED. Otherwise were swords that the enemy pursued when she
nachwarf, invisible and mysterious, binding chains, their impenetrable shields, and the like
most famous work.

But now they are mainly concerned with matters of convenience and the plaster and take it
over all other peoples of the earth. Would you amaze, if you were to go through our workshops
and warehouses.


It should be understood that the effects of the attraction which produces tides are much more
extensive than they are seen to be in the movements of the sea. So long as the solar and planetary
spheres remain fluid, the whole of their masses partake of the movement. It is a consequence
of this action, as the computations of Prof. George Darwin has shown, that the moon, once nearer
the earth than it is at present, has by a curious action of the tidal force been pushed away
from the centre of our sphere, or rather the two bodies have repelled each other. An American
student of the problem, Mr. T.J.J. See, has shown that the same action has served to give to
the double stars the exceeding eccentricity of their orbits.

Although these recent studies of tidal action in the celestial sphere are of the utmost importance
to the theory of the universe, for they may lead to changes in the nebular hypotheses, they
are as yet too incomplete and are, moreover, too mathematical to be presented in an elementary
treatise such as this.

                  *       *       *       *       *

We now turn to another class of waves which are of even more importance than those of the tides--to
the undulations which are produced by the action of the wind on the surface of the water. While
the tide waves are limited to the open ocean, and to the seas and bays which afford them free
entrance, wind waves are produced everywhere where water is subjected to the friction of air
which flows over it. While tidal waves come upon the shores but twice each day, the wind waves
of ordinary size which roll in from the ocean deliver their blows at intervals of from three
to ten seconds. Although the tidal waves sometimes, by a packing-up process, attain the height
of fifty feet, their average altitude where they come in contact with the shore probably does
not much exceed four feet; usually they come in gently. It is likely that in a general way
the ocean surges which beat against the coast are of greater altitude.

Wind waves are produced and perform their work in a manner which we shall now describe. When
the air blows over any resisting surface, it tends, in a way which we can hardly afford here
to describe, to produce motions. If the particle is free to move under the impulse which it
communicates, it bears it along; if it is linked together in the manner of large masses, which
the wind can not transport, it tends to set it in motion in an alternating way. The sounds
of our musical instruments which act by wind are due to these alternating vibrations, such
as all air currents tend to produce. An Æolian harp illustrates the action which we are considering.
Moving over matter which has the qualities that we denote by the term fluid, the swayings which
the air produces are of a peculiar sort, though they much resemble those of the fiddle string.
The surface of the liquid rises and falls in what we term waves, the size of which is determined
by the measure of fluidity, and by the energy of the wind. Thus, because fresh water is considerably
lighter than salt, a given wind will produce in a given distance for the run of the waves heavier
surges in a lake than it will in the sea. For this reason the surges in a great storm which
roll on the ocean shore, because of the wide water over which they have gathered their impetus,
are in size very much greater than those of the largest lakes, which do not afford room for
the development of great undulations.

To the eye, a wave in the water appears to indicate that the fluid is borne on before the wind.
Examination, however, shows that the amount of motion in the direction in which the wind is
blowing is very slight. We may say, indeed, that the essential feature of a wave is found in
the transmission of impulse rather than in the movement of the fluid matter. A strip of carpet
when shaken sends through its length undulations which are almost exactly like water waves.
If we imagine ourselves placed in a particle of water, moving in the swayings of a wave in
the open and deep sea, we may conceive ourselves carried around in an ellipse, in each revolution
returning through nearly the same orbit. Now and then, when the particle came to the surface,
it would experience the slight drift which the continual friction of the wind imposes on the
water. If the wave in which the journey was made lay in the trade winds, where the long-continued,
steadfast blowing had set the water in motion to great depths, the orbit traversed would be
moving forward with some rapidity; where also the wind was strong enough to blow the tops of
the waves over, forming white-caps, the advance of the particle very near the surface would
be speedy. Notwithstanding these corrections, waves are to be regarded each as a store of energy,
urging the water to sway much in the manner of a carpet strip, and by the swaying conveying
the energy in the direction of the wave movement.

The rate of movement of wind waves increases with their height. Slight undulations go forward
at the rate of less than half a mile an hour. The greater surges of the deeps when swept by
the strongest winds move with the speed which, though not accurately determined, has been estimated
by the present writer as exceeding forty miles an hour. As these surges often have a length
transverse to the wind of a mile or more, a width of about an eighth of a mile, and a height
of from thirty-five to forty-five feet, the amount of energy which they transmit is very great.
If it could be effectively applied to the shores in the manner in which the energy of exploding
gunpowder is applied by cannon shot, it is doubtful whether the lands could have maintained
their position against the assaults of the sea. But there are reasons stated below why the
ocean waves can use only a very small part of their energy in rending the rocks against which
they strike on the coast line.

In the first place, we should note that wind waves have very little influence on the bottom
of the deep sea. If an observer could stand on the sea floor at the depth of a mile below a
point over which the greatest waves were rolling, he could not with his unaided senses discern
that the water was troubled. He would, indeed, require instruments of some delicacy to find
out that it moved at all. Making the same observations at the depth of a thousand feet, it
is possible that he would note a slight swaying motion in the water, enough sensibly to affect
his body. At five hundred feet in depth the movement would probably be sufficient to disturb
fine mud. At two hundred feet, the rasping of the surge on the bottom would doubtless be sufficient
to push particles of coarse sand to and fro. At one hundred feet in depth, the passage of the
surge would be strong enough to urge considerable pebbles before it. Thence up the slope the
driving action would become more and more intense until we attained the point where the wave
broke. It should furthermore be noted that, while the movement of the water on the floor of
the deep sea as the wave passes overhead would be to and fro, with every advance in the shallowing
and consequent increased friction on the bottom, the forward element in the movement would
rapidly increase. Near the coast line the effect of the waves is continually to shove the detritus
up the slopes of the continental shelf. Here we should note the fact that on this shelf the
waves play a part exactly the opposite of that effected by the tides. The tides, as we have
noted, tend to drag the particles down the slope, while the waves operate to roll them up the
declivity.

As the wave in advancing toward the shore ordinarily comes into continually shallowing water,
the friction on the bottom is ever-increasing, and serves to diminish the energy the surge
contains, and therefore to reduce its proportions. If this action operated alone, the subtraction
which the friction makes would cause the surf waves which roll in over a continental shelf
to be very low, probably in height less than half that which they now attain. In fact, however,
there is an influence at work to increase the height of the waves at the expense of its width.
Noting that the friction rapidly increases with the shallowing, it is easy to see that this
resistance is greatest on the advancing front of the wave, and least on its seaward side. The
result is that the front moves more slowly than the rear, so that the wave is forced to gain
in height; but for the fact that the total friction which the wave encounters takes away most
of its impetus, we might have combers a hundred feet high rolling upon the shelving shores
which almost everywhere face the seas.

As the wave shortens its width and gains in relative height, though not in actual elevation,
another action is introduced which has momentous consequences. The water in the bottom of the
wave is greatly retarded in its ongoing by its friction over the sea floor, while the upper
part of the surge is much less affected in this way. The result is that at a certain point
in the advance, the place of which is determined by the depth, the size, and the speed of the
undulation, the front swiftly steepens until it is vertical, and the top shoots forward to
a point where it is no longer supported by underlying water, when it plunges down in what is
called the surf or breaker. In this part of the wave's work the application of the energy which
it transmits differs strikingly from the work previously done. Before the wave breaks, the
only geological task which it accomplishes is effected by forcing materials up the slope, in
which movement they are slightly ground over each other until they come within the battering
zone of the shore, where they may be further divided by the action of the mill which is there
in operation.

When the wave breaks on the shore it operates in the following manner: First, the overturning
of its crest sends a great mass of water, it may be from the height of ten or more feet, down
upon the shore. Thus falling water has not only the force due to its drop from the summit of
the wave, but it has a share of the impulse due to the velocity with which the surge moved
against the shore. It acts, in a word, like a hammer swung down by a strong arm, where the
blow represents not only the force with which the weight would fall of itself, but the impelling
power of the man's muscles. Any one who will expose his body to this blow of the surf will
recognise how violent it is; he may, if the beach be pebbly, note how it drives the stones
about; fragments the size of a man's head may be hurled by the stroke to the distance of twenty
feet or more; those as large as the fist may be thrown clear beyond the limits of the wave.
So vigorous is this stroke that the sound of it may sometimes be heard ten miles inland from
the coast where it is delivered.

Moving forward up the slope of a gently inclined beach, the fragments of the wave are likely
to be of sufficient volume to permit them to regather into a secondary surge, which, like the
first, though much smaller, again rises into a wall, forming another breaker. Under favourable
conditions as many as four or five of these successive diminishing surf lines may be seen.
The present writer has seen in certain cases as many as a dozen in the great procession, the
lowest and innermost only a few inches high, the outer of all with a height of perhaps twenty feet.

Along with the direct bearing action of the surf goes a to-and-fro movement, due to the rushing
up and down of the water on the beach. This swashing affects not only the broken part of the
waves, but all the water between the outer breaker and the shore. These swayings in the surf
belt often swing the débris on the inner margin over a range of a hundred feet or more, the
movement taking place with great swiftness, affecting the pebbles to the depth of several inches,
and grinding the bits together in a violent way. Listening to the turmoil of a storm, we can
on a pebbly beach distinctly hear the sound of the downward stroke, a crashing tone, and the
roar of the rolling stones.

As waves are among the interesting things in the world, partly on account of their living quality
and partly because of their immediate and often exceeding interest to man, we may here note
one or two peculiar features in their action. In the first place, as the reader who has gained
a sense of the changes in form of action may readily perceive, the beating of waves on the
shore converts the energy which they possess into heat. This probably warms the water during
great storms, so that by the hand we may note the difference in temperature next the coast
line and in the open waters. This relative warmth of the surf water is perhaps a matter of
some importance in limiting the development of ice along the shore line; it may also favour
the protection of the coast life against the severe cold of the winter season.

The waves which successively come against the shore in any given time, particularly if a violent
wind is blowing on to the coast, are usually of about the same size. When, however, in times
of calm an old sea, as it is called, is rolling in, the surges may occasionally undergo very
great variations in magnitude. Not infrequently these occasional waves are great enough to
overwhelm persons who are upon the rocks next the shore. These greater surges are probably
to be accounted for by the fact that in the open sea waves produced by winds blowing in different
directions may run on with their diverse courses and varied intervals until they come near
the shore. Running in together, it very well happens that two of the surges belonging to different
sets may combine their forces, thus doubling the swell. The danger which these conjoined waves
bring is obviously greatest on cliff shores, where, on account of the depth of water, the waves
do not break until they strike the steep.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Having considered in a general way the action of waves as they roll in to the shore, bearing
with them the solar energy which was contributed to them by the winds, we shall now take up
in some detail the work which goes on along the coast line--work which is mainly accomplished
by wave action.

On most coast lines the observer readily notes that the shore is divided into two different
kinds of faces--those where the inner margin of the wave-swept belt comes against rocky steeps,
and those bordered by a strand altogether composed of materials which the surges have thrown
up. These may be termed for convenience cliff shores and wall-beach shores. We shall begin
our inquiry with cliff shores, for in those sections of the coast line the sea is doing its
most characteristic and important work of assaulting the land. If the student has an opportunity
to approach a set of cliffs of hard rock in time of heavy storm, when the waves have somewhere
their maximum height, he should seek some headland which may offer him safe foothold whence
he can behold the movements which are taking place. If he is so fortunate as to have in view,
as well may be the case, cliffs which extend down into deep water, and others which are bordered
by rude and generally steeply sloping beaches covered with large stones, he may perceive that
the waves come in against the cliffs which plunge into deep water without taking on the breaker
form. In this case the undulation strikes but a moderate blow; the wave is not greatly broken.
The part next the rock may shoot up as a thin sheet to a considerable height; it is evident
that while the ongoing wave applies a good deal of pressure to the steep, it does not deliver
its energy in the effective form of a blow as when the wave overturns, or in the consequent
rush of the water up a beach slope. It is easy to perceive that firm-set rock cliffs, with
no beaches at their bases, can almost indefinitely withstand the assaults. On the steep and
stony beach, because of its relatively great declivity, the breaker or surf forms far in, and
even in its first plunge often attains the base of the precipice. The blow of the overfalling
as well as that of the inrush moves about stones of great size; those three feet or more in
diameter are often hurled by the action against the base of the steep, striking blows, the
sharp note of which can often be heard above the general roar which the commotion produces.
The needlelike crags forming isles standing at a distance from the shore, such as are often
found along hard rock coasts, are singularly protected from the action of effective waves.
The surges which strike against them are unarmed with stones, and the water at their bases
is so deep that it does not sway with the motion with sufficient energy to move them on the
bottom. Where a cliff is in this condition, it may endure until an elevation of the coast line
brings its base near the level of the sea, or until the process of decay has detached a sufficient
quantity of stone to form a talus or inclined plane reaching near to the water level.

As before noted, it is the presence of a sloping beach reaching to about the base of the cliff
which makes it possible for the waves to strike at with a hammer instead of with a soft hand.
Battering at the base of the cliff, the surges cut a crease along the strip on which they strike,
which gradually enters so far that the overhanging rock falls of its own weight. The fragments
thus delivered to the sea are in turn broken up and used as battering instruments until they
are worn to pieces. We may note that in a few months of heavy weather the stones of such a
fall have all been reduced to rudely spherical forms. Observations made on the eastern face
of Cape Ann, Mass., where the seas are only moderately heavy, show that the storms of a single
winter reduce the fragments thrown into the sea from the granite quarries to spheroidal shapes,
more than half of their weight commonly being removed in the form of sand and small pebbles
which have been worn from their surfaces.

We can best perceive the effect of battering action which the sea applies to the cliffs by
noting the points where, owing to some chance features in the structure in the rock, it has
proved most effective. Where a joint or a dike, or perhaps a softer layer, if the rocks be
bedded, causes the wear to go on more rapidly, the waves soon excavate a recess in which the
pebbles are retained, except in stormy weather, in an unmoved condition. When the surges are
heavy, these stones are kept in continuous motion, receding as the wave goes back, and rushing
forward with its impulse until they strike against the firm-set rock at the end of the chasm.
In this way they may drive in a cut having the length of a hundred feet or more from the face
of the precipice. In most cases the roofs over these sea caves fall in, so that the structure
is known as a chasm. Occasionally these roofs remain, in which case, for the reason that the
floor of the cutting inclines upward, an opening is made to the surface at their upper end,
forming what is called in New England a "spouting horn"; from the inland end of the tunnel
the spray may be thrown far into the air. As long as the cave is closed at this inner end,
and is not so high but that it may be buried beneath a heavy wave, the inrushing water compresses
the air in the rear parts of the opening. When the wave begins to retreat this air blows out,
sending a gust of spray before it, the action resembling the discharge of a great gun from
the face of a fortification. It often happens that two chasms converging separate a rock from
the cliff. Then a lowering of the coast may bring the mass to the state of a columnar island,
such as abound in the Hebrides and along various other shores.

If a cliff shore retreats rapidly, it may be driven back into the shore, and its face assumes
the curve of a small bay. With every step in this change the bottom is sure to become shallower,
so that the waves lose more and more of their energy in friction over the bottom. Moreover,
in entering a bay the friction which the waves encounter in running along the sides is greater
than that which they meet in coming in upon a headland or a straight shore. The result is,
with the inward retreat of the steep it enters on conditions which diminish the effectiveness
of the wave stroke. The embayment also is apt to hold detritus, and so forms in time a beach
at the foot of the cliff, over which the waves rarely are able to mount with such energy as
will enable them to strike the wall in an effective manner. With this sketch of the conditions
of a cliff shore, we will now consider the fate of the broken-tip rock which the waves have
produced on that section of the coast land.

By observation of sea-beaten cliffs the student readily perceives that a great amount of rocky
matter has been removed from most cliff-faced shores. Not uncommonly it can be shown that such
sea faces have retreated for several miles. The question now arises, What becomes of the matter
which has been broken up by the wave action? In some part the rock, when pulverized by the
pounding to which it is subjected, has dissolved in the water. Probably ninety per cent of
it, however, retains the visible state, and has a fate determined by the size of the fragments
of which it is composed. If these be as fine as mud, so that they may float in the water, they
are readily borne away by the currents which are always created along a storm-swept shore,
particularly by the undertow or bottom outcurrent--the "sea-puss," as it is sometimes called--that
sweeps along the bottom from every shore, against which the waves form a surf. If as coarse
as sand grains, or even very small pebbles, they are likely to be drawn out, rolling over the
bottom to an indefinite distance from the sea margin. The coarser stones, however, either remain
at the foot of the cliff until they are beaten to pieces, or are driven along the shore until
they find some embayment into which they enter. The journey of such fragments may, when the
wind strikes obliquely to the shore, continue for many miles; the waves, running with the wind,
drive the fragments in oscillating journeys up and down the beach, sometimes at the rate of
a mile or more a day. The effect of this action can often be seen where a vessel loaded with
brick or coal is wrecked on the coast. In a month fragments of the materials may be stretched
along for the distance of many miles on either side of the point where the cargo came ashore.
Entering an embayment deep enough to restrain their further journey, the fragments of rock
form a boulder beach, where the bits roll to and fro whenever they are struck by heavy surges.
The greater portion of them remain in this mill until they are ground to the state of sand
and mud. Now and then one of the fragments is tossed up beyond the reach of the waves, and
is contributed to the wall of the beach. In very heavy storms these pebbles which are thrown
inland may amount in weight to many tons for each mile of shore.

The study of a pebbly beach, drawn from crest to the deep water outside, will give an idea
as to the history of its work. On either horn of the crescent by which the pebbles are imported
into the pocket we find the largest fragments. If the shore of the bay be long, the innermost
part of the recess may show even only very small pebbles, or perhaps only fine sand, the coarser
material having been worn out in the journey. On the bottom of the bay, near low tide, we begin
to find some sand produced by the grinding action. Yet farther out, below high-tide mark, there
is commonly a layer of mud which represents the finer products of the mill.

Boulder beaches are so quick in answering to every slight change in the conditions which affect
them that they seem almost alive. If by any chance the supply of detritus is increased, they
fill in between the horns, diminish the incurve of the bay, and so cause its beach to be more
exposed to heavy waves. If, on the other hand, the supply of grist to the mill is diminished,
the beach becomes more deeply incurved, and the wave action is proportionately reduced. We
may say, in general, that the curve of these beaches represents a balance between the consumption
and supply of the pebbles which they grind up. The supply of pebbles brought along the shore
by the waves is in many cases greatly added to by a curious action of seaweeds. If the bottom
of the water off the coast is covered by these fragments, as is the case along many coast lines
within the old glaciated districts, the spores of algæ are prone to take root upon them. Fastening
themselves in those positions, and growing upward, the seaweeds may attain considerable size.
Being provided with floats, the plant exercises a certain lifting power on the stone, and finally
the tugging action of the waves on the fronds may detach the fragments from the bottom, making
them free to journey toward the shore. Observing from near at hand the straight wall of the
wave in times of heavy storm, the present writer has seen in one view as many as a dozen of
these plant-borne stones, sometimes six inches in diameter, hanging in the walls of water as
it was about to topple over. As soon as they strike the wave-beaten part of the shore these
stones are apt to become separated from the plants, though we can often notice the remains
or prints of the attachments adhering to the surface of the rock. Where the pebbles off the
shore are plenty, a rocky beach may be produced by this process of importation through the
agency of seaweeds without any supply being brought by the waves along the coast line.

Returning to sand beaches, we enter the most interesting field of contact between seas and
lands. Probably nine tenths of all the coast lines of the open ocean are formed of arenaceous
material. In general, sand consists of finely broken crystals of silica or quartz. These bits
are commonly distinctly faceted; they rarely have a spherical form. Not only do accumulations
of sand border most of the shore line, but they protect the land against the assaults of the
sea, and this in the following curious manner: When shore waves beat pebbles against each other,
they rapidly wear to bits; we can hear the sound of the wearing action as the wave goes to
and fro. We can often see that the water is discoloured by the mud or powdered rock. When,
however, the waves tumble on a sandy coast, they make but a muffled sound, and produce no mud.
In fact, the particles of sand do not touch each other when they receive the blow. Between
them there lies a thin film of water, drawn in by the attraction known as capillarity, which
sucks the fluid into a sponge or between plates of glass placed near together. The stroke of
the waves slightly compresses this capillary water, but the faces of the grains are kept apart
as sheets of glass may be observed to be restrained from contact when water is between them.
If the reader would convince himself as to the condition of the sand grains and the water which
is between them, he may do so by pressing his foot on the wet beach which the wave has just
left. He will observe that it whitens and sinks a little under the pressure, but returns in
good part to its original form when the foot is lifted. In the experiment he has pushed a part
of the contained water aside, but he has not brought the grains together; they do not make
the sound which he will often hear when the sand is dry. The result is that the sand on the
seashore may wear more in going the distance of a mile in the dry sand dune than in travelling
for hundreds along the wet shore.

If the rock matter in the state of sand wore as rapidly under the heating of the waves as it
does in the state of pebbles, the continents would doubtless be much smaller than they are.
Those coasts which have no other protection than is afforded by a low sand beach are often
better guarded against the inroads of the sea than the rock-girt parts of the continents. It
is on account of this remarkable endurance of sand of the action of the waves that the stratified
rocks which make up the crust of the earth are so thick and are to such an extent composed
of sand grains.

The tendency of the débris-making influences along the coast line is to fill in the irregularities
which normally exist there; to batter off the headlands, close up the bays and harbours, and
generally to reduce the shores to straight lines. Where the tide has access to these inlets,
it is constantly at work in dragging out the detritus which the waves make and thrust into
the recesses. These two actions contend with each other, and determine the conditions of the
coast line, whether they afford ports for commerce or are sealed in by sand bars, as are many
coast lines which are not tide-swept, as that of northern Africa, which faces the Mediterranean,
a nearly tideless sea. The same is the case with the fresh-water lakes; even the greater of
them are often singularly destitute of shelters which can serve the use of ships, and this
because there are no tides to keep the bays and harbours open.

                        THE OCEAN CURRENTS.

The system of ocean currents, though it exhibits much complication in detail, is in the main
and primarily dependent on the action of the constant air streams known as the trade winds.
With the breath from the lips over a basin of water we can readily make an experiment which
shows in a general way the method in which the winds operate in producing the circulation of
the sea. Blowing upon the surface of the water in the basin, we find that even this slight
impulse at once sets the upper part in motion, the movement being of two kinds--pulsating movements
or waves are produced, and at the same time the friction of the air on the surface causes its
upper part to slide over the under. With little floats we can shortly note that the stream
which forms passes to the farther side of the vessel, there divides, and returns to the point
of beginning, forming a double circle, or rather two ellipses, the longer sides of which are
parallel with the line of the air current. Watching more closely, aiding the sight by the particles
which float at various distances below the surface, we note the fact that the motion which
was at first imparted to the surface gradually extends downward until it affects the water
to the depth of some inches.

In the trade-wind belt the ocean waters to the depth of some hundreds of feet acquire a continuous
movement in the direction in which they are impelled by those winds. This motion is most rapid
at the surface and near the tropics. It diminishes downwardly in the water, and also toward
the polar sides of the trade-wind districts. Thus the trades produce in the sea two broad,
slow-moving, deep currents, flowing in the northern hemisphere toward the southwest, and in
the southern hemisphere toward the northwest. Coming down upon each other obliquely, these
broad streams meet about the middle of the tropical belt. Here, as before noted, the air of
the trade winds leaves the surface and rises upward. The waters being retained on their level,
form a current which moves toward the west. If the earth within the tropics were covered by
a universal sea, the result of this movement would be the institution of a current which, flowing
under the equator, would girdle the sphere.

With a girdling equatorial current, because of the intense heat of the tropics and the extreme
cold of the parallels beyond the fortieth degree of latitude, the earth would be essentially
uninhabitable to man, and hardly so to any forms of life. Its surface would be visited by fierce
winds induced by the very great differences of temperature which would then prevail. Owing,
however, to the barriers which the continents interpose to the motions of these windward-setting
tropical currents, all the water which they bear, when it strikes the opposing shores, is diverted
to the right and left, as was the stream in the experiment with the basin and the breath, the
divided currents seeking ways toward high latitudes, conveying their store of heat to the circumpolar
lands. So effective is this transfer of temperature that a very large part of the heat which
enters the waters in the tropical region is taken out of that division of the earth's surface
and distributed over the realms of sea and land which lie beyond the limits of the vertical
sun. Thus the Gulf Stream, the northern branch of the Atlantic tropical current, by flowing
into the North Atlantic, contributes to the temperature of the region within the Arctic Circle
more heat than actually comes to that district by the direct influx from the sun.

The above statements as to the climatal effect of the ocean streams show us how important it
is to obtain a sufficient conception as to the way in which these currents now move and what
we can of their history during the geologic ages. This task can not yet be adequately done.
The fields of the sea are yet too imperfectly explored to afford us all the facts required
to make out the whole story. Only in the case of our Gulf Stream can we form a full conception
as to the journey which the waters undergo and the consequence of their motion. In the case
of this current, observations clearly show that it arises from the junction near the equatorial
line of the broad stream created by the two trade-wind belts. Uniting at the equator, these
produce a westerly setting current, having the width of some hundred miles and a depth of several
hundred feet. Its velocity is somewhat greater than a mile an hour. The centre of the current,
because of the greater strength of the northern as compared with the southern trades, is considerably
south of the equator. When this great slow-moving stream comes against the coast of South America,
it encounters the projecting shoulder of that land which terminates at Cape St. Roque. There
it divides, as does a current on the bows of an anchored ship, a part--rather more than one
half--of the stream turning to the northward, the remainder passing toward the southern pole;
this northerly portion becomes what is afterward known as the Gulf Stream, the history of which
we shall now briefly follow.

Flowing by the northwesterly coast of South America, the northern share of the tropical current,
being pressed in against the land by the trade winds, is narrowed, and therefore acquires at
once a swifter flow, the increased speed being due to conditions like those which add to the
velocity of the water flowing through a hose when it comes to the constriction of the nozzle.
Attaining the line of the southeastern or Lesser Antilles, often known as the Windward Islands,
a part of this current slips through the interspaces between these isles and enters the Gulf
of Mexico. Another portion, failing to find sufficient room through these passages, skirts
the Antilles on their eastern and northern sides, passes by and among the Bahama Islands, there
to rejoin the part of the stream which entered the Caribbean. This Caribbean portion of the
tide spreads widely in that broad sea, is constricted again between Cuba and Yucatan, again
expands in the Gulf of Mexico, and is finally poured forth through the Straits of Florida as
a stream having the width of forty or fifty miles, a depth of a thousand feet or more, and
a speed of from three to five miles an hour, exceeding in its rate of flow the average of the
greatest rivers, and conveying more water than do all the land streams of the earth. In this
part of its course the deep and swift stream from the Gulf of Mexico, afterward to be named
the Gulf Stream, receives the contribution of slower moving and shallower currents which skirted
the Antilles on their eastern verge. The conjoined waters then move northward, veering toward
the east, at first as a swift river of the sea having a width of less than a hundred miles
and of great depth; with each step toward the pole this stream widens, diminishing proportionately
in depth; the speed of its current decreases as the original impetus is lost, and the baffling
winds set its surface waters to and fro in an irregular way. Where it passes Cape Hatteras
it has already lost a large share of its momentum and much of its heat, and is greatly widened.

Although the current of the Gulf Stream becomes more languid as we go northward, it for a very
long time retains its distinction from the waters of the sea through which it flows. Sailing
eastward from the mouth of the Chesapeake, the navigator can often observe the moment when
he enters the waters of this current. This is notable not only in the temperature, but in the
hue of the sea. North of that line the sharpness of the parting wall becomes less distinct,
the stream spreads out broadly over the surface of the Atlantic, yet its thermometric effects
are distinctly traceable to Iceland and Nova Zembla, and the tropical driftwood which it carries
affords the principal timber supply of the inhabitants of the first-named isle. He
saw, for example, the blackbird, which lay with outstretched wings on the table, then he saw
with extraordinary clarity the water container, from which he drank in his dungeon, and then he
saw a beautiful gold chain, which showed him the Lord of the treasure, which the pleasant Sensation
was connected to it aroused Stanhope white, delicate hand, he also found himself in Hall of
Nuremberg Castle, where Daumer him out, and his eyes stayed on the soft line a Gothic arch window
with a delight that he had not then surely felt.

They came to the crossroads, as the stranger rushed forward with outstretched arm, and gave some sign.
Caspar saw behind the bushes, two other people, their faces drawn
up by the Coat collars were covered completely.

Who wrote this?

"He hesitated and asked are, because he believed this was the appointed place.

With his eyes, he searched the car. The snow did not allow more than ten to see Ellen.

"Where's the car?" He asked. Since the stranger did not answer to both questions, he looked helpless
against the two behind the bushes. This is approaching, or seemed to, anyway. They called the pock-something,
first one and then the other.

Then they removed again and then stood on the other side of the road.

The stranger turned around, reached into the pocket of his jacket,
brought a purple purse to light and said in a hoarse voice: "Open
it and you will find in it the sign, which gave us your mother.

"

Caspar accepted the purse. While he tried to entknüpfen the string by it was tied up, lifted
the stranger a long, glittering object in his hand and jumped with his arm against Caspar's chest.

What
is it? Caspar'm shocked. He felt something icy slither deep into his flesh. Oh God, it stings
so, he thought, and stumbled here. He dropped the bag.

O monstrous, monstrous horrors! He grabbed one of the Baumstämmchen and tried to To shout but
could not. Suddenly he broke into the knee. Before his eyes was black. He wanted to ask the
stranger that he would help him, but the man's feet, which he still a Second before seen, were gone.
The blackness in front of more again, he found himself to no one
was there anymore, nor the two were behind the bushes gone.

He crawled
on all fours on a little scrub down and lowered her head down to to
protect his face from the wet snow dust that sprayed the wind against
him. He made a few movements with the body, as if looking for a cavity
in the earth to slip, could then no further, and remained seated. Their effect is, however,
probably small as compared with that massive drift which we have now to note.

The tropical waters when they attain high latitudes are constantly cooled, and are overlaid
by the warmer contributions of that tide, and are thus brought lower and lower in the sea.
When they start downward they have, as observations show, a temperature not much above the
freezing point of salt water. They do not congeal for the reason that the salt of the ocean
lowers the point at which the water solidifies to near 28° Fahr. The effect of this action
is gradually to press down the surface cold water until it attains the very bottom in all the
circumpolar regions. At the same time this descending water drifts along the bottom of the
ocean troughs toward the equatorial realm. As this cold water is heavier than that which is
of higher temperature and nearer the surface, it has no tendency to rise. Being below the disturbing
influences of any current save its own, it does not tend, except in a very small measure, to
mingle with the warmer overlying fluid. The result is that it continues its journey until it
may come within the tropics without having gained a temperature of more than 35° Fahr., the
increase in heat being due in small measure to that which it receives from the earth's interior
and that which it acquires from the overlying warmer water. Attaining the region of the tropical
current, this drift water from the poles gradually rises, to take the place of that which goes
poleward, becomes warm, and again starts on its surface journey toward the arctic and antarctic
regions.

Nothing is known as to the rate of this bottom drift from the polar districts toward the equator,
but, from some computation which he has made, the writer is of the opinion that several centuries
is doubtless required for the journey from the Arctic Circle to the tropics. The speed of the
movement probably varies; it may at times require some thousand years for its accomplishment.
The effect of the bottom drift is to withdraw from seas in high latitudes the very cold water
which there forms, and to convey it beneath the seas of middle latitudes to a realm where it
is well placed for the reheating process. If all the cold water of circumpolar regions had
to journey over the surface to the equator, the perturbing effect of its flow on the climates
of various lands would be far greater than it is at present. Where such cold currents exist
the effect is to chill the air without adding much to the rainfall; while the currents setting
northward not only warm the regions near which they flow, but by so doing send from the water
surfaces large quantities of moisture which fall as snow or rain. Thus the Gulf Stream, directly
and indirectly, probably contributes more than half the rainfall about the Atlantic basin.
The lack of this influence on the northern part of North America and Asia causes those lands
to be sterilized by cold, although destitute of permanent ice and snow upon their surfaces.

We readily perceive that the effect of the oceanic circulation upon the temperatures of different
regions is not only great but widely contrasted. By taking from the equatorial belt a large
part of the heat which falls within that realm, it lowers the temperature to the point which
makes the district fit for the occupancy of man, perhaps, indeed, tenable to all the higher
forms of life. This same heat removed to high latitudes tempers the winter's cold, and thus
makes a vast realm inhabitable which otherwise would be locked in almost enduring frosts. Furthermore,
this distribution of temperatures tends to reduce the total wind energy by diminishing the
trades and counter trades which are due to the variations of heat which are encountered in
passing polarward from the equator. Still further, but for this circulation of water in the
sea, the oceans about the poles would be frozen to their very bottom, and this vast sheet of
ice might be extended southward to within the parallels of fifty degrees north and south latitude,
although the waters under the equator might at the same time be unendurably hot and unfit for
the occupancy of living beings.

A large part of the difficulties which geologists encounter in endeavouring to account for
the changes of the past arise from the evidences of great climatal revolutions which the earth
has undergone. In some chapters of the great stone book, whose leaves are the strata of the
earth, we find it plainly written in the impressions made by fossils that all the lands beyond
the equatorial belt have undergone changes which can only be explained by the supposition that
the heat and moisture of the countries have been subjected to sudden and remarkable changes.
Thus in relatively recent times thick-leaved plants which retained their vegetation in a rather
tender state throughout the year have flourished near to the poles, while shortly afterward
an ice sheet, such as now covers the greater part of Greenland, extended down to the line of
the Ohio River at Cincinnati. Although these changes of climate are, as we shall hereafter
note, probably due to entangled causes, we must look upon the modifications of the ocean streams
as one of the most important elements in the causation. We can the more readily imagine such
changes to be due to the alterations in the course and volume of the ocean current when we
note how trifling peculiarities in the geography of the shores--features which are likely to
be altered by the endless changes which occur in the form of a continent--affect the run of
these currents. Thus the growth of coral reefs in southern Florida, and, in general, the formation
of that peninsula, by narrowing the exit of the great current from the Gulf of Mexico, has
probably increased its velocity. If Florida should again sink down, that current would go forth
into the North Atlantic with the speed of about a mile an hour, and would not have momentum
enough to carry its waters over half the vast region which they now traverse. If the lands
about the western border of the Caribbean Sea, particularly the Isthmus of Darien, should be
depressed to a considerable depth below the ocean level, the tropical current would enter the
Pacific Ocean, adding to the temperature of its waters all the precious heat which now vitalizes
the North Atlantic region. Such a geographic accident would not only profoundly alter the life
conditions of that part of the world, but it would make an end of European civilization.

In the chapter on climatal changes further attention will be given to the action of ocean currents
from the point of view of their influence on the heat and moisture of different parts of the
world. We now have to consider the last important influence of ocean currents--that which they
directly exercise on the development of organic life. The most striking effect of this nature
which the sea streams bring about is caused by the ceaseless transportation to which they subject
the eggs and seeds of animals and plants, as well as the bodies of the mature form which are
moved about by the flowing waters. But for the existence of these north and south flowing currents,
due to the presence of the continental barriers, the living tenants of the seas would be borne
along around the earth, always in the same latitude, and therefore exposed to the same conditions
of temperature. In this state of affairs the influences which now make for change in organic
species would be far less than they are. Journeying in the great whirlpools which the continental
barriers make out of the westward setting tropical currents, these organic species are ever
being exposed to alterations in their temperature conditions which we know to be favourable
to the creation of those variations on which the advance of organic life so intimately depends.
Thus the ocean currents not only help to vary the earth by producing changes in the climate
of both sea and land, breaking up the uniformity which would otherwise characterize regions
at the same distance from the equator, but they induce, by the consequences of the migrations
which they enforce, changes in the organic tenants of the sea.

Another immediate effect of ocean streams arises where their currents of warm water come against
shores or shallows of the sea. At these points, if the water have a tropical temperature, we
invariably find a vast and rapid development of marine animals and plants, of which the coral-making
polyps are the most important. In such positions the growth of forms which secrete solid skeletons
is so rapid that great walls of their remains accumulate next the shore, the mass being built
outwardly by successive growths until the realm of the land may be extended for scores of miles
into the deep. In other cases vast mounds of this organic débris may be accumulated in mid
ocean until its surface is interspersed with myriads of islands, all of which mark the work
due to the combined action of currents and the marine life which they nourish. Probably more
than four fifths of all the islands in the tropical belt are due in this way to the life-sustaining
action of the currents which the trade winds create.

There are many secondary influences of a less important nature which are due to the ocean streams.
The reader will find on most wall-maps of the world certain areas in the central part of the
oceans which are noted as Sargassum seas, of which that of the North Atlantic, west and south
of the Azore Islands, is one of the most conspicuous. In these tracts, which in extent may
almost be compared with the continents, we find great quantities of floating seaweed, the entangled
fronds of which often form a mass sufficiently dense to slightly restrain the speed of ships.
When the men on the caravels of Columbus entered this tangle, they were alarmed lest they should
be unable to escape from its toils. It is a curious fact that these weeds of the sea while
floating do not reproduce by spores the structures which answer to the seeds of higher plants,
but grow only by budding. It seems certain that they could not maintain their place in the
ocean but for the action of the currents which convey the bits rent off from the shores where
the plant is truly at home. This vast growth of plant life in the Sargassum basins doubtless
contributed considerable and important deposits of sediment to the sea floors beneath the waters
which it inhabits. Certain ancient strata, known as the Devonian black shale, occupying the
Ohio valley and the neighbouring parts of North America to the east and north of that basin,
appear to be accumulations which were made beneath an ancient Sargassum sea.

The ocean currents have greatly favoured and in many instances determined the migrations not
only of marine forms, but of land creatures as well. Floating timber may bear the eggs and
seeds of many forms of life to great distances until the rafts are cast ashore in a realm where,
if the conditions favour, the creatures may find a new seat for their life. Seeds of plants
incased in their often dense envelopes may, because they float, be independently carried great
distances. So it comes about that no sooner does a coral or other island rise above the waters
of the sea than it becomes occupied by a varied array of plants. The migrations of people,
even down to the time of the voyages which discovered America, have in large measure been controlled
by the run of the ocean streams. The tropical set of the waters to the westward helped Columbus
on his way, and enabled him to make a journey which but for their assistance could hardly have
been accomplished. This same current in the northern part of the Gulf Stream opposed the passage
of ships from northern Europe to the westward, and to this day affects the speed with which
their voyages are made.

                    THE CIRCUIT OF THE RAIN.

We have now to consider those movements of the water which depend upon the fact that at ordinary
temperatures the sea yields to the air a continued and large supply of vapour, a contribution
which is made in lessened proportion by water in all stages of coldness, and even by ice when
it is exposed to dry air. This evaporation of the sea water is proportional to the temperature
and to the dryness of the air where it rests upon the ocean. It probably amounts on the average
to somewhere about three feet per annum; in regions favourably situated for the process, as
on the west coast of northern Africa, it may be three or four times as much, while in the cold
and humid air about the poles it may be as little as one foot. When contributed to the air,
the water enters on the state of vapour, in which state it tends to diffuse itself freely through
the atmosphere by virtue of the motion which is developed in particles when in the vaporous
or gaseous state.

The greater part of the water evaporated from the seas probably finds its way as rain at once
back into the deep, yet a considerable portion is borne away horizontally until it encounters
the land. The precipitation of the water from the air is primarily due to the cooling to which
it is subjected as it rises in the atmosphere. Over the sea the ascent is accomplished by the
simple diffusion of the vapour or by the uprise through the aërial shaft, such as that near
the equator or over the centres of the whirling storms. It is when the air strikes the slopes
of the land that we find it brought into a condition which most decidedly tends to precipitate
its moisture. Lifted upward, the air as it ascends the slopes is brought into cooler and more
rarefied conditions. Losing temperature and expanding, it parts with its water for the same
reason that it does in the ascending current in the equatorial belt or in the chimneys of the
whirl storms. A general consequence of this is that wherever moisture-laden winds from the
sea impinge upon a continent they lay down a considerable part of the water which they contain.

If all the lands were of the same height, the rain would generally come in largest proportion
upon their coastal belt, or those portions of the shore-line districts over which the sea winds
swept. But as these winds vary in the amount of the watery vapour which they contain, and as
the surface of the land is very irregular, the rainfall is the most variable feature in the
climatal conditions of our sphere. Near the coasts it ranges from two or three inches in arid
regions--such as the western part of the Sahara and portions of the coast regions of Chili
and Peru--to eight hundred inches about the head waters of the Brahmapootra River in northern
India, where the high mountains are swept over by the moisture-laden airs from the neighbouring
sea. Here and there detached mountainous masses produce a singular local increase in the amount
of the rainfall. Thus in the lake district in northwestern England the rainfall on the seaward
side of mountains, not over four thousand feet high, is very much greater than it is on the
other slope, less than a score of miles away. These local variations are common all over the
world, though they are but little observed.

In general, the central parts of continents are likely to receive much less rainfall than their
peripheral portions. Thus the central districts of North America, Asia, and Australia--three
out of the five continental masses--have what we may call interior deserts. Africa has one
such, though it is north of the centre, and extends to the shores of the Mediterranean and
the Atlantic. The only continent without this central nearly rainless field is South America,
where the sole characteristic arid district is situated on the western slope of the Cordilleran
range. In this case the peculiarity is due to the fact that the strong westerly setting winds
which sweep over the country encounter no high mountains until they strike the Andean chain.
They journey up a long and rather gradual slope, where the precipitation is gradually induced,
the process being completed when they strike the mountain wall. Passing over its summit, they
appear as dry winds on the Pacific coast.

Even while the winds frequently blow in from the sea, as along the western coast of the Americas,
they may come over water which is prevailingly colder than the land. This is characteristically
the case on the western faces of the American continent, where the sea is cooled by the currents
setting toward the equator from high latitudes. Such cool sea air encountering the warm land
has its temperature raised, and therefore does not tend to lay down its burden of moisture,
but seeks to take up more. On this account the rainfall in countries placed under such conditions
is commonly small.

By no means all the moisture which comes upon the earth from the atmosphere descends in the
form of rain or snow. A variable, large, though yet undetermined amount falls in the form of
dew. Dew is a precipitation of moisture which has not entered the peculiar state which we term
fog or cloud, but has remained invisible in the air. It is brought to the earth through the
radiation of heat which continually takes place, but which is most effective during the darkened
half of the day, when the action is not counterbalanced by the sun's rays. While the sun is
high and the air is warm there is a constant absorption of moisture in large part from the
ground or from the neighbouring water areas, probably in some part from those suspended stores
of water, the clouds, if such there be in the neighbourhood. We can readily notice how clouds
drifting in from the sea often melt into the dry air which they encounter. Late in the afternoon,
even before the sun has sunk, the radiation of heat from the earth, which has been going on
all the while, but has been less considerable than the incurrent of temperature, in a way overtakes
that influx. The air next the surface becomes cooled from its contact with the refrigerating
earth, and parts with its moisture, forming a coating of water over everything it touches.
At the same time the moisture escaping from the warmed under earth likewise drops back upon
its cooled surface almost as soon as it has escaped. The thin sheet of water precipitated by
this method is quickly returned to the air when it becomes warmed by the morning sunshine,
but during the night quantities of it are absorbed by the plants; very often, indeed, with
the lowlier vegetation it trickles down the leaves and enters the earth about the base of the
stem, so that the roots may appropriate it. Our maize, or Indian corn, affords an excellent
example of a plant which, having developed in a land of droughts, is well contrived, through
its capacities for gathering dew, to protect itself against arid conditions. In an ordinary
dew-making night the leaves of a single stem may gather as much as half a pint of water, which
flows down their surfaces to the roots. So efficient is this dew supply, this nocturnal cloudless
rain, that on the western coast of South America and elsewhere, where the ordinary supply of
moisture is almost wanting, many important plants are able to obtain from it much of the water
which they need. The effect is particularly striking along seashores, where the air, although
it may not have the humidity necessary for the formation of rain, still contains enough to
form dew.

It is interesting to note that the quantity of dew which falls upon an area is generally proportioned
to the amount of living vegetation which it bears. The surfaces of leaves are very efficient
agents of radiation, and the tangle which they make offers an amount of heat-radiating area
many times as great as that afforded by a surface of bared earth. Moreover, the ground itself
can not well cool down to the point where it will wring the moisture out of the air, while
the thin membranes of the plants readily become so cooled. Thus vegetation by its own structure
provides itself with means whereby it may be in a measure independent of the accidental rainfall.
We should also note the fact that the dewfall is a concomitant of cloudless skies. The quantity
which is precipitated in a cloudy night is very small, and this for the reason that when the
heavens are covered the heat from the earth can not readily fly off into space. Under these
conditions the temperature of the air rarely descends low enough to favour the precipitation
of dew.

Having noted the process by which in the rain circuit the water leaves the sea and the conditions
of distribution when it returns to the earth, we may now trace in more detail the steps in
this great round. First, we should take note of the fact that the water after it enters the
air may come back to the surface of the earth in either of two ways--directly in the manner
of dewfall, or in a longer circuit which leads it through the state of clouds. As yet we are
not very well informed as to the law of the cloud-making, but certain features in this picturesque
and most important process have been tolerably well ascertained.

Rising upward from the sea, the vapour of water commonly remains transparent and invisible
until it attains a considerable height above the surface, where the cooling tends to make it
assume again the visible state of cloud particles. The formation of these cloud particles is
now believed to depend on the fact that the air is full of small dust motes, exceedingly small
bits of matter derived from the many actions which tend to bring comminuted solid matter into
the air, as, for instance, the combustion of meteoric stones, which are greatly heated by friction
in their swift course through the air, the ejections of volcanoes, the smoke of forest and
other fires, etc. These tiny bits, floating in the air, because of their solid nature radiate
their heat, cool the air which lies against them, and thereby precipitate the water in the
manner of dew, exactly as do the leaves and other structures on the surface of the earth. In
fact, dew formation is essentially like cloud formation, except that in the one case the water
is gathered on fixed bodies, and in the other on floating objects. Each little dust raft with
its cargo of condensed water tends, of course, to fall downward toward the earth's surface,
and, except for the winds which may blow upward, does so fall, though with exceeding slowness.
Its rate of descent may be only a few feet a day. It was falling before it took on the load
of water; it will fall a little more rapidly with the added burden, but even in a still air
it might be months or years before it would come to the ground. The reason for this slow descent
may not at first sight be plain, though a little consideration will make it so.

If we take a shot of small size and a feather of the same weight, we readily note that their
rate of falling through the air may vary in the proportion of ten to one or more. It is easy
to conceive that this difference is due to the very much less friction which the smaller body
encounters in its motion by the particles of air. With this point in mind, the student should
observe that the surface presented by solid bodies in relation to their solid contents is the
greater the smaller the diameter. A rough, though not very satisfactory, instance of this principle
may be had by comparing the surface and interior contents of two boxes, one ten feet square
and the other one foot square. The larger has six hundred feet of surface to one thousand cubic
feet of interior, or about half a square foot of outer surface to the cubic foot of contents;
while the smaller box has six feet of surface for the single cubic foot of interior, or about
ten times the proportion of exterior to contents. The result is that the smaller particles
encounter more friction in moving toward the earth, until, in the case of finely divided matter,
such as the particles of carbon in the smoke from an ordinary fire, the rate of down-falling
may be so small as to have little effect in the turbulent conditions of atmospheric motion.

The little drops of water which gather round dust motes, falling but slowly toward the earth,
are free to obey the attractions which they exercise upon each other--impulses which are partly
gravitative and partly electrical. We have no precise knowledge concerning these movements,
further than that they serve to aggregate the myriad little floats into cloud forms, in which
the rafts are brought near together, but do not actually touch each other. They are possibly
kept apart by electrical repulsion. In this state of association without union the divided
water may undergo the curiously modified aggregations which give us the varied forms of clouds.
As yet we know little as to the cause of cloud shapes. We remark the fact that in the higher
of these agglomerations of condensed vapour, the clouds which float at an elevation of from
twenty to thirty thousand feet or more, the masses are generally thin, and arranged more or
less in a leaflike form, though even here a tendency to produce spherical clouds is apparent.
In this high realm floating water is probably in the frozen state, answering to the form of
dew, which we call hoar frost. The lower clouds, gathering in the still air, show very plainly
the tendency to agglomerate into spheres, which appears to be characteristic of all vaporous
material which is free to move by its own impulses. It is probable that the spherical shape
of clouds is more or less due to the same conditions as gathered the stellar matter from the
ancient nebular chaos into the celestial spheres. Upon these spherical aggregations of the
clouds the winds act in extremely varied ways. The cloud may be rubbed between opposite currents,
and so flattened out into a long streamer; it may take the same form by being carried off by
a current in the manner of smoke from a fire; the spheres may be kept together, so as to form
the patchwork which we call "mackerel" sky; or they may be actually confounded with each other
in a vast common cloud-heap. In general, where the process of aggregation of two cloud bodies
occurs, changes of temperature are induced in the masses which are mixed together. If the temperature
resulting from this association of cloud masses is an average increase, the cloud may become
lighter, and in the manner of a balloon move upward. Each of the motes in the cloud with its
charge of vapour may be compared with the ballast of the balloon; if they are warmed, they
send forth a part of their load of condensed water again to the state of invisible vapour.
Rising to a point where it cools, the vapour gathers back on the rafts and tends again to weight
the cloud downward. The ballast of an ordinary balloon has to be thrown away from its car;
but if some arrangement for condensing the moisture from the air could be contrived, a balloon
might be brought into the adjustable state of a cloud, going up or down according as it was
heated or cooled.

When the formation of the drop of water or snowflake begins, the mass is very small. If in
descending it encounters great thickness of cloud, the bit may grow by further condensation
until it becomes relatively large. Generally in this way we may account for the diversities
in the size of raindrops or snowflakes. It often happens that the particles after taking on
the form of snowflakes encounter in their descent air so warm that they melt into raindrops,
or, if only partly melted, reach the surface as sleet. Or, starting as raindrops, they may
freeze, and in this simple state may reach the earth, or after freezing they may gather other
frozen water about them, so that the hailstone has a complicated structure which, from the
point of view of classification, is between a raindrop and a snowflake.

In the process of condensation--indeed, in the steps which precede the formation of rain and
snow--there is often more or less trace of electrical action; in fact, a part of the energy
which was involved in the vapourization of water, on its condensation, even on the dust motes
appears to be converted into electrical action, which probably operates in part to keep the
little aggregates of water asunder. When they coalesce in drops or flakes, this electricity
often assumes the form of lightning, which represents the swift passage of the electric store
from a region where it is most abundant to one where it is less so. The variations in this
process of conveying the electricity are probably great. In general, it probably passes, much
as an electric current is conveyed, through a wire from the battery which produces the force.
In other cases, where the tension is high, or, in other words, where the discharge has to be
hastened, we have the phenomena of lightning in which the current burns its way along its path,
as it may traverse a slender wire, vapourizing it as it goes. In general, the lightning flash
expends its force on the air conductors, or lines of the moist atmosphere along which it breaks
its path, its energy returning into the vapour which it forms or the heat which it produces
in the other parts of the air. In some cases, probably not one in the thousand of the flashes,
the charge is so heavy that it is not used up in its descent toward the earth, and so electrifies,
or, as we say, strikes, some object attached to the earth, through which it passes to the underlying
moisture, where it finds a convenient place to take on a quiet form. Almost all these hurried
movements of electrical energy which intensely heat and light the air which they traverse fly
from one part of a cloud to another, or cross from cloud sphere to cloud sphere; of those which
start toward the earth, many are exhausted before they reach its surface, and even those that
strike convey but a portion of their original impulse to the ground.

The wearing-out effect of lightning in its journey along the air conductors in its flaming
passages is well illustrated by what happens when the charge strikes a wire which is not large
enough freely to convey it. The wire is heated, generally made white hot, often melted, and
perhaps scattered in the form of vapour. In doing this work the electricity may, and often
is, utterly dissipated--that is, changed into heat. It has been proposed to take advantage
of this principle in protecting buildings from lightning by placing in them many thin wires,
along which the current will try to make its way, being exhausted in melting or vaporizing
the metal through which it passes.

There are certain other forms of lightning, or at least of electrical discharges, which produce
light and which may best be described in this connection. It occasionally happens that the
earth becomes so charged that the current proceeds from its surface to the clouds. More rarely,
and under conditions which we do not understand, the electric energy is gathered into a ball-like
form, which may move slowly along the surface until it suddenly explodes. It is a common feature
of all these forms of lightning which we have noted that they ordinarily make in their movement
considerable noise. This is due to the sudden displacement of the air which they traverse--displacement
due to the action of heat in separating the particles. It is in all essential regards similar
to the sounds made by projectiles, such as meteors or swift cannon shots, as they fly through
the air. It is even more comparable to the sound produced by exploding gunpowder. The first
sound effect from the lightning stroke is a single rending note, which endures no longer--indeed,
not as long--as the explosion of a cannon. Heard near by, this note is very sharp, reminding
one of the sound made by the breaking of glass. The rolling, continuous sound which we commonly
hear in thunder is, as in the case of the noise produced by cannon, due to echo from the clouds
and the earth. Thunder is ordinarily much more prolonged and impressive in a mountainous country
than in a region of plains, because the steeps about the hearer reverberate the original single
crash.

The distribution of thunderstorms is as yet not well understood, but it appears in many cases
that they are attendants on the advancing face of cyclones and hurricanes, the area in front
of these great whirlstorms being subjected to the condensation and irregular air movements
which lead to the development of much electrical energy. There are, however, certain parts
of the earth which are particularly subjected to lightning flashes. They are common in the
region near the equator, where the ascending currents bring about heavy rains, which mean a
rapid condensation and consequent liberation of electrical energy. They diminish in frequency
toward the arctic regions. An observer at the pole would probably fail ever to perceive strong
flashes. For the same reason thunderstorms are more frequent in summer, the time when the difference
in temperature between the surface and the upper air is greatest, when, therefore, the uprushes
of air are likely to be most violent. They appear to be more common in the night than in the
daytime, for the reason that condensation is favoured by the cooling which occurs in the dark
half of the day. It is rare, indeed, that a thunderstorm occurs near midday, a period when
the air is in most cases taking up moisture on account of the swiftly increasing heat.

There are other forms of electrical discharges not distinctly connected with the then existing
condensation of moisture. What the sailors call St. Elmo's fire--a brush of electric light
from the mast tops and other projections of the ship--indicates the passage of electrical energy
between the vessel and the atmosphere. Similar lights are said sometimes to be seen rising
from the surface of the water. Such phenomena are at present not satisfactorily explained.
Perhaps in the same group of actions comes the so-called "Jack-o'-lantern" or "Will-o'-the-wisp"
fires flashing from the earth in marshy places, which are often described by the common people,
but have never been observed by a naturalist. If this class of illuminations really exists,
we have to afford them some other explanation than that they are emanations of self-inflamed
phosphoretted hydrogen, a method of accounting for them which illogically finds a place in
many treatises on atmospheric phenomena. A gas of any kind would disperse itself in the air;
it could not dance about as these lights are said to do, and there is no chemical means known
whereby it could be produced in sufficient purity and quantity from the earth to produce the
effects which are described.[3]

[Footnote 3: The present writer has made an extended and careful study of marsh and swamp phenomena,
and is very familiar with the aspect of these fields in the nighttime. He has never been able
to see any sign of the Jack-o'-lantern light. Looking fixedly into any darkness, such as is
afforded by the depths of a wood, the eye is apt to imagine the appearance of faint lights.
Those who have had to do with outpost duty in an army know how the anxious sentry, particularly
if he is new to the soldier's trade, will often imagine that he sees lights before him. Sometimes
the pickets will be so convinced of the fact that they see lights that they will fire upon
the fiction of the imaginations. These facts make it seem probable that the Jack-o'-lantern
and his companion, the Will-o'-the-wisp, are stories of the overcredulous.]

In the upper air, or perhaps even beyond the limits of the field which deserves the name, in
the regions extending from the poles to near the tropics, there occur electric glowings commonly
known as the aurora borealis. This phenomenon occurs in both hemispheres. These illuminations,
though in some way akin to those of lightning, and though doubtless due to some form of electrical
action, are peculiar in that they are often attended by glows as if from clouds, and by pulsations
which indicate movements not at electric speed. As yet but little is known as to the precise
nature of these curious storms. It has been claimed, however, that they are related to the
sun spots; those periods when the solar spots are plenty, at intervals of about eleven years,
are the times of auroral discharges. Still further, it seems probable that the magnetic currents
of the earth, that circling energy which encompasses the sphere, moving round in a general
way parallel to the equator, are intensified during these illuminations of the circumpolar skies.

                    GEOLOGICAL WORK OF WATER.

We turn now to the geological work which is performed by falling water. Where the rain or snow
returns from the clouds to the sea, the energy of position given to the water by its elevation
above the earth through the heat which it acquired from the sun is returned to the air through
which it falls or to the ocean surface on which it strikes. In this case the circuit of the
rain is short and without geological consequence which it is worth while to consider, except
to note that the heat thus returned is likely to be delivered in another realm than that in
which the falling water acquired the store, thus in a small way modifying the climate. When,
however, the precipitation occurs on the surface of the land, the drops of frozen or fluid
water apply a part of their energy in important geological work, the like of which is not done
where they return at once to the sea.

We shall first consider what takes place when the water in the form of drops of rain comes
to the surface of the land. Descending as they do with a considerable speed, these raindrops
apply a certain amount of energy to the surface on which they fall. Although the beat of a
raindrop is proverbially light, the stroke is not ineffective. Observing what happens where
the action takes place on the surface of bare rock, we may notice that the grains of sand or
small pebbles which generally abound on such surfaces, if they be not too steeply inclined,
dance about under the blows which they receive. If we could cover hard plate glass, a much
firmer material than ordinary stone, with such bits, we should soon find that its surface would
become scratched all over by the friction. Moreover, the raindrops perceptibly urge the small
detached bits of stone down the slopes toward the streams.

If all the earth's surface were bare rocks, the blow of the raindrops would deserve to be reckoned
among the important influences which lead to the wearing of land. As it is, when a country
is in a state of Nature, only a small part of its surface is exposed to this kind of wearing.
Where there is rain enough to effect any damage, there is sure to be sufficient vegetation
to interpose a living and self-renewed covering between the rocks and the rain. Even the lichens
which coat what at first sight often seems to be bare rock afford an ample covering for this
purpose. It is only where man bares the field by stripping away and overturning this protecting
vegetation that the raindrops cut away the earth. The effect of their action can often be noted
by observing how on ploughed ground a flat stone or a potsherd comes after a rain to cap a
little column. The geologist sometimes finds in soft sandstones that the same action is repeated
in a larger way where a thin fragment of hard rock has protected a column many feet in height
against the rain work which has shorn down the surrounding rock.

When water strikes the moistened surface it at once loses the droplike form which all fluids
assume when they fall through the air.[4]

[Footnote 4: This principle of the spheroidal form in falling fluids is used in making ordinary
bird shot. The melted lead drops through sievelike openings, the resulting spheres of the metal
being allowed to fall into water which chills them. Iron shot, used in cutting stone, where
they are placed between the saw and the surface of the rock, are also made in the same manner.
The descending fluid divides into drops because it is drawn out by the ever-increasing speed
of the falling particles, which soon make the stream so thin that it can not hold together.]

When the raindrops coalesce on the surface of the earth, the rôle of what we may call land
water begins. Thenceforward until the fluid arrives at the surface of the sea it is continually
at work in effecting a great range of geological changes, only a few of which can well be traced
by the general student. The work of land water is due to three classes of properties--to the
energy with which it is endowed by virtue of its height above the sea, a power due to the heat
of the sun; to the capacity it has for taking substances into solution; and to its property
of giving some part of its own substance to other materials with which it comes in contact.
The first of these groups of properties may be called dynamical; the others, chemical.

The dynamic value of water when it falls upon the land is the amount of energy it can apply
in going down the slope which separates it from the sea. A ton of the fluid, such as may gather
in an ordinary rain on a thousand square feet of ground in the highlands of a country--say
at an elevation of a thousand feet above the sea--expends before it comes to rest in the great
reservoir as much energy as would be required to lift that weight from the ocean's surface
to the same height. The ways in which this energy may be expended we shall now proceed in a
general way to trace.

As soon as the water has been gathered, from its drop to its sheet state--a process which takes
place as soon as it falls--the fluid begins its downward journey. On this way it is at once
parted into two distinct divisions, the surface water and the ground water: the former courses
more or less swiftly, generally at the rate of a mile or more an hour, in the light of day;
the latter enters the interstices of the earth, slowly descends therein to a greater or less
depth, and finally, journeying perhaps at the rate of a mile a year, rejoins the surface water,
escaping through the springs. The proportion of these two classes, the surface and the ground
water, varies greatly, and an intermixture of them is continually going on. Thus on the surface
of bare rock or frozen earth all the rain may go away without entering the ground. On very
sandy fields the heaviest rainfall may be taken up by the porous earth, so that no streams
are found. On such surfaces the present writer has observed that a rainfall amounting to six
inches in depth in two hours produced no streams whatever. We shall first follow the history
of the surface water, afterward considering the work which the underground movements effect.

If the student will observe what takes place on a level ploughed field--which, after all, will
not be perfectly level, for all fields are more or less undulating--he will note that, though
the surface may have been smoothed by a roller until it appears like a floor, the first rain,
where the fall takes place rapidly enough to produce surface streams, will create a series
of little channels which grow larger as they conjoin, the whole appearing to the eye like a
very detailed map, or rather model, of a river system; it is, indeed, such a system in miniature.
If he will watch the process by which these streamlet beds are carved, he will obtain a tolerably
clear idea as to that most important work which the greater streams do in carving the face
of the lands. The water is no sooner gathered into a sheet than, guided by the slightest irregularities
which it encounters, it begins to flow. At first the motion is so slow that it does not disturb
its bed, but at some points in the bottom of the sheet the movement soon becomes swift enough
to drag the grains of sand and clay from their adhesions, bearing them onward. As soon as this
beginning of a channel is formed the water moves more swiftly in the clearer way; it therefore
cuts more rapidly, deepening and enlarging its channel, and making its motion yet more free.
The tiny rills join the greater, all their channels sway to and fro as directed this way and
that by chance irregularities, until something like river basins are carved out, those gentle
slopes which form broad valleys where the carving has been due to the wanderings of many streams.
If the field be large, considerable though temporary brooks may be created, which cut channels
perhaps a foot in depth. At the end of this miniature stream system we always find some part
of the waste which has been carved out. If the streamlet discharges into a pool, we find the
tiny representative of deltas, which form such an important feature on the coast line where
large rivers enter seas or lakes. Along the lines of the stream we may observe here and there
little benches, which are the equivalent in all save size of the terraces that are generally
to be observed along the greater streams. In fact, these accidents of an acre help in a most
effective way the student to understand the greater and more complicated processes of continental
erosion.

A normal river--in fact, all the greater streams of the earth--originates in high country,
generally in a region of mountains. Here, because of the elevation of the region, the streams
have cut deep gorges or extensive valleys, all of which have slopes leading steeply downward
to torrent beds. Down these inclined surfaces the particles worn off from the hard rock by
frost and by chemical decay gradually work their way until they attain the bed of the stream.
The agents which assist gravitation in bearing this detritus downward are many, but they all
work together for the same end. The stroke of the raindrop accomplishes something, though but
little; the direct washing action of the brooklets which form during times of heavy rain, but
dry out at the close of the storm, do a good deal of the work; thawing and freezing of the
water contained in the mass of detritus help the movement, for, although the thrust is in both
directions, it is most effective downhill; the wedges of tree roots, which often penetrate
between and under the stones, and there expand in their process of growth, likewise assist
the downward motion. The result is that on ordinary mountain slopes the layer of fragments
constituting the rude soil is often creeping at the rate of from some inches to some feet a
year toward the torrent bed. If there be cliffs at the top of the slope, as is often the case,
very extensive falls of rock may take place from it, the masses descending with such speed
that they directly attain the stream. If the steeps be low and the rock divided into vertical
joints, especially where there is a soft layer at the base of the steep, detached masses from
the precipice may move slowly and steadfastly down the slope, so little disturbed in their
journey that trees growing upon their summits may continue to develop for the thousands of
years before the mass enters the stream bed.

Although the fall of rocks from precipices does not often take place in a conspicuously large
way, all great mountain regions which have long been inhabited by man abound in traditions
and histories of such accidents. Within a century or two there have been a dozen or more catastrophes
of this nature in the inhabited valleys of the Alps. As these accidents are at once instructive
and picturesque, it is well to note certain of them in some detail. At Yvorgne, a little parish
on the north shore of the Rhône, just above the lake of Geneva, tradition tells that an ancient
village of the name was overwhelmed by the fall of a great cliff. The vast débris forming the
steep slope which was thus produced now bears famous vineyards, but the vintners fancy that
they from time to time hear deep in the earth the ringing of the bells which belonged to the
overwhelmed church. In 1806 the district of Goldau, just north of Lake Lucerne, was buried
beneath the ruins of a peak which, resting upon a layer of clay, slipped away like a launching
ship on the surface of the soft material. The débris overwhelmed a village and many detached
houses, and partly filled a considerable lake. The wind produced by this vast rush of falling
rock was so great that people were blown away by it; some, indeed, were killed in this singular
manner.

The most interesting field of these Swiss mountain falls is a high mountain valley of amphitheatrical
form, known as the Diablerets, or the devil's own district. This great circus, which lies at
the height of about four thousand feet above the sea, is walled around on its northern side
by a precipice, above which rest, or rather once rested, a number of mountain peaks of great
bulk. The region has long been valued for the excellent pasturage which the head of the valley
affords. Two costly roads, indeed, have been built into it to afford footpaths for the flocks
and herds and their keepers in the summer season. Through this human experience with the valley,
we have a record of what has gone on in this part of the mountain wilderness. Within the period
of history and tradition, three very great mountain falls have occurred in this field, each
having made its memory good by widespread disaster which it brought to the people of the chalets.
The last of these was brought about by the fall of a great peak which spread itself out in
a vast field of ruins in the valley below. The belt of destruction was about half a mile wide
and three miles long. When the present writer last saw it, a quarter of a century ago, it was
still a wilderness of great rocks, but here and there the process of their decay was giving
a foothold for herbage, and in a few centuries the field will doubtless be so verdure-clad
that its story will not be told on its face. It is likely, however, to be preserved in the
memory of the people, and this through a singular and pathetic tradition which has grown up
about the place, one which, if not true, comes at least among the legends which we should like
to believe.

As told the present writer by a native of the district, it happened when, in the nighttime
the mountain came down, the herdsmen and their cows gathered in the chalets--stout buildings
which are prepared to resist avalanches of snow. In one of these, which was protected from
crushing by the position of the stones which covered it, a solitary herdsman found himself
alive in his unharmed dwelling. With him in the darkness were the cows, a store of food and
water, and his provisions for the long summer season. With nothing but hope to animate him,
he set to work burrowing upward among the rocks, storing the débris in the room of the chalet.
He toiled for some months, but finally emerged to the light of day, blanched by his long imprisonment
in the darkness, but with the strength to bear him to his home. In place of the expected warm
welcome, the unhappy man found himself received as a ghost. He was exorcised by the priest
and driven away to the distance. It was only when long afterward his path of escape was discovered
that his history became known.

Returning to the account of the débris which descends at varied speed into the torrents, we
find that when the detritus encounters the action of these vigorous streams it is rapidly ground
to pieces while it is pushed down the steep channels to the lower country. Where the stones
are of such size that the stream can urge them on, they move rapidly; at least in times when
the torrent is raging. They beat over each other and against the firm-set rocks; the more they
wear, the smaller they become, and the more readily they are urged forward. Where the masses
are too large to be stirred by the violent current, they lie unmoved until the pounding of
the rolling stones reduces them to the proportions where they may join the great procession.
Ordinarily those who visit mountains behold their torrents only in their shrunken state, when
the waters stir no stones, and fail even to bear a charge of mud, all detachable materials
having been swept away when the streams course with more vigour. In storm seasons the conditions
are quite otherwise; then the swollen torrents, their waters filled with clay and sand, bear
with them great quantities of boulders, the collisions of which are audible above the muffled
roar of the waters, attesting the very great energy of the action.

When the waste on a mountain slope lies at a steep angle, particularly where the accumulation
is due to the action of ancient glaciers, it not infrequently happens that when the ground
is softened with frost great masses of the material rush down the slope in the manner of landslides.
The observer readily notes that in many mountain regions, as, for instance, in the White Mountains
of New Hampshire, the steep slopes are often seamed by the paths of these great landslides.
Their movement, indeed, is often begun by sliding snow, which gives an impulse to the rocks
and earth which it encounters in its descent. At a place known as the Wylie Notch, in the White
Mountains, in the early part of this century, a family of that name was buried beneath a mass
of glacial waste which had hung on the mountain slope from the ancient days until a heavy rain,
following on a period of thaw, impelled the mass down the slope. Although there have been few
such catastrophes noted in this country, it is because our mountains have not been much dwelt
in. As they become thickly inhabited as the Alps are, men are sure to suffer from these accidents.

As the volume of a mountain torrent increases through the junction of many tributaries, the
energy of its moving waters becomes sufficient to sweep away the fragments which come to its
bed. Before this stage is attained the stream rarely touches the solid under rock of the mountain,
the base of the current resting upon the larger loose stones which it was unable to stir. In
this pebble-paved section, because the stream could not attack the foundation rock, we find
no gorges--in fact, the whole of this upper section of the torrent system is peculiarly conditioned
by the fact that the streams are dealing not with bed-rock, but with boulders or smaller loose
fragments. If they cut a little channel, the materials from either side slip the faster, and
soon repave the bed. But when the streams have by a junction gained strength, and can keep
their beds clear, they soon carve down a gorge through which they descend from the upper mountain
realm to the larger valleys, where their conjoined waters take on a riverlike aspect. It should
be noted here that the cutting power of the water moving in the torrent or in the wave, the
capacity it has for abrading rock, resides altogether in the bits of stone or cutting tools
with which it is armed. Pure water, because of its fluidity, may move over or against firm-set
stones for ages without wearing them; but in proportion as it moves rocky particles of any
size, the larger they are, the more effective the work, it wears the rock over which it flows.
A capital instance of this may be found where a stream from a hose is used in washing windows.
If the water be pure, there is no effect upon the glass; but if it be turbid, containing bits
of sand, in a little while the surface will appear cloudy from the multitude of line scratches
which the hard bits impelled by the water have inflicted upon it. A somewhat similar case occurs
where the wind bears sand against window panes or a bottle which has long lain on the shore.
The glass will soon be deeply carved by the action, assuming the appearance which we term "ground."
This principle is made use of in the arts. Glass vessels or sheets are prepared for carving
by pasting paper cut into figures on their surfaces. The material is then exposed to a jet
of air or steam-impelling sand grains; in a short time all the surface which has not been protected
by paper has its polish destroyed and is no longer translucent.

The passage from the torrent to the river, though not in a geographical way distinct, is indicated
to the observant eye by a simple feature--namely, the appearance of alluvial terraces, those
more or less level heaps of water-borne débris which accumulate along the banks of rivers,
which, indeed, constitute the difference between those streams and torrents. Where the mountain
waters move swiftly, they manage to bear onward the waste which they receive. Even where the
blocks of stone cling in the bed, it is only a short time before they are again set in motion
or ground to pieces. If by chance the detritus accumulates rapidly, the slope is steepened
and the work of the torrent made more efficient. As the torrent comes toward the base of the
mountains, where it neither finds nor can create steep slopes over which to flow, its speed
necessarily diminishes. With each reduction in this feature its carrying power very rapidly
diminishes. Thus water flowing at the rate of ten miles an hour can urge stones four times
the mass that it can move when its speed is reduced to half that rate. The result is that on
the lowlands, with their relatively gentle slopes, the combined torrents, despite the increase
in the volume of the stream arising from their confluence, have to lay down a large part of
their load of detritus.

If we watch where a torrent enters a mountain river, we observe that the main stream in a way
sorts over the waste contributed to it, bearing on only those portions which its rate of flow
will permit it to carry, leaving the remainder to be built into the bank in the form of a rude
terrace. This accumulation may not extend far below the point where the torrent which imported
the débris joins the main stream; a little farther down, however, we are sure to find another
such junction and a second accumulation of terrace material. As these contributions increase,
the terrace accumulations soon become continuous, lying on one side or the other of the river,
sometimes bordering both banks of the stream. In general, it can be said that so long as the
rate of fall of the torrent exceeds one hundred feet to the mile it does not usually exhibit
these shelves of detritus. Below that rate of descent they are apt to be formed. Much, however,
depends upon the amount of detritus which the stream bears and the coarseness of it; moreover,
where the water goes through a gorge in the manner of a flume with steep rocky sides, it can
urge a larger amount before it than when it traverses a wide valley, through which it passes,
it may be, in a winding way.

At first sight it may seem rather a fine distinction to separate torrents from rivers by the
presence or absence of terraces. As we follow down the stream, however, and study its action
in relation to these terraces, and the peculiar history of the detritus of which they are composed,
we perceive that these latter accumulations are very important features. Beginning at first
with small and imperfect alluvial plains, the river, as it descends toward the sea, gaining
in store of water and in the amount of débris which comes with that water from the hills, while
the rate of fall and consequent speed of the current are diminished, soon comes to a stage
where it is engaged in an endless struggle with the terrace materials. In times of flood, the
walls of the terraces compel the tide to flow over the tops of these accumulations. Owing to
the relative thinness of the water beyond the bed, and to the growth of vegetation there, the
current moves more slowly, and therefore lays down a considerable deposit of the silt and sand
which it contains. This may result during a single flood in lifting the level of the terrace
by some inches in height, still further serving to restrict the channel. Along the banks of
the Mississippi and other large rivers the most of this detritus falls near the stream; a little
of it penetrates to the farther side of the plains, which often have a width of ten miles or
more. The result is that a broad elevation is constructed, a sort of natural mole or levee,
in a measure damming the flood waters, which can now only enter the "back swamps" through the
channels of the tributary streams. Each of these back swamps normally discharges into the main
stream through a little river of its own, along the banks of which the natural levees do not
develop.

We have now to note a curious swinging movement of rivers which was first well observed by
the skilful engineers of British India. This movement can best be illustrated by its effects.
If on any river which winds through alluvial plains a jetty is so constructed as to deflect
the stream at any point, the course which it follows will be altered during its subsequent
flow, it may be, for the distance of hundreds of miles. It will be perceived that in its movements
a river normally strikes first against one shore and then against the other. Its water in a
general way moves as does a billiard ball when it flies from one cushion to another. It is
true that in a torrent we have the same conditions of motion; but there the banks are either
of hard rock or, if of detritus, they are continually moving into the stream in the manner
before described. In the case of the river, however, its points of collision are often on soft
banks, which are readily undermined by the washing action of the stream. In the ordinary course
of events, the river beginning, we may imagine, with a straight channel, had its current deflected
by some obstacle, it may be even by the slight pressure of a tributary stream, is driven against
one bank; thence it rebounds and strikes the other. At each point of impinge it cuts the alluvium
away. It can bear on only a small portion of that which it thus obtains; the greater part of
the material is deposited on the opposite side of the stream, but a little lower down, where
it makes a shallow. On these shallows water-loving plants and even certain trees, such as the
willows and poplars, find a foothold. When the stream rises, the sediment settles in this tangle,
and soon extends the alluvial plain from the neighbouring bank, or in rarer cases the river
comes to flow on either side of an island of its own construction. The natural result of this
billiard-ball movement of the waters is that the path of the stream is sinuous. The less its
rate of fall and the greater the amount of silt it obtains from its tributaries, the more winding
its course becomes. This gain in those parts of the river's curvings where deposition tends
to take place may be accelerated by tree-planting. Thus a skilful owner of a tract of land
on the south bank of the Ohio River, by assiduously planting willow trees on the front of his
property, gained in the course of thirty years more than an acre in the width of his arable
land. When told by the present writer that he was robbing his neighbours on the other side
of the stream, he claimed that their ignorance of the laws of river motion was sufficient evidence
that they did not deserve to own land.

In the primitive state of a country the water-loving plants, particularly the trees which flourish
in excessively humid conditions, generally make a certain defence against these incursions
of the streams. But when a river has gained an opening in the bank it can, during a flood,
extend its width often to the distance of hundreds of feet. During the inundations of the Mississippi
the river may at times be seen to eat away acres of land in a single day along one of the outcurves
of its banks. The undermined forests falling into the flood join the great procession of drift
timber, composed of trees which have been similarly uprooted, which occupies the middle part
of the stream. This driftwood belt often has a width of three or four hundred feet, the entangled
stems and branches making it difficult for a boat to pass from one side of the river to the other.

When the curves of a river have been developed to a certain point (see Fig. 11), when they
have attained what is called the "oxbow" form, it often happens that the stream breaks through
the isthmus which connects one of the peninsulas with the mainland. Where, as is not infrequently
the case, the bend has a length of ten miles or more, the water just above and below the new-made
opening is apt to differ in height by some feet. Plunging down the declivity, the stream, flowing
with great velocity, soon enlarges the channel so that its whole tide may take the easier way.
When this result is accomplished, the old curve is deserted, sand bars are formed across their
mouths, which may gradually grow to broad alluvial plains, so that the long-surviving, crescent-shaped
lake, the remnant of the river bed, may be seen far from the present course of the ever-changing
stream. Gradually the accumulations of vegetable matter and the silt brought in by floods efface
this moat or oxbow cut-off, as it is so commonly termed.

As soon as the river breaks through the neck of a peninsula in the manner above described,
the current of the stream becomes much swifter for many miles below and above the opening.
Slowly, however, the slopes are rearranged throughout its whole course, yet for a time the
stream near the seat of the change becomes straighter than before, and this for the reason
that its swifter current is better able to dispose of the débris which is supplied to it. The
effect of a change in the current produced by such new channels as we have described as forming
across the isthmuses of bends is to perturb the course of the stream in all its subsequent
downward length. Thus an oxbow cut-off formed near the junction of the Ohio and Mississippi
may tend more or less to alter the swings of the Mississippi all the way to the Gulf of Mexico.

Although the swayings of the streams to and fro in their alluvial plains will give the reader
some idea as to the struggle which the greater rivers have with the débris which is committed
to them, the full measure of the work and its consequences can only be appreciated by those
who have studied the phenomena on the ground. A river such as the Mississippi is endlessly
endeavouring to bear its burden to the sea. If its slope were a uniform inclined plane, the
task might readily be accomplished; but in this, as in almost all other large water ways, the
slope of the bed is ever diminishing with its onward course. The same water which in the mountain
torrent of the Appalachians or Cordilleras rolled along stones several feet in diameter down
slopes of a hundred feet or more to the mile can in the lower reaches of the stream move no
pebbles which are more than one fourth of an inch in diameter over slopes which descend on
the average about half a foot in a mile. Thus at every stage from the torrent to the sea the
detritus has from time to time to rest within the alluvial banks, there awaiting the decay
which slowly comes, and which may bring it to the state where it may be dissolved in the water,
or divided into fragments so small that the stream may bear them on. A computation which the
present writer has made shows that, on the average, it requires about forty thousand years
for a particle of stone to make its way down the Mississippi to the sea after it has been detached
from its original bed. Of course, some bits may make the journey straightforwardly; others
may require a far greater time to accomplish the course which the water itself makes at most
in a few weeks. This long delay in the journey of the detritus--a delay caused by its frequent
rests in the alluvial plain--brings about important consequences which we will now consider.

As an alluvial plain is constructed, we generally find at the base pebbly material which fell
to the bottom in the current of the main stream as the shores grew outward. Above this level
we find the deposits laid down by the flood waters containing no pebbles, and this for the
reason that those weightier bits remained in the stream bed when the tide flowed over the plain.
As the alluvial deposit is laid down, a good deal of vegetable matter was built into it. Generally
this has decayed and disappeared. On the surface of the plain there has always been growing
abundant vegetation, the remains of which decayed on the surface in the manner which we may
observe at the present day. This decomposing vegetable matter within and upon the porous alluvial
material produces large quantities of carbonic acid, a gas which readily enters the rain water,
and gives it a peculiar power of breaking up rock matter. Acting on the débris, this gas-charged
water rapidly brings about a decay of the fragments. Much of the material passes at once into
solution in this water, and drains away through the multitudinous springs which border the
river. As this matter is completely dissolved, as is sugar in water, it goes straight away
to the sea without ever again entering the alluvium. In many, if not most, cases this dissolving
work which is going on in alluvial terraces is sufficient to render a large part of the materials
which they contain into the state where it disappears in an unseen manner; thus while the annual
floods are constantly laying down accumulations on the surface of these plains, the springs
are bearing it away from below.

In this way, through the decomposition which takes place in them, all those river terraces
where much vegetable matter is mingled with the mineral substances, become laboratories in
which substances are brought into solution and committed to the seas. We find in the water
of the ocean a great array of dissolved mineral substances; it, indeed, seems probable that
the sea water contains some share, though usually small, of all the materials which rivers
encounter in their journey over and under the lands. As the waters of the sea obtain but little
of this dissolved matter along the coast, it seems likely that the greater share of it is brought
into the state of solution in the natural laboratories of the alluvial plains.

Here and there along the sides of the valleys in which the rivers flow we commonly find the
remains of ancient plains lying at more or less considerable heights above the level of the
streams. Generally these deposits, which from their form are called terraces, represent the
stages of down-wearing by which the stream has carved out its way through the rocks. The greater
part of these ancient alluvial plains has been removed through the ceaseless swinging of the
stream to and fro in the valley which it has excavated.

In all the states of alluvial plains, whether they be the fertile deposits near the level of
the streams which built them, or the poorer and ruder surfaced higher terraces, they have a
great value to mankind. Men early learned that these lands were of singularly uniform goodness
for agricultural use. They are so light that they were easily delved with the ancient pointed
sticks or stone hoes, or turned by the olden, wooden plough. They not only give a rich return
when first subjugated, but, owing to the depth of the soil and the frequency with which they
are visited by fertilizing inundations, they yield rich harvests without fertilizing for thousands
of years. It is therefore not surprising that we find the peoples who depended upon tillage
for subsistence first developed on the great river plains. There, indeed, were laid the foundations
of our higher civilization; there alone could the state which demands of its citizens fixed
abodes and continuous labour take rise. In the conditions which these fields of abundance afforded,
dense populations were possible, and all the arts which lead toward culture were greatly favoured.
Thus it is that the civilization of China, India, Persia, and Egypt, the beginnings of man's
higher development, began near the mouths of the great river valleys. These fields were, moreover,
most favourably placed for the institution of commerce, in that the arts of navigation, originating
in the sheltered reaches of the streams, readily found its way through the estuaries to the
open sea.

Passing down the reaches of a great river as it approaches the sea, we find that the alluvial
plains usually widen and become lower. At length we attain a point where the flood waters cover
the surface for so large a part of the year that the ground is swampy and untillable unless
it is artificially and at great expense of labour won to agriculture in the manner in which
this task has been effected in the lower portion of the Rhine Valley. Still farther toward
the sea, the plain gradually dips downward until it passes below the level of the waters. Through
this mud-flat section the stream continues to cut channels, but with the ever-progressive slowing
of its motion the burden of fine mud which it carries drops to the bottom, and constantly closes
the paths through which the water escapes. Every few years they tend to break a new way on
one side or the other of their former path. Some of the greatest engineering work done in modern
times has been accomplished by the engineers engaged in controlling the exits of large rivers
to the sea. Since no one can save and help neither a man nor a God. How lost
freedom is recovered? Due to a coming from the depths of the people And storm surge of moral forces.
About how they are now conquering faith in Germania with the flames of hatred and love.

But here! Where in Italy is, I'm not saying faith and conscience, as the old for you Things are,
but the legal sense and conviction? Not even honor and shame is still you, only the naked selfishness.
What vermöget you Italians? Seduction, betrayal and assassination. What are you while I count?
On the favor of the facts on the dice of chance, the play of Policy. So, so no nation is founded
renewed. Verily I say unto you, Chancellor "- and Pescara raised his voice as to a verdict
- "your Italy is arbitrary and fantastic, like yourself and your conspiracy it! "

"Truth," was heard the voice of Moncada.

"Even the hero, Morone, the habet their chosen you, devoid of life."

But this quiet last words were shouted at Pescara. Morone had his head quickly turned and saw
the knight his attack as he saw the Spaniard revealed, fell he in a rage, his features distorted,
and he raged like a madman. "False and cruel! Wrong and cruel! Oh, I beaten with blindness! "Then overwhelmed
by mindless vengeance, he shouted against Moncada: "Know it, knight,
this" - he pointed to the commander - "is the culprit!

Because of him the whole conspiracy! I am his creature, and now I sacrifice the monster! "

Now the Duke jumped in, with the Del Guasto standing behind the passionate Pescara Occurs enjoyed.
"Saute, Paillasse mon ami, pour tout le monde saute!" he taunted Morone. "Yes, if we had not
listened to, we two BWA, behind the red curtain and the golden Tassel there! I must tell the time,
treasure, it's hilarious. Did not hear you, I auspfiff you? "Then, suddenly becoming serious,
he turned down the view of Moncada, put his hand on his chest, emphasizing
that: "In my royal blood, has the commander at that hour is not yesterday's
hair fluctuated widely in his honor and loyalty!

"

Morone was destroyed.

Del Guasto laid hands on him and pulled him away. "Lord Chancellor" he scoffed, "you bedanket will save
you the torture our listening." The Duke was, a pleading gesture Pescara obedience.

"Your excellency," began Moncada, "here I am convinced. This Ye always just your game driven
perhaps condescending, as is seemly for Spanish pride. With such a man conspired no Pescara. But,
your excellency, in his impotent rage, this mendacious Spoken truth when he accused you, the
author of Italian conspiracy be. Not the author, but the beneficiaries. Do not discouraging habet,
you nourished and raised.

It was easy to say a decisive word, and to halt their support with an indignant and highly visible
gesture. This did not you habet.

It defers as a dark and interpretable form. "

"Knight", Pescara interrupted him, "Do not I have to give account of my tuna and leave, but
only my Emperor. "

"Your king," said Moncada.

"To call it, you commanded the respect, because a King of Spain is more than the emperor. And the
grandson of Ferdinand is a King of Spain be. Karl develops slowly, and under different competing
influences, but his Spanish blood is growing in strength and his German soak up the last drop.
He loathed the heresy, and his piety will make him a Spaniard. "He said this with a quiet smile
and enthusiastic eyes shine.

"Avalos," he continued, "your fathers who fought for the faith against the Muslim nations, sailed
up your ancestor with that of Alfonso in Naples. Return to your origins! The noble blood flows in your veins.
As you can see that the great loves procrastinating between the Spanish
world of thought and the wretched Italian machinations?

Ours is the Earth, as she obeyed once the Romans. See the wonderful ways of God: Castile and
Aragon married, Burgundy and Flanders acquired the empire gained a discovered and conquered
new world, and all that dominant, people with a steeled, a blessed, twofold in blood baptized
heathen sword! What gave you that misery, Spain gives you a thousand times: Treasures, country,
fame, and - heaven!

Because we are fighting for the heavens and the Catholic belief that a church rule on earth. Otherwise,
God became man would be in vain. Foreseeing, as in these days Hell defile the Holy See and its last
heresy, the Germanic monk will spew, he created the Spaniards, to
clean those and to crush them.

Therefore there giving us the world to prey, because everything on earth has divine purpose.
I have long discussions minded in my Sicilian monastery and believed to be the Chosen One himself
well for this spiritual army. Since it was shown to me in a vision, the other, the sage. I was
unworthy of such honor, because of my sin, and stepped back into the world. "Pescara silent
and regarded the ecstatic.

"But I work as long as it is day.

No year is up, I stood behind Ferdinand Cortez, because of him on
the mountains of the demon the golden battlements of Mexico showed
how it to you now, Pescara, Italy shows.

This hand held back the stumbling, and now I extend it against you,
Pescara you'll be a son of Spain, which is the world and in the glory
suspended Catholic Ferdinand protected.

"

Now the captain broke his silence and angry, "Give me those do not, he gave me the Father killed!
"

Moncada sighed heavily.

"You repent?"

The Knights beat his chest crushed and murmured, saying to himself:
"My Sin ... my sin ... unconfessed and non-fed!

"

Since Pescara guessed that this Fromme not regret his murder, but that he accomplished a spiritually
unprepared. "Get away from me!" he commanded.

Moncada stepped up to the threshold, as if waking from a dream. Then he gathered and said, "Excuse
me, your excellency I was absent even a sober word I know!.. Your goal is not. Still, I am not
your enemy. Either way you will take Milan. This first step does not contain any fidelity or infidelity.
I expect Euern second, if your Duke absetzet and punish the outrage. Do you not there, so you betray
your king and Spain! " And he disappeared.

Pescara, retired and enjoying food. Then he received before his blazing fire, the lack of an
autumn evening was not allowed, the Duke of Del Guasto and gave them
his final orders.

The rest of the time he used to sift his secret papers: what is a powerful turns, a world of wickedness.
He destroyed most of it throwing in the kitchen: he did not want anyone spoiling. Even the secret
letter from the Emperor should Disappear, but his ashes mingle with the rest themselves. He had
a glowing Brazier bring in the blue flame, he burned the letter of his Emperor. When he had
finished his candles had already eaten half: it went to midnight. Pescara crossed his arms over
his chest and fell into such a deep sense that he steps an entrant is not heard. Then he said to him: "What
is your goal, Avalos?" He saw Moncada.

The general put his hand in the extinguished coal basin, she closed
and held it against Moncada.

"My goal?" he said and opened his hand: dust and ashes.

Now Drommetenrufe rang through the castle. Drum roll followed. Everything was moving. The general
could be arming of his servants. When he with flickering torch light on the spears and armor,
reflected the paved hall entered the ground floor, He saw his black
animal, which, harnessed precious, with impatient hooves spark proposed
from the floor, next to a litter with two light trotters.

Both he had ordered the choice of reserving the moment.

With a sigh, he mounted the litter, its starting again Pains to conceal it, and disappeared through
the gate, while his despised war- behaved angrily and the groom, who wanted to climb it, threw
off. It was his Lord be tracked single.

Now also the Chancellor was taken captive. Spanish soldiers surrounded him, robbed him of his
chain, his rings, his bag and put him not to be noble mule from the Milanese stables, but its
back on a poor donkey whose tail she moved to her cruel nature of the bound hands. Then it went through
the Tor under a hellish laughter, in which the Chancellor of despair with matched.

Last Chapter

Meanwhile, lived in the castle of fortune from a dwelling to a fear has become Castles of Milan
Francesco Sforza miserable days and worse nights, helpless and clueless calling for his chancellor.
He had received the visit Del Guastos, who came to him to report, his general had received before
the deadline expiring chancellor of Milan, but that he, stupid instead
of the expected concessions in the name of sovereignty as well as
criminal Openings made that determine the general, without delay,
by the way in the spirit of his first threat to march on Milan, and
to proceed against the sovereign as a traitor.

Del Guasto had gloated over the trembling of the Duke and vanished from the city. While the
imperial forces approached in rapid marches, and even then she already were on the walls of Milan
in sight, had the faint-hearted between passing and defense fluctuated, but was then a few brave
Lombard nobles to the path of honor torn and finally transformed himself in a warlike mood, that
he by virtue of his grandfather's blood was not completely incapacitated. He left with an
artfully forged Armor clothe and put a helmet on a beautiful embossed on the weak Head.

It is a fact that he was standing in the large hill, at the moment because its Pescara Troops
led the assault against it. In a trembling voice told the Duke the fire of his exquisite guns.
As the smoke cleared, the field was covered with Spaniards. Between Dead and wounded exceeded
Pescara, a few more besides and still unmatched by the many under the leadership of Del Guastos
stormy pursuing him. He had no armor.

The helmet he was torn from his head, and his dark cloak fluttered in tatters. In flaming red
Dress, with calm and steady steps, he went far ahead, a gleaming two-handed sword swinging. It
was as steps of the strangler's death in person against the hill, and since there at the same moment
the bad news spread, the Borbone had used the south gate and Leyva storms from the north gate,
grabbed the pale fright of the crew. The re- charged pieces were left unresolved, the main
people who threw themselves against the Furchtbetörten, were trampled, and the panicked tore the
Duke away with it.

As he returned to his palace, with wandering steps walked into the throne room, see, there fell from
his eyes goldbrokatene and worked with lions and eagles clothing of the canopy together. In
the general confusion, the duke had upholsterer sneaked into the room and eased the gem to
steal it was, but before to the approaching roar escaped empty-handed.
frightened by the bad omen The Duke threw a chair in despair and covered
his face with both hands, his lot and waiting for the winner.

This was not a long wait on themselves.

A short noise - the loyal palace guard Swiss was struck down or disarmed - and Pescara entered the
room, bareheaded and without a sword, behind him, Charles of Bourbon, helmeted, in full armor,
sword in a bloody fist. He was first of the storm on the ladder, with the same set back in the
moat was without But seriously hurting.

The Marquis bowed to his vanquished who roused himself from his seat. "Your Highness calm down, "said
Pescara." I'm not the enemy, but of sovereignty and again in duty
to take care of your liege lord, the Emperor.

"

Sforza raised her eyes, and he in the face of superior scorn neither read nor punishment, but
more participating insight and gentleness, broke out of the untenable
boy in tears and stammered: "In my heart I am the majesty always been
faithful, she has no more devoted servant improve and vassal, but
I was misguided wretch was misled ... my hell Chancellor ... and armed
resistance, I have not ordered ... I was pushed, encountered ... of
the Valabrega and a few other gentlemen ... when all the apostles
and martyrs, I am not an Italian patriot, but the beleaguered prince
in the most impossible situation!

"

That total contrition of the grandson and great-grandson of two heroes
of the commander seemed embarrassed to touch.

But he did penance run free, but declined, apparently out of deference, which finally becomes
silent his hand, which sought to take this. He was afraid of Destroyed completely kiss she
wants.

During this self-abasement, and the bottom of his heart bitter tasting, sipping Charles Bourbon,
who had remained behind Pescara, slow trains in a full cup, he beckoned
from a get-rich pages and had allowed.

"Highness," said the captain, "I have full power.

If it is convinced of this that you become involved in a false and dangerous game, and when
the firm will can make in you, henceforth seek your salvation where it is, the Emperor, and
the Majesty to yield to never, I venture on my responsibility, your pardon and to take your hand
out grant. Sovereignty must believe me, you drive in any case better with the emperor, as with
the League. "

Now he saw the unexpected mildness of the Moor's son suddenly made another suspicious as the presumed fate
of the suspect behaved like a ruse, and his hand hesitated, trembling.

"Sovereign right to trust," he said forcefully. "The Emperor and I keep my word."

Sforza shook hands, and the commander added, kindly: "I know the difficult situation the sovereignty
and - if I may say it - your unfortunate ill by a youth and weakened
soul.

It requires above all the continuity.

In the path of the emperor walking and persistent, you will be squandered
by any time-wave.

I personally, "concluded he, his didacticism, in mitigation, in an
almost affectionate tone, "was the sovereignty fed than ever, from
you for my role models, your two wonderful ancestors, although I am
both, "joked he, "have stolen some sleep in my youth, such a stimulus
and spike is masculinity and magnanimity.

"

Francesco Sforza comforted that this friendship, but still anxiously asked: "And I remain Duke?
Your word, Pescara?

"Unbreakable.

If I do something about the Emperor can, and if your vermöget it, your soul to fix. "

"And my chancellor nothing happens?"

"I do not think so, Your Highness," promised Pescara.

"He is my minister?"

The general could not get over a smile on the inseparability of this couple. "Your Highness forgets
that you just Girolamo Morone called the most destructive of all Guides added. I recommend sovereignty,
from the Imperial Majesty for this difficult office a others and to ask wiser heads. There
is that in Italy, it need not be a Spaniard. "

"No way, Your Highness! Your Registrar to get out not!" mingled now the Bourbon conversation.
"The Helena is my booty."

Francesco Sforza stared at Bourbon with anxious eyes. "The here?"
he groaned. "He wants my Milan! He dreams of many more. Help me, Pescara
powerful! "

Since blared Bourbon, as he destroys himself, with an
angry union are crystalline Glass on the marble floors that with shrill
discord zerfuhr in tatters. "Highness," he said, "There lies my principality
of Milan!"

While the pieces were flying, with a stepped Moncada Leyva,
from top to bottom with dust and blood stained. "Your excellency,"
began the knight, "I congratulate you on your current beautiful victory,
which, again gained full force, joins so many others. I held me in
the hall proper. But I heard you laughing and cups, and when that
arrived Leyva, has taken the north gate and also earned his trunk
I dared to enter, and I think the right time. Because I mean, here
is held court, and jurisdiction Bourbon has this treacherous Duke,
symbolically his deserved demise proclaimed. But not so stormy, Highness!
I think the captain is court-martialed together, which I take as a
member of the royal house and vote allowed. Of course, a temporary
court in anticipation of the decision from Madrid. "Pescara remained
cold. "So I do," he said. "I appoint judges to my two colleagues,
territorial Bourbon and Leyva. I preside. You, knight, I must exclude,
because you no rank clothed. Here are my credentials. "He took off
his jacket, the imperial authority. This work is accomplished
in several diverse ways. In the first place, where the stream is clear and the current does
not flow too swiftly, the stones on the bottom radiate their heat through the water, and thus
form ice on their surfaces, which may attain considerable thickness. As ice is considerably
lighter than water, the effect is often to lift up the stones of the bed if they be not too
large; when thus detached from the bottom, they are easily floated down stream until the ice
melts away. The ice which forms on the surface of the water likewise imprisons the pebbles
along the banks, and during the subsequent thaw may carry them hundreds of miles toward the
sea. It seems likely, from certain observations made by the writer, that considerable stones
may thus be carried from the Alleghany River to the main Mississippi.

Perhaps the most important effect of ice on river channels is accomplished when in a time of
flood the ice field which covered the stream, perhaps to the depth of some feet, is broken
up into vast floes, which drift downward with the current. When, as on the Ohio, these fields
sometimes have the area of several hundred acres, they often collide with the shores, especially
where the stream makes a sharp bend. Urged by their momentum, these ice floes pack into the
semblance of a dam, which may have a thickness of twenty, thirty, or even fifty feet. Beginning
on the shore, where the collision takes place, the dam may swiftly develop clear across the
stream, so that in a few minutes the way of the waters is completely blocked. The on-coming
ice shoots up upon the accumulation, increases its height, and extends it up stream, so that
in an hour the mass completely bars the current. The waters then heap up until they break their
way over the obstacle, washing its top away, until the whole is light enough to be forced down
the stream, where, by the friction it encounters on the bottom and sides of the channel, it
is broken to pieces. It is easy to see that such moving dams of ice may sweep the bed of a
river as with a great broom.

Sometimes where the gorges do not form a stationary dam large cakes of ice become turned on
edge and pack together so that they roll down the stream like great wheels, grinding the bed
rock as they go.

In high northern countries, as in Siberia, the rivers, even the deepest, often become so far
frozen that their channels are entirely obstructed. Where, as in the case of these Siberian
rivers, the flow is from south to north, it often happens that the spring thaw sets in before
the more northern beds of the main stream are released from their bondage of frost. In this
case the inundations have to find new paths on either side of the obstructed way. The result
is a type of valleys characterized by very irregular and changeable stream beds, the rivers
having no chance to organize themselves into the shapely curves which they ordinarily follow.

The supply which finds its way to a river is composed, as has been already incidentally noted,
in part of the water which courses underground for a greater or less distance before it emerges
to the surface, and in part of that which moves directly over the ground. These two shares
of water have somewhat different histories. On the share of these two depends the stability
of the flow. Where, as in New England and other glaciated countries, the surface of the earth
is covered with a thick layer of sand and gravel, which, except when frozen, readily admits
the water; the rainfall is to a very great extent absorbed by the earth, and only yielded slowly
to the streams. In these cases floods are rare and of no great destructive power. Again, where
also the river basin is covered by a dense mantle of forests, the ground beneath which is coated,
as is the case in primeval woods, with a layer of decomposing vegetation a foot or more in
depth, this spongy mass retains the water even more effectively than the open-textured glacial
deposits above referred to. When the woods, however, are removed from such an area, the rain
may descend to the streams almost as speedily as it finds its way to the gutters from the house
roofs. It thus comes about that all regions, when reduced to tillage, and where the rainfall
is enough to maintain a good agriculture, are, except when they have a coating of glacial waste,
exceedingly liable to destructive inundations.

Unhappily, the risk of river floods is peculiarly great in all the regions of the United States
lying much to the east of the Rocky Mountains, except in the basin of the Great Lakes and in
the district of New England, where the prevalence of glacial sands and gravels affords the
protection which we have noted. Throughout this region the rainfall is heavy, and the larger
part of it is apt to come after the ground has become deeply snow-covered. The result is a
succession of devastating floods which already are very damaging to the works of man, and promise
to become more destructive as time goes on. More than in any other country, we need the protection
which forests can give us against these disastrous outgoings of our streams.

                            LAKES.

In considering the journey of water from the hilltops to the sea, we should take some account
of those pauses which it makes on its way when for a time it falls into the basin of a lake.
These arrests in the downward motion of water, which we term lakes, are exceedingly numerous;
their proper discussion would, indeed, require a considerable volume. We shall here note only
the more important of their features, those which are of interest to the general student.

The first and most noteworthy difference in lakes is that which separates the group of dead
seas from the living basins of fresh water. When a stream attains a place where its waters
have to expand into the lakelike form, the current moves in a slow manner, and the broad surface
exposed to the air permits a large amount of evaporation. If the basin be large in proportion
to the amount of the incurrent water, this evaporation may exceed the supply, and produce a
sea with no outlet, such as we find in the Dead Sea of Judea, in that at Salt Lake, Utah, and
in a host of other less important basins. If the rate of evaporation be yet greater in proportion
to the flow, the lake may altogether dry away, and the river be evaporated before it attains
the basin where it might accumulate. In that case the river is said to sink, but, in place
of sinking into the earth, its waters really rise into the air. Many such sinks occur in the
central portion of the Rocky Mountain district. It is important to note that the process of
evaporation we are describing takes place in the case of all lakes, though only here and there
is the air so dry that the evaporation prevents the basin from overflowing at the lowest point
on its rim, forming a river which goes thence to the sea. Even in the case of the Great Lakes
of North America a considerable part of the water which flows into them does not go to the
St. Lawrence and thence to the sea. As long as the lake finds an outlet to the sea its waters
contain but little more dissolved mineral matter than that we find in the rivers. But because
all water which has been in contact with the earth has some dissolved mineral substances, while
that which goes away by evaporation is pure water, a lake without an outlet gradually becomes
so charged with these materials that it can hold no more in solution, but proceeds to lay them
down in deposits of that compound substance which from its principal ingredient we name salt.
The water of dead seas, because of the additional weight of the substances which it holds,
is extraordinarily buoyant. The swimmer notes a difference in this regard in the waters of
rivers and fresh-water lakes and those of the sea, due to this same cause. But in those of
dead seas, saturated with saline materials, the human body can not sink as it does in the ordinary
conditions of immersion. It is easy to understand how the salt deposits which are mined in
many parts of the world have generally, if not in all cases, been formed in such dead seas.[5]

[Footnote 5: In some relatively rare cases salt deposits are formed in lagoons along the shores
of arid lands, where the sea occasionally breaks over the beach into the basin, affording waters
which are evaporated, leaving their salt behind them.]

It is an interesting fact that almost all the known dead seas have in recent geological times
been living lakes--that is, they poured over their brims. In the Cordilleras from the line
between Canada and the United States to central Mexico there are several of these basins. All
of those which have been studied show by their old shore lines that they were once brimful,
and have only shrunk away in modern times. These conditions point to the conclusion that the
rainfall in different regions varies greatly in the course of the geologic ages. Further confirmation
of this is found in the fact that very great salt deposits exist on the coast of Louisiana
and in northern Europe--regions in which the rainfall is now so great in proportion to the
evaporation that dead seas are impossible. About Delivery
Only you give me the Sforza family?

"

"By all the gods, no!" cried the horrified Chancellor.

"I tell my duke, never! Never! And, "he exclaimed indignantly," how can you think of Pescara,
our pure and holy to stain thing with the Bourbon! "

"Look at these people!" taunted him Pescara. "Is there something cheeky? The most miserable
Prince, he will keep faith, and seems to me to break it to my sublime Emperor! Behold these
disjointed mind! He lured me to the betrayal and wants to stay clear of treason! "

"This is something completely different," lamented the Registrar. "The constable has his country
betrayed, and you save by adding waste from a prince who does not
yours is.

My Duke disclose, my gracious Lord! The Moor will appear to me in dreams !"... he made a pathetic
sigh ... "But, nevertheless, be it! But now, Pescara resist, also you no more! Do you have Mercy
on Italy? Answer me, cruel, "and the tears broke him out of sight.

"Not today, moron!" comforted him Pescara. "We are both tired and need rest. It is the hour of
siesta. "He rang the bell." Ippolito, "he instructed the boy," the lead Lord, who is a great
statesman, in the tower wing. The steward is to him the whole Room number of the top deck open
and use it carefully and make plenty of entertaining.

You find a selected library, Registrar, and draw your wollet air,
is rising in the Garden down, he is shady and extends to the walls.

I invite you not to board because I expect Donna Victoria, is one of my evening. Let the time
you will not last long. Tomorrow we will meet again. "

"How will I pass the day?" cried the Chancellor.

"Everything passes more thing. You approach, I ask the guards do not
verstündet, your for the German. "He looked pale the Registrar." Fear
nothing, "he concluded friendly and dismissed him.

As he turned round
again, approached him, the Duke and Del Guasto that their hiding place
had left, both in the highest excitement of Bourbon with pale feverishly
flushed Cheeks, eyes blazing with Del Guasto. When these great sheets of ice lie
over a land, they are in motion down the slopes on which they rest; they wear the bed rocks
in a vigorous manner, cutting them down in proportion to their hardness. As these rocks generally
vary in the resistance which they oppose to the ice, the result is that when the glacier passes
away the surface no longer exhibits the continued down slope which the rivers develop, but
is warped in a very complicated way. These depressions afford natural basins in which lakes
gather; they may vary in extent from a few square feet to many square miles. When a glacier
occupies a country, the melting ice deposits on the surface of the earth a vast quantity of
rocky débris, which was contained in its mass. This detritus is irregularly accumulated; in
part it is disposed in the form of moraines or rude mounds made at the margin of the glacier,
in part as an irregular sheet, now thick, now thin, which covers the whole of the field over
which the ice lay. The result of this action is the formation of innumerable pools, which continue
to exist until the streams have cut channels through which their waters may drain away, or
the basins have become filled with detritus imported from the surrounding country or by peat
accumulations which the plants form in such places.

Doubtless more than nine tenths of all the lake basins, especially those of small size, which
exist in the world are due to irregularities of the land surface which are brought about by
glacial action. Although the greater part of these small basins have been obliterated since
the ice left this country, the number still remaining of sufficient size to be marked on a
good map is inconceivably great. In North America alone there are probably over a hundred and
fifty thousand of these glacial lakes, although by far the greater part of those which existed
when the glacial sheet disappeared have been obliterated.

Yet another interesting group of fresh-water lakes, or rather we should call them lakelets
from their small size, owes its origin to the curious underground excavations or caverns which
are formed in limestone countries. The water enters these caverns through what are termed "sink
holes"--basins in the surface which slope gently toward a central opening through which the
water flows into the depths below. The cups of the sink holes rarely exceed half a mile in
diameter, and are usually much smaller. Their basins have been excavated by the solvent and
cutting actions of the rain water which gathers in them to be discharged into the cavern below.
It often happens that after a sink hole is formed some slight accident closes the downward-leading
shaft, so that the basin holds water; thus in parts of the United States there are thousands
of these nearly circular pools, which in certain districts, as in southern Kentucky, serve
to vary the landscape in much the same manner as the glacial lakes of more northern countries.

Some of the most beautiful lakes in the world, though none more than a few miles in diameter,
occupy the craters of extinct volcanoes. When for a time, or permanently, a volcano ceases
to do its appointed work of pouring forth steam and molten rock from the depths of the earth,
the pit in the centre of the cone gathers the rain water, forming a deep circular lake, which
is walled round by the precipitous faces of the crater. If the volcano reawakens, the water
which blocks its passage may be blown out in a moment, the discharge spreading in some cases
to a great distance from the cone, to be accumulated again when the vent ceases to be open.
The most beautiful of these volcanic lakes are to be found in the region to the north and south
of Rome. The original seat of the Latin state was on the shores of one of these crater pools,
south of the Eternal City. Lago Bolsena, which lies to the northward, and is one of the largest
known basins of this nature, having a diameter of about eight miles, is a crater lake. The
volcanic cone to which it belongs, though low, is of great size, showing that in its time of
activity, which did not endure very long, this crater was the seat of mighty ejections. The
noblest specimen of this group of basins is found in Crater Lake, Oregon, now contained in
one of the national parks of the United States.

Inclosed bodies of water are formed in other ways than those described; the list above given
includes all the important classes of action which produce these interesting features. We should
now note the fact that, unlike the seas, the lakes are to be regarded as temporary features
in the physiography of the land. One and all, they endure for but brief geologic time, for
the reason that the streams work to destroy them by filling them with sediment and by carving
out channels through which their waters drain away. The nature of this action can well be conceived
by considering what will take place in the course of time in the Great Lakes of North America.
As Niagara Falls cut back at the average rate of several feet a year, it will be but a brief
geologic period before they begin to lower the waters of Lake Erie. It is very probable, indeed,
that in twenty thousand years the waters of that basin will be to a great extent drained away.
When this occurs, another fall or rapid will be produced in the channel which leads from Lake
Huron to Lake Erie. This in turn will go through its process of retreat until the former expanse
of waters disappears. The action will then be continued at the outlets of Lakes Michigan and
Superior, and in time, but for the interposition of some actions which recreate these basins,
their floors will be converted into dry land.

It is interesting to note that lakes owe in a manner the preservation of their basins to an
action which they bring about on the waters that flow into them. These rivers or torrents commonly
convey great quantities of sediment, which serve to rasp their beds and thus to lower their
channels. In all but the smaller lakelets these turbid waters lay down all their sediment before
they attain the outlet of the basin. Thus they flow away over the rim rock in a perfectly pure
state--a state in which, as we have noted before, water has no capacity for abrading firm rock.
Thus where the Niagara River passes from Lake Erie its clean water hardly affects the stone
over which it flows. It only begins to do cutting work where it plunges down the precipice
of the Falls and sets in motion the fragments which are constantly falling from that rocky
face. These Falls could not have begun as they did on the margin of Lake Ontario except for
the fact that when the Niagara River began to flow, as in relatively modern times, it found
an old precipice on the margin of Lake Ontario, formed by the waves of the lake, down which
the waters fell, and where they obtained cutting tools with which to undermine the steep which
forms the Falls.

Many great lakes, particularly those which we have just been considering, have repeatedly changed
their outlets, according as the surface of the land on which they lie has swayed up and down
in various directions, or as glacial sheets have barred or unbarred the original outlets of
the basins. Thus in the Laurentian Lakes above Ontario the geologist finds evidence that the
drainage lines have again and again been changed. For a time during the Glacial period, when
Lake Ontario and the valley of the St. Lawrence was possessed by the ice, the discharge was
southward into the upper Mississippi or the Ohio. At a later stage channels were formed leading
from Georgian Bay to the eastern part of Ontario. Yet later, when the last-named lake was bared,
an ice dam appears to have remained in the St. Lawrence, which held back the waters to such
a height that they discharged through the valley of the Mohawk into the Hudson. Furthermore,
at some time before the Glacial period, we do not know just when, there appears to have been
an old Niagara River, now filled with drift, which ran from Lake Erie to Ontario, a different
channel from that occupied by the present stream.

The effects of lakes on the river systems with which they are connected is in many ways most
important. Where they are of considerable extent, or where even small they are very numerous,
they serve to retain the flood waters, delivering them slowly to the excurrent streams. In
rising one foot a lake may store away more water than the river by its consequent rise at the
point of outflow will carry away in many months, and this for the simple reason that the lake
may be many hundred or even thousand times as wide as the stream. Moreover, as before noted,
the sediment gathered by the stream above the level of the lake is deposited in its basin,
and does not affect the lower reaches of the river. The result is that great rivers, such as
drain from the Laurentian Lakes, flow clear water, are exempt from floods, are essentially
without alluvial plains or terraces, and form no delta deposits. In all these features the
St. Lawrence River affords a wonderful contrast to the Mississippi. Moreover, owing to the
clear waters, though it has flowed for a long time, it has never been able to cut away the
slight obstructions which form its rapids, barriers which probably would have been removed
if its waters had been charged with sediment.

                         CHAPTER VI.

                          GLACIERS.

We have already noted the fact that the water in the clouds is very commonly in the frozen
state; a large part of that fluid which is evaporated from the sea attains the solid form before
it returns to the earth. Nevertheless, in descending, at least nine tenths of the precipitation
returns to the fluid state, and does the kind of work which we have noted in our account of
water. Where, however, the water arrives on the earth in the frozen condition, it enters on
a rôle totally different from that followed by the fluid material.

Beginning its descent to the earth in a snowflake, the little mass falls slowly, so that when
it comes against the earth the blow which it strikes is so slight that it does no effective
work. In the state of snow, even in the separate flakes, the frozen water contains a relatively
large amount of air. It is this air indeed, which, by dividing the ice into many flakes that
reflect the light, gives it the white colour. This important point can be demonstrated by breaking
transparent ice into small bits, when we perceive that it has the hue of snow. Much the same
effect is given where glass is powdered, and for the same reason.

As the snowflakes accumulate layer on layer they imbed air between them, so that when the material
falls in a feathery shape--say to the depth of a foot--more than nine tenths of the mass is
taken up by the air-containing spaces. As these cells are very small, the circulation in them
is slight, and so the layer becomes an admirable non-conductor, having this quality for the
same reason that feathers have it--i.e., because the cells are small enough to prevent the
circulation of the air, so that the heat which passes has to go by conduction, and all gases
are very poor conductors. The result is that a snow coating is in effect an admirable blanket.
When the sun shines upon it, much of the heat is reflected, and as the temperature does not
penetrate it to any depth, only the superficial part is melted. This molten water takes up
in the process of melting a great deal of heat, so that when it trickles down into the mass
it readily refreezes. On the other hand, the heat going out from the earth, the store accumulated
in its superficial parts in the last warm season, together with the small share which flows
out from the earth's interior, is held in by this blanket, which it melts but slowly. Thus
it comes about that in regions of long-enduring snowfall the ground, though frozen to the depth
of a foot or more at the time when the accumulation took place, may be thawed out and so far
warmed that the vegetation begins to grow before the protecting envelope of snow has melted
away. Certain of the early flowers of high latitudes, indeed, begin to blossom beneath the
mantle of finely divided ice.

In those parts of the earth which for the most part receive only a temporary coating of snow
the effect of this covering is inconsiderable. The snow water is yielded to the earth, from
which it has helped to withdraw the frost, so that in the springtime, the growing season of
plants, the ground contains an ample store of moisture for their development. Where the snowfall
accumulates to a great thickness, especially where it lodges in forests, the influence of the
icy covering is somewhat to protract the winter and thus to abbreviate the growing season.

Where snow rests upon a steep slope, and gathers to the depth of several feet, it begins to
creep slowly down the declivity in a manner which we may often note on house roofs. This motion
is favoured by the gradual though incomplete melting of the flakes as the heat penetrates the
mass. Making a section through a mass of snow which has accumulated in many successive falls,
we note that the top may still have the flaky character, but that as we go down the flakes
are replaced by adherent shotlike bodies, which have arisen from the partial melting and gathering
to their centres of the original expanded crystalline bits. In this process of change the mass
can move particle by particle in the direction in which gravity impels it. The energy of its
motion, however, is slight, yet it can urge loose stones and forest waste down hill. Sometimes,
as in the cemetery at Augusta, Me., where stone monuments or other structures, such as iron
railings, are entangled in the moving mass, it may break them off and convey them a little
distance down the slope.

So long as the summer sun melts the winter's snow, even if the ground be bare but for a day,
the rôle of action accomplished by the snowfall is of little geological consequence. When it
happens that a portion of the deposit holds through the summer, the region enters on the glacial
state, and its conditions undergo a great revolution, the consequences of which are so momentous
that we shall have to trace them in some detail. Fortunately, the considerations which are
necessary are not recondite, and all the facts are of an extremely picturesque nature.

Taking such a region as New England, where all the earth is life-bearing in the summer season,
and where the glacial period of the winter continues but for a short time, we find that here
and there on the high mountains the snow endures throughout most of the summer, but that all
parts of the surface have a season when life springs into activity. On the top of Mount Washington,
in the White Mountains of New Hampshire, in a cleft known as Tuckerman's Ravine, where the
deposit accumulates to a great depth, the snow-ice remains until midsummer. It is, indeed,
evident that a very slight change in the climatal conditions of this locality would establish
a permanent accumulation of frozen water upon the summit of the mountain. If the crest were
lifted a thousand feet higher, without any general change in the heat or rainfall of the district,
this effect would be produced. If with the same amount of rainfall as now comes to the earth
in that region more of it fell as snow, a like condition would be established. Furthermore,
with an increase of rainfall to something like double that which now descends the snow bore
the same proportion to the precipitation which it does at present, we should almost certainly
have the peak above the permanent snow line, that level below which all the winter's fall melts
away. These propositions are stated with some care, for the reason that the student should
perceive how delicate may be--indeed, commonly is--the balance of forces which make the difference
between a seasonal and a perennial snow covering.

As soon as the snow outlasts the summer, the region which it occupies is sterilized to life.
From the time the snow begins to hold over the warm period until it finally disappears, that
field has to be reckoned out of the habitable earth, not only to man, but to the lowliest organisms.[6]

[Footnote 6: In certain fields of permanent snow, particularly near their boundaries, some
very lowly forms of vegetable life may develop on a frozen surface, drawing their sustenance
from the air, and supplied with water by the melting which takes place during the summertime.
These forms include the rare phenomenon termed red snow.]

If the snow in a glaciated region lay where it fell, the result would be a constant elevation
of the deposit year by year in proportion to the annual excess of deposition over the melting
or evaporation of the material. But no sooner does the deposit attain any considerable thickness
than it begins to move in the directions of least resistance, in accordance with laws which
the students of glaciers are just beginning to discern. In small part this motion is accomplished
by avalanches or snow slides, phenomena which are in a way important, and therefore merit description.
Immediately after a heavy snowfall, in regions where the slopes are steep, it often happens
that the deposit which at first clung to the surface on which it lay becomes so heavy that
it tends to slide down the slope; a trifling action, the slipping, indeed, of a single flake,
may begin the movement, which at first is gradual and only involves a little of the snow. Gathering
velocity, and with the materials heaped together from the junction of that already in motion
with that about to be moved, the avalanche in sliding a few hundred feet down the slope may
become a deep stream of snow-ice, moving with great celerity. At this stage it begins to break
off masses of ice from the glaciers over which it may flow, or even to move large stones. Armed
with these, it rends the underlying earth. After it has flowed a mile it may have taken up
so much earth and material that it appears like a river of mud. Owing to the fact that the
energy which bears it downward is through friction converted into heat, a partial melting of
the mass may take place, which converts it into what we call slush, or a mixture of snow and
water. Finally, the torrent is precipitated into the bottom of a valley, where in time the
frozen water melts away, leaving only the stony matter which it bore as a monument to show
the termination of its flow.

It was the good fortune of the writer to see in the Swiss Oberland one very great avalanche,
which came from the high country through a descent of several thousand feet to the surface
of the Upper Grindelwald Glacier. The first sign of the action was a vague tremor of the air,
like that of a great organ pipe when it begins to vibrate, but before the pulsations come swiftly
enough to make an audible note. It was impossible to tell when this tremor came, but the wary
guide, noting it before his charge could perceive anything unusual, made haste for the middle
of the glacier. They did it, and the doctor, who might well include eighty but
had retained his keen sense of hearing, was satisfied with the chancellor in a whispering
conversation one. "You have to think won?" he asked.

"I do not know," said the Chancellor. "Est in votis."

"Disappoint you, Girolamo, I tell you, even if he wanted to, he can not."

"He could not, why? That sounds mysterious. What god or goddess forbid he? Crucify me! Speech! "

"May I speak, I would have weggewinkt from the threshold of my house and from Novara, but my lips are
banned.

But I must up, you poor, not even in your doom let fall. You lose your words here and maybe your
life. He can not, protestations I tell you!

It is not for him. It is not his lot. Flee! It's all in vain. "

"Flee? Ago Pescara? I do not think about and keep it wrapped tightly! All demons why is not his lot? "

As
the doctor whispered that he could hardly understand Morone, "Is not all mortal change in time
and space? Both deny this but. "

He put his finger to his lips, commanding silence them, and then immediately to the other times,
to make the Registrar approaching steps carefully. "Still, Behold!" he whispered. Tentative
steps to Victoria Colonna came into the large green room, the husband of his favorite place
searching. Still wearing her dress the dust of the road, they might
be hardly slipped from his horse.

Then she saw him sleep, she stopped and got in his sight. Then melted she suddenly in tears, from an
excess of joy, or it frightened her St. Seriousness of the beloved, now dug deep wounds and
pains of trains. A few moments but, and she came up to him. With infinite love, she put her
hand under the strict head, and gently lifting it, it woke her with fervent kisses. Pescara opened
his eyes. Gently He pressed his wife to the right breast and gave her a kiss on the forehead.

As the commander, rose Morone had slipped away in a rare emotion of
chastity, Pescara and only saw the doctor himself.

The left looping around Victoria, he took the Numa's right hand and said to his wife: "This is
my doctor," and these, in their fiery nature bent the knee and covered his limp hand with kisses.
"She has the wound of my Heroes closed, "she rejoiced with gratitude.

Then she straightened up and asked in deep agitation, "Numa Dati knife?"

The old man bowed.

And Victoria, carried away by her warm heart, turned to the husband, mouth to mouth, and complained,
"Before we look forward, you must give me this right and create our
nephew has it! the granddaughter tempted and refuses, the evil man,
to atone for his guilt by marriage!

"

"Is it so, Numa? said the captain, and said yes because the old man
sadly, "Why did you the secret?

"

"At first, glory, it was a mere conjecture, as they secretly left my house and Novara. And as I was
you, who with his own great destiny, with the small of a girl ? Deal Only today I received
assurance by a letter from Rome, by the abbess, refuge in their convent
to the poor child had.

"

Now Victoria urged pleadingly to the left side of their hero, who under the pressure of Body of woman
seemed to feel a physical pain. To hide it and get over the that he forward a few steps.

The dreie stood in front of the playing lights of the fountain. "Most beautiful woman, I was warmly
requested to see you again, "said the general," and there you are, my soul! "He looked her
shining in his eyes. "But your noble eyelids are still quite dusted from the trip. Your cloth,
"and she gave it to him, it networked, and closed his eyes, while
her forehead and Eyelid and cheek washed and bathed.

"I remember quite well your granddaughter, Numa, although I have hardly
seen. Deep Blue Eyes and auburn hair, as this because, you know, and
Julie is her name? What do their thing concerns, which I think difficult
and tragic. Not that I would line up, the bad, you know, Victoria
- also one I can not call it anything else - to force into marriage
with her, he would , Add, no doubt, for he is my creation and I have
power over him. But I wonder me if it was good to tie the scorned
a heartless and cruel, of course, the gain through its audacity and
talent in the world the highest stages. And Themselves? If they demand
it? Do you think Victoria? Did not request it, which you thrown in
Rome at your feet, as I suspect, as you know them? "

"So she did,"
said Victoria with an imploring voice.

"She endured your pure vision?
And seriously, do you want to give the man that she despised? If it
were my child, I vergrübe the monastery. In a glacial district this snow mass above the
melting line is called the névé.

Remembering that the excess of snow beyond the melting in a névé district amounts, it may be,
to some feet of material each year, we easily come to the conclusion that the mass works down
the slope in the manner which it does even where the coating is impermanent. This supposition
is easily confirmed: by observing the field we find that the sheet is everywhere drawing away
from the cliffs, leaving a deep fissure between the névé and the precipices. This crevice is
called by the German-Swiss guides the Bergschrund. Passage over it is often one of the most
difficult feats to accomplish which the Alpine explorer has to undertake. In fact, the very
appearance of the surface, which is that of a river with continuous down slopes, is sufficient
evidence that the mass is slowly flowing toward the valleys. Following it down, we almost always
come to a place where it passes from the upper valleys to the deeper gorges which pierce the
skirts of the mountain. In going over this projection the mass of snow-ice breaks to pieces,
forming a crowd of blocks which march down the slope with much more speed than they journeyed
when united in the higher-lying fields. In this condition and in this part of the movement
the snow-ice forms what are called the seracs, or curds, as the word means in the French-Swiss
dialect. Slipping and tumbling down the steep slope on which the seracs develop, the ice becomes
broken into bits, often of small size. These fragments are quickly reknit into the body of
ice, which we shall hereafter term the glacier, and in this process the expulsion of the air
goes on more rapidly than before, and the mass assumes a more transparent icelike quality.

The action of the ice in the pressures and strains to which it is subjected in joining the
main glacier and in the further part of its course demand for their understanding a revision
of those notions as to rigidity and plasticity which we derive from our common experience with
objects. It is hard to believe that ice can be moulded by pressure into any shape without fracturing,
provided the motion is slowly effected, while at the same time it is as brittle as ice to a
sudden blow. We see, however, a similar instance of contrasted properties in the confection
known as molasses candy, a stick of which may be indefinitely bent if the flexure is slowly
made, but will fly to pieces like glass if sharply struck. Ice differs from the sugary substance
in many ways; especially we should note that while it may be squeezed into any form, it can
not be drawn out, but fractures on the application of a very slight tension. The conditions
of its movement we will inquire into further on, when we have seen more of its action.

Entering on the lower part of its course, that where it flows into the region below the snow
line, the ice stream is now confined between the walls of the valley, a channel which in most
cases has been shaped before the ice time, by a mountain torrent, or perhaps by a slower flowing
river. In this part of its course the likeness of a glacial stream to one of fluid water is
manifest. We see that it twists with the turn of the gorge, widens where the confining walls
are far apart, and narrows where the space is constricted. Although the surface is here and
there broken by fractures, it is evident that the movement of the frozen current, though slow,
is tolerably free. By placing stakes in a row across the axis of a glacier, and observing their
movement from day to day, or even from hour to hour if a good theodolite is used for the purpose,
we note that the movement of the stream is fastest in the middle parts, as in the case of a
river, and that it slows toward either shore, though it often happens, as in a stream of molten
water, that the speediest part of the current is near one side. Further observations have indicated
that the movement is most rapid on the surface and least at the bottom, in which the stream
is also riverlike. It is evident, in a word, that though the ice is not fluid in strict sense,
the bits of which it is made up move in substantially the manner of fluids--that is, they freely
slip over each other. We will now turn our attention to some important features of a detailed
sort which glaciers exhibit.

If we visit a glacier during the part of the year when the winter snows are upon it, it may
appear to have a very uninterrupted surface. But as the summer heat advances, the mask of the
winter coating goes away, and we may then see the structure of the ice. First of all we note
in all valley glaciers such as we are observing that the stream is overlaid by a quantity of
rocky waste, the greater part of which has come down with the avalanches in the manner before
described, though a small part may have been worn from the bed over which the ice flows. In
many glaciers, particularly as we approach their termination, this sheet of earth and rock
materials often covers the ice so completely that the novice in such regions finds it difficult
to believe that the ice is under his feet. If the explorer is minded to take the rough scramble,
he can often walk for miles on these masses of stone without seeing, much less setting foot
on any frozen water. In some of the Alaskan glaciers this coating may bear a forest growth.
In general, this material, which is called moraine, is distributed in bands parallel to the
sides of the glaciers, and the strips may amount to a half dozen or more. Those on the sides
of the ice have evidently been derived from the precipices which they have passed. Those in
the middle have arisen from the union of the moraines formed in two or more tributary valleys.

Where the avalanches fall most plentifully, the stones lie buried with the snow, and only melt
out when the stream attains the region where the annual waste of its surface exceeds the snowfall.
In this section we can see how the progressive melting gradually brings the rocky débris into
plain view. Here and there we will find a boulder perched on a pedestal of ice, which indicates
a recent down-wearing of the field. A frequent sound in these regions arises from the tumble
of the stones from their pedestals or the slipping of the masses from the sharp ridge which
is formed by the protection given to the ice through the thick coating of detritus on its surface.
These movements of the moraines often distribute their waste over the glacier, so that in its
lower part we can no longer trace the contributions from the several valleys, the whole area
being covered by the débris. At the end of the ice stream, where its forward motion is finally
overcome by the warmth which it encounters, it leaves in a rude heap, extending often like
a wall across the valley, all the coarse fragments which it conveys. This accumulation, composed
of all the lateral moraines which have gathered on the ice by the fall of avalanches, is called
the terminal moraine. As the ice stream itself shrinks, a portion of the detritus next the
boundary wall is apt to be left clinging against those slopes. It is from the presence of these
heaps in valleys now abandoned by glaciers that we obtain some information as to the former
greater extent of glacial action.

The next most noticeable feature is the crevasse. These fractures often exist in very great
numbers, and constitute a formidable barrier in the explorer's way. The greater part of these
ruptures below the serac zone run from the sides of the stream toward the centre without attaining
that region. These are commonly pointed up stream; their formation is due to the fact that,
owing to the swifter motion in the central parts of the stream, the ice in that section draws
away from the material which is moving more slowly next the shore. As before noted, these ice
fractures when drawn out naturally form fissures at right angles to the direction of the strain.
In the middle portions of the ice other fissures form, though more rarely, which appear to
depend on local strains brought about through the irregularity of the surface over which the
ice is flowing.

If the observer is fortunate, he may in his journey over the glacier have a chance to see and
hear what goes on when crevasses are formed. First he will hear a deep, booming sound beneath
his feet, which merges into a more splintering note as the crevice, which begins at the bottom
or in the distance, comes upward or toward him. When the sound is over, he may not be able
to see a trace of the fracture, which at first is very narrow. But if the break intersect any
of the numerous shallow pools which in a warm summer's day are apt to cover a large part of
the surface, he may note a line of bubbles rushing up through the water, marking the escape
of the air from the glacier, some remnant of that which is imprisoned in the original snow.
Even where this indication is wanting, he can sometimes trace the crevice by the hissing sound
of the air streams where they issue from the ice. If he will take time to note what goes on,
he can usually in an hour or two behold the first invisible crack widen until it may be half
an inch across. He may see how the surface water hastens down the opening, a little river system
being developed on the surface of the ice as the streams make their way to one or more points
of descent. In doing this work they excavate a shaft which often becomes many feet in diameter,
down which their waters thunder to the base of the glacier. This well-like opening is called
a moulin, or mill, a name which, as we shall see, is well deserved from the work which falling
waters accomplish. Although the institution of the moulin shaft depends upon the formation
of a crevice, it often happens that as the ice moves farther on its journey its walls are again
thrust together, soldered in the manner peculiar to ice, so that no trace of the rupture remains
except the shaft which it permitted to form. Like everything else in the glacier, the moulin
slowly moves down the slope, and remains open as long as it is the seat of descending waters
produced by the summer melting. When it ceases to be kept open from the summer, its walls are
squeezed together in the fashion that the crevices are closed. 

Karl Bourbon waved them off and laid Pescara on the gold brocade. The palace was completely silent
become, and even the guards at the gates fallen silent, in the opinion of the commander think
at this hour siesta, as was his custom.
Smaller bits are washed into the moulin, by the streams arising from the melting ice, which
is brought about by the warm sun of the summer, and particularly by the warm rains of that
season. On those glaciers where, owing to the irregularity of the bottom over which the ice
flows, these fractures are very numerous, it may happen that all the detritus brought upon
the surface of the glacier by avalanches finds its way to the floor of the ice.

