But even earlier, previous to the Congress of Northern Soviets, there occurred an event which
was destined to play a most important role in the subsequent political struggle. Early in October
there came to a meeting of the Petrograd Executive Committee, the Soviet's representative in
the staff of the Petrograd Military District and announced that Headquarters demanded that
two-thirds of the Petrograd garrison should be sent to the front. For what purpose? To defend
Petrograd. They were not to be sent to the front at once, but still it was necessary to make
ready immediately. The Staff recommended that the Petrograd Soviet approve this plan. We were
on our guard. At the end of August, also, five revolutionary regiments, complete or in parts,
had been taken out of Petrograd. This had been done at the request of the then Supreme Commander
Korniloff, who at that very time was preparing to hurl a Caucasian division against Petrograd,
with the intention of once for all settling with the revolutionary capital. Thus we had already
the experience of purely political transfer of regiments under the pretext of military operations.
Anticipating events. I shall say, that from documents brought to light after the October Revolution
it became clear beyond any doubt that the proposed removal of the Petrograd garrison actually
had nothing to do with military purposes, but was forced upon Commander-in-Chief Dukhonin,
against his will, by none else but Kerensky, who was striving to clear the capital of the most
revolutionary soldiers, i.e., those most hostile to him. But at that time, early in October,
our suspicions evoked at first a storm of patriotic indignation. The Staff people were pressing
us, Kerensky was impatient, for the ground under his feet had grown too hot. We, on the other
hand, delayed answering. Danger undoubtedly threatened Petrograd and the question of defending
the capital loomed before us in all its terrible significance. But after the Korniloff experience,
after Rodzyanko's words concerning the desirability of the German occupation, whence should
we take the assurance that Petrograd would not be maliciously given up to the Germans in punishment
for its seditious spirit? The Executive Committee refused to affix its seal blindly to the
order to transfer two-thirds of the garrison. It was necessary to verify, we said, whether
there really were military considerations back of this order, and therefore it was necessary
to create an organization for this verification. Thus was born the idea of creating--by the
side of the Soldiers' section of the Soviet, i. e., the garrison's political representation--a
purely military organization, in the form of a Military Revolutionary Committee, which subsequently
acquired enormous power and became the real tool of the October Revolution. Undoubtedly, even
in those hours, when putting forth the idea of creating an organization in whose hands would
be concentrated the threads for guiding the Petrograd garrison on the purely military side,
we clearly realized that this very organization might become an irreplaceable revolutionary
tool. At that time we were already openly heading for the uprising, and were preparing for
it in an organized way.

As indicated above, the All-Russian Congress of Soviets was ret for October 25th. There could
be no longer any doubt that the Congress would declare itself in favor of power being handed
over to the Soviets. But such a resolution must forthwith be put into actuality, else it would
turn into a worthless, Platonic demonstration. The logic of events, therefore, required us
to set the uprising for October 25th. Exactly so the entire bourgeois press interpreted it.
But in the first place, the fate of the Congress depended upon the Petrograd garrison: would
it allow Kerensky to surround the Congress of Soviets and disperse it with the assistance of
several hundred or thousand military cadets, ensigns and thugs? Did not the very attempt to
remove the garrison mean that the Government was preparing to disperse the Congress of Soviets?
And strange it would be if it were not preparing, since we were, before the entire land, openly
mobilizing the Soviet forces in order to deal the coalition forces a death blow.

Thus the conflict at Petrograd was developing on the basis of the question of the garrison's
fate. First and foremost this question touched all the soldiers to the quick. But the working-men,
too, felt the liveliest interest in the conflict, fearing as they did that upon the garrison's
removal they would be smothered by the cadets and cossacks. Thus the conflict was assuming
a character of the very keenest nature and developing on a soil extremely unfavorable for Kerensky's
government.

Parallel with this was going on the above-described struggle for convoking the All-Russian
Congress of Soviets--we, openly declaring, in the name of the Petrograd Soviet and the Northern
Region Congress, that the Second Congress of Soviets must set Kerensky's government aside and
become the true master of the Russian land. As a matter of fact the uprising was already on.
It was developing quite openly before the eyes of the whole country.

During October the question of the uprising played an important role in our party's inner life.
Lenin, who was in hiding in Finland, insisted, in numerous letters, upon more resolute tactics.
The lower strata were in ferment, and dissatisfaction was accumulating because the Bolshevik
party, which had proved to be in the majority in the Petrograd Soviet, was drawing no practical
conclusions from its own mottos. On October 10th a conspiratory meeting of the Central Committee
of our party took place, with Lenin present. The question of the uprising was on the order
of the day. By a majority of all against two votes it was decided that the only means of saving
the Revolution and the country from final dissolution lay in armed insurrection which must
transfer power into the hands of the Soviets.

THE DEMOCRATIC SOVIET AND "PRE-PARLIAMENT"

The Democratic Soviet which had detached itself from the Democratic Conference had absorbed
all the helplessness of the latter. The old Soviet parties, the Social-Revolutionists and the
Mensheviks, had created an artificial majority in it for themselves, only the more strikingly
to reveal their political prostration. Behind the Soviet curtains, Tseretelli was carrying
on involved parleys with Kerensky and the representatives of the "professional elements" as
they began to say in the Soviet,--in order to avoid the "insulting" term bourgeoisie.

Tseretelli's report on the course and issue of the negotiations was a sort of funeral oration
over a whole period of the Revolution. It turned out that neither Kerensky nor the professional
elements had consented to responsibility toward the new semi-representative institution. On
the other hand, outside the limits of the Cadet Party, they had not succeeded in finding so-called
"efficient" social leaders. The organizers of the venture had to capitulate on both points.
The capitulation was all the more eloquent, because the Democratic Conference had been called
exactly for the purpose of doing away with the irresponsible regime, while the Conference,
by a formal vote, rejected a coalition with the Cadets. At several meetings of the Democratic
Soviet which took place prior to the Revolution, there prevailed an atmosphere of tenseness
and utter incapacity for action. The Soviet did not reflect the Revolution's march forward
but the dissolution of the parties that had lagged behind the Revolution.

Even previous to the Democratic Conference, in our party faction, I had raised the question
of demonstratively withdrawing from the Conference and boycotting the Democratic Soviet. It
was necessary to show the masses by action that the fusionists had led the Revolution into
a blind alley. The fight for building up the Soviet power could be carried on only in a revolutionary
way. The power must be snatched from the hands of those who had proven incapable of doing any
good and were furthermore even losing their capacity for active evil. Their method of working
through an artificially picked Pre-Parliament and a conjectural Constituent Assembly, had to
be opposed by our political method of mobilizing the forces around the Soviets, through the
All-Russian Congress of Soviets and through insurrection. This could be done only by means
of an open break, before the eyes of the entire people, with the body created by Tseretelli
and his adherents, and by focusing on the Soviet institutions, the entire attention and all
the forces of the working class. This is why I proposed the demonstrative withdrawal from the
Conference and a revolutionary agitation, in shops and regiments, against the attempt to play
false with the will of the Revolution and once again turn its progress into the channel of
cooperation with the bourgeoisie. Lenin, whose letter we received a few days later, expressed
himself to the same effect. But in the party's upper circles hesitation was still apparent
on this question. The July days had left a deep impression in the party's consciousness. The
mass of workingmen and soldiers had recovered from the July debacle much more rapidly than
had many of the leading comrades who feared the nipping of the Revolution in the bud by a new
premature onslaught of the masses. In our group of the Democratic Conference, I mustered 50
votes in favor of my proposal against 70 who declared for participating in the Democratic Council.
However, the experience of this participation soon strengthened the party's left wing. It was
growing too manifest that combinations bordering on trickery, combinations that aimed at securing
further leadership in the Revolution for the professional elements, with the assistance of
the fusionists, who had lost ground among the lower levels of the people, offered no escape
from the impasse into which the laxness of bourgeois democracy had driven the revolution. By
the time the Democratic Soviet, its ranks filled up with professional elements, became a Pre-Parliament,
readiness to break with this institution had matured in our party.

THE S. R.'S AND MENSHEVIKS

We were confronted with the question whether the S. R.'s would follow us in this path. This
group was in the process of formation, but this process, according to the standards of our
party, went on too slowly and irresolutely. At the outset of the Revolution, the S. R.'s proved
the predominating party in the whole field of political life. Peasants, soldiers, even workingmen
voted en masse for the S. R.'s. The party itself had not expected anything of the kind, and
more than once it looked as if it were in danger of being swamped in the waves of its own success.
Excluding the purely capitalistic and landholder groups and the professional elements among
the intellectuals, one and all voted for the revolutionary populists' party. This was natural
in the initial stage of the Revolution, when class lines had not had time to reveal themselves,
when the aspirations of the so-called united revolutionary front found expression in the diffuse
program of a party that was ready to welcome equally the workingman who feared to break away
from the peasant; the peasant who was seeking land and liberty; the intellectual attempting
to guide both of them; the chinovnik (officeholder) endeavoring to adjust himself to the new
regime.

When Kerensky, who had been counted a laborite in the period of Czarism, joined the S. R.'s
Party after the victory of the Revolution, that party's popularity began to grow in proportion
as Kerensky mounted the rungs of power. Out of respect, not always of a platonic nature, for
the War Minister, many colonels and generals hastened to enrol in the party of the erstwhile
terrorists. Old S. R.'s, with revolutionary traditions, regarded with some uneasiness the ever
increasing number of "March S. R.'s" that is, such party members as had discovered within themselves
a revolutionary populist soul only in March, after the Revolution had overthrown the old regime
and placed the revolutionary populists in authority. Thus, within the limits of its formlessness,
this party contained not only the inner contradictions of the developing Revolution, but also
the prejudices inherent in the backwardness of the peasant masses, and the sentimentalism,
instability and career-chasing of the intellectual strata. It was perfectly clear that in that
form the party could not last long. With regard to ideas, it proved impotent from the very start.

Politically, the guiding role belonged to the Mensheviks who had gone through the school of
Marxism and derived from it certain procedures and habits, which aided them in finding their
bearings in the political situation to the extent of scientifically falsifying the meaning
of the current class struggle and securing the hegemony of the liberal bourgeoisie in the highest
degree possible under the given circumstances. This is why the Mensheviks, direct pleaders
for the bourgeoisie's right to power, exhausted themselves so rapidly and, by the time of the
October Revolution, were almost completely played out.

The S. R.'s, too, were losing influence more and more--first among the workingmen, then in
the army, and finally in the villages. But toward the time of the October upheaval, they remained
still a very powerful party, numerically. However, class contradictions were undermining them
from within. In opposition to the right wing which, in its most chauvinistic elements, such
as Avksentyef, Breshko-Breshkovskaya, Savinkoff, etc., had finally gone over into the counter-revolutionary
camp, a left wing was forming, which strove to preserve its connection with the toiling masses.
If we merely recall the fact that the S. R., Avksentyef, as Minister of the Interior, arrested
the Peasant Land Committees, composed of S. R.'s, for their arbitrary solution of the agrarian
question, the amplitude of "differences" within this party will become sufficiently clear to us.

In its center stood the party's traditional leader, Chernoff. A writer of experience, well-read
in socialist literature, an experienced hand in factional strife, he had constantly remained
at the head of the party, when party life was being built up in emigrant circles abroad. The
Revolution which had raised the S. R. party to an enormous height with its first indiscriminating
wave, automatically raised Chernoff, too, only to reveal his complete impotence even as compared
with the other leading political lights of the first period. The paltry resources which had
secured to Chernoff a preponderance in the populist circles abroad, proved too light in the
scales of the Revolution. He concentrated his efforts on not taking any responsible decisions,
evading in all critical cases, waiting and abstaining. For some little time, tactics of this
kind secured for him the position as center between the ever more diverging flanks. But there
was no longer any possibility of preserving party unity for long. The former terrorist, Savinkof,
took part in Korniloff's conspiracy, was in touching unanimity with the counter-revolutionary
circles of Cossack officers and was preparing an onslaught on Petrograd workingmen and soldiers,
among whom there were quite a few left S. R.'s. As a sacrifice to the left wing, the Center
expelled Savinkof from the party, but hesitated to raise a hand against Kerensky. In the Pre-Parliament,
the party showed signs of extreme disruption: three groups existed independently, though under
the banner of one and the same party, but none of the groups knew exactly what it wanted. The
formal domination of this "party" in the Constituent Assembly would have meant only a continuation
of political prostration.

WITHDRAWING FROM THE PRE-PARLIAMENT. THE VOICE OF THE FRONT

Before withdrawing from the membership in the Pre-Parliament where, according to Kerensky's
and Tseretelli's political statistics, we were entitled to some half a hundred seats, we arranged
a conference with the left S. R. group. They refused to follow us, claiming that they still
had to demonstrate practically before the peasantry the insolvency of the Pre-Parliament. Said
one of the leaders of the left S. R.'s:

"We deem it necessary to warn you that if you want to withdraw from the Pre-Parliament in order
forthwith to go into the streets for an open fight, we shall not follow you."

The bourgeois-fusionist press accused us of striving to kill prematurely the Pre-Parliament,
for the very purpose of creating a revolutionary situation. At our faction meeting in the Pre-Parliament,
it was decided to act independently and not wait for the left S. R.'s. Our party's declaration,
proclaimed from the Pre-Parliament rostrum and explaining why we were breaking with this institution,
was greeted with a howl of hatred and impotence on the part of the majority groups. In the
Petrograd Soviet of Deputies, where our withdrawal from the Pre-Parliament was approved by
an overwhelming majority, the leader of the tiny "internationalist" Menshevik group, Martof,
explained to us that the withdrawal from the temporary Soviet of the Republic (such was the
official appellation of this little-respected institution) would be sensible only in case we
proposed immediately to assume an open offensive. But the point is that this is just what we
intended. The prosecutors for the liberal bourgeoisie were right, when accusing us of striving
to create a revolutionary situation. In open insurrection and direct seizure of power we beheld
the only way out of the situation.

Again, as in the July days, the press and all the other organs of so-called public opinion
were mobilized against us. From the July arsenals were dragged forth the most envenomed weapons
which had been temporarily stored away there after the Korniloff days. Vain efforts! The mass
was irresistibly moving toward us, and its spirit was rising hour by hour. From the trenches
delegates kept arriving. "How long," said they, at the Petrograd Soviet meetings, "will this
impossible situation last? The soldiers have told us to declare to you: if no decisive steps
for peace are made by November 1st, the trenches will be deserted, the entire army will rush
to the rear!" This determination was really spreading at the front. There the soldiers were
passing on, from one unit to another, home-made proclamations, summoning them not to remain
in the trenches later than the first snowfall. "You have forgotten about us," the delegates
on foot from the trenches exclaimed at the Soviet meetings. "If you find no way out of the
situation, we shall come here ourselves, and with our bayonets we shall disperse our enemies,
including you." In the course of a few weeks the Petrograd Council had become the center of
attraction for the whole army. After its leading tendency had been changed and new presiding
officers elected, its resolutions inspired the exhausted and despondent troops at the front
with the hope that the way out of the situation could be practically found in the manner proposed
by the Bolsheviks: by publishing the secret treaties and proposing an immediate truce on all
fronts. "You say that power must pass into the hands of the Soviets, grasp it then. Yon fear
that the front will not support you. Cast all misgivings aside, the soldier masses are with
you in overwhelming majority."

Meanwhile the conflict regarding the transfer of the garrison kept on developing. Almost daily,
a garrison conference met, consisting of committees from the companies, regiments and commands.
The influence of our party in the garrison was established definitely and indestructibly. The
Petrograd District Staff was in a state of extreme perplexity. Now it would attempt to enter
into regular relations with us, then again, egged on by the leaders of the Central Executive
Committee, it would threaten us with repressive measures.

Above, mention has already been made of organizing, at the Petrograd Soviet, a Military Revolutionary
Committee, which was intended to be, in fact, the Soviet Staff of the Petrograd garrison in
opposition to Kerensky's Staff. "But the existence of two staffs is inadmissible," the representatives
of the fusionist parties dogmatically admonished us. "But is a situation admissible, wherein
the garrison mistrusts the official staff and fears that the transfer of soldiers from Petrograd
has been dictated by a new counter-revolutionary machination?" we retorted. "The creation of
a second staff means insurrection," came the reply from the Right. "Your Military Revolutionary
Committee's task will not be so much to verify the operative projects and orders of the military
authorities as the preparation and execution of an insurrection against the present government."
This objection was just: But for that very reason it did not frighten anybody. An overwhelming
majority of the Soviet was aware of the necessity of overthrowing the coalition power. The
more circumstantially the Mensheviks and S. R.'s demonstrated that the Military Revolutionary
Committee would inevitably turn into an organ of insurrection, the greater the eagerness with
which the Petrograd Soviet supported the new fighting organization.

The Military Revolutionary Committee's first act was to appoint commissioners to all parts
of the Petrograd garrison and all the most important institutions of the capital and environs.
From various quarters we were receiving communications that the government, or more correctly,
the government parties, were actively organizing and arming their forces. From various arms-depots-governmental
and private-rifles, revolvers, machine guns and cartridges were being brought forth for arming
cadets, students and bourgeois youths in general. It was necessary to take immediate preventive
measures. Commissioners were appointed to all arms-depots and stores. Almost without opposition
they became masters of the situation. To be sure, the commandants and proprietors of the depots
tried not to recognize them, but a mere application to the soldiers' committee or the employees
of each institution sufficed to cause the immediate breakdown of the opposition. After that,
arms were issued only on order of our Commissioners.

Even prior to that, regiments of the Petrograd garrison had their commissioners, but these
had been appointed by the Central Executive Committee. Above, we said that after the June Congress
of Soviets, and particularly after the June 18th demonstration which revealed the ever growing
power of the Bolsheviks, the fusionist parties had almost entirely deprived the Petrograd Soviet
of any practical influence on the course of events in the revolutionary capital. The leadership
of the Petrograd garrison was concentrated in the hands of the Central Executive Committee.
Now the task everywhere was to put in the Petrograd Soviet's Commissioners. This was achieved
with the most energetic cooperation of the soldier masses. Meetings, addressed by speakers
of various parties, had the result, invariably, that regiment after regiment declared it would
recognize only the Petrograd Soviet's Commissioners and would not budge a step without its
decision.

An important role in appointing these Commissioners was played by the Bolsheviks' military
organization. Before the July days it had developed a widespread agitational activity. On July
5th, a battalion of cyclists, brought by Kerensky to Petrograd, battered down the isolated
Kshessinsky mansion where our party's military organization was quartered. The majority of
leaders, and many privates among the members were arrested, the publications were stopped,
the printing shop was wrecked. Only by degrees did the organization begin to repair its machinery
afresh, conspiratively this time. Numerically it comprised in its ranks but a very insignificant
part of the Petrograd garrison, a few hundred men all told. But there were among them many
soldiers and young officers, chiefly ensigns, resolute, and with heart and soul devoted to
the Revolution, who had passed through Kerensky's prisons in July and August. All of them had
placed themselves at the Military Revolutionary Committee's disposal and were being assigned
to the most responsible fighting posts.

However, it would not be superfluous to remark that precisely the members of our party's military
organization assumed in October an attitude of extraordinary caution and even some skepticism
toward the idea of an immediate insurrection. The closed character of the organization and
its officially military character involuntarily inclined its leaders to underestimate the purely
technical and organizational resources of the uprising, and from this point of view we were
undoubtedly weak. Our strength lay in the revolutionary enthusiasm of the masses and their
readiness to fight under our banner.

Parallel with the organizing activity a stormy agitation was being carried on. This was the
period of incessant meetings at works, in the "Modern" and "Chinizelli" circuses, at clubs,
in barracks. The atmosphere at all the meetings was charged with electricity. Each mention
of the insurrection was greeted with a storm of plaudits and shouts of delight. The bourgeois
press merely increased the state of universal panic. An order issued over my signature to the
Syestroyetsk munitions factory to issue five thousand rifles to the Red Guard evoked an indescribable
panic in bourgeois circles. "The general massacre" in course of preparation was talked and
written about everywhere. Of course, this did not in the least prevent the workingmen of the
Syestroyetsk munitions factory from handing the arms over to the Red Guards. The more frantically
the bourgeois press slandered and baited us, the more ardently the masses responded to our
call. It was growing clearer and clearer for both sides that the crisis must break within the
next few days. The press of the S. R.'s and Mensheviks was sounding an alarm. "The Revolution
is in the greatest danger. A repetition of the July days is being prepared--but on a much wider
basis and therefore still more destructive in its consequences." In his Novaya Zhizn, Gorki
daily prophesied the approaching wreck of all civilization. In general, the Socialistic veneer
of the bourgeois intellectuals was wearing off at the approach of the stern domination of the
workers' dictatorship. But, on the other hand, the soldiers of even the most backward regiments
hailed with delight the Military Revolutionary Committee's commissioners. Delegates came to
us from Cossack units and from the Socialist minority of military cadets. They promised at
least to assure the neutrality of their units in case of open conflict. Manifestly Kerensky's
government was losing its foundations.

The District Staff began negotiations with us and proposed a compromise. In order to size up
the enemy's full resistance, we entered into pourparlers. But the Staff was nervous; now they
exhorted, then threatened us, they even declared our commissioners to be without power, which,
however, did not in the least affect their work. In accord with the Staff, the Central Executive
Committee appointed Captain of Staff Malefski to be Chief Commissioner for the Petrograd Military
District and magnanimously consented to recognize our commissioners, on condition of their
being subordinate to the Chief Commissioner. The proposal was rejected and the negotiations
broken off. Prominent Mensheviks and S. R.'s came to us as intermediaries, exhorted, threatened
and foretold our doom and the doom of the Revolution.

THE "PETROGRAD SOVIET DAY"

At this period the Smolny building was already completely in the hands of the Petrograd Soviet
and of our party. The Mensheviks and the S. R.'s transferred their political activity to the
Maryiinsky Palace, where the infant Pre-Parliament was already expiring. In the Pre-Parliament
Kerensky delivered a great speech, in which, stormily applauded by the bourgeois wing, he endeavored
to conceal his impotence behind clamorous threats. The Staff made its last attempt at opposition.
To all units of the garrison it sent out invitations to appoint two delegates to conferences
concerning the removal of troops from the capital. The first conference was called for October
22nd, at 11 P. M. From the regiments we immediately received information about it. By telephone
we issued a call for a garrison conference at 11 A. M. Withal, a part of the delegates did
get to the Staff quarters, only to declare that without the Petrograd Soviet's decision they
would not move anywhere. Almost unanimously the Garrison Conference confirmed its allegiance
to the Military Revolutionary Committee. Objections came only from official representatives
of the former Soviet parties, but they found no response whatever among the regimental delegates.
The Staff's attempt brought out only more strikingly that we were standing on firm ground.
In the front rank there was the Volhynian Regiment, the very one which on July 4th, with its
band playing, had invaded the Tauri'da Palace, in order to put down the Bolsheviks.

As already mentioned earlier, the Central Executive Committee had charge of the Petrograd Soviet's
treasury and its publications. An attempt to obtain even a single one of these publications
brought no results. Beginning with the end of September, we initiated a series of measures
toward creating an independent newspaper of the Petrograd Soviet. But all printing establishments
were occupied and their owners boycotted us with the assistance of the Central Executive Committee.
It was decided to arrange for a "Petrograd Soviet Day," for the purpose of developing a widespread
agitation and collecting pecuniary resources for establishing a newspaper. About a fortnight
before, this day was set for October 22nd, and consequently it coincided with the moment of
the open outburst of the insurrection.

