"O noble merchants!" cried the slave, "why did you not tell me that before?" and he opened
wide the gate, and let them in. After they had passed the outer gate, which was of wood, they
went through another of iron, and another of brass, and another of copper, and then walked
through the court-yard, filled with armed slaves, and up the great castle steps; at the top
of which stood the butler, dressed in gorgeous array.

"Whom have you here, base slave?" cried the gorgeous butler.

"Five noble merchants, invited to my lord's feast," said the slave, bowing to the ground.

"But they cannot enter the banqueting hall in such garbs," said the butler. "They cannot be
noble merchants, if they come not nobly dressed to my lord's feast."

"O sir!" said Alcahazar, "may your delicate and far-reaching understanding be written in books,
and taught to youth in foreign lands, and may your profound judgment ever overawe your country!
But allow us now to tell you that we have gorgeous dresses in these our packs. Would we soil
them with the dust of travel, ere we entered the halls of my lord the dwarf?"

The butler bowed low at this address, and caused the five magicians to be conducted to five
magnificent chambers, where were slaves, and lights, and baths, and soap, and towels, and wash-rags,
and tooth-brushes; and each magician took a gorgeous dress from his pack, and put it on, and
then they were all conducted (with Ting-a-ling still in Zamcar's turban) to the grand hall,
where the feast was being held. Here they found the dwarf and his guests, numbering a hundred,
having a truly jolly time. The dwarf, who was dressed in white (to make him look larger), was
seated on a high red velvet cushion at the end of the hall, and the company sat cross-legged
on rugs, in a great circle before him. He was drinking out of a huge bottle nearly as big as
himself, and eating little birds; and judging by the bones that were left, he must have eaten
nearly a whole flock of them. When he saw the five magicians entering, he stopped eating, and
opened his eyes in amazement, and then shouted to his servants to tell him who these people
were, who came without permission to his feast; but as no one knew, nobody answered. The guests,
seeing the stately demeanor and magnificent dresses of the visitors, thought that they were
at least five great monarchs.

"My lord the dwarf," said Alcahazar, advancing toward him, "I am the king of a far country;
and passing your castle, and hearing of your feast, I have made bold to come and offer you
some of the sweet-tasting birds of my kingdom." So saying, he lifted up his richly embroidered
cloak, and took from under it a great silver dish containing about two hundred dozen hot, smoking,
delicately cooked, fat little birds. Under the dish were fastened lamps of perfumed oil, all
lighted, and keeping the savory food nice and hot. Making a low bow, the magician placed the
dish before the dwarf, who tasted one of the birds, and immediately clapped his hands with
joy. "Great King!" he cried, "welcome to my feast! Slaves, quick! make room for the great king!"
As there was no vacant place, the slaves took hold of one of the guests, and gave him what
the boys would call a "hist," right through the window, and Alcahazar took his place. Then
stepped forward Ormanduz, and said, "My lord the dwarf, I am also the king of a far country,
and I have made bold to offer you some of the wine of my kingdom." So saying, he lifted his
gold-lined cloak, and took from beneath it a crystal decanter, covered with gold and ruby ornaments,
with one hundred and one beautifully carved silver goblets hanging from its neck, and which
contained about eleven gallons of the most delicious wine. He placed it before the dwarf, who,
having tasted the wine, gave a great cheer, and shouted to his slaves to make room for this
mighty king. So the slaves took another guest by the neck and heels, and sent him, slam-bang,
through the window, and Ormanduz took his place. Then stepped forward Mahallah, and said, "My
lord the dwarf, I am also the king of a far country, and I bring you a sample of the venison
of my kingdom." So saying, he raised his velvet cloak, trimmed with diamonds, and took from
under it a whole deer, already cooked, and stuffed with oysters, anchovies, buttered toast,
olives, tamarind seeds, sweet-marjoram, sage, and many other herbs and spices, and all piping
hot, and smelling deliciously. This he put down before the dwarf, who, when he had tasted it,
waved his goblet over his head, and cried out to the slaves to make room for this mighty king.
So the slaves seized another guest, and out of the window, like a shot, he went, and Mahallah
took his place. Then Akbeck stepped up, and said, "My lord the dwarf, I am also the king of
a far country, and I bring you some of the confections of my dominions." So saying, he took
from under his cloak of gold cloth, a great basket of silver filagree work, in which were cream-chocolates,
and burnt almonds, and sponge-cake, and lady's fingers, and mixtures, and gingernuts, and hoar-hound
candy, and gum-drops, and fruit-cake, and cream candy, and mintstick, and pound-cake, and rock
candy, and butter taffy, and many other confections, amounting in all to about two hundred
and twenty pounds. He placed the basket before the dwarf, who tasted some of these good things,
and found them so delicious, that he lay on his back and kicked up his heels in delight, shouting
to his slaves to make room for this great king. As the next guest was a big, fat man, too heavy
to throw far, he was seized by four slaves, who walked him Spanish right out of the door, and
Akbeck took his place. Then Zamcar stepped forward and said, "My lord the dwarf, I also am
king of a far country, and I bring you some of the fruit of my dominions." And so saying, he
took from beneath his gold and purple cloak, a great basket filled with currants as big as
grapes, and grapes as big as plums, and plums as big as peaches, and peaches as big as cantaloupes,
and cantaloupes as big as water-melons, and water-melons as big as barrels. There were about
nineteen bushels of them altogether, and he put them before the dwarf, who, having tasted some
of them, clapped his hands, and shouted to his slaves to make room for this mighty king; but
as the next guest had very sensibly got up and gone out, Zamcar took his seat without any delay.
Then Ting-a-ling, who was very much excited by all these wonderful performances, slipped down
out of Zamcar's turban, and, running up towards the dwarf, cried out, "My lord the dwarf, I
am also the king of a far country, and I bring you"--and he lifted up his little cloak; but
as there was nothing there, he said no more, but clambered up into Zamcar's turban again. As
nobody noticed or heard him, so great was the bustle and noise of the festivity, his speech
made no difference one way or the other. After everybody had eaten and drunk until they could
eat and drink no more, the dwarf jumped up and called to the chief butler, to know how many
beds were prepared for the guests; to which the butler answered that there were thirty beds
prepared. "Then," said the dwarf, "give these five noble kings each one of the best rooms,
with a down bed, and a silken comfortable; and give the other beds to the twenty-five biggest
guests. As to the rest, turn them out!" So the dwarf went to bed, and each of the magicians
had a splendid room, and twenty-five of the biggest guests had beds, and the rest were all
turned out. As it was pouring down rain, and freezing, and cold, and wet, and slippery (for
the weather was very unsettled on this mountain), and all these guests, who now found themselves
outside of the castle gates, lived many miles away, and as none of them had any hats, or knew
the way home, they were very miserable indeed.

Alcahazar did not go to bed, but sat in his room and reflected. He saw that the dwarf had given
this feast on account of his joy at having captured the Princess, and thus caused grief to
the King and Prince, and all the people; but it was also evident that he was very sly, and
had not mentioned the matter to any of the company. The other magicians did not go to bed either,
but sat in their rooms, and thought the same thing; and Ting-a-ling, in Zamcar's turban, was
of exactly the same opinion. So, in about an hour, when all was still, the magicians got up,
and went softly over the castle. One went down into the lower rooms, and there were all the
slaves, fast asleep; and another into one wing of the castle, and there were half the guests,
fast asleep; and another into the other wing, and there were the rest of the guests, fast asleep;
and Alcahazar went into the dwarf's room, in the centre of the castle, and there was he, fast
asleep, with one of his fists shut tight. The magician touched his fist with his magic staff,
and it immediately opened, and there was a key! So Alcahazar took the key, and shut up the
dwarf's hand again. Zamcar went up to the floor, near the top of the house, and entered a large
room, which was empty, but the walls were hung with curtains made of snakes' skins, beautifully
woven together. Ting-a-ling slipped down to the floor, and, peeping behind these curtains,
saw the hinge of a door; and without saying a word, he got behind the curtain; and, sure enough,
there was a door! and there was a key-hole! and in a minute, there was Ting-a-ling right through
it! and there was the Princess in a chair in the middle of a great room, crying as if her heart
would break! By the light of the moon, which had now broken through the clouds, Ting-a-ling
saw that she was tied fast to the chair. So he climbed up on her shoulder, and called her by
name; and when the Princess heard him and knew him, she took him into her lovely hands, and
kissed him, and cried over him, and laughed over him so much, that her joy had like to have
been the death of him. When she got over her excitement, she told him how she had been stolen
away; how she had heard her favorite cat squeak in the middle of the night, and how she had
got up quickly to go to it, supposing it had been squeezed in some door, and how the wicked
dwarf, who had been imitating the cat, was just outside the door with his slaves; and how they
had seized her, and bound her, and carried her off to this castle, without waking up any of
the King's household. Then Ting-a-ling told her that his five friends were there, and that
they were going to see what they could do; and the Princess was very glad to hear that, you
may be sure. Then Ting-a-ling slipped down to the floor, and through the key-hole; and as he
entered the room where he had left Zamcar, in came Alcahazar with the key and the other magicians
with news that everybody was asleep. When Ting-a-ling had told about the Princess, Alcahazar
pushed aside the curtains, unlocked the door with the key, and they all entered the next room.

There, sure enough, was the Princess Aufalia; but, right in front of her, on the floor, squatted
the dwarf, who had missed his key, and had slipped up by a back way! The magicians started
back on seeing him; the Princess was crying bitterly, and Ting-a-ling ran past the dwarf (who
was laughing too horribly to notice him), and climbing upon the Princess's shoulder, sat there
among her curls, and did his best to comfort her.

"Anyway," said he, "I shall not leave you again," and he drew his little sword, and felt as
big as a house. The magicians now advanced towards the dwarf; but he, it seems, was a bit of
a magician himself, for he waved a little wand, and instantly a strong partition of iron wire
rose up out of the floor, and, reaching from one wall to the other, separated him completely
from the five men. The magicians no sooner saw this, than they cried out, "O ho! Mr. Dwarf,
is that your game?"

"Yes," said the little wretch, chuckling; "can you play at it?"

"A little," said they; and each one pulled from under his cloak a long file; and filing the
partition from the wall on each side, which only needed a few strokes from their sharp files,
they pulled it entirely down. But before the magicians could reach him, the dwarf again waved
his wand, and a great chasm opened in the floor before them, which was too wide to jump over,
and so deep that the bottom could not be seen.

"O ho!" cried the magicians; "another game, eh!"

"Yes indeed," cried the dwarf. "Just let me see you play at that."

Each of the magicians then took from under his magic cloak a long board, and, putting them
over the chasm, they began to walk across them. But the dwarf jumped up and waved his wand,
and water commenced to fall on the boards, where it immediately froze; and they were so slippery,
that the magicians could hardly keep their feet, and could not make one step forward. Even
standing still, they came very near falling off into the chasm below. "I suppose you can play
at that," said the dwarf; and the magicians replied.

"O yes!" and each one took from under his cloak a pan of ashes, and sprinkled the boards, and
walked right over. But before they reached the other edge, the dwarf pushed the chair, which
was on rollers, up against the wall behind him, which opened; and instantly the Princess, Ting-a-ling,
and the dwarf disappeared, and the wall closed up. Without saying a word, the magicians each
drew from beneath his cloak a pickaxe, and they cut a hole in the wall in a few minutes. There
was a large room on the other side, but it was entirely empty. So they sat down, and got out
their magical calculators, and soon discovered that the Princess was in the lowest part of
the castle; but the magical calculators being a little out of order, they could not show exactly
her place of confinement. Then the five hurried down-stairs, where they found the slaves still
asleep; but one poor little boy, whose business it was to get up early every morning and split
kindling wood, having had none of the feast, was not very sleepy, and woke up when he heard
footsteps near him. The magicians asked him if he could show them to the lowest part of the
castle. "All right," said he; "this way;" and he led them to where there was a great black
hole, with a windlass over it. "Get in the bucket," said he, "and I will lower you down."

"Bucket!" cried Alcahazar. "Is that a well?"

"To be sure it is," said the boy, who had nothing on but the baby-clothes he had worn ever
since he was born; and which, as he was now about ten years old, had split a good deal in the
back and arms, but in length they were very suitable.

"But there can be no one down there," said the magician. "I see deep water."

"Of course there is nobody there," replied the boy. "Were you told to go down there to meet
anybody? Because, if you were, you had better take some tubs down with you, to sit in. But
all I know about it is, that it's the lowest part of this old hole of a castle."

"Boy," said Alcahazar, "there is a young lady shut up down here somewhere. Do you know where
she is?"

"How old is she?" asked the boy.

"About seventeen," said the magician.

"O then! if she is no older than that, I should think she'd be in the preserve-closet, if she
knew where it was," and the boy pointed to a great door, barred and locked, where the dwarf,
who had a very sweet tooth, kept all his preserves locked up tight and fast. Zamcar stooped
and looked through the key-hole of this door, and there, sure enough, was the Princess! So
the boy proved to be smarter than all the magicians. Each of our five friends now took from
under his cloak a crowbar, and in a minute they had forced open the great door. But they had
scarcely entered, when the dwarf, springing on the arm of the chair to which the Princess was
still tied, drew his sword, and clapped it to her throat, crying out, that if the magicians
came one step nearer, he would slice her head off.

"O ho!" cried they, "is that your game?"

"Yes indeed," said the chuckling dwarf; "can you play at it?"

The magicians did not appear to think that they could; but Ting-a-ling, who was still on the
Princess's shoulder, though unseen by the dwarf, suddenly shouted, "I can play!" and in an
instant he had driven his little sword into the dwarf's eye, who immediately sprang from the
chair with a howl of anguish. While he was yelling and skipping about, with his hands to his
eyes, the poor boy, who hated him worse than pills, clapped a great jar of preserves over him,
and sat down on the bottom of the jar! The magicians then untied the Princess; and as she looked
weak and faint, Zamcar, the youngest, took from under his cloak a little table, set with everything
hot and nice for supper; and when the Princess had eaten something and taken a cup of tea,
she felt a great deal better. Alcahazar lifted up the jar from the dwarf, and there was the
little rascal, so covered up with sticky jam, that he could not speak and could hardly move.
So, taking an oil-cloth bag from under his cloak, Alcahazar dropped the dwarf into it, and
tied it up, and hung it to his girdle. The two youngest magicians made a sort of chair out
of a shawl, and they carried the Princess on it between them, very comfortably; and as Ting-a-ling
still remained on her shoulder, she began to feel that things were beginning to look brighter.
They then asked the poor boy what he would like best as a reward for what he had done; and
he said that if they would shut him up in that room, and lock the door tight, and lose the
key, he would be happy all the days of his life. So they left the boy (who knew what was good,
and was already sucking away at a jar of preserved green-gages) in the room, and they shut
the door and locked it tight, and lost the key; and he lived there for ninety-one years, eating
preserves; and when they were all gone, he died. All that time he never had any clothes but
his baby-clothes, and they got pretty sticky before his death. Then our party left the castle;
and as they passed the slaves still fast asleep, the three oldest magicians took from under
their cloaks watering-pots, filled with water that makes men sleep, and they watered the slaves
with it, until they were wet enough to sleep a week. When they went through the gates of copper,
brass, iron, and wood, they left them all open behind them. They had not gone far before they
saw seventy-five men, all sitting in a row at the side of the road, and looking woefully indeed.
They had been wet to the skin, and were now frozen stiff, not one of them being able to move
anything but his eyelids, and they were all crying as if their hearts would break. So the magicians
stopped, and the three oldest each took from under his cloak a pair of bellows, and they blew
hot air on the poor creatures until they were all thawed. Then Alcahazar told them to go up
to the castle, and take it for their own, and live there all the rest of their lives. He informed
them that the dwarf was his prisoner, and that the slaves would sleep for a week.

When the seventy-five guests (for those who had been taken from the feast, had joined their
comrades) heard this, they all started up, and ran like deer for the castle; and when they
reached it, they woke up their comrades, and took possession, and lived there all their lives.
The man who had been first thrown through the window, and who had broken the way through the
glass for the others, was elected their chief, because he had suffered the most; and excepting
the trouble of doing their own work for a week, until the slaves awoke, these people were very
happy ever afterwards.

It was just daylight when our party left the dwarf's castle, and by the next evening they had
reached the palace. The army had not got back, and there was no one there but the ladies of
the Princess. When these saw their dear mistress, there was never before such a kissing, and
hugging, and crying, and laughing. Ting-a-ling came in for a good share of praise and caressing;
and if he had not slipped away to tell his tale to the fairy Queen, there is no knowing what
would have become of him. The magicians sat down outside of the Princess's apartments, to guard
her until the army should return; and the ladies would have kissed and hugged them, in their
gratitude and joy, if they had not been such dignified and grave personages.

Now, the King, the Prince, and the great army, had gone miles and miles away in the opposite
direction to the dwarf's castle, and the Princess and her ladies could not think how to let
them know what had happened. As for ringing the great bell, they knew that that would be useless,
for they would never hear it at the distance they were, and so they wished that they had some
fireworks to set off. Therefore Zamcar, the youngest magician, offered to go up to the top
of the palace and set off some. So, when he got up to the roof, he lifted up his cloak, and
took out some fireworks, and set them off; and the light shone for miles and miles, and the
King and all his army saw it. The King had just begun to feel tired, and to think that he would
pitch his tent, and rest for the night by the side of a pleasant stream they had reached, when
he saw the light from the palace, and instantly knew that there had been tidings of the Princess,--kings
are so smart, you know. So, when his slaves came to ask him where they should pitch his tent,
he shouted, "Pitch it in the river! 'Tention, army! Right about face, for home,--MARCH!" and
away the whole army marched for home, the band playing the lively air of

  "Cream cakes for supper,
      Heigh O! Heigh O!
  O! Cream cakes for supper,
      Heigh O! Heigh O!"--

so as to keep up the spirits of the tired men. When they approached the palace, which was all
lighted up, there was the Princess standing at the great door, in her Sunday clothes, and looking
as lovely as a full-blown rose. The King jumped from his high-mettled racer, and went up the
steps, two at a time; but the Prince, springing from his fiery steed bounded up three steps
at once, and got there first. When he and the King had got through hugging and kissing the
Princess, her Sunday clothes looked as if they had been worn a week.

"Now then for supper," said the King, "and I hope it's ready." But the Princess said never
a word, for she had forgotten all about supper; and all the ladies hung their heads, and were
afraid to speak. But when they reached the great hall, they found that the magicians had been
at work, and had cooked a grand supper. There it was, on ever so many long tables, all smoking
hot, and smelling delightfully. So they all sat down, for there was room enough for every man,
and nobody said a word until he was as tight as a drum.

When they had all had enough, and were just about to begin to talk, there were heard strains
of the most delightful soft music; and directly, in at a window came the Queen of the fairies,
attended by her court, all mounted on beautiful golden moths and dragon-flies. When they reached
the velvet table in front of the throne, where the King had been eating, with his plate on
his lap, they arranged themselves in a circle on the table, and the Queen spoke out in a clear
little voice, that could have been heard almost anywhere, and announced to the King that the
little Ting-a-ling, who now wore her royal scarf, was the preserver of his daughter.

"O ho!" said the King; "and what can I do for such a mite as you, my fine little fellow?"

Then Ting-a-ling, who wanted nothing for himself, and only thought of the good of his people,
made a low bow to the King, and shouted at the top of his voice, "Your royal gardeners are
going to make asparagus beds all over our fairy pleasure grounds. If you can prevent that,
I have nothing more to ask."

"Blow, Horner, blow!" cried the King, "and hear, all men! If any man, woman, or child, from
this time henceforward forever, shall dare to set foot in the garden now occupied by the fairies,
he shall be put to death, he and all his family, and his relations, as far as they can be traced.
Take notice of that, every one of you!"

Ting-a-ling then bowed his thanks, and all the people made up their minds to take very particular
notice of what the King had said.

Then the magicians were ordered to come forward and name their reward; but they bowed their
heads, and simply besought the King that he would grant them seven rye straws, the peeling
from a red apple, and the heel from one of his old slippers. What in the name of common sense
they wanted with these, no one but themselves knew; but magicians are such strange creatures!
When these valuable gifts had been bestowed upon them, the five good magicians departed, leaving
the dwarf for the King to do what he pleased with. This little wretch was shut up in an iron
cage, and every day was obliged to eat three codfish, a bushel of Irish potatoes, and eleven
pounds of bran crackers, and to drink a gallon of cambric tea; all of which things he despised
from the bottom of his miserable little heart.

"Now," cried the King, "all is settled, and let everybody go to bed. There is room enough in
the palace for all to sleep to-night. Form in line, and to bed,--MARCH!" So they all formed
in line, and began to march to bed, to the music of the band; and the fairies, their little
horns blowing, and with Ting-a-ling at the post of honor by the Queen, took up their line of
march, out of the window to the garden, which was to be, henceforward forever, their own. Just
as they were all filing out, in flew little Parsley on the back of his butterfly, which had
been hatched out at last.

"Hello!" cried he. "Is it all over?"

"Pretty nearly," said Ting-a-ling. "It's just letting out. How came you to be so late?"

"Easy enough," said poor little Parsley. "Of all the mean things that ever was the pokiest
long time in unwrapping its wings, this butterfly's the meanest."

THE MAGICAL MUSIC.

There was once an excessively mighty King, Barradin the Great, who died, leaving no sons or
daughters, or any relation on the face of the earth, to inherit his crown. So his throne, at
the time of which I write, was vacant. This mighty King had been of a very peculiar disposition.
Unlike other potentates, he took no delight in going to war, or in cutting off people's heads,
or in getting married, or building palaces. But he was a great musician. All that he cared
for, seemed to be music; and the whole of his leisure time, with a great many of his business
hours, was occupied in either composing or performing music of some kind. Everybody around
him was obliged to be musical; and if one was not so, it would be of no use for him to apply
for any situation. His Prime Minister played on the violin, his Secretary performed on the
horn, while his Treasurer was superb upon the great drum. Every time the Royal Council met,
the minutes of the last meeting, all set to music, were sung by the Secretary; and when the
King made a speech, he always sung it in a magnificent bass voice, accompanied by a full orchestra.
If any one wished to present a petition, he was always sure of having it granted, if he could
but sing it excellently well, and even folks who were good at whistling were favorably received
at court. The example of the King was followed by the people. They nearly always talked to
some tune, and every one but the very poorest owned an instrument.

So this mighty monarch never went to war, or cut off people's heads, or married more than once;
and as for building palaces, it was of no use, for he had as many as he wanted, already. The
last ten years of his life were occupied, almost entirely, in the composition of a wonderful
piece of music, in which he sought, by means of perseverance and magic, to combine all the
beauties and difficulties of the science. He had scarcely finished it, when he died; and it
was generally supposed that if he had not worked so hard at it, he would have lived much longer.

The composition was not long, for you could have sung it in ten minutes, that is, if you could
have sung it at all; which is by no means likely, for had that been the case (and you had lived
in those days) you might have ruled over the country. For, just before the mighty King died,
he made a decree to this effect,--that his successor on the throne should be the man, woman,
or child who could, at sight, sing that piece of music.

So the music was put up against a marble tablet in the great hall of the royal palace, and
there were six judges appointed,--the most distinguished professors of music in the country,--and
these sat on great velvet chairs, three on each side of the music, and anybody might come to
try who chose.

You may well believe that the people came in crowds, for nearly every one wished to be king
or queen, as the case might be. This music had a very singular effect upon most of those who
did not succeed in singing it. They nearly all went crazy. The first few notes were easy, and
they were so beautiful, that it was enough to make any one crazy to think that they could not
sing the rest of it,--not to mention missing the crown. The Prime Minister had, on this account,
a great asylum built, to which the disappointed candidates were immediately conveyed, and the
house was very soon filled. Indeed, it was often necessary to build extensions to the main
building, and it was not long before this was the largest edifice in the country. It is true,
that although every one failed to sing the music, they did not all go crazy; but they were
taken to the asylum the same as the rest, and if they were not crazy when they got there, they
soon became so, and thus it amounted to pretty much the same thing in the end. Well, the judges
sat in their chairs until they died at a good old age, and they were succeeded by others just
as learned. Latterly there were not so many applications as there used to be, but still, every
few days, some one went out to the asylum. Years passed, and the offices of the judges became
sinecures; but they had to sit there all the same, just as if they expected to be busy; and
they might have been seen, whenever anybody chose to step in during the day, sitting there
with their chins on their breasts, fast asleep. The Prime Minister, and after him his son,
ruled the country very well, and people began to feel as if they didn't care if they never
had a king or a queen to govern them. As a rule, they all felt very comfortable without anything
of the kind.

Now it so happened that about this time a certain young Prince, accompanied by an old gentleman
(to take care of him), was travelling in this great kingdom. His father's dominion was very
many miles away; but the Prince had been journeying in this direction for quite a long time,
taking things easily, and seeing everything that was to be seen. His mother had died when he
was quite young, and his father had lately married the daughter of a gnome, probably because
their estates joined,--his stretching for many miles over the surface of the earth, while hers
lay immediately beneath them. The Prince did not like his gnome step-mother (who was, you know,
one of those large underground fairies, who are more like human beings than any others), and
when a little gnome-baby was born, he could stand it no longer, and so obtained permission
of his father to travel for the good of his body and mind. So he had been going from country
to country until he reached the capital city of the great kingdom.

There the Prince saw enough to fill him with wonder for the rest of his life. His old friend,
Trumkard, took him day by day into the bazaars, and the palaces, and the mosques, and hundreds
of places just as nice. One beautiful evening the Prince set out for a walk by himself through
the city. The gentle twilight still tinged the sky with gold, and the soft breeze from the
river, that passed through fruit-gardens and vineyards on its way to the city, smelt of peaches,
and grapes, and plums, and oranges, and pomegranates, and pineapples, and was truly very delicious.
Everything was lovely, and the Prince felt good and happy. The very beggars, when he had passed
them, blessed the happy stars that had caused them to be born during his life-time, so noble
and generous was the Prince this evening. Strolling along, he came to the palace of the mighty
King. The Prince knew the palace; for Trumkard had taken him into it, and had shown him the
six judges sitting in their velvet chairs, and the magical music hanging up against the marble
tablet between them. He knew all about the music, and the conditions attached to it, but, not
being much of a musician, he had never felt inclined to try it. So he walked through the royal
courts and vestibules, and into the great hall where stood the six chairs,--empty, and covered
with silken covers to keep the dust off during the night. And the music was concealed by a
great plate of gold which was locked over it every night. He met but few persons; for every
one who was not detained by some particular duty, had gone out-of-doors that lovely night.
Here and there, a porter, or a black eunuch, or a soldier or two, he met; but as every one
who saw him, knew him instantly for a prince of good blood, he could, of course, wander where
he pleased. He passed on among the golden columns and sculptured doorways, and under vaulted
and arabesque ceilings, until he came to a door of mother-of-pearl, which had a golden lock,
an alabaster knob, and a diamond key-hole. It turned easily on silver hinges, and the Prince
passed by it into a beautiful garden. He had never been in such a place of loveliness. The
trees were hung with many soft-colored lamps, and the fruit glittered and shone in gorgeous
colors on the branches. Every night-bird sang, and every night-flower was giving forth its
fragrance. In the middle of the garden was a fountain, the waters of which rose in a single
jet from the centre, and then, as they fell back into the basin, each of their thousand drops
struck upon a silver harp-string, causing the most delightful sounds to fill the air, and mingle
with the songs of the birds and the perfume of the flowers. Around the great basin were silken
cushions on which the Prince reclined, and the goldfish that were swimming in the basin came
up to him to be fed. There also came the ruby fish, that shines as red as blood, and the zimphare,
or transparent fish, which is as colorless as the water, and can only be discovered by a green
knot on its head and another on its tail.

There were also many other fish, as the balance-fish, which comes up to the top of the water
equally balanced, having at each end of its body expansions like the pans of scales. These
are its mouths, and if one puts a crumb into one of them without having put one into the other,
it turns right over, and sinks to the bottom. So, when this fish is properly fed, it always
gets two crumbs at a time. Then there was the gelatine fish, that has no mouth at all, but
is very soft and pulpy, and all that is necessary is to drop some crumbs upon his back, and
they immediately soak in. Also the great flob was there, who came clattering and clanking up
from the bottom of the basin, with his hard shells and heavy claws, as if he was the greatest
fish alive. But for all that he opened his mouth so wide, and shut it upon a little crumb with
a snap loud enough for a loaf of bread, his throat was so small that that little crumb nearly
choked him. All these fishes the Prince fed from golden baskets filled with crumbs, and placed
around the basin for the convenience of those who wished to amuse themselves by feeding the
fish. When he was tired of this sport, he rose and entered the palace again by another door.
He had not walked far along an alabaster corridor, before he saw a door open, and an old woman
come out. She had in her hand a silver waiter, on which was the remains of a delicious little
supper, the scent of which seemed so charming to the Prince that it made him feel as hungry
as a bear in the springtime. The old woman, who was busy munching some of the pieces of cake,
and sucking the bones of the little birds that were left, did not notice him; and, hoping to
find some more good things where these came from, he slipped in at the door, before the old
woman shut it, and entered a large and beautiful room, lighted by a single lamp that hung from
the ceiling. At the upper end of this apartment, he was surprised to see a beautiful young
Princess, who was sitting in an arm-chair, fast asleep, with a guitar on the floor at her feet.
Around the room were placed musical instruments of all kinds; but there was no one there to
play on them but the Princess, and she was fast asleep.

There was a breeze in the room, that seemed to come and go like the waves of the sea; and the
Prince could not imagine what occasioned it, for all the doors and windows were closed. However,
looking upwards, he saw, behind the Princess's chair, the reason of the wind and the lady's
slumber. Standing behind her, with his feet on the floor and his head high up in the obscurity
of the ceiling, was a great Nimshee, or evil spirit of the ocean, who was fanning her with
his wings, and had put her to sleep with their slow and dreamy motion. With his great eyes
glowing like meteors in the dimness of the upper part of the room, the Nimshee glared at the
Prince, and waved his wings faster and stronger. But our young friend was not afraid of him--not
a bit. He walked softly round the room once or twice, and then, returning to the Princess,
spoke to her. She did not awake, and the Prince called her louder and louder, and at last,
putting his hand on her shoulder, he shook her; but still she slept. He felt that he must awaken
her, and seizing the guitar that lay at her feet, he held it close to her ear, and struck the
strings loudly. The Princess opened her eyes with a start; and as she awoke, the Nimshee, beating
his breast with his wings, gave a great roar like the waves beating in a storm against a rocky
coast, and flew away. The Princess blushed a little when she first saw the Prince, but he was
so polite that she soon recovered herself, and they conversed quite pleasantly.

