ZOE

BY THE AUTHOR OF

'LADDIE,' 'DON,' 'POMONA,' 'BELLE,' 'PHOEBE'S HERO,' 'MISS TOOSEY'S MISSION,' 'TIP CAT,' ETC.

LONDON: 38 Soho Square. W.1

W. & R. CHAMBERS, LIMITED

EDINBURGH: 339 High Street

1890

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I.

The Christening--An Outlandish Name--The Organist's Mistake--Farm-work--Tom and Bill--The Baby--Baby
and All

CHAPTER II.

Mr Robins--Village Choirs--Edith--An Elopement--A Father's Sorrow--An Unhappy Pair--The Wanderer's
Return--Father!--A Daughter's Entreater--No Favourable Answer--A Sleepless Pillow

CHAPTER III.

Something on the Doorstep--Bill Gray--Is That a Cat?--She's Like Mother--A Baby's Shoe--Jane
Restless

CHAPTER IV.

Village Evidence--'Gray' on the Brain--Too Well He Knew--Mr Robins and the Baby--He Had Not
Done Badly

CHAPTER V.

Jane Hard at Work--Clothes for the Baby--Jane Returns--Jane Singing over her Work--Jane's Selfish
Absorption--For a Poor Person's Child--The Organist in Church

CHAPTER VI.

The Good Baby--Mr Robins Comes and Goes--A Secret Power--Mr Robins Happy--A Naughty Tiresome
Gal!--The Gypsy Child

CHAPTER VII.

Gray Taken to the Hospital--Bill and the Baby--Mrs Gray Home Again--Edith, Come Home!

CHAPTER VIII.

Preparation--The Room Furnished--Mrs Gray at Work--The Baby Gone--The Gypsy Mother--The Gypsy's
Story--A Foolish Fancy--Something Has Happened--The Real Baby

ZOE.  There were two other babies also brought that afternoon, one of which was crying lustily,
so that it was not easy to hear what the sponsors answered; and, moreover, the officiating
clergyman was a young man, and the prospect of holding that screaming, red-faced, little object
made him too nervous and anxious to get done with it to stop and make further inquiries.

The woman who returned this undecided answer was an elderly woman, with a kind, sunburnt, honest
face, very much heated just now, and embarrassed too; for the baby in her arms prevented her
getting at her pocket handkerchief to wipe the perspiration from her brow and pulling her bonnet
on to its proper position on her head.  The man beside her was also greatly embarrassed, and
kept shuffling his large hob-nailed shoes together, and turning his hat round and round in
his fingers.

I think that really that hat was the chief cause of his discomfort, for he was so accustomed
to have it on his head that he could not feel quite himself without it; and, indeed, his wife
could hardly recognise him, as she had been accustomed to see him wearing it indoors and out
during the twenty years of their married life; pushed back for meals or smoking, but always
on his head, except in bed, and even there, report says, on cold winter nights, he had recourse
to it to keep off the draught from that cracked pane in the window.  His face, like his wife's,
was weatherbeaten, and of the same broad, flat type as hers, with small, surprised, dazzled-looking,
pale blue eyes, and a tangle of grizzled light hair under his chin.  He was noticeable for
the green smock-frock he wore, a garment which is so rapidly disappearing before the march
of civilisation, and giving place to the ill-cut, ill-made coat of shoddy cloth, which is fondly
thought to resemble the squire's.

The christening party was completed by a hobbledehoy lad of about sixteen, who tried to cover
his invincible shyness by a grin, and to keep his foolish eyes from the row of farm boys in
the aisle, whose critical glances he felt in every pore.  He was so like both father and mother,
that there was no mistaking his parentage; but when Mrs Gray took off the shepherd's-plaid
shawl in which the baby was wrapped, such a little dark head and swarthy face were exposed
to view as might have made intelligent spectators (if there were any in Downside church that
afternoon, which I doubt) reflect on the laws of heredity and reversion to original types.

'Name this child!'

The clergyman had got successfully through his business with the roaring George Augustus and
the whimpering Alberta Florence, and had now the little, quiet, brown-faced baby in his arms.
Even a young and unmarried man was fain to confess that it was an unusually pretty little face
that lay against his surplice, with a pointed chin, and more eyebrows and lashes than most
young babies possess, and with dark eyes that looked up at him with a certain intelligence,
recognisable even to an unprejudiced observer.

'Name this child!'

Mrs Gray had taken advantage of this opportunity to mop her forehead with her blue and white
pocket handkerchief, and wrestle with her bonnet's unconquerable tendency to slip off behind,
and the clergyman passed the question on to her husband, who fixed his eye on a bluebottle
buzzing in one of the windows, and jerked out what sounded like 'Joe.'

'I thought it was a girl,' whispered the clergyman.  'Joe, did you say?'

'No, it ain't that 'zactly.  Here, 'Liza, can't you tell the gentleman? You knows best what it be.'

The next attempt sounded like 'Sue,' and the clergyman suggested Susan as the name, but that
would not do.

'Zola' seemed to him, though not a reader of French novels, unsuitable, and 'Zero,' too, he
could not quite appreciate.

'I can't make it out, an outlandish sorter name!' said Gray, with a terrible inclination to
put on his hat in the excitement of the moment, only checked by a timely nudge from his wife's
elbow; 'here, ain't you got it wrote down somewheres?  Can't you show it up?'

And after a lengthened rummage in a voluminous pocket, and the production of several articles
irrelevant to the occasion--a thimble, a bit of ginger, and part of a tract--Mrs Gray brought
to light a piece of paper, on which was written the name 'Zoe.'

'Zoe, I baptise thee'----

A sudden crash on the organ-pedals followed these words.  Mr Robins, the organist, had, perhaps,
been asleep and let his foot slip on to the pedals, or, perhaps, he had thought there was no
wind in the instrument and that he could put his foot down with impunity.  He was plainly very
much ashamed of himself for what had happened, and it was only right that he should be, for,
of course, it made all the school children giggle, and a good many of their elders too, who
should have known better.

The boy who blew the organ declared that he turned quite red and bent his head over the keys
as if he were examining something on them, and he was evidently nervous and upset, for he made
ever so many mistakes in the concluding parts of the service, and, to the great surprise and
to the satisfaction of the blower, cut the voluntary at the end unusually short, ending it
in an abrupt and discordant way, which, I am sorry to say, the blower described as 'a 'owl,'
though any shock that the boy's musical taste sustained was compensated for by the feeling
that he would be at home at least ten minutes earlier than usual to tea.

Now it so happened that Mr Robins was in the vestry when the christening party came in to give
the particulars about the babies to be entered in the register.  He had come to fetch a music-book,
which, however, it appeared after all had been left at home; but the clergyman was glad of
his help in making out the story of the little Zoe who had just been baptised.

I have spoken before of intelligent observers noticing and drawing arguments from the entire
want of likeness between Zoe and her parents; but all the observers on this occasion whether
intelligent or not, with the exception of the officiating clergyman, were quite aware that
Zoe was not the Grays' baby, but was a foundling child picked up one night by Gray in his garden.

Of her antecedents nothing was known, and, of course, any sensible people would have sent her
to the workhouse--every one agreed on this point and told the Grays so; and yet, I think, half
the women who were so positive and severe on Mrs Gray's folly would have done just the same.

We do not half of us know how kind-hearted we are till we are tried, or perhaps it is our foolishness
that we do not realise.

Gray was only a labourer with twelve shillings a week and a couple of pounds more at harvest;
and, of course, in bad weather there was no work and no wages, which is the rule among the
agricultural labourers about Downside, as in many other parts, so did not present itself as
a grievance to Gray's mind, though, to be sure, in winter or wet seasons it was a hard matter
to get along.  But it was neighbours' fare, and none of them felt hardly used, for Farmer Benson,
what with bad seasons and cattle plague, was not much better off than they were, and the men
knew it.

But out of these wages it was hardly to be expected of the most provident of people that anything
could be laid by for old age or a rainy day; indeed, there seemed so many rainy days in the
present that it was not easy to give much thought to those in the future.  Of course too the
local provident club had come to utter and hopeless grief.  Is there any country place where
this has not been the case?  Gray had paid into it regularly for years and had gone every Whitmonday
to its dinner, his one voluntary holiday during the year, on which occasion he took too much
beer as a sort of solemn duty connected with his membership.  When it collapsed he was too
old to join another club, and so was left stranded.  He bore it very philosophically; indeed,
I think it was only on Whitmonday that he felt it at all, as it seemed strange and unnatural
to go to bed quite sober on that day, as he did on all other days of the year.

On all other occasions he was a thoroughly sober man, perhaps, however, more from necessity
than choice, as the beer supplied by Farmer Benson in the hayfield was of a quality on which,
as the men said, you got 'no forrarder' if you drank a hogshead, and Gray had no money to spare
from the necessaries of life to spend on luxury, even the luxury of getting drunk.

He was in one way better off than his neighbours from a worldly point of view, in that he had
not a large family as most of them were blessed with; for children are a blessing, a gift and
heritage that cometh of the Lord, even when they cluster round a cold hearth and a scanty board.
But Gray had only two sons, the elder of whom, Tom, we have seen at Zoe's christening, and
who had been at work four years, having managed at twelve to scramble into the fifth standard,
and at once left school triumphantly, and now can neither read nor write, having clean forgotten
everything drummed into his head, but earns three shillings and sixpence a week going along
with Farmer Benson's horses, from five o'clock in the morning till six in the evening, the
long wet furrows and heavy ploughed land having made havoc of his legs, as such work does with
most plough-boys.

The younger boy, Bill, is six years younger and still at school, and having been a delicate
child, or as his mother puts it, 'enjoying bad health,' is not promising for farm-work, and,
being fond of his book and a favourite at school, his mother cherishes hopes of his becoming
a school-teacher in days to come.

But such is the perversity of human nature, that though many a Downside mother with a family
of little steps envied Mrs Gray her compact family and the small amount of washing attached
to it, that ungrateful woman yearned after an occupant for the old wooden cradle, and treasured
up the bits of baby things that had belonged to Tom and Bill, and nursed up any young thing
that came to hand and wanted care, bringing up a motherless blind kitten with assiduous care
and patience, as if the supply of that commodity was not always largely in excess of the demand,
and lavishing more care on a sick lamb or a superfluous young pig than most of the neighbours'
babies received.

So when one evening in May, Gray came in holding a bundle in his arms and poked it into her
lap as she sat darning the holes in Tom's stockings (she was not good at needlework, but she
managed, as she said, to 'goblify' the holes), he knew pretty well that it was into no unwilling
arms that he gave the baby.

'And a mercy it was as the darning-needle didn't run right into the little angel,' Mrs Gray
always said in recounting the story.

He had been down to the village to fetch some tobacco, for the Grays' cottage was right away
from the village, up a lane leading on to the hillside, and there were no other cottages near.
Tom was in bed, though it was not eight yet--but he was generally ready for bed when he had
had his tea; and Bill was up on the hill, a favourite resort of his, and especially when it
was growing dark and the great indigo sky spread over him, with the glory of the stars coming out.

'He never were like other lads,' his mother used to say with a mixture of pride and irritation;
'always mooning about by himself on them old hills.'

The cottage door stood open as it always did, and Mrs Gray sat there, plainly to be seen from
the lane, with Tom's gray stocking and her eyes and the tallow candle as near together as possible.
She did not hear a sound, though she was listening for Bill's return, and, even though Tom's
snores penetrated the numerous crevices in the floor above, they were hardly enough to drown
other sounds.

So there was no knowing when the bundle was laid just inside the cottage gate, not quite in
the middle of the brick path, but on one side against the box edging, where a clump of daffodils
nodded their graceful heads over the dark velvet polyanthus in the border.  Gray nearly stepped
upon the bundle, having large feet, and the way of walking which covers a good deal of ground
to right and left, a way which plough-driving teaches.

Mrs Gray heard an exclamation.

And then Gray came in, and, as I have said, did his best to impale the bundle, baby and all,
on the top of his wife's darning-needle.

Mr Clifford the vicar was accounted very lucky by the neighbouring clergy for having such a
man, and not being exposed to all the vagaries of a young schoolmaster, or, perhaps, still
worse, schoolmistress, with all the latest musical fancies of the training colleges.  Neither
had he to grapple with the tyranny of the leading bass nor the conceit and touchiness that
seems inseparable from the tenor voice, since Mr Robins kept a firm and sensible hand on the
reins, and drove that generally unmanageable team, a village choir, with the greatest discretion.

But when Mr Clifford was complimented by his friends on the possession of such a treasure,
he accepted their remarks a little doubtfully, being sometimes inclined to think that he would
almost rather have had a less excellent choir and have had some slight voice in the matter himself.

Mr Robins imported a certain solemnity into the musical matters of Downside, which of course
was very desirable as far as the church services were concerned; but when it came to penny-readings
and village concerts, Mr Clifford and some of the parishioners were disposed to envy the pleasant
ease of such festivities in other parishes, where, though the music was very inferior, the
enjoyment of both performers and audience was far greater.

Mr Robins, for one thing, set his face steadily against comic songs; and Mr Clifford in his
inmost heart had an ungratified ambition to sing a certain song, called 'The Three Little Pigs,'
with which Mr Wilson in the next parish simply brought down the house on several occasions;
though Mr Clifford felt he by no means did full justice to it, especially in the part where
the old mother 'waddled about, saying "Umph! umph! umph!" while the little ones said "Wee!
wee!"'  To be sure Mr Wilson suffered for months after these performances from outbursts of
grunting among his youthful parishioners at sight of him, and even at the Sunday-school one
audacious boy had given vent on one occasion to an 'umph!' very true indeed to nature, but
not conducive to good behaviour in his class.  But Mr Clifford did not know the after effects
of Mr Wilson's vocal success.

Likewise Mr Robins selected very simple music, and yet exacted an amount of practising unheard
of at Bilton or Stokeley, where, after one or two attempts, they felt competent to face a crowded
schoolroom, and yell or growl out such choruses as 'The Heavens are telling' or 'The Hallelujah
Chorus,' with a lofty indifference to tune or time, and with their respective schoolmasters
banging away at the accompaniment, within a bar or two of the singers, all feeling quite satisfied
if they finished up altogether on the concluding chord or thereabouts, flushed and triumphant,
with perspiration standing on their foreheads, and an expression of honest pride on their faces,
as much as to say, 'There's for you.  What do you think of that?'

If success is to be measured by applause, there is no doubt these performances were most successful,
far more so than the accurately rendered 'Hardy Norseman' or 'Men of Harlech' at Downside,
in which lights and shades, pianos and fortes were carefully observed, and any attempt on anyone's
part, even the tenors, to distinguish themselves above the others was instantly suppressed.
The result, from a musical point of view, was no doubt satisfactory; but the applause was of
a very moderate character, and never accompanied by those vociferous 'angcores,' which are
so truly gratifying to the soul of musical artistes.

Mr Robins was a middle-aged man, looking older than he really was, as his hair was quite white.
He had some small independent means of his own, which he supplemented by his small salary as
organist, and by giving a few music lessons in the neighbourhood.  He had been in his earlier
years a vicar-choral at one of the cathedrals, and had come to Downside twenty years ago, after
the death of his wife, bringing with him his little girl, in whom he was entirely wrapt up.

He spoilt her so persistently, and his housekeeper, Mrs Sands, was so gentle and meek-spirited,
that the effect on a naturally self-willed child can easily be imagined; and, as she grew up,
she became more and more uncontrollable.  She was a pretty, gypsy-looking girl, inheriting
her sweet looks from her mother, and her voice and musical taste from her father.  There was
more than one young farmer in the neighbourhood who cast admiring glances towards the corner
of the church near the organ, where the organist's pretty daughter sat, and slackened the pace
of his horse as he passed the clipped yew-hedge by the church, to catch a glimpse of her in
the bright little patch of garden, or to hear her clear sweet voice singing over her work.

But people said Mr Robins thought no one good enough for her, and though he himself had come
of humble parentage, and in no way regarded himself, nor expected to be regarded as a gentleman,
it was generally understood that no suitor except a gentleman would be acceptable for Edith.

And so it took every one by surprise, and no one more so than her father, when the girl took
up with Martin Blake, the son of the blacksmith in the next village, who might be seen most
days with a smutty face and leathern apron hammering away at the glowing red metal on the anvil.
It would have been well for him if he had only been seen thus, with the marks of honest toil
about him; but Martin Blake was too often to be seen at the 'Crown,' and often in a state that
anyone who loved him would have grieved to see; and he was always to be found at any race meetings
and steeplechases and fairs in the neighbourhood, and, report said, was by no means choice
in his company.

To be sure he was good-looking and pleasant-mannered, and had a sort of rollicking, light-hearted
way with him, which was very attractive; but still it seemed little short of infatuation on
the part of Edith Robins to take up with a man whose character was so well known, and who was
in every way her inferior in position and education.

No doubt Mr Robins was very injudicious in his treatment of her when he found out what was
going on, and as this was the first time in her life that Edith's wishes had been crossed,
it was not likely that she would yield without a struggle.  The mere fact of opposition seemed
to deepen what was at first merely an ordinary liking into an absorbing passion. It was perfectly
useless to reason with her; she disbelieved all the stories to his discredit, which were abundant,
and treated those who repeated them as prejudiced and ill-natured.

It was in vain that Mr Robins by turns entreated and commanded her to give him up, her father's
distress or anger alike seemed indifferent to her; and when he forbade Martin to come near
the place, and kept her as much as possible under his eye to prevent meetings between them,
it only roused in her a more obstinate determination to have her own way in spite of him. 
She was missing one morning from the little bedroom which Mrs Sands loved to keep as dainty
and pretty as a lady's, and from the garden where the roses and geraniums did such credit to
her care, and from her place in the little church where her prayer-book still lay on the desk
as she had left it the day before.

She had gone off with Martin Blake to London, without a word of sorrow or farewell to the father
who had been so foolishly fond of her, or to the home where her happy petted childhood had
passed.  It nearly broke her father's heart; it made an old man of him and turned his hair
white, and it seemed to freeze or petrify all his kindliness and human sympathy.

He was a proud, reserved man, and could not bear the pity that every one felt for him, or endure
the well-meant but injudicious condolences, mixed with 'I told you so,' and 'I 've thought
for a long time,' which the neighbours were so liberal with.  Even Mr Clifford's attempts at
consolation he could hardly bring himself to listen to courteously, and Jane Sands' tearful
eyes and quivering voice irritated him beyond all endurance.  If there had been anyone to whom
he could have talked unrestrainedly and let out all the pent-up disappointment and wounded
love and tortured pride that surged and boiled within him, he might have got through it better,
or rather it might have raised him, as rightly borne troubles do, above his poor, little, pitiful
self, and nearer to God; but this was just what he could not do.

He came nearest it sometimes in those long evenings of organ playing, of the length of which
poor little Jack Davis, the blower, so bitterly complained, when the long sad notes wailed
and sobbed through the little church like the voice of a weary, sick soul making its complaint.
But even so he could not tell it all to God, though he had been given that power of expression
in music, which must make it easier to those so gifted to cry unto the Lord.

But the music wailed itself into silence, and Jack in his corner by the bellows waited terror-struck
at the 'unked' sounds and the darkening church, till he ventured at last to ask: 'Be I to blow,
mister?  I 'm kinder skeered like.'

So the organist's trouble turned him bitter and hard, and changed his love for his daughter
into cold resentment; he would not have her name mentioned in his presence, and he refused
to open a letter she sent him a few weeks after her marriage, and bid Jane Sands send it back
if she knew the address of the person who sent it.

On her side, Edith was quite as obstinate and resentful.  She had no idea of humbling herself
and asking pardon.  She thought she had quite a right to do as she liked, and she believed
her father would be too unhappy without her to bear the separation long.  She very soon found
out the mistake she had made--indeed, even in the midst of her infatuation about Martin Blake,
I think there lurked a certain distrust of him, and they had not been married many weeks--I
might almost say days--before this distrust was more than realised.

His feelings towards her, too, had been mere flattered vanity at being preferred by such a
superior sort of girl than any deeper feeling, and vanity is not a sufficiently lasting foundation
for married happiness, especially when the cold winds of poverty blow on the edifice, and when
the superior sort of girl has not been brought up to anything useful, and cannot cook the dinner,
or iron a shirt, or keep the house tidy.

When his father, the old blacksmith at Bilton, died six months after they were married, Martin
wished to come back and take up the work there, more especially as work was hard to get in
London and living dear; but Edith would not hear of it, and opposed it so violently that she
got her way, though Martin afterwards maintained that this decision was the ruin of him, occasionally
dating his ruin six months earlier, from his wedding.  Perhaps he was right, and he might have
settled down steadily in the old home and among the old neighbours in spite of his fine-lady
wife; but when he said so, Edith was quick to remember and cast up at him the stories which
she had disbelieved and ignored before, to prove in their constant wranglings that place and
neighbourhood had nothing to do with his idleness and unsteadiness.  No one ever heard much
of these five years in London, for Edith wrote no more after that letter was returned.

Those five years made little difference at Downside, except in Mr Robins' white hair and set
lined face; the little house behind the yew-hedge looked just the same, and Jane Sands' kind,
placid face was still as kind and placid.  Some of the girls had left school and gone to service;
some of the lads had developed into hobbledehoys and came to church with walking-sticks and
well-oiled hair; one or two of the old folks had died; one or two more white-headed babies
crawled about the cottage floors; but otherwise Downside was just the same as it had been five
years before, when, one June morning, a self-willed girl had softly opened the door under the
honeysuckle porch and stepped out into the dewy garden, where the birds were calling such a
glad good-morning as she passed to join her lover in the lane.

But the flame of life burns quicker and fiercer in London than at Downside, for that same girl,
coming back after only five years in London, was so changed and aged and altered that--though,
to be sure, she came in the dusk and was muffled up in a big shawl--no one recognised her,
or thought for a moment of pretty, coquettish, well-dressed Edith Robins, when the weary, shabby-looking
woman passed them by.  She had lingered a minute or two by the churchyard gate, though tramps,
for such her worn-out boots and muddy skirts proclaimed her, do not, as a rule, care for such
music as sounded out from the church door, where Mr Robins was consoling himself for the irritation
of choir-practice by ten minutes' playing.  It was soon over, and Jack Davis, still blower,
and not much taller than he was five years before, charged out in the rebound from the tension
of long blowing, and nearly knocked over the woman standing by the churchyard gate in the shadow
of the yew-tree, and made the baby she held in her arms give a feeble cry.

'Now then, out of the way!' he shouted in that unnecessarily loud voice boys assume after church,
perhaps to try if their lungs are still capable of producing such a noise after enforced silence.

The woman made no answer, but after the boy had run off, went in and waited in the porch till
the sound of turning keys announced that the organist was closing the organ and church for
the night.  But as his footsteps drew near on the stone pavement she started and trembled as
if she had been afraid, and when he came out into the porch she shrank away into the shadow
as if she wished to be unobserved.  He might easily have passed her, for it was nearly dark
from the yew-tree and the row of elms that shut out, the western sky, where the sunset was
just dying away.  His mind, too, was occupied with other things, and he was humming over the
verse of a hymn the boys had been singing--'Far from my heavenly home.'  There was no drilling
into them the proper rendering of the last pathetic words--

  O guide me through the desert here,
    And bring me home at last.

He quite started when a hand was laid upon his arm, and a voice, changed indeed, and weak,
but still the voice that in old days--not so very old either--was the one voice for him in
all the world, said: 'Father!'

I think just for one minute his impulse was to take her in his arms and forget the ingratitude
and desertion and deceit, like the father in the parable whose heart went out to the poor prodigal
while he was yet a long way off; but the next moment the cold, bitter, resentful feelings quenched
the gentler impulse, and he drew away his arm from her detaining hold, and passed on along
the flagged path as if he were unconscious of her presence, and this on the very threshold
of His house, who so pitifully forgives the debts of His servants, forasmuch as they have not
to pay.

But he had not reached the churchyard gate before she was at his side again.

'Stop,' she said; 'you must hear me.  It's not for my own sake, it's the child.  It's a little
girl; the others were boys, and I didn't mind so much; if they 'd grown up, they might have
got on somehow--but there! they 're safe anyhow--both of them in one week,' wailed the mother's
voice, protesting against her own words that she did not mind about them.  'But this is a girl,
and not a bit like him.  She 's like me, and you used to say I was like mother.  She's like
mother, I 'm sure she is.  There, just look at her.  It's so dark, but you can see even by
this light that she's not like the Blakes.'  She was fumbling to draw back the shawl from the
baby's head with her disengaged hand, while with the other she still held a grip on his arm
that was almost painful in its pressure; but he stood doggedly with his head turned away, and
gave no sign of hearing what she said.

'He left me six months ago,' she went on, 'and I 've struggled along somehow.  I don't want
ever to see him again.  They say he's gone to America, but I don't care.  I don't mind starving
myself, but it's the little girl--Oh!  I 've not come to ask you to take me in, though it wouldn't
be for long,' and a wretched, hollow cough that had interrupted her words once or twice before,
broke in now as if to confirm what she said; 'if you'd just take the child.  She's a dear little
thing, and not old enough at two months to have learnt any harm, and Jane Sands would be good
to her, I know she would, for the sake of old times.  And I'll go away and never come near
to trouble you again--I 'll promise it.  Oh! just look at her!  If it wasn't so dark you'd
see she was like mother.  Why, you can feel the likeness if you just put your hand on her little
face; often in the night I 've felt it, and I never did with the boys.  She's very good, and
she's too little to fret after me, bless her!--and she 'll never know anything about me, and
needn't even know she has a father, and he 's not ever likely to trouble himself about her.'

