I hardly think that any Socialist, nowadays, would seriously propose that an inspector should
call every morning at each house to see that each citizen rose up and did manual labour for
eight hours.  Humanity has got beyond that stage, and reserves such a form of life for the
people whom, in a very arbitrary manner, it chooses to call criminals.  But I confess that
many of the socialistic views that I have come across seem to me to be tainted with ideas of
authority, if not of actual compulsion.  Of course, authority and compulsion are out of the
question.  All association must be quite voluntary.  It is only in voluntary associations that
man is fine.

But it may be asked how Individualism, which is now more or less dependent on the existence
of private property for its development, will benefit by the abolition of such private property.
The answer is very simple.  It is true that, under existing conditions, a few men who have
had private means of their own, such as Byron, Shelley, Browning, Victor Hugo, Baudelaire,
and others, have been able to realise their personality more or less completely.  Not one of
these men ever did a single day's work for hire.  They were relieved from poverty.  They had
an immense advantage.  The question is whether it would be for the good of Individualism that
such an advantage should be taken away.  Let us suppose that it is taken away.  What happens
then to Individualism?  How will it benefit?

It will benefit in this way.  Under the new conditions Individualism will be far freer, far
finer, and far more intensified than it is now.  I am not talking of the great imaginatively-realised
Individualism of such poets as I have mentioned, but of the great actual Individualism latent
and potential in mankind generally.  For the recognition of private property has really harmed
Individualism, and obscured it, by confusing a man with what he possesses.  It has led Individualism
entirely astray.  It has made gain not growth its aim.  So that man thought that the important
thing was to have, and did not know that the important thing is to be.  The true perfection
of man lies, not in what man has, but in what man is.

Private property has crushed true Individualism, and set up an Individualism that is false.
It has debarred one part of the community from being individual by starving them.  It has debarred
the other part of the community from being individual by putting them on the wrong road, and
encumbering them.  Indeed, so completely has man's personality been absorbed by his possessions
that the English law has always treated offences against a man's property with far more severity
than offences against his person, and property is still the test of complete citizenship. 
The industry necessary for the making money is also very demoralising. In a community like
ours, where property confers immense distinction, social position, honour, respect, titles,
and other pleasant things of the kind, man, being naturally ambitious, makes it his aim to
accumulate this property, and goes on wearily and tediously accumulating it long after he has
got far more than he wants, or can use, or enjoy, or perhaps even know of.  Man will kill himself
by overwork in order to secure property, and really, considering the enormous advantages that
property brings, one is hardly surprised.  One's regret is that society should be constructed
on such a basis that man has been forced into a groove in which he cannot freely develop what
is wonderful, and fascinating, and delightful in him--in which, in fact, he misses the true
pleasure and joy of living.  He is also, under existing conditions, very insecure.  An enormously
wealthy merchant may be-- often is--at every moment of his life at the mercy of things that
are not under his control.  If the wind blows an extra point or so, or the weather suddenly
changes, or some trivial thing happens, his ship may go down, his speculations may go wrong,
and he finds himself a poor man, with his social position quite gone.  Now, nothing should
be able to harm a man except himself.  Nothing should be able to rob a man at all.  What a
man really has, is what is in him.  What is outside of him should be a matter of no importance.

With the abolition of private property, then, we shall have true, beautiful, healthy Individualism.
Nobody will waste his life in accumulating things, and the symbols for things.  One will live.
To live is the rarest thing in the world.  Most people exist, that is all.

It is a question whether we have ever seen the full expression of a personality, except on
the imaginative plane of art.  In action, we never have.  Caesar, says Mommsen, was the complete
and perfect man.  But how tragically insecure was Caesar!  Wherever there is a man who exercises
authority, there is a man who resists authority. Caesar was very perfect, but his perfection
travelled by too dangerous a road.  Marcus Aurelius was the perfect man, says Renan. Yes; the
great emperor was a perfect man.  But how intolerable were the endless claims upon him!  He
staggered under the burden of the empire.  He was conscious how inadequate one man was to bear
the weight of that Titan and too vast orb.  What I mean by a perfect man is one who develops
under perfect conditions; one who is not wounded, or worried or maimed, or in danger.  Most
personalities have been obliged to be rebels.  Half their strength has been wasted in friction.
Byron's personality, for instance, was terribly wasted in its battle with the stupidity, and
hypocrisy, and Philistinism of the English.  Such battles do not always intensify strength:
they often exaggerate weakness.  Byron was never able to give us what he might have given us.
Shelley escaped better.  Like Byron, he got out of England as soon as possible. But he was
not so well known.  If the English had had any idea of what a great poet he really was, they
would have fallen on him with tooth and nail, and made his life as unbearable to him as they
possibly could.  But he was not a remarkable figure in society, and consequently he escaped,
to a certain degree.  Still, even in Shelley the note of rebellion is sometimes too strong.
The note of the perfect personality is not rebellion, but peace.

It will be a marvellous thing--the true personality of man--when we see it.  It will grow naturally
and simply, flowerlike, or as a tree grows.  It will not be at discord.  It will never argue
or dispute.  It will not prove things.  It will know everything.  And yet it will not busy
itself about knowledge.  It will have wisdom. Its value will not be measured by material things.
It will have nothing.  And yet it will have everything, and whatever one takes from it, it
will still have, so rich will it be.  It will not be always meddling with others, or asking
them to be like itself.  It will love them because they will be different.  And yet while it
will not meddle with others, it will help all, as a beautiful thing helps us, by being what
it is.  The personality of man will be very wonderful.  It will be as wonderful as the personality
of a child.

In its development it will be assisted by Christianity, if men desire that; but if men do not
desire that, it will develop none the less surely.  For it will not worry itself about the
past, nor care whether things happened or did not happen.  Nor will it admit any laws but its
own laws; nor any authority but its own authority. Yet it will love those who sought to intensify
it, and speak often of them.  And of these Christ was one.

'Know thyself' was written over the portal of the antique world. Over the portal of the new
world, 'Be thyself' shall be written. And the message of Christ to man was simply 'Be thyself.'
That is the secret of Christ.

When Jesus talks about the poor he simply means personalities, just as when he talks about
the rich he simply means people who have not developed their personalities.  Jesus moved in
a community that allowed the accumulation of private property just as ours does, and the gospel
that he preached was not that in such a community it is an advantage for a man to live on scanty,
unwholesome food, to wear ragged, unwholesome clothes, to sleep in horrid, unwholesome dwellings,
and a disadvantage for a man to live under healthy, pleasant, and decent conditions.  Such
a view would have been wrong there and then, and would, of course, be still more wrong now
and in England; for as man moves northward the material necessities of life become of more
vital importance, and our society is infinitely more complex, and displays far greater extremes
of luxury and pauperism than any society of the antique world.  What Jesus meant, was this.
He said to man, 'You have a wonderful personality. Develop it.  Be yourself.  Don't imagine
that your perfection lies in accumulating or possessing external things.  Your affection is
inside of you.  If only you could realise that, you would not want to be rich.  Ordinary riches
can be stolen from a man.  Real riches cannot.  In the treasury-house of your soul, there are
infinitely precious things, that may not be taken from you.  And so, try to so shape your life
that external things will not harm you.  And try also to get rid of personal property.  It
involves sordid preoccupation, endless industry, continual wrong.  Personal property hinders
Individualism at every step.'  It is to be noted that Jesus never says that impoverished people
are necessarily good, or wealthy people necessarily bad.  That would not have been true.  Wealthy
people are, as a class, better than impoverished people, more moral, more intellectual, more
well-behaved.  There is only one class in the community that thinks more about money than the
rich, and that is the poor.  The poor can think of nothing else.  That is the misery of being
poor.  What Jesus does say is that man reaches his perfection, not through what he has, not
even through what he does, but entirely through what he is.  And so the wealthy young man who
comes to Jesus is represented as a thoroughly good citizen, who has broken none of the laws
of his state, none of the commandments of his religion.  He is quite respectable, in the ordinary
sense of that extraordinary word.  Jesus says to him, 'You should give up private property.
It hinders you from realising your perfection.  It is a drag upon you.  It is a burden.  Your
personality does not need it.  It is within you, and not outside of you, that you will find
what you really are, and what you really want.'  To his own friends he says the same thing.
He tells them to be themselves, and not to be always worrying about other things. What do other
things matter?  Man is complete in himself.  When they go into the world, the world will disagree
with them.  That is inevitable.  The world hates Individualism.  But that is not to trouble
them.  They are to be calm and self-centred.  If a man takes their cloak, they are to give
him their coat, just to show that material things are of no importance.  If people abuse them,
they are not to answer back.  What does it signify?  The things people say of a man do not
alter a man.  He is what he is.  Public opinion is of no value whatsoever.  Even if people
employ actual violence, they are not to be violent in turn.  That would be to fall to the same
low level.  After all, even in prison, a man can be quite free.  His soul can be free.  His
personality can be untroubled.  He can be at peace.  And, above all things, they are not to
interfere with other people or judge them in any way. Personality is a very mysterious thing.
A man cannot always be estimated by what he does.  He may keep the law, and yet be worthless.
He may break the law, and yet be fine.  He may be bad, without ever doing anything bad.  He
may commit a sin against society, and yet realise through that sin his true perfection.

There was a woman who was taken in adultery.  We are not told the history of her love, but
that love must have been very great; for Jesus said that her sins were forgiven her, not because
she repented, but because her love was so intense and wonderful.  Later on, a short time before
his death, as he sat at a feast, the woman came in and poured costly perfumes on his hair.
His friends tried to interfere with her, and said that it was an extravagance, and that the
money that the perfume cost should have been expended on charitable relief of people in want,
or something of that kind. Jesus did not accept that view.  He pointed out that the material
needs of Man were great and very permanent, but that the spiritual needs of Man were greater
still, and that in one divine moment, and by selecting its own mode of expression, a personality
might make itself perfect.  The world worships the woman, even now, as a saint.

Yes; there are suggestive things in Individualism.  Individualism accepts this and makes it
fine.  It converts the abolition of legal restraint into a form of freedom that will help the
full development of personality, and make the love of man and woman more wonderful, more beautiful,
and more ennobling.  Jesus knew this.  He rejected the claims of family life, although they
existed in his day and community in a very marked form.  'Who is my mother?  Who are my brothers?'
he said, when he was told that they wished to speak to him.  When one of his followers asked
leave to go and bury his father, 'Let the dead bury the dead,' was his terrible answer.  He
would allow no claim whatsoever to be made on personality.

And so he who would lead a Christlike life is he who is perfectly and absolutely himself. 
He may be a great poet, or a great man of science; or a young student at a University, or one
who watches sheep upon a moor; or a maker of dramas, like Shakespeare, or a thinker about God,
like Spinoza; or a child who plays in a garden, or a fisherman who throws his net into the
sea.  It does not matter what he is, as long as he realises the perfection of the soul that
is within him.  All imitation in morals and in life is wrong. Through the streets of Jerusalem
at the present day crawls one who is mad and carries a wooden cross on his shoulders.  He is
a symbol of the lives that are marred by imitation.  Father Damien was Christlike when he went
out to live with the lepers, because in such service he realised fully what was best in him.
But he was not more Christlike than Wagner when he realised his soul in music; or than Shelley,
when he realised his soul in song.  There is no one type for man.  There are as many perfections
as there are imperfect men.  And while to the claims of charity a man may yield and yet be
free, to the claims of conformity no man may yield and remain free at all.

Individualism, then, is what through Socialism we are to attain to. As a natural result the
State must give up all idea of government. It must give it up because, as a wise man once said
many centuries before Christ, there is such a thing as leaving mankind alone; there is no such
thing as governing mankind.  All modes of government are failures.  Despotism is unjust to
everybody, including the despot, who was probably made for better things. Oligarchies are unjust
to the many, and ochlocracies are unjust to the few.  I must say that it was high time, for
all authority is quite degrading.  It degrades those who exercise it, and degrades those over
whom it is exercised.  When it is violently, grossly, and cruelly used, it produces a good
effect, by creating, or at any rate bringing out, the spirit of revolt and Individualism that
is to kill it.  When it is used with a certain amount of kindness, and accompanied by prizes
and rewards, it is dreadfully demoralising.  People, in that case, are less conscious of the
horrible pressure that is being put on them, and so go through their lives in a sort of coarse
comfort, like petted animals, without ever realising that they are probably thinking other
people's thoughts, living by other people's standards, wearing practically what one may call
other people's second-hand clothes, and never being themselves for a single moment.  'He who
would be free,' says a fine thinker, 'must not conform.'  And authority, by bribing people
to conform, produces a very gross kind of over-fed barbarism amongst us.

With authority, punishment will pass away.  This will be a great gain--a gain, in fact, of
incalculable value.  As one reads history, not in the expurgated editions written for school-boys
and passmen, but in the original authorities of each time, one is absolutely sickened, not
by the crimes that the wicked have committed, but by the punishments that the good have inflicted;
and a community is infinitely more brutalised by the habitual employment of punishment, than
it is by the occurrence of crime. It obviously follows that the more punishment is inflicted
the more crime is produced, and most modern legislation has clearly recognised this, and has
made it its task to diminish punishment as far as it thinks it can.  Wherever it has really
diminished it, the results have always been extremely good.  The less punishment, the less
crime.  When there is no punishment at all, crime will either cease to exist, or, if it occurs,
will be treated by physicians as a very distressing form of dementia, to be cured by care and
kindness.  For what are called criminals nowadays are not criminals at all.  Starvation, and
not sin, is the parent of modern crime. That indeed is the reason why our criminals are, as
a class, so absolutely uninteresting from any psychological point of view. They are not marvellous
Macbeths and terrible Vautrins.  They are merely what ordinary, respectable, commonplace people
would be if they had not got enough to eat.  When private property is abolished there will
be no necessity for crime, no demand for it; it will cease to exist.  Of course, all crimes
are not crimes against property, though such are the crimes that the English law, valuing what
a man has more than what a man is, punishes with the harshest and most horrible severity, if
we except the crime of murder, and regard death as worse than penal servitude, a point on which
our criminals, I believe, disagree.  But though a crime may not be against property, it may
spring from the misery and rage and depression produced by our wrong system of property-holding,
and so, when that system is abolished, will disappear.  When each member of the community has
sufficient for his wants, and is not interfered with by his neighbour, it will not be an object
of any interest to him to interfere with anyone else.  Jealousy, which is an extraordinary
source of crime in modern life, is an emotion closely bound up with our conceptions of property,
and under Socialism and Individualism will die out.  It is remarkable that in communistic tribes
jealousy is entirely unknown.

Now as the State is not to govern, it may be asked what the State is to do.  The State is to
be a voluntary association that will organise labour, and be the manufacturer and distributor
of necessary commodities.  The State is to make what is useful.  The individual is to make
what is beautiful.  And as I have mentioned the word labour, I cannot help saying that a great
deal of nonsense is being written and talked nowadays about the dignity of manual labour. 
There is nothing necessarily dignified about manual labour at all, and most of it is absolutely
degrading.  It is mentally and morally injurious to man to do anything in which he does not
find pleasure, and many forms of labour are quite pleasureless activities, and should be regarded
as such.  To sweep a slushy crossing for eight hours, on a day when the east wind is blowing
is a disgusting occupation.  To sweep it with mental, moral, or physical dignity seems to me
to be impossible.  To sweep it with joy would be appalling.  Man is made for something better
than disturbing dirt.  All work of that kind should be done by a machine.

And I have no doubt that it will be so.  Up to the present, man has been, to a certain extent,
the slave of machinery, and there is something tragic in the fact that as soon as man had invented
a machine to do his work he began to starve.  This, however, is, of course, the result of our
property system and our system of competition.  One man owns a machine which does the work
of five hundred men.  Five hundred men are, in consequence, thrown out of employment, and,
having no work to do, become hungry and take to thieving.  The one man secures the produce
of the machine and keeps it, and has five hundred times as much as he should have, and probably,
which is of much more importance, a great deal more than he really wants.  Were that machine
the property of all, every one would benefit by it.  It would be an immense advantage to the
community.  All unintellectual labour, all monotonous, dull labour, all labour that deals with
dreadful things, and involves unpleasant conditions, must be done by machinery.  Machinery
must work for us in coal mines, and do all sanitary services, and be the stoker of steamers,
and clean the streets, and run messages on wet days, and do anything that is tedious or distressing.
At present machinery competes against man.  Under proper conditions machinery will serve man.
There is no doubt at all that this is the future of machinery, and just as trees grow while
the country gentleman is asleep, so while Humanity will be amusing itself, or enjoying cultivated
leisure--which, and not labour, is the aim of man--or making beautiful things, or reading beautiful
things, or simply contemplating the world with admiration and delight, machinery will be doing
all the necessary and unpleasant work.  The fact is, that civilisation requires slaves.  The
Greeks were quite right there. Unless there are slaves to do the ugly, horrible, uninteresting
work, culture and contemplation become almost impossible.  Human slavery is wrong, insecure,
and demoralising.  On mechanical slavery, on the slavery of the machine, the future of the
world depends.  And when scientific men are no longer called upon to go down to a depressing
East End and distribute bad cocoa and worse blankets to starving people, they will have delightful
leisure in which to devise wonderful and marvellous things for their own joy and the joy of
everyone else.  There will be great storages of force for every city, and for every house if
required, and this force man will convert into heat, light, or motion, according to his needs.
Is this Utopian?  A map of the world that does not include Utopia is not worth even glancing
at, for it leaves out the one country at which Humanity is always landing.  And when Humanity
lands there, it looks out, and, seeing a better country, sets sail. Progress is the realisation
of Utopias.

Now, I have said that the community by means of organisation of machinery will supply the useful
things, and that the beautiful things will be made by the individual.  This is not merely necessary,
but it is the only possible way by which we can get either the one or the other.  An individual
who has to make things for the use of others, and with reference to their wants and their wishes,
does not work with interest, and consequently cannot put into his work what is best in him.
Upon the other hand, whenever a community or a powerful section of a community, or a government
of any kind, attempts to dictate to the artist what he is to do, Art either entirely vanishes,
or becomes stereotyped, or degenerates into a low and ignoble form of craft.  A work of art
is the unique result of a unique temperament.  Its beauty comes from the fact that the author
is what he is.  It has nothing to do with the fact that other people want what they want. 
Indeed, the moment that an artist takes notice of what other people want, and tries to supply
the demand, he ceases to be an artist, and becomes a dull or an amusing craftsman, an honest
or a dishonest tradesman.  He has no further claim to be considered as an artist.  Art is the
most intense mode of Individualism that the world has known.  I am inclined to say that it
is the only real mode of Individualism that the world has known.  Crime, which, under certain
conditions, may seem to have created Individualism, must take cognisance of other people and
interfere with them.  It belongs to the sphere of action.  But alone, without any reference
to his neighbours, without any interference, the artist can fashion a beautiful thing; and
if he does not do it solely for his own pleasure, he is not an artist at all.

And it is to be noted that it is the fact that Art is this intense form of Individualism that
makes the public try to exercise over it in an authority that is as immoral as it is ridiculous,
and as corrupting as it is contemptible.  It is not quite their fault. The public has always,
and in every age, been badly brought up. They are continually asking Art to be popular, to
please their want of taste, to flatter their absurd vanity, to tell them what they have been
told before, to show them what they ought to be tired of seeing, to amuse them when they feel
heavy after eating too much, and to distract their thoughts when they are wearied of their
own stupidity.  Now Art should never try to be popular.  The public should try to make itself
artistic.  There is a very wide difference.  If a man of science were told that the results
of his experiments, and the conclusions that he arrived at, should be of such a character that
they would not upset the received popular notions on the subject, or disturb popular prejudice,
or hurt the sensibilities of people who knew nothing about science; if a philosopher were told
that he had a perfect right to speculate in the highest spheres of thought, provided that he
arrived at the same conclusions as were held by those who had never thought in any sphere at
all--well, nowadays the man of science and the philosopher would be considerably amused.  Yet
it is really a very few years since both philosophy and science were subjected to brutal popular
control, to authority--in fact the authority of either the general ignorance of the community,
or the terror and greed for power of an ecclesiastical or governmental class.  Of course, we
have to a very great extent got rid of any attempt on the part of the community, or the Church,
or the Government, to interfere with the individualism of speculative thought, but the attempt
to interfere with the individualism of imaginative art still lingers.  In fact, it does more
than linger; it is aggressive, offensive, and brutalising.

In England, the arts that have escaped best are the arts in which the public take no interest.
Poetry is an instance of what I mean. We have been able to have fine poetry in England because
the public do not read it, and consequently do not influence it.  The public like to insult
poets because they are individual, but once they have insulted them, they leave them alone.
In the case of the novel and the drama, arts in which the public do take an interest, the result
of the exercise of popular authority has been absolutely ridiculous.  No country produces such
badly-written fiction, such tedious, common work in the novel form, such silly, vulgar plays
as England.  It must necessarily be so.  The popular standard is of such a character that no
artist can get to it.  It is at once too easy and too difficult to be a popular novelist. 
It is too easy, because the requirements of the public as far as plot, style, psychology, treatment
of life, and treatment of literature are concerned are within the reach of the very meanest
capacity and the most uncultivated mind.  It is too difficult, because to meet such requirements
the artist would have to do violence to his temperament, would have to write not for the artistic
joy of writing, but for the amusement of half-educated people, and so would have to suppress
his individualism, forget his culture, annihilate his style, and surrender everything that
is valuable in him.  In the case of the drama, things are a little better:  the theatre-going
public like the obvious, it is true, but they do not like the tedious; and burlesque and farcical
comedy, the two most popular forms, are distinct forms of art.  Delightful work may be produced
under burlesque and farcical conditions, and in work of this kind the artist in England is
allowed very great freedom.  It is when one comes to the higher forms of the drama that the
result of popular control is seen.  The one thing that the public dislike is novelty.  Any
attempt to extend the subject-matter of art is extremely distasteful to the public; and yet
the vitality and progress of art depend in a large measure on the continual extension of subject-matter.
The public dislike novelty because they are afraid of it.  It represents to them a mode of
Individualism, an assertion on the part of the artist that he selects his own subject, and
treats it as he chooses.  The public are quite right in their attitude.  Art is Individualism,
and Individualism is a disturbing and disintegrating force.  Therein lies its immense value.
For what it seeks to disturb is monotony of type, slavery of custom, tyranny of habit, and
the reduction of man to the level of a machine.  In Art, the public accept what has been, because
they cannot alter it, not because they appreciate it. They swallow their classics whole, and
never taste them.  They endure them as the inevitable, and as they cannot mar them, they mouth
about them.  Strangely enough, or not strangely, according to one's own views, this acceptance
of the classics does a great deal of harm.  The uncritical admiration of the Bible and Shakespeare
in England is an instance of what I mean.  With regard to the Bible, considerations of ecclesiastical
authority enter into the matter, so that I need not dwell upon the point.  But in the case
of Shakespeare it is quite obvious that the public really see neither the beauties nor the
defects of his plays.  If they saw the beauties, they would not object to the development of
the drama; and if they saw the defects, they would not object to the development of the drama
either.  The fact is, the public make use of the classics of a country as a means of checking
the progress of Art.  They degrade the classics into authorities.  They use them as bludgeons
for preventing the free expression of Beauty in new forms.  They are always asking a writer
why he does not write like somebody else, or a painter why he does not paint like somebody
else, quite oblivious of the fact that if either of them did anything of the kind he would
cease to be an artist.  A fresh mode of Beauty is absolutely distasteful to them, and whenever
it appears they get so angry, and bewildered that they always use two stupid expressions--one
is that the work of art is grossly unintelligible; the other, that the work of art is grossly
immoral.