Nov. 2. brite and fair. Oliver Lane killed his pig today. it was the bigest pig in town. i
had been wating for the bladder ever sense last June and i thought such a big pig aught to
have a big bladder, but it was jest the littlest bladder i ever see. i suppose it was so fat
inside they wasent enny room for the bladder. Skinny Bruces pigs fathers bladder, no i mean
Skinny Bruces fathers pigs bladder was most twice as big.

Nov. 3. Brite and fair. the water in the rane baril was froze over last nite. today i blew
up the bladder and dride it in the kitchen. it made a prety good football. Pewt dident give
me his fathers pigs bladder that he promised me when i let him see the fite when Gim Erly licked
Will Simpkins. you jest wait Pewt and you will see.

Nov. 4. brite and fair. Georgie got sent to bed today and had to stay in bed all the afternoon.
mother told her not to tuch a vase that was full of sand to make it heavy. i wanted the sand
for my aquarian and so i poored it out. well bimeby Georgie came in and went up to take the
vase and it was so lite that when she lifted hard it came up so quick that she went rite over
backward and smashed the vase all to bits. mother came running in and found that Georgie wasent
hurt, but she howled as loud as she cood so that mother woodent lick her, and so she got sent
to bed. mother said it sirved her rite.

Nov. 5. Brite and fair. i have been sick today. i gess i et two much spare rib. when i think
of it it makes me sick. so i have been thinking over the poitry about the fellers. some of
it is prety good.

    Ed Tole fell in a hole
    and coodent get out to save his sole

i made that up.

    Plupy Shute
    is a dirty brute.
    and never will fite
    if they is a chance to scoot.

Pewt he made that up.

    Old Tim Calahan
    he was a hell of a man.

Fatty Melcher he made that up.

    Frank Hanes aint got enny branes
    and dont know enuf to go in when it ranes

Beany he made that up.

    Nipper Brown tumbled down
    and busted his head and cracked his crown.

i made that up too.

    Granvil Miller the barber
    went to shave his father
    the razer sliped and cut his lip
    becaus he forgot the lather.

Skinny Bruce he made that up.

i tell you they is some prety good poits among the fellers. but any feller whitch gets poitry
made up about him gets mad.

Nov. 6. brite and fair. Ed Tole can spit further than enny feller in school.

Nov. 7. Keene and Cele are sick in bed and coodent sing today in church. they have feerful
headakes. docter Perry came in to see them.

Nov. 8. brite and fair. Keene and Cele and Georgie are all sick now and the docter says it
is scarlet fever. they are all up in the front chamber and mother and aunt Sarah take care of them.

Nov. 9. clowdy but no rane. Annie is sick now and i cant go to school ennymore. i like that.
so i am making a hen koop.

Nov. 10. Rany today. Beany he hollered over today to find out how Keene and Cele and Georgie
and Annie are. i have got a soar throte but i aint going to tell ennyone about it.

Nov. 11. i had a headake all last nite. i bet i am going to have the fever. Frankie has got
it now and mother is afrade the baby is coming down, she asked me how i felt and i said buly.

Nov. 12. old Missis Smith is helping take care of the house and gets the brekfasts and dinners
and suppers. today docter Perry he came down stairs and i was setting in a chair and he said
what is the matter with you, and i said nothing and he said let me look at your throte, and
he made me open my mouth and he looked down in my gozzle and then he said you march upstairs
into the hospitle and tell your mother that you are a new pacient and i went up and when mother
saw me come in she said well i have been expecting you. then i went down to my room and got
my niteshert and i thaught i aught to write this down becaus i might die. people do die of
scarlet fever, i wonder if ennyone wood read it if i did die. ennyway father said once that
a boy whitch was born to be hung never wood die in enny other way, so i gess i am all rite.
ennyway i aint going to wright ennymore till i get well.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jan. 17. brite and fair. i dident die and every one of us got well. Annie had it the wirst
and i had it the next wirst and Frankie and the baby want hardly sick any. today is the first
time i have been out. Cele and Keene went out last Wensday but i coodent becaus i hadent got
done peeling. after folks have the scarlet fever their skin dries up and peels of and if you
get cold in the peeling you die every time. i had on my Hoppy Gad boots for the first time
today. father brougt them up to show me when i was in bed. i was prety sick and dident know
nothing for 2 or 3 days. mother says i was talking about the fellers i knew in Reading. we
lived in Reading one year and so i thought i was there i gess and she says i talked of George
and Wendal Evans and Puggy Fergerson and Totty Procter and Emma Wallis and Jonny Pike and Ed
Harndin and Nelly Minot. i had a fite with Ed Harndin and licked him. when Willy died we came
back to Exeter, and she said i talked about Willy to, and everything. we had some fun while
we was sick. Cele used to tell stories and we made flyboxes and then when mother was out of
the room we wood turn sumersets, and bimeby when we got so that we cood eat apples we used
to have one apeace every day and we had to scrape them with a nife and eat the soft part, and
when we were geting beter we were auful cross. i gess most every one wood be cross to lose
thanksgiving and crismas two, and my berthday, and all the skating and snowbaling. ennyway
i havent got to go to school this week.

Jan. 18, 186- buly snowbaling. i went out today a long time, mother told me not to plug snowballs,
so i only throwed 2 or 3. i am hungry all the time.

Jan. 19. brite and fair. one of my hens died when i was sick and the rooster frose his comb.
it is prety tuf on me.

Jan. 20. i went sliding today on factory hill, it was buly. they wasent hardly ennyone there.

Jan. 21. brite and fair. Whack and Boog have got a duble runner, they made it out of there
sleds dart and arrow. it is the fastest duble runner on the hill. i went with them. we beat
Pewts duble runner esy. Pewts is biger and Mister Purington Pewts father painted it buly but
it cant go as fast or as fur as Whack and Boogs. Pewt was mad becaus we beat him.

Jan. 22. i went to church today. Keene and Cele sung in the quire. Beany kept sticking his
head out from behind the organ and making up faces at me to make me laff out loud till the
minister spoke to him and he felt prety cheep.

Jan. 23. snowed and raned today both, i had my sled painted today. it is painted black with
a gold stripe and Exeter Boy in gold letters on it. Mister Purington Pewts father painted it.
i went to school today. nobody got licked.

Jan. 24. clowdy. my sled is most dry enuf to use.

Jan. 25. it misted last nite and frose and today everything was covered with ice it was fun
to see people fall down. most everybody fell down. i went sliding on spring street.

Jan. 26. cold as time. i went to school. we are going over colburns in revew and so i can keep up.

Jan. 27. I havent got ennything to wright today xcept that i went to school. John Adams has
got a new brama rooster.

Jan. 28. Brite and fair. i licked Ti Crummet today. me and Whack and Fatty Melcher was over
on Factory Hill sliding and Ti Crummet and Hirum Mingo and Bobberty Robinson and Dinky Lord
came over and i had my sled all new painted, Pewts father painted it and Ti Crummet run his
old sled agenst it and nocked of sum of the paint, and i told him to keep his old sled of mine
and Ti he said he wood nock sum of the paint of me if i said 2 words more and then he swoar
feerfully. i dident say nothing becaus i dident want to fite him, and Hirum Mingo said Plupy
says he can lick you Ti and Ti said i can nock hel out of you old spindel legs and i said i
dident say so and Ti he swoar sum more so it sort of scart me, well then i was going and Hirum
he pushed Ti rite into me and he kicked me in the leg and got hold of my hair and i got the
under hold and got him down jest as esy as ennything and then i set on him and lammed him til
he holered enuf and then i let him up and he went home balling. i bet he beter not fite me agen.

Jan. 29. Brite and fair. it aint the feller whitch can swear the feerfullest whitch is the
best fiter. i went to church and sunday school today.

Jan. 30. Brite and fair. Johnny Kelly can lick enny feller on Court or South Street and he
can swear auful two. i gess most of the fellers is scart of him becaus he can swear so. i aint
scart of him.

Jan. 31. Rany. not mutch but sum. we was playing snap the whip today and Johnny Kelly was on
the end and got snaped rite into a pudel of water and he said i dident hold on and he wood
give me a slap in the mug and i said he want man enuf and jest then the bell rang and we had
to go in. tomorow he had beter look out i am going to give him one in the eye and then grab
for the under hold and get him down and lam him good. i bet he cant fite enny beter then Ti
Crummet did, and when i have licked him all the fellers will be afrade of me. i bet he will
wish he had never fit with me.

Feb. 1. Brite and Fair. i have got a black eye. this morning i went to school erly and when
i got there Johnny Kelly was there and he said now old Plupy longlegs i will fix you and i
said pile rite in and we will see and he began to swear wirse then Ti did, and i said if you
want a good paist in the gob they is plenty of them rite here if you are man enuf to sale in,
and when i said that he come at me so quick that i dident have time to get ready and he hit
me in the eye and in the mouth 2 times and got the underhold before i cood and got me down
and lammed me till i hollered enuf. then all the fellers holered Plupy got licked Plupy has
got a black eye. it was prety mean ennyway. when i got home to dinner mother asked me how i
got my eye sore and i said i got it boxing with Johnny Kelly and she said was you fiteing and
i said we box every day in school sometimes Beany and Whack and sometimes me and Pewt but today
me and Johnny Kelly boxed and he hits to hard and she said she shood think so, and said i had
beter box with sum other boy and i gess so two. ennyway i dident lie to her for that wasent lying.

Feb. 2. Brite and fair. i gave Johnny Kelly the core of my apple today. Gosh sum fellers can
fite auful and swear auful two.

Feb. 3. Brite and fair. Beany has got a new blew jacket. he felt prety big about it until Pewt
took him in the back with a roten apple. Beany staid in all resess a scraping the apple off
of his coat. this afternoon he wore his old jacket. but he is going to pay Pewt for that sum way.

Feb. 4. it snowed hard all day all the fellers are whacking cats head on each others back.
you take some chork and chork the inside of your hand and your ferst and last finger and then
you wet your fingers and make eyes and nose and mouth in your chorky hand and then you wate
til a feller comes along and then you lam him one on the back and it makes the funniest cats
head on his back you ever see with eyes and nose and mouth and 2 long ears whitch your fingers
made. i got 5 on my back today and i got 1 on Beany and 2 on Pewt and 1 on Pop Clark and 1
on Nipper Brown.

Feb. 5. it snowed this morning and we dident go to church i dug some paths and read Billy Bowlegs
in the afternoon, after super it snowed again and is snowing now. i bet they will be some deep
drifts tomorow.

Feb. 6. brite and fair. it has cleared off. everything was jest as white and they wasent hardly
a track in the snow. i had to dig sum paths, and i got up erly and dug a path down the frunt
steps and out to the road so father cood get into the hack. Jo Parmer said it was prety tuf
slaying. my Hoppy Gad boots have been greesed and they dont leak a bit. me and Pewt and Beany
had sum fun diving. we tide scarfs round our heds and necks and div from our steps into a snow
drift. and we cood go in way out of sight. we tide our britches down over our boots, it was
more fun than diving in the river. after we div one drift all down we tride another, and bimeby
Beany he said come on fellers here is a buly drift down by the shed and we went down and Beany
said i chuse first dive and he clim up on the shed and said 1 to make ready, 2 to prepare,
3 to be going and 4 to be there, and then he div rite into the swill bucket. it was under the
snow and Beany coodent see it, and when he came up he was all swill and he was mad and said
i knew it all the time, and he went home and aint going to ever speak to me enny more. i coodent
see the old bucket enny more than he cood. it is jest like Beany to get mad at every little
thing. i bet he wood laff if i div in the swill bucket.

Feb. 7. Brite and fair. Beany woodent speek to me today. all rite Beany you jest wait and see.

Feb. 8. Brite and fair. it was buly snowballing. we was pluging stewdcats today and Pacer Gooch
came along. so we got behind trees and Pewt peeked jest in time to get one rite in the eye.
he had aught to know beter than peek out when Pacer is pluging snowballs.

Feb. 9. me and Fatty Melcher are making some arrow rifles down to his shop. we are going hunting
for rabbits saterday. brite and fair.

Feb. 10. brite and fair. tonite father brougt a magasine home tonite. it is the young folks.
we all wanted it so we took turns. ferst Cele read a story and then i read a story and then
Keene, we all read it out loud. Cele read amung the glass blowers. Keene read the story of
a bad boy. and i read around the evening lamp. they was all buly stories.

Feb. 11, 186- this afternoon me and Fatty Melcher and Potter Goram went hunting. we had our
arrow rifles and Fatty had a ax and Potter a hachet in his belt and i had a nife. we had a
buly time. we went up to the eddy and then went across the river on Gilmans side. we saw 2
patriges and 1 rabbit and some blewgays. we dident hit them but we came prety near them. then
we bilt a fire and et our donnuts and then we tracked a rabbit into a pile of bushes. when
we turned over a log we scart out a field mouse and killed it. tonite Potter came down to the
house and we read young yagers.

Feb. 12. it raned hard all day. Keene and Cele had to go to church and so i had to go two.
they wasent many there. it ranes now.

Feb. 13. it raned hard all nite. i cood hear it agenst the window and hear the wind blow. it
is comfertible to be in bed and hear the rane. only i forgot my kindlings and i had to get
up before six oh clock this morning.

Feb. 14. Beany nearly got killed today. he was spliting wood with his new ax and he was standing
rite under a closeline. Beany feels prety big about his new ax and he had got so that he can
grunt jest like men who chop wood all the time. so Beany he swung the ax over his head and
it hit the closeline and bounced rite up in the air and came rite down on Beanys head and he
fell down whack and laid there till his father came out and lugged him into the house. they
thought he was ded but he wasent. I went over today to see him, he was setting in a rocking
chair by the stove with his head rapped up in a towel. i sent Beany a valentine today. he dident
send me one but i gess it was because he was sick.

Feb. 15. brite and fair. Beany is better today. i went over and split his kindlings for him.

