I will press upon your attention only one argument for the culture of a religious spirit, and
that is the argument of experience. What is the universal testimony of those whose lives are
really governed by the fear and love of a divine Creator? It is that in the consciousness of
a desire to obey God and live in harmony with His laws they find their highest happiness.

To everyone who lives beyond the earliest period of childhood, comes at some time or other
sorrow, disappointment, sickness, loss, bereavement. The great fact of death looms up at the
end of every pathway, however bright and happy. The universal testimony of the human race,
from the earliest records of human experience to the present time, is that only faith and hope
in a beneficent God ruling over all events can sustain and comfort the human heart through
all the changes and vicissitudes of life, and reconcile to the thought of death.

Early youth is naturally happy, gay, care-free, and indifferent to sorrows and fears of which
it knows nothing. But there comes a time to every sensible and earnest young heart when it
realizes the transitoriness of all earthly things, and longs for something on which the heart
can take hold and rest. I do not believe any young person fails of this experience sooner or
later. It is a hunger of the heart which nothing but the love of God can fill, and if, when
it is first felt, the heart only humbly and earnestly turns to God with high and firm resolve
to seek a knowledge of Him and His laws, to bring all actions and plans of life into harmony
with His revealed will, the foundation of an enduring happiness is laid for this life, and
doubtless for the life to come.

But this desire and effort after a knowledge of God and obedience to His will do not come without
a struggle. We are strange and mysterious creatures, having within us a nature that is most
susceptible to temptations, to do evil. Every one of us is conscious of a struggle constantly
going on in our hearts and lives between evil and good. The temptations to selfishness, greed,
unkindness, untruthfulness, irreverence, indolence, are constant and severe until we have by
long conflict and repeated victory habituated our hearts to choosing the right. Even
the patient seemed revived, with her right arm pulled from the sheets and touching around the
bed, as if she were looking for something which had been lost. Cecilia's hand stopped him, and she asked,
"What do you want, mother?"

"To you, my heart," the grandmother replied with a lot of work.

The tenderness of the exit caused Cecilia's tears to begin anew,
but she was not who the grandmother was attempting to impress.

He turned his face to the other side. "Well here I am, your worship,"
he said, squeezing the patient's hand. "Do you not see," she added with
dripping emotion.

"I turned the lights off for his mercy."
"Are you alone?" he asked the woman, after a long silence.

"Yes, Mommy." was the reply.
 The saddest, darkest,
most suffering life can be irradiated and uplifted and enriched by this spiritual blessing.
The most fortunately circumstanced life may be made poor by its absence. Dean Stanley tells
us of a sister who for perhaps forty years was a constant sufferer from spinal disease, and
during that period almost constantly confined to her couch. Yet her countenance was irradiated
with cheerfulness, and she seemed to inspire everyone who came near her with comfort, and with
ardor and enthusiasm for goodness. Such examples are not rare. Every community knows some person
or persons sustained in deep affliction, though long continued trial and sorrow and loss, by
this unseen spiritual power. On the other hand, experience and observation show us constantly
recurring examples of discontent, peevishness, unhappiness, on the part of those who appear
to be specially favored in the possession of the comforts and riches of this life. Lord Chesterfield
said that, having seen and experienced all the pomps and pleasures of life, he was disgusted
with and hated them all, and only desired, like a weary traveler, to be allowed "to sleep in
the carriage" until the end came.

So it seems only a reasonable appeal to every young heart, as soon as it is mature enough to
understand and make choice among the realities and verities of life, to choose this better
part; to keep the heart receptive to and expectant of this divine comfort and help; to seek
to know and obey the will of this God of all consolation. But this choice is a purely individual
matter. No one can make another person good any more than he can make him happy. All that anyone,
all that the wisest and best teachers and parents can do, is to present the arguments for and
urge the choice of the better part.

But if it is chosen, or if there is a desire to be enabled to choose it, what a help and stimulus
comes from the reading and study of the Bible, especially of the Psalms and the New Testament!
Therein are recorded every phase of the spiritual experiences of humanity in its aspiration
after a knowledge of God. Therein are recorded the words and precepts of "the Great Teacher
sent from God," who said that he and the Father were one, and that he was sent of God to seek
and save the lost. Here are the records of the compassionate expressions that fell from his
lips as he proclaimed his message as the Son of God. Whatever other opinion men may have of
Christ, all must confess that in his words to and about sinning and sorrowing and suffering
men and women, he displayed a love and sympathy such as earth had never known before, and such
as it has known since, in kind, only in the devoted followers of Christ. To have the memory
stored with these expressions or teachings, or with the prayers and aspirations of the psalms
and the prophecies, is to have a fountain of comfort and consolation for the heart, that passes
all understanding. But this fact of human experience you must accept on the testimony of those
who have experienced it, until you have experienced it for yourself. We are not married through the church. He sells things on a cart,
sells water, and I sell meat, lard, guavas, fruit, anything I can.

What
is your name?

My name is Ginovese Santa Cru.

My husband is Tribusio Polanca.

He has one child named Malanga who turned out to be difficult. To know that you had sought and found for yourself this knowledge, that you knew
and sought the help of the divine spirit in resisting temptation to do wrong, that in disappointment
your heart would turn to God for comfort, that in sorrow you would seek consolation in communion
with God, would be to feel that your future happiness was absolutely assured. In this seeking
after God, all things would be yours. And even though you had made but a small and weak beginning
to follow on and know the Lord, I should rejoice in the assurance that the good work, having
been begun, would be completed unto the end.

A LITTLE SERMON TO SCHOOL-GIRLS.

    Be kindly affectioned one toward another with brotherly love, in
    honor preferring one another.

    --Rom. xii. 10. 4.

Wherever people are associated together it will always be found that some are more popular
and beloved than others. Taking it for granted that all my young readers would wish to be lovely
and beloved by those with whom they are associated, I wish to make a short study of some of
those characteristics which always distinguish a lovely or loveable person, and also of some
characteristics which tend to make people unlovely and disagreeable.

But if anyone should at the outset say, "I do not care whether people like me or not, I have
no particular wish to be lovely or beloved," what could I answer? Nothing. I could only express
my sorrow that the better and higher nature of such an one was so undeveloped, and that the
greatest source of true happiness was so unknown and unappreciated. I could only hope that
the conscience and the moral nature of such an one might be aroused and quickened by some good
and faithful admonition or word of instruction. And right here I wish to call the special attention
of my young friends to this fact: Youth is a period given up largely to the work of obtaining
an education; but education is of a two-fold nature. We have an intellectual nature and we
have a spiritual or moral nature. The intellectual powers and faculties it is possible to educate
almost in spite of even the distaste or aversion of the pupil to receiving that education.
We can, in a measure, force a knowledge of the sciences upon even reluctant pupils. We can
prove to them that three angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles, or that an acid
and an alkali will combine to form a salt; but we can never force an antagonistic nature to
receive a spiritual truth. Your parents or teacher may instruct you that it is wrong to be
untruthful or unkind or deceitful, but your own inner natures alone can receive such truths
and assimilate them. 

In order to fix the witch of the mourning picture in the living memory of Mary of Regla could
not be more appropriate occasion, and so it was, then repeated in a whisper, step behind its
protective: - The girl Adela! girl Adela! If at the close
of your prescribed school course you should return to your homes, skilled in all the sciences,
possessed of extensive knowledge of literature, fine musicians, fine artists, and yet selfish,
ungentle, proud or haughty in demeanor, wanting in thoughtfulness for the rights and feelings
of others, careless of being unkind, the time spent in your education would largely have been
spent in vain.

