"'I wish he would show himself one,' said I; 'I said nothing to him, but he placed himself
in my road, and would not let me pass.'

"'Of course he would not be letting you till he knew where ye were going.'

"'He's not much of a fairy,' said I, 'or he would know that without asking; tell him that I
am going to see my brother.'

"'And who is your brother, little Sas?'

"'What my father is, a royal soldier.'

"'Oh, ye are going then to the detachment at ---; by my shoul, I have a good mind to be spoiling
your journey.'

"'You are doing that already,' said I, 'keeping me here talking about dogs and fairies; you
had better go home and get some salve to cure that place over your eye; it's catching cold
you'll be in so much snow.'

"On one side of the man's forehead there was a raw and staring wound, as if from a recent and
terrible blow.

"'Faith, then, I'll be going, but it's taking you wid me I will be.'

"'And where will you take me?'

"'Why, then, to Ryan's Castle, little Sas.'

"'You do not speak the language very correctly,' said I; 'it is not Sas you should call me--'tis
Sassanach,' and forthwith I accompanied the word with a speech full of flowers of Irish rhetoric.

"The man looked upon me for a moment, fixedly, then, bending his head towards his breast, he
appeared to be undergoing a kind of convulsion, which was accompanied by a sound something
resembling laughter; presently he looked at me, and there was a broad grin on his features.

"'By my shoul, it's a thing of peace I'm thinking ye.'

"But now with a whisking sound came running down the road a hare; it was nearly upon us before
it perceived us; suddenly stopping short, however, it sprang into the bog on the right-hand
side; after it amain bounded the dog of peace, followed by the man, but not until he had nodded
to me a farewell salutation.  In a few moments I lost sight of him amidst the snow-flakes."

This is more magical than nine-tenths of the deliberately Celtic prose or verse.  I mean that
it is real and credible and yet insubstantial, the too too solid flesh is melted into something
like the mist over the bogland, and it recalls to us times when an account of our physical
self, height, width, weight, colour, age, etc., would bear no relation whatever to the true
self.  In part, this effect may be due to Ireland and to the fact that Borrow was only there
for one short impressionable year of his boyhood, and had never seen any other country like
it.  But most of it is due to Borrow's nature and the conditions under which the autobiography
was composed.  While he was writing it he was probably living a more solitary and sedentary
life than ever before, and could hear the voices of solitude; he was not the busy riding missionary
of "The Bible in Spain," nor the feted author, but the unsocial morbid tinker, philologist,
boxer, and religious doubter.  It has been said that "he was a Celt of Celts.  His genius was
truly Celtic." {218a}  It has been said that "he inherited nothing from Norfolk save his accent
and his love of 'leg of mutton and turnips.'" {218b}  Yet his father, the Cornish "Celt," appears
to have been entirely unlike him, while he draws his mother, the Norfolk Huguenot, as innately
sympathetic with himself.  I am content to leave this mystery for Celts and anti-Celts to grow
lean on.  I have known Celts who said that five and five were ten or, at most, eleven; and
Saxons who said twenty-five, and even fifty-five.

Borrow was writing without note books: things had therefore in his memory the importance which
his nature had decreed for them, and among these things no doubt he exercised a conscious choice.
Behind all was the inexplicable singular force which, Celtic or not, gave the "dream"-like,
illusory quality which pervades the books in spite of more positive and arresting qualities
sometimes apparently hostile to this one.  It is true that his books have in them many rude
or simple characters of Gypsies, jockeys, and others, living chiefly by their hands, and it
is part of the conscious and unconscious object of the books to exalt them.  But these people
in Borrow's hands seldom or never give the impression of coarse solid bodies well endowed with
the principal appetites.  There is, for example, a famous page where the young doubting Borrow
listens to a Wesleyan preacher and wishes that his life had been like that man's, and then
comes upon his Gypsy friend after a long absence.

But how delicate it is, the two lads talking amidst the furze of Mousehold Heath at sunset.
And so with the rest.  As he grows older the atmosphere thins but never quite fades away; even
Thurtell, the bull-necked friend of bruisers, is as much a spirit as a man.

Mr. Watts-Dunton has complained {220} that Borrow makes Isopel taller than Borrow, and therefore
too tall for beauty.  But Borrow was not writing for readers who knew, or for those who, if
they knew, always remembered, that he was six-feet-two.  We know that Lavengro is tall, but
we are not told so just before hearing that Isopel is taller; and the effect is that we think,
not too distinctly, of a girl who somehow succeeds in being very tall and beautiful.  If Borrow
had said: "Whereas I was six feet two inches, the girl was six feet two and three-quarter inches,"
it would have been different, and it would not have been Borrow, who, as I say, was not writing
of ponderable, measurable bodies, but of possible immortal souls curiously dressed in flesh
that can be almost as invisible.  So again, Mr. Watts-Dunton says:

"With regard to Isopel Berners, neither Lavengro, nor the man she thrashed when he stole one
of her flaxen hairs to conjure with, gives the reader the faintest idea of Isopel's method
of attack or defence, and we have to take her prowess on trust.  In a word Borrow was content
to give us the wonderful, without taking that trouble to find for it a logical basis which
a literary master would have taken.  And instances might easily be multiplied of this exaggeration
of Borrow's, which is apt to lend a sense of unreality to some of the most picturesque pages
of 'Lavengro.'"

But would Mr. Watts-Dunton seriously like to have these scenes touched up by Driscoll or Sullivan.
Borrow did not write for real or imaginary connoisseurs.

I do not mean that a man need sacrifice his effect upon the ordinary man by satisfying the
connoisseur.  No one, for example, will deny that a ship by Mr. Joseph Conrad is as beautiful
and intelligible as one by Stevenson; but neither would it be safe to foretell that Mr. Conrad's,
the more accurate, will seem the more like life in fifty years' time. Borrow is never technical.
If he quotes Gypsy it is not for the sake of the colour effect on those who read Gypsy as they
run.  His effects are for a certain distance and in a certain atmosphere where technicality
would be impertinent.

Mr. Hindes Groome {221a} was more justified in saying:

"Mr. Borrow, no doubt, knows the Gypsies well, and could describe them perfectly.  But his
love of effect leads him away.  In his wish to impress his reader with a certain mysterious
notion of himself, he colours his Gypsy pictures (the form of which is quite accurate) in a
fantastic style, which robs them altogether of the value they would have as studies from life."

For Groome wrote simply as a Gypsy student.  He collected data which can be verified, but do
not often give an impression of life, except the life of a young Cambridge man who is devoted
to Gypsies.  The "Athenaeum" reviewer {221b} begs the question by calling the Gypsy dialogues
of Hindes Groome, photographic; and is plainly inaccurate in saying that if they are compared
with those in "Lavengro" "the illusion in Borrow's narrative is disturbed by the uncolloquial
vocabulary of the speakers." For Borrow's dialogues do produce an effect of some kind of life;
those of Hindes Groome instruct us or pique our curiosity, but unless we know Gypsies, they
produce no life-like effect.

The passages quoted from "Lavengro" are representative only of the spirit of the book, which,
as I have suggested, diminishes with Borrow's increasing years, but pervades the physical activity,
the "low life" and open air, and prevails over them.  I will give one other example of his
by no means everyday magic--the incident of the poisoned cake.  The Gypsy girl Leonora discovers
him and betrays him to his enemy, old hairy Mrs. Herne:

"Leaning my back against the tree I was not long in falling into a slumber; I quite clearly
remember that slumber of mine beneath the ash tree, for it was about the sweetest slumber that
I ever enjoyed; how long I continued in it I don't know; I could almost have wished that it
had lasted to the present time.  All of a sudden it appeared to me that a voice cried in my
ear, 'Danger! danger! danger!'  Nothing seemingly could be more distinct than the words which
I heard; then an uneasy sensation came over me, which I strove to get rid of, and at last succeeded,
for I awoke.  The Gypsy girl was standing just opposite to me, with her eyes fixed upon my
countenance; a singular kind of little dog stood beside her.

"'Ha!' said I, 'was it you that cried danger?  What danger is there?'

"'Danger, brother, there is no danger; what danger should there be?  I called to my little
dog, but that was in the wood; my little dog's name is not danger, but stranger; what danger
should there be, brother.'

"'What, indeed, except in sleeping beneath a tree; what is that you have got in your hand?'

"'Something for you,' said the girl, sitting down and proceeding to untie a white napkin; 'a
pretty manricli, so sweet, so nice; when I went home to my people I told my grandbebee how
kind you had been to the poor person's child, and when my grandbebee saw the kekaubi, she said,
"Hir mi devlis, it won't do for the poor people to be ungrateful; by my God, I will bake a
cake for the young harko mescro."'

"'But there are two cakes.'

"'Yes, brother, two cakes, both for you; my grandbebee meant them both for you--but list, brother,
I will have one of them for bringing them.  I know you will give me one, pretty brother, grey-haired
brother--which shall I have, brother?'

"In the napkin were two round cakes, seemingly made of rich and costly compounds, and precisely
similar in form, each weighing about half a pound.

"'Which shall I have, brother?' said the Gypsy girl.

"'Whichever you please.'

"'No, brother, no, the cakes are yours, not mine, it is for you to say.'

"'Well, then, give me the one nearest you, and take the other.'

"'Yes, brother, yes,' said the girl; and taking the cakes, she flung them into the air two
or three times, catching them as they fell, and singing the while.  'Pretty brother, grey-haired
brother--here, brother,' said she, 'here is your cake, this other is mine. . . .'"

I cannot afford to quote the whole passage, but it is at once as real and as phantasmal as
the witch scene in "Macbeth."  He eats the poisoned cake and lies deadly sick.  Mrs. Herne
and Leonora came to see the effect of the poison:

"'Ha, ha! bebee, and here he lies, poisoned like a hog.'

"'You have taken drows, sir,' said Mrs. Herne; 'do you hear, sir? drows; tip him a stave, child,
of the song of poison.'

"And thereupon the girl clapped her hands, and sang--

   "The Rommany churl
   And the Rommany girl
   To-morrow shall hie
   To poison the sty,
   And bewitch on the mead
   The farmer's steed."

"'Do you hear that, sir?' said Mrs. Herne; 'the child has tipped you a stave of the song of
poison: that is, she has sung it Christianly, though perhaps you would like to hear it Romanly;
you were always fond of what was Roman.  Tip it him Romanly, child.'"

It is not much use to remark on "the uncolloquial vocabulary of the speakers."

Borrow is not describing Gypsy life but the "dream" of his own early life.  I should say that
he succeeds, because his words work upon the indifferent reader in something like the same
way as memory worked upon himself.  The physical activity, the "low life," and the open air
of the books are powerful.  These and the England of his youth gave Borrow his refuge from
middle age and Victorian England of the middle class.

{picture: View on Mousehold Heath, near Norwich.  (From the painting by "Old Crome" in The
National Gallery.)  Photo: W. J. Roberts: page227.jpg}

Youth and strength or their extreme opposites alone attracted him, and therefore he is best
in writing of men, if we except the tall Brynhild, Isopel, and the old witch, Mrs. Herne, than
whom "no she bear of Lapland ever looked more fierce and hairy."  And yet he makes little of
the practical difference between the England of railways and the England of coaches; in fact
he hated the bullying coachmen so that he expressed nothing but gladness when they had disappeared
from the road. No: it was first as the England of the successful wars with Napoleon, and second
as the England of his youth that he idealised it--the country of Byron and Farmer George, not
that of Tennyson, Victoria and Albert; for as Byron was one of the new age and yet looked back
to Pope and down on Wordsworth, so did Borrow look back.

His English geography is far vaguer than his Spanish.  He creeps--walking or riding--over this
land with more mystery.  The variety and difficulties of the roads were less, and actual movement
fills very few pages.  He advances not so much step by step as adventure by adventure.  There
is an air of somnambulism about some of the travel, especially when he is escaping alone from
London and hack- writing.  He shows great art in his transitions from day to day, from scene
to scene, making it natural that one hour of one day should have the importance of the whole
of another year, and one house more than the importance of several day's journeys.  It matters
not that he crammed more than was possible between Greenwich and Horncastle fairs, probably
by transplanting earlier or later events.  Time and space submit to him: his old schoolfellows
were vainly astonished that he gave no chapters to them and his years at Norwich Grammar School.
Thus England seems a great and a strange land on Borrow's page, though he does not touch the
sea or the mountains, or any celebrated places except Stonehenge.  His England is strange,
I think, because it is presented according to a purely spiritual geography in which the childish
drawling of "Witney on the Windrush manufactures blankets," etc., is utterly forgot.  Few men
have the courage or the power to be honestly impressionistic and to say what they feel instead
of compromising between that and what they believe to be "the facts."

It is also strange on account of the many adventures which it provides, and these will always
attract attention, because England in 1911 is not what it was in 1825, but still more because
few men, especially writing men, ever take their chance upon the roads of England for a few
months together.  At the same time it must be granted that Borrow had a morbid fear of being
dull or at least of being ordinary.  He was a partly conscious provider of entertainment when
he made the book so thick with incidents, scenes and portraits, and each incident, scene and
portrait so perfect after its kind.  Where he overdoes his emphasis or refinement, can only
be decided by differing tastes.  Some, for example, cannot abide his description of the sleepless
man who had at last discovered a perfect opiate in Wordsworth's poetry.  I find myself stopping
short at the effect of sherry and Popish leanings on the publican and his trade, and still
more the effect of his return to ale and commonsense religion: how everyone bought his liquids
and paid for them and wanted to treat him, while the folk of his parish had already made him
a churchwarden.  This might have been writ sarcastic by a witty Papist.

Probably Borrow used the device of recognition and reappearances to satisfy a rather primitive
taste in fiction, and to add to the mystery, though I will again suggest that a man who travelled
and went about among men as he did would take less offence at these things.  The re-appearances
of Jasper are natural enough, except at the ford when Borrow is about to pass into Wales: those
of Ardry less so.  But when Borrow contrives to hear more of the old china collector and of
Isopel also from the jockey, and shuffles about the postillion, Murtagh, the Man in Black,
and Platitude, and introduces Sir John Bowring for punishment, he makes "The Romany Rye" much
inferior to "Lavengro."

These devices never succeed, except where their extravagance makes us laugh heartily--as when
on Salisbury Plain he meets returning from Botany Bay the long lost son of his old London Bridge
apple-woman.  The devices are unnecessary and remain as stiffening stains upon a book that
is otherwise full of nature and human nature.

CHAPTER XXV--"LAVENGRO" AND "THE ROMANY RYE": THE CHARACTERS

As the atmosphere of the two autobiographical books is more intense and pure than that of "The
Bible in Spain," so the characters in it are more elaborate.  "The Bible in Spain" contained
brilliant sketches and suggestions of men and women.  In the autobiography even the sketches
are intimate, like that of the "Anglo-Germanist," William Taylor; and they are not less surprising
than the Spanish sketches, from the Rommany chal who "fought in the old Roman fashion.  He
bit, he kicked, and screamed like a wild cat of Benygant; casting foam from his mouth, and
fire from his eyes"--from this man upwards and downwards.  Some are highly finished, and these
are not always the best.  For example, the portrait of his father, the stiff, kindly, uncomprehending
soldier, strikes me as a little too much "done to a turn."  It is a little too like a man in
a book, and so perfectly consistent, except for that one picturesque weakness--the battle with
Big Ben, whose skin was like a toad.  Borrow probably saw and cared very little for his father,
and therefore found it too easy to idealise and produce a mere type, chiefly out of his head.
His mother is more certainly from life, and he could not detach himself from her sufficiently
to make her clear; yet he makes her his own mother plainly enough.  His brother has something
of the same unreality and perfection as his father.  These members of his family belong to
one distinct class of studies which includes among others the publisher, Sir Richard Phillips.
They are of persons not quite of his world whom he presents to us with admiration, or, on the
other hand, with dislike, but in either case without sympathy.  They do not contribute much
to the special character of the autobiography, except in humour.  The interviews with Sir Richard
Phillips, in particular, give an example of Borrow's obviously personal satire, poisonous and
yet without rancour.  He is a type.  He is the charlatan, holy and massive and not perfectly
self-convincing.  When Borrow's money was running low and he asked the publisher to pay for
some contributions to a magazine, now deceased:

"'Sir,' said the publisher, 'what do you want the money for?'

"'Merely to live on,' I replied; 'it is very difficult to live in this town without money.'

"'How much money did you bring with you to town?' demanded the publisher.

"'Some twenty or thirty pounds,' I replied.

"'And you have spent it already?'

"'No,' said I, 'not entirely; but it is fast disappearing.'

"'Sir,' said the publisher, 'I believe you to be extravagant; yes, sir, extravagant!'

"'On what grounds do you suppose me to be so?'

"'Sir,' said the publisher, 'you eat meat.'

"'Yes,' said I, 'I eat meat sometimes; what should I eat?'

"'Bread, sir,' said the publisher; 'bread and cheese.'

"'So I do, sir, when I am disposed to indulge; but I cannot often afford it--it is very expensive
to dine on bread and cheese, especially when one is fond of cheese, as I am.  My last bread
and cheese dinner cost me fourteen pence.  There is drink, sir; with bread and cheese one must
drink porter, sir.'

"'Then, sir, eat bread--bread alone.  As good men as yourself have eaten bread alone; they
have been glad to get it, sir.  If with bread and cheese you must drink porter, sir, with bread
alone you can, perhaps, drink water, sir.'

"However, I got paid at last for my writings in the review, not, it is true, in the current
coin of the realm, but in certain bills; there were two of them, one payable at twelve, and
the other at eighteen months after date."

The incident serves to diversify the narrative, and may be taken from his own London experiences,
while the particular merriment of the rhyme is Borrow's; but it is not of the essence of the
book, and fits only indifferently into the mysterious "Arabian Nights" London, the city of
the gallant Ardry and the old apple-woman who called him "dear" and called Moll Flanders "blessed
Mary Flanders."  Sir Richard will not mysteriously re-appear, nor will Captain and Mrs. Borrow.
I should say, in fact, that characters of this class have scarcely at all the power of motion.
What is more, they take us not only a little way out of Borrow's world sometimes, but away
from Borrow himself.

Apart from these characters, the men and women of "Lavengro" and "The Romany Rye" are all in
harmony with one another, with Borrow, and with Borrow's world.  Jasper Petulengro and his
wife, his sister Ursula, the gigantic Tawno Chikno, the witch Mrs. Herne, and the evil sprite
Leonora, Thurtell, the fighting men, the Irish outlaw Jerry Grant, who was suspected of raising
a storm by "something Irish and supernatural" to win a fight, Murtagh, that wicked innocent,
the old apple-woman, Blazing Bosville, Isopel Berners, the jockey who drove one hundred and
ten miles in eleven hours to see "the only friend he ever had in the world," John Thurtell,
and say, "God Almighty bless you, Jack!" before the drop fell, the old gentleman who had learned
"Sergeant Broughton's guard" and knocked out the bullying coachman, the Welsh preacher and
his wife, the Arcadian old bee-keeper, the rat-catcher--all these and their companions are
woven into one piece by the genius of their creator, Borrow.

He waves his wand and they disappear.  He made them as Jerry Grant made the storm and beat
Sergeant Bagg.  In "Lavengro" he actually does raise such a storm, though Knapp affected to
discover it in a newspaper of the period.  Sampson and Martin are fighting at North Walsham,
and a storm comes on:

"There's wind and dust, a crash, rain and hail; is it possible to fight amidst such a commotion?
Yes! the fight goes on; again the boy strikes the man full on the brow, but it is no use striking
that man, his frame is of adamant.  'Boy, thy strength is beginning to give way, thou art becoming
confused'; the man now goes to work, amidst rain and hail.  'Boy, thou wilt not hold out ten
minutes longer against rain, hail, and the blows of such an antagonist.'

"And now the storm was at its height; the black thundercloud had broken into many, which assumed
the wildest shapes and the strangest colours, some of them unspeakably glorious; the rain poured
in a deluge, and more than one water-spout was seen at no great distance: an immense rabble
is hurrying in one direction; a multitude of men of all ranks, peers and yokels, prize-fighters
and Jews, and the last came to plunder, and are now plundering amidst that wild confusion of
hail and rain, men and horses, carts and carriages.  But all hurry in one direction, through
mud and mire; there's a town only three miles distant which is soon reached, and soon filled,
it will not contain one-third of that mighty rabble; but there's another town farther on--the
good old city is farther on, only twelve miles; what's that! who'll stay here? onward to the
old town.

"Hurry skurry, a mixed multitude of men and horses, carts and carriages, all in the direction
of the old town; and, in the midst of all that mad throng, at a moment when the rain gushes
were coming down with particular fury, and the artillery of the sky was pealing as I had never
heard it peal before, I felt some one seize me by the arm--I turned round and beheld Mr. Petulengro.

"'I can't hear you, Mr. Petulengro,' said I; for the thunder drowned the words which he appeared
to be uttering.

"'Dearginni,' I heard Mr. Petulengro say, 'it thundereth.  I was asking, brother, whether you
believe in dukkeripens?'

"'I do not, Mr. Petulengro; but this is strange weather to be asking me whether I believe in
fortunes.'

"'Grondinni,' said Mr. Petulengro, 'it haileth.  I believe in dukkeripens, brother.'

"'And who has more right,' said I, 'seeing that you live by them?  But this tempest is truly
horrible.'

"'Dearginni, grondinni ta villaminni!  It thundereth, it haileth, and also flameth,' said Mr.
Petulengro.  'Look up there, brother!'

"I looked up.  Connected with this tempest there was one feature to which I have already alluded--the
wonderful colours of the clouds.  Some were of vivid green; others of the brightest orange;
others as black as pitch. The Gypsy's finger was pointed to a particular part of the sky.

"'What do you see there, brother?'

"'A strange kind of cloud.'

"'What does it look like, brother?'

"'Something like a stream of blood.'

"'That cloud foreshoweth a bloody dukkeripen.'

"'A bloody fortune!' said I.  'And whom may it betide?'

"'Who knows?' said the Gypsy.

"Down the way, dashing and splashing, and scattering man, horse, and cart to the left and right,
came an open barouche, drawn by four smoking steeds, with postillions in scarlet jackets, and
leather skull-caps.  Two forms were conspicuous in it; that of the successful bruiser, and
of his friend and backer, the sporting gentleman of my acquaintance.

"'His!' said the Gypsy, pointing to the latter, whose stern features wore a smile of triumph,
as, probably recognizing me in the crowd, he nodded in the direction of where I stood, as the
barouche hurried by.

"There went the barouche, dashing through the rain gushes', and in it one whose boast it was
that he was equal to 'either fortune.'  Many have heard of that man--many may be desirous of
knowing yet more of him.  I have nothing to do with that man's after life--he fulfilled his
dukkeripen.  'A bad, violent man!'  Softly, friend; when thou wouldst speak harshly of the
dead, remember that thou hast not yet fulfilled thy own dukkeripen!"

As Borrow fits these pugilists into the texture of his autobiography, so he does men who appear
not once but a dozen times.  Take Jasper Petulengro out of the books and he does not amount
to much.  In them he is a figure of most masculine beauty, a king, a trickster, and thief,
but simple, good with his fists, loving life, manly sport and fair play.  He and Borrow meet
and shake hands as "brothers" when they are little boys. They meet again, by chance, as big
boys, and Jasper says: "Your blood beat when mine was near, as mine always does at the coming
of a brother; and we became brothers in that lane."  Jasper laughs at the Sapengro and Lavengro
and horse-witch because he lacks two things, "mother sense and gentle Rommany," and he has
something to do with teaching Borrow the Gypsy tongue and Gypsy ways, and the "mother sense"
of shifting for himself.  The Gypsies approve him also as "a pure fist master."  In return
he teaches Mrs. Chikno's child to say his prayers in Rommany.  They were willing--all but Mrs.
Herne--that he should marry Mr. Petulengro's sister, Ursula.  It is always by chance that they
meet, and chance is very favourable.  They meet at significant times, as when Borrow has been
troubled by the preacher and the state of his own soul, or when he is sick of London and hack-writing
and poverty.  In fact, the Gypsies, and his "brother" Jasper in particular, returning and returning,
are the motive of the book.  They connect Borrow with what is strange, with what is simple,
and with what is free.  They are not a device.  The re-appearances of these wandering men are
for the most part only pleasantly unexpected.  Their mystery is the mystery of nature and life.
They keep their language and their tents against the mass of civilization and length of time.
They are foreigners but as native as the birds.  It is Borrow's triumph to make them as romantic
as their reputation while yet satisfying Gypsy students as to his facts.

Jasper is almost like a second self, a kind of more simple, atavistic self, to Borrow, as in
that characteristic picture, where he is drawing near to Wales with his friends, the Welsh
preacher and his wife.  A brook is the border and they point it out.  There is a horseman entering
it: "he stops in the middle of it as if to water his steed."  They ask Lavengro if he will
come with them into Wales.  They persuade him:

"'I will not go with you,' said I.  'Dost thou see that man in the ford?'

"'Who is staring at us so, and whose horse has not yet done drinking?  Of course I see him.'

"'I shall turn back with him.  God bless you!'

"'Go back with him not,' said Peter, 'he is one of those whom I like not, one of the clibberty-clabber,
as Master Ellis Wyn observes--turn not with that man.'

"'Go not back with him,' said Winifred.  'If thou goest with that man, thou wilt soon forget
all our profitable counsels; come with us.'

"'I cannot; I have much to say to him.  Kosko Divous, Mr. Petulengro.'

"'Kosko Divvus, Pal,' said Mr. Petulengro, riding through the water; 'are you turning back?'

"I turned back with Mr. Petulengro."

At another time Jasper twists about like a weasel bewitching a bird, and in so doing puts 50
pounds unnoticed into Lavengro's pocket.  Lavengro is indignant at the pleasantry.  But Jasper
insists; the money is for him to buy a certain horse; if he will not take the money and buy
the horse there will be a quarrel.  He has made the money by fair fighting in the ring, has
nowhere to put it, and seriously thinks that it were best invested in this fine horse, which
accordingly Borrow purchases and takes across England, and sells at Horncastle Fair for 150
pounds.  The next scene shows Tawno Chikno at his best.  But Tawno was the man to try the horse
at a jump, said Jasper.  Tawno weighed sixteen stone, and the owner thought him more likely
to break the horse's back.  Jasper became very much excited, and offered to forfeit a handful
of guineas if harm was done.

"'Here's the man.

A very different beautiful scene is where Mrs. Petulengro braids Isopel's fair hair in Gypsy
fashion, half against her will, and Lavengro looks on, showing Isopel at a glance his disapproval
of the fashion, while Petulengro admires it.  If it is not too much to quote, I will do so,
because it is the clearest and most detailed picture of more than one figure in the whole of
the autobiography.

The men talk together, Jasper telling about the passing of the "old-fashioned good-tempered
constables," the advent of railways, and the spoiling of road life.

". . .

Here it is easy to notice how the uncolloquial and even ugly English does not destroy the illusion
of the scene, but entirely subserves it and makes these two or three pages fine painter's work
for richness and still drama.

I have not forgotten the Man in Black, though I gladly would.  Not that I am any more in sympathy
with his theology than Borrow's, if it is more interesting and venerable.  But in this priest,
Borrow's method, always instinctively intense if not exaggerated, falls to caricature.  I have
no objection to caricature; when it is of a logical or incidental kind I enjoy it, even in
"The Romany Rye"; I enjoy, for example, the snoring Wordsworthian, without any prejudice against
Wordsworth.  "The Catholic Times" as late as 1900 was still angry with Borrow's "crass anti-Catholic
bigotry."  I should have expected them to laugh consumedly at a priest, a parson and a publican
who deserve places in the same gallery with wicked earls and noble savages of popular fiction.

But in "Lavengro" and "The Romany Rye" he is an intruder with a design of turning these books
into tracts.  He is treated far more elaborately than any other character except the author's,
and with a massive man's striving after subtlety.  Moreover, Borrow has made it impossible
to ignore him or to cut him out, by interlacing him with every other character in these two
books.  With sad persistency and naive ingenuity he brings it about that every one shall see,
or have seen in the past, this terrible priest.  Borrow's natural way of dealing with such
a man would be that of the converted pugilist who, on hearing of an atheist in the vicinity,
wanted to go and "knock the beggar down for Jesus' sake"; and a variation upon this would have
been delightful and in harmony with the rest of the book.  But clever as the priest is, Borrow
himself is stronger, honester and cleverer, too.  Of course, the priest leads him to some good
things.  Above all, he leads to the incident of the half-converted publican, who is being ruined
by sherry and Popery.  Borrow pursuades him to take ale, which gives him the courage to give
up thoughts of conversion, and to turn on his enemies and re-establish himself, to make a good
business, become a churchwarden, and teach boxing to the brewer's sons, because it is "a fine
manly English art and a great defence against Popery."  It is at least a greater defence than
Borrow's pen, or deserves to be.

CHAPTER XXVI--"LAVENGRO" AND "THE ROMANY RYE": THE STYLE

The writing of the autobiography differs from that of "The Bible in Spain."  It is less flowing
and more laboured.  It has less movement and buoyancy, but more delicacy and variety.  It is
a finer and more intimate style, which over and over again distinguishes Borrow from the Victorian
pure and simple.  The dialogue is finer; it is used less to disguise or vary narrative, and
more to reveal character and make dramatic effect; and it is even lyrical at times.  Borrow
can be Victorian still.

This better one is from "Lavengro":

"And then Francis Ardry proceeded to make me his confidant.  It appeared that he had had the
good fortune to make the acquaintance of the most delightful young Frenchwoman imaginable,
Annette La Noire by name, who had just arrived from her native country with the intention of
obtaining the situation of governess in some English family; a position which, on account of
her many accomplishments, she was eminently qualified to fill. Francis Ardry had, however,
persuaded her to relinquish her intention for the present, on the ground that, until she had
become acclimated in England, her health would probably suffer from the confinement inseparable
from the occupation in which she was desirous of engaging; he had, moreover--for it appeared
that she was the most frank and confiding creature in the world--succeeded in persuading her
to permit him to hire for her a very handsome first floor in his own neighbourhood, and to
accept a few inconsiderable presents in money and jewellery."

What is more, this is the vocabulary and tone of the whole book, and how far the total effect
is from coarseness and rigidity I cannot show now if I have not done so already.  Borrow's
gusto triumphs over this style in descriptions of men riding, fighting, talking or drinking.
His sense of mystery triumphs over it continually as the prevailing atmosphere must prove.
The gusto and the mystery are all the more impressive because the means are entirely concealed,
except when the writer draws himself up for an apostrophe, and that is not much too often nor
always tedious.  The style is capable of essential simplicity, though not of refined simplicity,
just as a man with a hard hat, black clothes and a malacca cane may be a good deal simpler
and more at home with natural things than a hairy hygienic gentleman.

It may be said of this that it is the style of the time, modified inexplicably at almost every
point by the writer's character.  The Bible and the older-fashioned narrative English of Defoe
and Smollett have obviously lent it some phrases, and also a nakedness and directness that
is half disdainful of the emotions and colours which it cannot hide. Still further to qualify
the Victorianism which he was heir to, Borrow took over something from the insinuating Sterne.

The same critic has remarked on "the Sterne-like conclusion of a chapter: 'Italy--what was
I going to say about Italy?'"  It was perhaps Sterne who taught him the use of the dash when
no more words are necessary or ready to meet the case, and also when no more are permissible
by contemporary taste.  The passage where Ardry and his French mistress talk to Borrow, she
using her own language, is like "The Sentimental Journey."  And, as Mr. Seccombe has suggested,
Borrow found in Sterne's a precedent for the rate of progress in his autobiography.

But innumerable are the possible styles which combine something from the Bible, Defoe, and
Sterne, with something else upon a Victorian foundation.  Borrow's something else, which dominates
and welds the rest, is the most important.  It expresses the man, or rather it allows the man's
qualities to appear, his melancholy, his independence, his curiosity, his love of strong men
and horses.  Of little felicities there are very few.  It has gusto always at command, and
mystery also.  We feel in it a kind of reality not often associated with professional literature,
but rather with the letters of men who are not writers and with the speech of illiterate men
of character.  The great difference between them and Borrow is that their speech can rarely
be represented in print except by another genius, and that their letters only now and then
reach the level which Borrow continues at and often rises above.  Yet he has something in common
with such men--for example, in his feeling for Nature.  In Spain, it is true, he gave way to
declamatory descriptions of grandeur and desolation: in England, where he saw nothing of the
kind, he wrote little description, and the impression of the country through which he is passing
is that of an inarticulate outdoor man, strong and sincere but vague.  Here, again, he has
something in common with the eighteenth- century man, who liked the country, but would probably
agree that one green field was like another.  He writes like the man who desired a gentle wife,
an Arabic book, the haunch of a buck, and Madeira old.  He reminds us of an even older or simpler
type when he apostrophises the retired pugilist:

