THE PRODIGAL RETURNS

By

Lilian Staveley The Author of "The Golden Fountain" and "The Romance of the Soul"   63 Part
III.  81 Part IV.  102 Part V.   151

PART I

Sunshine and a garden path . . . flowers . . . the face and neck and bosom of the nurse upon
whose heart I lay, and her voice telling me that she must leave me, that we must part, and
immediately after anguish--blotting out the sunshine, the flowers, the face, the voice. Other notable churches are: the 1627 built Church of Santa
Maria Maggiore (Jesuit Church) with frescoes by Sante, the Church of Beata Vergine del Soccorso
(Sant 'Antonio Vecchio), in 1830, built by Nobile Church of Sant' Antonio at the end the Grand
Canal, the Church of San Giacomo, the richly appointed with paintings by Dell ' Acqua ornamented
Greek church of San Niccolò two-tower (built 1782), the newly built splendid Serbian church
in the Byzantine and the new Lutheran church in the Gothic style, the Reformed Church and the English
Chapel. The Israelites have five synagogues. More excellent buildings: the new City Hall at Grand
Place, the Tergesteum on the stock exchange (Established 1840), a huge building on the inside with
crosswise Glass Gallery, home of the Stock Exchange; the old stock exchange building in the Doric
style (built 1802), the Statthaltereigebäude and Lloyd Palace at the Great Plaza, the building of the
General Insurance Company on the wharf, the palaces Carciotti, Revoltella, Captain Meyer,
Genel, Salem, the large school building at Leipziger Platz, Hôtel de Ville, Villa Necker (once
owned Jérôme, King of Westphalia), Villa Murat, the Association of Trieste Turn Turn built school
buildings, the tasteful City Theatre, the Armoniatheater, the amphitheater and the Teatro Fenice
Filodrammatico, finally, the large, Built in the Acquedottogasse Politeama Rossetti (City Theatre),
the crowning of the Schlossberg Fort at the site of the Roman Capitol built 1508-1680, with great
views sea ​​and town, several barracks, the riding school, the old hospital (now Artillery
Arsenal), the 33 m high lighthouse (built 1833), the South Railway Station with the big new station
building and 1886 on the quay of Sant 'Andrea the local railway station was built. Of antiquities
should be mentioned: the remains of a Roman amphitheater, a Roman aqueduct and a triumph arch (Arco
di Riccardo) from the imperial era, which served as a city gate. In recent times also been found
in the coastal town of San Bartolo remains of Roman buildings (with mosaic floors). T. was
one of the end zone, including 1880: 144.844 inhabitants, of which 74.544 in the city, the suburbs
account for 58.475 and to the further area of ​​11.825 T.. For the end of 1887 the population
was calculated with 158.478, 1810 T. counted only 29.908 inhabitants, the population is from various
Elements put together. The majority are Italians, mar. Italianate Southern Slavs (108 000) and indeed,
the city has a predominantly Italian character. But there is also in T. numerous German (over 6000,
mostly to the official and commercial classes belonging) as well as members of other nationalities,
as Greeks, British, Armenians, Turks, etc. The farmers of the neighborhood Slovenes are (in all about
26.000), which go hand in hand Sunday in picturesque costumes. The Fishermen and sailors are
usually Dalmatian and Istrian. By religion are by the whole Population 136.168

[Coat of arms of Trieste.]

[Map of the area of ​​Trieste.]

840

Trieste
(industry, trade and transport).

Catholics, 1861 Greek nichtunierte, 1862 Evangelische, 4640 Israel,
217 religious affiliations.

 Had my
brother jumped in, as he said he most surely would have done had I not forewarned him, we must
both have been drowned, for they would have had neither the strength nor the time to pull us
both out alive. I was not at all frightened or upset till I heard someone say that I was dead;
then I wept--it was so sad to be dead! The pressure put upon me to speak as I did had been
so great that I have never forgotten the strange impression of it to this day. On both these
occasions I consider that I was under immediate Divine protection.

I believed earnestly in God with the complete and peaceful faith of childhood. I thought of
Him, and was afraid: but more afraid of a great Angel who stood with pen and book in hand and
wrote down all my sins. This terrible Angel was a great reality to me. I prayed diligently
for those I loved. Sometimes I forgot a name: then I would have to get out of bed and add it
to my prayer. As I grew older, if the weather were cold I did not pray upon the floor but from
my bed, because it was more comfortable. I was not always sure if this were quite right, but
I could not concentrate my mind on God if my body was cold, because then I could not forget
my body.

I saw God very plainly when I shut my eyes! He was a White Figure in white robes on a white
throne, amongst the clouds. He heard my prayers as easily as I saw His robes. He was by no
means very far away, though sometimes He was further than at others. He took the trouble to
make everything very beautiful: and He could not bear sinful children. The Angel with the Book
read out to Him my faults in the evenings.

When I was twelve years old my grandmother died, and for three months I was in real grief.
All day I mourned for her, and at night I looked out at the stars, and the terrible mystery
of death and space and loneliness struck at my childish heart.

After thirteen I could no longer be taken abroad to hotels, for my parents considered that
I received too much attention, too many presents, too many chocolates from men. I was educated
by a governess, and was often very lonely. My brothers would come back from school; then I
overflowed with happiness and sang all day long in my heart with joy. The last night of the
holidays was a time of anguish. Upstairs the clothes were packed. Downstairs I helped them
pack the "play-boxes," square deal boxes at sight of which tears sprang to my eyes and a dreadful
pain gripped my heart. Oh, the pain of love at parting! there never was a pain so terrible
as suffering love. The last meal: the last hour: the last look. There are natures which feel
this anguish more than others. We are not all alike.

I had been passionately fond of dolls. Now I was too old for such companions, and when my brothers
went away I was completely alone with my governess and my lessons. I fell into the habit of
dreaming. In these dreams I evolved a companion who was at the same time myself--and yet not
an ordinary little girl like myself, but a marvellous creature of unlimited possibilities and
virtues. She even had wings and flew with such ease from the tops of the highest buildings,
and floated so delightfully over my favourite fields and brooks that I found it hard to believe
that I myself did not actually fly. What glorious things we did together, what courage we had,
nothing daunted us! I cared very little to read books of adventure, for our own adventures
were more wonderful than anything I ever read.

Not only had I wings, but when I was my other self I was extremely good, and the Angel with
the Book was then never able to make a single adverse record of me. And then how easy it was
to be good: how delightful, no difficulties whatever! As we both grew older the actual wings
were folded up and put away. The virtues remained, but we led an intensely interesting life,
and a certain high standard of life was evolved which was afterwards useful to me.

When, later on, I grew up and my parents allowed me to have as many friends as I wanted, and
when I became exceedingly gay, I still retained the habit of this double existence; it remained
with me even after my marriage and kept me out of mischief. If I found myself temporarily dull
or in some place I did not care for, clothed in the body of my double, like the wind, I went
where I listed. I would go to balls and parties, or with equal ease visit the mountains and
watch the sunset or the incomparable beauties of dawn, making delicate excursions into the
strange, the wonderful, and the sublime. I gathered crystal flowers in invisible worlds, and
the scent of those flowers was Romance.

All this vivid imagination sometimes made my mind over-active: I could not sleep. "Count sheep
jumping over a hurdle," I was advised. But it did not answer. 

Dream interpretation, by the formerly widespread view that the dream of the natural Verbindungsmtttel
with the supernatural world is, and that the dreamer with his gods and movements of deceased
ancestors and their inspirations, tips and hints for the Forward in a kind of imagery get,
assessed effort to interpret these images. On the other hand, sought to achieve but also those revelations
dream intentionally. In most Primitive people takes the medicine man or shaman charge the
order, by tried all sorts of means to put in dream states, and then the gods or ancestors to
inquire about the fate of a person. This dream or oracle of the dead were still in Greeks
and Romans, the Peruvian priest used the sharp narcotic plant graves (Datura sanguinea) to get
the gods and ancestors phenomena. Of the role of prophetic Dreams in ancient history knows Herodotus
and the Bible to tell them, Joseph and Daniel obtained their influence as a dream interpreter.
In Assyria was on the platform of the Stufenpyra-

809

Convert dream - Trutnov.

pyramids the room in which the Babylonian
Sibyl the night visit to the oracle of God received, and the Office
of Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel's already found in the Old Babylonian
heroic poem of Izdubar, where his dream Eabani boom stands as constant
companion to the side.



My father was a great believer in heredity, and the following personal experience may show
him somewhat justified in his belief. In quite early childhood I commenced to feel a preference
for the left side of my body: I washed, dried, and dressed the left side first; I preserved
it carefully from all harm; I kept it warm. I was, comparatively speaking, totally indifferent
to my right side.

As I grew older I observed that the place of honour was upon the right-hand side: I understood
that God had made the world and ruled it with His right hand! I was wrong, then, in preferring
my left hand. I determined to change over. It was very difficult to do: so deep was the instinct
that it took me some years to eradicate the love for my left side and transfer it to my right,
and when I had at last accomplished it I was still liable to go back to my first preference.
No one ever detected my peculiarity.

I was already eighteen or nineteen years old when one day I entered my father's room, ready
dressed to go out. I had on both my gloves. Suddenly I remembered that I had put on my left
glove first. Immediately I took off both my gloves--then I replaced the right one, and then
the left. 

According to the popular belief, human weaknesses and diseases on animals and plants transferred.
The Jews appealed to the annual reconciliation victims all the sins of the people to a "Scapegoat"
and the same hunting in the desert. I had it myself as a youth: it took
me years to conquer. No one should permit himself to be the slave of any habit."

