But Professor Thorndike's statement is incorrect. During the decade named, "Measure for Measure"
was acted at Court in 1604; his conjectural date of "Philaster" is 1608. As we have shown,
"Measure for Measure" fully answers his definition of the "romance" or "heroic tragi-comedy,"
and he admits that it bears a generic resemblance to "Philaster." His statement that for seven
or eight years before "Philaster" "no play had appeared at all resembling it" is therefore
without support, and contradicts his own admission. He assumes much more, and to support his
conclusion argues that "Philaster" was perhaps produced before 1608. The importance of the
point justifies deliberate attention. Against the opinion of most scholars, against the express
statement of Dryden, he assigns "Pericles" to the year 1608; credits Shakspere with the authorship
of the "Marina story;" admits that "the plot is ... like those of the romances, and particularly
like that of the 'Winter's Tale,' in dealing with a long series of tragic events leading to
a happy ending," but endeavors to escape the inevitable conclusion, by the statement, utterly
inconsistent with his own chronology, that, "if the play was as late as 1608, there is a possibility
of Beaumont and Fletcher's influence just as in the romances."

"Pericles" contains a sentimental love story, the plot is like that of the "romances," the
variety of the emotional effects is similar, and there is a contrast of tragic and idyllic
elements. The play is founded upon a "romantic story." All this is admitted, but Professor
Thorndike thinks the love story is not sufficiently prominent, the idyllic elements are not
treated as in the romances, and Marina is therefore not like any of the heroines of Beaumont
and Fletcher, but, while "something like Portia, more like Isabella." And so "Pericles" is
distinguished from the romances because the "treatment" is "different," and finally, because
Professor Thorndike is committed to the theory that Beaumont and Fletcher "created" a new type
of drama, he asserts that "'Pericles' is doubtless earlier than Shakspere's romances, but there
is no probability that it preceded all of Beaumont and Fletcher's." Dryden in his Prologue
to Davenant's "Circe" says: "Shakspere's own muse his Pericles first bore," and the great weight
of opinion is that it was a very early production. The "Story of Marina" is as romantic as
"Cymbeline," and is of the same "type" as "Philaster," and therefore, if Dryden is right, there
is a strong probability that "Pericles" preceded all of Beaumont and Fletcher's romances, and
that in "Cymbeline" Shakspere did not imitate them.

We come at last to the end of the argument. Professor Thorndike, premising that the historical
portion of "Cymbeline" and the exile of Posthumous have no parallels in "Philaster," institutes
a detailed comparison between the plots, characters, and composition of the two plays, and
shows that they are so strikingly similar as to justify the positive conclusion that "Shakspere
influenced Beaumont and Fletcher or that they influenced him." We may admit more than this:
If "Cymbeline" followed "Philaster," he was not only influenced by them, he not only imitated
them, he was a plagiarist; and no apologetic words that, upon the assumption stated, "Cymbeline"
did not owe a very large share of its total effect to "Philaster," can make less the gravity
of the charge, and if the assumption is groundless or even probably groundless, no excuse remains
to the critic who makes it.

Let us see: After all his learned review of dramatic chronology, after all his statements conveying
the assurance that "Philaster" was the original "type" of the "romance," Professor Thorndike
says in so many words, which for accuracy we quote: "Some such statement of the influence of
'Philaster' on 'Cymbeline' could be adopted if we were certain of our chronology. But the evidence
for the priority of 'Philaster' is not conclusive, and its support cannot be confidently relied
upon. Leaving aside, then, the question of exact date, and only premising the fact that both
plays were written at about the same time, we must face the questions,--which is more plausible,
that Shakspere influenced Beaumont and Fletcher or that they influenced him? Which on its face
is more likely to be the original, 'Cymbeline' or 'Philaster'?"

If "Cymbeline" was first written, then "Philaster" becomes not an original but a copy, adaptation,
imitation, plagiarism, if you will. The similarities remain the same, the argument is reversed.
We have shown that the evidence is conclusive, in the opinion of the best critics, that "Cymbeline"
preceded "Philaster." Coleridge, Ulrici, Tieck and Knight think that "this varied-woven romantic
history had inspired the poet in his youth" to attempt its adaptation to the stage; that having
had but a temporary appearance, Shakspere long afterwards, near the end of his career, may
have remodelled it, and Malone, Chalmers, and Drake assign "Cymbeline" with "Macbeth" to 1605
or 1606. Our argument might be safely put upon this point alone. Professor Thorndike's is placed
solely upon "plausibility" and "likelihood." To support it, he assumes again the certainty
of "the priority of Philaster"--which he had just admitted to be uncertain--in order to show
"the nature of Shakspere's indebtedness," and then concludes from "the nature of the indebtedness,"
and from the fact that "Philaster" "was followed immediately by five romances of the same style
in plot and characters" "which mark Fletcher's work for the next twenty years," that "these
facts create a strong presumption that 'Philaster' was the original," "a strong presumption
that 'Cymbeline' was the copy," and finally ends the argument as it began, with these flattering
words: "We may, indeed, safely assert that Shakspere almost never invented dramatic types."

Let us answer both Teacher and Pupil. Suppose, to follow the Thorndike method, that "Cymbeline"
appeared before "Philaster," that six romances by Beaumont and Fletcher followed in rapid succession,
while only two by Shakspere appeared, but differing essentially from each other and from "Philaster."
Suppose that "Cymbeline" upon its first night "filled the audience with surprise and delight,"
that Beaumont and Fletcher, perceiving "its dramatic and poetic excellence," copied in "Philaster"
a portion of its plot and attempted to copy some of its characters and situations. Suppose
their experiment with this copy took the crowd by storm--Isn't it reasonable to suppose that
they would repeat the profitable attempt as many times as the applause warranted? Isn't that
just what they did, repeating and imitating themselves over and over, until Beaumont died?
Does the number of repetitions and imitations increase the "plausibility" or "likelihood" of
the theory that "Philaster" was the original of the type? If Shakspere found his gain increasing
by copying the fable, character, style, and denouement of "Philaster," why did he not continue
to copy in "The Tempest" and "Winter's Tale," and why is it impossible for Professor Thorndike
to deny originality to either of these plays, except by his careless error as to Miranda's
"proposal" and the reference to Lady Amelia gathering flowers at Oxford in 1566? Professor
Thorndike's argument comes to this and only this: If Shakspere wrote "Cymbeline" before Beaumont
and Fletcher wrote "Philaster," then Shakspere was the "creator of the heroic romances." If
the question of priority is doubtful, it is just as impossible to prove the "plausibility"
or "likelihood" of priority as it is to prove the date. There is no proof, therefore, no presumption,
strong or weak, that "Cymbeline" was influenced by "Philaster" or was a "copy" of it. But there
is proof that Beaumont and Fletcher repeatedly and habitually imitated Shakspere, and we cite
it mostly from Professor Thorndike's essay.

In "The Two Noble Kinsmen" there is a "distinct imitation of the circumstances of Ophelia's
madness and death in Hamlet." In "The Woman Hater," assigned conjecturally to 1605 or 1606
by Professor Thorndike, there are "several burlesque imitations of Hamlet."

In "The Knight of the Burning Pestle" (1607-1608) there are burlesque imitations of passages
in "Henry IV." and in "Romeo and Juliet."

In "Philaster" occurs this line:

     "Mark but the King, how pale he looks with fear,"

--a distinct parody of the similar line in "Hamlet"; but it will be remarked that Professor
Thorndike calls it an "echo," not an imitation.

In "The Woman's Prize," improbably assigned to 1604, the whole play is imitated from "The Taming
of the Shrew,"--is in fact an attempted sequel to it, and Professor Thorndike wanders from
chronology to indulge a sneer, by the remark that "The Woman's Prize" was "very well liked,"
the "Taming of the Shrew" only "liked." Possibly that was because then, as now, some people
preferred imitations.

In "The Woman's Prize," there is also a burlesque on "Hamlet" and a parody on "King Lear."
In "The Triumph of Death" these lines occur:--

     "No, take him dead drunk now, without repentance,
      His lechery enseamed upon him,"

and Professor Thorndike says "it sounds like a bit from an old revenge play." It is a distinct
imitation from "Hamlet" where the King is seen at his prayers.

In the "Scornful Lady" there is one certain and one possible slur at "Hamlet."

In "Cupid's Revenge" there is an imitation from "Antony and Cleopatra."

In "Philaster" Arethusa imitates Lear when he awakens from insanity to consciousness.

Upon the Wendell-Thorndike theory, we have a few undisputed facts bearing upon the "plausibility"
of the conclusion that Beaumont and Fletcher "influenced" Shakspere, the likelihood that "Philaster"
was the original, "Cymbeline" the "copy." Shakspere at the age of forty-six, long after he
had portrayed the real insanity of Lear, the simulated insanity of Hamlet, the confessional
dream of Lady Macbeth; long after he had "filled the audience with surprise and delight" by
the romantic realities of Hero and Portia, of Viola and Rosalind; years after he had anticipated
the heroic "romance" in the romantic adventures of Marina; long after he had depicted the heroic
triumph of Isabella over the lustful Angelo--this man, Shakspere, condescended to imitate a
youth of twenty-two, whose name was Beaumont, to steal from him much of the plot, characters,
action, and denouement of "Philaster" and to make the theft more open and unblushing, presented
"Cymbeline" upon the same stage within a year of the original "type," and assigned the parts
to the same actors who had won remarkable popular applause for the drama from which he had
"cribbed" his imitation. And this imitation was not from friendly authors, but from those of
a hostile school, who had during their whole career borrowed from his plots, parodied his phrases,
and ridiculed his masterpieces by slurs and burlesques. We respectfully dissent from the assertion
that these facts "create a strong presumption that 'Philaster' was the original," "Cymbeline"
the "copy." On the contrary, it seems to us that they are utterly inconsistent with any such
presumption, and with the whole theory and teaching of Professors Wendell and Thorndike.

