"No, go on, Luba, go on," he said as he forced her to sit down again. She went on playing,
while Papa, his head on his hand, sat near her for a while. Then suddenly he gave his shoulders
a shrug, and, rising, began to pace the room. Every time that he approached the piano he halted
for a moment and looked fixedly at Lubotshka. By his walk and his every movement, I could see
that he was greatly agitated. Once, when he stopped behind Lubotshka, he kissed her black hair,
and then, wheeling quickly round, resumed his pacing. The piece finished, Lubotshka went up
to him and said, "Was it well played?" whereupon, without answering, he took her head in his
two hands, and kissed her forehead and eyes with such tenderness as I had never before seen
him display.

"Why, you are crying!" cried Lubotshka suddenly as she ceased to toy with his watch-chain and
stared at him with her great black eyes. "Pardon me, darling Papa! I had quite forgotten that
it was dear Mamma's piece which I was playing."

"No, no, my love; play it often," he said in a voice trembling with emotion. As the scene will
be without as funny in the drawing-room, you accompany him thither--
but there is no soon gallant Captain there affecting to wind your
present charming clock (a ceremony little)-- he has gone, and-- alas! just
leaving a timepiece in anybody else to wind.

"Waldemar, shall you be ready soon?" he cried, halting in the middle of the passage. Just then
Masha came along.

"Why, you look prettier every day," he said to her. She blushed and passed on.

"Waldemar, shall you be ready soon?" he cried again, with a cough and a shake of his shoulders,
just as Masha slipped away and he first caught sight of me.

I loved Papa, but the intellect is independent of the heart, and often gives birth to thoughts
which offend and are harsh and incomprehensible to the feelings. And it was thoughts of this
kind that, for all I strove to put them away, arose at that moment in my mind.

XXIII. GRANDMAMMA

Grandmamma was growing weaker every day. Her bell, Gasha's grumbling voice, and the slamming
of doors in her room were sounds of constant occurrence, and she no longer received us sitting
in the Voltairian arm-chair in her boudoir, but lying on the bed in her bedroom, supported
on lace-trimmed cushions. One day when she greeted us, I noticed a yellowish-white swelling
on her hand, and smelt the same oppressive odour which I had smelt five years ago in Mamma's
room. The doctor came three times a day, and there had been more than one consultation. *** "Humour
and love," says a contemporary, "are what will pay the writer on the moment." In view of the property
of our debt to the United States it is felt that
the method of accumulate it in her instalments is bound to prove
unsatisfactory.



Then for a few days we did not see her at all, and one morning St. Jerome proposed to me that
Woloda and I should take Katenka and Lubotshka for a drive during the hours generally allotted
to study. Although I observed that the street was lined with straw under the windows of Grandmamma's
room, and that some men in blue stockings [Undertaker's men.] were standing at our gate, the
reason never dawned upon me why we were being sent out at that unusual hour. Throughout the
drive Lubotshka and I were in that particularly merry mood when the least trifle, the least
word or movement, sets one off laughing.

