The little blind maid was lonely and sick at heart. The noise and the cry of the street smote
her to the earth. The people in the house where they lived, were as kind as they knew how to
be; but how little they knew about kindness, and nothing about peace and quiet. She felt that
she was a burden to Rose, and she knew that Rose could never be any thing to her. Those poor,
sightless eyes shed tears of homesickness for Grace, and she was sorely oppressed with the
desire to be with her again and feel the touch of those cool, quiet hands against her face
and over her eyelids that so often burned with pain, and to hear that voice, which was never
loud and harsh. But what could she do? This is what she did: With her own hand, unaided, she
wrote a letter to the Pope at Rome, and gave it with a piece of silver to an honest house-maid,
who carried it to her priest for proper direction, which he wrote upon it, marveling much when
he read her earnest words of entreaty, begging the Pope to please send back her Sister Grace
from the convent, because she was a little girl, "blind, helpless and very lonely."

The Pope may be infallible, but he is surely human, for when he read the simple words sprawled
out upon a sheet of paper, blistered with the tears of the little blind maid crying out from
across the seas her appeal for the return of her sister from those convent walls, he was moved
to a compassion which was not only priestly, but very human. He bestirred himself in her behalf.
He wrote letters to the convent of those Carmelite nuns. He made earnest inquiry about Grace,
and finally, after many days of weary, heart-sick waiting, a letter came to the parish priest
for little Mary. It was written by the Pope himself, and brought to the blind girl in far-off
America the greeting and the blessing of the great Roman Pontiff. He told her in kindly words
that she had asked what he was powerless to grant; that he could not drive out her sister from
the shelter of those holy walls which she had so wisely chosen, and where she devoutly wished
to remain, and therein peacefully, prayerfully end her days, but that he could send her there
to the arms of that sister; that he could and would gladly give her dispensation from the duties
and the obligations of the holy order; that she might do, as no other had ever done, live among
the Carmelites and yet not be a Carmelite. "Go," he wrote, "little blind maid, and have quickly
gratified the wish of your heart. No holy vows, no robes of the order need be yours. Your sister
can not come to you, but you may go to her, and live where you may daily hear the sound of
her voice and often feel the touch of her loving hands, which have been consecrated to holy
service. God for some wise purpose hath made you blind, but He has put it into my heart, His
servant, to do this thing for you. In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. Amen."

So she went among them, this little blind maid, and the nuns of that Carmelite convent called
her the "Blessing of the Pope," and they loved her the more because her name was Mary.

Grace, now free from the passionate desires which had driven her there, made prayers for Basil
as a good sister makes supplication for her favorite brother, and she found favor not only
in the sight of those about her, but in the eyes of the Lord. The old pain in her conscience
about the little blind sister left out in the world had been removed, and she secretly and
openly rejoiced in the companionship of Mary.

Basil and Rose lived in the big city of smoke and commerce, but no unkindly chance brought
them together. She led that life which suited her best. She followed out her own selfish desires,
which were not many, and easy to gratify. She made no friends, and was not lonely; because
she had never known the sweet and the joy of real companionship.

He (Basil) lived at the club. They spoke of him as being well preserved, whatever that means.
He was popular, went to good dinners, and frequently gave them, yet--ah! that little word yet!
Yet he sometimes made pause in the social round, and alone, by his own fireside, caught the
sound of a voice which he had not heard for years, and the fleeting glimpse of a woman's face
which he had fondly loved. Had loved? Yes, still loved. Then the vision of convent walls, a
Carmelite cloister, a sister kneeling at the shrine of the Blessed Virgin praying for him,
and by her side, feeling her way to the altar rail, Mary, the little blind maid, repeating
a fervent amen to her sister's petition; then--darkness about him, cold ashes on the hearth,
and in his heart a shiver of regret and a feeling of unworthiness.

In that Carmelite convent this is the prayer each night of little Mary, blind, but happy: "God,
give my dear sister Rose more kindness and sweetness. God, keep my good and beautiful sister
Grace, and may God please send a big, strong angel to help my Uncle Basil make a good fight.
Give him faith, and afterwhile a mansion and a crown in that pretty land where little Mary
will not be blind, and where she will not only hear the songs of the angels, but see their
shining faces. God, make me good and keep me true. Amen."

THE PRIEST AND THE WOMAN

TO A NUN WITHOUT CLOISTER

V

THE PRIEST AND THE WOMAN

Near the doorway of a house in a narrow street, where Death had lodged yesterday night, stood
a Priest. A woman, passing by, knelt at his feet, passionately kissed the hem of his robe,
and hurried on, beneath an Arch, into a Garden where there were many flowers and a Shrine to
the Blessed Virgin.

The Priest did not move. But a flush of unwonted color rose into his white face and made it
crimson with shame.

"After all these years," he sighed.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Ave Maria! Ave Maria!" wailed the voice of the woman in the Garden where there were many flowers,
before the Shrine of the Blessed Virgin.