When they discovered the nature of the murmuring and discontent among the crew they immediately
set them to work it up into open mutiny.  They represented that, as Mendez had undoubtedly
perished, there was no hope of relief from Espanola; that the Admiral did not even expect such
relief, knowing that the island was forbidden ground to him.  They insinuated that he was as
well content to remain in Jamaica as anywhere else, since he had to undergo a period of banishment
until his friends at Court could procure his forgiveness.  They were all, said the Porras brothers,
being made tools for the Admiral's convenience; as he did not wish to leave Jamaica himself,
he was keeping them all there, to perish as likely as not, and in the meantime to form a bodyguard,
and establish a service for himself.  The Porras brothers suggested that, under these circumstances,
it would be as well to take a fleet of native canoes from the Indians and make their own way
to Espanola; the Admiral would never undertake the voyage himself, being too helpless from
the gout; but it would be absurd if the whole company were to be allowed to perish because
of the infirmities of one man.  They reminded the murmurers that they would not be the first
people who had rebelled with success against the despotic rule of Columbus, and that the conduct
of the Sovereigns on a former occasion afforded them some promise that those who rebelled again
would receive something quite different from punishment.

Christmas passed, the old year went out in this strange, unhomelike place, and the new year
came in.  The Admiral, as we have seen, was now almost entirely crippled and confined to his
bed; and he was lying alone in his cabin on the second day of the year when Francisco de Porras
abruptly entered.  Something very odd and flurried about Porras; he jerks and stammers, and
suddenly breaks out into a flood of agitated speech, in which the Admiral distinguishes a stream
of bitter reproach and impertinence.  The thing forms itself into nothing more or less than
a hurried, gabbling complaint; the people are dissatisfied at being kept here week after week
with no hope of relief; they accuse the Admiral of neglecting their interests; and so on. 
Columbus, raising himself in his bed, tries to pacify Porras; gives him reasons why it is impossible
for them to depart in canoes; makes every endeavour, in short, to bring this miserable fellow
back to his duties.  He is watching Porras's eye all the time; sees that he is too excited
to be pacified by reason, and suspects that he has considerable support behind him; and suggests
that the crew had better all be assembled and a consultation held as to the best course to pursue.

It is no good to reason with mutineers; and the Admiral has no sooner made this suggestion
than he sees that it was a mistake.  Porras scoffs at it; action, not consultation, is what
he demands; in short he presents an ultimatum to the Admiral--either to embark with the whole
company at once, or stay behind in Jamaica at his own pleasure.  And then, turning his back
on Columbus and raising his voice, he calls out, "I am for Castile; those who choose may follow
me!"

The shout was a signal, and immediately from every part of the vessel resounded the voices
of the Spaniards, crying out that they would follow Porras.  In the midst of the confusion
Columbus hobbled out of his bed and staggered on to the deck; Bartholomew seized his weapons
and prepared for action; but the whole of the crew was not mutinous, and there was a large
enough loyal remnant to make it unwise for the chicken-hearted mutineers to do more for the
moment than shout: Some of them, it is true, were heard threatening the life of the Admiral,
but he was hurried back to his bed by a few of the faithful ones, and others of them rushed
up to the fierce Bartholomew, and with great difficulty persuaded him to drop his lance and
retire to Christopher's cabin with him while they dealt with the offenders.  They begged Columbus
to let the scoundrels go if they wished to, as the condition of those who remained would be
improved rather than hurt by their absence, and they would be a good riddance. They then went
back to the deck and told Porras and his followers that the sooner they went the better, and
that nobody would interfere with their going as long as they offered no one any violence.

The Admiral had some time before purchased some good canoes from the natives, and the mutineers
seized ten of these and loaded them with native provisions.  Every effort was made to add to
the number of the disloyal ones; and when they saw their friends making ready to depart several
of these did actually join.  There were forty-eight who finally embarked with the brothers
Porras; and there would have been more, but that so many of them were sick and unable to face
the exposure of the voyage.  As it was, those who remained witnessed with no very cheerful
emotions the departure of their companions, and even in some cases fell to tears and lamentations.
The poor old Admiral struggled out of his bed again, went round among the sick and the loyal,
cheering them and comforting them, and promising to use every effort of the power left to him
to secure an adequate reward for their loyalty when he should return to Spain.

We need only follow the career of Porras and his deserters for the present far enough to see
them safely off the premises and out of the way of the Admiral and our narrative.  They coasted
along the shore of Jamaica to the eastward as Mendez had done, landing whenever they had a
mind to, and robbing and outraging the natives; and they took a particularly mean and dirty
revenge on the Admiral by committing all their robbings and outragings as though under his
authority, assuring the offended Indians that what they did they did by his command and that
what they took he would pay for; so that as they went along they sowed seeds of grievance and
hostility against the Admiral.  They told the natives, moreover, that Columbus was an enemy
of all Indians, and that they would be very well advised to kill him and get him out of the way.

They had not managed very well with the navigation of the canoes; and while they were waiting
for fine weather at the eastern end of the island they collected a number of natives to act
as oarsmen.  When they thought the weather suitable they put to sea in the direction of Espanola.
They were only about fifteen miles from the shore, however, when the wind began to head them
and to send up something of a sea; not rough, but enough to make the crank and overloaded canoes
roll heavily, for they had not been prepared, as those of Mendez were, with false keels and
weather-boards.  The Spaniards got frightened and turned back to Jamaica; but the sea became
rougher, the canoes rolled more and more, they often shipped a quantity of water, and the situation
began to look serious.  All their belongings except arms and provisions were thrown overboard;
but still, as the wind rose and the sea with it, it became obvious that unless the canoes were
further lightened they would not reach the shore in safety. Under these circumstances the Spaniards
forced the natives to leap into the water, where they swam about like rats as well as they
could, and then came back to the canoes in order to hold on and rest themselves. When they
did this the Spaniards slashed at them with their swords or cut off their hands, so that one
by one they fell back and, still swimming about feebly as well as they could with their bleeding
hands or stumps of arms, the miserable wretches perished and sank at last.

