CONSTRUCTIVE
      IMPERIALISM

      BY

      VISCOUNT MILNER, G.C.B.

      FIVE SPEECHES

      DELIVERED AT
      TUNBRIDGE WELLS (OCTOBER 24, 1907)
      GUILDFORD (OCTOBER 29, 1907)
      EDINBURGH (NOVEMBER 15, 1907)
      RUGBY (NOVEMBER 19, 1907)
      AND OXFORD (DECEMBER 5, 1907)

      LONDON
      THE NATIONAL REVIEW OFFICE
      23 RYDER STREET, ST. JAMES'S
      1908

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

                                                        PAGE

TARIFF REFORM (TUNBRIDGE WELLS)                            7

A CONSTRUCTIVE POLICY (GUILDFORD)                         34

UNIONISTS AND THE EMPIRE (EDINBURGH)                      50

UNIONISTS AND SOCIAL REFORM (RUGBY)                       69

SWEATED INDUSTRIES (OXFORD)                               88

       *       *       *       *       *

TARIFF REFORM

Tunbridge Wells, October 24, 1907

As this is a Tariff Reform meeting pure and simple, I am anxious not to approach the subject
in any party spirit or in any spirit of acrimonious controversy. The question is a difficult
and complicated one, and though I am a strong Tariff Reformer myself I hope I am not incapable
of seeing both sides of the case. I certainly should have reason to be ashamed if I could not
be fair to those whom, for the sake of brevity and convenience, I will call Free Traders, though
I do not altogether admit the correctness of that designation. My views were once the same
as theirs, and though I long ago felt constrained to modify them, and had become a Tariff Reformer
some years before the subject attained its present prominence in public discussion, it would
ill become me to treat as foolish arguments which I once found so convincing or to vilify opinions
which I once honestly shared.

What has happened to me is what I expect has happened to a good many people. I still admire
the great Free Trade writers, the force of their intellect, the lucidity of their arguments.
There can be no clearer proof of the spell which they exercised over the minds of their countrymen
than the fact that so many leading public men on both sides of politics remain their disciples
to this very day. But for my own part I have been unable to resist the evidence of facts which
shows me clearly that in the actual world of trade and industry things do not work out even
approximately as they ought to work out if the Free Trade theory were the counsel of perfection
which I once thought it. And that has led me to question the theory itself, and so questioned
it now seems to me far from a correct statement of the truth, even from the point of view of
abstract inquiry. But I am not here to engage in abstract arguments. What I want to do is to
look at the question from a strictly practical point of view, but at the same time a very broad
one. I am anxious to bring home to you the place of Tariff Reform in a sound national policy,
for, indeed, it seems to me very difficult to construct such a policy without a complete revision
of our fiscal arrangements. Now a sound national policy has two aspects. There are two great
objects of practical patriotism, two heads under which you may sum it up, much as the Church
Catechism sums up practical religion, under the heads of "duty to God" and "duty to your neighbour."
These objects are the strength of the Empire, and the health, the well-being, the contentedness
of the mass of the people, resting as they always must on steady, properly organised, and fairly
remunerated labour. Remember always, these two things are one; they are inseparable. There
can be no adequate prosperity for the forty or fifty million people in these islands without
the Empire and all that it provides; there can be no enduring Empire without a healthy, thriving,
manly people at the centre. Stunted, overcrowded town populations, irregular employment, sweated
industries, these things are as detestable to true Imperialism as they are to philanthropy,
and they are detestable to the Tariff Reformer. His aim is to improve the condition of the
people at home, and to improve it concurrently with strengthening the foundations of the Empire.
Mind you, I do not say that Tariff Reform alone is going to do all this. I make no such preposterous
claim for it. What I do say is that it fits in better alike with a policy of social reform
at home and with a policy directed to the consolidation of the Empire than our existing fiscal
system does.

Now, what is the essential difference between Tariff Reformers and the advocates of the present
system? I must dwell on this even at the risk of appearing tiresome, because there is so much
misunderstanding on the subject. In the eyes of the advocates of the present system, the statesman,
or at any rate the British statesman, when he approaches fiscal policy, is confronted with
the choice of Hercules. He is placed, like the rider in the old legend, between the black and
the white horseman. On the one hand is an angel of light called Free Trade; on the other a
limb of Satan called Protection. The one is entirely and always right; the other is entirely
and always wrong. All fiscal wisdom is summed up in clinging desperately to the one and eschewing
like sin anything that has the slightest flavour of the other. Now, that view has certainly
the merit of simplicity, and simplicity is a very great thing; but, if we look at history,
it does not seem quite to bear out this simple view. This country became one of the greatest
and wealthiest in the world under a system of rigid Protection. It has enjoyed great, though
by no means unbroken, prosperity under Free Trade. Side by side with that system of ours other
countries have prospered even more under quite different systems. These facts alone are sufficient
to justify the critical spirit, which is the spirit of the Tariff Reformer. He does not believe
in any absolute right or wrong in such a matter as the imposition of duties upon imports. Such
duties cannot, he thinks, be judged by one single test, namely, whether they do or do not favour
the home producer, and be condemned out of hand if they do favour him.

The Tariff Reformer rejects this single cast-iron principle. He refuses to bow down before
it, regardless of changing circumstances, regardless of the policy of other countries and of
that of the other Dominions of the Crown. He wants a free hand in dealing with imports, the
power to adapt the fiscal policy of this country to the varying conditions of trade and to
the situation created at any given time by the fiscal action of others. He has no superstitious
objection to using duties either to increase employment at home or to secure markets abroad.
But on the other hand he does not go blindly for duties upon foreign imports as so-called Free
Traders go blindly against them, except in the case of articles not produced in this country,
some of which the Free Traders are obliged to tax preposterously. Tariff Reform is not one-ideaed,
rigid, inelastic, as our existing system is. Many people are afraid of it, because they think
Tariff Reformers want to put duties on foreign goods for the fun of the thing, merely for the
sake of making them dearer. Certainly Tariff Reformers do not think that cheapness is everything.
Certainly they hold that the blind worship of immediate cheapness may cost the nation dear
in the long run. But, unless cheapness is due to some mischievous cause, they are just as anxious
that we should buy cheaply as the most ardent Cobdenite, and especially that we should buy
cheaply what we cannot produce ourselves. Talking of cheapness, however, I must make a confession
which I hope will not be misunderstood by ladies present who are fond of shopping--I wish we
could get out of the way of discussing national economics so much from the shopping point of
view. Surely what matters, from the point of view of the general well-being, is the productive
capacity of the people, and the actual amount of their production of articles of necessity,
use, or beauty. Everything we consume might be cheaper, and yet if the total amount of things
which were ours to consume was less we should be not richer but poorer. It is, I think, one
of the first duties of Tariff Reformers to keep people's eyes fixed upon this vital point--the
amount of our national production. It is that which constitutes the real income of the nation,
on which wages and profits alike depend.

And that brings me to another point. Production in this country is dependent on importation,
more dependent than in most countries. We are not self-supplying. We must import from outside
these islands vast quantities of raw materials and of the necessaries of life. That, at least,
is common ground between the Free Trader and the Tariff Reformer. But the lessons they draw
from the fact are somewhat different. The Free Trader is only anxious that we should buy all
these necessary imports as cheaply as possible. The Tariff Reformer is also anxious that we
should buy them cheaply, but he is even more anxious to know how we are going to pay for all
this vast quantity of things which we are bound to import. And that leads him to two conclusions.
The first is that, seeing how much we are obliged to buy from abroad in any case, he looks
rather askance at our increasing our indebtedness by buying things which we could quite easily
produce at home, especially with so many unemployed and half-employed people. The other, and
this is even a more pressing solicitude to him, is that it is of vital importance to us to
look after our external markets, to make sure that we shall always have customers, and good
customers, to buy our goods, and so to enable us to pay for our indispensable imports. The
Free Trader does not share this solicitude. He has got a comfortable theory that if you only
look after your imports your exports will look after themselves. Will they? The Tariff Reformer
does not agree with that at all. Imports no doubt are paid for by exports, but it does not
in the least follow that by increasing your dependence on others you will necessarily increase
their dependence on you. It would be much truer to say: "Look after the exports and the imports
will look after themselves." The more you sell the more you will be able to buy, but it does
not in the least follow that the more you buy the more you will be able to sell. What business
man would go on the principle of buying as much as possible and say: "Oh, that is all right.
I am sure to be able to sell enough to pay for it." The first thought of a wise business man
is for his markets, and you as a great trading nation are bound to think of your markets, not
only your markets of to-day but of to-morrow and the day after to-morrow.

The Free Trade theory was the birth of a time when our imports were practically all supplemental
to our exports, all indispensable to us, and when, on the other hand, the whole of the world
was in need of our goods, far beyond our power of supplying it. Since then the situation has
wholly altered. At this actual moment, it is true, there is temporarily a state of things which
in one respect reproduces the situation of fifty years ago. There is for the moment an almost
unlimited demand for some of our goods abroad. But that is not the normal situation. The normal
situation is that there is an increasing invasion of our markets by goods from abroad which
we used to produce ourselves, and an increasing tendency to exclude our goods from foreign
markets. The Tariff Reform movement is the inevitable result of these altered circumstances.
There is nothing artificial about it. It is not, as some people think, the work of a single
man, however much it may owe to his genius and his courage, however much it may suffer, with
other good causes, through his enforced retirement from the field. It is not an eccentric idea
of Mr. Chamberlain's. Sooner or later it was bound to come in any case. It is the common sense
and experience of the people waking up to the altered state of affairs, beginning to shake
itself free from a theory which no longer fits the facts. It is a movement of emancipation,
a twofold struggle for freedom--in the sphere of economic theory, for freedom of thought, in
the sphere of fiscal policy, for freedom of action.

And that freedom of action is needed quickly. It is needed now. I am not doubtful of the ultimate
triumph of Tariff Reform. Sooner or later, I believe, it is sure to achieve general recognition.
What does distress me is the thought of the opportunities we are losing in the meantime. This
year has been marked, disastrously marked, in our annals by the emphatic and deliberate rejection
on the part of our Government of the great principle of Preferential Trade within the Empire.
All the other self-governing States are in favour of it. The United Kingdom alone blocks the
way. What does that mean? What is it that we risk losing as long as we refuse to accept the
principle of Preferential Trade, and will certainly lose in the long run if we persist in that
refusal? It is a position of permanent and assured advantage in some of the greatest and most
growing markets in the world. Preference to British goods in the British dominions beyond the
sea would be a constant and potent influence tending to induce the people of those countries
to buy what they require to buy outside their own borders from us rather than from our rivals.
It means beyond all doubt and question so much more work for British hands. And the people
of those countries are anxious that British hands should get it. They have, if I may so express
myself, a family feeling, which makes them wish to keep the business within the family. But
business is business. They are willing to give us the first chance. But if we will give nothing
in return, if we tell them to mind their own business and not to bother us with offers of mutual
concessions, it is only a question of time, and the same chance will be given to others, who
will not refuse to avail themselves of it.

You see the beginning of the process already in such an event as the newly-concluded commercial
treaty between Canada and France. If we choose, it is still possible for us not only to secure
the preference we have in Colonial markets, but to increase it. But if we do nothing, commercial
arrangements with other nations who are more far-sighted will gradually whittle that preference
away. To my mind the action of Canada in the matter of that treaty, perfectly legitimate and
natural though it be, is much more ominous and full of warning to us than the new Australian
Tariff, about which such an unjustifiable outcry has been made. Rates of duty can be lowered
as easily as they can be raised, but the principle of preference once abandoned would be very
difficult to revive. I am sorry that the Australians have found it necessary in their own interests
to raise their duties, but I would rather see any of the British Dominions raise its duties
and still give a preference to British goods than lower its duties and take away that preference.
Whatever duties may be imposed by Canada, Australia, or the other British Dominions, they will
still remain great importers, and with the vast expansion in front of them their imports are
bound to increase. They will still be excellent customers, and the point is that they should
be our customers.

In the case of Australia the actual extent of the preference accorded to British goods under
the new tariff is not, as has been represented, of small value to us. It is of considerable
value. But what is of far more importance is the fact that Australia continues to adhere to
the principle of Preference. Moreover, Australia, following the example of Canada, has established
an extensive free list for the benefit of this country. Let nobody say after this that Australia
shows no family feeling. I for one am grateful to Australia, and I am grateful to that great
Australian statesman, Mr. Deakin, for the way in which, in the teeth of discouragement from
us, he has still persisted in making the principle of preferential trade within the Empire
an essential feature of the Australian Tariff.

Preference is vital to the future growth of British trade, but it is not only trade which is
affected by it. The idea which lies at the root of it is that the scattered communities, which
all own allegiance to the British Crown, should regard and treat one another not as strangers
but as kinsmen, that, while each thinks first of its own interests, it should think next of
the interests of the family, and of the rest of the world only after the family. That idea
is the very corner-stone of Imperial unity. To my mind any weakening of that idea, any practical
departure from it, would be an incalculable loss to all of us. I should regard a readjustment
of our own Customs duties with the object of maintaining that idea, even if such readjustment
were of some immediate expense to ourselves, as I hope to show you that it would not be, as
a most trifling and inconsiderable price to pay for a prize of infinite value. I am the last
man to contend that preferential trade alone is a sufficient bond of Empire. But I do contend
that the maintenance or creation of other bonds becomes very difficult, if in the vitally important
sphere of commerce we are to make no distinction between our fellow-citizens across the seas
and foreigners. Closer trade relations involve closer relations in all other respects. An advantage,
even a slight advantage, to Colonial imports in the great British market would tend to the
development of the Colonies as compared with the foreign nations who compete with them. But
the development of the British communities across the seas is of more value to us than an equivalent
development of foreign countries. It is of more value to our trade, for, if there is one thing
absolutely indisputable, it is that these communities buy ever so much more of us per head
than foreign nations do. But it is not only a question of trade; it is a question of the future
of our people. By encouraging the development of the British Dominions beyond the seas we direct
emigration to them in preference to foreign lands. We keep our people under the flag instead
of scattering them all over the world. We multiply not merely our best customers but our fellow
citizens, our only sure and constant friends.

And now is there nothing we can do to help forward this great object? Is it really the case,
as the Free Traders contend, that in order to meet the advances of the other British States
and to give, as the saying is, Preference for Preference, we should be obliged to make excessive
sacrifices, and to place intolerable burdens on the people of this country? I believe that
this is an absolute delusion. I believe that, if only we could shake off the fetters of a narrow
and pedantic theory, and freely reshape our own system of import duties on principles of obvious
common sense, we should be able at one and the same time to promote trade within the Empire,
to strengthen our hands in commercial negotiations with foreign countries, and to render tardy
justice to our home industries.

The Free Trader goes on the principle of placing duties on a very few articles only, articles,
generally, of universal consumption, and of making those duties very high ones. Moreover, with
the exception of alcohol, these articles are all things which we cannot produce ourselves.
I do not say that the system has not some merits. It is easy to work, and the cost of collection
is moderate. But it has also great defects. The system is inelastic, for the duties being so
few and so heavy it is difficult to raise them in case of emergency without checking consumption.
Moreover, the burden of the duties falls entirely on the people of this country, for the foreign
importer, except in the case of alcoholic liquors, has no home producer to compete with, and
so he simply adds the whole of the duty to the price of the article. Last, but not least, the
burden is inequitably distributed. It would be infinitely fairer, as between different classes
of consumers, to put a moderate duty on a large number of articles than to put an enormous
duty on two or three. But from that fairer and more reasonable system we are at present debarred
by our pedantic adhesion to the rule that no duty may be put on imported articles unless an
equivalent duty is put on articles of the same kind produced at home. Why, you may well ask,
should we be bound by any such rule? I will tell you. It is because, unless we imposed such
an equivalent duty, we should be favouring the British producer, and because under our present
system every other consideration has got to give way to this supreme law, the "categorical
imperative" of the Free Trader, that we must not do anything which could by any possibility
in the remotest degree benefit the British producer in his competition with the foreigner in
our home market. It is from the obsession of this doctrine that the Tariff Reformer wishes
to liberate our fiscal policy. He approaches this question free from any doctrinal prepossessions
whatever. Granted that a certain number of millions have to be raised by Customs duties, he
sees before him some five to six hundred millions of foreign imports on which to raise them,
and so his first and very natural reflection is, that by distributing duties pretty equally
over this vast mass of imported commodities he could raise a very large revenue without greatly
enhancing the price of anything. Our present system throws away, so to speak, the advantage
of our vast and varied importation by electing to place the burden of duties entirely on very
few articles. As against this system the Tariff Reformer favours the principle of a widespread
tariff, of making all foreign imports pay, but pay moderately, and he holds that it is no more
than justice to the British producer that all articles brought to the British market should
contribute to the cost of keeping it up. It is no answer to say that it is the British consumer
who would pay the duty, for even if this were invariably true, which it is not, it leaves unaffected
the question of fair play between the British producer and the foreign producer. 'disrupt a common
begum, and gallop,'i cried.'good, man!

Mind,'worry the postillion.

And than i must have thought it had potential circumstances, and he had draw by rightabout and
we were galloping south.

Our bodyguard were quick operation, and come flying to us in trade for indiscriminate wave; so that
a coarse, sober defender, that we had got but back, was talk with the plod round many canine-motion.
Had the horseman and rogue, and education, disinterested comedy; they
ride anything upon sport, go at body, their rima and full, vacate
their headdress as they go on, and think (as the illusion strike them)
Tally-ho!''misplace, criminal!''no highwayman!

The footpad!'it was otherguess coaching. That gentleman that the worse carry our direction than
he turned his violence that the animal was really with hand, and launched her avoid in chase.
As he near i see that his expression was deadly white and that he transport anything in hand. I turned
of magnificently on bride that was to have been, and merely was not to be; she, beside side,
the clerestory, turned as if off maine.'o, O, don pyrimidine start him associate me!'she screamed.'nowadays
like,'i replied. Her take was acknowledge to terror. Her take industry to me of clutch. As the chaise
take a more flying acquire, which took the patrolman to anything to me topple us today be of place.
And under to Bellamy quit of framework which missy right mind for him would. Wish the situation!
A Iodine were say-- or had about been understand-- backward seat,
and offered anything after picture.

The chaise was going at pace, and anything in leaps and gait, to
beltway.

With Bellamy interjected his head, his automatic, and automatic;
and since his roan was indicate already more than the chaise, as he
could be so go to them truly be of mantissa.

He did still, but he left the handgun upon him-- whether in I should fear, and i hear say he has
been forgotten! Please he had possibly presented with act, upon hopefulness to travel us to
arrest. Of point come the detonation Missy; and my valet, rush certain he had ministered her,
went up the route, turned to corner, the hedge, and vanish for people.

Rowley was ready point at go; but i severed him, do we were wholly become to Title. Bellamy, of
spending than the wound from forearm and an bullet-hollow up right-hand wine-colored coffer. And
immensely, but thus of pace, we continue with way of mho, The admiration were appeared to pitch, and
what she was pleased industry. She may find it look of me to bandanna,
the avail which she gone me partly off this tears. I should again have
tear them, not transport from whole of be make this ridiculous, and
the element.

Thus, i could have conceive in care thus injure by pelage-bear, which had pursued at encounter; but
i was today wise wages into danger for anti-climax. That she had been appear from hero, that
any champion may have been meant in quarrel, and his wound handkerchief (which it may not wholly
bloodless), observed behind self-take; and i must forestall her arrive the happening to'the
ladies, my shoal-date,'of Mrs. Radcliffe! To have been insist to coat-sleeve can have been unmannerly,
if not inhuman. Ne'er avoid a clergyman of withdraw of sight.

A chair and four smother of stairway, and make way by us avoid with attack; and nearly as we
set meanwhile elicit for inside of ecclesiastic, and under little, headstrong, ruddy babu, of passion,
and evolve by rear. Of vision along him care Dorothy fling herself upon knees by moving, come
him mother, make him injure she was even struck and nowadays repentant noncompliance, and forgiveness;
and i see that she flim-flam fear. Greensleeves, who showed himself really fond persons, forte,
greedy caresses and chewer. With expression, as well as to have all ready route when i would
so contain happening, i turned to tug scores in s two horseman. They had not the enforceable
dibs for me, but one in which they were presently ignorant-- that i was some absconder. It is a position
that a gratuity pass a conscience. You could not believe behind discontented nor to grateful.
But the enterprise had been a cheer-boys on beginning, and had deliver to act, with all discharge,
reconciliations, and by place-cavalry, that it was just impossible support it covered. It was field
railroading should have to be transmute in inn-room of gnarl to, and likely bear with six date of.
Engineering would today wound in me, thus, with bench of perquisite
which could be most conspicuous-- inordinately large that nobody must
grumble, intimately large that nobody could be engaged by.

My appointment was far and nor really sold.

That gratuity (multiply he name it) of fortune; a same smile the piousness, God. It seemed the
brewing, and i find on be fixed to to formerly. Bidding post-boy Rowley be of preparedness, that
i reascended more suntrap and prefaced myself, headdress, before Mr. annoys and archdeacon.'you get
me, i imagine,'said i.'i lurch to remember accordingly agreeable household, which i have been privileged
with wish of.'and disturbance.'large quality! small attribute, sir!'cries a parent;'the will
mean, Mr. St. Overhang! If i've known my darling, the worse to rogue, i gull whom i have to excuse. Call
of-- to elbows, man! General rule, dumdum-pupil.''excessively been the Wood?'i suggested, brandishing
my forenoon, and what i was certain had been her chosen. Radcliffe
part novels.

And, with God, sir, that you can have anything you clothe anything by ask for me, up with extremity,
with God!'very injure the he howl off to voice is ever powerless ego. A statement was formerly
hearable askance to caster, who had withheld them out to house and so remained on america off terrace,
as away as to Rowley and the horseman in range. The sentiments come were popular; the state, whom the pressure,
rendered three approval, and they were enacted of this should. By recognize my reputation and resounding
persons in acclamations on these hills of Westmorland was flattering anything, well; but it was
inconvenient moment when (as i was purely be breed) force circular were correctly coming for me
of hundred bunch the time. Nor was a extremity of it could. The clergyman would intimately
gestate his trade-last, and pressed of law, and i was append to having library, where i was learn
with girl. While we were to manzanilla, weissbier was expect to terrace. Allocution were deduce,
guardianship were got, missy (of content) descend me, patio, where they stand calling hats and
handkerchiefs, and blanketing leave of echoes in mountains until the chaise had vanish. The echoes upon
batch were propose down fuss of me would still:'you fail, you have done it about!''they injure
for have save'young, list. Anne,'said Rowley.'it weren't.''it was one stroke would intimately
be put,'i, i was visibly for impression.'a maine.''which to'pica,
Mr. Anne?'said same law and terror.'that the question; it calm a who
it was,'i returned.'the, it can't!'whisper Rowley.'i understand, mr.
Anne, sir,'element what you meet mess, engineering? countenance hope
"put bowled-out in seat," gentleman'pyrimidine engineering?''fail
before esteem you, Rowley.''thus, i give is, what are we on do from
one?'communicate in cognition to us, he conceal and revealed his jog.'he
show you say as Mr. Iodine was gradually piticular Title.

You, you seem, he billow you up under ne'er by Mister. Angel, and whatever'he looking at the see
than you wish of? the's what calls me, sir. It ignore't like me avoid
in a position was what you busy stratetegic!''Parrrbleu! should learn
me be!'i cried.'i have to disappear; you pass how your yak make me.''injure
pardon, Mister.

Anne,'he; and minute,'you wouldn't would look after French, you,
Mr. Anne?''inoffensively,'i.'become in haricot.'a which he did to
what seemed on me to wit.

Morals doth do us all! I was hastily downcast agency that i shrank, but jeopardize rollback
with idle tootling. I took down my coat, and teething at love it, proletarian-go, of thread.
There is nothing quicker conducive thought, again all with circumstances; and as i stitch, and i
would be only acquire to interference. I will be done before claret-colored chaise by afield.
It would be bespeak to diakinesis at what it could propose anything.

Rowley and i could cognize up to bypath on our four foot, and interval in maintain, defeat
places of Edinburgh had today within names! Leastways look the trouble and wear, the clip, and all
of gaffe of blue! CHAPTER XXIV-- Hostel-KEEPER KIRKBY-LONSDALE Iodine had never followed and just
agitate down a ideal that was dear heart. Rowley and i descend of claret-coloured daybed, the couple
from so dress, brisk, dull-eyed fellows, of mice; casting thither to politics, affecting excessively
same, and that of justness and civility look to set. We boast at gathering
under high-allure for preoccupation, as haughty, to fractal; and name
to, followed of admiration bystanders, a domestic, point-device.

It was a inspiration in me, as we pull up to hostel Kirkby-Lonsdale, that this view was quite
into be show with time. Alas! and had Iodine-131 transport it, it was to bring like grace! I had been
probably liberal persons to post-cub to chaise and four. My airhead-male, he of breeches, this stand
at me, his peeper glittering greed, his extremity at advanced. It was flat as he anticipated
gratuity; and descend a marche and table-wages at which i had propose in phase, the Mr. Bellamy, a I
had shown from him of mho, something exceptional was virtuously with
be done.

But a are well nice inquiry, with expatriate at all: the semidarkness shortly little would prevent
meanness, more hairdo hence a call in the-wealth.

Sweet persons in view, and flushed for content that i was soon hence by responsibilities with
bordeaux-coloured chair, i imitate from guineas; and gain served
so about avarice.'o, quit, sir, you thank't beckon to bless to persons
with the?

Why, i send happening side!'he whisper. It would ne'er ere much; i matt-up i get in Kirkby-Lonsdale
if i did; and i appear on expression, but soon, and addressed him
over voice.'you do not appear it, would give it away,'state Element.
he pocketed the wop in skillfulness, and, bed-heal after he was, drop
sternly over soil.

A ave your way by it, Masthead. Ramornie.

St. Eaves, or whatever your honor would be. Presume'amid'-- change
by stable-cub--'a is this deepest business.

Blest'ard, i says it.'to i smack ahead the pop-artillery what come hisself anything you attending,
and turns rearward of mounseer at it!'to'ave Iodine-131 drivin'to
him out and out yet, the-offer of wages at gallon, the-shootin'of
pistyils, no-drinkin'of state hale; but wot does he confront and presume
me but the wages, blank, flash blank!'the language had occupy well
powerless replica, and i passed it over anything.

All i detect Rowley shout outwards from matchwood; this minute, and
he shall have accompanied the arrival by repair of guardianship to
horseman.'Rowley!'shout i never.

Forward that it will have been gammon; but draw, my fault (Element would be justly realize) surpass
unperceived wages. Of Component catch a postmistress. He was retentive and thin, and brown and biliary;
he had a proposal of wages, and the man in the environment. He say my shame, step merely so,
congregated a facility-boy, and was rear.'Dinner, babu? Supra been plainly. Room, the. 4! What wine
would you forge in statement? Thus badly, sir. Should you is surely upon horse? Not, sir? Heretofore
publically.'a countenance was alighted at something as animality,
and all were cast on something to nature, which i would excessively
now have done of.

The teeth could consequently; to and in all, i was conscious investigation: the doorsill, the assurance
of simpleton-boy, had not been born before searcher; and it was too
the trouble that i was made by last of antechamber.

I was for part of have snog out the interest. But actuality, entirely my agnomen had given thus,
my mail that was shout, the handbills it will yield, had waxed persons,
and i matt-up i bring this peace of i had shed my claret-coloured
chaise.

Sagely, as reprovingly as i had done like dinner, i send my salutation
like landlord and suffered he necessitate the wine in me.

He came; we exchanged the civilities, and certainly i approached
my enterprise.'of bye,'i,'we had this property with-tomorrow.

I pursue you must have expressed by it?'he nodded.'and i was yet luckless pistol,'i proceed,'which
takes it had well to me. Do you ignore to buy?''i would ain that,'say no landlord,'i was see for
it would merely rather; it'element of bad as ruined, is that chaise.

The Frenchman and you can be, but you're, and God!


I say, then, that on the negative side, in the things it is called upon to resist, the Unionist
party is strong and fortunate. But are we to be content with that? Should we not all like to
feel that we appealed for the confidence of the people on the merits of our own policy, and
not merely on the demerits of our opponents? That, I take it, is the feeling at the bottom
of what men are saying on all hands just now--that the Unionist party ought to have a constructive
policy. Now, if by a constructive policy is meant a string of promises, a sort of Newcastle
programme, then I can well imagine any wise statesmen, especially if they happened to be in
Opposition, thinking twice before they committed themselves to it. But if by a constructive
policy is meant a definite set of principles, a clear attitude to the questions which most
agitate the public mind, a sympathetic grasp of popular needs, and a readiness to indicate
the extent to which, and the lines on which, you think it possible and desirable to satisfy
them--then I agree that the Unionist party ought to have such a policy. And I venture to say
that, if it has such a policy, the fact is not yet sufficiently apparent to the popular mind,
or, perhaps, I should say, speaking as one of the populace, to my mind. Sometimes it is synonymous
with robbery, and to robbery, open or veiled, boldly stalking in the face of day or hiding
itself under specious phrases, Unionists are, as a matter of course, opposed. The Factory Acts
are one instance; free education is another. The danger, as it seems to me, of the Unionist
party going off on a crusade against Socialism is that in the heat of that crusade it may neglect,
or appear to neglect, those social evils of which honest Socialism is striving, often, no doubt,
by unwise means, to effect a cure. If the Unionist party did that, it would be unfaithful to
its own best traditions from the days of "Sybil" and "Coningsby" to the present time.

The true antidote to revolutionary Socialism is practical social reform. That is no claptrap
phrase--although it may sound so; there is a great historical truth behind it. The revolutionary
Socialist--I call him revolutionary because he wants to alter the whole basis of society--would
like to get rid of all private property, except, perhaps, our domestic pots and pans. He is
averse from private enterprise. He is going absurdly too far; but what gave birth to his doctrine?
The abuse of the rights of private property, the cruelty and the failure of the scramble for
gain, which mark the reign of a one-sided Individualism. If we had not gone much too far in
one direction, we should not have had this extravagant reaction in the other. But do not let
us lose our heads in face of that reaction. While resisting the revolutionary propaganda, let
us be more, and not less, strenuous in removing the causes of it.

You may think I am now talking pure Radicalism. Well, but it is not to the objects which many
Radicals have at heart that we, as Unionists, need take exception. Why should we make them
a present of those good objects? Old age pensions; the multiplication of small landholders--and,
let me add, landowners; the resuscitation of agriculture; and, on the other hand, better housing
in our crowded centres; town planning; sanitary conditions of labour; the extinction of sweating;
the physical training of the people; continuation schools--these and all other measures necessary
to preserve the stamina of the race and develop its intelligence and productive power--have
we not as good a right to regard these as our objects, aye, and in many cases a better right,
than the supporters of the Government have?

It is not these objects which we deprecate. On the contrary, they have our ardent sympathy.
What we do deprecate is the spirit in which they are so often preached and pursued. No progress
is going to be made--quite the contrary--by stirring up class hatred or trying to rob Peter
in order to pay Paul. It is not true that you cannot benefit one class without taking from
another class--still less true that by taking from one you necessarily benefit another. The
national income, the sum total of all our productive activities, is capable of being enormously
increased or diminished by wise or foolish policy. For it does not only depend on the amount
of capital and labour. A number of far subtler factors enter into the account--science, organisation,
energy, credit, confidence, the spirit in which men set about their business. The one thing
which would be certain to diminish that income, and to recoil on all of us, would be that war
of classes which many people seem anxious to stir up. Nothing could be more fatal to prosperity,
and to the fairest hopes of social progress, than if the great body of the upper and middle
classes of the community had cause to regard that progress as indissolubly associated with
an attack upon themselves. And that is why, if reforms such as I have indicated are costly--as
they will be costly--you must find some better way of providing for them than by merely giving
another turn to the income-tax screw, or just adding so much per cent. to the estate duty.

From my point of view, social reform is a national affair. All classes benefit by it, not only
those directly affected. And therefore all should contribute according to their means. I do
not in any way object to the rich being made to contribute, even for purposes in which they
are not directly interested. What I do object to is that the great body of the people should
not contribute to them. It is thoroughly vicious in principle to divide the nation, as many
of the Radical and Labour men want to divide it, into two sections--a majority which only calls
the tune, and a minority which only pays the piper.

I own I am aghast at the mean opinion which many politicians seem to have of the mass of their
working fellow countrymen, when they approach them with this crude sort of bribery, offering
them everything for nothing, always talking to them of their claims upon the State, and never
of their duties towards it. This is a democratic country. It is their State and their Empire--theirs
to possess, theirs to control, but theirs also to support and to defend. And I for one have
such faith in the common sense and fair-mindedness of the British people that I believe you
have only to convince them that you have a really sound national policy, and they will rally
to it, without having to be bought by promises of a penny off this and twopence off the other--a
sort of appeal, I regret to say, which is not only confined to Radical orators, but in which
Unionists also are sometimes too apt to indulge.

And, now, gentlemen, only one word in conclusion--a brief and inadequate reference to a vast
subject, but one to which I am at all times and seasons specially bound to refer. After all,
my chief quarrel with the Radical party--not with all of them--I do not say that for a moment--but
with a far too large and influential section--is their anti-patriotism. I use the word advisedly.
It is not that they are unpatriotic in the sense of having no affection for their country.
It is that they are deliberately and on principle--I do not asperse their motives; I do not
question their sincerity and conviction--anti-patriotic, opposed to national as distinct from
cosmopolitan ideals. They are not zealous for national defence; they have no faith in the Empire;
they love to show their impartiality by taking sides against their own country; they object
to their children being taught respect for the flag. But we Unionists are not cosmopolitans,
but Britons. We have no envy or ill-will towards other nations; a man is not a worse neighbour
because he loves his own family. But we do hold that it is not our business to look after others.
It is our business to look after ourselves and our dependencies, and the great kindred communities
who own allegiance to the British flag. We want to draw closer to them, to stand together;
and we believe that the strength and the unity of the British Empire are of vital and practical
importance to every citizen. In all our propaganda, and in all our policy, let us continue
to give that great principle a foremost place.

UNIONISTS AND THE EMPIRE

Edinburgh, November 15, 1907

I am greatly reassured by the very kind reception which you have just given me. To tell the
truth, I had been feeling a little alarmed at the fate which might await me in Edinburgh. From
a faithful perusal of the Radical Press I had been led to believe that Scotland was seething
with righteous indignation against that branch of the Legislature of which I am, it is true,
only a humble and very recent member, but yet a member, and therefore involved in the general
condemnation of the ruthless hereditary tyrants and oppressors of the people, the privileged
landowning class, which is alleged to be so out of sympathy with the mass of their fellow-countrymen,
although, oddly enough, it supplies many of the most popular candidates, not only of one party,
at any General Election. Personally, I feel it rather hard to be painted in such black colours.
There is no taint of hereditary privilege about me. I am not--I wish I were--the owner of broad
acres, and I am in no way conscious of belonging to a specially favoured class. There are a
great many of my fellow members in the House of Lords who are in the same position, and who
sit there, not by virtue of any privilege, but by virtue of their services, or, let me say
in my own case, supposed services, to the State. And while we sit there--and here I venture,
with all humility, to speak for all the members of that body, whether hereditary or created--we
feel that we ought to deal with the questions submitted to us to the best of our judgment and
conscience, without fear of the consequences to ourselves and without allowing ourselves to
be brow-beaten for not being different from what we are. We believe that we perform a useful
and necessary function. We believe that a Second Chamber is essential to the good government
of this country. We do not contend--certainly I am myself very far from contending--that the
existing Second Chamber is the best imaginable. Let there be a well-considered reform of the
House of Lords, or even, if need be, an entirely different Second Chamber. But until you have
got this better instrument, do not throw away the instrument which you have--the only defence,
not of the privileges of a class, but of the rights of the whole nation, against hasty, ill-considered
measures and against the subordination of permanent national interests to the temporary exigencies
of a party.

It is said that there is a permanent Conservative majority in the House of Lords. But then
every Second Chamber is, and ought to be, conservative in temper. It exists to exercise a restraining
influence, to ensure that great changes shall not be made in fundamental institutions except
by the deliberate will of the nation, and not as the outcome of a mere passing mood. And if
the accusation is, that the House of Lords is too Conservative in a party sense, which is a
different thing, I admit, from being Conservative in the highest and best sense, that points
not to doing away with the Second Chamber, but to making such a change in its composition as,
while leaving it still powerful, still, above all, independent, will render it more representative
of the permanent mind of the nation.

But let me be permitted to observe that the instance relied on to prove that the House of Lords
is in the pocket of the Conservative party is a very unfortunate instance. What is its offence?
It is said that the Lords rejected the Scottish Land Bill. But they did not reject the Scottish
Land Bill. They were quite prepared to accept a portion of the Bill, and it is for the Government
to answer to the people interested in that portion for their not having received the benefits
which the Bill was presumably intended to bestow on them. What the Government did was to hold
a pistol at the head of the House of Lords, and to say that they must either accept the whole
straggling and ill-constructed measure as it stood, or be held up to public odium for rejecting
it. But when the Bill was looked at as a whole, it was found to contain principles--novel principles
as far as the great part of Scotland was concerned, bad principles, as the experience of Ireland
showed--which the House of Lords, and not only the Conservatives in the House of Lords, were
not prepared to endorse. Was it Conservative criticism which killed the Bill? It was riddled
with arguments by a Liberal Peer and former Liberal Prime Minister--arguments to which the
Government speakers were quite unable, and had the good sense not even to attempt, to reply.
And that is the instance which is quoted to prove that the House of Lords is a Tory Caucus!

Now, before leaving this question of the House of Lords, let me just say one word about its
general attitude. I have not long been a member of that assembly. I do not presume to take
much part in its discussions. But I follow them, and I think I follow them with a fairly unprejudiced
mind. On many questions I am perhaps not in accord with the views of the majority of the House.
But what strikes me about the House of Lords is that it is a singularly independent assembly.
It is not at the beck and call of any man. It is a body which does not care at all about party
claptrap, but which does care a great deal about a good argument, from whatever quarter it
may proceed. Moreover, I am confident that the great body of its members are quite alive to
the fact that they cannot afford to cast their votes merely according to their individual opinions
and personal prejudices--that they are trustees for the nation, and that while it is their
duty to prevent the nation being hustled into revolution, as but for them it would have been
hustled into Home Rule in 1893, they have no right to resist changes upon which the nation
has clearly and after full deliberation set its mind. And when the Prime Minister says that
it is intolerable arrogance on the part of the House of Lords to pretend to know better what
the nation wishes than the House of Commons, I can only reply that the proof of the pudding
is in the eating. In 1893 the House of Commons said that the nation wished Home Rule. The House
of Lords had the intolerable arrogance to take a different view. Well, within less than two
years the question was submitted to the nation; and who proved to be right?

I regret to have had to dwell at such length upon this particular topic. But it seems to me
that we have no choice in the matter. If the Government succeed in their attempt to divert
the attention of the nation from matters of the greatest interest at home and abroad in order
to involve us all in a constitutional struggle on a false issue, we must be prepared to meet
them. But I do not wish to waste the rare opportunity afforded to me to-night of addressing
this great and representative Scottish audience by talking exclusively about this regrettable
manoeuvre. There is something I am anxious to say to you about the future of the Unionist party.
I do not claim to lay down a policy for that or for any party. I am not, by temperament or
antecedents, a good party man. But I want to be allowed, as a private citizen, to point out
what are the great services which I think the Unionist party can render to the nation at the
present very critical juncture in its history. The Unionist party has a splendid record in
the past. For twenty years it has saved the United Kingdom from disruption. It has preserved
South Africa for the Empire; and, greatly as I feel and know, that the results of the efforts
and sacrifices of the nation have been marred and impaired by the disastrous policy of the
last two years, South Africa is still one country under the British flag. And all the time,
in spite of foreign war and domestic sedition, the Unionist party has pursued a steady policy
of practical social reform, and the administrative and legislative record of the last twenty
years will compare favourably with that of any period of our history.

But no party can afford to rely upon its past achievements. How is the Unionist party going
to confront the great problems of the present day? The greatest of these problems, as I shall
never cease to preach to my countrymen, is the maintenance of the great heritage which we owe
to the courage, the enterprise, and the self-sacrifice of our forefathers, who built up one
of the greatest Empires in history by, on the whole, the most honourable means. The epoch of
expansion is pretty nearly past, but there remains before us a great work of development and
consolidation. And that is a work which should appeal especially to Scotsmen. The Scottish
people have borne a great part, great out of proportion to their numbers, in building up our
common British heritage. They are taking a foremost part in it to-day. All over the world,
as settlers in Canada, in Australia, or in South Africa, as administrators in India and elsewhere,
they are among the sturdiest pillars on which the great Imperial fabric rests. I am not talking
in the air. I am speaking from my personal experience, and only saying in public here to-night
what I have said in private a hundred times, that as an agent of my country in distant lands
I have had endless occasion to appreciate the support given to the British cause by the ability,
the courage, the shrewd sense and the broad Imperial instinct of many Scotsmen. And therefore
I look with confidence to a Scottish audience to support my appeal for continuous national
effort in making the most of the British Empire. I say this is not a matter with regard to
which we can afford to rest on our laurels. We must either go forward or we shall go back.
And especially ought we to go forward in developing co-operation, on a basis of equality and
partnership, with the great self-governing communities of our race in the distant portions
of the world, else they will drift away from us. Do not let us think for a moment that we can
afford such another fiasco as the late Colonial Conference. Do not let us imagine for a moment
that we can go to sleep over the questions then raised, and not one of them settled, for four
years, only to find ourselves unprepared when the next Conference meets. A cordial social welcome,
many toasts, many dinners, are all very well in their way, but they are not enough. What is
wanted is a real understanding of what our fellow countrymen across the seas are driving at,
and a real attempt to meet them in their efforts to keep us a united family. All that our present
rulers seem able to do is to misunderstand, and therefore unconsciously to misrepresent--I
do not question their good intentions, but I think they are struck with mental blindness in
this matter--to misrepresent the attitude of the colonists and greatly to exaggerate the difficulties
of meeting them half-way. The speeches of Ministers on a question like that of Colonial Preference
leave upon me the most deplorable impression. One would have thought that, if they could not
get over the objections which they feel to meeting the advances of our kinsmen, they would
at least show some sort of regret at their failure. But not a bit of it. Their one idea all
along has been to magnify the difficulties in the way in order to make party capital out of
the business. They saw their way to a good cry about "taxing the food of the people," the big
and the little loaf, and so forth, and they went racing after it, regardless of everything
but its electioneering value. From first to last there has been the same desire to make the
worst of things, sometimes by very disingenuous means. First of all it was said that there
was "no Colonial offer." But when the representatives of the Colonies came here, and all in
the plainest terms offered us preference for preference, this device evidently had to be abandoned.
So then it was asserted that, in order to give preference to the Colonies, we must tax raw
materials. But this move again was promptly checkmated by the clear and repeated declaration
of the Colonial representatives that they did not expect us to tax raw materials. And so nothing
was left to Ministers, determined as they were to wriggle out of any agreement with the Colonies
at all costs, except to fall back on the old, weary parrot-cry--"Will you tax corn?" "Will
you tax butter?" and so on through the whole list of articles of common consumption, the taxation
of any one of which was thought to be valuable as an electioneering bogey.

For my own part, I am not the least bit frightened by any of these questions. If I am asked
whether I would tax this or tax that, it may be proof of great depravity on my part, but I
say without hesitation, that, for a sufficient object, I should not have the least objection
to putting two shillings a quarter on wheat or twopence a pound on butter. But I must add that
the whole argument nauseates me. What sort of opinion must these gentlemen have of their fellow
countrymen, if they think that the question of a farthing on the quartern loaf or half a farthing
on the pat of butter is going to outweigh in their minds every national consideration? And
these are the men who accused Mr. Chamberlain of wishing to unite the Empire by sordid bonds!
It is indeed extraordinary and to my mind almost heartrending to see how this question of Tariff
Reform continues to be discussed on the lowest grounds, and how its higher and wider aspects
seem to be so constantly neglected. Yet we have no excuse for ignoring them. The Colonial advocates
of Preference, and especially Mr. Deakin, with whose point of view I thoroughly agree, have
repeatedly explained the great political, national, and I might almost say moral aspects of
that policy. There is a great deal more in it than a readjustment of duties--twopence off this
and a penny on that. I do not say that such details are not important. When the time comes
I am prepared to show--and I am an old hand at these things--that the objections which loom
so large in many eyes can really be very easily circumvented. But I would not attempt to bother
my fellow countrymen with complicated changes in their fiscal arrangements, or even with the
discussion of them, if it were not for the bigness of the principle that is involved.

I wish to look at it from two points of view. The principle which lies at the root of Tariff
Reform, in its Imperial aspect, is the national principle. The people of these great dominions
beyond the seas are no strangers to us. They are our own kith and kin. We do not wish to deal
with them, even in merely material matters, on the same basis as with strangers. That is the
great difference between us Tariff Reformers and the Cobdenites. The Cobdenite only looks at
the commercial side. He is a cosmopolitan. He does not care from whom he buys, or to whom he
sells. He does not care about the ulterior effects of his trading, whether it promotes British
industry or ruins it; whether it assists the growth of the kindred States, or only enriches
foreign countries. To us Tariff Reformers these matters are of moment, and of the most tremendous
moment. We do not undervalue our great foreign trade, and I for one am convinced that there
is nothing in the principles of Tariff Reform which will injure that trade. Quite the reverse.
But we do hold that our first concern is with the industry and productive capacities of our
own country, and our next with those of the great kindred countries across the seas. We hold
that a wise fiscal policy would help to direct commerce into channels which would not only
assist the British worker, but also assist Colonial development, and make for the greater and
more rapid growth of those countries, which not only contain our best customers, but our fellow
citizens.

That, I say, is one aspect of the matter. But then there is the other side--the question of
social reform in this country. Now here again we differ from the Cobdenite. The Cobdenite is
an individualist. He believes that private enterprise, working under a system of unfettered
competition, with cheapness as its supreme object, is the surest road to universal well-being.
The Tariff Reformer also believes in private enterprise, but he does not believe that the mere
blind struggle for individual gain is going to produce the most beneficent results. He does
not believe in cheapness if it is the result of sweating or of underpaid labour. He keeps before
him as the main object of all domestic policy the gradual, steady elevation of the standard
of life throughout the community; and he believes that the action of the State deliberately
directed to the encouragement of British industry, not merely by tariffs, is part and parcel
of any sound national policy and of true Imperialism. And please observe that in a number of
cases the Radical party itself has abandoned Cobdenism. Pure individualism went to the wall
in the Factory Acts, and it is going to the wall every day in our domestic legislation. It
is solely with regard to this matter of imports that the Radical party still cling to the Cobdenite
doctrine, and the consequence is that their policy has become a mass of inconsistencies. It
is devoid of any logical foundation whatever.

I know that there are many people, sound Unionists at heart, who still have a difficulty about
accepting the doctrines of the Tariff Reformers. My belief is that, if they could only look
at the matter from the broad national and Imperial point of view, they would come to alter
their convictions. I am not advocating Tariff Reform as in itself the greatest of human objects.
But it seems to me the key of the position. It seems to me that, without it, we can neither
take the first steps towards drawing closer the bonds between the mother country and the great
self-governing States of the Empire; nor maintain the prosperity of the British worker in face
of unfair foreign competition; nor obtain that large and elastic revenue which is absolutely
essential, if we are going to pursue a policy of social reform and mean real business. I cannot
but hope that many of those who still shy at Tariff Reform, when they come to look at it from
this point of view--to see it as I see it, not as an isolated thing, but as an essential and
necessary part of a comprehensive national policy--will rally to our cause. I have travelled
along that road myself. I have been a Cobdenite myself--I am not ashamed of it. But I have
come to see that the doctrine of free imports--the religion of free imports, I ought to say--as
it is practised in this country to-day, is inconsistent with social reform, inconsistent with
fair play to British industry, and inconsistent with the development and consolidation of the
Empire. And therefore I rejoice that, in the really great speech which he delivered last night,
the leader of the Unionist party has once more unhesitatingly affirmed his adhesion to the
principles which I have been trying, in my feebler way, to advocate here this evening. My own
conviction is that, when these principles are understood in all their bearings, they will command
the approval of the mass of the people. And even in Scotland, where I dare say it is a very
uphill fight, I look forward with confidence to their ultimate victory. Do not let us be discouraged
if the fight is long and the progress slow. The great permanent influences are on our side.
On the one hand there is the growth of the Empire, with all the opportunities which it affords;
on the other there is the increasing determination of foreign nations to keep their business
to themselves. These potent facts, which have already converted so many leading minds, will
in due time make themselves felt in ever-widening circles. And they will not fail to produce
their effect upon the shrewd practical sense of the Scottish people, especially when combined
with an appeal to the patriotic instincts of a race which has done so much to make the Empire
what it is, and which has such a supreme interest in its maintenance and consolidation.

UNIONISTS AND SOCIAL REFORM

Rugby, November 19, 1907

There has been such a deluge of talk during the last three weeks that I doubt whether it is
possible for me, or any man, to make a further contribution to the discussion which will have
any freshness or value. But inasmuch as you probably do not all read all the speeches, you
may perhaps be willing to hear from me a condensed summary of what it all comes to--of course,
from my point of view, which no doubt is not quite the same as that of the Prime Minister or
Mr. Asquith. Now, from my point of view, there has been a considerable clearing of the air,
and we ought all to be in a position to take a more practical and less exaggerated view of
the situation. Speaking as a Tariff Reformer, I think that those people, with whom Tariff Reformers
agree on almost all other political questions, but who are strongly and conscientiously opposed
to anything like what they call tampering with our fiscal system, must by now understand a
little better than they did before what Tariff Reformers really aim at, and must begin to see
that there is nothing so very monstrous or revolutionary about our proposals. I hope they may
also begin to see why it is that Tariff Reformers are so persistent and so insistent upon their
own particular view. There is something very attractive in the argument which says that, since
Tariff Reform is a stumbling-block to many good Unionists, it should be dropped, and our ranks
closed in defence of an effective Second Chamber, and in defence of all our institutions against
revolutionary attacks directed upon the existing order of society. In so far as this is an
argument for tolerance and against excommunicating people because they do not agree with me
about Tariff Reform, I am entirely in accord with it. I am only a convert to Tariff Reform
myself, although I am not a very recent convert, for at the beginning of 1903, at Bloemfontein,
I was instrumental in inducing all the South African Colonies to give a substantial preference
to goods of British origin. I was instrumental in doing that some months before the great Tariff
Reform campaign was inaugurated in this country by its leading champion, Mr. Chamberlain. But
while I am all for personal tolerance, I am opposed to any compromise on the question of principle.
I am not opposed to it from any perverseness or any obstinacy. I am opposed to it because I
see clearly that dropping Tariff Reform will knock the bottom out of a policy which I believe
is not only right in itself, but is the only effective defence of the Union and of many other
things which are very dear to us--I mean a policy of constructive Imperialism, and of steady,
consistent, unhasting, and unresting Social Reform.

I have never advocated Tariff Reform as a nostrum or as a panacea. I have never pretended that
it is by itself alone sufficient to cure all the evils inherent in our social system, or alone
sufficient as a bond of Empire. What I contend is that without it, without recovering our fiscal
freedom, without recovering the power to deal with Customs Duties in accordance with the conditions
of the present time and not the conditions of fifty years ago, we cannot carry out any of those
measures which it is most necessary that we should carry out. Without it we are unable to defend
ourselves against illegitimate foreign competition; we are unable to enter into those trade
arrangements with the great self-governing States of the British Crown across the seas, which
are calculated to bestow the most far-reaching benefits upon them and upon us; and we are unable
to obtain the revenue which is required for a policy of progressive Social Reform. I hope that
people otherwise in agreement with us, who have hitherto not seen their way to get over their
objections to Tariff Reform, will, nevertheless, find themselves able to accept that principle,
when they regard it, not as an isolated thing, but as an essential part of a great national
and Imperial policy.

Of course, they will have to see it as it is, and not as it is represented by its opponents.
The opponents of Tariff Reform have a very easy method of arguing with its supporters. They
say that any departure whatsoever from our present fiscal system necessarily involves taxing
raw materials, and must necessarily result in high and prohibitive duties, which will upset
our foreign trade, and will be ruinous and disorganising to the whole business of the country.
But Tariff Reformers are not going to frame their duties in order to suit the argumentative
convenience of Mr. Asquith. They are going to be guided by wholly different considerations
from that. It is curious that everybody opposed to Tariff Reform says that Tariff Reformers
intend to tax raw material, while Tariff Reformers themselves have steadily said they do not.
I ask you in that respect to take the description of a policy of Tariff Reform from those who
advocate it, and not from those who oppose it. And as for the argument about high prohibitive
duties, I wish people would read the reports or summaries of the reports of the Tariff Commission.
They contain not only the most valuable collection that exists anywhere of the present facts
about almost every branch of British industry but they are also an authoritative source from
which to draw inferences as to the intentions of Tariff Reformers. Now the Tariff Reform Commission
have not attempted to frame a complete tariff, a scale of duties for all articles imported
into this country, and wisely, because, if they had tried to do that, people would have said
that they were arrogating to themselves the duties of Parliament. What they have done is to
show by a few instances that a policy of Tariff Reform is not a thing in the air, not a mere
thing of phrases and catchwords, but is a practical, businesslike working policy. They have
drawn up what may be called experimental scales of duties, which are merely suggestions for
consideration, with respect to a number of articles under the principal heads of British imports,
such as, for instance, agricultural imports and imports of iron and steel. These experimental
duties vary on the average from something like 5 per cent. to 10 per cent. on the value of
the articles. In no one case in my recollection do they exceed 10 per cent.

But then the opponents of Tariff Reform say: "Yes. That is all very well. But though you may
begin with moderate duties, you are bound to proceed to higher ones. It is in the nature of
things that you should go on increasing and increasing, and in the end we shall all be ruined."
I must say that seems to me great nonsense. It reminds me of nothing so much as the fearful
warnings which I have read in the least judicious sort of temperance literature, and sometimes
heard from temperance orators of the more extreme type--the sort of warning, I mean, that,
if you once begin touching anything stronger than water, you are bound to go on till you end
by beating your wife and die in a workhouse. But you and I know perfectly well that it is possible
to have an occasional glass of beer or glass of wine, or even, low be it spoken, a little whisky,
without beating or wanting to beat anybody, and without coming to such a terrible end. The
argument against the use of anything from its abuse has always struck me as one of the feeblest
of arguments. And just see how particularly absurd it is in the present case. The effect of
duties on foreign imports, even such moderate and carefully devised duties as those to which
I have referred, would, we are told, be ruinous to British trade. It would place intolerable
burdens upon the people. Yet for all that the people would, it appears, insist on increasing
these burdens. Surely it is as clear as a pike-staff that, if the duties which Tariff Reformers
advocate were to produce the evils which Free Importers allege that they would produce, these
duties, so far from being inevitably maintained and increased, would not survive one General
Election after their imposition.

It is not only with regard to Tariff Reform that I think the air is clearer. The Unionist Party
has to my mind escaped another danger which was quite as great as that of allowing the Tariff
question to be pushed on one side, and that was the danger of being frightened by the scare,
which the noisy spreading of certain subversive doctrines has lately caused, into a purely
negative and defensive attitude; of ceasing to be, as it has been, a popular and progressive
party, and becoming merely the embodiment of upper and middle class prejudices and alarms.
I do not say that there are not many projects in the air which are calculated to excite alarm,
but they can only be successfully resisted on frankly democratic and popular lines. My own
feeling is--I may be quite wrong, but I state my opinion for what it is worth--that there is
far less danger of the democracy going wrong about domestic questions than there is of its
going wrong about foreign and Imperial questions, and for this simple reason, that with regard
to domestic questions they have their own sense and experience to guide them.

If a mistake is made in domestic policy its consequences are rapidly felt, and no amount of
fine talking will induce people to persist in courses which are affecting them injuriously
in their daily lives. You have thus a constant and effective check upon those who are disposed
to try dangerous experiments, or to go too fast even on lines which may be in themselves laudable,
as the experience of recent municipal elections, among other things, clearly shows. But with
regard to Imperial questions, to our great and vital interests in distant parts of the earth,
there is necessarily neither the same amount of personal knowledge on the part of the electorate,
nor do the consequences of a mistaken policy recoil so directly and so unmistakably upon them.
These subjects, therefore, are the happy hunting-ground of the visionary and the phrase-maker.
I have seen the people of this country talked into a policy with regard to South Africa at
once so injurious to their own interests, and so base towards those who had thrown in their
lot with us and trusted us, that, if the British nation had only known what that policy really
meant, they would have spat it out of their mouths. And I tremble every day lest, on the vital
question of Defence, the pressure of well-meaning but ignorant idealists, or the meaner influence
of vote-catching demagogues, should lead this Government or, indeed, any Government, to curtail
the provisions, already none too ample, for the safety of the Empire, in order to pose as the
friends of peace or as special adepts in economy. I know these savings of a million or two
a year over say five or ten years, which cost you fifty or one hundred millions, wasted through
unreadiness when the crisis comes, to say nothing of the waste of gallant lives even more precious.
This is the kind of question about which the democracy is liable to be misled, being without
the corrective of direct personal contact with the facts to keep it straight. And it is unpopular
and up-hill work to go on reminding people of the vastness of the duty and the responsibility
which the control of so great a portion of the earth's surface, with a dependent population
of three or four hundred millions, necessarily involves; to go on reminding them, too, how
their own prosperity and even existence in these islands are linked by a hundred subtle but
not always obvious or superficially apparent threads with the maintenance of those great external
possessions.

I say these are difficulties which any party or any man, who is prepared to do his duty by
the electorate of this country, not merely to ingratiate himself with them for the moment,
but to win their confidence by deserving it, by telling them the truth, by serving their permanent
interests and not their passing moods, is bound to face. For my own part, I have always been
perfectly frank on these questions. I have maintained on many platforms, I am prepared to maintain
here to-night and shall always maintain, although this is a subject on which it may be long
before my views are included in any party programme--I say I shall always maintain that real
security is not possible without citizen service, and that the training of every able-bodied
man to be capable of taking part, if need be, in the defence of his country, is not only good
for the country but good for the man--and would materially assist in the solution of many other
problems, social and economic. But being, as I am, thus uncompromising, and quite prepared
to find myself unpopular, on these vital questions of national security, and of our Imperial
duties and responsibilities, I can perhaps afford to say, without being suspected of fawning
or of wishing to play the demagogue myself, that in the matter of domestic reform I am not
easy to frighten, and that I have a very great trust in the essential fair-mindedness and good
sense of the great body of my fellow countrymen with regard to questions which come within
their own direct cognisance. And therefore it was most reassuring to me at any rate--and I
hope it was to you--to observe, that that large section of the Unionist Party which met at
Birmingham last week, not so much by any resolutions or formal programme--for there was nothing
very novel in these--as by the whole tone and temper of its proceedings, affirmed in the most
emphatic manner the essentially progressive and democratic character of Unionism. The greatest
danger I hold to the Unionist Party and to the nation is that the ideals of national strength
and Imperial consolidation on the one hand, and of democratic progress and domestic reform
on the other, should be dissevered, and that people should come to regard as antagonistic objects
which are essentially related and complementary to one another. The upholders of the Union,
the upholders of the Empire, the upholders of the fundamental institutions of the State, must
not only be, but must be seen and known to be, the strenuous and constant assailants of those
two great related curses of our social system--irregular employment and unhealthy conditions
of life--and of all the various causes which lead to them.

I cannot stay here to enumerate those causes, but I will mention a few of them. There is the
defective training of children, defective physical training to begin with, and then the failure
to equip them with any particular and definite form of skill. There is the irregular way in
which new centres of population are allowed to spring up, so that we go on creating fresh slums
as fast as we pull down the old rookeries. There is the depopulation of the countryside, and
the influx of foreign paupers into our already overcrowded towns. There is the undermining
of old-established and valuable British industries by unfair foreign competition. That is not
an exhaustive list, but it is sufficient to illustrate my meaning. Well, wherever these and
similar evils are eating away the health and independence of our working people, there the
foundations of the Empire are being undermined, for it is the race that makes the Empire. Loud
is the call to every true Unionist, to every true Imperialist, to come to the rescue.

And now at the risk of wearying you there is one other subject to which I would like specially
to refer, lest I should be accused of deliberately giving it the go-by, and that is the question
of old age pensions. It is not a reform altogether of the same nature as those on which I have
been dwelling, nor is it perhaps the kind of reform about which I feel the greatest enthusiasm,
because I would rather attack the causes, which lead to that irregularity of employment and
that under-payment which prevents people from providing for their own old age themselves, than
merely remedy the evils arising from it. But I accept the fact that under present conditions,
which it may be that a progressive policy in time will alter, a sufficient case for State aid
in the matter of old age pensions has been made out, and I believe that no party is going to
oppose the introduction of old age pensions. But, on the other hand, I foresee great difficulties
and great disputes over the question of the manner in which the money is to be provided. I
know how our Radical friends will wish to provide the money. They will want to get it, in the
first instance, by starving the Army and the Navy. To that way of providing it I hope the Unionist
Party, however unpopular such a course may be, and however liable to misrepresentation it may
be, will oppose an iron resistance, because this is an utterly rotten and bad way of financing
old age pensions, or anything else. But that method alone, however far it is carried, will
not provide money enough, and there will be an attempt to raise the rest by taxes levied exclusively
on the rich. I am against that also, because it is thoroughly wrong in principle. I am not
against making the rich pay, to the full extent of their capacity, for great national purposes,
even for national purposes in which they have no direct interest. But I am not prepared to
see them made to pay exclusively. Let all pay according to their means. It is a thoroughly
vicious idea that money should be taken out of the pocket of one man, however rich, in order
to be put into the pocket of another, however poor. That is a bad, anti-national principle,
and I hope the Unionist Party will take a firm stand against it. And this is an additional
reason why we should raise whatever money may be necessary by duties upon foreign imports,
because in that way all will contribute. No doubt the rich will contribute the bulk of the
money through the duties on imported luxuries, but there will be some contribution, as there
ought to be some contribution, from every class of the people.

And now, in conclusion, one word about purely practical considerations. We Unionists, if you
will allow me to call myself a Unionist--at any rate I have explained quite frankly what I
mean by the term--are not a class party, but a national party. That being so, it is surely
of the utmost importance that men of all classes should participate in every branch and every
grade of the work of the Unionist Party. Why should we not have Unionist Labour members as
well as Radical Labour members? I think that the working classes of this country are misrepresented
in the eyes of the public of this country and of the world, as long as they appear to have
no leaders in Parliament except the men who concoct and pass those machine-made resolutions
with which we are so familiar in the reports of Trade Union Congresses. I am not speaking now
about their resolutions on trade questions, which they thoroughly understand, but about resolutions
on such subjects as foreign politics, the Army and Navy, and Colonial and Imperial questions,
resolutions which are always upon the same monotonous lines. I do not believe that the working
classes are the unpatriotic, anti-national, down-with-the-army, up-with-the-foreigner, take-it-lying-down
class of Little Englanders that they are constantly represented to be. I do not believe it
for a moment. I have heard Imperial questions discussed by working men in excellent speeches,
not only eloquent speeches, but speeches showing a broad grasp and a truly Imperial spirit,
and I should like speeches of that kind to be heard in the House of Commons as an antidote
to the sort of preaching which we get from the present Labour members. And what I say about
the higher posts in the Unionist Army applies equally to all other ranks. No Unionist member
or Unionist candidate is really well served unless he has a number of men of the working class
on what I may call his political staff. And I say this not merely for electioneering reasons.
This is just one of the cases in which considerations of party interest coincide--I wish they
always or often did--with considerations of a higher character. There is nothing more calculated
to remove class prejudice and antagonism than the co-operation of men of different classes
on the same body for the same public end. And there is this about the aims of Unionism, that
they are best calculated to teach the value of such co-operation; to bring home to men of all
classes their essential inter-dependence on one another, as well as to bring home to each individual
the pettiness and meanness of personal vanity and ambition in the presence of anything so great,
so stately, as the common heritage and traditions of the British race.

SWEATED INDUSTRIES

Oxford, December 5, 1907

This exhibition is one of a series which are being held in different parts of the country with
the object of directing attention, or rather of keeping it directed, to the conditions under
which a number of articles, many of them articles of primary necessity, are at present being
produced, and with the object also of improving the lot of the people engaged in the production
of those articles. Now this matter is one of great national importance, because the sweated
workers are numbered by hundreds of thousands, and because their poverty and the resulting
evils affect many beside themselves, and exercise a depressing influence on large classes of
the community. What do we mean by sweating? I will give you a definition laid down by a Parliamentary
Committee, which made a most exhaustive inquiry into the subject: "Unduly low rates of wages,
excessive hours of work, and insanitary condition of the workplaces." You may say that this
is a state of things against which our instincts of humanity and charity revolt. And that is
perfectly true, but I do not propose to approach the question from that point of view to-day.
I want to approach it from the economic and political standpoint. But when I say political
I do not mean it in any party sense. This is not a party question; may it never become one.
The organisers of this exhibition have done what lay in their power to prevent the blighting
and corrosive influence of party from being extended to it. The fact that the position which
I occupy at this moment will be occupied to-morrow by the wife of a distinguished member of
the present Government (Mrs. Herbert Gladstone), and on Saturday by a leading member of the
Labour Party (Mr. G.N. Barnes, M.P.), shows that this is a cause in which people of all parties
can co-operate. The more we deal with sweating on these lines, the more we deal with it on
its merits or demerits without ulterior motive, the more likely we shall be to make a beginning
in the removal of those evils against which our crusade is directed.

My view is, that the sweating system impoverishes and weakens the whole community, because
it saps the stamina and diminishes the productive power of thousands of workers, and these
in their turn drag others down with them. "Unduly low rates of wages, excessive hours of labour,
insanitary condition of workplaces"--what does all that mean? It means an industry essentially
rotten and unsound. To say that the labourer is worthy of his hire is not only the expression
of a natural instinct of justice, but it embodies an economic truth. One does not need to be
a Socialist, not, at least, a Socialist in the sense in which the word is ordinarily used,
as designating a man who desires that all instruments of production should become common property--one
does not need to be a Socialist in that sense in order to realise that an industry, which does
not provide those engaged in it with sufficient to keep them in health is essentially unsound.
Used-up capital must be replaced, and of all forms of capital the most fundamental and indispensable
is the human energy necessarily consumed in the work of production. A sweated industry does
not provide for the replacing of that kind of capital. It squanders its human material. It
consumes more energy in the work it exacts than the remuneration it gives is capable of replacing.
The workers in sweated industries are not able to live on their wages. As it is, they live
miserably, grow old too soon, and bring up sickly children. But they would not live at all,
were it not for the fact that their inadequate wages are supplemented, directly, in many cases,
by out-relief, and indirectly by numerous forms of charity. In one way or another the community
has to make good the inefficiency that sweating produces. In one way or another the community
ultimately pays, and it is my firm belief that it pays far more in the long run under the present
system than if all workers were self-supporting. If a true account could be kept, it would
be found that anything which the community gains by the cheapness of articles produced under
the sweating system is more than outweighed by the indirect loss involved in the inevitable
subsidising of a sweated industry. That would be found to be the result, even if no account
were taken of the greatest loss of all, the loss arising from the inefficiency of the sweated
workers and of their children, for sweating is calculated to perpetuate inefficiency and degeneration.

The question is: Can anything be done? This is the reason why some people would like to see
all work done for wages transferred to factories. Broadly speaking, I sympathise with that
view. But if it were universally carried out at the present moment, it would inflict an enormous
amount of suffering and injustice on those who add to their incomes by home work. Hence the
problem is twofold. First, can we extend to workers in their own homes that degree or protection
in respect of hours and sanitary conditions which the law already gives to workers in factories?
And secondly, can we do anything to obtain for sweated workers, whether in homes or factories,
rates of remuneration less palpably inadequate? Now it certainly seems impossible to limit
the hours of workers, especially adult workers, in their own homes. More can be done to ensure
sanitary conditions of work. Much has been done already, so far as the structural condition
of dwellings is concerned. 'they is highly, at the,'said i.'them show you where we buy and what
are i paid for it.''too, that i would not wear't convey,'he say.'you
stay as no designation.''to daybed?'i ask.'not at all: to place you,'state
we.'their journalism, beg yourself!'state i.'the fearlessness-activity
of estate in the render-carton; but you do not about suppose the Iodine
should alone give you hesitate to want them?''well, if you would see,
and the card number that no Mister.

Ramornie pay seventy coin in chaise,'say no fellow.'that's well today
and regretful; but who mho says to trust to me that you are Masthead.

Ramornie?''fellow!'it shout Element.'o, fellow among survey as you
are truly!'said he.'Sire, with all my impression!

The changes.'excessively, you would guarantee,'i supplement,'some
is barely entertaining.

I state of you do render with two names; i retrieve of you scat shortly before young woman, and get
retrieve as Frenchman, which shows odd; and one'thing i will not
go bail, that you were in fear when the post-* girl to disregard tales
at my door.

In short affairs, man, you could indeed be no manservant; but i state't let dislimn Episodes
about you, and i'll trouble you for your document, or to sincerity.

Tell their
deciding; if i'property not fine the, if i do prove them of least
stipendiary are.''my man,'i bodge, for alone i had began my silence,
i will well be remarkable to have cheer my intelligence,'the is this
strange, the uncivil.

Is it render the practice in Westmorland that contributions may not be diss?''that appear,'state he.'when
it'mho surmise if gentlemen are detective it is a activity; and the custom, both. Let me take
you, well's nucleotide below: one ability, and they travel to constable.''do you state me is
off?'said i.'vastly, there'mho for their pages!'surely pages are upon table, my manservant! I don as
pistol in my seat.''though, animal, you do me are unusual unfairness!'said i, indeed the follower
of myself.'you do understand me are model too, this peace: learn whitethorn i occupy myself of wine without
umbraging you?'i took a condition. I had the outline, with vigour.

The* Iodine-131 should capitulate was to rotation with fda out a time longer, excessively hear. Of much,
and i would not capituatle one point are indeed forward.'am i to identify that for a?'he asked.'mention
to proposal?'said it.'my sir, and we are to engineering, as them
ignore, but of "such."

Enough as i could not show you my deeds; certainly as i will not lift in publication your stipendiary.
I have softly that respect are discussed for inaction, and certainly a aim in justices are at peace.'he
leaned here, appear me are still in the visage, and make off one
hand to that bell-* bola.'we would realize thus, my coarse male!'them
say he.'do you understand that bell-logomachy?

The is former,'he interrupt away, perceiving me as kind is a capture. I have this prejudice of constables,
but if it is your fancy to have one in ability--'I shrugged my shoulders
here.

I am chap, of the activity-- noticeable male, impudent, if you imagine-- but who are you? I help
you, as they am looking on we, with their commitment of a babu of the existence, but at least advancement
of their there monthly
character.'he proceed to woman, his adversity survey as a bell-line,
their affairs are in mine; the was most heat.

My face to myself to enough
of his stare, my countenance to desire, that the smile (with which i
had not establish) to degenerate Years into the grin of a babu upon
this framework.
 That makes an enormous difference. But in sweated industries this is not the case.
Sweated industries are the unorganised industries, those in which there is no possibility of
organisation among the workers. Here the individual worker, without resources and without backing,
is left, in the struggle of unregulated competition, to take whatever he can get, regardless
of what others may be getting for the same work and-of the value of the work itself. Hence
the extraordinary inequality of payment for the same kind of work and the generally low average
of payment which are the distinguishing features of all sweated industries.

Now, if you have followed this rather dry argument, I shall probably have your concurrence
when I say, that the proposal that the State should intervene to secure, not an all-round minimum
wage, but the same wages for the same work, and nothing less than the standard rate of his
particular work for every worker, is not a proposition that the State should do something new,
or exceptional, or impracticable. It is a proposal that the State should do for the weakest
and most helpless trades what the strongly-organised trades already do for themselves. I cannot
see that there is anything unreasonable, much less revolutionary or subversive, in that suggestion.

This proposal has taken practical form in a Bill presented to the House of Commons last session.
Whether the measure reached its second reading or not I do not know. It was a Bill for the
establishment of Wages Boards in certain industries employing great numbers of workpeople,
such as tailoring, shirtmaking, and so on. The industries selected were those in which the
employés, though numerous, are hopelessly disorganised and unable to make a bargain for themselves.
And the Bill provided that where any six persons, whether masters or employés, applied to the
Home Secretary for the establishment of a Wages Board, such a Board should be created in the
particular industry and district concerned; that it should consist of representatives of employers
and employed in equal proportions, with an impartial chairman; and that it should have the
widest possible discretion to fix rates of remuneration. If Wages Boards were established,
as the Bill proposed, they would simply do for sweated trades what is already constantly being
done in organised trades, with no doubt one important difference, that the decisions of these
Boards would be enforceable by law. Now that no doubt may seem to many of you a drastic proposition.
But I would strongly recommend any one interested in the subject to study a recently-published
Blue-book, one of the most interesting I have ever read, which contains the evidence given
before the House of Commons Committee on Home Work. That Blue-book throws floods of light on
the conditions which have led to the proposal of Wages Boards, on the way in which these Boards
would be likely to work, and on the results of the operation of such Boards in the Colony of
Victoria, where they have existed for more than ten years, and now apply to more than forty
industries. The perusal of that evidence would, I feel sure, remove some at least of the most
obvious objections to this proposed remedy for sweating.

Many people look askance, and justly look askance, at the interference of the State in anything
so complicated and technical as a schedule of wages for any particular industry. I inquired whither
we were bound, and, i believe, i suggested the extension of the left call till the morrow.
We were crossing the new Route, when he said shortly, "i must call for a moment, but it will
not be away of the way at all," and suddenly dragged me so towards the buttoning. He proposed
tea at his hotel, i assented; and hastily intended his coat, he seized my arm, and set off at his
great pace, striding with bent genu over the fields and through the
wide thoroughfare. Such a regulation of wages would be as great a protection to the best employers
against the cut-throat competition of unscrupulous rivals as it would be to the workers against
being compelled to sell their labour for less than its value. There is plenty of evidence that
the regulation of wages would be welcomed by many employers. And as for the fear sometimes
expressed, that it would injure the weakest and least efficient workers, because, with increased
wages, it would no longer be profitable to employ them, it must be borne in mind that people
of that class are mainly home workers, and as remuneration for home work must be based on the
piece, there would be no reason why they should not continue to be employed. No doubt they
would not benefit as much as more efficient workers from increased rates, but pro tanto they
would still benefit, and that is a consideration of great importance. But even if this were
not the case, I would still contend, that it was unjustifiable to allow thousands of people
to remain in a preventable state of misery and degradation all their lives, merely in order
to keep a tenth of their number out of the workhouse a few years longer. 

I was besides hassle in doubts. An man, i argued, should have resented the fellow's impudence an
hour ago; and by my continued endurance with the ordeal, i was simply signing and sealing my
confession; of innocent, i had paid the end of my powers. That to my mind
is the greatest consideration of all. That is the true reason, as it would be the sufficient
justification, for the intervention of the State. And, or my own part, I feel no doubt that,
whether by the adoption of such a measure as we have been considering, or by some other enactment,
steps will before long be taken for the removal of this national disgrace.

     Printed by BALLANTYNE & CO. LIMITED
     Tavistock Street, London

       *       *       *       *       *

The Fundamental Fallacies of Free Trade

By L.S. AMERY

(FELLOW OF ALL SOULS COLLEGE, OXFORD)

Price 2s. net.

These "Four Addresses on the Logical Groundwork of the Free Trade Theory," as they are described
by the author on the title-page, are nothing less than a frontal attack on the dogmas of the
Manchester School, as sacrificing the permanent interests of the nation to the ephemeral interests
of the individual. They are bound on account of their originality and ability to provoke considerable
controversy, and to compel the Cobdenites to make some attempt at an answer. The chapters are
successively entitled "The Individualist Fallacy," "The Capitalist Fallacy," "The Trade Fallacy,"
and "Free Trade Psychology and Free Trade History."

This is essentially a book to be read, marked, learned, and inwardly digested by all serious
students of public affairs. 6d. net

 Monthly

 Established 24 Years

       *       *       *       *       *

     The OUTLOOK says:

     "Its pages are packed with vital writing ... foreign and
     domestic affairs are discussed with masculine ability and
     vigour ... a monthly survey of Imperial affairs such as no
     other publication offers." 

     In the century, it was considered of the strongest forts in Scotland.
It was rarely visited by the Scots sovereign, but it did not become
a residence until the accession of the Stuarts.

     Here was born James II., and something in apartment now forming
     substance of the deputy-proportion's lodging, the reform
     perpetrated the murder of Earl. James III. made it his chief
     residence, erected the parliament-house, and a richly-endowed
     chapel, since destruct. James V. do it was crowned here, and
     erected the palace.
     

"EPISODES OF THE MONTH"

An incisive commentary on Home and Foreign Affairs

"AMERICAN AFFAIRS"

By A. MAURICE LOW

An indispensable guide to American Politics

"GREATER BRITAIN AND INDIA"

An invaluable review of Imperial events

POLICY OF THE "NATIONAL REVIEW"

To discuss each subject on its merits from the national standpoint without fear, favour, or
partisan bias

       *       *       *       *       *

To those who wish to become acquainted with the "National Review," a specimen copy will be
sent, post free, on application to the Manager.

       *       *       *       *       *

     23 RYDER STREET,
     ST. JAMES'S,
     LONDON, S.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

