"I should have thought it easy work. Look at your father. He keeps a curate and doesn't take
any trouble himself. Upon my word, if I'd known as much then as I do now, I'd have had a shy
for it myself. Hugh couldn't have refused it to me."

"But Hugh can't give it while his uncle holds it."

"That would have been against me to be sure, and your governor's life is pretty nearly as good
as mine. I shouldn't have liked waiting; so I suppose it's as well as it is."

There may perhaps have been other reasons why Archie Clavering's regrets that he did not take
holy orders were needless. He had never succeeded in learning anything that any master had
ever attempted to teach him, although he had shown considerable aptitude in picking up acquirements
for which no regular masters are appointed. He knew the fathers and mothers--sires and dams
I ought perhaps to say--and grandfathers and grandmothers, and so back for some generations,
of all the horses of note living in his day. He knew also the circumstances of all races--what
horses would run at them, and at what ages, what were the stakes, the periods of running, and
the special interests of each affair. But not, on that account, should it be thought that the
turf had been profitable to him. That it might become profitable at some future time, was possible;
but Captain Archibald Clavering had not yet reached the profitable stage in the career of a
betting man, though perhaps he was beginning to qualify himself for it. He was not bad-looking,
though his face was unprepossessing to a judge of character. He was slight and well made about
five feet nine in height, with light brown hair, which had already left the top of his head
bald, with slight whiskers, and a well-formed moustache. But the peculiarity of his face was
in his eyes. His eyebrows were light-colored and very slight, and this was made more apparent
by the skin above the eyes, which was loose and hung down over the outside corners of them,
giving him a look of cunning which was disagreeable. He seemed always to be speculating, counting
up the odds, and calculating whether anything could be done with the events then present before
him. And he was always ready to make a bet, being ever provided with a book for that purpose.
He would take the odds that the sun did not rise on the morrow, and would either win the bet
or wrangle in the losing of it. He would wrangle, but would do so noiselessly, never on such
occasions damaging his cause by a loud voice. He was now about thirty-three years of age, and
was two years younger than the baronet. Sir Hugh was not a gambler like his brother, but I
do not know that he was therefore a more estimable man. He was greedy and anxious to increase
his store, never willing to lose that which he possessed, fond of pleasure, but very careful
of himself in the enjoyment of it, handsome, every inch an English gentleman in appearance,
and therefore popular with men and women of his own class who were not near enough to him to
know him well, given to but few words, proud of his name, and rank, and place, well versed
in the business of the world, a match for most men in money matters, not ignorant, though he
rarely opened a book, selfish, and utterly regardless of the feelings of all those with whom
he came in contact. Such were Sir Hugh Clavering and his brother the captain.

Sir Hugh took Florence in to dinner, and when the soup had been eaten made an attempt to talk
to her. "How long have you been here, Miss Burton?"

"Nearly a week," said Florence.

"Ah; you came to the wedding; I was sorry I couldn't be here. It went off very well, I suppose?"

"Very well indeed, I think."

"They're tiresome things in general--weddings. Don't you think so?"

"Oh, dear, no--except that some person one loves is always being taken away."

"You'll be the next person to be taken away yourself; I suppose?"

"I must be the next person at home, because I am the last that is left. All my sisters are
married."

"And how many are there?"

"There are five married."

"Good heavens--five!"

"And they are all married to men in the same profession as Harry."

"Quite a family affair," said Sir Hugh. Harry, who was sitting on the other side of Florence,
heard this, and would have preferred that Florence should have said nothing about her sisters.
"Why, Harry," said the baronet, "if you will go into partnership with your father-in-law and
all your brothers-in-law you could stand against the world."

"You might add my four brothers," said Florence, who saw no shame in the fact that they were
all engaged in the same business.

"Good heaven!" exclaimed Sir Hugh, and after that he did not say much more to Florence.

The rector had taken Lady Clavering in to dinner, and they two did manage to carry on between
them some conversation respecting the parish affairs. Lady Clavering was not active among the
poor--nor was the rector himself, and perhaps neither of them knew how little the other did;
but they could talk Clavering talk, and the parson was willing to take for granted his neighbor's
good will to make herself agreeable. But Mrs. Clavering, who sat between Sir Hugh and Archie,
had a very bad time of it. Sir Hugh spoke to her once during the dinner, saying that he hoped
she was satisfied with her daughter's marriage; but even this he said in a tone that seemed
to imply that any such satisfaction must rest on very poor grounds. "Thoroughly satisfied,"
said Mrs. Clavering, drawing herself up and looking very unlike the usual Mrs. Clavering of
the rectory. After that there was no further conversation between her and Sir Hugh. "The worst
of him to me is always this," she said that evening to her husband, "that he puts me so much
out of conceit with myself. If I were with him long I should begin to find myself the most
disagreeable woman in England!" "Then pray don't be with him long," said the rector.

But Archie made conversation throughout dinner, and added greatly to Mrs. Clavering's troubles
by doing so. There was nothing in common between them, but still Archie went on laboriously
with his work. It was a duty which he recognized, and at which he would work hard. When he
had used up Mary's marriage, a subject which he economized carefully, so that he brought it
down to the roast saddle of mutton, he began upon Harry's match. When was it to be? Where were
they to live? Was there any money? What manner of people were the Burtons? Perhaps he might
get over it? This he whispered very lowly, and it was the question next in sequence to that
about the money. When, in answer to this, Mrs. Clavering with considerable energy declared
that anything of that kind would be a misfortune of which there seemed to be no chance whatever,
he recovered himself as he thought very skilfully. "Oh, yes; of course; that's just what I
meant; a doosed nice girl I think her; a doosed nice girl, all round." Archie's questions were
very laborious to his fellow-laborer in the conversation, because he never allowed one of them
to pass without an answer. He always recognized the fact that he was working hard on behalf
of society, and, as he used to say himself that he had no idea of pulling all the coach up
the hill by his own shoulders. Whenever, therefore, he had made his effort he waited for his
companion's, looking closely into her face, cunningly driving her on, so that she also should
pull her share of the coach. Before dinner was over Mrs. Clavering found the hill to be very
steep, and the coach to be very heavy. "I'll bet you seven to one," said he--and this was his
parting speech as Mrs. Clavering rose up at Lady Clavering's nod--"I'll bet you seven to one,
that the whole box and dice of them are married before me--or at any rate as soon; and I don't
mean to remain single much longer, I can tell you." The "box and dice of them" was supposed
to comprise Harry, Florence, Fanny and Lady Ongar, of all of whom mention had been made, and
that saving clause--"at any rate as soon"--was cunningly put in, as it had occurred to Archie
that he perhaps might be married on the same day as one of those other persons. But Mrs. Clavering
was not compelled either to accept or reject the bet, as she was already moving before the
terms had been fully explained to her.

Lady Clavering as she went out of the room stopped a moment behind Harry's chair and whispered
a word to him. "I want to speak to you before you go to-night." Then she passed on.

"What's that Hermione was saying?" asked Sir Hugh, when he had shut the door.

"She only told me that she wanted to speak to me."

"She has always got some cursed secret," said Sir Hugh. "If there, is anything I hate, it's
a secret." Now this was hardly fair, for Sir Hugh was a man very secret in his own affairs,
never telling his wife anything about them. He kept two banker's accounts, so that no banker's
clerk might know how he stood as regarded ready money, and hardly treated even his lawyer with
confidence.

He did not move from his own chair, so that, after dinner, his uncle was not next to him. The
places left by the ladies were not closed up, and the table was very uncomfortable.

"I see they're going to have another week after this with the Pytchley," said Sir Hugh to his
brother.

"I suppose they will--or ten days. Things ain't very early this year."

"I think I shall go down. It's never any use trying to hunt here after the middle of March."

"You're rather short of foxes, are you not?" said the rector, making an attempt to join the
conversation.

"Upon my word I don't know anything about it," said Sir Hugh.

"There are foxes at Clavering," said Archie, recommencing his duty. "The hounds will be here
on Saturday, and I'll bet three to one I find a fox before twelve o'clock, or, say, half-past
twelve--that is, if they'll draw punctual and let me do as I like with the pack. I'll bet a
guinea we find, and a guinea we run, and a guinea we kill; that is, you know, if they'll really
look for a fox."

The rector had been willing to fall into a little hunting talk for the sake of society, but
he was not prepared to go the length that Archie proposed to take him, and therefore the subject
dropped.

"At any rate I shan't stay here after to-morrow," said Sir Hugh, still addressing himself to
his brother. "Pass the wine, will you, Harry; that is, if your father is drinking any."

"No more wine for me," said the rector, almost angrily.

"Liberty Hall," said Sir Hugh; "everybody does as they like about that. I mean to have another
bottle of claret. Archie, ring the bell, will you?" Captain Clavering, though he was further
from the bell than his elder brother, got up and did as he was bid. The claret came, and was
drunk almost in silence. The rector, though he had a high opinion of the cellar of the great
house, would take none of the new bottle, because he was angry. Harry filled his glass, and
attempted to say something. Sir Hugh answered him by a monosyllable, and Archie offered to
bet him two to one that he was wrong.

"I'll go into the drawing-room," said the rector, getting up.

"All right," said Sir Hugh; "you'll find coffee there, I daresay. Has your father given up
wine?" he asked, as soon as the door was closed.

"Not that I know of," said Harry.

"He used to take as good a whack as any man I know. The bishop hasn't put his embargo on that
as well as the hunting, I hope?" To this Harry made no answer.

"He's in the blues, I think," said Archie. "Is there anything the matter with him, Harry?"

"Nothing as far as I know."

"If I were left at Clavering all the year, with nothing to do, as he is, I think I should drink
a good deal of wine," said Sir Hugh. "I don't know what it is--something in the air, I suppose--but
everybody always seems to me to be dreadfully dull here. You ain't taking any wine either.
Don't stop here out of ceremony, you know, if you want to go after Miss Burton." Harry took
him at his word, and went after Miss Burton, leaving the brothers together over their claret.

The two brothers remained drinking their wine, but they drank it in an uncomfortable fashion,
not saying much to each other for the first ten minutes after the other Claverings were gone.
Archie was in some degree afraid of his brother, and never offered to make any bets with him.
Hugh had once put a stop to this altogether. "Archie," he had said, "pray understand that there
is no money to be made out of me, at any rate not by you. If you lost money to me, you wouldn't
think it necessary to pay; and I certainly shall lose none to you." The habit of proposing
to bet had become with Archie so much a matter of course, that he did not generally intend
any real speculation by his offers; but with his brother he had dropped even the habit. And
he seldom began any conversation with Hugh unless he had some point to gain--an advance of
money to ask, or some favor to beg in the way of shooting, or the loan of a horse. On such
occasions he would commence the negotiation with his usual diplomacy, not knowing any other
mode of expressing his wishes; but he was aware that his brother would always detect his manoeuvres,
and expose them before he had got through his first preface: and, therefore, as I have said,
he was afraid of Hugh.

"I don't know what's come to my uncle of late," said Hugh, after a while. "I think I shall
have to drop them at the rectory altogether."

"He never had much to say for himself."

"But he has a mode of expressing himself without speaking, which I do not choose to put up
with at my table. The fact is they are going to the mischief at the rectory. His eldest girl
has just married a curate."

"Fielding has got a living."

"It's something very small then, and I suppose Fanny will marry that prig they have here. My
uncle himself never does any of his own work, and now Harry is going to make a fool of himself.
I used to think he would fall on his legs."

"He is a clever fellow."

"Then why is he such a fool as to marry such a girl as this, without money, good looks, or
breeding? It's well for you he is such a fool, or else you wouldn't have a chance."

"I don't see that at all," said Archie.

"Julia always had a sneaking fondness for Harry, and if he had waited would have taken him
now. She was very near making a fool of herself with him once, before Lord Ongar turned up."

To this Archie said nothing, but he changed color, and it may almost be said of him that he
blushed. Why he was affected in so singular a manner by his brother's words will be best explained
by a statement of what took place in the back drawing-room a little later in the evening.

When Harry reached the drawing-room he went up to Lady Clavering, but she said nothing to him
then of especial notice. She was talking to Mrs. Clavering while the rector was reading--or
pretending to read--a review and the two girls were chattering together in another part of
the room. Then they had coffee, and after a while the two other men came in from their wine.
Lady Clavering did not move at once, but she took the first opportunity of doing so, when Sir
Hugh came up to Mrs. Clavering and spoke a word to her. A few minutes after that, Harry found
himself closeted with Lady Clavering, in a little room detached from the others, though the
doors between the two were open.

"Do you know," said Lady Clavering, "that Sir Hugh has asked Julia to come here?" Harry paused
a moment, and then acknowledged that he did know it.

"I hope you did not advise her to refuse."

"I advise her! Oh dear, no. She did not ask me anything about it."

"But she has refused. Don't you think she has been very wrong?"

"It is hard to say," said Harry. "You know I thought it very cruel that Hugh did not receive
her immediately on her return. If I had been he, I should have gone to Paris to meet her."

"It's no good talking of that now, Harry. Hugh is hard, and we all know that. Who feels it
most do you think; Julia or I? But as he has come round, what can she gain by standing off?
Will it not be the best thing for her to come here?"

"I don't know that she has much to gain by it."

"Harry, do you know that we have a plan?" "Who is we?" Harry asked; but she went on without
noticing his question. "I tell you, because I believe you can help us more than any one, if
you will. Only for your engagement with Miss Burton I should not mention it to you; and, but
for that, the plan would, I daresay, be of no use."

"What is the plan?" said Harry, very gravely. A vague idea of what the plan might be had come
across Harry's mind during Lady Clavering's last speech.

"Would it not be a good thing if Julia and Archie were to be married?" She asked the question
in a quick, hesitating voice, looking at first eagerly up into his face, and then turning away
her eyes, as though she were afraid of the answer she might read there. "Of course I know that
you were fond of her, but all that can be nothing now."

"No," said Harry, "that can be nothing now."

"Then why shouldn't Archie have her? It would make us all so much more comfortable together.
I told Archie that I should speak to you, because I know that you have more weight with her
than any of us; but Hugh doesn't know that I mean it."

"Does Sir Hugh know of the--the plan?"

"It was he who proposed it. Archie will be very badly off when he has settled with Hugh about
all their money dealings. Of course Julia's money would be left in her own hands; there would
be no intention to interfere with that. But the position would be so good for him; and it would,
you know, put him on his legs."

"Yes," said Harry, "it would put him on his legs, I dare say."

"And why shouldn't it be so? She can't live alone by herself always. Of course she never could
have really loved Lord Ongar."

"Never, I should think," said Harry.

"And Archie is good-natured, and good-tempered, and--and--and--good-looking. Don't you think
so? I think it would just do for her. She'd have her own way, for he's not a bit like Hugh,
you know. He's not so clever as Hugh, but he is much more good-natured. Don't you think it
would be a good arrangement, Harry?" Then again she looked up into his face anxiously.

Nothing in the whole matter surprised him more than her eagerness in advocating the proposal.
Why should she desire that her sister should be sacrificed in this way? But in so thinking
of it he forgot her own position, and the need that there was to her for some friend to be
near to her--for some comfort and assistance. She had spoken truly in saying that the plan
had originated with her husband; but since it had been suggested to her, she had not ceased
to think of it, and to wish for it.

"Well, Harry, what do you say?" she asked.

"I don't see that I have anything to say."

"But I know you can help us. When I was with her the last time she declared that you were the
only one of us she ever wished to see again. She meant to include me then especially, but of
course she was not thinking of Archie. I know you can help us if you will."

"Am I to ask her to marry him?"

"Not exactly that; I don't think that would do any good. But you might persuade her to come
here. I think she would come if you advised her; and then, after a bit you might say a good
word for Archie."

"Upon my word I could not."

"Why not, Harry?"

"Because I know he would not make her happy. What good would such a marriage do her?"

"Think of her position. No one will visit her unless she is first received here, or at any
rate unless she comes to us in town. And then it would be up-hill work. Do you know Lord Ongar
had absolutely determined at one time to--to get a divorce?"

"And do you believe that she was guilty?"

"I don't say that. No; why should I believe anything against my own sister when nothing is
proved, but that makes no difference, if the world believes it. They say now that if he had
lived three months longer she never would have got the money."

"Then they say lies. Who is it says so? A parcel of old women who delight in having some one
to run down and backbite. It is all false, Lady Clavering."

"But what does it signify, Harry? There she is, and you know how people are talking. Of course
it would be best for her to marry again; and if she would take Archie--Sir Hugh's brother,
my brother-in-law, nothing further would be said. She might go anywhere then. As her sister,
I feel sure that it is the best thing she could do."

Harry's brow became clouded, and there was a look of anger on his face as he answered her.

"Lady Clavering," he said, "your sister will never marry my cousin Archie. I look upon the
thing as impossible."

"Perhaps it is, Harry, that you--you yourself would not wish it."

"Why should I wish it?"

"He is your own cousin."

"Cousin indeed! Why should I wish it, or why should I not wish it? They are neither of them
anything to me."

"She ought not to be anything to you."

"And she is nothing. She may marry Archie if she pleases, for me. I shall not set her against
him. But, Lady Clavering, you might as well tell him to get one of the stars. I don't think
you can know your sister when you suppose such a match to be possible."

"Hermione!" shouted Sir Hugh--and the shout was uttered in a voice that always caused Lady
Clavering to tremble.

"I am coming," she said, rising from her chair. "Don't set yourself against it, Harry," and
then, without waiting to hear him further, she obeyed her husband's summons. "What the mischief
keeps you in there?" he said. It seemed that things had not been going on well in the larger
room. The rector had stuck to his review, taking no notice of Sir Hugh when he entered. "You
seem to be very fond of your book, all of a sudden," Sir Hugh had said, after standing silent
on the rug for a few minutes.

"Yes, I am," said the rector--"just at present."

"It's quite new with you, then," said Sir Hugh, "or else you're very much belied."

"Hugh," said Mr. Clavering, rising slowly from his chair, "I don't often come into my father's
house, but when I do, I wish to be treated with respect. You are the only person in this parish
that ever omits to do so."

"Bosh!" said Sir Hugh.

The two girls sat cowering in their seats, and poor Florence must have begun to entertain an
uncomfortable idea of her future connections. Archie made a frantic attempt to raise some conversation
with Mrs. Clavering about the weather. Mrs. Clavering, paying no attention to Archie whatever,
looked at her husband with beseeching eyes. "Henry," she said, "do not allow yourself to be
angry; pray do not. What is the use?"

"None on earth," he said, returning to his book. "No use on earth; and worse than none in showing
it."

Then it was that Sir Hugh had made a diversion by calling to his wife. "I wish you'd stay with
us, and not go off alone with one person in particular, in that way." Lady Clavering looked
round and immediately saw that things were unpleasant. "Archie," she said, "will you ring for
tea?" And Archie did ring. The tea was brought, and a cup was taken all round, almost in silence.

Harry in the meantime remained by himself, thinking of what he had heard from Lady Clavering.
Archie Clavering marry Lady Ongar--marry his Julia! It was impossible. He could not bring himself
even to think of such an arrangement with equanimity. He was almost frantic with anger as he
thought of this proposition to restore Lady Ongar to the position in the world's repute which
she had a right to claim by such a marriage as that. "She would indeed be disgraced then,"
said Harry to himself. But he knew that it was impossible. He could see what would be the nature
of Julia's countenance if Archie should ever get near enough to her to make his proposal! Archie
indeed! There was no one for whom, at that moment, he entertained so thorough a contempt as
he did for his cousin, Archie Clavering.

Let us hope that he was no dog in the manger; that the feelings which he now entertained for
poor Archie would not have been roused against any other possible suitor who might have been
named as a fitting husband for Lady Ongar. Lady Ongar could be nothing to him.

But I fear that he was a dog in the manger, and that any marriage contemplated for Lady Ongar,
either by herself or by others for her, would have been distasteful to him--unnaturally distasteful.
He knew that Lady Ongar could be nothing to him; and yet, as he came out of the small room
into the larger room, there was something sore about his heart, and the soreness was occasioned
by the thought that any second marriage should be thought possible for Lady Ongar. Florence
smiled on him as he went up to her, but I doubt whether she would have smiled had she known
all his heart.

Soon after that Mrs. Clavering rose to return home, having swallowed a peace-offering in the
shape of a cup of tea. But though the tea had quieted the storm then on the waters, there was
no true peace in the rector's breast. He shook hands cordially with Lady Clavering, without
animosity with Archie, and then held out three fingers to the baronet. The baronet held out
one finger. Each nodded at the other, and so they parted. Harry, who knew nothing of what had
happened, and who was still thinking of Lady Ongar, busied himself with Florence, and they
were soon out of the house, walking down the broad road from the front door.

"I will never enter that house again, when I know that Hugh Clavering is in it," said the rector.

"Don't make rash assertions, Henry," said his wife.

"I hope it is not rash, but I make that assertion," he said. "I will never again enter that
house as my nephew's guest. I have borne a great deal for the sake of peace, but there are
things which a man cannot bear."

Then, as they walked home, the two girls explained to Harry what had occurred in the larger
room, while he was talking to Lady Clavering in the smaller one. But he said nothing to them
of the subject of that conversation.

Chapter XII

Lady Ongar Takes Possession

I do not know that there is in England a more complete gentleman's residence than Ongar Park,
nor could there be one in better repair, or more fit for immediate habitation than was that
house when it came into the hands of the young widow. The park was not large, containing about
sixty or seventy acres. But there was a home-farm attached to the place, which also now belonged
to Lady Ongar for her life, and which gave to the park itself an appearance of extent which
it would otherwise have wanted. The house, regarded as a nobleman's mansion, was moderate in
size, but it was ample for the requirements of any ordinarily wealthy family. The dining-room,
library, drawing-rooms, and breakfast-room, were all large and well-arranged. The hall was
handsome and spacious, and the bed-rooms were sufficiently numerous to make an auctioneer's
mouth water. But the great charm of Ongar Park lay in the grounds immediately round the house,
which sloped down from the terrace before the windows to a fast-running stream which was almost
hidden--but was not hidden--by the shrubs on its bank. Though the domain itself was small,
the shrubberies and walks were extensive. It was a place costly to maintain in its present
perfect condition, but when that was said against it, all was said against it which its bitterest
enemies could allege.

But Lady Ongar, with her large jointure, and with no external expenses whatever, could afford
this delight without imprudence. Everything in and about the place was her own, and she might
live there happily, even in the face of the world's frowns, if she could teach herself to find
happiness in rural luxuries. On her immediate return to England, her lawyer had told her that
he found there would be opposition to her claim, and that an attempt would be made to keep
the house out of her hands. Lord Ongar's people would, he said, bribe her to submit to this
by immediate acquiescence, as to her income. But she had declared that she would not submit--that
she would have house and income and all; and she had been successful. "Why should I surrender
what is my own?" she said, looking the lawyer full in the face. The lawyer had not dared to
tell her that her opponents--Lord Ongar's heirs--had calculated on her anxiety to avoid exposure;
but she knew that that was meant. "I have nothing to fear from them," she said, "and mean to
claim what is my own by my settlement." There had, in truth, been no ground for disputing her
right, and the place was given up before she had been three months in England. She at once
went down and took possession, and there she was, alone, when her sister was communicating
to Harry Clavering her plan about Captain Archie.

She had never seen the place till she reached it on this occasion; nor had she ever seen, nor
would she now probably ever see, Lord Ongar's larger house, Courton Castle. She had gone abroad
with him immediately on their marriage, and now she had returned a widow to take possession
of his house. There she was, in possession of it all. The furniture in the rooms, the books
in the cases, the gilded clocks and grand mirrors about the house, all the implements of wealthy
care about the gardens, the corn in the granaries and the ricks in the hay-yard, the horses
in the stable, and the cows lowing in the fields--they were all hers. She had performed her
part of the bargain, and now the price was paid to her into her hands. When she arrived she
did not know what was the extent of her riches in this world's goods; nor, in truth, had she
at once the courage to ask questions on the subject. She saw cows, and was told of horses;
and words came to her gradually of sheep and oxen, of poultry, pigs, and growing calves. It
was as though a new world had opened itself before her eyes, full of interest; and as though
all that world were her own. She looked at it, and knew that it was the price of her bargain.
Upon the whole, she had been very lucky. She had, indeed, passed through a sharp agony--an
agony sharp almost to death; but the agony had been short, and the price was in her hand.

A close carriage had met her at the station, and taken her with her maid to the house. She
had so arranged that she had reached the station after dark, and even then had felt that the
eyes of many were upon her as she went out to her carriage, with her face covered by a veil.
She was all alone, and there would be no one at the house to whom she could speak; but the
knowledge that the carriage was her own perhaps consoled her. The housekeeper who received
her was a stout, elderly, comfortable body, to whom she could perhaps say a few words beyond
those which might be spoken to an ordinary servant; but she fancied at once that the housekeeper
was cold to her, and solemn in her demeanor.

"I hope you have good fires, Mrs. Button."

"Yes, my lady."

"I think I will have some tea; I don't want anything else to-night."

"Very well, my lady."

Mrs. Button, maintaining a solemn countenance, would not go beyond this; and yet Mrs. Button
looked like a woman who could have enjoyed a gossip, had the lady been a lady to her mind.
Perhaps Mrs. Button did not like serving a lady as to whom such sad stories were told. Lady
Ongar, as she thought of this, drew herself up unconsciously, and sent Mrs. Button away from her.

The next morning, after an early breakfast, Lady Ongar went out. She was determined that she
would work hard; that she would understand the farm; that she would know the laborers; that
she would assist the poor; that she would have a school; and, above all, that she would make
all the privileges of ownership her own. Was not the price in her hand, and would she not use
it? She felt that it was very good that something of the price had come to her thus in the
shape of land, and beeves, and wide, heavy outside garniture. From them she would pluck an
interest which mere money could not have given her. She was out early, therefore, that she
might look round upon the things that were her own.

And there came upon her a feeling that she would not empty this sweet cup at one draught, that
she would daily somewhat with the rich banquet that was spread for her. She had many griefs
to overcome, much sorrow to conquer, perhaps a long period of desolation to assuage, and she
would not be prodigal of her resources. As she looked around her while she walked, almost furtively,
lest some gardener as he spied her might guess her thoughts and tell how my lady was revelling
in her pride of possession--it appeared to her that those novelties in which she was to find
her new interest were without end. There was not a tree there, not a shrub, not a turn in the
walks, which should not become her friend. She did not go far from the house, not even down
to the water. She was husbanding her resources. But yet she lost herself amidst the paths,
and tried to find a joy in feeling that she had done so. It was all her own. It was the price
of what she had done: and the price was even now being paid into her hand--paid with current
coin and of full weight.

As she sat down alone to her breakfast, she declared to herself that this should be enough
for her--that it should satisfy her. She had made her bargain with her eyes open, and would
not now ask for things which had not been stipulated in the contract. She was alone, and all
the world was turning its back on her. The relatives of her late husband would, as a matter
of course, be her enemies. Them she had never seen, and that they should speak evil of her
seemed to be only natural. But her own relatives were removed from her by a gulf nearly equally
wide. Of Brabazon cousins she had none nearer than the third or fourth degree of cousinship,
and of them she had never taken heed, and expected no heed from them. Her set of friends would
naturally have been the same as her sister's, and would have been made up of those she had
known when she was one of Sir Hugh's family. But from Sir Hugh she was divided now as widely
as from the Ongar people, and, for any purposes of society, from her sister also. Sir Hugh
had allowed his wife to invite her to Clavering, but to this she would not submit after Sir
Hugh's treatment to her on her return. Though she had suffered much, her spirit was unbroken.
Sir Hugh was, in truth, responsible for her reception in England. Had he come forward like
a brother, all might have been well. But it was too late now for Sir Hugh Clavering to remedy
the evil he had done, and he should be made to understand that Lady Ongar would not become
a suppliant to him for mercy. She was striving to think how "rich she was in horses, how rich
in broidered garments, and in gold," as she sat solitary over her breakfast; but her mind would
run off to other things, cumbering itself with unnecessary miseries and useless indignation.
Had she not her price in her hand?

Would she see the steward that morning? No, not that morning. Things outside could go on for
a while in their course as heretofore. She feared to seem to take possession with pride, and
then there was that conviction that it would be well to husband her resources. So she sent
for Mrs. Button, and asked Mrs. Button to walk through the rooms with her. Mrs. Button came,
but again declined to accept her lady's condescension. Every spot about the house, every room,
closet and wardrobe, she was ready to open with zeal; the furniture she was prepared to describe,
if Lady Ongar would listen to her; but every word was spoken in a solemn voice, very far removed
from gossipping. Only once was Mrs. Button moved to betray any emotion. "That, my lady, was
my lord's mother's room, after my lord died--my lord's father that was; may God bless her."
Then Lady Ongar reflected that from her husband she had never heard a word either of his father
or his mother. She wished that she could seat herself with that woman in some small upstairs
room, and then ask question after question about the family. But she did not dare to make the
attempt. She could not bring herself to explain to Mrs. Button that she had never known anything
of the belongings of her own husband.

When she had seen the upper part of the house, Mrs. Button offered to convoy her through the
kitchens and servants' apartments, but she declined this for the present. She had done enough
for the day. So she dismissed Mrs. Button, and took herself to the library. How often had she
heard that books afforded the surest consolation to the desolate. She would take to reading;
not on this special day, but as the resource for many days and months, and years to come. But
this idea had faded and become faint, before she had left the gloomy, damp-feeling, chill room,
in which some former Lord Ongar had stored the musty Volumes which he had thought fit to purchase.
The library gave her no ease, so she went out again among the lawns and shrubs. For some time
to come her best resources must be those which she could find outside the house.

Peering about, she made her way behind the stables, which were attached to the house, to a
farm-yard gate, through which the way led to the headquarters of the live stock. She did not
go through, but she looked over the gate, telling herself that those barns and sheds, that
wealth of straw-yard, those sleeping pigs and idle, dreaming calves, were all her own. As she
did so, her eye fell upon an old laborer, who was sitting close to her, on a felled tree, under
the shelter of a paling, eating his dinner. A little girl, some six years old, who had brought
him his meal tied up in a handkerchief, was crouching near his feet. They had both seen her
before she had seen them, and when she noticed them, were staring at her with all their eyes.
She and they were on the same side of the farmyard paling, and so she could reach them and
speak to them without difficulty. There was, apparently, no other person near enough to listen,
and it occurred to her that she might at any rate make a friend of this old man. His name,
he said, was Enoch Gubby, and the girl was his grandchild. Her name was Patty Gubby. Then Patty
got up and had her head patted by her ladyship and received sixpence. They neither of them,
however, knew who her ladyship was, and, as far as Lady Ongar could ascertain without a question
too direct to be asked, had never heard of her. Enoch Gubby said he worked for Mr. Giles, the
steward--that was for my lord, and as he was old and stiff with rheumatism he only got eight
shillings a week. He had a daughter, the mother of Patty, who worked in the fields, and got
six shillings a week. Everything about the poor Gubbys seemed to be very wretched and miserable.
Sometimes he could hardly drag himself about, he was so bad with the rheumatics. Then she thought
that she would make one person happy, and told him that his wages should be raised to ten shillings
a week. No matter whether he earned it or not, or what Mr. Giles might say; he should have
ten shillings a week.

So Enoch Gabby got his weekly ten shillings, though Lady Ongar hardly realized the pleasure
that she had expected from the transaction. She sent that afternoon for Mr. Giles, the steward,
and told him what she had done. Mr. Giles did not at all approve, and spoke his disapproval
very plainly, though he garnished his rebuke with a great many "my lady's." The old man was
a hanger-on about the place, and for years had received eight shillings a week, which he had
not half earned. "Now he will have ten, that is all," said Lady Ongar. Mr. Giles acknowledged
that if her ladyship pleased, Enoch Gubby must have the ten shillings, but declared that the
business could not be carried on in that way. Everybody about the place would expect an addition,
and those people who did earn what they received, would think themselves cruelly used in being
worse treated than Enoch Gubby, who, according to Mr. Giles, was by no means the most worthy
old man in the parish. And as for his daughter--oh! Mr. Giles could not trust himself to talk
about the daughter to her ladyship. Before he left her, Lady Ongar was convinced that she had
made a mistake. Not even from charity will pleasure come, if charity be taken up simply to
appease remorse.

The price was in her hand. For a fortnight the idea clung to her, that gradually she would
realize the joys of possession; but there was no moment in which she could tell herself that
the joy was hers. She was now mistress of the geography of the place. There was no more losing
herself amidst the shrubberies, no thought of economizing her resources. Of Mr. Giles and his
doings she still knew very little, but the desire of knowing much had faded. The ownership
of the haystacks had become a thing tame to her, and the great cart-horses, as to every one
of which she had intended to feel an interest, were matters of indifference to her. She observed
that since her arrival a new name in new paint--her own name--was attached to the carts, and
that the letters were big and glaring. She wished that this had not been done, or, at any rate,
that the letters had been smaller. Then she began to think that it might be well for her to
let the farm to a tenant; not that she might thus get more money, but because she felt that
the farm would be a trouble. The apples had indeed quickly turned to ashes between her teeth!

On the first Sunday that she was at Ongar Park she went to the parish church. She had resolved
strongly that she would do this, and she did it; but when the moment for starting came, her
courage almost failed her. The church was but a few yards from her own gate, and she walked
there without any attendant. She had, however, sent word to the sexton to say that she would
be there, and the old man was ready to show her into the family pew. She wore a thick veil,
and was dressed, of course, in all the deep ceremonious woe of widowhood. As she walked up
the centre of the church she thought of her dress, and told herself that all there would know
how it had been between her and her husband. She was pretending to mourn for the man to whom
she had sold herself; for the man who through happy chance had died so quickly, leaving her
with the price in her hand! All of course knew that, and all thought that they knew, moreover,
that she had been foully false to her bargain, and had not earned the price! That, also, she
told herself. But she went through it, and walked out of the church among the village crowd
with her head on high.

Three days afterward, she wrote to the clergyman, asking him to call on her. She had come,
she said, to live in the parish, and hoped to be able, with his assistance, to be of some use
among the people. She would hardly know how to act without some counsel from him. The schools
might be all that was excellent, but if there was anything required she hoped he would tell
her. On the following morning the clergyman called, and, with many thanks for her generosity,
listened to her plans, and accepted her subsidies. But he was a married man, and he said nothing
of his wife, nor during the next week did his wife come to call on her. She was to be left
desolate by all, because men had told lies of her!

She had the price in her hands, but she felt herself tempted to do as Judas did--to go out
and hang herself.

Chapter XIII

A Visitor Calls At Ongar Park

It will be remembered that Harry Clavering, on returning one evening to his lodgings in Bloomsbury
Square, had been much astonished at finding there the card of Count Pateroff, a man of whom
he had only heard, up to that moment, as the friend of the late Lord Ongar. At first he had
been very angry with Lady Ongar, thinking that she and this count were in some league together,
some league of which he would greatly disapprove; but his anger had given place to a new interest
when he learned direct from herself that she had not seen the count, and that she was simply
anxious that he, as her friend, should have an interview with the man. He had then become very
eager in the matter, offering to subject himself to any amount of inconvenience so that he
might effect that which Lady Ongar asked of him. He was not, however, called upon to endure
any special trouble or expense, as he heard nothing more from Count Pateroff till he had been
back in London for two or three weeks.

Lady Ongar's statement to him had been quite true. It had been even more than true; for when
she had written she had not even heard directly from the count. She had learned by letter from
another person that Count Pateroff was in London, and had then communicated the fact to her
friend. This other person was a sister of the count's, who was now living in London, one Madame
Gordeloup--Sophie Gordeloup--a lady whom Harry had found sitting in Lady Ongar's room when
last he had seen her in Bolton Street. He had not then heard her name; nor was he aware then,
or for some time subsequently, that Count Pateroff had any relative in London.

Lady Ongar had been a fortnight in the country before she received Madame Gordeloup's letter.
In that letter the sister had declared herself to be most anxious that her brother should see
Lady Ongar. The letter had been in French, and had been very eloquent--more eloquent in its
cause than any letter with the same object could have been if written by an Englishwoman in
English; and the eloquence was less offensive than it might, under all concurrent circumstances,
have been had it reached Lady Ongar in English. The reader must not, however, suppose that
the letter contained a word that was intended to support a lover's suit. It was very far indeed
from that, and spoke of the count simply as a friend; but its eloquence went to show that nothing
that had passed should be construed by Lady Ongar as offering any bar to a fair friendship.
What the world said!--Bah! Did not she know--she, Sophie--and did not her friend know--her
friend Julie--that the world was a great liar? Was it not even now telling wicked venomous
lies about her friend Julie? Why mind what the world said, seeing that the world could not
be brought to speak one word of truth? The world indeed! Bah!

But Lady Ongar, though she was not as yet more than half as old as Madame Gordeloup, knew what
she was about almost as well as that lady knew what Sophie Gordeloup was doing. Lady Ongar
had known the count's sister in France and Italy, having seen much of her in one of those sudden
intimacies to which English people are subject when abroad; and she had been glad to see Madame
Gordeloup in London--much more glad than she would have been had she been received there on
her return by a crowd of loving native friends. But not on that account was she prepared to
shape her conduct in accordance with her friend Sophie's advice, and especially not so when
that advice had reference to Sophie's brother. She had, therefore, said very little in return
to the lady's eloquence, answering the letter on that matter very vaguely; but, having a purpose
of her own, had begged that Count Pateroff might be asked to call upon Harry Clavering. Count
Pateroff did not feel himself to care very much about Harry Clavering, but wishing to do as
he was bidden, did leave his card in Bloomsbury Square.

And why was Lady Ongar anxious that the young man who was her friend should see the man who
had been her husband's friend, and whose name had been mixed with her own in so grievous a
manner? She had called Harry her friend, and it might be that she desired to give this friend
every possible means of testing the truth of that story which she herself had told. The reader,
perhaps, will hardly have believed in Lady Ongar's friendship; will, perhaps, have believed
neither the friendship nor the story. If so, the reader will have done her wrong, and will
not have read her character aright. The woman was not heartless because she had once, in one
great epoch of her life, betrayed her own heart; nor was she altogether false because she had
once lied; nor altogether vile, because she had once taught herself that, for such an one as
her, riches were a necessity. It might be that the punishment of her sin could meet with no
remission in this world, but not on that account should it be presumed that there was no place
for repentance left to her.

As she walked alone through the shrubberies at Ongar Park she thought much of those other paths
at Clavering, and of the walks in which she had not been alone; and she thought of that interview
in the garden when she had explained to Harry--as she had then thought so successfully--that
they two, each being poor, were not fit to love and marry each other. She had brooded over
all that, too, during the long hours of her sad journey home to England. She was thinking of
it still when she had met him, and had been so cold to him on the platform of the railway station,
when she had sent him away angry because she had seemed to slight him. She had thought of it
as she had sat in her London room, telling him the terrible tale of her married life, while
her eyes were fixed on his and her head was resting on her hands. Even then, at that moment,
she was asking herself whether he believed her story, or whether, within his breast, he was
saying that she was vile and false. She knew that she had been false to him, and that he must
have despised her when, with her easy philosophy, she had made the best of her own mercenary
perfidy. He had called her a jilt to her face, and she had been able to receive the accusation
with a smile. Would he now call her something worse, and in a louder voice, within his own
bosom? And if she could convince him that to that accusation she was not fairly subject, might
the old thing come back again? Would he walk with her again, and look into her eyes as though
he only wanted her commands to show himself ready to be her slave? She was a widow, and had
seen many things, but even now she had not reached her six-and-twentieth year.

The apples at her rich country-seat had quickly become ashes between her teeth, but something
of the juice of the fruit might yet reach her palate if he would come and sit with her at the
table. As she complained to herself of the coldness of the world, she thought that she would
not care how cold might be all the world if there might be but one whom she could love, and
who would love her. And him she had loved. To him, in old days--in days which now seemed to
her to be very old--she had made confession of her love. Old as were those days, it could not
be but he should still remember them. She had loved him, and him only. To none other had she
ever pretended love. From none other had love been offered to her. Between her and that wretched
being to whom she had sold herself, who had been half dead before she had seen him, there had
been no pretence of love. But Harry Clavering she had loved. Harry Clavering was a man, with
all those qualities which she valued, and also with those foibles which saved him from being
too perfect for so slight a creature as herself. Harry had been offended to the quick, and
had called her a jilt; but yet it might be possible that he would return to her.

It should not be supposed that since her return to England she had had one settled, definite
object before her eyes with regard to this renewal of her love. There had been times in which
she had thought that she would go on with the life which she had prepared for herself, and
that she would make herself contented, if not happy, with the price which had been paid to
her. And there were other times, in which her spirits sank low within her, and she told herself
that no contentment was longer possible to her. She looked at herself in the glass, and found
herself to be old and haggard. Harry, she said, was the last man in the world to sell himself
for wealth, when there was no love remaining. Harry would never do as she had done with herself!
Not for all the wealth that woman ever inherited--so she told herself--would he link himself
to one who had made herself vile and tainted among women! In this, I think, she did him no
more than justice, though it maybe that in some other matters she rated his character too highly.
Of Florence Burton she had as yet heard nothing, though had she heard of her, it may well be
that she would not on that account have desisted. Such being her thoughts and her hopes, she
had written to Harry, begging him to see this man who had followed her--she knew not why--from
Italy; and had told the sister simply that she could not do as she was asked, because she was
away from London, alone in a country house.

And quite alone she was sitting one morning, counting up her misery, feeling that the apples
were, in truth, ashes, when a servant came to her, telling her that there was a gentleman in
the hall desirous of seeing her. The man had the visitor's card in his hand, but before she
could read the name, the blood had mounted into her face as she told herself that it was Harry
Clavering. There was joy for a moment at her heart; but she must not show it--not as yet. She
had been but four months a widow, and he should not have come to her in the country. She must
see him and in some way make him understand this--but she would be very gentle with him. Then
her eye fell upon the card, and she saw, with grievous disappointment, that it bore the name
of Count Pateroff. No; she was not going to be caught in that way. Let the result be what it
might, she would not let Sophie Gordeloup, or Sophie's brother, get the better of her by such
a ruse as that! "Tell the gentleman, with my compliments," she said, as she handed back the
card, "that I regret it greatly, but I can see no one now." Then the servant went away, and
she sat wondering whether the count would be able to make his way into her presence. She felt
rather than knew that she had some reason to fear him. All that had been told of him and of
her had been false. No accusation brought against her had contained one spark of truth. But
there had been things between Lord Ongar and this man which she would not care to have told
openly in England. And though, in his conduct to her, he had been customarily courteous, and
on one occasion had been generous, still she feared him. She would much rather that he should
have remained in Italy. And though, when all alone in Bolton Street, she had in her desolation
welcomed his sister Sophie, she would have preferred that Sophie should not have come to her,
claiming to renew their friendship. But with the count she would hold no communion now, even
though he should find his way into the room.

A few minutes passed before the servant returned, and then he brought a note with him. As the
door opened Lady Ongar rose, ready to leave the room by another passage; but she took the note
and read it. It was as follows: "I cannot understand why you should refuse to see me, and I
feel aggrieved. My present purpose is to say a few words to you on private matters connected
with papers that belonged to Lord Ongar. I still hope that you will admit me--P." Having read
these words while standing, she made an effort to think what might be the best course for her
to follow. As for Lord Ongar's papers, she did not believe in the plea. Lord Ongar could have
had no papers interesting to her in such a manner as to make her desirous of seeing this man
or of hearing of them in private. Lord Ongar, though she had nursed him to the hour of his
death, earning her price, had been her bitterest enemy; and though there had been something
about this count that she had respected, she had known him to be a man of intrigue and afraid
of no falsehoods in his intrigues--a dangerous man, who might perhaps now and again do a generous
thing, but one who would expect payment for his generosity. Besides, had he not been named
openly as her lover? She wrote to him, therefore, as follows: "Lady Ongar presents her compliments
to Count Pateroff and finds it to be out of her power to see him at present." This answer the
visitor took and walked away from the front door without showing any disgust to the servant,
either by his demeanor or in his countenance. On that evening she received from him a long
letter, written at the neighboring inn, expostulating with her as to her conduct toward him,
and saying in the last line, that it was "impossible now that they should be strangers to each
other." "Impossible that we should be strangers," she said almost out aloud. "Why impossible?
I know no such impossibility." After that she carefully burned both the letter and the note.

She remained at Ongar Park something over six weeks, and then, about the beginning of May,
she went back to London. No one had been to see her, except Mr. Sturm, the clergyman of the
parish; and he, though something almost approaching to an intimacy had sprung up between them,
had never yet spoken to her of his wife. She was not quite sure whether her rank might not
deter him--whether under such circumstances as those now in question, the ordinary social rules
were not ordinarily broken--whether a countess should not call on a clergyman's wife first,
although the countess might be the stranger; but she did not dare to do as she would have done,
had no blight attached itself to her name. She gave, therefore, no hint; she said no word of
Mrs. Sturm, though her heart was longing for a kind word from some woman's mouth. But she allowed
herself to feel no anger against the husband, and went through her parish work, thanking him
for his assistance.

Of Mr. Giles she had seen very little, and since her misfortune with Enoch Gubby, she had made
no further attempt to interfere with the wages of the persons employed. Into the houses of
some of the poor she had made her way, but she fancied that they were not glad to see her.
They might, perhaps, have all heard of her reputation, and Gubby's daughter may have congratulated
herself that there was another in the parish as bad as herself, or perhaps, happily, worse.
The owner of all the wealth around strove to make Mrs. Button become a messenger of charity
between herself and some of the poor; but Mrs. Button altogether declined the employment, although,
as her mistress had ascertained, she herself performed her own little missions of charity with
zeal. Before the fortnight was over, Lady Ongar was sick of her house and her park, utterly
disregardful of her horses and oxen, and unmindful even of the pleasant stream which in these
Spring days rippled softly at the bottom of her gardens.

She had undertaken to be back in London early in May, by appointment with her lawyer, and had
unfortunately communicated the fact to Madame Gordeloup. Four or five days before she was due
in Bolton Street, her mindful Sophie, with unerring memory, wrote to her, declaring her readiness
to do all and anything that the most diligent friendship could prompt. Should she meet her
dear Julie at the station in London? Should she bring any special carriage? Should she order
any special dinner in Bolton Street? She herself would of course come to Bolton Street, if
not allowed to be present at the station. It was still chilly in the evenings, and she would
have fires lit. Might she suggest a roast fowl and some bread sauce, and perhaps a sweetbread--and
just one glass of champagne? And might she share the banquet? There was not a word in the note
about the too obtrusive brother, either as to the offence committed by him, or the offence
felt by him.

The little Franco-Polish woman was there in Bolton Street, of course--for Lady Ongar had not
dared to refuse her. A little, dry, bright woman she was, with quick eyes, and thin lips, and
small nose, and mean forehead, and scanty hair drawn back quite tightly from her face and head;
very dry, but still almost pretty with her quickness and her brightness. She was fifty, was
Sophie Gordeloup, but she had so managed her years that she was as active on her limbs as most
women are at twenty-five. And the chicken and the bread sauce, and the sweetbread, and the
champagne were there, all very good of their kind; for Sophie Gordeloup liked such things to
be good, and knew how to indulge her own appetite, and to coax that, of another person.

Some little satisfaction Lady Ongar received from the fact that she was not alone; but the
satisfaction was not satisfactory. When Sophie had left her at ten o'clock, running off by
herself to her lodgings in Mount Street, Lady Ongar, after but one moment's thought, sat down
and wrote, a note to Harry Clavering.

    "DEAR HARRY--I am back in town. Pray come and see me to-morrow
    evening.

    "Yours ever,

    "J. O."

Chapter XIV

Count Pateroff

After an interval of some weeks, during which Harry had been down at Clavering and had returned
again to his work at the Adelphi, Count Pateroff called again in Bloomsbury Square; but Harry
was at Mr. Beilby's office. Harry at once returned the count's visit at the address given in
Mount Street. Madame was at home, said the servant-girl, from which Harry was led to suppose
that the count was a married man; but Harry felt that he had no right to intrude upon madame,
so he simply left his card. Wishing, however, really to have this interview, and having been
lately elected at a club of which he was rather proud, he wrote to the count asking him to
dine with him at the Beaufort. He explained that there was a stranger's room--which Pateroff
knew very well, having often dined at the Beaufort--and said something as to a private little
dinner for two, thereby apologizing for proposing to the count to dine without other guests.
Pateroff accepted the invitation, and Harry, never having done such a thing before, ordered
his dinner with much nervousness.

The count was punctual, and the two men introduced themselves. Harry had expected to see a
handsome foreigner, with black hair, polished whiskers, and probably a hook nose--forty years
of age or thereabouts, but so got up as to look not much more than thirty. But his guest was
by no means a man of that stamp. Excepting that the count's age was altogether uncertain, no
correctness of guess on that matter being possible by means of his appearance, Harry's preconceived
notion was wrong in every point. He was a fair man, with a broad fair face, and very light
blue eyes; his forehead was low, but broad; he wore no whiskers, but bore on his lip a heavy
moustache which was not gray, but perfectly white--white it was with years, of course, but
yet it gave no sign of age to his face. He was well made, active, and somewhat broad in the
shoulders, though rather below the middle height. But for a certain ease of manner which he
possessed, accompanied by something of restlessness in his eye, any one would have taken him
for an Englishman. And his speech hardly betrayed that he was not English. Harry, knowing that
he was a foreigner, noticed now and again some little acquired distinctness of speech which
is hardly natural to a native; but otherwise there was nothing in his tongue to betray him.

"I am sorry that you should have had so much trouble," he said, shaking hands with Harry. Clavering
declared that he had incurred no trouble, and declared also that he would be only too happy
to have taken any trouble in obeying a behest from his friend Lady Ongar. Had he been a Pole
as was the count, he would not have forgotten to add that he would have been equally willing
to exert himself with the view of making the count's acquaintance; but being simply a young
Englishman, he was much too awkward for any such courtesy as that. The count observed the omission,
smiled, and bowed. Then he spoke of the weather, and said that London was a magnificent city.
Oh, yes, he knew London well; had known it these twenty years; had been for fifteen years a
member of the Travellers'; he liked everything English, except hunting. English hunting he
had found to be dull work. But he liked shooting for an hour or two. He could not rival, he
said, the intense energy of an Englishman, who would work all day with his gun harder than
ploughmen with their ploughs. Englishmen sported, he said, as though more than their bread--as
though their honor, their wives, their souls, depended on it. It was very fine! He often wished
that he was an Englishman. Then he shrugged his shoulders.

Harry was very anxious to commence a conversation about Lady Ongar, but he did not know how
at first to introduce her name. Count Pateroff had come to him at Lady Ongar's request, and
therefore, as he thought, the count should have been the first to mention her. But the count
seemed to be enjoying his dinner without any thought either of Lady Ongar or of her late husband.
At this time he had been down to Ongar Park, on that mission which had been, as we know, futile;
but he said no word of that to Harry. He seemed to enjoy his dinner thoroughly, and made himself
very agreeable. When the wine was discussed he told Harry that a certain vintage of Moselle
was very famous at the Beaufort. Harry ordered the wine of course, and was delighted to give
his guest the best of everything; but he was a little annoyed at finding that the stranger
knew his club better than he knew it himself. Slowly the count ate his dinner, enjoying every
morsel that he took with that thoughtful, conscious pleasure which young men never attain in
eating and drinking, and which men as they grow older so often forget to acquire. But the count
never forgot any of his own capacities for pleasure, and in all things made the most of his
own resources. To be rich is not to have one or ten thousand a year, but to be able to get
out of that one or ten thousand all that every pound, and every shilling, and every penny will
give you. After this fashion the count was a rich man.

"You don't sit after dinner here, I suppose," said the count, when he had completed an elaborate
washing of his mouth and moustache. "I like this club because we who are strangers have so
charming a room for our smoking. It is the best club in London for men who do not belong to it."

It occurred to Harry that in the smoking-room there could be no privacy. Three or four men
had already spoken to the count, showing that he was well known, giving notice, as it were,
that Pateroff would become a public man when once he was placed in a public circle. To have
given a dinner to the count, and to have spoken no word to him about Lady Ongar, would be by
no means satisfactory to Harry's feelings, though, as it appeared, it might be sufficiently
satisfactory to the guest. Harry therefore suggested one bottle of claret. The count agreed,
expressing an opinion that the 51 Lafitte was unexceptional. The 51 Lafitte was ordered, and
Harry, as he filled his glass, considered the way in which his subject should be introduced.

"You knew Lord Ongar, I think, abroad?"

"Lord Ongar--abroad! Oh, yes, very well; and for many years here in London; and at Vienna;
and very early in life at St. Petersburg. I knew Lord Ongar first in Russia, when he was attached
to the embassy as Frederic Courton. His father, Lord Courton, was then alive, as was also his
grandfather. He was a nice, good-looking lad then."

"As regards his being nice, he seems to have changed a good deal before he died." This the
count noticed by simply shrugging his shoulders and smiling as he sipped his wine. "By all
that I can hear, he became a horrid brute when he married," said Harry, energetically.

"He was not pleasant when he was ill at Florence," said the count.

"She must have had a terrible time with him," said Harry.

The count put up his hands, again shrugged his shoulders, and then shook his head. "She knew
he was no longer an Adonis when he married her."

"An Adonis! No; she did not expect an Adonis; but she thought he would have something of the
honor and feelings of a man."

"She found it uncomfortable, no doubt. He did too much of this, you know," said the count,
raising his glass to his lips; "and he didn't do it with 51 Lafitte. That was Ongar's fault.
All the world knew it for the last ten years. No one knew it better than Hugh Clavering."

"But--" said Harry, and then he stopped. He hardly knew what it was that he wished to learn
from the man, though he certainly did wish to learn something. He had thought that the count
would himself have talked about Lady Ongar and those Florentine days, but this he did not seem
disposed to do. "Shall we have our cigars now?" said Count Pateroff.

"One moment, if you don't mind."

"Certainly, certainly. There is no hurry."

"You will take no more wine?"

"No more wine. I take my wine at dinner, as you saw."

"I want to ask you one special question--about Lady Ongar."

"I will say anything in her favor that you please. I am always ready to say anything in the
favor of any lady, and, if needs be, to swear it. Bu anything against any lady nobody ever
heard me say."

Harry was sharp enough to perceive that any assertion made under such a stipulation was worse
than nothing. It was as when a man, in denying the truth of a statement, does so with an assurance
that on that subject he should consider himself justified in telling any number of lies. "I
did not write the book--but you have no right to ask the question; and I should say that I
had not, even if I had." Pateroff was speaking of Lady Ongar in this way, and Harry hated him
for doing so.

"I don't want you to say any good of her," said he, "or any evil."

"I certainly shall say no evil of her."

"But I think you know that she has been most cruelly treated."

"Well, there is about seven-thousand-pounds a year, I think! Seven-thousand a year! Not francs,
but pounds! We poor foreigners lose ourselves in amazement when we hear about your English
fortunes. Seven-thousand pounds a year for a lady all alone, and a beautiful house! A house
so beautiful, they tell me!"

"What has that to do with it?" said Harry; whereupon the count again shrugged his shoulders.
"What has that to do with it? Because the man was rich he was not justified in ill-treating
his wife. Did he not bring false accusations against her, in order that he might rob her after
his death of all that of which you think so much? Did he not hear false witness against her,
to his own dishonor?"

"She has got the money, I think--and the beautiful house."

"But her name has been covered with lies."

"What can I do? Why do you ask me? I know nothing. Look here, Mr. Clavering, if you want to
make any inquiry you had better go to my sister. I don't see what good it will do, but she
will talk to you by the hour together, if you wish it. Let us smoke."

"Your sister?"

"Yes, my sister. Madame Gordeloup is her name. Has not Lady Ongar mentioned my sister? They
are inseparables. My sister lives in Mount Street."

"With you?"

"No, not with me; I do not live in Mount Street. I have my address sometimes at her house."

"Madame Gordeloup?"

"Yes, Madame Gordeloup. She is Lady Ongar's friend. She will talk to you."

"Will you introduce me, Count Pateroff?"

"Oh, no; it is not necessary. You can go to Mount Street, and she will be delighted. There
is the card. And now we will smoke."

Harry felt that he could not, with good-breeding, detain the count any longer, and, therefore,
rising from his chair, led the way into the smoking-room. When there, the man of the world
separated himself from his young friend, of whose enthusiasm he had perhaps had enough, and
was soon engaged in conversation with sundry other men of his own standing. Harry soon perceived
that his guest had no further need of his countenance, and went home to Bloomsbury Square by
no means satisfied with his new acquaintance.

On the next day he dined in Onslow Crescent with the Burtons, and when there he said nothing
about Lady Ongar or Count Pateroff. He was not aware that he had any special reason for being
silent on the subject, but he made up his mind that the Burtons were people so far removed
in their sphere of life from Lady Ongar, that the subject would not be suitable in Onslow Crescent.
It was his lot in life to be concerned with people of the two classes. He did not at all mean
to say--even to himself--that he liked the Ongar class better; but still, as such was his lot,
he must take it as it came, and entertain both subjects of interest, without any commingling
of them one with another. Of Lady Ongar and his early love he had spoken to Florence at some
length, but he did not find it necessary in his letters to tell her anything of Count Pateroff
and his dinner at the Beaufort. Nor did he mention the dinner to his dear friend Cecilia. On
this occasion he made himself very happy in Onslow Crescent, playing with the children, chatting
with his friend, and enduring, with a good grace, Theodore Burton's sarcasm, when that ever-studious
gentleman told him that he was only fit to go about tied to a woman's apron-string.

Chapter XV

Madame Gordeloup

On the afternoon of the day following his dinner at the Beaufort with Count Pateroff Harry
Clavering called on the Count's sister in Mount Street. He had doubted much as to this, thinking
at any rate he ought, in the first place, to write and ask permission. But at last he resolved
that he would take the count at his word, and presenting himself at the door, he sent up his
name. Madame Gordeloup was at home, and in a few moments he found himself in the room in which
the lady was sitting, and recognized her whom he had seen with Lady Ongar in Bolton Street.
She got up at once, having glanced at the name upon the card, and seemed to know all about
him. She shook hands with him cordially, almost squeezing his hand, and bade him sit down near
her on the sofa. "She was so glad to see him, for her dear Julie's sake. Julie, as of course
he knew, was at 'Ongere' Park. Oh! so happy"--which, by the by, he did not know--"and would
be up in the course of next week. So many things to do, of course, Mr. Clavering. The house,
and the servants, and the park, and the beautiful things of a large country establishment!
But it was delightful, and Julie was quite happy!"

No people could be more unlike to each other than this brother and his sister. No human being
could have taken Madame Gordeloup for an English-woman, though it might be difficult to judge,
either from her language or her appearance, of the nationality to which she belonged. She spoke
English with great fluency, but every word uttered declared her not to be English. And when
she was most fluent she was most incorrect in her language. She was small, eager, and quick,
and appeared quite as anxious to talk as her brother had been to hold his tongue. She lived
in a small room on the first floor of a small house; and it seemed to Harry that she lived
alone. But he had not been long there before she had told him all her history, and explained
to him most of her circumstances. That she kept back something is probable; but how many are
there who can afford to tell everything?

Her husband was still living, but he was at St. Petersburg. He was a Frenchman by family, but
had been born in Russia. He had been attached to the Russian embassy in London, but was now
attached to diplomacy in general in Russia. She did not join him, because she loved England--oh,
so much! And, perhaps, her husband might come back again some day. She did not say that she
had not seen him for ten years, and was not quite sure whether he was dead or alive; but had
she made a clean breast in all things, she might have done so. She said that she was a good
deal still at the Russian embassy; but she did not say that she herself was a paid spy. Nor
do I say so now, positively; but that was the character given to her by many who knew her.
She called her brother Edouard, as though Harry had known the count all his life; and always
spoke of Lady Ongar as Julie. She uttered one or two little hints which seemed to imply that
she knew everything that had passed between "Julie" and Harry Clavering in early days; and
never mentioned Lord Ongar without some term of violent abuse.

"Horrid wretch!" she said, pausing over all the r's in the name she had called him. "It began,
you know, from the very first. Of course he had been a fool. An old roue is always a fool to
marry. What does he get, you know, for his money? A pretty face. He's tired of that as soon
as it's his own. Is it not so, Mr. Clavering? But other people ain't tired of it, and then
he becomes jealous. But Lord Ongar was not jealous. He was not man enough to be jealous. Hor-r-rid
wr-retch!" She then went on telling many things which, as he listened, almost made Harry Clavering's
hair stand on end, and which must not be repeated here. She herself had met her brother in
Paris, and had been with him when they encountered the Ongars in that capital. According to
her showing, they had, all of them, been together nearly from that time to the day of Lord
Ongar's 'death. But Harry soon learned to feel that he could not believe all that the little
lady told him.

"Edouard was always with him. Poor Edouard!" she said. "There was some money matter between
them about ecarte. When that wr-retch got to be so bad, he did not like parting with his money--not
even when he had lost it! And Julie had been so good always! Julie and Edouard had done everything
for the nasty wr-retch." Harry did not at all like this mingling of the name of Julie and Edouard,
though it did not for a moment fill his mind with any suspicion as to Lady Ongar. It made him
feel, however, that this woman was dangerous, and that her tongue might be very mischievous
if she talked to others as she did to him. As he looked at her--and being now in her own room
she was not dressed with scrupulous care--and as he listened to her, he could not conceive
what Lady Ongar had seen in her that she should have made a friend of her. Her brother, the
count, was undoubtedly a gentleman in his manners and way of life, but he did not know by what
name to call this woman, who called Lady Ongar Julie. She was altogether unlike any ladies
whom he had known.

"You know that Julie will be in town next week?"

"No; I did not know when she was to return."

"Oh, yes; she has business with those people in South Audley Street on Thursday. Poor dear!
Those lawyers are so harassing! But when people have seven--thousand--pounds a year, they must
put up with lawyers." As she pronounced those talismanic words, which to her were almost celestial,
Harry perceived for the first time that there was some sort of resemblance between her and
the count. He could see that they were brother and sister. "I shall go to her directly she
comes, and of course I will tell her how good you have been to come to me. And Edouard has
been dining with you? How good of you. He told me how charming you are"--Harry was quite sure
then that she was fibbing--"and that it was so pleasant! Edouard is very much attached to Julie;
very much. Though, of course, all that was mere nonsense; just lies told by that wicked lord.
Bah! what did he know?" Harry by this time was beginning to wish that he had never found his
way to Mount Street.

"Of course they were lies," he said roughly.

"Of course, mon cher. Those things always are lies, and so wicked! What good do they do?"

"Lies never do any good," said Harry.

To so wide a proposition as this madame was not prepared to give an unconditional assent; she
therefore shrugged her shoulders, and once again looked like her brother.

"Ah!" she said. "Julie is a happy woman now. Seven--thousand--pounds a year! One does not know
how to believe it; does one?"

"I never heard the amount of her income," said Harry.

"It is all that," said the Franco-Pole, energetically; "every franc of it, beside the house!
I know it. She told me herself. Yes. What woman would risk that, you know; and his life, you
may say, as good as gone? Of course they were lies."

"I don't think you understand her, Madame Gordeloup."

"Oh, yes; I know her, so well. And love her--oh, Mr. Clavering, I love her so dearly! Is she
not charming? So beautiful, you know, and grand. Such a will, too! That is what I like in a
woman. Such a courage! She never flinched in those horrid days, never. And when he called her--you
know what--she only looked at him, just looked at him, miserable object. Oh, it was beautiful!"
And Madame Gordeloup, rising in her energy from her seat for the purpose, strove to throw upon
Harry such another glance as the injured, insulted wife had thrown upon her foul-tongued, dying
lord.

"She will marry," said Madame Gordeloup, changing her tone with a suddenness that made Harry
start; "yes, she will marry, of course. Your English widows always marry if they have money.
They are wrong, and she will be wrong; but she will marry."

"I do not know how that may be," said Harry, looking foolish.

"I tell you I know she will marry, Mr. Clavering; I told Edouard so yesterday. He merely smiled.
It would hardly do for him, she has so much will. Edouard has a will also."

"All men have, I suppose."

"Ah, yes; but there is a difference. A sum of money down, if a man is to marry, is better than
a widow's dower. If she dies, you know, he looks so foolish. And she is grand and will want
to spend everything. Is she much older than you, Mr. Clavering? Of course I know Julie's age,
though perhaps you do not. What will you give me to tell?" And the woman leered at him with
a smile which made Harry think that she was almost more than mortal. He found himself quite
unable to cope with her in conversation, and soon after this got up to take his leave. "You
will come again," she said. "Do. I like you so much. And when Julie is in town, we shall be
able to see her together, and I will be your friend. Believe me."

Harry was very far from believing her, and did not in the least require her friendship. Her
friendship, indeed! How could any decent English man or woman wish for the friendship of such
a creature as that? It was thus that he thought of her as he walked away from Mount Street,
making heavy accusations, within his own breast, against Lady Ongar as he did so. Julia! He
repeated the name over to himself a dozen times, thinking that the flavor of it was lost since
it had been contaminated so often by that vile tongue. But what concern was it of his? Let
her be Julia to whom she would, she could never be Julia again to him. But she was his friend--Lady
Ongar, and he told himself plainly that his friend had been wrong in having permitted herself
to hold any intimacy with such a woman as that. No doubt Lady Ongar had been subjected to very
trying troubles in the last months of her husband's life, but no circumstances could justify
her, if she continued to endorse the false cordiality of that horribly vulgar and evil-minded
little woman. As regarded the grave charges brought against Lady Ongar, Harry still gave no
credit to them, still looked upon them as calumnies, in spite of the damning advocacy of Sophie
and her brother; but he felt that she must have dabbled in very dirty water to have returned
to England with such claimants on her friendship as these. He had not much admired the count,
but the count's sister had been odious to him. "I will be your friend. Believe me." Harry Clavering
stamped upon the pavement as he thought of the little Pole's offer to him. She be his friend!
No, indeed; not if there were no other friend for him in all London.

Sophie, too, had her thoughts about him. Sophie was very anxious in this matter, and was resolved
to stick as close to her Julie as possible. "I will be his friend or his enemy; let him choose."
That had been Sophie's reflection on the matter when she was left alone.

Ten days after his visit in Mount Street, Harry received the note which Lady Ongar had written
to him on the night of her arrival in London. It was brought to Mr. Beilby's office by her
own footman early in the morning; but Harry was there at the time, and was thus able to answer
it, telling Lady Ongar that he would come as she had desired. She had commenced her letter
"Dear Harry," and he well remembered that when she had before written she had called him "Dear
Mr. Clavering." And though the note contained only half-a-dozen ordinary words, it seemed to
him to be affectionate, and almost loving. Had she not been eager to see him, she would hardly
thus have written to him on the very instant of her return. "Dear Lady Ongar," he wrote, "I
shall dine at my club, and be with you about eight. Yours always, H.C." After that he could
hardly bring himself to work satisfactorily during the whole day. Since his interview with
the Franco-Polish lady he had thought a good deal about himself and had resolved to work harder
and to love Florence Burton more devotedly than ever. The nasty little woman had said certain
words to him which had caused him to look into his own breast and to tell himself that this
was necessary. As the love was easier than the work, he began his new tasks on the following
morning by writing a long and very affectionate letter to his own Flo, who was still staying
at Clavering rectory--a letter so long and so affectionate that Florence, in her ecstasy of
delight, made Fanny read it, and confess that, as a love-letter, it was perfect.

"It's great nonsense, all the same," said Fanny.

"It isn't nonsense at all," said Florence; "and if it were it would not signify. Is it true?
That's the question."

"I'm sure it's true," said Fanny.

"And so am I," said Florence. "I don't want any one to tell me that."

"Then why did you ask, you simpleton?" Florence indeed was having a happy time of it at Clavering
rectory. When Fanny called her a simpleton, she threw her arms round Fanny's neck and kissed her.

And Harry kept his resolve about the work too, investigating plans with a resolution to understand
them which was almost successful. During those days he would remain at his office till past
four o'clock, and would then walk away with Theodore Burton, dining sometimes in Onslow Crescent,
and going there sometimes in the evening after dinner. And when there he would sit and read;
and once when Cecilia essayed to talk to him, he told her to keep her apron-strings to herself.
Then Theodore laughed and apologized, and Cecilia said that too much work made Jack a dull
boy; and then Theodore laughed again, stretching out his legs and arms as he rested a moment
from his own study, and declared that, under those circumstances, Harry never would be dull.
And Harry, on those evenings, would be taken up-stairs to see the bairns in their cots; and
as he stood with their mother looking down upon the children, pretty words would be said about
Florence and his future life; and all was going merry as a marriage bell. But on that morning,
when the note had come from Lady Ongar, Harry could work no more to his satisfaction. He scrawled
upon his blotting-paper, and made no progress whatsoever toward the understanding of anything.
It was the day on which, in due course, he would write to Florence; and he did write to her.
But Florence did not show this letter to Fanny, claiming for it any need of godlike perfection.
It was a stupid, short letter, in which he declared that he was very busy and that his head
ached. In a postscript he told her that he was going to see Lady Ongar that evening. This he
communicated to her under an idea that by doing so he made everything right. And I think that
the telling of it did relieve his conscience.

He left the office soon after three, having brought himself to believe in the headache, and
sauntered down to his club. He found men playing whist there, and, as whist might be good for
his head, he joined them. They won his money, and scolded him for playing badly till he was
angry, and then he went out for a walk by himself. As he went along Piccadilly, he saw Sophie
Gordeloup coming toward him, trotting along, with her dress held well up over her ankles, eager,
quick, and, as he said to himself clearly intent upon some mischief. He endeavored to avoid
her by turning up the Burlington Arcade, but she was too quick for him, and was walking up
the arcade by his side before he had been able to make up his mind as to the best mode of ridding
himself of such a companion.

"Ah, Mr. Clavering, I am so glad to see you. I was with Julie last night. She was fagged, very
much fagged; the journey, you know, and the business. But yet so handsome! And we talked of
you. Yes, Mr. Clavering; and I told her how good you had been in coming to me. She said you
were always good; yes, she did. When shall you see her?"

Harry Clavering was a bad hand at fibbing, and a bad hand also at leaving a question unanswered.
When questioned in this way he did not know what to do but to answer the truth. He would much
rather not have said that he was going to Bolton Street that evening, but he could find no
alternative. "I believe I shall see her this evening," he said, simply venturing to mitigate
the evil of making the communication by rendering it falsely doubtful. There are men who fib
with so bad a grace and with so little tact that they might as well not fib at all. They not
only never arrive at success, but never even venture to expect it.

"Ah, this evening. Let me see. I don't think I can be there to-night; Madame Berenstoff receives
at the embassy."

"Good afternoon," said Harry, turning into Truefit's, the hairdresser's, shop.

"Ah, very well," said Sophie to herself; "just so. It will be better, much better. He is simply
one lout, and why should he have it all? My God, what fools, what louts, are these Englishmen!"
in having read Sophie's thoughts so far, we will leave her to walk up the remainder of the
arcade by herself.

I do not know that Harry's visit to Truefit's establishment had been in any degree caused by
his engagement for the evening. I fancy that he had simply taken to ground at the first hole,
as does a hunted fox. But now that he was there he had his head put in order, and thought that
he looked the better for the operation. He then went back to his club, and when he sauntered
into the card-room one old gentleman looked askance at him, as though inquiring angrily whether
he had come there to make fresh misery. "Thank you; no--I won't play again," said Harry. Then
the old gentleman was appeased, and offered him a pinch of snuff. "Have you seen the new book
about whist?" said the old gentleman. "It is very useful--very useful. I'll send you a copy
if you will allow me." Then Harry left the room, and went down to dinner.

Chapter XVI

An Evening In Bolton Street

It was a little past eight when Harry knocked at Lady Ongar's door. I fear he had calculated
that if he were punctual to the moment, she would think that he thought the matter to be important.
It was important to him, and he was willing that she should know that it was so. But there
are degrees in everything, and therefore he was twenty minutes late. He was not the first man
who has weighed the diplomatic advantage of being after his time. But all those ideas went
from him at once when she met him almost at the door of the room, and, taking him by the hand,
said that she was "so glad to see him--so very glad. Fancy, Harry, I haven't seen an old friend
since I saw you last. You don't know how hard all that seems."

"It is hard," said he; and when he felt the pressure of her hand and saw the brightness of
her eye, and when her dress rustled against him as he followed her to her seat, and he became
sensible of the influence of her presence, all his diplomacy vanished, and he was simply desirous
of devoting himself to her service. Of course, any such devotion was to be given without detriment
to that other devotion which he owed to Florence Burton. But this stipulation, though it was
made, was made quickly, and with a confused brain.

"Yes--it is hard," she said. "Harry, sometimes I think I shall go mad. It is more than I can
bear. I could bear it if it hadn't been my own fault--all my own fault."

There was a suddenness about this which took him quite by surprise. No doubt it had been her
own fault. He also had told himself that; though, of course, he would make no such charge to
her. "You have not recovered yet," he said, "from what you have suffered lately. Things will
look brighter to you after a while."

"Will they? Ah--I do not know. But come, Harry; come and sit down, and let me get you some
tea. There is no harm, I suppose, in having you here--is there ?"

"Harm, Lady Ongar?"

"Yes--harm, Lady Ongar." As she repeated her own name after him, nearly in his tone, she smiled
once again; and then she looked as she used in the old days, when she would be merry with him.
"It is hard to know what a woman may do, and what she may not. When my husband was ill and
dying, I never left his bedside. From the moment of my marrying him till his death, I hardly
spoke to a man but in his presence; and when once I did, it was he that had sent him. And for
all that people have turned their backs upon me. You and I were old friends, Harry, and something
more once--were we not? But I jilted you, as you were man enough to tell me. How I did respect
you when you dared to speak the truth to me. Men don't know women, or they would be harder
to them."

"I did not mean to be hard to you."

"If you had taken me by the shoulders and shaken me, and have declared that before God you
would, not allow such wickedness, I should have obeyed you. I know I should." Harry thought
of Florence, and could not bring himself to say that he wished it had been so. "But where would
you have been then, Harry? I was wrong and false and a beast to marry that man; but I should
not, therefore, have been right to marry you and ruin you. It would have been ruin, you know,
and we should simply have been fools."

"The folly was very pleasant," said he.

"Yes, yes; I will not deny that. But then the wisdom and the prudence afterward! Oh, Harry,
that was not pleasant. That was not pleasant! But what was I saying? Oh! about the propriety
of your being here. It is so hard to know what is proper. As I have been married, I suppose
I may receive whom I please. Is not that the law?"

"You may receive me, I should think. Your sister is my cousin's wife." Harry's matter-of-fact
argument did as well as anything else, for it turned her thought at the moment.

"My sister, Harry! If there was nothing to make us friends but our connection through Sir Hugh
Clavering, I do not know that I should be particularly anxious to see you. How unmanly he has
been, and how cruel."

"Very cruel," said Harry. Then he thought of Archie and Archie's suit. "But he is willing to
change all that now. Hermione asked me the other day to persuade you to go to Clavering."

"And have you come here to use your eloquence for that purpose? I will never go to Clavering
again, Harry, unless it should be yours and your wife should offer to receive me. Then I'd
pack up for the dear, dull, solemn old place though I was on the other side of Europe."

"It will never be mine."

"Probably not, and probably, therefore, I shall never be there again. No; I can forgive an
injury, but not an insult--not an insult such as that. I will not go to Clavering; so, Harry,
you may save your eloquence. Hermione I shall be glad to see whenever she will come to me.
If you can persuade her to that, you will persuade her to a charity."

"She goes nowhere, I think, without his--his--"

"Without his permission. Of course she does not. That, I suppose, is all as it should be. And
he is such a tyrant that he will give no such permission. He would tell her, I suppose, that
her sister was no fit companion for her."

"He could not say that now, as he has asked you there."

"Ah, I don't know that. He would say one thing first and another after, just as it would suit
him. He has some object in wishing that I should go there, I suppose." Harry, who knew the
object, and who was too faithful to betray Lady Clavering, even though he was altogether hostile
to his cousin Archie's suit, felt a little proud of his position, but said nothing in answer
to this. "But I shall not go; nor will I see him, or go to his house when he comes up to London.
When do they come, Harry?"

"He is in town, now."

"What a nice husband, is he not? And when does Hermione come?"

"I do not know; she did not say. Little Hughy is ill, and that may keep her."

"After all, Harry, I may have to pack up and go to Clavering even yet--that is, if the mistress
of the house will have me."

"Never in the way you mean, Lady Ongar. Do not propose to kill all my relations in order that
I might have their property. Archie intends to marry, and have a dozen children."

"Archie marry! Who will have him? But such men as he are often in the way by marrying some
cookmaid at last. Archie is Hugh's body-slave. Fancy being body-slave to Hugh Clavering! He
has two, and poor Hermy is the other; only he prefers not to have Hermy near him, which is
lucky for her. Here is some tea. Let us sit down and be comfortable, and talk no more about
our horrid relations. I don't know what made me speak of them. I did not mean it."

Harry sat down and took the cup from her hand, as she had bidden the servant to leave the tray
upon the table.

"So you saw Count Pateroff," she said.

"Yes, and his sister."

"So she told me. What do you think of them?" To this question Harry made no immediate answer.
"You may speak out. Though I lived abroad with such as them for twelve months, I have not forgotten
the sweet scent of our English hedgerows, nor the wholesomeness of English household manners.
What do you think of them?"

"They are not sweet or wholesome," said he.

"Oh, Harry, you are so honest! Your honesty is beautiful. A spade will ever be a spade with you."

He thought that she was laughing at him, and colored.

"You pressed me to speak," he said, "and I did but use your own words."

"Yes, but you used them with such straightforward violence! Well, you shall use what words
you please, and how you please, because a word of truth is so pleasant after living in a world
of lies. I know you will not lie to me, Harry. You never did."

He felt that now was the moment in which he should tell her of his engagement, but he let the
moment pass without using it. And, indeed, it would have been hard for him to tell. In telling
such a story he would have been cautioning her that it was useless for her to love him--and
this he could not bring himself to do. And he was not sure even now that she had not learned
the fact from her sister. "I hope not," he said. In all that he was saying he knew that his
words were tame and impotent in comparison with hers, which seemed to him to mean so much.
But then his position was so unfortunate! Had it not been for Florence Burton he would have
been long since at her feet; for, to give Harry Clavering his due, he could be quick enough
at swearing to a passion. He was one of those men to whom love-making comes so readily that
it is a pity that they should ever marry. He was ever making love to women, usually meaning
no harm. He made love to Cecilia Burton over her children's beds, and that discreet matron
liked it. But it was a love-making without danger. It simply signified on his part the pleasure
he had in being on good terms with a pretty woman. He would have liked to have made love in
the same way to Lady Ongar; but that was impossible, and in all love-making with Lady Ongar
there must be danger. There was a pause after the expression of his last hopes, during which
he finished his tea, and then looked at his boots.

"You do not ask me what I have been doing at my country-house."

"And what have you been doing there?"

"Hating it."

"That is wrong."

"Everything is wrong that I do; everything must be wrong. That is the nature of the curse upon me."

"You think too much of all that now."

"Ah, Harry, that is so easily said. People do not think of such things if they can help themselves.
The place is full of him and his memories; full of him, though I do not as yet know whether
he ever put his foot in it. Do you know, I have a plan, a scheme, which would, I think, make
me happy for one half-hour. It is to give everything back to the family. Everything! money,
house, and name; to call myself Julia Brabazon, and let the world call me what it pleases.
Then I would walk out into the streets, and beg some one to give me my bread. Is there one
in all the wide world that would give me a crust? Is there one, except yourself, Harry--one,
except yourself?"

Poor Florence! I fear it fared badly with her cause at this moment. How was it possible that
he should not regret, that he should not look back upon Stratton with something akin to sorrow?
Julia had been his first love, and to her he could have been always true. I fear he thought
of this now. I fear that it was a grief to him that he could not place himself close at her
side, bid her do as she had planned, and then come to him, and share all his crusts. Had it
been open to him to play that part, he would have played it well, and would have gloried in
the thoughts of her poverty. The position would have suited him exactly. But Florence was in
the way, and he could not do it. How was he to answer Lady Ongar? It was more difficult now
than ever to tell her of Florence Burton.

His eyes were full of tears, and she accepted that as his excuse for not answering her. "I
suppose they would say that I was a romantic fool. When the price has been taken one cannot
cleanse oneself of the stain. With Judas, you know, it was not sufficient that he gave back
the money. Life was too heavy for him, and so he went out and hanged himself."

"Julia," he said, getting up from his chair, and going over to where she sat on a sofa, "Julia,
it is horrid to hear you speak of yourself in that way. I will not have it. You are not such
a one as the Iscariot." And as he spoke to her, he found her hand in his.

"I wish you had my burden, Harry, for one half day, so that you might know its weight."

"I wish I could bear it for you--for life."

"To be always alone, Harry; to have none that come to me and scold me, and love me, and sometimes
make me smile! You will scold me at any rate; will you not? It is terrible to have no one near
one that will speak to one with the old easiness of familiar affection. And then the pretence
of it where it does not, cannot, could not, exist! Oh, that woman, Harry; that woman who comes
here and calls me Julie! And she has got me to promise too that I would call her Sophie! I
know that you despise me because she comes here. Yes; I can see it. You said at once that she
was not wholesome, with your dear outspoken honesty."

"It was your word."

"And she is not wholesome, whosever word it was. She was there, hanging about him when he was
so bad, before the worst came. She read novels to him--books that I never saw, and played ecarte
with him for what she called gloves. I believe in my heart she was spying me, and I let her
come and go as she would, because I would not seem to be afraid of her. So it grew. And once
or twice she was useful to me. A woman, Harry, wants to have a woman near her sometimes--even
though it be such an unwholesome creature as Sophie Gordeloup. You must not think too badly
of me on her account."

"I will not; I will not think badly of you at all."

"He is better, is he not? I know little of him or nothing, but he has a more reputable outside
than she has. Indeed I liked him. He had known Lord Ongar well; and though he did not toady
him nor was afraid of him, yet he was gentle and considerate. Once to me he said words that
I was called on to resent; but he never repeated them, and I know that he was prompted by him
who should have protected me. It is too bad, Harry, is it not? Too bad almost to be believed
by such as you."

"It is very bad," said Harry.

"After that he was always courteous; and when the end came and things were very terrible, he
behaved well and kindly. He went in and out quietly, and like an old friend. He paid for everything,
and was useful. I know that even this made people talk--yes, Harry, even at such a moment as
that! But in spite of the talking I did better with him then than I could have done without him."

"He looks like a man who could be kind if he chooses."

"He is one of those, Harry, who find it easy to be good-natured, and who are soft by nature,
as cats are--not from their heart, but through instinctive propensity to softness. When it
suits them, they scratch, even though they have been ever so soft before. Count Pateroff is
a cat. You, Harry, I think are a dog." She perhaps expected that he would promise to her that
he would be her dog--a dog in constancy and affection; but he was still mindful in part of
Florence, and restrained himself.

"I must tell you something further," she said. "And indeed it is this that I particularly want
to tell you. I have not seen him, you know, since I parted with him at Florence."

"I did not know," said Harry.

"I thought I had told you. However, so it is. And now, listen: He came down to Ongar Park the
other day while I was there, and sent in his card. When I refused to receive him, he wrote
to me pressing his visit. I still declined, and he wrote again. I burned his note, because
I did not choose that anything from him should be in my possession. He told me some story about
papers of Lord Ongar. I have nothing to do with Lord Ongar's papers. Everything of which I
knew was sealed up in the count's presence and in mine, and was sent to the lawyers for the
executors. I looked at nothing; not at one word in a single letter. What could he have to say
to me of Lord Ongar's papers?"

"Or he might have written?"

"At any rate he should not have come there, Harry. I would not see him, nor, if I can help
it, will I see him here. I will be open with you, Harry. I think that perhaps it might suit
him to make me his wife. Such an arrangement, however, would not suit me. I am not going to
be frightened into marrying a man, because he has been falsely called my lover. If I cannot
escape the calumny in any other way, I will not escape it in that way."

"Has he said anything?"

"No; not a word. I have not seen him since the day after Lord Ongar's funeral. But I have seen
his sister."

"And has she proposed such a thing?"

"No, she has not proposed it. But she talks of it, saying that it would not do. Then when I
tell her that of course it would not do, she shows me all that would make it expedient. She
is so sly and so false, that with all my eyes open I cannot quite understand her, or quite
know what she is doing. I do not feel sure that she wishes it herself."

"She told me that it would not do."

"She did, did she? If she speaks of it again, tell her that she is right, that it will never
do. Had he not come down to Ongar Park, I should not have mentioned this to you. I should not
have thought that he had in truth any such schemes in his head. He did not tell you that he
had been there?"

"He did not mention it. Indeed, he said very little about you at all."

"No, he would not. He is cautious. He never talks of anybody to anybody. He speaks only of
the outward things of the world. Now, Harry, what you must do for me is this." As she was speaking
to him she was leaning again upon the table, with her forehead resting upon her hands. Her
small widow's cap had become thus thrust back, and was now nearly off her head, so that her
rich brown hair was to be seen in its full luxuriance, rich and lovely as it had ever been.
Could it be that she felt--half thought, half felt, without knowing that she thought it--that
while the signs of her widowhood were about her, telling in their too plain language the tale
of what she had been, he could not dare to speak to her of his love? She was indeed a widow,
but not as are other widows. She had confessed, did hourly confess to herself, the guilt which
she had committed in marrying that man; but the very fact of such confessions, of such acknowledgment,
absolved her from the necessity of any show of sorrow. When she declared how she had despised
and hated her late lord, she threw off mentally all her weeds. Mourning, the appearance even
of mourning, became impossible to her, and the cap upon her head was declared openly to be
a sacrifice to the world's requirements. It was now pushed back, but I fancy that nothing like
a thought on the matter had made itself plain to her mind. "What you must do for me is this,"
she continued. "You must see Count Pateroff again, and tell him from me--as my friend--that
I cannot consent to see him. Tell him that if he will think of it, he must know the reason why."

"Of course he will know."

"Tell him what I say, all the same; and tell him that as I have hitherto had cause to be grateful
to him for his kindness, so also I hope he will not put an end to that feeling by anything
now, that would not be kind. If there be papers of Lord Ongar's, he can take them either to
my lawyers, if that be fit, or to those of the family. You can tell him that, can you not?"

"Oh, yes; I can tell him."

"And have you any objection?"

"None for myself. But would it not come better from some one else?"

"Because you are a young man, you mean? Whom else can I trust, Harry? To whom can I go? Would
you have me to ask Hugh to do this? Or, would Archie Clavering be a proper messenger? Whom
else have I?"

"Would not his sister be better?"

"How should I know that she had told him? She would tell him her own story--what she herself
wished. And whatever story she told, he would not believe it. They know each other better than
you and I know them. It must be you, Harry, if you will do it."

"Of course I will. I will try to-morrow. Where does he live?"

"How should I know? Perhaps nobody knows; no one, perhaps, of all those with whom he associates
constantly. They do not live after our fashion, do they, these foreigners? But you will find
him at his club, or hear of him at the house in Mount Street. You will do it; eh, Harry?"

"I will."

"That is my good Harry. But I suppose you would do anything I asked you. Ah, well; it is good
to have one friend, if one has no more. Look, Harry! if it is not near eleven o'clock! Did
you know that you had been here nearly three hours? And I have given you nothing but a cup of tea!"

"What else do you think I have wanted?"

"At your club you would have had cigars and brandy-and-water, and billiards, and broiled bones,
and oysters, and tankards of beer. I know all about it. You have been very patient with me.
If you go quick perhaps you will not be too late for the tankards and the oysters."

"I never have any tankards or any oysters."

"Then it is cigars and brandy-and-water. Go quick, and perhaps you may not be too late."

"I will go, but not there. I cannot change my thoughts so suddenly."

"Go, then; and do not change your thoughts. Go and think of me, and pity me. Pity me for what
I have got, but pity me most for what I have lost." Harry silently took her hand, and kissed
it, and then left her.

Pity her for what she had lost! What had she lost! What did she mean by that? He knew well
what she meant by pitying her for what she had got. What had she lost? She had lost him. Did
she intend to evoke his pity for that loss? She had lost him. Yes, indeed. Whether or no the
loss was one to regret, he would not say to himself; or rather, he, of course, declared that
it was not; but such as it was, it had been incurred. He was now the property of Florence Burton,
and, whatever happened, he would be true to her.

Perhaps he pitied himself also. If so, it is to be hoped that Florence may never know of such
pity. Before he went to bed, when he was praying on his knees, he inserted it in his prayers
that God in whom he believed might make him true in his faith to Florence Burton.

Chapter XVII

The Rivals

Lady Ongar sat alone, long into the night, when Harry Clavering had left her. She sat there
long, getting up occasionally from her seat, once or twice attempting to write at her desk,
looking now and then at a paper or two, and then at a small picture which she had, but passing
the long hours in thinking--in long, sad, solitary thoughts. What should she do with herself--with
herself, her title, and her money? Would it be still well that she should do something, that
she should make some attempt; or should she, in truth, abandon all, as the arch-traitor did,
and acknowledge that for her foot there could no longer be a resting-place on the earth? At
six-and-twenty, with youth, beauty and wealth at her command, must she despair? But her youth
had been stained, her beauty had lost its freshness, and as for her wealth, had she not stolen
it? Did not the weight of the theft sit so heavy on her, that her brightest thought was one
which prompted her to abandon it?

As to that idea of giving up her income and her house, and calling herself again Julia Brabazon,
though there was something in the poetry of it which would now and again for half an hour relieve
her, yet she hardly proposed such a course to herself as a reality. The world in which she
had lived had taught her to laugh at romance, to laugh at it even while she liked its beauty;
and she would tell herself that for such a one as her to do such a thing as this, would be
to insure for herself the ridicule of all who knew her name. What would Sir Hugh say, and her
sister? What Count Pateroff and the faithful Sophie? What all the Ongar tribe, who would reap
the rich harvest of her insanity? These latter would offer to provide her a place in some convenient
asylum, and the others would all agree that such would be her fitting destiny. She could bear
the idea of walking forth, as she had said, penniless into the street, without a crust; but
she could not bear the idea of being laughed at when she got there.

To her, in her position, her only escape was by marriage. It was the solitude of her position
which maddened her: its solitude, or the necessity of breaking that solitude by the presence
of those who were odious to her. Whether it were better to be alone, feeding on the bitterness
of her own thoughts, or to be comforted by the fulsome flatteries and odious falsenesses of
Sophie Gordeloup, she could not tell. She hated herself for her loneliness, but she hated herself
almost worse for submitting herself to the society of Sophie Gordeloup. Why not give all that
she possessed to Harry Clavering--herself, her income, her rich pastures and horses and oxen,
and try whether the world would not be better to her when she had done so.

She had learned to laugh at romance, but still she believed in love. While that bargain was
going on as to her settlement, she had laughed at romance, and had told herself that in this
world worldly prosperity was everything. Sir Hugh then had stood by her with truth, for he
had well understood the matter, and could enter into it with zest. Lord Ongar, in his state
of health, had not been in a position to make close stipulations as to the dower in the event
of his proposed wife becoming a widow. "No, no; we wont stand that," Sir Hugh had said to the
lawyers. "We all hope, of course, that Lord Ongar may live long; no doubt he'll turn over a
new leaf and die at ninety. But in such a case as this the widow must not be fettered." The
widow had not been fettered, and Julia had been made to understand the full advantage of such
an arrangement. But still she had believed in love when she had bade farewell to Harry in the
garden. She had told herself then, even then, that she would have better liked to have taken
him and his love--if only she could have afforded it. He had not dreamed that in leaving him
she had gone from him to her room, and taken out his picture--the same that she had with her
now in Bolton Street--and had kissed it, bidding him farewell there with a passion which she
could not display in his presence. And she had thought of his offer about the money over and
over again. "Yes," she would say, "that man loved me. He would have given me all he had to
relieve me, though nothing was to come to him in return." She had, at any rate been loved once;
and she almost wished that she had taken the money, that she might now have an opportunity
of repaying it.

And she was again free, and her old lover was again by her side. Had that fatal episode in
her life been so fatal that she must now regard herself as tainted and unfit for him? There
was no longer anything to separate them--anything of which she was aware, unless it was that.
And as for his love--did he not look and speak as though he loved her still? Had he not pressed
her hand passionately, and kissed it, and once more called her Julia? How should it be that
he should not love her? In such a case as his, love might have been turned to hatred or to
enmity; but it was not so with him. He called himself her friend. How could there be friendship
between them without love?

And then she thought how much with her wealth she might do for him. With all his early studies
and his talent, Harry Clavering was not the man, she thought, to make his way in the world
by hard work; but with such an income as she could give him, he might shine among the proud
ones of his nation. He should go into Parliament, and do great things. He should be lord of
all. It should all be his without a word of reserve. She had been mercenary once, but she would
atone for that now by open-handed, undoubting generosity. She herself had learned to hate the
house and fields and widespread comforts of Ongar Park. She had walked among it all alone,
and despised. But it would be a glory to her to see him go forth, with Giles at his heels,
boldly giving his orders, changing this and improving that. He would be rebuked for no errors,
let him do with Enoch Gubby and the rest of them what he pleased! And then the parson's wife
would be glad enough to come to her, and the house would be full of smiling faces. And it might
be that God would be good to her, and that she would have treasures, as other women had them,
and that the flavor would come back to the apples, and, that the ashes would cease to grate
between her teeth.

She loved him, and why should it not be so? She could go before God's altar with him without
disgracing herself with a lie. She could put her hand in his, and swear honestly that she would
worship him and obey him. She had been dishonest; but if he would pardon her for that, could
she not reward him richly for such pardon? And it seemed to her that he had pardoned her. He
had forgiven it all and was gracious to her--coming at her beck and call, and sitting with
her as though he liked her presence. She was woman enough to understand this, and she knew
that he liked it. Of course he loved her. How could it be otherwise?

But yet he spoke nothing to her of his love. In the old days there had been with him no bashfulness
of that kind. He was not a man to tremble and doubt before a woman. In those old days he had
bean ready enough--so ready, that she had wondered that one who had just come from his books
should know so well how to make himself master of a girl's heart. Nature had given him that
art, as she does give it to some, withholding it from many. But now he sat near her, dropping
once and again half words of love, hearing her references to the old times; and yet he said
nothing.

But how was he to speak of love to one who was a widow but of four months' standing? And with
what face could he now again ask for her hand, knowing that it had been filled so full since
last it was refused to him? It was thus she argued to herself when she excused him in that
he did not speak to her. As to her widowhood, to herself it was a thing of scorn. Thinking
of it, she cast her weepers from her, and walked about the room, scorning the hypocrisy of
her dress. It needed that she should submit herself to this hypocrisy before the world; but
he might know--for had she not told him?--that the clothes she wore were no index of her feeling
or of her heart. She had been mean enough, base enough, vile enough, to sell herself to that
wretched lord. Mean, base, and vile she had been, and she now confessed it; but she was not
false enough to pretend that she mourned the man as a wife mourns. Harry might have seen enough
to know, have understood enough to perceive, that he need not regard her widowhood.

And as to her money! if that were the stumbling-block, might it not be well that the first
overture should come from her? Could she not find words to tell him that it might all be his?
Could she not say to him, "Harry Clavering, all this is nothing in my hands. Take it into your
hands, and it will prosper." Then, it was that she went to her desk, and attempted to write
to him. She did write to him a completed note, offering herself and all that was hers for his
acceptance. In doing so, she strove hard to be honest and yet not over bold; to be affectionate
and yet not unfeminine. Long she sat, holding her head with one hand, while the other attempted
to use the pen which would not move over the paper. At length, quickly it flew across the sheet,
and a few lines were there for her to peruse.

"Harry Clavering," she had written, "I know I am doing what men and women say no woman should
do. You may, perhaps, say so of me now; but if you do, I know you so well, that I do not fear
that others will be able to repeat it. Harry, I have never loved any one but you. Will you
be my husband? You well know that I should not make you this offer if I did not intend that
everything I have should be yours. It will be pleasant to me to feel that I can make some reparation
for the evil I have done. As for love, I have never loved any one but you. You yourself must
know that well. Yours, altogether, if you will have it so--JULIA."

She took the letter with her back across the room to her seat by the fire, and took with her
at the same time the little portrait; and there she sat, looking at the one and reading the
other. At last she slowly folded the note up into a thin wisp of paper, and, lighting the end
of it, watched it till every shred of it was burnt to an ash. "If he wants me," she said, "he
can come and take me--as other men do." It was a fearful attempt, that which she had thought
of making. How could she have looked him in the face again had his answer to her been a refusal?

Another hour went by before she took herself to her bed, during which her cruelly used maiden
was waiting for her half asleep in the chamber above; and during that time she tried to bring
herself to some steady resolve. She would remain in London for the coming months, so that he
might come to her if he pleased. She would remain there, even though she were subject to the
daily attacks of Sophie Gordeloup. She hardly knew why, but in part she was afraid of Sophie.
She had done nothing of which Sophie knew the secret. She had no cause to tremble because Sophie
might be offended. The woman had seen her in some of her saddest moments, and could indeed
tell of indignities which would have killed some women. But these she had borne, and had not
disgraced herself in the bearing of them. But still she was afraid of Sophie, and felt that
she could not bring herself absolutely to dismiss her friend from her house. Nevertheless,
she would remain; because Harry Clavering was in London and could come to her there. To her
house at Ongar Park she would never go again, unless she went as his wife. The place had become
odious to her. Bad as was her solitude in London, with Sophie Gordeloup to break it, and, perhaps,
with Sophie's brother to attack her, it was not so bad as the silent desolation of Ongar Park.
Never again would she go there, unless she went there, in triumph--as Harry's wife. Having
so far resolved, she took herself at last to her room, and dismissed her drowsy Phoebe to her rest.

And now the reader must be asked to travel down at once into the country, that he may see how
Florence Burton passed the same evening at Clavering Rectory. It was Florence's last night
there, and on the following morning she was to return to her father's house at Stratton. Florence
had not as yet received her unsatisfactory letter from Harry. That was to arrive on the following
morning. At present she was, as regarded her letters, under the influence of that one which
had been satisfactory in so especial a degree. Not that the coming letter--the one now on its
route--was of a nature to disturb her comfort permanently, or to make her in any degree unhappy.
"Dear fellow; he must be careful, he is overworking himself." Even the unsatisfactory letter
would produce nothing worse than this from her; but now, at the moment of which I am writing,
she was in a paradise of happy thoughts.

Her visit to Clavering had been in every respect successful. She had been liked by every one,
and every one in return had been liked by her. Mrs. Clavering had treated her as though she
were a daughter. The Rector had made her pretty presents, had kissed her, and called her his
child. With Fanny she had formed a friendship which was to endure for ever, let destiny separate
them how it might. Dear Fanny! She had had a wonderful interview respecting Fanny on this very
day, and was at this moment disquieting her mind because she could not tell her friend what
had happened without a breach of confidence! She had learned a great deal at Clavering, though
in most matters of learning she was a better instructed woman than they were whom she had met.
In general knowledge and in intellect she was Fanny's superior, though Fanny Clavering was
no fool; but Florence, when she came thither, had lacked something which living in such a house
had given to her; or, I should rather say, something had been given to her of which she would
greatly feel the want, if it could be again taken from her. Her mother was as excellent a woman
as had ever sent forth a family of daughters into the world, and I do not know that any one
ever objected to her as being ignorant, or specially vulgar; but the house in Stratton was
not like Clavering Rectory in the little ways of living, and this Florence Burton had been
clever enough to understand. She knew that a sojourn under such a roof; with such a woman as
Mrs. Clavering, must make her fitter to be Harry's wife; and, therefore, when they pressed
her to come again in the Autumn, she said that she thought she would. She could understand,
too, that Harry was different in many things from the men who had married her sisters, and
she rejoiced that it was so. Poor Florence! Had he been more like them it might have been safer
for her.

But we must return for a moment to the wonderful interview which has been mentioned. Florence,
during her sojourn at Clavering, had become intimate with Mr. Saul, as well as with Fanny.
She had given herself for the time heartily to the schools, and matters had so far progressed
with her that Mr. Saul had on one occasion scolded her soundly. "It's a great sign that he
thinks well of you," Fanny had said. "It was the only sign he ever gave me, before he spoke
to me in that sad strain." On the afternoon of this, her last day at Clavering, she had gone
over to Cumberly Green with Fanny, to say farewell to the children, and walked back by herself;
as Fanny had not finished her work. When she was still about half a mile from the Rectory,
she met Mr. Saul, who was on his way out to the Green.

"I knew I should meet you," he said, "so that I might say good-by."

"Yes, indeed, Mr. Saul--for I am going, in truth, to-morrow."

"I wish you were staying. I wish you were going to remain with us. Having you here is very
pleasant, and you do more good here, perhaps, than you will elsewhere."

"I will not allow that. You forget that I have a father and mother."

"Yes; and you will have a husband soon."

"No, not soon; some day, perhaps, if all goes well. But I mean to be back here often before
that. I mean to be here in October, just for a little visit, if mamma can spare."

"Miss Burton," he said, speaking in a very serious tone--. All his tones were serious, but
that which he now adopted was more solemn than usual. "I wish to consult you on a certain matter,
if you can give me five minutes of your time."

"To consult me, Mr. Saul?"

"Yes, Miss Burton. I am hard pressed at present, and I know no one else of whom I can ask a
certain question, if I cannot ask it of you. I think that you will answer me truly, if you
answer me at all. I do not think you would flatter me, or tell me an untruth."

"Flatter you! How could I flatter you?"

"By telling me--; but I must ask you my question first. You and Fanny Clavering are dear friends
now. You tell each other everything."

"I do not know," said Florence, doubting as to what she might best say, but guessing something
of that which was coming.

"She will have told you, perhaps, that I asked her to be my wife. Did she ever tell you that?"
Florence looked into his face for a few moments without answering him, not knowing how to answer
such a question. "I know that she has told you," said he. "I can see that it is so."

"She has told me," said Florence.

"Why should she not? How could she be with you so many hours, and not tell you that of which
she could hardly fail to have the remembrance often present with her. If I were gone from here,
if I were not before her eyes daily, it might be otherwise; but seeing me as she does from
day to day, of course she has spoken of me to her friend."

"Yes, Mr. Saul; she has told me of it."

"And now, will you tell me whether I may hope."

"Mr. Saul!"

"I want you to betray no secret, but I ask you for your advice. Can I hope that she will ever
return my love?"

"How am I to answer you?"

"With the truth. Only with the truth."

"I should say that she thinks that you have forgotten it."

"Forgotten it! No, Miss Burton; she cannot think that. Do you believe that men or women can
forget such things as that? Can you ever forget her brother? Do you think people ever forget
when they have loved? No, I have not forgotten her. I have not forgotten that walk which we
had down this lane together. There are things which men never forget." Then he paused for an
answer.

Florence was by nature steady and self-collected, and she at once felt that she was bound to
be wary before she gave him any answer. She had half fancied once or twice that Fanny thought
more of Mr. Saul than she allowed even herself to know. And Fanny, when she had spoken of the
impossibility of such a marriage, had always based the impossibility on the fact that people
should not marry without the means of living--a reason which to Florence, with all her prudence,
was not sufficient. Fanny might wait as she also intended to wait. Latterly, too, Fanny had
declared more than once to Florence her conviction that Mr. Saul's passion had been a momentary
insanity which had altogether passed away; and in these declarations Florence had half fancied
that she discovered some tinge of regret. If it were so, what was she now to say to Mr. Saul?

"You think then, Miss Burton," he continued, "that I have no chance of success? I ask the question
because if I felt certain that this was so quite certain--I should be wrong to remain here.
It has been my first and only parish, and I could not leave it without bitter sorrow. But if
I were to remain here hopelessly, I should become unfit for my work. I am becoming so, and
shall be better away."

"But why ask me, Mr. Saul?"

"Because I think that you can tell me."

"But why not ask herself? Who can tell you so truly as she can do?"

"You would not advise me to do that if you were sure that she would reject me?"

"That is what I would advise."

"I will take your advice, Miss Burton. Now, good-by, and may God bless you. You say you will
be here in the Autumn; but before the Autumn I shall probably have left Clavering. If so our
farewells will be for very long, but I shall always remember our pleasant intercourse here."
Then he went on toward Cumberly Green; and Florence, as she walked into the vicarage grounds
was thinking that no girl had ever been loved by a more single-hearted, pure-minded gentleman
than Mr. Saul.

As she sat alone in her bed-room, five or six hours after this interview, she felt some regret
that she should leave Clavering without a word to Fanny on the subject. Mr. Saul had exacted
no promise of secresy from her; he was not a man to exact such promises. But she felt not the
less that she would be betraying confidence to speak, and it might even be that her speaking
on the matter would do more harm than good. Her sympathies were doubtless with Mr. Saul, but
she could not therefore say that she, thought Fanny ought to accept his love. It would be best
to say nothing of the matter, and to allow Mr. Saul to fight his own battle.

Then she turned to her own matters, and there she found that everything was pleasant. How good
the world had been to her to give her such a lover as Harry Clavering! She owned with all her
heart the excellence of being in love when a girl might be allowed to call such a man her own.
She could not but make comparisons between him and Mr. Saul, though she knew that she was making
them on points that were hardly worthy of her thoughts. Mr. Saul was plain, uncouth, with little
that was bright about him except the brightness of his piety. Harry was like the morning star.
He looked and walked and spoke as though he were something more godlike than common men. His
very voice created joy, and the ring of his laughter was to Florence as the music of the heavens.
What woman would not have loved Harry Clavering? Even Julia Brabazon--a creature so base that
she had sold herself to such a thing as Lord Ongar for money and a title, but so grand in her
gait and ways, so Florence had been told, that she seemed to despise the earth on which she
trod--even she had loved him. Then as Florence thought of what Julia Brabazon might have had
and of what she had lost, she wondered that there could be women born so sadly vicious.

But that woman's vice had given her her success, her joy, her great triumph! It was surely
not for her to deal hardly with the faults of Julia Brabazon--for her who was enjoying all
the blessings of which those faults had robbed the other! Julia Brabazon had been her very
good friend.

But why had this perfect lover come to her, to one so small, so trifling, so little in the
world's account as she, and given to her all the treasure of his love? Oh, Harry--dear Harry!
what could she do for him that would be a return good enough for such great goodness? Then
she took out his last letter, that satisfactory letter, that letter that had been declared
to be perfect, and read it and read it again. No; she did not want Fanny or any one else to
tell her that he was true. Honesty and truth were written on every line of his face, were to
be heard in every tone of his voice, could be seen in every sentence that came from his hand.
Dear Harry; dearest Harry! She knew well that he was true.

Then she also sat down and wrote to him, on that her last night beneath his father's roof--wrote
to him when she had nearly prepared herself for her bed; and honestly, out of her full heart,
thanked him for his love. There was no need that she should be coy with him now, for she was
his own. "Dear Harry, when I think of all that you have done for me in loving me and choosing
me for your wife, I know that I can never pay you all that I owe you."

Such were the two rival claimants for the hand of Harry Clavering.

Chapter XVIII

"Judge Not That Ye Be Not Judged"

A week had passed since the evening which Harry had spent in Bolton Street, and he had not
again seen Lady Ongar. He had professed to himself that his reason for not going there was
the non-performance of the commission which Lady Ongar had given him with reference to Count
Pateroff. He had not yet succeeded in catching the Count, though he had twice asked for him
in Mount Street and twice at the club in Pall Mall. It appeared that the Count never went to
Mount Street, and was very rarely seen at the club. There was some other club which he frequented,
and Harry did not know what club. On both the occasions of Harry's calling in Mount Street,
the servant had asked him to go up and see madame; but he had declined to do so, pleading that
he was hurried. He was, however, driven to resolve that he must go direct to Sophie, as otherwise
he could find no means of doing as he had promised. She probably might put him on the scent
of her brother.

But there had been another reason why Harry had not gone to Bolton Street, though he had not
acknowledged it to himself. He did not dare to trust himself with Lady Ongar. He feared that
he would be led on to betray himself and to betray Florence--to throw himself at Julia's feet
and sacrifice his honesty, in spite of all his resolutions to the contrary. He felt when there
as the accustomed but repentant dram-drinker might feel, when, having resolved to abstain,
he is called upon to sit with the full glass offered before his lips. From such temptations
as that the repentant dram-drinker knows that he must fly. But though he did not go after the
fire-water of Bolton Street, neither was he able to satisfy himself with the cool fountain
of Onslow Crescent. He was wretched at this time--ill-satisfied with himself and others--and
was no fitting companion for Cecilia Burton. The world, he thought, had used him ill. He could
have been true to Julia Brabazon when she was well-nigh penniless. It was not for her money
that he had regarded her. Had he been now a free man--free from those chains with which he
had fettered himself at Stratton--he would again have asked this woman for her love, in spite
of her past treachery; but it would have been for her love, and not for her money, that he
would have sought her. Was it his fault that he had loved her, that she had been false to him,
and that she had now come back and thrown herself before him? or had he been wrong because
he had ventured to think that he loved another when Julia had deserted him? Or could he help
himself if he now found that his love in truth belonged to her whom he had known first? The
world had been very cruel to him, and he could not go to Onslow Crescent, and behave there
prettily, hearing the praises of Florence with all the ardor of a discreet lover.

He knew well what would have been his right course, and yet he did not follow it. Let him but
once communicate to Lady Ongar the fact of his engagement, and the danger would be over, though
much, perhaps, of the misery might remain. Let him write to her, and mention the fact, bringing
it up as some little immaterial accident, and she would understand what he meant. But this
he abstained from doing. Though he swore to himself that he would not touch the dram, he would
not dash down the full glass that was held to his lips. He went about the town very wretchedly,
looking for the Count, and regarding himself as a man specially marked out for sorrow by the
cruel hand of misfortune. Lady Ongar, in the meantime, was expecting him, and was waxing angry
and becoming bitter toward him because he came not.

Sir Hugh Clavering was now in London, and with him was his brother Archie. Sir Hugh was a man
who strained an income, that was handsome and sufficient for a country gentleman, to the very
utmost, wanting to get out of it more than it could be made to give. He was not a man to be
in debt, or indulge himself with present pleasures to be paid for out of the funds of future
years. He was possessed of a worldly wisdom which kept him from that folly, and taught him
to appreciate fully the value of independence. But he was ever remembering how many shillings
there are in a pound, and how many pence in a shilling. He had a great eye to discount, and
looked closely into his bills. He searched for cheap shops; and some men began to say of him
that he had found a cheap establishment for such wines as he did not drink himself! In playing
cards and in betting, he was very careful, never playing high, never risking much, but hoping
to turn something by the end of the year, and angry with himself if he had not done so. An
unamiable man he was, but one whose heir would probably not quarrel with him--if only he would
die soon enough. He had always had a house in town--a moderate house in Berkeley Square, which
belonged to him, and had belonged to his father before him. Lady Clavering had usually lived
there during the season; or, as had latterly been the case, during only a part of the season.
And now it had come to pass, in this year, that Lady Clavering was not to come to London at
all, and that Sir Hugh was meditating whether the house in Berkeley Square might not be let.
The arrangement would make the difference of considerably more than a thousand a year to him.
For himself, he would take lodgings. He had no idea of giving up London in the Spring and early
Summer. But why keep up a house in Berkeley Square, as Lady Clavering did not use it?

He was partly driven to this by a desire to shake off the burden of his brother. When Archie
chose to go to Clavering, the house was open to him. That was the necessity of Sir Hugh's position,
and he could not avoid it unless he made it worth his while to quarrel with his brother. Archie
was obedient, ringing the bell when he was told, looking after the horses, spying about, and
perhaps saving as much money as he cost. But the matter was very different in Berkeley Square.
No elder brother is bound to find breakfast and bed for a younger brother in London. And yet,
from his boyhood upward, Archie had made good his footing in Berkeley Square. In the matter
of the breakfast, Sir Hugh had indeed, of late, got the better of him. The servants were kept
on board wages, and there were no household accounts. But there was Archie's room, and Sir
Hugh felt this to be a hardship.

The present was not the moment for actually driving forth the intruder, for Archie was now
up in London, especially under his brother's auspices. And if the business on which Captain
Clavering was now intent could be brought to a successful issue, the standing in the world
of that young man would be very much altered. Then he would be a brother of whom Sir Hugh might
be proud--a brother who would pay his way, and settle his points at whist if he lost them,
even to a brother. If Archie could induce Lady Ongar to marry him, he would not be called upon
any longer to ring the bells and look after the stable. He would have bells of his own, and
stables, too, and perhaps some captain of his own to ring them and look after them. The expulsion,
therefore, was not to take place till Archie should have made his attempt upon Lady Ongar.

But Sir Hugh would admit of no delay, whereas Archie himself seemed to think that the iron
was not yet quite hot enough for striking. It would be better, he had suggested, to postpone
the work till Julia could be coaxed down to Clavering in the Autumn. He could do the work better,
he thought; down at Clavering than in London. But Sir Hugh was altogether of a different opinion.
Though he had already asked his sister-in-law to Clavering, when the idea had first come up,
he was glad that she had declined the visit. Her coming might be very well, if she accepted
Archie; but he did not want to be troubled with any renewal of his responsibility respecting
her, if, as was more probable, she should reject him. The world still looked askance at Lady
Ongar, and Hugh did not wish to take up the armor of a paladin in her favor. If Archie married
her, Archie would be the paladin; though, indeed, in that case, no paladin would be needed.

"She has only been a widow, you know, four months," said Archie, pleading for delay. "It won't
be delicate, will it?"

"Delicate!" said Sir Hugh. "I don't know whether there is much of delicacy in it at all."

"I don't see why she isn't to be treated like any other woman. If you were to die, you'd think
it very odd if any fellow came up to Hermy before the season was over.

"Archie, you are a fool," said Sir Hugh; and Archie could see, by his brother's brow, that
Hugh was angry. "You say things that, for folly and absurdity, are beyond belief. If you can't
see the peculiarities of Julia's position, I am not going to point them out to you."

"She is peculiar, of course--having so much money, and that place near Guilford, all her own
for her life. Of course it's peculiar. But four months, Hugh!"

"If it had been four days it need have made no difference. A home, with some one to support
her, is everything to her. If you wait till lots of fellows are buzzing around her you won't
have a chance. You'll find that by this time next year she'll be the top of the fashion; and
if not engaged to you, she will be to some one else. I shouldn't be surprised if Harry were
after her again."

"He's engaged to that girl we saw down at Clavering."

"What of that? Engagements can be broken as well as made. You have this great advantage over
every one, except him, that you can go to her at once without doing anything out of the way.
That girl that Harry has in tow may perhaps keep him away for some time."

"I tell you what, Hugh, you might as well call with me the first time."

"So that I may quarrel with her, which I certainly should do--or, rather, she with me. No,
Archie; if you're afraid to go alone, you'd better give it up."

"Afraid! I'm not afraid!"

"She can't eat you. Remember that with her you needn't stand on your p's and q's, as you would
with another woman. She knows what she is about, and will understand what she has to get as
well as what she is expected to give. All I can say is, that if she accepts you, Hermy will
consent that she shall go to Clavering as much as she pleases till the marriage takes place.
It couldn't be done, I suppose, till after a year; and in that case she shall be married at
Clavering."

Here was a prospect for Julia Brabazon--to be led to the same altar, at which she had married
Lord Ongar, by Archie Clavering, twelve month's after her first husband's death, and little
more than two years after her first wedding! The peculiarity of the position did not quite
make itself apparent either to Hugh or to Archie; but there was one point which did suggest
itself to the younger brother at that moment.

"I don't suppose there was anything really wrong, eh?"

"Can't say, I'm sure," said Sir Hugh.

"Because I shouldn't like--"

"If I were you I wouldn't trouble myself about that. Judge not, that you be not judged."

"Yes, that's true, to be sure," said Archie; and on that point he went forth satisfied.

Chapter XIX

Let Her Know That You're There

