=The Family Demand upon Unmarried Women.=--The social demand upon women who are at work in
any field of personal endeavor, whether that be professional, clerical, manual or artistic,
has been outlined before in this treatment of the relation of the home to society in general
as involving sortie special consideration of family needs. This may seem a negligible quantity
to many women, unmarried, with relatives all self-supporting or well-to-do. There is no reason
why a daughter should be called "undutiful" or "selfish" who is absorbed in her own work than
why a son should be so esteemed when there is no special reason why other members of the family
should hold that daughter's time and effort at their disposal. The selfishness may be on the
other side, and often is where parents or near relatives within the family bond try to burden
the young woman with odds and ends of family service, which others might as well assume, and
leave her with no ambition or opportunity for personal achievement. There are, however, in
this complicated life of ours many contingencies of family experience which still demand from
daughters a share in time and strength which sons may more easily concentrate upon their own
work. This fact, often operating unconsciously, leads many young women to choices of types
of work which have fixed hours and easy adjustment to frequent absences from work. These give
little chance for rising in wage or position and often give low wages from the start. This
tendency keeps many women from success in work and is often a reason why men distrust and oppose
their entrance into a new field of industry.

The first essential of character, it must be insisted, is the power of self-support, of self-direction,
of self-achievement. This is, now seen to be an essential for women as for men. The only adequate
solution of problems of commercialized prostitution includes for each girl capable of that
attainment the power of easy and complete self-support. Hence, the family has no right to take
from its members some present advantage which will handicap potential workers, either boys
or girls, in their struggle to meet adult responsibilities of economic life. Hence, again,
the whole question of vocational preparation for girls, as well as for boys, has right-of-way
as against any temporary or easily dispensed-with helping in family emergencies which may seriously
hamper the future wage-earner. This is now being seen clearly; and the consequence is that
parents do without for themselves both luxuries and often comforts, in order that their children
shall have a chance in general education and in vocational training to fit them for later economic
success. This fact, so honorable to parents, often leads away from family unity by increasing
a chasm of culture and of condition between parents and children. This, again, indicates that
the modern standardization of child-care and of parental duty has in it elements that demand
far more developed character in all the members of a family in order to hold together by affection,
justice, and higher compulsions of tenderness those who have by virtue of the self-sacrifice
of the older ones lost touch on many of the common fields of effort.

=Farming and the Farmer's Wife.=--There is one great area both of man's work and of woman's
work which supremely needs better understanding and more efficient organization in the interest
of family life. That is the basic industry of all civilized life, farming, and woman's service
in the farm home. We now generally place our farm houses far apart from each other, and we
have usually but one house on the place and that for the owner and his family. We have no adequate
provisions by which the seasonal nature of agricultural work can be so arranged by ingenious
dovetailing with other forms of labor as to furnish an all-the-year employment to men who wish
to marry and bring up families and yet do not own but work upon farms. We have few means for
easing the burdens of household labor for the farmer's wife, and hence the larger the farm,
the more property it represents, the more men laborers it demands for the owner's successful
conduct of the business, the more unbearable the pressure upon health, strength, time, and
energy of the woman who is the farmer's helpmate. These are some of the fundamental reasons
for the drift away from farm life to the cities and the towns, a drift seen to be ominous and
if not checked socially destructive of national prosperity when the Great War forced us to
take account of social conditions in the United States more seriously than ever before.

The girls of the farms want to go away from home to find easier work than their mother's kitchens
afford quite as much as do the boys who wish to get away from the summer drudgery and the winter
dulness of the isolated farmstead; and now the girls can get away easily and often do. It is
the lack of workers to adequately aid those in command of agricultural life which is more than
all things else the difficulty that must be faced, wrestled with, and overcome if we would
keep adequate numbers on the farms. The effect of the drift away from the country upon general
family life is too evidently bad to need any intensive statement here. The congestion of cities,
the street life of children which makes legal offenses of acts natural and necessary to free
play, the walking of city streets by armies of unemployed fathers and those who might be fathers
while harvests are lost for want of laborers, the lack of food in one stratum of society while
in another there are no people to eat what nature provides so abundantly--all this and more
rises in the mind of everyone who understands that in the right adjustment of agriculture to
the people's needs lies the best interests of all. The sorry picture of the haggard woman,
widow, deserted, or divorced, scrubbing on her knees all night long the marble floors of a
vast office-building, to hurry back to her locked-in children in the early morning hours, to
fall exhausted on the bed until the call of the alarm clock to get breakfast and send the little
ones to school--this picture has been portrayed often to Consumer's League and Women's Club
audiences and has made many women of position and of influence call for drastic prohibition
of such overwork of mothers. It has also made women work diligently until they secured forms
of help from the public purse to subsidize such mothers and give them state aid until the children
were able to earn something for themselves. There are many who can visualize that scrubwoman,
and who can place beside her as needing social aid the sewing-machine operator, the garment-finisher
or the flower-maker in the tenement sweatshop, who can not see that the farm-house mother is
often subjected to labor conditions that sap life and health and doom her children to weakness.
These opposite poles of woman's work both call for better social understanding and more intelligent
and devoted social work. The scrubwoman, or the poverty-bound tenement worker may be proper
subjects for public or private philanthropy; the farm-house mother is or should be the prime
object of social justice and social engineering for ends of social well-being. Upon the farmer
and his wife and also upon the miner and his wife and the forest worker and his wife rest the
very foundations of economic stability and industrial security. Those who procure at first
hand the raw material of manufacture and of commerce are too precious to social order for any
neglect of conditions in their work. In many foreign countries the land seems to shrink dangerously
as population grows. In our vast country and in the stretches of Canada, North America seems,
as Lowell said, to have "room beside her hearth for all mankind." And yet, in New York City
and in other centres of population, there are swarms of people, many of them of foreign birth,
of varying races and of different nationalities, crowding each other to suffocation and many
of them holding out hands for charity, who might, if rightly aided toward a different environment,
work to full support of themselves and their families in the fresh air and healthful surroundings
of the country. The need is to transfer city advantages to the country in far greater extent,
and to transfer the people who cannot find or make a human chance in the city to the wide spaces
and work needs of the country. Rural life must be urbanized, city life must be relieved of
those who hinder the making of a beautiful and noble civic life, not because they are incapable
but because there are too many of them who have not yet arrived at full capacity for vocational
achievement and cannot do so in the crowd with which they have to contend.

=Domestic Help and Family Life.=--For the relief of family life in the matter of domestic help
there must be an intelligent and an earnest attack of educated women upon the problems involved.
The admirable suggestions of Professor Lucy Salmon in her Democracy in the Household[16] indicate
the chief difficulty in getting and keeping the right sort of domestic worker. The personal
relation is not that of equals but of superior to inferior, and the helper in the home is isolated
socially from the group he or she serves. This is felt peculiarly in cases where but one helper
is employed within the household. The petition of many housewives recently sent to Washington
to beg that "the restriction upon immigration now in force may be lifted in the case of women
who seek to enter the United States to engage in domestic labor" on the ground of a household
need, dire and widespread, is an indication that many women, perhaps most, look forward to
a continuance of the present conditions of domestic work but with ever-new sets of domestic
workers from other lands. Their attitude in this particular is wholly mistaken. Even if the
races from all the ends of the earth should one by one troop through the kitchens of American
housewives, most of them would not stay long enough to even learn how to do good work in those
kitchens. The first chance they got the factory or shop or even the canning shed or the open
field of harvest would take them away. And this is not because the work in the home is too
hard, or the room and food not so good as elsewhere, but because domestic service is the last
stronghold of aristocracy and no one brought in touch with democratic ideas will long accept
it. Miss Salmon's ideas, if carried out, would stay the rapidity of the current away from domestic
service. But a quite new approach to the whole problem must be defined and realized by women
of light and leading if we would have adequate and efficient help In household work. The fact
that most professional or business women find it far easier to get good help where but one
domestic worker is kept, than do most women who have no outside duties, gives one key to the
situation. As one woman of character and education far above that of most household workers
said, "I do housework for Mrs. So and So, for she teaches and there is a reason why she needs
help. I would not take a place where there were women in the family who could do the housework
themselves perfectly well and wait upon them."

The absurd hypocrisy that in one breath praises all work done for the comfort of the family
as the highest form of service and in the next demands that the family "servant" accept all
manner of inherited insignia of social inferiority must be outgrown. In the city and suburban
towns the hour-service and the various forms of commercial aids to household tasks may work,
as has been before indicated, to gradually do away with the servant class, in the old sense
of those words and without much social consciousness of the change. In the small towns and
in the rural districts, where is now the most acute suffering and need of housemothers, there
must be a conscious and a wholesale movement to reinstate domestic service on a plane compatible
with democracy and amenable to high standards of intelligence and efficiency. When one thinks
of the rural need for teachers, for nurses, for doctors, for kindergartners, for recreation
managers, for community leaders, one is tempted to call for a social conscription that shall
make all graduates from normal and teacher-training schools, from all schools for social work,
and all hospitals, from all playground classes and settlements, serve for a period of one year
or two in the country districts as their part in social organization. Surely if a government
has the moral right to force youth to serve in war for purposes of destruction of enemies,
it has a right to compel youth to serve in peace for purposes of human conservation and for
the just sharing of social advantages by all the people of a common country!

=The Application of Democratic Principles to Life.=--Finally, the problems which inhere in
work as related to the family have at their base the same great demand for equality of educational
and economic opportunities which inhere in all that relates to the application of democratic
principles to actual living. This is not an essay on economic theory or a statement of the
results of special studies of economic condition. Still less is it an attempt to make an appeal
for one or another type of economic reform. It is simply a partial view of certain work conditions
as they come closest to family life. There is to this writer no more merit or demerit in any
form of economic dogmatism than in any special theologic creed. We may all differ, and with
reasons sufficient to our thought and without blame, on questions of how we can best attain
a true democratization of the industrial order. We cannot now be of two minus as to the righteousness
of such democratization. We must all believe in giving all human beings a fair chance at the
best things of life; security against want, homes that offer conditions for family well-being,
educational entrance into our common social inheritance, and leisure to enjoy the things that
make for happiness. The baptism of religious idealism by the social spirit is now accomplished.
As Dr. Walter Rauschenbusch, that great prophet of a new social order, well says in his last
thought-compelling book, "The social gospel has become orthodox."

=Women Must be More Democratic.=--Women have been so long held within family interests that
they, less than men, have had the discipline of democratic life within the labor world. They
are often the vicarious expressions of man's remaining aristocratic feeling, as Veblen has
acutely outlined in his Theory of the Leisure Class. Husbands still wish their wives to be
more "select" than they find it wise longer to be themselves and more tenacious of inherited
conventional forms than business or inclination longer allow for themselves. Hence, women have
not, as a rule, organized their households on as democratic principles and methods as men have
organized their own work. Women, now that they have attained the democratic position in the
state which they have long worked for must apply the principles they have preached in that
crusade for political equality in the very stronghold of social caste and rigid class-feeling,
the family life itself. And even if they have to educate their husbands in the process.

Woman may do this, first, by wiping out and forever the stigma that attaches or has attached
to any woman who earns money outside her own home. They may do it, second, by so relating themselves
to professional, clerical, manual workers among their own sex as to show that they really believe
in equality of rights and mutuality of duties among all classes. They may do it, third, by
taking hold of the household service problem radically and from the basis of actual knowledge
of its importance to personal and family well-being. They may show actual regard for the dignity
of the functions implied, by the treatment accorded the competent, faithful, and often indispensable
domestic helper. There is a big social job waiting for women in matters concerning the work
of their own sex both within and without the family circle; and the social power of women will
be best shown, perhaps, in settling the worst problems of domestic service by the wiser and
more efficient use of better educated, more socially respected, and more definitely standardized
workers within the home.

=The Social Effect of Trade Unions.=--No study of the relation of modern industry to family
life, however brief and inadequate, can ignore the question, "How has the Trade Union organization
of wage-earners affected the home?" The immediate and direct effect has often been disastrous
when strikes and lockouts marked the course of industrial warfare. All war is bad for family
life and especially injurious to the development of children. And economic war lacks the appeal
to the imagination and the ceremonial prestige of war between nations or of civil war in one
country. We have had in our race-experience for untold ages the linking of military training
with military defence of political ideas and of the fatherland. To fight for one's country
seems highly honorable. This lift of the sense of community unity into the area of supreme
struggle gives to men often what no other experience so far accomplishes, namely, a feeling
of spiritual union with all other men who also struggle for what they believe to be right.
In labor wars; in the strife between employer and employed, that sense of race unity even when
struggling against a national enemy, that which gives what Professor James well called the
"mystic element in militarism," is lacking. It is a fight between men who have and those who
have not and feel themselves defrauded of just due. Hence, although the fight may be bitter
even unto death, and the sacrifices of immediate comfort for ultimate ends beyond measure heroic
and even wise, there can be little of the pomp and circumstance that accompany national and
international warfare. The Decoration Days when heroes of past conflicts are praised and receive
from all the reverence which patriotism pays to those believed to have saved some precious
inheritance from harm do not yet, perhaps will never, include heroes of labor struggles for
equal right and mutual justice. Yet the history of industrial changes shows beyond cavil or
doubt that in this field, as in others, he who would be free himself must win his freedom.
The basic principle of the Trade Union, the right and usefulness of collective bargaining,
inheres in the conditions of machine-dominated and capitalized industry. In this form of labor
organization the individual worker cannot bargain individually; his place in the factory is
too infinitesimal and his power measured by that of his employer too invisible for such personal
alignment. This fact is now not questioned by any but those so enamoured of old methods of
control of the worker by those who hire him that they cannot see what has really happened both
to the employer and the employed. The labor struggle had to come. The right of workers to combine
and to work together for what seems to them their best interests is as inherent a part of modern
democratic ideals as is the right of all citizens to vote. And since modern industry has given
enormous power to a few master leaders and requires so many wage-earners to carry out its enterprises
the struggle has necessarily been hard and long. No one can justly place all good behavior
on one or the other side in this conflict. No one can fail to see that power attained by the
Trade Unions has at times been used as selfishly as the power of the employers has been. But
when we remember that until the first quarter of the nineteenth century combinations of workmen,
even to respectfully ask an increase of wages or a bettering of work conditions in lessening
of hours and in sanitary and moral provisions in work-places, was legally a "conspiracy," and
liable to harsh punishments, we must be glad that at any temporary cost the main army of laborers
has been organized from a mob of oppressed individual workers. But what a cost to the family
has been often paid! Mothers already overworked and under-nourished still further starved by
the "strike relief" that only serves to maintain wretchedness, not to abolish it. The sufferings
of children who miss even the meagre family comfort which the too small pay of the father when
at work was able to supply. The greater suffering of children shunned and ill-treated by school
mates when the father is called a "scab." The deeper tragedy of experience of men who take
work that their labor comrades have refused because of the claim of wife and children, and
are abused, both in body and in denial of sympathy and respect, because they are thought to
be traitors to their striking fellows. What is hinted at in these few words could be made into
one of the great dramas of the ages if only the social imagination could take into understanding
and show without partiality both sides of the picture. The time may come when it will be seen
that in all wars some heroes fall on the side that is called wrong and have right to meed of
deferred praise. When that time comes, the history of labor conflicts will show that in the
struggle between the father's duty to his children and the wife who shares his service to them,
and his duty toward the democratizing of labor by force of battle for justice and a fair chance
for all his class, heroes and martyrs have fallen on both sides of the line. Meanwhile, the
encouraging thing is that Labor Commissions and permanent Boards of Investigation and Arbitration
and many government devices for securing a more even justice all around the circle of wage-earning
activity are increasing in evidence as a sign that we are on the way to bring the common need
for peace and order in industry to bear upon its warring elements. It only needs that the great
consuming public, the final and the worst sufferer when labor wars are waged, shall understand
and use its overmastering social power to bring order out of the chaos of opposing interests.

=Women's Trade Unions.=--The entrance of women into the Trade Union field is a significant
feature of modern industry. Denied in many men's Unions the right of membership and in many
fields of work competing only with those of their own sex, yet obviously in need of the same
declaration of rights and the same class support of each other in securing better conditions
of labor that men realized before them, the Women's Trade Union members have much the same
spirit and many of the same methods that men have used in similar bodies. They, as a rule,
stand, however, for more protective legislation for women than men demand for themselves and
have one element unique in such bodies. That element is the membership within Women's Trade
Unions of women of social position, of financial security and even of wealth and of broadest
culture. These women who join the Trade Union League not to benefit their own class, which
is usually the professional or the employing class, but to help wage-earning women to better
conditions, have often been the laboring oar in the organization and maintenance of such Unions.
Nothing analogous to this is found in the Men's Trade Union movement in the United States.
It bears witness to two elements, one that women of the so-called privileged classes are growing
very sensitive to the claims of social justice as these are related to wage-earning women,
and the other that the average age of wage-earning women is so much younger than that of men
employed in similar work that the need for help from without in any effective effort for relief
from bad conditions is more apparent. The transitory character of much of women's work makes
the permanent personnel of any Trade Union League of women a smaller minority of its membership
than in the case of men. It is said that in any trade where both the men and the women are
well organized the membership of the men's Union will be fairly stable for twenty years, that
of the women's Union will show a radical change each five years, making almost a complete turn-over
in the twenty years' count. That is, of course, due to the fact that most women use for wage-earning
only the period between leaving school and marrying, usually about four and a half years. That
makes the term "working-girls" most appropriate and is a contrast to the working man's longer
hold upon his trade.

=The New Solidarity of Women.=--The fact that women of all types of social advantage and disadvantage
are already linked together in the Women's Trade Union movement, has, however, deep social
significance, especially as wage-earners' organizations relate themselves to family life. No
woman who has had right opportunities for education and family life in her own experience can
work in intimate comradeship with those who have been denied such advantages without aiming
directly for social arrangements in labor which will no longer cheat any young life of its
joy, its culture, or chance for its possibility of right relation in the home. The signs are
full of hope that more and more members of each class will feel that society as a whole has
claims upon them above all that any group may attain by working only for its own advantage.
No law of justice will stand the test of time save that which ordains an order in which "Each
for All, and All for Each" will be the rule in industry as in the nobler state!

QUESTIONS ON THE FAMILY AND THE WORKERS

  1. What is most important to the success of the modern family, a
     minimum wage for working women or a minimum wage for men which
     can supply decent living for a man, his wife, and at least
     three children?

  2. What effect has the wage-earning of married women and mothers
     in gainful employments outside the home had upon the stability
     and happiness of the family?

  3. What effect have the laws protecting women and children in
     industry had upon family life?

  4. What effect would the proposed increase of legislation placing
     men and women, married and single women, and unionized and
     non-unionized labor upon an identical legal plane be likely to
     have upon family life? As, for example, in the case of
     "deserting husbands," or in work especially inimical to women's
     health?

  5. How can the admitted evil of industrial exploitation of
     children be best and most surely prevented?

FOOTNOTES:

[16] See American Journal of Sociology for January, 1912.

CHAPTER XIV

THE FAMILY AND THE SCHOOL

  "To prepare us for complete living is the function which education
  has to discharge, and we judge the value of any training solely by
  reference to this end.

  "The final value of all institutions is their educational
  influence; they are measured morally by the occasions they afford
  and the guidance they supply for the exercise of foresight,
  judgment, seriousness of consideration, and depth of
  regard."--JOHN DEWEY.

  "Socialized education has four aims:

  First. That the pupil shall acquire control of tools and methods
          of social intercourse,--language, number, social forms and
          conventions.

  Second. That the pupil shall be favorably introduced to society
          through acquaintance with science, arts, literature, and
          through participation in present social life.

  Third. That the pupil shall be trained for an occupation.

  Fourth. That the motives of his conduct, his own individually
          appreciated and chosen ends, shall be intelligently
          socialized."--GEORGE ALBERT COE.

  "The unbeliever says, 'You can never construct a true society out
  of foolish, sick, selfish men and women as we know them to be.'
  But the believer sees already a better state beginning to exist in
  men transfigured by the power of education. And there is nothing
  that man will not overcome, amend, and convert until at last
  culture shall absorb, chaos itself."--EMERSON.

  "At the present time it may be that only the least effort is
  needed in order that truths already revealed to us should spread
  among hundreds, thousands, millions of men and women and a public
  opinion become established in conformity with the existing
  conscience and the entire social organization become transformed.
  It depends upon us to make the effort."--TOLSTOI.

=New Forms of Education Demanded by Modern Industry.=--When the power-driven machine ushered
in the new era in industry it lessened both the prestige and the dignity of the individual
worker in three particulars. First, it destroyed the apprentice system and hence reduced all
workers to a level in the eyes of the employer of labor and the general public. The apprentice
system had used for educational purposes the important period of adolescence between childhood
and youth. It had served with its ceremonial of entrance into the journeyman's right and public
recognition to give distinction to the skilled workman, and it had made a nexus of social relationship,
built upon craftsmanship, between those of the same and those of varying trades and occupations.
In the second place, the handicraft system had given a distinct political right and power to
skilled workmen. The craftsmen, and the burghers of cities who represented them, had to be
called upon by kings and nobles to give assent to wars and to furnish the sinews of war after
the Guilds had gained money-power. And there has as yet developed in modern government no substitute
for this older and more direct political appeal to individuals, through their work, to make
the vote alluring to the imagination of modern laborers. In the third place, the transition
from the feudal law of personal service from each class to each class above to the tax system
of modern times, whereby a citizen pays his dues to society in cash instead of in such personal
service, took place in the era of handicraft and was so bound up with the apprentice system
and the Guild organization that the connection between labor and public right and duty was
obvious and definite. We feel that it is an advance in political development when a man, and
now a woman, also, gains the franchise directly as a human being without regard to social station
or vocational approach to life. But when in any country the franchise is on simply human grounds
and the economic life is founded on class distinctions, and class distinctions as wide and
deep as those which modern industry makes between employer and employed in the great divisions
of manufacture and the provision of raw material for that manufacture, the human basis of the
body politic is blurred.

When the socially bad effects of the decay of the apprentice system were recognized, and the
need for some new forms of distinction between the skilled and the unskilled in labor was understood,
there was a movement to introduce into the school system a substitute for that older form of
craft-training. The first Manual Training High School marked that movement. The starting of
Trade Schools in connection with certain large industrial plants or groups of plants signally
demonstrated an effort to reinstate skill as a distinction of those who had acquired it. The
pioneer work of such educators as Dr. Felix Adler in the Ethical Culture School of New York,
at first called the Workingman's School, to introduce manual training and some definite use
of handicraft processes for educational purposes in the grade schools, and thus make a logical
connection with the Kindergarten, was a striking example of the new sense of need for a new
education to fit the new industrial situation. The Kindergarten itself, with its response to
the natural desire of childhood to make things and to do things and to act together in the
play rehearsal of activities of later life, was a testimony that the school was to be called
upon from henceforth to do what in the older time was done within the home and to do it better
than the home had succeeded in doing.

The connection between these movements in education and the family well-being must be clear
to all. Anything that lessens the dignity and power of the worker lessens the ability of the
average man to be a competent and successful father; just as anything that lessens the dignity
and power of the worker or makes him seem but a machine for others to use in building up industrial
organization lessens his influence in the political order. The importance to the family and
to the state of the elements of education which are aimed at reinstating standards of skill
and recognition of superior ability in the industrial field, by the school, can not, therefore,
be overestimated.

=Education a Social Process.=--These elements are attempts to socialize education. We say that
education is a process in the development of human personality. So it is, but it is also a
process by which individuals are fitted for serviceableness to the group life.

Education is not now for the first time "socialized" because we now theorize upon its social
function in a new way. Each group of people, in each phase of social relationship, aims to
express and to perpetuate, through the training of the oncoming generations, the ideals, the
customs, and the institutional forms deemed by them necessary and desirable. The educative
process is indeed a personal one, teacher acting upon pupil directly to secure individualized
results; but it has always been socially determined, both in purpose and in method, by the
group "mores" and the group needs.[17] The family has been called "the first and primitive
school," but hardly with accuracy; since, although the family is the first agency to begin
the educative process, what each family has demanded in loyalty and in activity from each child
has been determined, since the beginning of social organization, by what the group of which
that family was a part had accepted as the right and useful end of child-training. The limitations
of the family, therefore, in early as in later education, have been as marked as its powers,
as has been well shown by Doctor Todd in his book, The Primitive Family as an Educational Agency.

=The Three Learned Professions.=--When there were but three learned professions, law, medicine,
and theology, and the man of action, soldier or ruler, thought lightly of them all in comparison
with his own field of activity, the higher education could be limited to those of selected
classes. Now the social need is for trained talent in a far broader area, and the consequence
is that not only is the grade-school being made over but the professional goal of college and
university is being extended beyond the dreams of old pedagogues. When physical, economic,
and social sciences were born they gradually demanded a place in the educational system from
top to bottom of the line. The study disciplines they introduced, at first by apology of the
cultured, and later by open response to a social demand for leadership in a vastly wider range
of activity than was known when colleges first came to be, have attained a higher and higher
position until now the various degrees which aim to differentiate the type of social usefulness
for which the student is prepared are for the most part on a par with each other.

=New Calls for Trained Leadership.=--This pressure of the new subject-matter of education from
the top down, and the pressure from the bottom up of the new ideals in methods of training
of the child-mind, have made an educational ferment which has often given confusion of aim
and ineffectiveness of accomplishment, but both mean educational advance and educational advance
in obedience to new conceptions of common social need. All this movement in the educational
world has a direct and immediate influence upon family life. What was good in the old domestic
training for individual life-work we are trying to put into the school, and what is needed
for skill and leadership in the modern industrial order we are trying to put into the college
and university. This means not only that the family rule is less deferred to in the education
of even the youngest child, it also means that if we would save the family influence in education
we must bring the parents and teachers together in council and in united control as never before.
This is being attempted; the Mothers' Club and the Parent-Teacher Associations now in evidence
being impressive symbols of a larger social movement through books, pamphlets, magazines, reports,
and "Foundations," together with clubs of more general social type. The value of the Trade
Unions and of other special forms of organization of workers in the matter of securing rights
and opportunities in the labor world has been alluded to, but the definite educational value
of such class organizations must not be ignored. It is true that there is a loss of emphasis
upon skill and good workmanship in much of the modern Trade Union influence as compared with
the Guild ranking of older craft-unions, but there is a type of education for citizenship which,
with all its crudity and coarseness of ideal, inheres in the Trade Union as in few other organizations.
To emphasize class feeling, it is said, is to work against democracy. True, but to have a political
system in which one class is ignored, as "hands," not heads, is still more detrimental to democratic
government. The class consciousness of the worker was strong in the days when the Guilds had
political power, and it was a wholesome check upon the claim of divine right of kings and nobles
to rule. The class consciousness of wage-earners is needed in modern times and should have
its due representation in halls of legislation where it could meet naturally, in healthful
competition and debate, the class consciousness already there in the persons of employers of
labor and managers of legal interests of great corporations. The education that will finally
unite in better understood coöperation all class interests in public well-being is to be found
in such use of the school as will show how we are all bound together in industry, as in the
political body; in work as in voting power. That education which, with more or less intelligence
and with deeper or more shallow understanding, society is now working toward will make the
home life more secure as well as the state more united.

=The Special Education of Girls.=--The application of new educational ideals and methods to
the training of girls and young women is of first-rate importance in the matter of home relationship
to the school. And this is the case not only because there are far more women than men at work
in carrying out those ideals and methods in the schools but because if there is to be made
valid and useful, conscious and definite, union of school and home in one educational approach
to childhood it must be largely through the mothers and women-teachers that such union can
be effected. The reasons for this are too obvious to require explanation.

There are those who believe that there is no question of sex-differences in education, that
all that is needed is to open all educational opportunities to boys and girls alike and give
both precisely the same instruction. There are also those who still believe that some varying
elements of child-training and the instruction of youth should be retained and further developed
in the case of boys and girls. Some basic facts must be in mind when we attempt to answer the
question, Shall we try for somewhat divergent schooling for the two sexes?

First of all, we must remember that we have inherited the fruits of a long race-experience
in which men and women were for the most part so separated from, each other in functioning
that the education of boys and girls was made wholly unlike after sex-differentiation began,
and sometimes, as in Sparta, before that period. The difference in ideal and in method of training
was not, as some have said, that "boys were trained for human and socialized work" and "girls
were fitted for personal and generally menial service alone." Both were trained for personal
character and for social ends. The men were tied to the land, and the political order, and
the family responsibility for parenthood, and some distinct personal service in behalf of the
group life, as were the women. The difference, the tremendous difference, was this: that the
service demanded of men, whatever their part or lot might be, was early seen to require a definite
schooling for some particular vocation, demanding some measure of intellectual concentration
and technical skill; while the service demanded of women was supposed to be of a nature requiring
only general apprenticeship within the family life. The specialization of labor, as is often
shown, took from that family apprenticeship of women, one by one, its vocational elements of
manual work until the housemother seemed to need only that general ability which can quickly
and wisely use the fruits of others' expert knowledge and technical training. It as surely
added for men, in every division of vocational alignment, an increasing differentiation of
training and of labor. The reaction upon the educative process of this specialization and organization
of industrial and institutional life has been distinct and far-reaching. The girls were left
to the experiential apprenticeship of the family, since they were not counted as citizens.
Even the ancient education of boys was in comparison formal and definite, having at its core
the group loyalties which united them in patriotic devotion to "the collectivity that owned
them all." When, again, the peaceful industries which women had started in their primitive
Jack-at-all-trades economic service to the family and clan life needed organization into separate
callings of agriculture manufacture and commerce, and primitive means of transportation had
to be perfected for interchange of products between nation and nation, women were again left
out of control of the processes which man's organizing genius set in motion. Hence, neither
political nor industrial changes in the social order gave to popular thought any conception
of the need for sending girls to school. In point of fact, as we need often to be reminded,
the fine talk about an educated common people referred for the most part to boys alone until
near the middle of the nineteenth century. All that women needed to know it was believed "came
by nature." Much of it did come by imitation and unconscious absorption, aided by the occasional
better training of exceptionally able and fortunate women; but the general illiteracy of women
was both a personal handicap and a social poverty. It is not true, however, as some have said,
that women have been "left out of the human race" and have had to "break in" to man's more
highly organized life in order to taste civilization. Men and women have stood too close in
affection, girls too often "took after their fathers," the family, even under the despotic
rule of men, bound all other social institutions to itself too vitally for the sexes to be
wholly separated in thought and activity. Even when most women had to make a cross instead
of signing their names on official documents and could not have passed the fourth-grade examinations
of a modern school, they often became truly cultured and by reason of the very demands of family
and group life upon them. The reason most women were denied formal school training so long
after such denial became actively injurious to the family and group life was because the popular
conviction still held that the most useful service which women could render the state did not
require, would even find inimical to its best exercise, the kind of schooling which had been
developed to fit boys for "a man's part in the world."

=Formal School Training of Women New.=--When the principle of democracy began to work in women's
natures with an irrepressible yeast of revolt against longer denial of opportunity for individual
achievement, and the vitally necessary and too-long-delayed "woman's rights movement" was born,
its first pressure was against the closed doors of the "man-made" school. Enlightened women
now demanded equal chance with men for preparation for vocations. The school they sought to
enter was inherited from a past in which not only sex lines but class lines held the opportunities
of higher education for a small clique. The ancient college and university did indeed lead
towards vocations, but only the three "learned professions" and general training for commanding
leadership in state and industrial affairs. When physical, economic, and social sciences were
born the study disciplines they introduced into higher education appeared in answer to an imperious
social demand that leadership should be provided in a vastly more varied range than the older
civilization required. At first the leaders in the higher education of women, like all nouveaux
riche, showed determination to prove themselves adept in the traditions of the scholastic world
into which they had so recently entered. Classic curricula were strictly adhered to and all
"practical" courses viewed with open distrust except those leading to the inherited professions,
and to teaching, as these were pushed upward toward college professorships. Happily, however,
almost coincident with the entrance of women into larger educational opportunity came the broadening
of that educational opportunity itself to which reference has been made; and the marvelous
growth of the State Universities in the United States rapidly increased both the more varied
vocational stimuli and the wider preparation for leadership now opening in our country for
women as for men.

=New Training for Social Service.=--Two movements have resulted from the widening of the field
of higher education, movements not yet recognized at their full social value, but already showing
immense influence both upon the vocational alignment of trained women and upon the courses
of study in colleges and universities. These two movements are, first, so to improve the social
environment as to make average normal life more easily and generally accessible to the requirements
for human well-being; and, secondly, the movement to put the social treatment, ameliorative
and preventive, of abnormal or undeveloped life, under scientific direction. When it was discovered
that to lose in death one baby out of every three born, to prematurely age or kill mothers
in a hopeless endeavor to make good that waste, to leave the majority of the human race the
helpless prey of preventable disease, poverty, feeble-mindedness, vice, and crime, was to show
lack of rational social consciousness and effective social control, then it speedily became
a recognized social duty to provide schools, both higher and lower in grade, which might do
something to lessen ignorance and increase knowledge in the practical arts of race culture
and of social organization for common human welfare. This conviction led on one side to the
introduction of courses of study in universities, colleges, normal, high, and even some elementary
schools, which had bearing upon management of sanitation, food supply, housing, street control,
recreation, economic reform, social engineering in politics, and kindred agencies for social
betterment. It led on the other side to the attempt to make the office of the philanthropist
a vocation, for which definite training and standardized compensation must be provided. So
rapidly have these two elements of applied social science invaded the vocational field that
to-day, outside of general and special teaching, they draw the majority of women seeking professional
careers into work directly leading to social and personal betterment. A few women became lawyers,
doctors, ministers, and now aspire to political leadership; but for the most part women are
true to their sex-heritage now that they have a chance to choose and fit for their work. The
nurture of child-life, the moral safeguarding of youth, the care of the aged, the weak, the
wayward, and the undeveloped--these, which have been their special tasks since society began
to be rational and humane, are still their main business in the more complex situations of
modern life.

=Departments of Household Economics in Colleges.=--When the departments of household economics
were added to college courses they were hailed on one side as a needed attempt to "make the
higher education fit women for wifehood and motherhood;" and on the other side they were opposed
as a base concession to conservative views of woman's position, and as leading toward a lowering
of standards in women's higher education. They were, and are, neither of these. The college
courses in subjects related to the scientific improvement of human beings and their environment
are courses leading toward new vocational specialties, which the newly outlined science of
race-culture demands. Women who excel in these specialties do so as paid functionaries and
are oftener unmarried than married. Nor are these studies limited to feminine students, although
far more women than men choose them. The interrelation of the present social order by which
a milk or a water supply has to do with "big business" and with law, and "a garbage can is
a metal utensil entirely surrounded by politics," requires some knowledge of these things on
the part of men; especially if they are to be "heckled" in political campaigns by women voters.
There are, to be sure, now outlined school training "departments of homemaking" intended to
help individual women in their work in private homes, but such departments are generally of
the nature of "extension courses." Regular college courses, especially those of four years
and leading to a special degree, in household economics, as in other groups of studies, lead
directly toward a vocational career, standardized and salaried, related to general social organization,
and subject to the "factory" tendencies of the modern industrial order. Students in such courses,
generally speaking, graduate either to teach household arts in schools and extension work,
or to take positions as expert dietitians, managers of hospitals and other public institutions,
directors of laundries and restaurants, as trained nurses, assistants or directors in chemical
laboratories, architects, interior decorators, landscape gardeners, and what not. All these
specialties are essential to social progress, and all are linked to family life in general,
but none of them is particularly related to any one family group of one father, one mother,
and their children. They, therefore, while tending to make family life in general far more
successful than of old, fit no woman surely for wifehood and motherhood; and they cannot do
so unless omniscient social wisdom can tell in advance what girls will marry and have children
and social control becomes despotic enough to oblige such girls to take these courses in preference
to any others; or unless society returns to its old drastic compulsion for all to marry and
bear active part in the race-life as parents.

=Society Now Based upon Man's Economic Leadership.=--Any study of the needs of the family in
relation to the school, especially in relation to the tax-supported, free, and compulsory educational
system, must take account of two outstanding facts: namely, first, that the whole arrangement
of society as we have inherited its condition is based upon the economic leadership of the
husband and father in the home partnership. This continues to be the rule even in social strata
where the sense of justice gives both parties a common purse and where finest quality of affection
and of comradeship makes it a negligible matter which one makes the larger contribution to
the united treasury.

=Women Socially Drafted for Motherhood.=--The second fact which must have its recognition in
any study of education in relation to the family, is that no married woman is exempt from all
demands of motherhood unless some "selective draft," more delicate in its evaluation than any
we have yet evolved, shall indicate her right to exemption, and that if marriage is to continue
on anything like its present basis commonplace women cannot have all its advantages without
paying some adequate price.

=Father-office and Mother-office Still Differ.=--We are now in the midst of a social order
in which the father-office and the mother-office do differ essentially in their requirements
in the vast majority of families. The father-office leads directly toward specialization and
achievement in some one calling. To be a good father is, in ordinary family conditions, not
so much to give constant personal attention to his children as to do something well which the
world wants done and will pay for and by which he may maintain and improve the economic and
social standing of his family. To "give hostages to fortune in wife and child" may, indeed
often does, hamper a man's idealistic relation to his vocation and oblige him to work for money
when he wants to work for fame or for higher usefulness, but it serves almost always to keep
him steady to his job. For the average mother this is not the case. Where there is a family
of children more than large enough to make good the parent's share in life's ongoing stream,
or where physical, mental, or moral peculiarities demand special attention to one child or
more, or where aged, delicate, or incompetent members of the family circle call for special
consideration, or where the environment does not provide, or the income cannot pay for elaborate
aids to domestic comfort from without, the average conscientious housemother must give the
best of strength and the most of time in the service of the private family for many years of
life. That is to say, getting a group of children up to adult independence and saving the community
most of the intimate duties of care of the aged and of the weak, while it calls upon the man-head
of the family for greater activity in his special line, calls upon the woman-head of the family
for a general and personal service as a primary duty. This puts any vocational specialty she
has chosen in a secondary place while the family obligation is most pressing. The result of
this obvious fact is that the average woman does still have a double choice to make when marriage
offers; a choice for or against the man, and a choice for or against her vocation. In proportion
as women are highly educated or industrially trained they have been pressed toward some one
calling for which they can be definitely prepared and in which they may hope to rise in personal
achievement and in financial compensation. On the other hand, marriage and motherhood appeal
to the deepest instincts of human nature; and if the man seems worth it a woman will generally
risk vocational impediment and awkwardness of economic adjustment for the sake of a congenial
mate and children of her own.

=Should the Education of Girls Include Special Attention to Family Claims?=--These facts indicate
that social prudence must at least ask the question, Should not the education of girls include
some distinct recognition of special problems to be met, often in acute experience of contrary
currents of personal desire and social pressure, in the lives of young women? As has been shown
in other connection what we are witnessing now in domestic life is the passing of the servant
caste, of the ordinary "hired girl" and of the unpaid family drudge; not the eclipse of the
housemother or the waning of the homemaker's power or charm. In this household change and in
the demand that goes with it upon any woman who would have or make a home, and with clear understanding
of the new responsibilities which the new freedom of women place upon them, certain fundamental
principles should be held firmly in mind as we deal with special problems of adjustment created
by new social situations. First of all, let us admit, and never cease to emphasize the fact,
that the social education of women demands from now on the most scrupulous regard for the training
of every normal girl for self-support. This cannot be too much emphasized. This is the only
sure foundation for socially helpful sex-relationship and for that democratization of the family
without which social progress is now impossible. The social education of women in general demands,
also, the cultivation of domestic tastes and of some measure of household technic, not as a
concession to the past, but as a safeguard of the future, in such fashion that the call to
personal service of the family life may recall familiar and pleasant educational activities.
These educational activities should precede those which tend directly toward vocational preparation
for self-support. This point, too, is vital. The age when almost all little girls like to do
things which concern the family comfort is from the eighth to the fourteenth year, a period
too young for proper vocational drill. Then, when they are most likely to be ordered out of
the kitchen if there is a paid cook to give the order, and most likely to be thought "in the
way" if trying to help in domestic process of any sort, is the period of all others when to
"learn by doing" what they are interested in will give them a background capable of easy adjustment
to the later demands of family life. The training of boys of the same ages has an analogue
in farming and handy use of common tools; and in the "work, play, and study school" boys and
girls learn much together which fit both for mutual aid in the private family. The new education
of the grade schools, therefore, is coming to the rescue of the housemother's task, as the
high school and college have come to the aid of those who would provide vocational careers
for women. They may meet in helpful alliance just as soon as a few social principles, which
can make a bridge between them, are outlined and accepted.

=Adjustment of Family Service and Vocational Work.=--First, most women should allow for marriage
and maternity first place for the years socially required. Second, women cannot afford to lose
entirely out of their married lives vocational discipline, by the use of leisure time left
them by new easing of household service, even in odd jobs of unpaid "social work," as is now
so much the custom. The very multiplicity and variety of ancient crafts practised in the home
make some one activity, held to rules of specialization, essential to the housemother's development.
The chosen vocation retained as an avocation, during the housemother's active service, must
not, however, be a chief dependence for either her own or the family support lest the family
or herself suffer. It must be in the nature of a leasehold upon her chosen career to be retaken
for full occupancy as soon as the children are out of hand and she has begun to feel the call
of empty hours to the old familiar task. This is not an impractical plan, as many women are
proving by experience. And as has been previously demonstrated, society in the past has wasted
the work-power of women past the childbearing age in more ruthless and stupid prodigality than
any other of its treasures. Third, as has been before indicated, married women with young children
must learn to combine in "team work," as they have never yet done, and to make engagements
by two's or three's for the work one unmarried woman may take alone. This is especially called
for in the great social task of teaching, "woman's organic office in the world," as Emerson
called it. The evils charged against a "feminized school," where they really exist, are those
due not so much to the sex of the grade-teachers as to the celibate condition in the "permanent
supply" and to the too rapidly changing personnel of those who marry. The same suggested team
work would operate well in all the higher professions; and the success of "continuation schools"
proves that half-time and third-time labor schedules are perfectly feasible in manual work.
The fourth social principle to be accepted in the interest of women and the family is one little
perceived at the present time: namely, that which marks the limitations of social usefulness
in the specialization of labor itself.

=Dangers of Specialization in Professional Work.=--We are beginning to see that this process
may be carried so far that a shallow and a cheap person may so fill the exacting and narrow
routine of a specialty of manual work or professional service as to check ambition and power
to achieve a full and rich personality. Last of all, the social principle, by which the claims
of personality and the demands of social solidarity (now so entangled in friction) may work
smoothly to individual and social well-being, the principle yet to be clearly outlined and
helpfully applied, should receive interpretation and guidance through the race-experience of
women. For that service the social education of women must be lifted to a far higher plane
of intellectual and ethical culture. Deeper than all the problems which the booming of the
guns of this world war has forced upon the dullest social consciousness is the question, How
may the individual conscience and personal ideal of the spiritual élite be harmonized with,
not destroyed by, the levelling process of democracy? Saints and sages have always marked out
the pathway of the future. How can they still dower a common life pressed insistently toward
uniformity of action? May it not be that human beings of the mother-sex who have paid and still
must pay a price, one by one, for each single life, and who have at the same time always been
held and still must be held as supreme upbuilders of the social fabric, shall lead the race
toward the solution of this most spiritual problem of democracy? It is not, however, solely
to make women better fitted for a dual rôle in social order and social progress that we are
socializing education: men also must be better fitted to the tasks of social serviceableness
within as truly as without the family. No one has doubted the claim of society upon man to
be a useful worker and a competent manager of affairs in the world. Until lately, however,
few have seen that, as the "Declaration of Eights and Duties" set forth in 1795 by those who
willed the freedom of France, "No one is a good citizen if he is not a good son, a good father,
a good brother, a good friend, a good husband." It has been enough for a man to be able to
achieve something of value; his personal character has not been, held of such great moment
throughout the ages of the past.

Now we are beginning to demand that men be good in the sense they have long demanded that women
shall be, and that women shall be strong in what they do as well as in what they are. This
new demand strikes at the roots of what has been called the "social evil," but which is the
most unsocial of all the pathological conditions of modern society.

=The New Training in Sex-education.=--The need to have the right sort of fathers as well as
fit mothers requires a new training in lines of sex-education. One of the most perplexing of
all educational problems is how to give the needed training in this line in the best and most
effective way.

To the propositions thus clearly stated all thoughtful students of family needs in education
will give assent. This is not the place for specific treatment of prostitution and its effect
upon the home, nor is it the place for a detailed statement of methods of sex-education and
of social hygiene now advocated and beginning to show encouraging results in use. The simple
statement must be made that if, as Spencer has said, one test of education is its ability to
make men good husbands and fathers, the element of sex-education must not be omitted from the
educative process. How or where the necessary information and stimulus to truly social conduct
may or should be given is matter for another statement.

=Heroes Held Up for Admiration.=--One point, usually wholly ignored, must have some mention
here, and that is the effect upon the minds of children and youth of types of social order
that are taken for granted as proper and right in the setting of heroes and even of heroines
commended to their example. We have taken our heroes from the past. That is natural. It requires
an atmosphere of distance to render clear in outline the lives of the great and good. It may
be that some prophets are held at just value by those with whom they live; it is almost never
that great prophets are seen at their full stature, by the common apprehension, in the time
of which they are a part. This makes us offer as stimulant to the ethical imagination, and
sometimes as definite incitements to imitation, men and women whose social surroundings were
quite other than those we are now striving to secure. How seldom is the teacher able to make
the distinctions in social judgment required for full understanding of the character without
spoiling the personal influence of the hero extolled. This is particularly true in the use
of much Biblical material in Sunday School and in the unexplained classic references to the
great and good. One wonders what children are thinking about, children who read in the daily
papers long and spectacular accounts of trials for bigamy or adultery, when the worthies of
the Old Testament are spoken of and their two or several wives taken as a matter of course
in the lesson! One wonders what is the meaning of justness or kindness to the "servant" conveyed
to the child in commandments which link together a man's ox and his ass, his laborer and his
wife! The fact is that education has a narrow and perilous path to travel in moral lessons
of every sort, a path between a dull and critical analysis of differences in moral standards
and moral practice in the ages from which we have come and a wholesale commendation of people
who would be haled before our modern courts for disobedience to laws were they to reappear
upon our streets. The need for stimulation of the ethical imagination is so great, however,
that we must dare this perilous path and master its difficulties. Perhaps no one has been able
to do this more effectively than Mr. Gould, of the Moral Education Committee of England, who
has used the story method with consummate tact in building up from the lower motive and the
more ancient condition a series of pictures of human greatness, which end always on some summit
of personal devotion in universal conditions to universal laws of right.[18] His method leaves
the pupil in a glow of admiration of excellence without dulling his perception of realities
of every-day life in his own time and place.

However difficult, we must try by some method to make youth realize what is excellent in those
who have lived far enough in the past to inspire reverence and yet keep some connection between
those heroes and sages of the older times and the march of human life upward and onward. Especially
is this the case in all treatment of the family relation. We need not banish Chaucer's "Griselda"
from the collections of poems worthy to live and to be read, but at least we should insert
some companion pieces which show wifely fidelity in a more modern form. We may well ask the
child's admiration of the craftsman's passion for achievement in "Palissey the Potter," but
there might be ethical significance in pointing out that nowadays we sometimes question the
right of a man to sacrifice to his art not only himself but his wife, his children, and all
related to him. The fact is that although we cannot make use of any cumbersome scheme of historic
outlines of social progress nor of any learned history of matrimonial institutions, we must
somehow learn to permeate our teaching of history and of literature and our exaltation of examples
of human greatness of character with the spirit of those who believe that humanity is learning,
and can know how to manage social affairs better and better as the years of life-experience
go on.[19]

=Moral Training at the Heart of Education.=--The right and helpful relation of the school to
the family, then, is one that must first of all place moral character, the power to live a
good and useful life in all social relations, at the centre. And it is one also that takes
account particularly of the development of the family order and of what we must save and of
what we may throw away in that order, if we would have a stable inner circle of human rights
and duties as a pattern for all relationship in the industrial order and in the state.

=Drill to Avert Economic Tragedies.=--In view also of the danger of economic tragedies that
affect the family,--dangers of unemployment of the father by reason of bad times beyond his
control, of his disablement by industrial accident, of his too-early impairment of strength
by reason of industrial misuse of his powers in ways he can not prevent,--it may be that education
for every boy should include, while he is still under the legal wage-earning age, efficient
drill in the simpler arts of agriculture. He who can get from the land the raw material for
family comfort is alone, it would seem, able to meet all industrial catastrophes without alarm.
In this country, at least, such a man, whatever his failure or misfortune in professional,
in clerical, or in manual labor, may make good his father-office in basic essentials of family
support. All that has been said about the need of mixing vocational training with preparation
for home-making in the case of girls may be said with almost as much, force about the need
of giving the average man an economic refuge in case of vocational disaster in the ability
to work the land to meet essential family need. This is beginning to be understood as never
before. The newest education of all, as has been said, is intent upon providing for girls and
boys alike this training for economic safety in some expert use of land for self-support as
well as for retranslation of older work interests. In these "schools of tomorrow" the boys
as well as the girls, while still very young, are being trained to cook and to do necessary
things for household comfort. This is not subversive of inherited divisions of labor in the
home. This teaching only adds to the economic security of both sexes and may make the men of
the future able to exist comfortably without so much personal service from their womenfolk,
and, above all, may make the home a more perfectly coöperative centre of our social order.

=A Graduated Scale of Virtues.=--In the French Categories of "Moral and Civil Instructions,"
first outlined in 1882 and perfected and applied in 1900, the children of the Public Schools
of that country have their attention called first to the duties related to "Home and Family,"
going on from that topic to "Companionship, The School, Social Life, Animal Life, Self-respect,
Work, Leisure and Pleasure, Nature, Art, Citizenship and Nationality," and ending with a study
of the "Past and Future." The latter topic indicates an intent to give in some fashion the
idea of human progress and something of its outstanding points of interest and value. Other
moral codes aim at some sublimation of history and literature as a finish to courses in ethical
instruction. It is for the student of social progress to insist that such study of the past,
linked to the study of the present and to some hopeful outline of the future, be not used merely
as a capstone but shall be woven in, as warp and woof of all education, as it touches every
side of life.

=Types of Education.=--Dr. Lester Ward, in his Dynamic Sociology, lists the various types of
education we must cherish and realize in the common life as follows:

  "The Education of Experience;
  The Education of Discipline;
  The Education of Culture;
  The Education of Research;
  The Education of Information."

To this list, with which most educators would be in agreement, the believers in the "New Education"
might add the Education of Development of Personality.

Experience, discipline, culture, research, and information are, however, the great means by
which the personality absorbs the social inheritance and thus finds its own place in the social
whole. The early initiation by the family to all these means of personal development is not
yet exhausted either in function or in social usefulness. The family still begins the socializing
process.

QUESTIONS ON THE FAMILY AND THE SCHOOL

  1. In child-training, should the general aim be to give as much
     as possible of that training in the home or as much as
     possible in the school? or what is a wise and efficient
     balance between family and society influence in education?

  2. Given a necessity in character-development for drill in
     obedience, stimulus toward self-development, capacity for
     self-control and for helpful association with others in the
     interest of the commonweal, what part, if any, can the home
     play which the school cannot?

  3. What is the duty of citizens in respect to tax-supported and
     compulsory education and how can that duty be effectively done
     in city and country life?

  4. How can educational systems be made to work for the better
     coördination of family life among the newly arrived immigrants?

  5. Outline, in general suggestion, an educational program for boys
     and for girls which would be likely to directly aid the family
     in attaining stability and success among all classes, having
     regard to aim, subject-matter, methods of character-development
     and form of social provision and control in the school.

FOOTNOTES:

[17] See Democracy and Education, by John Dewey: "Because of death of individuals, life has
to perpetuate itself by transmission, by communication; must be social in character."

[18] See The Children's Book of Moral Lessons, published by Watts and Co., London.

[19] See Principles of Sociology with Educational Applications, by Frederick R. Clow, a valuable
and suggestive book for the general reader.

CHAPTER XV

THE FATHER AND THE MOTHER STATE

  "I should like to point out by what principles of action we rose
  to power and under what institutions and through what manner of
  life we became great.
                    From the oration of Pericles, 450 B.C.,
                          as reported by Thucydides.

  "Statesmen work in the dark until the idea of right towers above
  expediency or wealth. The Spirit of Society, not any outward
  institution, is the mighty power by which the hard lot of man is
  to be ameliorated.

  "Every line of history inspires a confidence that things mend.
  This is the moral of all we learn; it warrants Hope, the prolific
  mother of all reforms. Our part is plainly not to block
  improvement or to sit until we are stone but to watch the uprise
  of progressive mornings and to conspire with the new work of new
  days."--EMERSON.

  "Nations are the citizens of humanity as individuals are the
  citizens of the nation. As any individual should strive to promote
  the power and prosperity of his nation through the exercise of his
  special function, so should every nation in performing its special
  mission perform its part in promoting the prosperity and
  progressive advance of humanity."--MAZZINI.

    "Our country hath a gospel of her own
    To preach and practise before all the world,--
    The freedom and divinity of man,
    The glorious claims of human brotherhood."
                    --LOWELL.

=The Socialization of the Modern State.=--In a previous book before mentioned[20] and in many
special articles published elsewhere, the idea has been stressed that society is now witnessing
a remarkable coalescence of two ethical movements which are of special significance in the
new political equality of men and women. These two movements are, first, the call for the application
to women of the principles embodied in our national Bill of Rights; and, second, the introduction
of what is called social welfare work into governmental provisions and administration. The
first marked the reaction of women, belated but strong, and at last successful in realization
of purpose, to the eighteenth Century demand for the recognition of human rights regardless
of color, sex, or previous condition of servitude. The second was a reaction of social sympathy
and a growing sense of social responsibility for the better development of the common life.
These two movements so worked together that as women marched toward the citadel of political
power and responsibility, political action became more and more permeated by forms of social
interest in which women were already alert, and by forms of social activity in which women
were already proficient. This is particularly noticeable in the United States. For example,
in our country we have changed the common point of view and the general governmental approach
to individual and private life in the following important particulars:

  1. Health--public and private, in matters of prevention of
     disease and in care of the sick and the convalescent.

  2. Education--in respect to all ages and to all peculiar needs of
     special training.

  3. Philanthropy, or the social care of the dependent, the
     poverty-bound, the defective, and the juvenile delinquent.

  4. Penology, or the laws and their administration which deal with
     crime and criminals and with both the victims of and the
     panderers to vice.

  5. Recreation and all manner of publicly provided opportunity for
     helpful use of leisure time.

  6. Conservation of natural resources in the interest of common
     wealth.

  7. Checks upon economic exploitation by the greedy and strong of
     the young, the weak, and the ignorant.

  8. Checks upon those commercialized forms of recreation which tend
     to despoil childhood and youth of innocence and refinement.

  9. Official standardizing of ways of living found to be conducive
     to physical, mental, and moral well-being, and social aids
     toward vocational training and guidance.

  10. The union of Federal with State and Local efforts for the
     general welfare.

=The Interest and Work of Women in This Process of Political Change.=--In every one of these
new forms of approach to individual life by the general public through law, tax-supported opportunity,
or special grant of official aid, women have played a distinct and a large part. When, therefore,
women entered formally into the body politic of these United States, they entered into a place
of power already familiar to them in many of its activities. Indeed, they had helped to outline
and to make effective many of those activities and came into a new relation to them only by
virtue of a recognized access of control over their administration. When government was merely
a restraining or a military power over individual life, there might be to many minds an incongruity
in women assuming voter's privileges and duties. When government became a means for conserving
and nurturing and developing individual life, mothers, at least, could be easily seen to have
proper part in its functions.

=Health a Social Enterprise.=--To briefly rehearse this list of political activities is to
show marked changes in social ideals. We have entered upon a crusade against preventable disease
and for the better physical development of all citizens and potential citizens. This crusade
now makes the official Boards of Health, the hospital and medical service, the nurse's vocation,
and the lay volunteer support of all these, the outstanding features of our community life.
Epidemics used to be considered visitations of an avenging Providence for the people's sins.
So they are in essence and in modern translation of old ideas, a punishment by Nature for broken
laws; experiences to be ashamed of now that we know how to prevent them. Deaths of babies,
once mysterious dispensations of Infinite power, have come to mean indictments of community
and family for failure to furnish right conditions for infant life. Deaths of mothers in childbirth,
leaving older children without suitable protection and care, once thought events to which to
be resigned, however sad and pitiable, are now seen to be preventable calamities for which
society is to blame. Avoidable cripplement and invalidism of workmen, once considered either
their own fault or unexplained misfortune, are now listed as cause for receipt of sickness
and accident benefits under Workmen's Compensation Laws. Premature old age, due to overwork
and undernourishment, is on its way to be proceeded against as a record of social neglect.
All waste of life's vigor and happiness which is indicated by lower levels of health and strength
in any class or age than can be secured by the more favored is from now on recorded as social
failure and social fault. Hence, the state and all manner of private agencies are at work to
make physical standards higher and physical conditions better for all. When we remember that
the pioneer worker in organization of Boards of Public Health and the founder of the American
Public Health Association, Dr. Stephen Smith, has just passed away after reaching the hundred
year mark of life's usefulness, we can readily see how rapid has been the growth in scientific
attention to health and social agencies for its advance.

=General and Vocational Training for All.=--In education we have not accomplished all that
the leaders in that field outlined for us two generations ago, but there is a movement all
along the line to make it possible for every person to have at least a fair start toward education
in the compulsory free school; and for adults, younger or older, to make up for early deficiencies
by constantly increasing later opportunities of special and of general training in the things
every citizen should know. Allusion to new specialties of varied educational facilities has
before been made.

No one can doubt that as teachers and helpers to teachers, as members of educational societies,
and as acting on official boards by appointment, women have been long serving in the ranks
and needed the ballot only to make their function more inclusive and more commanding in directive
power. When we remember that it is only since 1837, when Horace Mann published the first Report
of a State Board of Education and began his great work for the Common School of his country,
that we have had even a distinct social goal in this great field of endeavor we cannot be pessimistic
about future accomplishment. When that educational leader declared in response to those who
remonstrated with him for turning aside from the usual and, for him, brilliant opportunities
of the law, "The next generation is to be my client," he started a new profession, and the
present effort in education is but the widening of that social furrow. When we recall that
Mary Lyon, in opening Mt. Holyoke Seminary for Girls in that same year of 1837, offered the
first opportunity to girls of limited means of what could be called higher education, we can
better realize how rapid has been the movement to fit women for educational service. We, at
least, now have a clearer aim in education and are at liberty to use fit men and fit women
alike for its realization. The one great contribution of later times is the determination to
share with all the opportunities once held sacred to a select few.

=Women's Work in Philanthropy.=--In philanthropy there has been so great a transformation both
in ideal and in method that it amounts to a change in the centre of gravity. Charity once had
for its aim the easing of unbearable misery, the giving of alms to relieve the starving, and
personal aid of all sorts to those who were not expected to be lifted out of the category of
the poor, those who must be always helped, but should be helped in a spirit of kindness. Now
we have the command for permanent care for the helpless where they will not handicap the normal.
We have the varied agencies for preventing delinquency in youth and many a new type of moral
rehabilitation for all who have stepped but a short distance out of the ordered path of life.
We have the ideal of every defective child in permanent custodial homes, every insane person
cared for with humanity and trained intelligence, every dependent child readjusted to family
life by adoption or trained happily and usefully in residential school, every aged person protected
from want and misery in public or private homes, every widowed mother helped to take care of
her own children, and every sick person aided by hospital and clinic and visiting nurse and
convalescent home in readjustment to normal activity. Finally, we have boldly replaced the
motto, "Relieve Poverty," by the new slogan, "Abolish Poverty," and we are impatient with ourselves
and with social arrangements if any considerable number of our fellow-beings are obliged without
fault of theirs to receive material relief. In all this, what a part has been played by women!
Dorothea Dix revolutionized the care of the insane in the United States. Louisa Lee Schuyler
organized and for fifty years energized and directed the work of the New York State Charities
Aid Association which made over into humane and intelligent social care-taking the inherited
institutions of a more ignorant and indifferent time. The first woman to serve on the State
Board of Charities in New York, Josephine Shaw Lowell, whose motherhood in the family and the
state knew no bounds and whose statesmanship comprehended every social relation, is not the
last to so serve. "The lady with the lamp," Florence Nightingale, who pioneered in trained
nursing has had many a follower in this as in other countries. The annals of all charitable
agencies show that at every step, whether recognized as responsible members of the body politic
or not, women have done the work in large and efficient measure when the state took over a
new job of life-saving and of life-nourishment.

In the realm of penology we have moved far from the old private prison into which the noble
could cast his enemy and no one question his acts. We have moved far from the early prison
which was easily neglected in all sanitary as in all moral conditions, since it was then only
a stopping place, often for a short time only, on the way from court condemnation to hanging
or mutilation, flogging or exile. When the prison became a place for longer sojourn, and sentence
to it became in itself a legal punishment, humane men and women began to feel the importance
of knowing what went on in the places set aside for offenders against the law, and Howard and
others set the tendency toward a more humane and reasonable treatment of criminals. We now
are at work finding out who are real criminals and who are accidentally caught in the meshes
of hurtful circumstances, who among the offenders against the law are mentally responsible,
and who are but children of adult bodily size, and what to do for and with the intentional
enemy of social order. We have not yet learned to apply the ideals we have gained in wise and
effective treatment of the small minority of men, and far smaller minority of women, who cannot
or will not walk the safe and well-outlined road of the law-abiding, but we have some concepts
that promise to guide us in this particular and the new Penology is born. Men and women alike
are working out details of direction and shouldering the heavy social work demanded. The thing
that is most conspicuous in Penology is the new attitude of courts of law, of judges and even
of juries. This is an attitude of humane inquiry into causes of moral breakdown, and humane
dealing with criminals as of right entitled to a fair chance. Surely this is a fatherly attitude
taking the place of old punitive ideas.

=Culture Aids to the Common Life.=--When we come to the new work of making the streets safer
for the spirit of youth, and the life of all more protected and happy by recreative measures
standardized for personal uplift, we are distinctly in the area of parental functions of the
modern state. It takes fatherly men and motherly women to run the public playground, and to
make the parks, the museums, the settlement clubs and classes, and the children's rooms in
public libraries what we now will that they shall be,--the centres of eager interest and the
nursery of character development. The mention of the free public library suggests what is probably
the most potent of all the higher social influences in our American life. In the large city
and in the small town alike, and even in remote rural districts served by the Loan Libraries,
the opportunity to find what will feed the mind and lead toward the delight of the printed
page is one that has meant more to more people who were aspiring and able to become leaders
in any sphere of life than has any other opportunity; perhaps than even the public school after
the main essentials of early grade teaching have been gained.

To sit in a public library and watch the eager interest of each newcomer, to see the patience,
the understanding, the sympathetic attitude and the earnest effort to be of utmost service
which the librarian almost invariably shows, and to see the absorbed attention of the readers
in what they have been assisted in selecting, is to bless the generosity and public spirit
of every one who has made the public library so common a blessing. Not all books are equally
helpful, not all give equal pleasure, it is true, but when one gets a book with a message in
it for him, what a joy!

One often thinks of the lovely song of Emily Dickinson when sitting thus in a public library:

    "He ate and drank the precious words,
    His spirit grew robust;
    He knew no more that he was poor
    Or that his frame was dust.
    He danced along the dingy ways
    And this bequest of wings
    Was but a book. What liberty
    A loosened spirit brings!"

=Many Languages in One Country.=--In this connection must be noted the effort of many to limit
this "bequest" to the language of the country. In another connection we have noted the difficulty
that inheres in having many differing tongues in one community, the difficulty of reaching
a common ideal and method of living when language is a barrier and not an aid to companionship.
This barrier of language to the foreign-born is often cited as a reason why the immigrant is
handicapped. It is also a reason why social efforts and religious influences often fail of
success and why so many native-born Americans fail to understand the newer Americans. If, as
many prophesy, the English language becomes the standard tongue for business and diplomacy
and literature, all the best products of every nation being made available by translation,
at least, for those speaking English, it can become that ruling tongue only by slow degrees.
Meanwhile, the chasm between citizens of a common country made by differing languages may be
bridged by far greater effort on the part of older Americans gifted in the use of foreign tongues.
We see women by the hundreds flocking to Europe and the East to "get local color" and perfect
themselves in foreign languages, who might find at their own doors, among those illiterate
in English, but with a wealth of knowledge of their own native literature and speech, men and
women who would be able, if rightly approached, to exchange national values both in literature
and history to mutual advantage. The need of adult education on the part of the foreign-born
is not always a need to be met by condescending from above to those of low intellectual estate.
It is often a mere requirement to master another form of speech by those, already linguists,
or at least in possession of a broader use of language than is the average citizen of the United
States. The ways of social helping in this line are many and of the highest political importance.
The variety of languages spoken in the United States, however, is not so serious an obstacle
to the intercommunication of our population for political information and in organization for
common ends of the public good as is the shameful condition of illiteracy among the electorate.
The foreign-language publications in the United States numbered, in 1914, 1404, of which 160
were dailies, with total circulation per issue of 2,598,827, and 868 weeklies with a total
circulation per issue of 4,239,426, and other publications to the number of 376 with a total
circulation per issue of 3,609,735. These foreign-language journals are not all or many of
them devoted to "stirring up strife" and do not prevent absorption of the foreign-born in the
body politic. They are, on the contrary, necessary means of making those who speak foreign
tongues acquainted with facts and conditions which newcomers need to know and understand. During
the Great War our government used these foreign-language publications to spread broadcast appeals
for financial and personal support. The excellent "Foreign Language Information Service," still
existing and having Federal backing, has in hand the introduction into the principal foreign-language
publications of information and appeal calculated to make good American citizens. The demand
that has been made in moments of excitement for the abolition of the foreign-language press
is therefore as stupid as it is unfriendly. Only by the use of his native tongue can a man
who does not yet understand English be made to feel and act as a genuine part of the citizenship
of his adopted country. It is for those who cherish real Americanism to try to get into these
publications, which are the strategic point of contact between older and newer Americans, all
that is deemed vital to the welfare of our common country. Through a wise use of this material
in every free public library and in the multiplied Loan Libraries in remote districts, the
newcomers in our country who read intelligently their own language and are eager to learn,
may gain all that a good citizen needs to know. And if in parallel columns the English with
the foreign language should be used to convey the same thought, the progress will be doubly
fast in true Americanization.

=Personal Conservation.=--In the conservation of natural resources for the benefit of all the
people we have been slow to understand either our social danger, or our social opportunity,
but our Federal Government is setting us notable lessons and local communities are trying to
learn and follow them, and Women's Clubs all over the country are staying up the hands of officials
and trying to help save the people's inheritance for the people's wealth; surely a fatherly
and a motherly office if any state function can be. When we enter the area of protection of
the young and weak and ignorant against the exploitation of vice and greed and selfishness,
we are in the very centre of that parental care which the modern state now seeks to give to
its citizens. When the Great War turned into training camps the flower of our youth, these
agencies for moral protection and social watch-care which had been so largely developed as
volunteer and private social work, became the resource of a government bent on keeping men
"fit to fight," and on preserving young women in the vicinity of the camps both from giving
and receiving harmful influences. Since then, more than ever, such agencies for moral protection
have become official in civic life and have the endorsement and the aid of government. It is
one new feature of all modern protective work that women are employed as members of the police,
as matrons in public places supported by tax, and indeed in places of commercial recreation,
as judges of special courts where parole and methods of suspended sentence are used, and in
all places where boys and girls are exposed to danger and to temptation. Thus the home influence
is spreading out toward the work-place and the play-centre--truly a retranslation of family
service in terms of the public life.

=The Children's Bureau.=--Our government at Washington used to be limited in its function to
those political services which no state organization could accomplish by itself, but now the
Federal departments are busily at work setting standards, if only through authentic information
and suggestion, which aim to raise the average life in all directions, economic and social.
The Children's Bureau is preëminently a standardizing body, although with no power to issue
or enforce decrees. The Bureaus which have to do with foods and animal life and farm management
are setting higher and higher levels of attainment for the common people in their home life
and in their vocational work. There is a strong movement to enlarge the educational influence
at the very heart of our national government with a Cabinet Head to set a high standard of
attainment in both the art, the science, and the administration of education as well as to
aid in equalizing educational opportunity. Moreover, there is a strong tendency, seen most
recently and vividly in the provisions of the Maternity Aid Bill, for all social efforts to
ask and to be granted Federal financial aid on the fifty-fifty plan. There is not a consensus
of opinion among the thoughtful as to the wisdom of thus placing upon the general government
the burden of social schemes upon which a minority of the people, be that minority large or
small, are alone agreed. The force of persuasion may secure national legislation in advance
of that which many local communities already have or are seeking to secure. The increase of
national power through the work of national officials is not deemed politically sound by some
persons who favor specific action by the states alone in such matters as maternity aid. The
tendency is, however, a proof of two things, one that we are as a people becoming a nation;
that is more a centralized and united governmental force--and the other that more and more
people are trying in every way to secure a more uniform as well as a higher standard of living
for all our citizens.

=A Women's Lobby at the National Capitol.=--It is said that the most powerful lobby in Washington
is "the Public Welfare Lobby backed by seven million organized American women." This lobby
is composed of representatives of the following organizations of women with number of members
estimated as indicated:

    National League of Women Voters                     2,000,000
    General Federation of Women's Clubs                 2,000,000
    Women's Christian Temperance Union                    500,000
    National Congress of Mothers and
      Parent-Teacher Associations                         310,000
    National Women's Trade Union League                   600,000
    Daughters of the American Revolution                  200,000
    American Home Economics Association                     1,800
    National Consumers' League                  (No number given)
    American Association of University Women               16,000
    National Council of Jewish Women                       50,000
    Girls' Friendly Society                                52,000
    Young Women's Christian Association                   560,000
    National Federation of Business and
      Professional Women                                   40,000
    Women's League for Peace and Freedom                    2,500

This represents a formidable influence upon public affairs, one that may do some harm along
with much good, unless it goes to school to social facts and balances its social sympathy (already
shown in such alert attention to the needs of the weaker and younger portion of the nation)
with sober and sane understanding of the difficulty of getting progress in any line unless
a majority of the people are unitedly in favor of it and willing to sacrifice something in
order to secure it.

There are signs already that among the leaders of women in the new organization of Women Voters
there is a feeling that the pendulum may swing too far toward philanthropic measures, for some
of which the general public is as yet unprepared. The call is already made for more concentration
upon the better enforcement of existing laws, rather than upon constant demand for new legislation
in the interest of social welfare.

