The minutes were read, and an adjourned debate was then renewed on a motion to organise public
meetings to petition in favour of Parliamentary Reform.  The reader must understand that politics
in those days were somewhat different from the politics of fifty or sixty years later.  Bread
was thirteenpence a quartern loaf; the national debt, with a much smaller population, was what
it is now; everything was taxed, and wages were very low.  But what was most galling was the
fact that the misery, the taxes, and the debt had been accumulated, not by the will of the
people, but by a corrupt House of Commons, the property of borough-mongers, for the sake of
supporting the Bourbons directly, but indirectly and chiefly the House of Hanover and the hated
aristocracy.  There was also a scandalous list of jobs and pensions.  Years afterwards, when
the Government was forced to look into abuses, the Reverend Thomas Thurlow, to take one example
amongst others, was awarded, as compensation for the loss of his two offices, Patentee of Bankrupts
and Keeper of Hanaper, the modest allowance annually until his death of 11,380 pounds 14s.
6d.  The men and women of that time, although there were scarcely any newspapers, were not
fools, and there was not a Nottingham weaver who put a morsel of bread in his hungry belly
who did not know that two morsels might have gone there if there were no impost on foreign
corn to maintain rents, and if there were no interest to pay on money borrowed to keep these
sacred kings and lords safe in their palaces and parks.  Opinion at the Red Lion Friends of
the People Club was much divided.  Some were for demonstrations and agitation, whilst others
were for physical force. The discussion went on irregularly amidst much tumult.

"How long would they have waited over the water if they had done nothing but jaw?  They met
together and tore down the Bastile, and that's what we must do."

"That may be true," said a small white-faced man who neither smoked nor drank, "but what followed?
You don't do anything really till you've reasoned it out."

"It's my belief, parson," retorted the other, "that you are in a d--- d funk.  This is not
the place for Methodists."

"Order, order!" shouted the chairman.

"I am not a Methodist," quietly replied the other; "unless you mean by Methodist a man who
fears God and loves his Saviour.  I am not ashamed to own that, and I am none the worse for
it as far as I know. As for being a coward, we shall see."

The Secretary meanwhile had gone on with his beer.  Despite his notorious failing, he had been
chosen for the post because in his sober moments he was quick with his pen.  He was not a working
man; nay, it was said he had been at Oxford.  His present profession was that of attorney's
clerk.  He got up and began a harangue about Brutus.

"There's one way of dealing with tyrants--the old way, Mr. Chairman. Death to them all, say
I; the short cut; none of your palaver; what's the use of palavering?"

He was a little shaky, took hold of the rail of his chair, and as he sat down broke his pipe.

Some slight applause followed; but the majority were either against him, or thought it better
to be silent.

The discussion continued irregularly, and Zachariah noticed that about half-a-dozen of those
present took no part in it.  At about ten o'clock the chairman declared the meeting at an end;
and it was quite time he did so, for the smoke and the drink had done their work.

As Zachariah came out, a man stood by his side whom he had scarcely noticed during the evening.
He was evidently a shoemaker.  There was a smell of leather about him, and his hands and face
were grimy.  He had a slightly turned-up nose, smallish eyes, half hidden under very black
eyebrows, and his lips were thin and straight.  His voice was exceedingly high-pitched, and
had something creaking in it like the sound of an ill-greased axle.  He spoke with emphasis,
but not quite like an Englishman, was fond of alliteration, and often, in the middle of a sentence,
paused to search for a word which pleased him. Having found it, the remainder of the sentence
was poised and cast from him like a dart.  His style was a curious mixture of foreign imperfection
and rhetoric--a rhetoric, however, by no means affected. It might have been so in another person,
but it was not so in him.

"Going east?" said he.

"Yes."

"If you want company, I'll walk with you.  What do you think of the Friends?"

Zachariah, it will be borne in mind, although he was a Democrat, had never really seen the
world.  He belonged to a religious sect.  He believed in the people, it is true, but it was
a people of Cromwellian Independents.  He purposely avoided the company of men who used profane
language, and never in his life entered a tavern. He did not know what the masses really were;
for although he worked with his hands, printers were rather a superior set of fellows, and
his was an old-established shop which took the best of its class. When brought actually into
contact with swearers and drunkards as patriots and reformers he was more than a little shocked.

"Not much," quoth he.

"Not worse than our virtuous substitute for a sovereign?"

"No, certainly."

"You object to giving them votes, but is not the opinion of the silliest as good as that of
Lord Sidmouth?"

"That's no reason for giving them votes."

"I should like to behold the experiment of a new form of misgovernment.  If we are to be eternally
enslaved to fools and swindlers, why not a change?  We have had regal misrule and aristocratic
swindling long enough."

"Seriously, my friend," he continued, "study that immortal charter, the Declaration of the
Rights of Man."

He stopped in the street, and with an oratorical air repeated the well-known lines, "Men are
born and always continue free, and equal in respect of their rights. . . .  He knew them by
heart.  "It is the truth," he continued:  "you must come to that, unless you believe in the
Divine appointment of dynasties.  There is no logical repose between Lord Liverpool and the
Declaration.  What is the real difference between him and you?  None but a question of degree.
He does not believe in absolute monarchy, and stays at this point.  You go a little lower.
You are both alike.  How dare you say, 'My brother, I am more honest and more religious than
you; pay me half-a-crown and I will spend it for your welfare'?  You cannot tell me that. 
You know I should have a RIGHT to reject you.  I refuse to be coerced.  I prefer freedom to--felicity."

Zachariah was puzzled.  He was not one of those persons who can see no escape from an argument
and yet are not convinced; one of those happy creatures to whom the operations of the intellect
are a joke-- who, if they are shown that the three angles of a triangle are equal to two right
angles, decline to disprove it, but act as if they were but one.  To Zachariah the appeal "Where
will you stop?" was generally successful.  If his understanding told him he could not stop,
he went on.  And yet it so often happens that if we do go on we are dissatisfied; we cannot
doubt each successive step, but we doubt the conclusion.  We arrive serenely at the end, and
lo! it is an absurdity which common sense, as we call it, demolishes with scoffs and laughter.

