Mackerel, boiled
Mutton cutlets and mashed potatoes
   Haunch of roast
   Saddle of roast
Mutton, shoulder of roast

Oysters, scalloped

Partridge Pheasant Pie, raised Pig, sucking, roast or baked Pigeon Plum-pudding, Christmas,
in mould

Rabbit, boiled
   Or fowl, curried
Raspberry cream
Rissoles

Salmon, boiled
Snipe
Soles, dish of filleted
Spinach and poached eggs
Strawberries, au naturel, in
    ornamental flower-pot

Tongue, cold boiled Trifle Turbot, or brill, boiled Turkey, roast

Veal, fricandeau of Vol-au-vent

Whiting, dish of, fried Woodcock

THE BOOK OF HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT.

CHAPTER I.

THE MISTRESS. 25-28.

I. AS WITH THE COMMANDER OF AN ARMY, or the leader of any enterprise, so is it with the mistress
of a house. Her spirit will be seen through the whole establishment; and just in proportion
as she performs her duties intelligently and thoroughly, so will her domestics follow in her
path. Of all those acquirements, which more particularly belong to the feminine character,
there are none which take a higher rank, in our estimation, than such as enter into a knowledge
of household duties; for on these are perpetually dependent the happiness, comfort, and well-being
of a family. In this opinion we are borne out by the author of "The Vicar of Wakefield," who
says: "The modest virgin, the prudent wife, and the careful matron, are much more serviceable
in life than petticoated philosophers, blustering heroines, or virago queens. She who makes
her husband and her children happy, who reclaims the one from vice and trains up the other
to virtue, is a much greater character than ladies described in romances, whose whole occupation
is to murder mankind with shafts from their quiver, or their eyes."

2. PURSUING THIS PICTURE, we may add, that to be a good housewife does not necessarily imply
an abandonment of proper pleasures or amusing recreation; and we think it the more necessary
to express this, as the performance of the duties of a mistress may, to some minds, perhaps
seem to be incompatible with the enjoyment of life. Let us, however, now proceed to describe
some of those home qualities and virtues which are necessary to the proper management of a
Household, and then point out the plan which may be the most profitably pursued for the daily
regulation of its affairs.

3. EARLY RISING IS ONE OF THE MOST ESSENTIAL QUALITIES which enter into good Household Management,
as it is not only the parent of health, but of innumerable other advantages. Indeed, when a
mistress is an early riser, it is almost certain that her house will be orderly and well-managed.
On the contrary, if she remain in bed till a late hour, then the domestics, who, as we have
before observed, invariably partake somewhat of their mistress's character, will surely become
sluggards. To self-indulgence all are more or less disposed, and it is not to be expected that
servants are freer from this fault than the heads of houses. The great Lord Chatham thus gave
his advice in reference to this subject:--"I would have inscribed on the curtains of your bed,
and the walls of your chamber, 'If you do not rise early, you can make progress in nothing.'"

4. CLEANLINESS IS ALSO INDISPENSABLE TO HEALTH, and must be studied both in regard to the person
and the house, and all that it contains. Cold or tepid baths should be employed every morning,
unless, on account of illness or other circumstances, they should be deemed objectionable.
The bathing of children will be treated of under the head of "MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN."

