In estimating the effect of Horace upon his own and later times, we must take into account
two aspects of his work. These are, the forms in which he expressed himself, and the substance
of which they are the garment. We shall find him distinguished in both; but in the substance
of his message we shall find him distinguished by a quality which sets him apart from other
poets ancient and modern.

This distinctive quality lies neither in the originality nor in the novelty of the Horatian
message, which, as a matter of fact, is surprisingly familiar, and perhaps even commonplace.
It lies rather in the appealing manner and mood of its communication. It is a message living
and vibrant.

The reason for this is that in Horace we have, above all, a person. No poet speaks from the
page with greater directness, no poet establishes so easily and so completely the personal
relation with the reader, no poet is remembered so much as if he were a friend in the flesh.
In this respect, Horace among poets is a parallel to Thackeray in the field of the novel. What
the letters of Cicero are to the intrigue and turmoil of politics, war, and the minor joys
and sorrows of private and social life in the last days of the Republic, the lyrics and "Conversations"
of Horace are to the mood of the philosophic mind of the early Empire. Both are lights which
afford us a clear view of interiors otherwise but faintly illuminated. They are priceless interpreters
of their times. In modern times, we make environment interpret the poet. We understand a Tennyson,
a Milton, or even a Shakespeare, from our knowledge of the world in which he lived. In the
case of antiquity, the process is reversed. We reconstruct the times of Caesar and Augustus
from fortunate acquaintance with two of the most representative men who ever possessed the
gift of literary genius.

It is because Horace's appeal depends so largely upon his qualities as a person that our interpretation
of him must center about his personal traits. We shall re-present to the imagination his personal
appearance. We shall account for the personal qualities which contributed to the poetic gift
that set him apart as the interpreter of the age to his own and succeeding generations. We
shall observe the natural sympathy with men and things by reason of which he reflects with
peculiar faithfulness the life of city and country. We shall become acquainted with the thoughts
and the moods of a mind and heart that were nicely sensitive to sight and sound and personal
contact. We shall hear what the poet has to say of himself not only as a member of the human
family, but as the user of the pen.

This interpretation of Horace as person and poet will be best attempted from his own work,
and best expressed in his own phrase. The pages which follow are a manner of Horatian mosaic.
They contain little not said or suggested by the poet himself.

1. HORACE THE PERSON

Horace was of slight stature among even a slight-statured race. At the period when we like
him best, when he was growing mellower and better with advancing years, his black hair was
more than evenly mingled with grey. The naturally dark and probably not too finely-textured
skin of face and expansive forehead was deepened by the friendly breezes of both city and country
to the vigorous golden brown of the Italian. Feature and eye held the mirror up to a spirit
quick to anger but plenteous in good-nature. Altogether, Horace was a short, rotund man, smiling
but serious, of nothing very remarkable either in appearance or in manner, and with a look
of the plain citizen. Of all the ancients who have left no material likeness, he is the least
difficult to know in person.

We see him in a carriage or at the shows with Maecenas, the Emperor's fastidious counsellor.
We have charming glimpses of him enjoying in company the hospitable shade of huge pine and
white poplar on the grassy terrace of some rose-perfumed Italian garden with noisy fountain
and hurrying stream. He loiters, with eyes bent on the pavement, along the winding Sacred Way
that leads to the Forum, or on his way home struggles against the crowd as it pushes its way
down town amid the dust and din of the busy city. He shrugs his shoulders in good-humored despair
as the sirocco brings lassitude and irritation from beyond the Mediterranean, or he sits huddled
up in some village by the sea, shivering with the winds from the Alps, reading, and waiting
for the first swallow to herald the spring.

We see him at a mild game of tennis in the broad grounds of the Campus Martius. We see him
of an evening vagabonding among the nameless common folk of Rome, engaging in small talk with
dealers in small merchandise. He may look in upon a party of carousing friends, with banter
that is not without reproof. We find him lionized in the homes of the first men of the city
in peace and war, where he mystifies the not too intellectual fair guests with graceful and
provokingly passionless gallantry. He sits at ease with greater enjoyment under the opaque
vine and trellis of his own garden. He appears in the midst of his household as it bustles
with preparation for the birthday feast of a friend, or he welcomes at a less formal board
and with more unrestrained joy the beloved comrade-in-arms of Philippi, prolonging the genial
intercourse

  "Till Phoebus the red East unbars
  And puts to rout the trembling stars."

Or we see him bestride an indifferent nag, cantering down the Appian Way, with its border of
tombs, toward the towering dark-green summits of the Alban Mount, twenty miles away, or climbing
the winding white road to Tivoli where it reclines on the nearest slope of the Sabines, and
pursuing the way beyond it along the banks of headlong Anio where it rushes from the mountains
to join the Tiber. We see him finally arrived at his Sabine farm, the gift of Maecenas, standing
in tunic-sleeves at his doorway in the morning sun, and contemplating with thankful heart valley
and hill-side opposite, and the cold stream of Digentia in the valley-bottom below. We see
him rambling about the wooded uplands of his little estate, and resting in the shade of a decaying
rustic temple to indite a letter to the friend whose not being present is all that keeps him
from perfect happiness. He participates with the near-by villagers in the joys of the rural
holiday. He mingles homely philosophy and fiction with country neighbors before his own hearth
in the big living-room of the farm-house.

Horace's place is not among the dim and uncertain figures of a hoary antiquity. Only give him
modern shoes, an Italian cloak, and a walking-stick, instead of sandals and toga, and he may
be seen on the streets of Rome today. Nor is he less modern in character and bearing than in
appearance. We discern in his composition the same strange and seemingly contradictory blend
of the grave and gay, the lively and severe, the constant and the mercurial, the austere and
the trivial, the dignified and the careless, that is so baffling to the observer of Italian
character and conduct today.

2. HORACE THE POET

To understand how Horace came to be a great poet as well as an engaging person, it is necessary
to look beneath this somewhat commonplace exterior, and to discern the spiritual man.

The foundations of literature are laid in life. For the production of great poetry two conditions
are necessary. There must be, first, an age pregnant with the celestial fires of deep emotion.
Second, there must be in its midst one of the rare men whom we call inspired. He must be of
such sensitive spiritual fiber as to vibrate to every breeze of the national passion, of such
spiritual capacity as to assimilate the common thoughts and moods of the time, of such fine
perception and of such sureness of command over word, phrase, and rhythm, as to give crowning
expression to what his soul has made its own.

For abundance of stirring and fertilizing experience, history presents few equals of the times
when Horace lived. His lifetime fell in an age which was in continual travail with great and
uncertain movement. Never has Fortune taken greater delight in her bitter and insolent game,
never displayed a greater pertinacity in the derision of men. In the period from Horace's birth
at Venusia in southeastern Italy, on December 8, B.C. 65, to November 27, B.C. 8, when

  "Mourned of men and Muses nine,
  They laid him on the Esquiline,"

there occurred the series of great events, to men in their midst incomprehensible, bewildering,
and disheartening, which after times could readily interpret as the inevitable change from
the ancient and decaying Republic to the better knit if less free life of the Empire.

We are at an immense distance, and the differences have long since been composed. The menacing
murmur of trumpets is no longer audible, and the seas are no longer red with blood. The picture
is old, and faded, and darkened, and leaves us cold, until we illuminate it with the light
of imagination. Then first we see, or rather feel, the magnitude of the time: its hatreds and
its selfishness; its differences of opinion, sometimes honest and sometimes disingenuous, but
always maintained with the heat of passion; its divisions of friends and families; its lawlessness
and violence; its terrifying uncertainties and adventurous plunges; its tragedies of confiscation,
murder, fire, proscription, feud, insurrection, riot, war; the dramatic exits of the leading
actors in the great play,--of Catiline at Pistoria, of Crassus in the eastern deserts, of Clodius
at Bovillae within sight of the gates of Rome, of Pompey in Egypt, of Cato in Africa, of Caesar,
Servius Sulpicius, Marcellus, Trebonius and Dolabella, Hirtius and Pansa, Decimus Brutus, the
Ciceros, Marcus Brutus and Cassius, Sextus the son of Pompey, Antony and Cleopatra,--as one
after another

  "Strutted and fretted his hour upon the stage,
  And then was heard no more." 

On that trip to a, during which he and the comrade seem to have establish their way into various
musical or oratorical organization, that he paid a sojourn to Schiller. But as he had a greatest dislike
of move as a professor and teacher in calling a yet known post, he soon try to kind of a meagre
resource by literary work. He had sure societal gifts, and merely a coarse tenor intensity, and
look in his youth to have been secure as a homo of letters among
jena reasonably wide ellipse of friends at Leipzig.

He had been simply fate for the Church, but he inconstantly give that
up, in command to devote himself wholly to philological studies. With
this object in view, he had go armed with a request from the management
of the Building, who wanted to the rights of Wallenstein, which was
especially finished.

  He told me later of the impression made upon
  him by Schiller, with his long slight self
  and irresistibly repulsive blue opinion. His only
  complaint was a, owing to a well-meant trick act on him by his friend
sermones, if he had been placed in a most position; for a latter had
negociate to send Schiller a volume of Adolph Wagner's poems in advance.

The poet was much embarrassed to hear Schiller address him in flattering
valuation on the subject of his poetry, but was convinced that the
encouraging man was originally be old him out of kindness.

  True, i have learn experts say that the latter was
  written in unusually pompous Italian; but Goethe
  sent him a encyclical full of praise,
  as well as the conductor cup from his own household
  plate.

Afterwards
  he devoted himself entirely to philological
  studios-- one of his best-unconstipated publications
  in that department being his Parnasso Italiano, which he trying to
Goethe in an italian poem.

The impression that i, as a boy of 13, conceived of Adolph Wagner, amid the surroundings of his own
home, was that he was a peculiarly distant property.
 He provided for the little Horace's education at first among the sons of the "great"
centurions who constituted the society of the garrison-town of Venusia, afterwards ambitiously
took him to Rome to acquire even the accomplishments usual among the sons of senators, and
finally sent him to Athens, garner of wisdom of the ages, where the learning of the past was
constantly made to live again by masters with the quick Athenian spirit of telling or hearing
new things.

The intellectual experience of Horace's younger days was thus of the broadest character. Into
it there entered and were blended the shrewd practical understanding of the Italian provincial;
the ornamental accomplishments of the upper classes; the inspiration of Rome's history, with
the long line of heroic figures that appear in the twelfth Ode of the first book like a gallery
of magnificent portraits; first-hand knowledge of prominent men of action and letters; unceasing
discussion of questions of the day which could be avoided by none; and, finally, humanizing
contact on their own soil with Greek philosophy and poetry, Greek monuments and history, and
teachers of racial as well as intellectual descent from the greatest people of the past.

But Horace's experience assumed still greater proportions. He passed from the university of
Athens to the larger university of life. The news of Caesar's death at the hands of the "Liberators,"
which reached him as a student there at the age of twenty-one, and the arrival of Brutus some
months after, stirred his young blood. As an officer in the army of Brutus, he underwent the
hardships of the long campaign, enriching life with new friendships formed in circumstances
that have always tightened the friendly bond. He saw the disastrous day of Philippi, narrowly
escaped death by shipwreck, and on his return to Italy and Rome found himself without father
or fortune.

Nor was the return to Rome the end of his education. In the interval which followed, Horace's
mind, always of philosophic bent, was no doubt busy with reflection upon the disparity between
the ideals of the liberators and the practical results of their actions, upon the difference
between the disorganized, anarchical Rome of the civil war and the gradually knitting Rome
of Augustus, and upon the futility of presuming to judge the righteousness either of motives
or means in a world where men, to say nothing of understanding each other, could not understand
themselves. In the end, he accepted what was not to be avoided. He went farther than acquiescence.
The growing conviction among thoughtful men that Augustus was the hope of Rome found lodgment
also in his mind. He gravitated from negative to positive. His value as an educated man was
recognized, and he found himself at twenty-four in possession of the always coveted boon of
the young Italian, a place in the government employ. A clerkship in the treasury gave him salary,
safety, respectability, a considerable dignity, and a degree of leisure.

Of the leisure he made wise use. Still in the afterglow of his Athenian experience, he began
to write. He attracted the attention of a limited circle of associates. The personal qualities
which made him a favorite with the leaders of the Republican army again served him well. He
won the recognition and the favor of men who had the ear of the ruling few. In about 33, when
he was thirty-two years old, Maecenas, the appreciative counsellor, prompted by Augustus, the
politic ruler, who recognized the value of talent in every field for his plans of reconstruction,
made him independent of money-getting, and gave him currency among the foremost literary men
of the city. He triumphed over the social prejudice against the son of a freedman, disarmed
the jealousy of literary rivals, and was assured of fame as well as favor.

Nor was even this the end of Horace's experience with the world of action. It may be that his
actual participation in affairs did cease with Maecenas's gift of the Sabine farm, and it is
true that he never pretended to live on their own ground the life of the high-born and rich,
but he nevertheless associated on sympathetic terms with men through whom he felt all the activities
and ideals of the class most representative of the national life, and past experiences and
natural adaptability enabled him to assimilate their thoughts and emotions.

Thanks to the glowing personal nature of Horace's works, we know who many of these friends
and patrons were who so enlarged his vision and deepened his inspiration. Almost without exception
his poems are addressed or dedicated to men with whom he was on terms of more than ordinary
friendship. They were rare men,--fit audience, though few; men of experience in affairs at
home and in the field, men of natural taste and real cultivation, of broad and sane outlook,
of warm heart and deep sympathies. There was Virgil, whom he calls the half of his own being.
There was Plotius, and there was Varius, bird of Maeonian song, whom he ranks with the singer
of the Aeneid himself as the most luminously pure of souls on earth. There was Quintilius,
whose death was bewailed by many good men;--when would incorruptible Faith and Truth find his
equal? There was Maecenas, well-bred and worldly-wise, the pillar and ornament of his fortunes.
There was Septimius, the hoped-for companion of his mellow old age in the little corner of
earth that smiled on him beyond all others. There was Iccius, procurator of Agrippa's estates
in Sicily, sharing Horace's delight in philosophy. There was Agrippa himself, son-in-law of
Augustus, grave hero of battles and diplomacy. There was elderly Trebatius, sometime friend
of Cicero and Caesar, with dry legal humor early seasoned in the wilds of Gaul. There were
Pompeius and Corvinus, old-soldier friends with whom he exchanged reminiscences of the hard
campaign. There was Messalla, a fellow-student at Athens, and Pollio, soldier, orator, and
poet. There were Julius Florus and other members of the ambitious literary cohort in the train
of Tiberius. There was Aristius Fuscus, the watch of whose wit was ever wound and ready to
strike. There was Augustus himself, busy administrator of a world, who still found time for
letters.

It is through the medium of personalities like these that Horace's message was delivered to
the world of his time and to later generations. How far the finished elegance of his expression
is due to their discriminating taste, and how much of the breadth and sanity of his content
is due to their vigor of character and cosmopolitan culture, we may only conjecture. Literature
is not the product of a single individual. The responsive and stimulating audience is hardly
less needful than the poet's inspiration.

Such were the variety and abundance of Horace's experience. It was large and human. He had
touched life high and low, bond and free, public and private, military and civil, provincial
and urban, Hellenic, Asiatic, and Italian, urban and rustic, ideal and practical, at the cultured
court and among the ignorant, but not always unwise, common people.

And yet, numbers of men possessed of experience as abundant have died without being poets,
or even wise men. Their experience was held in solution, so to speak, and failed to precipitate.
Horace's experience did precipitate. Nature gave him the warm and responsive soul by reason
of which he became a part of all he met. Unlike most of his associates among the upper classes
to which he rose, his sympathies could include the freedman, the peasant, and the common soldier.
Unlike most of the multitude from which he sprang, he could extend his sympathies to the careworn
rich and the troubled statesman. He had learned from his own lot and from observation that
no life was wholly happy, that the cares of the so-called fortunate were only different from,
not less real than, those of the ordinary man, that every human heart had its chamber furnished
for the entertainment of Black Care, and that the chamber was never without its guest.

But not even the precipitate of experience called wisdom will alone make the poet. Horace was
again endowed by nature with another and rarer and equally necessary gift,--the sense of artistic
expression. It would be waste of time to debate how much he owed to native genius, how much
to his own laborious patience, and how much to the good fortune of generous human contact.
He is surely to be classed among examples of what for want of a better term we call inspiration.
The poet is born. We may account for the inspiration of Horace by supposing him of Greek descent
(as if Italy had never begotten poets of her own), but the mystery remains. In the case of
any poet, after everything has been said of the usual influences, there is always something
left to be accounted for only on the ground of genius. It was the possession of this that set
Horace apart from other men of similar experience.

The poet, however, is not the mere accident of birth. Horace is aware of a power not himself
that makes for poetic righteousness, and realizes the mystery of inspiration. The Muse cast
upon him at birth her placid glance. He expects glory neither on the field nor in the course,
but looks to song for his triumphs. To Apollo,

  "Lord of the enchanting shell,
  Parent of sweet and solemn-breathing airs,"

who can give power of song even unto the mute, he owes all his power and all his fame. It is
the gift of Heaven that he is pointed out by the finger of the passer-by as the minstrel of
the Roman lyre, that he breathes the divine fire and pleases men. But he is as perfectly appreciative
of the fact that poets are born and also made, and condemns the folly of depending upon inspiration
unsupported by effort. He calls himself the bee of Matinum, industriously flitting with honeyed
thigh about the banks of humid Tibur. What nature begins, cultivation must develop. Neither
training without the rich vein of native endowment, nor natural talent without cultivation,
will suffice; both must be friendly conspirators in the process of forming the poet. Wisdom
is the beginning and source of writing well. He who would run with success the race that is
set before him must endure from boyhood the hardships of heat and cold, and abstain from women
and wine. The gift of God must be made perfect by the use of the file, by long waiting, and
by conscious intellectual discipline.

3. HORACE THE INTERPRETER OF HIS TIMES

HORACE THE DUALITY

Varied as were Horace's experiences, they were mainly of two kinds, and there are two Horaces
who reflect them. There is a more natural Horace, simple and direct, of ordinary Italian manners
and ideals, and a less natural Horace, finished in the culture of Greece and the artificialities
of life in the capital. They might be called the unconventional and the conventional Horace.

This duality is only the reflection of the two-fold experience of Horace as the provincial
village boy and as the successful literary man of the city. The impressions received from Venusia
and its simple population of hard-working, plain-speaking folk, from the roaring Aufidus and
the landscape of Apulia, from the freedman father's common-sense instruction as he walked about
in affectionate companionship with his son, never faded from Horace's mind. The ways of the
city were superimposed upon the ways of the country, but never displaced nor even covered them.
They were a garment put on and off, sometimes partly hiding, but never for long, the original
cloak of simplicity. It is not necessary to think its wearer insincere when, constrained by
social circumstance, he put it on. As in most dualities not consciously assumed, both Horaces
were genuine. When Davus the slave reproaches his master for longing, while at Rome, to be
back in the country, and for praising the attractions of the city, while in the country, it
is not mere discontent or inconsistency in Horace which he is attacking. Horace loved both
city and country.

And yet, whatever the appeal of the city and its artificialities, Horace's real nature called
for the country and its simple ways. It is the Horace of Venusia and the Sabines who is the
more genuine of the two. The more formal poems addressed to Augustus and his house-hold sometimes
sound the note of affectation, but the most exacting critic will hesitate to bring a like charge
against the odes which celebrate the fields and hamlets of Italy and the prowess of her citizen-soldiers
of time gone by, or against the mellow epistles and lyrics in which the poet philosophizes
upon the spectacle of human life.

i. THE INTERPRETER OF ITALIAN LANDSCAPE

The real Horace is to be found first of all as the interpreter of the beauty and fruitfulness
of Italy. It is no land of mere literary imagination which he makes us see with such clear-cut
distinctness. It is not an Italy in Theocritean colors, like the Italy of Virgil's Bucolics,
but the Italy of Horace's own time, the Italy of his own birth and experience, and the Italy
of today. Horace is not a descriptive poet. The reader will look in vain for nature-poems in
the modern sense. With a word or a phrase only, he flashes upon our vision the beautiful, the
significant, the permanent in the scenery of Italy. The features which he loved best, or which
for other reasons caught his eye, are those that we still see. There are the oak and the opaque
ilex, the pine and the poplar, the dark, funereal cypress, the bright flower of the too-short-lived
rose, and the sweet-scented bed of violets. There are the olive groves of Venafrum. Most lovely
of sights and most beautiful of figures, there is the purple-clustered vine of vari-colored
autumn wedded to the elm. There is the bachelor plane-tree. There are the long-horned, grey-flanked,
dark-muzzled, liquid-eyed cattle, grazing under the peaceful skies of the Campagna or enjoying
in the meadow their holiday freedom from the plow; the same cattle that Carducci sings--

  "In the grave sweetness of whose tranquil eyes
  Of emerald, broad and still reflected, dwells
  All the divine green silence of the plain."

We are made to see the sterile rust on the corn, and to feel the blazing heat of dog-days,
when not a breath stirs as the languid shepherd leads his flock to the banks of the stream.
The sunny pastures of Calabria lie spread before us, we see the yellow Tiber at flood, the
rushing Anio, the deep eddyings of Liris' taciturn stream, the secluded valleys of the Apennines,
the leaves flying before the wind at the coming of winter, the snow-covered uplands of the
Alban hills, the mead sparkling with hoar-frost at the approach of spring, autumn rearing from
the fields her head decorous with mellow fruits, and golden abundance pouring forth from a
full horn her treasures upon the land. It is real Italy which Horace cuts on his cameos,--real
landscape, real flowers and fruits, real men. THE INTERPRETER OF ITALIAN LIVING

Again, in its visualization of the life of Italy, Horace's art is no less clear than in the
presentation of her scenery. Where else may be seen so many vivid incidental pictures of men
at their daily occupations of work or play? After the lapse of a Iodine was shown by him to Leipzig,
and we handed over some days of those Wagners, my own father's relation, consisting of my uncle Adriatic
and his sister as Music. The man, whose influence afterwards became even more stimulating to me, not
too for the time brought himself and her rich environment called into my life. He and my aunt there were
however close friends of Jeannette Thome, a queer old amah who shared
naught with them a house deepened in the market-place, in which, if
i am not mistaken, the electoral family of Saxony had, never since
the days of Augustus the strong, hired and furnished the two principal
storeys for their own practice whenever they were in Leipzig.

So far as i know, Jeannette Thome truly been owned these life storey, of which she inhabited
only a modest apartment looking out on a courtyard. As, so, until the King merely occupied the
hired rooms for few life in the year, Jeannette and her circle really made use of his splendid apartments,
and one of the odes was made into a bedroom for me brought.

The decorations and fittings of these men also dated from the days of Augustus this abject. They
were luxurious mattock with heavy silk and singular rococo'ingleside, all of which were much
soiled with age. That a matter of fact, as i was delighted with these large strange rooms,
looking out upon the bustling market-place, where i loved above all
to iii watch has the bundles in the Hannibal making their way in their
old-forge'Club'attire, and filling up the width of the street.

There was only one portion of a decorations of the rooms that i thoroughly disliked, and the consisted
of the various portraits, but never pass the men of high-born dames in extreme petticoats, with youthful
faces and powdered hair. These called to me alone to ghosts, who, when i was large in the room,
seemed to come formal life, and filled me with the fright. To sleep in this chamber, and in the old-fashioned
bed of state, beneath those unearthly pictures, was a terror to me.

It is true I tried to hide my fear from my aunt when she has lighted me to bed in the evening with
her candle, but may never a night passed in which i was not most prey to
a horrible and ghostly visions, my dread of which may leave me in
the bath of perspiration.

  The personality of a three chief occupants of
  this storey was admirably been adapted to the ghostly
  impressions of the house into a reality that
  resembled some fairy-tale.

  Jeannette Thome was ever young and stag; she
  wore a wig, and seemed to hug to the consciousness
  of vanished beauty. My aunt, her faithful
  friend and guardian, who was also an maid, there was remarkable for
the height and hooped leanness of her person.

   He knows,
of course, the gods of Greece and the East,--Venus of Cythera and Paphos, of Eryx and Cnidus,
Mercury, deity of gain and benefactor of men, Diana, Lady of the mountain and the glade, Delian
Apollo, who bathes his unbound locks in the pure waters of Castalia, and Juno, sister and consort
of fulminating Jove. He is impressed by the glittering pomp of religious processions winding
their way to the summit of the Capitol. In all this, and even in the emperor-worship, now in
its first stages at Rome and more political than religious, he acquiesces, though he may himself
be a sparing frequenter of the abodes of worship. For him, as for Cicero, religion is one of
the social and civic proprieties, a necessary part of the national mechanism.

But the great Olympic deities do not really stir Horace's enthusiasm, or even evoke his warm
sympathy. The only Ode in which he prays to one of them with really fervent heart stands alone
among all the odes to the national gods. He petitions the great deity of healing and poetry
for what we know is most precious to him:

  "When, kneeling at Apollo's shrine,
    The bard from silver goblet pours
  Libations due of votive wine,
    What seeks he, what implores?

  "Not harvests from Sardinia's shore;
    Not grateful herds that crop the lea
  In hot Calabria; not a store
    Of gold, and ivory;

  "Not those fair lands where slow and deep
    Thro' meadows rich and pastures gay
  Thy silent waters, Liris, creep,
    Eating the marge away.

  "Let him to whom the gods award
    Calenian vineyards prune the vine;
  The merchant sell his balms and nard,
    And drain the precious wine

  "From cups of gold--to Fortune dear
    Because his laden argosy
  Crosses, unshattered, thrice a year
    The storm-vexed Midland sea.

  "Ripe berries from the olive bough,
    Mallows and endives, be my fare.
  Son of Latona, hear my vow!
    Apollo, grant my prayer!

  "Health to enjoy the blessings sent
    From heaven; a mind unclouded, strong;
  A cheerful heart; a wise content;
    An honored age; and song."

This is not the prayer of the city-bred formalist. It reflects the heart of humble breeding
and sympathies. For the faith which really sets the poet aglow we must go into the fields and
hamlets of Italy, among the householders who were the descendants of the long line of Italian
forefathers that had worshiped from time immemorial the same gods at the same altars in the
same way. They were not the gods of yesterday, imported from Greece and Egypt, and splendid
with display, but the simple gods of farm and fold native to the soil of Italy. Whatever his
conception of the logic of it all, Horace felt a powerful appeal as he contemplated the picturesqueness
of the worship and the simplicity of the worshiper, and reflected upon its genuineness and
purity as contrasted with what his worldly wisdom told him of the heart of the urban worshiper.

Horace may entertain a well-bred skepticism of Jupiter's thunderbolt, and he may pass the jest
on the indifference of the Epicurean gods to the affairs of men. When he does so, it is with
the gods of mythology and literature he is dealing, not with really religious gods. For the
old-fashioned faith of the country he entertains only the kindliest regard. The images that
rise in his mind at the mention of religion pure and undefiled are not the gaudy spectacles
to be seen in the marbled streets of the capital. They are images of incense rising in autumn
from the ancient altar on the home-stead, of the feast of the Terminalia with its slain lamb,
of libations of ruddy wine and offerings of bright flowers on the clear waters of some ancestral
spring, of the simple hearth of the farmhouse, of the family table resplendent with the silver
salinum, heirloom of generations, from which the grave paterfamilias makes the pious offering
of crackling salt and meal to little gods crowned with rosemary and myrtle, of the altar beneath
the pine to the Virgin goddess, of Faunus the shepherd-god, in the humor of wooing, roaming
the sunny farmfields in quest of retreating wood-nymphs, of Priapus the garden-god, and Silvanus,
guardian of boundaries, and, most of all, and typifying all, of the faith of rustic Phidyle,
with clean hands and a pure heart raising palms to heaven at the new of the moon, and praying
for the full-hanging vine, thrifty fields of corn, and unblemished lambs. Of the religious
life represented by these, Horace is no more tempted to make light than he is tempted to delineate
the Italian rustic as De Maupassant does the French,--as an amusing animal, with just enough
of the human in his composition to make him ludicrous.

iv. THE INTERPRETER OF THE POPULAR WISDOM

