Our artist loves to joke at a soldier; in whose livery there appears to him to be something
almost as ridiculous as in the uniform of the gentleman of the shoulder-knot. Tall life-guardsmen
and fierce grenadiers figure in many of his designs, and almost always in a ridiculous way.
Here again we have the honest popular English feeling which jeers at pomp or pretension of
all kinds, and is especially jealous of all display of military authority. "Raw Recruit," "ditto
dressed," ditto "served up," as we see them in the "Sketch-Book," are so many satires upon
the army: Hodge with his ribbons flaunting in his hat, or with red coat and musket, drilled
stiff and pompous, or at last, minus leg and arm, tottering about on crutches, does not fill
our English artist with the enthusiasm that follows the soldier in every other part of Europe.
Jeanjean, the conscript in France, is laughed at to be sure, but then it is because he is a
bad soldier: when he comes to have a huge pair of mustachios and the croix-d'honneur to briller
on his poitrine cicatrisee, Jeanjean becomes a member of a class that is more respected than
any other in the French nation. The veteran soldier inspires our people with no such awe--we
hold that democratic weapon the fist in much more honor than the sabre and bayonet, and laugh
at a man tricked out in scarlet and pipe-clay.

That regiment of heroes is "marching to divine service," to the tune of the "British Grenadiers."
There they march in state, and a pretty contempt our artist shows for all their gimcracks and
trumpery. He has drawn a perfectly English scene--the little blackguard boys are playing pranks
round about the men, and shouting, "Heads up, soldier," "Eyes right, lobster," as little British
urchins will do. Did one ever hear the like sentiments expressed in France? Shade of Napoleon,
we insult you by asking the question. In England, however, see how different the case is: and
designedly or undesignedly, the artist has opened to us a piece of his mind. In the crowd the
only person who admires the soldiers is the poor idiot, whose pocket a rogue is picking. There
is another picture, in which the sentiment is much the same, only, as in the former drawing
we see Englishmen laughing at the troops of the line, here are Irishmen giggling at the militia.

We have said that our artist has a great love for the drolleries of the Green Island. Would
any one doubt what was the country of the merry fellows depicted in his group of Paddies?

         "Place me amid O'Rourkes, O'Tooles,
            The ragged royal race of Tara;
          Or place me where Dick Martin rules
            The pathless wilds of Connemara."

We know not if Mr. Cruikshank has ever had any such good luck as to see the Irish in Ireland
itself, but he certainly has obtained a knowledge of their looks, as if the country had been
all his life familiar to him. Could Mr. O'Connell himself desire anything more national than
the scene of a drunken row, or could Father Mathew have a better text to preach upon? There
is not a broken nose in the room that is not thoroughly Irish.

We have then a couple of compositions treated in a graver manner, as characteristic too as
the other. We call attention to the comical look of poor Teague, who has been pursued and beaten
by the witch's stick, in order to point out also the singular neatness of the workmanship,
and the pretty, fanciful little glimpse of landscape that the artist has introduced in the
background. Mr. Cruikshank has a fine eye for such homely landscapes, and renders them with
great delicacy and taste. Old villages, farm-yards, groups of stacks, queer chimneys, churches,
gable-ended cottages, Elizabethan mansion-houses, and other old English scenes, he depicts
with evident enthusiasm. Neither is he very happy in trees, and such rustical produce; or,
rather, we should say, he is very original, his trees being decidedly of his own make and composition,
not imitated from any master.

But what then? Can a man be supposed to imitate everything? We know what the noblest study
of mankind is, and to this Mr. Cruikshank has confined himself. That postilion with the people
in the broken-down chaise roaring after him is as deaf as the post by which he passes. Suppose
all the accessories were away, could not one swear that the man was stone-deaf, beyond the
reach of trumpet? What is the peculiar character in a deaf man's physiognomy?--can any person
define it satisfactorily in words?--not in pages; and Mr. Cruikshank has expressed it on a
piece of paper not so big as the tenth part of your thumb-nail. The horses of John Gilpin are
much more of the equestrian order; and as here the artist has only his favorite suburban buildings
to draw, not a word is to be said against his design. The inn and old buildings are charmingly
designed, and nothing can be more prettily or playfully touched.

         "At Edmonton his loving wife
            From the balcony spied
          Her tender husband, wond'ring much
            To see how he did ride.

         "'Stop, stop, John Gilpin!

         "And now the turnpike gates again
            Flew open in short space;
          The toll-men thinking, as before,
            That Gilpin rode a race."

The rush, and shouting, and clatter are excellently depicted by the artist; and we, who have
been scoffing at his manner of designing animals, must here make a special exception in favor
of the hens and chickens; each has a different action, and is curiously natural.

Happy are children of all ages who have such a ballad and such pictures as this in store for
them! It is a comfort to think that woodcuts never wear out, and that the book still may be
had for a shilling, for those who can command that sum of money.

In the "Epping Hunt," which we owe to the facetious pen of Mr. Hood, our artist has not been
so successful. There is here too much horsemanship and not enough incident for him; but the
portrait of Roundings the huntsman is an excellent sketch, and a couple of the designs contain
great humor. The first represents the Cockney hero, who, "like a bird, was singing out while
sitting on a tree."

And in the second the natural order is reversed. The stag having taken heart, is hunting the
huntsman, and the Cheapside Nimrod is most ignominiously running away.

The Easter Hunt, we are told, is no more; and as the Quarterly Review recommends the British
public to purchase Mr. Catlin's pictures, as they form the only record of an interesting race
now rapidly passing away, in like manner we should exhort all our friends to purchase Mr. Cruikshank's
designs of ANOTHER interesting race, that is run already and for the last time.

Besides these, we must mention, in the line of our duty, the notable tragedies of "Tom Thumb"
and "Bombastes Furioso," both of which have appeared with many illustrations by Mr. Cruikshank.
The "brave army" of Bombastes exhibits a terrific display of brutal force, which must shock
the sensibilities of an English radical. And we can well understand the caution of the general,
who bids this soldatesque effrenee to begone, and not to kick up a row.

Such a troop of lawless ruffians let loose upon a populous city would play sad havoc in it;
and we fancy the massacres of Birmingham renewed, or at least of Badajoz, which, though not
quite so dreadful, if we may believe his Grace the Duke of Wellington, as the former scenes
of slaughter, were nevertheless severe enough: but we must not venture upon any ill-timed pleasantries
in presence of the disturbed King Arthur and the awful ghost of Gaffer Thumb.

We are thus carried at once into the supernatural, and here we find Cruikshank reigning supreme.
He has invented in his time a little comic pandemonium, peopled with the most droll, good-natured
fiends possible. We have before us Chamisso's "Peter Schlemihl," with Cruikshank's designs
translated into German, and gaining nothing by the change. The "Kinder und Hans-Maerchen" of
Grimm are likewise ornamented with a frontispiece copied from that one which appeared to the
amusing version of the English work. The books on Phrenology and Time have been imitated by
the same nation; and even in France, whither reputation travels slower than to any country
except China, we have seen copies of the works of George Cruikshank.

He in return has complimented the French by illustrating a couple of Lives of Napoleon, and
the "Life in Paris" before mentioned. He has also made designs for Victor Hugo's "Hans of Iceland."
Strange, wild etchings were those, on a strange, mad subject; not so good in our notion as
the designs for the German books, the peculiar humor of which latter seemed to suit the artist
exactly. There is a mixture of the awful and the ridiculous in these, which perpetually excites
and keeps awake the reader's attention; the German writer and the English artist seem to have
an entire faith in their subject. The reader, no doubt, remembers the awful passage in "Peter
Schlemihl," where the little gentleman purchases the shadow of that hero--"Have the kindness,
noble sir, to examine and try this bag." "He put his hand into his pocket, and drew thence
a tolerably large bag of Cordovan leather, to which a couple of thongs were fixed. I took it
from him, and immediately counted out ten gold pieces, and ten more, and ten more, and still
other ten, whereupon I held out my hand to him. Done, said I, it is a bargain; you shall have
my shadow for your bag. The bargain was concluded; he knelt down before me, and I saw him with
a wonderful neatness take my shadow from head to foot, lightly lift it up from the grass, roll
and fold it up neatly, and at last pocket it. He then rose up, bowed to me once more, and walked
away again, disappearing behind the rose bushes. I don't know, but I thought I heard him laughing
a little. I, however, kept fast hold of the bag. Everything around me was bright in the sun,
and as yet I gave no thought to what I had done."

This marvellous event, narrated by Peter with such a faithful, circumstantial detail, is painted
by Cruikshank in the most wonderful poetic way, with that happy mixture of the real and supernatural
that makes the narrative so curious, and like truth. Cruikshank has designed all this as if
he had a very serious belief in the story; he laughs, to be sure, but one fancies that he is
a little frightened in his heart, in spite of all his fun and joking.

The German tales we have mentioned before. "The Prince riding on the Fox," "Hans in Luck,"
"The Fiddler and his Goose," "Heads off," are all drawings which, albeit not before us now,
nor seen for ten years, remain indelibly fixed on the memory. "Heisst du etwa Rumpelstilzchen?"
There sits the Queen on her throne, surrounded by grinning beef-eaters, and little Rumpelstiltskin
stamps his foot through the floor in the excess of his tremendous despair. In one of these
German tales, if we remember rightly, there is an account of a little orphan who is carried
away by a pitying fairy for a term of seven years, and passing that period of sweet apprenticeship
among the imps and sprites of fairy-land. Has our artist been among the same company, and brought
back their portraits in his sketch-book? He is the only designer fairy-land has had. Callot's
imps, for all their strangeness, are only of the earth earthy. Fuseli's fairies belong to the
infernal regions; they are monstrous, lurid, and hideously melancholy. Mr. Cruikshank alone
has had a true insight into the character of the "little people." They are something like men
and women, and yet not flesh and blood; they are laughing and mischievous, but why we know
not. Mr. Cruikshank, however, has had some dream or the other, or else a natural mysterious
instinct (as the Seherinn of Prevorst had for beholding ghosts), or else some preternatural
fairy revelation, which has made him acquainted with the looks and ways of the fantastical
subjects of Oberon and Titania.

We have, unfortunately, no fairy portraits; but, on the other hand, can descend lower than
fairy-land, and have seen some fine specimens of devils. One has already been raised, and the
reader has seen him tempting a fat Dutch burgomaster, in an ancient gloomy market-place, such
as George Cruikshank can draw as well as Mr. Prout, Mr. Nash, or any man living. There is our
friend once more; our friend the burgomaster, in a highly excited state, and running as hard
as his great legs will carry him, with our mutual enemy at his tail.

What are the bets; will that long-legged bondholder of a devil come up with the honest Dutchman?
It serves him right: why did he put his name to stamped paper? And yet we should not wonder
if some lucky chance should turn up in the burgomaster's favor, and his infernal creditor lose
his labor; for one so proverbially cunning as yonder tall individual with the saucer eyes,
it must be confessed that he has been very often outwitted.

There is, for instance, the case of "The Gentleman in Black," which has been illustrated by
our artist. A young French gentleman, by name M. Desonge, who, having expended his patrimony
in a variety of taverns and gaming-houses, was one day pondering upon the exhausted state of
his finances, and utterly at a loss to think how he should provide means for future support,
exclaimed, very naturally, "What the devil shall I do?" He had no sooner spoken than a GENTLEMAN
IN BLACK made his appearance, whose authentic portrait Mr. Cruikshank has had the honor to
paint. This gentleman produced a black-edged book out of a black bag, some black-edged papers
tied up with black crape, and sitting down familiarly opposite M. Desonge, began conversing
with him on the state of his affairs.

It is needless to state what was the result of the interview. M. Desonge was induced by the
gentleman to sign his name to one of the black-edged papers, and found himself at the close
of the conversation to be possessed of an unlimited command of capital. This arrangement completed,
the Gentleman in Black posted (in an extraordinarily rapid manner) from Paris to London, there
found a young English merchant in exactly the same situation in which M. Desonge had been,
and concluded a bargain with the Briton of exactly the same nature.

The book goes on to relate how these young men spent the money so miraculously handed over
to them, and how both, when the period drew near that was to witness the performance of THEIR
part of the bargain, grew melancholy, wretched, nay, so absolutely dishonorable as to seek
for every means of breaking through their agreement. The Englishman living in a country where
the lawyers are more astute than any other lawyers in the world, took the advice of a Mr. Bagsby,
of Lyon's Inn; whose name, as we cannot find it in the "Law List," we presume to be fictitious.
Who could it be that was a match for the devil? Lord ---- very likely; we shall not give his
name, but let every reader of this Review fill up the blank according to his own fancy, and
on comparing it with the copy purchased by his neighbors, he will find that fifteen out of
twenty have written down the same honored name.

Well, the Gentleman in Black was anxious for the fulfilment of his bond. The parties met at
Mr. Bagsby's chambers to consult, the Black Gentleman foolishly thinking that he could act
as his own counsel, and fearing no attorney alive. But mark the superiority of British law,
and see how the black pettifogger was defeated.

Mr. Bagsby simply stated that he would take the case into Chancery, and his antagonist, utterly
humiliated and defeated, refused to move a step farther in the matter.

And now the French gentleman, M. Desonge, hearing of his friend's escape, became anxious to
be free from his own rash engagements. He employed the same counsel who had been successful
in the former instance, but the Gentleman in Black was a great deal wiser by this time, and
whether M. Desonge escaped, or whether he is now in that extensive place which is paved with
good intentions, we shall not say. Those who are anxious to know had better purchase the book
wherein all these interesting matters are duly set down. There is one more diabolical picture
in our budget, engraved by Mr. Thompson, the same dexterous artist who has rendered the former
diableries so well.

We may mention Mr. Thompson's name as among the first of the engravers to whom Cruikshank's
designs have been entrusted; and next to him (if we may be allowed to make such arbitrary distinctions)
we may place Mr. Williams; and the reader is not possibly aware of the immense difficulties
to be overcome in the rendering of these little sketches, which, traced by the designer in
a few hours, require weeks' labor from the engraver. Mr. Cruikshank has not been educated in
the regular schools of drawing (very luckily for him, as we think), and consequently has had
to make a manner for himself, which is quite unlike that of any other draftsman. There is nothing
in the least mechanical about it; to produce his particular effects he uses his own particular
lines, which are queer, free, fantastical, and must be followed in all their infinite twists
and vagaries by the careful tool of the engraver. Those three lovely heads, for instance, imagined
out of the rinds of lemons, are worth examining, not so much for the jovial humor and wonderful
variety of feature exhibited in these darling countenances as for the engraver's part of the
work. See the infinite delicate cross-lines and hatchings which he is obliged to render; let
him go, not a hair's breadth, but the hundredth part of a hair's breadth, beyond the given
line, and the FEELING of it is ruined. He receives these little dots and specks, and fantastical
quirks of the pencil, and cuts away with a little knife round each, not too much nor too little.
Antonio's pound of flesh did not puzzle the Jew so much; and so well does the engraver succeed
at last, that we never remember to have met with a single artist who did not vow that the wood-cutter
had utterly ruined his design.

Of Messrs. Thompson and Williams we have spoken as the first engravers in point of rank; however,
the regulations of professional precedence are certainly very difficult, and the rest of their
brethren we shall not endeavor to class. Why should the artists who executed the cuts of the
admirable "Three Courses" yield the pas to any one?

There, for instance, is an engraving by Mr. Landells, nearly as good in our opinion as the
very best woodcut that ever was made after Cruikshank, and curiously happy in rendering the
artist's peculiar manner: this cut does not come from the facetious publications which we have
consulted; but is a contribution by Mr. Cruikshank to an elaborate and splendid botanical work
upon the Orchidaceae of Mexico, by Mr. Bateman. Mr. Bateman despatched some extremely choice
roots of this valuable plant to a friend in England, who, on the arrival of the case, consigned
it to his gardener to unpack. A great deal of anxiety with regard to the contents was manifested
by all concerned, but on the lid of the box being removed, there issued from it three or four
fine specimens of the enormous Blatta beetle that had been preying upon the plants during the
voyage; against these the gardeners, the grooms, the porters, and the porters' children, issued
forth in arms, and this scene the artist has immortalized.

We have spoken of the admirable way in which Mr. Cruikshank has depicted Irish character and
Cockney character; English country character is quite as faithfully delineated in the person
of the stout porteress and her children, and of the "Chawbacon" with the shovel, on whose face
is written "Zummerzetsheer." Chawbacon appears in another plate, or else Chawbacon's brother.
He has come up to Lunnan, and is looking about him at raaces.

How distinct are these rustics from those whom we have just been examining! They hang about
the purlieus of the metropolis: Brook Green, Epsom, Greenwich, Ascot, Goodwood, are their haunts.
They visit London professionally once a year, and that is at the time of Bartholomew fair.
How one may speculate upon the different degrees of rascality, as exhibited in each face of
the thimblerigging trio, and form little histories for these worthies, charming Newgate romances,
such as have been of late the fashion! Is any man so blind that he cannot see the exact face
that is writhing under the thhnblerigged hero's hat? Like Timanthes of old, our artist expresses
great passions without the aid of the human countenance. There is another specimen--a street
row of inebriated bottles. Is there any need of having a face after this? "Come on!" says Claret-bottle,
a dashing, genteel fellow, with his hat on one ear--"Come on! has any man a mind to tap me?"
Claret-bottle is a little screwed (as one may see by his legs), but full of gayety and courage;
not so that stout, apoplectic Bottle-of-rum, who has staggered against the wall, and has his
hand upon his liver: the fellow hurts himself with smoking, that is clear, and is as sick as
sick can be. See, Port is making away from the storm, and Double X is as flat as ditch-water.
Against these, awful in their white robes, the sober watchmen come.

Our artist then can cover up faces, and yet show them quite clearly, as in the thimblerig group;
or he can do without faces altogether; or he can, at a pinch, provide a countenance for a gentleman
out of any given object--a beautiful Irish physiognomy being moulded upon a keg of whiskey;
and a jolly English countenance frothing out of a pot of ale (the spirit of brave Toby Philpot
come back to reanimate his clay); while in a fungus may be recognized the physiognomy of a
mushroom peer. Finally, if he is at a loss, he can make a living head, body, and legs out of
steel or tortoise-shell, as in the case of the vivacious pair of spectacles that are jockeying
the nose of Caddy Cuddle.

Of late years Mr. Cruikshank has busied himself very much with steel engraving, and the consequences
of that lucky invention have been, that his plates are now sold by thousands, where they could
only be produced by hundreds before. He has made many a bookseller's and author's fortune (we
trust that in so doing he may not have neglected his own). Twelve admirable plates, furnished
yearly to that facetious little publication, the Comic Almanac, have gained for it a sale,
as we hear, of nearly twenty thousand copies. The idea of the work was novel; there was, in
the first number especially, a great deal of comic power, and Cruikshank's designs were so
admirable that the Almanac at once became a vast favorite with the public, and has so remained
ever since.

