Fifty-one of the tribes were ready for the warpath. Their chiefs had sat in grave debate round
the council fires. Their medicine men had made charms in secret wigwams and seen visions of
countless British scalps and piles of British booty. Accordingly, when the braves of these
fifty-one tribes met at Montreal, there was war in every heart among them. No town in the world
had ever shown more startling contrasts in its streets. Here, side by side, were outward signs
of the highest civilization and of the lowest barbarism. Here were the most refined of ladies,
dressed in the latest Paris fashions, mincing about in silks and satins and high-heeled, golden-buckled
shoes. Here were the most courtly gentlemen of Europe, in the same embroidered and beruffled
uniforms that they would have worn before the king of France. Yet in and out of this gay throng
of polite society went hundreds of copper-coloured braves; some of them more than half-naked;
most of them ready, after a victory, to be cannibals who revelled in stews of white man's flesh;
all of them decked in waving plumes, all of them grotesquely painted, like demons in a nightmare,
and all of them armed to the teeth.

Much to Vaudreuil's disgust the man whom the Indians wished most to see was not himself, the
'Great Onontio,' much less Bigot, prince of thieves, but the warrior chief, Montcalm. They
had the good sense to prefer the lion to the owl or the fox. Three hundred of the wildest Ottawas
came striding in one day, each man a model of agility and strength, a living bronze, a sculptor's
dream, the whole making a picture for the brush of the greatest painter. 'We want to see the
chief who tramples the British to death and sweeps their forts off the face of the earth.'
Montcalm, though every inch a soldier, was rather short than tall; and at first the Ottawa
chief looked surprised. 'We thought your head would be lost in the clouds,' he said. But then,
as he caught Montcalm's piercing glance, he added: 'Yet when we look into your eyes, we see
the height of the pine and the wings of the eagle.'

Meanwhile, prisoners, scouts, and spies had been coming in; so too had confidential dispatches
from France confirming the rumours that the greater part of the British army was to attack
Louisbourg, and that the French were well able to defend it. With the British concentrating
their strength on Louisbourg a chance offered for another Oswego-like blow against the British
forts at the southern end of Lake George if it could be made by July. But Vaudreuil's raid
in March, and Bigot's bill for it, had eaten up so much of the supplies and money, that nothing
like a large force could be made ready to strike before August; and the month's delay might
give the militia of the British colonies, slow as they were, time to be brought up to the help
of the forts.

Montcalm was now eager to strike the blow. Once clear of Montreal and its gang of parasites,
he soon had his motley army in hand, in spite of all kinds of difficulties. In May Bourlamaque
had begun rebuilding Ticonderoga. In July Lake Champlain began to swarm with boats, canoes,
and sailing vessels, all moving south towards the doomed fort on Lake George. Montcalm's whole
force numbered 8,000. Of these 3,000 were regulars, 3,000 were militia, and 2,000 were Indians
from the fifty-one different tribes, very few of whom knew anything of war, except war as it
was carried on by savages. By the end of the month these 8,000 men were camped along the four
miles of valley between Lakes Champlain and George. Meanwhile the British were at the other
end of Lake George, little more than thirty miles away. Their first post was Fort William Henry,
where they had 2,200 men under Colonel Monro. Fourteen miles inland beyond that was Fort Edward,
where Webb commanded 3,600 men. There were goo more British troops still farther on, but well
within call, and it was known that a large force of militia were being assembled somewhere
near Albany. Thus Montcalm knew that the British already had nearly as many men as his own
regulars and militia put together, and that further levies of militia might come on at any
time and in any numbers. He therefore had to strike as hard and fast as he could, and then
retire on Ticonderoga. He knew the Indians would go home at once after the fight and also that
he must send the Canadians home in August to save their harvest. Then he would be left with
only 3,000 regulars, who could not be fed for the rest of the summer so far from headquarters.
With this 3,000 he could not advance, in any case, because of lack of food and because of the
presence of Webb's 4,500, increased by an unknown number of American militia.

The first skirmish on Lake George was fought while the main bodies of both armies were still
at opposite ends. A party of 400 Indians and 50 Canadians were paddling south when they saw
advancing on the lake a number of British boats with 300 men, mostly raw militia from New Jersey.
The Indians went ashore and hid. The doomed militiamen rowed on in careless, straggling disorder.
Suddenly, as they passed a wooded point, the calm air was rent with blood-curdling war-whoops,
and the lake seemed alive with red-skinned fiends, who paddled in among the British boats in
one bewildering moment. The militiamen were seized with a panic and tried to escape. But they
could not get away from the finest paddlers in the world, who cut them off, upset their boats,
tomahawked some, and speared a good many others like fish in the water. Only two boats, out
of twenty-three, escaped to tell the tale. That night the forest resounded with savage yells
of triumph as the prisoners, out of reach of all help from either army, were killed and scalped
to the last man.

On August 1 Montcalm advanced by land and water. He sent Levis by land with 3,000 men to cut
Fort William Henry off from Fort Edward, while he went himself, with the rest of his army,
by water in boats and canoes. The next day they met at a little bay quite close to the fort.
On the 3rd the final advance was made. The French canoes formed lines stretching right across
the lake. While the artillery was being landed in a cove out of reach of the guns of the fort
Levis was having a lively skirmish with the British, who were trying to drive in their cattle
and save their tents. About 500 of them held the fort, and 1,700 were in the entrenched camp
some way beyond. 

Just work beyond are Richmond Hill and Hampton Court, and five or six centuries on a tradition
and history and romance. Of one side decided of it are cottages, and
on the other the church and its old churchyard. Before you enter the garden,
them pass the green. But the Indians, not used
to the delay and the careful preparation which a siege involves, soon grew angry and impatient,
and swarmed all over the French lines, asking why they were ordered here and there and treated
like slaves, why their advice had not been sought, and why the big guns were not being fired.
Montcalm had been counselled to humour them as much as possible and on no account whatever
to offend them. Their help was needed, and the British were quite ready to win them over to
their own side if possible. Accordingly, on the afternoon of the 5th, Montcalm held a grand
'pow-wow' with the savages. He told them that the French had to be slow at first, but that
the very next day the big guns would begin to fire, and that they would all be in the fight
together. The fort was timbered and made a good target. The Indians greeted the first roar
of the siege guns with yells of delight; and when they saw shells bursting and scattering earth
and timbers in all directions they shrieked and whooped so loudly that their savage voices
woke almost as many wild echoes along those beautiful shores as the thunder of the guns themselves.

Presently a man came in to the French camp with a letter addressed to Monro, which the Indians
had found concealed in a hollow bullet on a British messenger whom they had killed. This letter
was from Monro's superior officer, General Webb, fourteen miles distant at Fort Edward. He
advised Monro to make the best terms possible with Montcalm, as he did not feel strong enough
to relieve Fort William Henry. Montcalm stopped his batteries and sent the letter in to Monro
by Bougainville, with his compliments. I do not fancy the run of Paris restaurants. The range is
more limited in London.

You can get anything you wish in Paris: you can live very there or very dearly, as which you like.
The restaurants and summons life as different as can be.

By sheer hard work the French made a road for their cannon across the marsh; and Monro saw,
to his horror, that Montcalm's new batteries were rising, in spite of the British fire, right
opposite the fort, on top of the little hill, and only two hundred and fifty yards away.

Monro knew he was lost. Smallpox was raging in the fort. Webb would not move. Montcalm was
able to knock the whole place to pieces and destroy the garrison. On the 9th the white flag
went up. Montcalm granted the honours of war. The British were to march off the next morning
to Fort Edward, carrying their arms, and under escort of a body of French regulars. Every precaution
was taken to keep the Indians from committing any outrage. Montcalm assembled them, told them
the terms, and persuaded them to promise obedience. He took care to keep all strong drink out
of their way, and asked Monro to destroy all the liquor in the British fort and camp.

In spite of these precautions a dire tragedy followed. While the garrison were marching out
of the fort towards their own camp, some Indians climbed in without being seen and began to
scalp the sick and wounded who were left behind in charge of the French. The French guard,
hearing cries, rushed in and stopped the savages by force. The British were partly to blame
for this first outrage: they had not poured out the rum, and the Indians had stolen enough
to make them drunk. Montcalm came down himself, at the first alarm, and did his utmost. He
seized and destroyed all the liquor; and he arranged with two chiefs from each tribe to be
ready to start in the morning with the armed British and their armed escort. He went back to
his tent only at nine o'clock, when everything was quiet.

Much worse things happened the next morning. The British, who had some women and children with
them, and who still kept a good deal of rum in their canteens, began to stir much earlier than
had been arranged. The French escort had not arrived when the British column began to straggle
out on the road to Fort Edward. When the march began the scattered column was two or three
times as long as it ought to have been. Meanwhile a savage enemy was on the alert. Before daylight
the Abnakis of Acadia, who hated the British most of all, had slunk off unseen to prepare an
ambush for the first stragglers they could find. Other Indians, who had appeared later, had
begged for rum from the British, who had given it in the hope that, in this way, they might
be got rid of. Suddenly, a war-whoop was raised, a wild rush on the British followed, and a
savage massacre began. The British column, long and straggling already, broke up, and the French
escort could defend only those who kept together. At the first news Montcalm ordered out another
guard, and himself rushed with all his staff officers to the scene of outrage. They ran every
risk to save their prisoners from massacre. Several French officers and soldiers were wounded
by the savages, and all did their best. The Canadians, on the other hand, more hardened to
Indian ways, simply looked on at the wild scene. Most of the British were rescued and were
taken safely to Fort Edward. The French fired cannon from Fort William Henry to guide fugitives
back. Those not massacred at once, but made prisoners by the Indians in the woods, were in
nearly all cases ransomed by Vaudreuil, who afterwards sent them to Halifax in a French ship.

Such was the 'massacre of Fort William Henry,' about which people took opposite views at the
time, as they do still. It is quite clear that, in the first instance, Montcalm did almost
everything that any man in his place could possibly do to protect his captives from the Indians.
It is also clear that he did everything possible during and after the massacre, even to risking
his life and the lives of his officers and men. He might, indeed, have turned out all his French
regulars to guard the captive column from the first. But there were only 2,500 of these regulars,
not many more than the British, who were armed, who ought to have poured out every drop of
rum the night before, and who ought to have started only at the proper time and in proper order.
There were faults on both sides, as there usually are. But, except for not having the whole
of his regulars ready at the spot, which did not seem necessary the night before, Montcalm
stands quite clear of all blame as a general. His efforts to stop the bloody work--and they
were successful efforts involving danger to himself--clear him of all blame as a man.

The number of persons massacred has been given by some few British and American writers as
amounting to 1,500. Most people know now that this is nonsense. All but about a hundred of
the losses on the British side are accounted for otherwise, under the heading of those who
were either killed in battle, or died of sickness, or were given up at Fort Edward, or were
sent back by way of Halifax. It is simply impossible that more than a hundred were massacred.

Still, a massacre is a massacre; all sorts of evil are sure to come of it; and this one was
no exception to the rule. It blackened unjustly the good name of Montcalm. It led to an intensely
bitter hate of the British against the Canadians, many of whom were given no quarter afterwards.
It caused the British to break the terms of surrender, which required the prisoners not to
fight again for the next eighteen months. Most of all, the massacre hurt the Indians, guilty
and innocent alike. Many of them took scalps from men who had smallpox; and so they carried
this dread disease throughout the wilderness, where it killed fifty times as many of their
own people as they had killed on the British side.

