The town of Courcy--for the place claimed to rank as a town--was in many particulars like the
castle. It was built of dingy-red brick--almost more brown than red--and was solid, dull-looking,
ugly and comfortable. It consisted of four streets, which were formed by two roads crossing
each other, making at the point of junction a centre for the town. Here stood the Red Lion;
had it been called the brown lion, the nomenclature would have been more strictly correct;
and here, in the old days of coaching, some life had been wont to stir itself at those hours
in the day and night when the Freetraders, Tallyhoes, and Royal Mails changed their horses.
But now there was a railway station a mile and a half distant, and the moving life of the town
of Courcy was confined to the Red Lion omnibus, which seemed to pass its entire time in going
up and down between the town and the station, quite unembarrassed by any great weight of passengers.

There were, so said the Courcyites when away from Courcy, excellent shops in the place; but
they were not the less accustomed, when at home among themselves, to complain to each other
of the vile extortion with which they were treated by their neighbours. The ironmonger, therefore,
though he loudly asserted that he could beat Bristol in the quality of his wares in one direction,
and undersell Gloucester in another, bought his tea and sugar on the sly in one of those larger
towns; and the grocer, on the other hand, equally distrusted the pots and pans of home production.
Trade, therefore, at Courcy, had not thriven since the railway had opened: and, indeed, had
any patient inquirer stood at the cross through one entire day, counting customers who entered
the neighbouring shops, he might well have wondered that any shops in Courcy could be kept open.

And how changed has been the bustle of that once noisy inn to the present death-like silence
of its green courtyard! There, a lame ostler crawls about with his hands thrust into the capacious
pockets of his jacket, feeding on memory. That weary pair of omnibus jades, and three sorry
posters, are all that now grace those stables where horses used to be stalled in close contiguity
by the dozen; where twenty grains apiece, abstracted from every feed of oats consumed during
the day, would have afforded a daily quart to the lucky pilferer.

Come, my friend, and discourse with me. Let us know what are thy ideas of the inestimable benefits
which science has conferred on us in these, our latter days. How dost thou, among others, appreciate
railways and the power of steam, telegraphs, telegrams, and our new expresses? But indifferently,
you say. "Time was I've zeed vifteen pair o' 'osses go out of this 'ere yard in vour-and-twenty
hour; and now there be'ant vifteen, no, not ten, in vour-and-twenty days! There was the duik--not
this 'un; he be'ant no gude; but this 'un's vather--why, when he'd come down the road, the
cattle did be a-going, vour days an eend. Here'd be the tooter and the young gen'lmen, and
the governess and the young leddies, and then the servants--they'd be al'ays the grandest folk
of all--and then the duik and the doochess--Lord love 'ee, zur; the money did fly in them days!
But now--" and the feeling of scorn and contempt which the lame ostler was enabled by his native
talent to throw into the word "now," was quite as eloquent against the power of steam as anything
that has been spoken at dinners, or written in pamphlets by the keenest admirers of latter-day
lights.

"Why, luke at this 'ere town," continued he of the sieve, "the grass be a-growing in the very
streets;--that can't be no gude. Why, luke 'ee here, zur; I do be a-standing at this 'ere gateway,
just this way, hour arter hour, and my heyes is hopen mostly;--I zees who's a-coming and who's
a-going. Nobody's a-coming and nobody's a-going; that can't be no gude. Luke at that there
homnibus; why, darn me--" and now, in his eloquence at this peculiar point, my friend became
more loud and powerful than ever--"why, darn me, if maister harns enough with that there bus
to put hiron on them 'osses' feet, I'll--be--blowed!" And as he uttered this hypothetical denunciation
on himself he spoke very slowly, bringing out every word as it were separately, and lowering
himself at his knees at every sound, moving at the same time his right hand up and down. When
he had finished, he fixed his eyes upon the ground, pointing downwards, as if there was to
be the site of his doom if the curse that he had called down upon himself should ever come
to pass; and then, waiting no further converse, he hobbled away, melancholy, to his deserted
stables.

Oh, my friend! my poor lame friend! it will avail nothing to tell thee of Liverpool and Manchester;
of the glories of Glasgow, with her flourishing banks; of London, with its third millions of
inhabitants; of the great things which commerce is doing for this nation of thine! What is
commerce to thee, unless it be commerce in posting on that worn-out, all but useless great
western turnpike-road? There is nothing left for thee but to be carted away as rubbish--for
thee and for many of us in these now prosperous days; oh, my melancholy, care-ridden friend!

Courcy Castle was certainly a dull place to look at, and Frank, in his former visits, had found
that the appearance did not belie the reality. He had been but little there when the earl had
been at Courcy; and as he had always felt from his childhood a peculiar distaste to the governance
of his aunt the countess, this perhaps may have added to his feeling of dislike. Now, however,
the castle was to be fuller than he had ever before known it; the earl was to be at home; there
was some talk of the Duke of Omnium coming for a day or two, though that seemed doubtful; there
was some faint doubt of Lord Porlock; Mr Moffat, intent on the coming election--and also, let
us hope, on his coming bliss--was to be one of the guests; and there was also to be the great
Miss Dunstable.

Frank, however, found that those grandees were not expected quite immediately. "I might go
back to Greshamsbury for three or four days as she is not to be here," he said naïvely to his
aunt, expressing, with tolerable perspicuity, his feeling, that he regarded his visit to Courcy
Castle quite as a matter of business. But the countess would hear of no such arrangement. Now
that she had got him, she was not going to let him fall back into the perils of Miss Thorne's
intrigues, or even of Miss Thorne's propriety. "It is quite essential," she said, "that you
should be here a few days before her, so that she may see that you are at home." Frank did
not understand the reasoning; but he felt himself unable to rebel, and he therefore, remained
there, comforting himself, as best he might, with the eloquence of the Honourable George, and
the sporting humours of the Honourable John.

Mr Moffat's was the earliest arrival of any importance. Frank had not hitherto made the acquaintance
of his future brother-in-law, and there was, therefore, some little interest in the first interview.
Mr Moffat was shown into the drawing-room before the ladies had gone up to dress, and it so
happened that Frank was there also. As no one else was in the room but his sister and two of
his cousins, he had expected to see the lovers rush into each other's arms. But Mr Moffat restrained
his ardour, and Miss Gresham seemed contented that he should do so.

He was a nice, dapper man, rather above the middle height, and good-looking enough had he had
a little more expression in his face. He had dark hair, very nicely brushed, small black whiskers,
and a small black moustache. His boots were excellently well made, and his hands were very
white. He simpered gently as he took hold of Augusta's fingers, and expressed a hope that she
had been quite well since last he had the pleasure of seeing her. Then he touched the hands
of the Lady Rosina and the Lady Margaretta.

"Mr Moffat, allow me to introduce you to my brother?"

"Most happy, I'm sure," said Mr Moffat, again putting out his hand, and allowing it to slip
through Frank's grasp, as he spoke in a pretty, mincing voice: "Lady Arabella quite well?--and
your father, and sisters? Very warm isn't it?--quite hot in town, I do assure you."

"I hope Augusta likes him," said Frank to himself, arguing on the subject exactly as his father
had done; "but for an engaged lover he seems to me to have a very queer way with him." Frank,
poor fellow! who was of a coarser mould, would, under such circumstances, have been all for
kissing--sometimes, indeed, even under other circumstances.

Mr Moffat did not do much towards improving the conviviality of the castle. He was, of course,
a good deal intent upon his coming election, and spent much of his time with Mr Nearthewinde,
the celebrated parliamentary agent. It behoved him to be a good deal at Barchester, canvassing
the electors and undermining, by Mr Nearthewinde's aid, the mines for blowing him out of his
seat, which were daily being contrived by Mr Closerstil, on behalf of Sir Roger. The battle
was to be fought on the internecine principle, no quarter being given or taken on either side;
and of course this gave Mr Moffat as much as he knew how to do.

Mr Closerstil was well known to be the sharpest man at his business in all England, unless
the palm should be given to his great rival Mr Nearthewinde; and in this instance he was to
be assisted in the battle by a very clever young barrister, Mr Romer, who was an admirer of
Sir Roger's career in life. Some people in Barchester, when they saw Sir Roger, Closerstil
and Mr Romer saunter down the High Street, arm in arm, declared that it was all up with poor
Moffat; but others, in whose head the bump of veneration was strongly pronounced, whispered
to each other that great shibboleth--the name of the Duke of Omnium--and mildly asserted it
to be impossible that the duke's nominee should be thrown out.

Our poor friend the squire did not take much interest in the matter, except in so far that
he liked his son-in-law to be in Parliament. Both the candidates were in his eye equally wrong
in their opinions. He had long since recanted those errors of his early youth, which had cost
him his seat for the county, and had abjured the de Courcy politics. He was staunch enough
as a Tory now that his being so would no longer be of the slightest use to him; but the Duke
of Omnium, and Lord de Courcy, and Mr Moffat were all Whigs; Whigs, however, differing altogether
in politics from Sir Roger, who belonged to the Manchester school, and whose pretensions, through
some of those inscrutable twists in modern politics which are quite unintelligible to the minds
of ordinary men outside the circle, were on this occasion secretly favoured by the high Conservative
party.

How Mr Moffat, who had been brought into the political world by Lord de Courcy, obtained all
the weight of the duke's interest I never could exactly learn. For the duke and the earl did
not generally act as twin-brothers on such occasions.

There is a great difference in Whigs. Lord de Courcy was a Court Whig, following the fortunes,
and enjoying, when he could get it, the sunshine of the throne. He was a sojourner at Windsor,
and a visitor at Balmoral. He delighted in gold sticks, and was never so happy as when holding
some cap of maintenance or spur of precedence with due dignity and acknowledged grace in the
presence of all the Court. His means had been somewhat embarrassed by early extravagance; and,
therefore, as it was to his taste to shine, it suited him to shine at the cost of the Court
rather than at his own.

The Duke of Omnium was a Whig of a very different calibre. He rarely went near the presence
of majesty, and when he did do so, he did it merely as a disagreeable duty incident to his
position. He was very willing that the Queen should be queen so long as he was allowed to be
Duke of Omnium. Nor had he begrudged Prince Albert any of his honours till he was called Prince
Consort. Then, indeed, he had, to his own intimate friends, made some remark in three words,
not flattering to the discretion of the Prime Minister. The Queen might be queen so long as
he was Duke of Omnium. Their revenues were about the same, with the exception, that the duke's
were his own, and he could do what he liked with them. This remembrance did not unfrequently
present itself to the duke's mind. In person, he was a plain, thin man, tall, but undistinguished
in appearance, except that there was a gleam of pride in his eye which seemed every moment
to be saying, "I am the Duke of Omnium." He was unmarried, and, if report said true, a great
debauchee; but if so he had always kept his debaucheries decently away from the eyes of the
world, and was not, therefore, open to that loud condemnation which should fall like a hailstorm
round the ears of some more open sinners.

Why these two mighty nobles put their heads together in order that the tailor's son should
represent Barchester in Parliament, I cannot explain. Mr Moffat, was, as has been said, Lord
de Courcy's friend; and it may be that Lord de Courcy was able to repay the duke for his kindness,
as touching Barchester, with some little assistance in the county representation.

The next arrival was that of the Bishop of Barchester; a meek, good, worthy man, much attached
to his wife, and somewhat addicted to his ease. She, apparently, was made in a different mould,
and by her energy and diligence atoned for any want in those qualities which might be observed
in the bishop himself. When asked his opinion, his lordship would generally reply by saying--"Mrs
Proudie and I think so and so." But before that opinion was given, Mrs Proudie would take up
the tale, and she, in her more concise manner, was not wont to quote the bishop as having at
all assisted in the consideration of the subject. It was well known in Barsetshire that no
married pair consorted more closely or more tenderly together; and the example of such conjugal
affection among persons in the upper classes is worth mentioning, as it is believed by those
below them, and too often with truth, that the sweet bliss of connubial reciprocity is not
so common as it should be among the magnates of the earth.

But the arrival even of the bishop and his wife did not make the place cheerful to Frank Gresham,
and he began to long for Miss Dunstable, in order that he might have something to do. He could
not get on at all with Mr Moffat. He had expected that the man would at once have called him
Frank, and that he would have called the man Gustavus; but they did not even get beyond Mr
Moffat and Mr Gresham. "Very hot in Barchester to-day, very," was the nearest approach to conversation
which Frank could attain with him; and as far as he, Frank, could see, Augusta never got much
beyond it. There might be tête-à-tête meetings between them, but, if so, Frank could not detect
when they took place; and so, opening his heart at last to the Honourable George, for the want
of a better confidant, he expressed his opinion that his future brother-in-law was a muff.

"A muff--I believe you too. What do you think now? I have been with him and Nearthewinde in
Barchester these three days past, looking up the electors' wives and daughters, and that kind
of thing."

"I say, if there is any fun in it you might as well take me with you."

"Oh, there is not much fun; they are mostly so slobbered and dirty. A sharp fellow in Nearthewinde,
and knows what he is about well."

"Does he look up the wives and daughters too?"

"Oh, he goes on every tack, just as it's wanted. But there was Moffat, yesterday, in a room
behind the milliner's shop near Cuthbert's Gate; I was with him. The woman's husband is one
of the choristers and an elector, you know, and Moffat went to look for his vote. Now, there
was no one there when we got there but the three young women, the wife, that is, and her two
girls--very pretty women they are too."

"I say, George, I'll go and get the chorister's vote for Moffat; I ought to do it as he's to
be my brother-in-law."

"But what do you think Moffat said to the women?"

"Can't guess--he didn't kiss any of them, did he?"

"Kiss any of them? No; but he begged to give them his positive assurance as a gentleman, that
if he was returned to Parliament he would vote for an extension of the franchise, and the admission
of the Jews into Parliament."

"Well, he is a muff!" said Frank.

CHAPTER XVI

Miss Dunstable

At last the great Miss Dunstable came. Frank, when he heard that the heiress had arrived, felt
some slight palpitation at his heart. He had not the remotest idea in the world of marrying
her; indeed, during the last week past, absence had so heightened his love for Mary Thorne
that he was more than ever resolved that he would never marry any one but her. He knew that
he had made her a formal offer for her hand, and that it behoved him to keep to it, let the
charms of Miss Dunstable be what they might; but, nevertheless, he was prepared to go through
a certain amount of courtship, in obedience to his aunt's behests, and he felt a little nervous
at being brought up in that way, face to face, to do battle with two hundred thousand pounds.

"Miss Dunstable has arrived," said his aunt to him, with great complacency, on his return from
an electioneering visit to the beauties of Barchester which he made with his cousin George
on the day after the conversation which was repeated at the end of the last chapter. "She has
arrived, and is looking remarkably well; she has quite a distingué air, and will grace any
circle to which she may be introduced. I will introduce you before dinner, and you can take
her out."

"I couldn't propose to her to-night, I suppose?" said Frank, maliciously.

"Don't talk nonsense, Frank," said the countess, angrily. "I am doing what I can for you, and
taking on an infinity of trouble to endeavour to place you in an independent position; and
now you talk nonsense to me."

Frank muttered some sort of apology, and then went to prepare himself for the encounter.

Miss Dunstable, though she had come by train, had brought with her her own carriage, her own
horses, her own coachman and footman, and her own maid, of course. She had also brought with
her half a score of trunks, full of wearing apparel; some of them nearly as rich as that wonderful
box which was stolen a short time since from the top of a cab. But she brought all these things,
not in the least because she wanted them herself, but because she had been instructed to do so.

Frank was a little more than ordinarily careful in dressing. He spoilt a couple of white neckties
before he was satisfied, and was rather fastidious as the set of his hair. There was not much
of the dandy about him in the ordinary meaning of the word; but he felt that it was incumbent
on him to look his best, seeing what it was expected that he should now do. He certainly did
not mean to marry Miss Dunstable; but as he was to have a flirtation with her, it was well
that he should do so under the best possible auspices.

When he entered the drawing-room he perceived at once that the lady was there. She was seated
between the countess and Mrs Proudie; and mammon, in her person, was receiving worship from
the temporalities and spiritualities of the land. He tried to look unconcerned, and remained
in the farther part of the room, talking with some of his cousins; but he could not keep his
eye off the future possible Mrs Frank Gresham; and it seemed as though she was as much constrained
to scrutinise him as he felt to scrutinise her.

Lady de Courcy had declared that she was looking extremely well, and had particularly alluded
to her distingué appearance. Frank at once felt that he could not altogether go along with
his aunt in this opinion. Miss Dunstable might be very well; but her style of beauty was one
which did not quite meet with his warmest admiration.

In age she was about thirty; but Frank, who was no great judge in these matters, and who was
accustomed to have very young girls round him, at once put her down as being ten years older.
She had a very high colour, very red cheeks, a large mouth, big white teeth, a broad nose,
and bright, small, black eyes. Her hair also was black and bright, but very crisp, and strong,
and was combed close round her face in small crisp black ringlets. Since she had been brought
out into the fashionable world some one of her instructors in fashion had given her to understand
that curls were not the thing. "They'll always pass muster," Miss Dunstable had replied, "when
they are done up with bank-notes." It may therefore be presumed that Miss Dunstable had a will
of her own.

"Frank," said the countess, in the most natural and unpremeditated way, as soon as she caught
her nephew's eye, "come here. I want to introduce you to Miss Dunstable." The introduction
was then made. "Mrs Proudie, would you excuse me? I must positively go and say a few words
to Mrs Barlow, or the poor woman will feel herself huffed;" and, so saying, she moved off,
leaving the coast clear for Master Frank.

He of course slipped into his aunt's place, and expressed a hope that Miss Dunstable was not
fatigued by her journey.

"Fatigued!" said she, in a voice rather loud, but very good-humoured, and not altogether unpleasing;
"I am not to be fatigued by such a thing as that. Why, in May we came through all the way from
Rome to Paris without sleeping--that is, without sleeping in a bed--and we were upset three
times out of the sledges coming over the Simplon. It was such fun! Why, I wasn't to say tired
even then."

"All the way from Rome to Paris!" said Mrs Proudie--in a tone of astonishment, meant to flatter
the heiress--"and what made you in such a hurry?"

"Something about money matters," said Miss Dunstable, speaking rather louder than usual. "Something
to do with the ointment. I was selling the business just then."

Mrs Proudie bowed, and immediately changed the conversation. "Idolatry is, I believe, more
rampant than ever in Rome," said she; "and I fear there is no such thing at all as Sabbath
observance."

"Oh, not in the least," said Miss Dunstable, with rather a joyous air; "Sundays and week-days
are all the same there."

"How very frightful!" said Mrs Proudie.

"But it's a delicious place. I do like Rome, I must say. And as for the Pope, if he wasn't
quite so fat he would be the nicest old fellow in the world. Have you been in Rome, Mrs Proudie?"

Mrs Proudie sighed as she replied in the negative, and declared her belief that danger was
to be apprehended from such visits.

"Oh!--ah!--the malaria--of course--yes; if you go at the wrong time; but nobody is such a fool
as that now."

"I was thinking of the soul, Miss Dunstable," said the lady-bishop, in her peculiar, grave
tone. "A place where there are no Sabbath observances--"

"And have you been in Rome, Mr Gresham?" said the young lady, turning almost abruptly round
to Frank, and giving a somewhat uncivilly cold shoulder to Mrs Proudie's exhortation. She,
poor lady, was forced to finish her speech to the Honourable George, who was standing near
to her. He having an idea that bishops and all their belongings, like other things appertaining
to religion, should, if possible, be avoided; but if that were not possible, should be treated
with much assumed gravity, immediately put on a long face, and remarked that--"it was a deuced
shame: for his part he always liked to see people go quiet on Sundays. The parsons had only
one day out of seven, and he thought they were fully entitled to that." Satisfied with which,
or not satisfied, Mrs Proudie had to remain silent till dinner-time.

"No," said Frank; "I never was in Rome. I was in Paris once, and that's all." And then, feeling
a not unnatural anxiety as to the present state of Miss Dunstable's worldly concerns, he took
an opportunity of falling back on that part of the conversation which Mrs Proudie had exercised
so much tact in avoiding.

"And was it sold?" said he.

"Sold! what sold?"

"You were saying about the business--that you came back without going to bed because of selling
the business."

"Oh!--the ointment. No; it was not sold. After all, the affair did not come off, and I might
have remained and had another roll in the snow. Wasn't it a pity?"

"So," said Frank to himself, "if I should do it, I should be owner of the ointment of Lebanon:
how odd!" And then he gave her his arm and handed her down to dinner.

He certainly found that the dinner was less dull than any other he had sat down to at Courcy
Castle. He did not fancy that he should ever fall in love with Miss Dunstable; but she certainly
was an agreeable companion. She told him of her tour, and the fun she had in her journeys;
how she took a physician with her for the benefit of her health, whom she generally was forced
to nurse; of the trouble it was to her to look after and wait upon her numerous servants; of
the tricks she played to bamboozle people who came to stare at her; and, lastly, she told him
of a lover who followed her from country to country, and was now in hot pursuit of her, having
arrived in London the evening before she left.

"A lover?" said Frank, somewhat startled by the suddenness of the confidence.

"A lover--yes--Mr Gresham; why should I not have a lover?"

"Oh!--no--of course not. I dare say you have a good many."

"Only three or four, upon my word; that is, only three or four that I favour. One is not bound
to reckon the others, you know."

"No, they'd be too numerous. And so you have three whom you favour, Miss Dunstable;" and Frank
sighed, as though he intended to say that the number was too many for his peace of mind.

"Is not that quite enough? But of course I change them sometimes;" and she smiled on him very
good-naturedly. "It would be very dull if I were always to keep the same."

"Very dull indeed," said Frank, who did not quite know what to say.

"Do you think the countess would mind my having one or two of them here if I were to ask her?"

"I am quite sure she would," said Frank, very briskly. "She would not approve of it at all;
nor should I."

"You--why, what have you to do with it?"

"A great deal--so much so that I positively forbid it; but, Miss Dunstable--"

"Well, Mr Gresham?"

"We will contrive to make up for the deficiency as well as possible, if you will permit us
to do so. Now for myself--"

"Well, for yourself?"

At this moment the countess gleamed her accomplished eye round the table, and Miss Dunstable
rose from her chair as Frank was preparing his attack, and accompanied the other ladies into
the drawing-room.

His aunt, as she passed him, touched his arm lightly with her fan, so lightly that the action
was perceived by no one else. But Frank well understood the meaning of the touch, and appreciated
the approbation which it conveyed. He merely blushed, however, at his own dissimulation; for
he felt more certain that ever that he would never marry Miss Dunstable, and he felt nearly
equally sure that Miss Dunstable would never marry him.

Lord de Courcy was now at home; but his presence did not add much hilarity to the claret-cup.
The young men, however, were very keen about the election, and Mr Nearthewinde, who was one
of the party, was full of the most sanguine hopes.

"I have done one good at any rate," said Frank; "I have secured the chorister's vote."

"What! Bagley?" said Nearthewinde. "The fellow kept out of my way, and I couldn't see him."

"I haven't exactly seen him," said Frank; "but I've got his vote all the same."

"What! by a letter?" said Mr Moffat.

"No, not by letter," said Frank, speaking rather low as he looked at the bishop and the earl;
"I got a promise from his wife: I think he's a little in the henpecked line."

"Ha--ha--ha!" laughed the good bishop, who, in spite of Frank's modulation of voice, had overheard
what had passed. "Is that the way you manage electioneering matters in our cathedral city?
Ha--ha--ha!" The idea of one of his choristers being in the henpecked line was very amusing
to the bishop.

"Oh, I got a distinct promise," said Frank, in his pride; and then added incautiously, "but
I had to order bonnets for the whole family."

"Hush-h-h-h-h!" said Mr Nearthewinde, absolutely flabbergasted by such imprudence on the part
of one of his client's friends. "I am quite sure that your order had no effect, and was intended
to have no effect on Mr Bagley's vote."

"Is that wrong?" said Frank; "upon my word I thought that it was quite legitimate."

"One should never admit anything in electioneering matters, should one?" said George, turning
to Mr Nearthewinde.

"Very little, Mr de Courcy; very little indeed--the less the better. It's hard to say in these
days what is wrong and what is not. Now, there's Reddypalm, the publican, the man who has the
Brown Bear. Well, I was there, of course: he's a voter, and if any man in Barchester ought
to feel himself bound to vote for a friend of the duke's, he ought. Now, I was so thirsty when
I was in that man's house that I was dying for a glass of beer; but for the life of me I didn't
dare order one."

"Why not?" said Frank, whose mind was only just beginning to be enlightened by the great doctrine
of purity of election as practised in English provincial towns.

"Oh, Closerstil had some fellow looking at me; why, I can't walk down that town without having
my very steps counted. I like sharp fighting myself, but I never go so sharp as that."

"Nevertheless I got Bagley's vote," said Frank, persisting in praise of his own electioneering
prowess; "and you may be sure of this, Mr Nearthewinde, none of Closerstil's men were looking
at me when I got it."

"Who'll pay for the bonnets, Frank?" said George.

"Oh, I'll pay for them if Moffat won't. I think I shall keep an account there; they seem to
have good gloves and those sort of things."

"Very good, I have no doubt," said George.

"I suppose your lordship will be in town soon after the meeting of Parliament?" said the bishop,
questioning the earl.

"Oh! yes; I suppose I must be there. I am never allowed to remain very long in quiet. It is
a great nuisance; but it is too late to think of that now."

"Men in high places, my lord, never were, and never will be, allowed to consider themselves.
They burn their torches not in their own behalf," said the bishop, thinking, perhaps, as much
of himself as he did of his noble friend. "Rest and quiet are the comforts of those who have
been content to remain in obscurity."

"Perhaps so," said the earl, finishing his glass of claret with an air of virtuous resignation.
"Perhaps so." His own martyrdom, however, had not been severe, for the rest and quiet of home
had never been peculiarly satisfactory to his tastes. Soon after this they all went to the ladies.

It was some little time before Frank could find an opportunity of recommencing his allotted
task with Miss Dunstable. She got into conversation with the bishop and some other people,
and, except that he took her teacup and nearly managed to squeeze one of her fingers as he
did so, he made very little further progress till towards the close of the evening.

At last he found her so nearly alone as to admit of his speaking to her in his low confidential
voice.

"Have you managed that matter with my aunt?"

"What matter?" said Miss Dunstable; and her voice was not low, nor particularly confidential.

"About those three or four gentlemen whom you wish to invite here?"

"Oh! my attendant knights! no, indeed; you gave me such very slight hope of success; besides,
you said something about my not wanting them."

"Yes I did; I really think they'd be quite unnecessary. If you should want any one to defend you--"

"At these coming elections, for instance."

"Then, or at any other time, there are plenty here who will be ready to stand up for you."

"Plenty! I don't want plenty: one good lance in the olden days was always worth more than a
score of ordinary men-at-arms."

"But you talked about three or four."

"Yes; but then you see, Mr Gresham, I have never yet found the one good lance--at least, not
good enough to suit my ideas of true prowess."

What could Frank do but declare that he was ready to lay his own in rest, now and always in
her behalf? His aunt had been quite angry with him, and had thought that he turned her into
ridicule, when he spoke of making an offer to her guest that very evening; and yet here he
was so placed that he had hardly an alternative. Let his inward resolution to abjure the heiress
be ever so strong, he was now in a position which allowed him no choice in the matter. Even
Mary Thorne could hardly have blamed him for saying, that so far as his own prowess went, it
was quite at Miss Dunstable's service. Had Mary been looking on, she, perhaps, might have thought
that he could have done so with less of that look of devotion which he threw into his eyes.

"Well, Mr Gresham, that's very civil--very civil indeed," said Miss Dunstable. "Upon my word,
if a lady wanted a true knight she might do worse than trust to you. Only I fear that your
courage is of so exalted a nature that you would be ever ready to do battle for any beauty
who might be in distress--or, indeed, who might not. You could never confine your valour to
the protection of one maiden."

"Oh, yes! but I would though if I liked her," said Frank. "There isn't a more constant fellow
in the world than I am in that way--you try me, Miss Dunstable."

"When young ladies make such trials as that, they sometimes find it too late to go back if
the trial doesn't succeed, Mr Gresham."

"Oh, of course there's always some risk. It's like hunting; there would be no fun if there
was no danger."

"But if you get a tumble one day you can retrieve your honour the next; but a poor girl, if
she once trusts a man who says that he loves her, has no such chance. For myself, I would never
listen to a man unless I'd known him for seven years at least."

"Seven years!" said Frank, who could not help thinking that in seven years' time Miss Dunstable
would be almost an old woman. "Seven days is enough to know any person."

"Or perhaps seven hours; eh, Mr Gresham?"

"Seven hours--well, perhaps seven hours, if they happen to be a good deal together during the
time."

"There's nothing after all like love at first sight, is there, Mr Gresham?"

Frank knew well enough that she was quizzing him, and could not resist the temptation he felt
to be revenged on her. "I am sure it's very pleasant," said he; "but as for myself, I have
never experienced it."

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Miss Dunstable. "Upon my word, Mr Gresham, I like you amazingly. I didn't
expect to meet anybody down here that I should like half so much. You must come and see me
in London, and I'll introduce you to my three knights," and so saying, she moved away and fell
into conversation with some of the higher powers.

Frank felt himself to be rather snubbed, in spite of the strong expression which Miss Dunstable
had made in his favour. It was not quite clear to him that she did not take him for a boy.
He was, to be sure, avenged on her for that by taking her for a middle-aged woman; but, nevertheless,
he was hardly satisfied with himself; "I might give her a heartache yet," said he to himself,
"and she might find afterwards that she was left in the lurch with all her money." And so he
retired, solitary, into a far part of the room, and began to think of Mary Thorne. As he did
so, and as his eyes fell upon Miss Dunstable's stiff curls, he almost shuddered.

And then the ladies retired. His aunt, with a good-natured smile on her face, come to him as
she was leaving the room, the last of the bevy, and putting her hand on his arm, led him out
into a small unoccupied chamber which opened from the grand saloon.

"Upon my word, Master Frank," said she, "you seem to be losing no time with the heiress. You
have quite made an impression already."

"I don't know much about that, aunt," said he, looking rather sheepish.

"Oh, I declare you have; but, Frank, my dear boy, you should not precipitate these sort of
things too much. It is well to take a little more time: it is more valued; and perhaps, you
know, on the whole--"

Perhaps Frank might know; but it was clear that Lady de Courcy did not: at any rate, she did
not know how to express herself. Had she said out her mind plainly, she would probably have
spoken thus: "I want you to make love to Miss Dunstable, certainly; or at any rate to make
an offer to her; but you need not make a show of yourself and of her, too, by doing it so openly
as all that." The countess, however, did not want to reprimand her obedient nephew, and therefore
did not speak out her thoughts.

"Well?" said Frank, looking up into her face.

"Take a leetle more time--that is all, my dear boy; slow and sure, you know;" so the countess
again patted his arm and went away to bed.

"Old fool!" muttered Frank to himself, as he returned to the room where the men were still
standing. He was right in this: she was an old fool, or she would have seen that there was
no chance whatever that her nephew and Miss Dunstable should become man and wife.

"Well Frank," said the Honourable John; "so you're after the heiress already."

"He won't give any of us a chance," said the Honourable George. "If he goes on in that way
she'll be Mrs Gresham before a month is over. But, Frank, what will she say of your manner
of looking for Barchester votes?"

"Mr Gresham is certainly an excellent hand at canvassing," said Mr Nearthewinde; "only a little
too open in his manner of proceeding."

"I got that chorister for you at any rate," said Frank. "And you would never have had him without
me."

"I don't think half so much of the chorister's vote as that of Miss Dunstable," said the Honourable
George: "that's the interest that is really worth looking after."

"But, surely," said Mr Moffat, "Miss Dunstable has no property in Barchester?" Poor man! his
heart was so intent on his election that he had not a moment to devote to the claims of love.

CHAPTER XVII

The Election

And now the important day of the election had arrived, and some men's hearts beat quickly enough.
To be or not to a member of the British Parliament is a question of very considerable moment
in a man's mind. Much is often said of the great penalties which the ambitious pay for enjoying
this honour; of the tremendous expenses of elections; of the long, tedious hours of unpaid
labour: of the weary days passed in the House; but, nevertheless, the prize is one very well
worth the price paid for it--well worth any price that can be paid for it short of wading through
dirt and dishonour.

No other great European nation has anything like it to offer to the ambition of its citizens;
for in no other great country of Europe, not even in those which are free, has the popular
constitution obtained, as with us, true sovereignty and power of rule. Here it is so; and when
a man lays himself out to be a member of Parliament, he plays the highest game and for the
highest stakes which the country affords.

To some men, born silver-spooned, a seat in Parliament comes as a matter of course. From the
time of their early manhood they hardly know what it is not to sit there; and the honour is
hardly appreciated, being too much a matter of course. As a rule, they never know how great
a thing it is to be in Parliament; though, when reverse comes, as reverses occasionally will
come, they fully feel how dreadful it is to be left out.

But to men aspiring to be members, or to those who having been once fortunate have again to
fight the battle without assurance of success, the coming election must be matter of dread
concern. Oh, how delightful to hear that the long-talked-of rival has declined the contest,
and that the course is clear! or to find by a short canvass that one's majority is safe, and
the pleasures of crowing over an unlucky, friendless foe quite secured!

No such gratification as this filled the bosom of Mr Moffat on the morning of the Barchester
election. To him had been brought no positive assurance of success by his indefatigable agent,
Mr Nearthewinde. It was admitted on all sides that the contest would be a very close one; and
Mr Nearthewinde would not do more than assert that they ought to win unless things went very
wrong with them.

Mr Nearthewinde had other elections to attend to, and had not been remaining at Courcy Castle
ever since the coming of Miss Dunstable: but he had been there, and at Barchester, as often
as possible, and Mr Moffat was made greatly uneasy by reflecting how very high the bill would be.

The two parties had outdone each other in the loudness of their assertions, that each would
on his side conduct the election in strict conformity to law. There was to be no bribery. Bribery!
who, indeed, in these days would dare to bribe; to give absolute money for an absolute vote,
and pay for such an article in downright palpable sovereigns? No. Purity was much too rampant
for that, and the means of detection too well understood. But purity was to be carried much
further than this. There should be no treating; no hiring of two hundred voters to act as messengers
at twenty shillings a day in looking up some four hundred other voters; no bands were to be
paid for; no carriages furnished; no ribbons supplied. British voters were to vote, if vote
they would, for the love and respect they bore to their chosen candidate. If so actuated, they
would not vote, they might stay away; no other inducement would be offered.

So much was said loudly--very loudly--by each party; but, nevertheless, Mr Moffat, early in
these election days, began to have some misgivings about the bill. The proclaimed arrangement
had been one exactly suitable to his taste; for Mr Moffat loved his money. He was a man in
whose breast the ambition of being great in the world, and of joining himself to aristocratic
people was continually at war with the great cost which such tastes occasioned. His last election
had not been a cheap triumph. In one way or another money had been dragged from him for purposes
which had been to his mind unintelligible; and when, about the middle of his first session,
he had, with much grumbling, settled all demands, he had questioned with himself whether his
whistle was worth its cost.

He was therefore a great stickler for purity of election; although, had he considered the matter,
he should have known that with him money was his only passport into that Elysium in which he
had now lived for two years. He probably did not consider it; for when, in those canvassing
days immediately preceding the election, he had seen that all the beer-houses were open, and
half the population was drunk, he had asked Mr Nearthewinde whether this violation of the treaty
was taking place only on the part of his opponent, and whether, in such case, it would not
be duly noticed with a view to a possible future petition.

Mr Nearthewinde assured him triumphantly that half at least of the wallowing swine were his
own especial friends; and that somewhat more than half of the publicans of the town were eagerly
engaged in fighting his, Mr Moffat's battle. Mr Moffat groaned, and would have expostulated
had Mr Nearthewinde been willing to hear him. But that gentleman's services had been put into
requisition by Lord de Courcy rather than by the candidate. For the candidate he cared but
little. To pay the bill would be enough for him. He, Mr Nearthewinde, was doing his business
as he well knew how to do it; and it was not likely that he should submit to be lectured by
such as Mr Moffat on a trumpery score of expense.

It certainly did appear on the morning of the election as though some great change had been
made in that resolution of the candidates to be very pure. From an early hour rough bands of
music were to be heard in every part of the usually quiet town; carts and gigs, omnibuses and
flys, all the old carriages from all the inn-yards, and every vehicle of any description which
could be pressed into the service were in motion; if the horses and post-boys were not to be
paid for by the candidates, the voters themselves were certainly very liberal in their mode
of bringing themselves to the poll. The election district of the city of Barchester extended
for some miles on each side of the city, so that the omnibuses and flys had enough to do. Beer
was to be had at the public-houses, almost without question, by all who chose to ask for it;
and rum and brandy were dispensed to select circles within the bars with equal profusion. As
for ribbons, the mercers' shops must have been emptied of that article, as far as scarlet and
yellow were concerned. Scarlet was Sir Roger's colour, while the friends of Mr Moffat were
decked with yellow. Seeing what he did see, Mr Moffat might well ask whether there had not
been a violation of the treaty of purity!

At the time of this election there was some question whether England should go to war with
all her energy; or whether it would not be better for her to save her breath to cool her porridge,
and not meddle more than could be helped with foreign quarrels. The last view of the matter
was advocated by Sir Roger, and his motto of course proclaimed the merits of domestic peace
and quiet. "Peace abroad and a big loaf at home," was consequently displayed on four or five
huge scarlet banners, and carried waving over the heads of the people. But Mr Moffat was a
staunch supporter of the Government, who were already inclined to be belligerent, and "England's
honour" was therefore the legend under which he selected to do battle. It may, however, be
doubted whether there was in all Barchester one inhabitant--let alone one elector--so fatuous
as to suppose that England's honour was in any special manner dear to Mr Moffat; or that he
would be a whit more sure of a big loaf than he was now, should Sir Roger happily become a
member of the legislature.

And then the fine arts were resorted to, seeing that language fell short in telling all that
was found necessary to be told. Poor Sir Roger's failing as regards the bottle was too well
known; and it was also known that, in acquiring his title, he had not quite laid aside the
rough mode of speech which he had used in his early years. There was, consequently, a great
daub painted up on sundry walls, on which a navvy, with a pimply, bloated face, was to be seen
standing on a railway bank, leaning on a spade holding a bottle in one hand, while he invited
a comrade to drink. "Come, Jack, shall us have a drop of some'at short?" were the words coming
out of the navvy's mouth; and under this was painted in huge letters,

   "THE LAST NEW BARONET."

But Mr Moffat hardly escaped on easier terms. The trade by which his father had made his money
was as well known as that of the railway contractor; and every possible symbol of tailordom
was displayed in graphic portraiture on the walls and hoardings of the city. He was drawn with
his goose, with his scissors, with his needle, with his tapes; he might be seen measuring,
cutting, stitching, pressing, carrying home his bundle, and presenting his little bill; and
under each of these representations was repeated his own motto: "England's honour."

Such were the pleasant little amenities with which the people of Barchester greeted the two
candidates who were desirous of the honour of serving them in Parliament.

The polling went on briskly and merrily. There were somewhat above nine hundred registered
voters, of whom the greater portion recorded their votes early in the day. At two o'clock,
according to Sir Roger's committee, the numbers were as follows:--

   Scatcherd    275
   Moffat       268

Whereas, by the light afforded by Mr Moffat's people, they stood in a slightly different ratio
to each other, being written thus:--

   Moffat       277
   Scatcherd    269

This naturally heightened the excitement, and gave additional delight to the proceedings. At
half-past two it was agreed by both sides that Mr Moffat was ahead; the Moffatites claiming
a majority of twelve, and the Scatcherdites allowing a majority of one. But by three o'clock
sundry good men and true, belonging to the railway interest, had made their way to the booth
in spite of the efforts of a band of roughs from Courcy, and Sir Roger was again leading, by
ten or a dozen, according to his own showing.

One little transaction which took place in the earlier part of the day deserves to be recorded.
There was in Barchester an honest publican--honest as the world of publicans goes--who not
only was possessed of a vote, but possessed also of a son who was a voter. He was one Reddypalm,
and in former days, before he had learned to appreciate the full value of an Englishman's franchise,
he had been a declared Liberal and an early friend of Roger Scatcherd's. In latter days he
had governed his political feelings with more decorum, and had not allowed himself to be carried
away by such foolish fervour as he had evinced in his youth. On this special occasion, however,
his line of conduct was so mysterious as for a while to baffle even those who knew him best.

His house was apparently open in Sir Roger's interest. Beer, at any rate, was flowing there
as elsewhere; and scarlet ribbons going in--not, perhaps, in a state of perfect steadiness--came
out more unsteady than before. Still had Mr Reddypalm been deaf to the voice of that charmer,
Closerstil, though he had charmed with all his wisdom. Mr Reddypalm had stated, first his unwillingness
to vote at all:--he had, he said, given over politics, and was not inclined to trouble his
mind again with the subject; then he had spoken of his great devotion to the Duke of Omnium,
under whose grandfathers his grandfather had been bred: Mr Nearthewinde had, as he said, been
with him, and proved to him beyond a shadow of a doubt that it would show the deepest ingratitude
on his part to vote against the duke's candidate.

Mr Closerstil thought he understood all this, and sent more, and still more men to drink beer.
He even caused--taking infinite trouble to secure secrecy in the matter--three gallons of British
brandy to be ordered and paid for as the best French. But, nevertheless, Mr Reddypalm made
no sign to show that he considered that the right thing had been done. On the evening before
the election, he told one of Mr Closerstil's confidential men, that he had thought a good deal
about it, and that he believed he should be constrained by his conscience to vote for Mr Moffat.

We have said that Mr Closerstil was accompanied by a learned friend of his, one Mr Romer, a
barrister, who was greatly interested in Sir Roger, and who, being a strong Liberal, was assisting
in the canvass with much energy. He, hearing how matters were likely to go with this conscientious
publican, and feeling himself peculiarly capable of dealing with such delicate scruples, undertook
to look into the case in hand. Early, therefore, on the morning of the election, he sauntered
down the cross street in which hung out the sign of the Brown Bear, and, as he expected, found
Mr Reddypalm near his own door.

Now it was quite an understood thing that there was to be no bribery. This was understood by
no one better than by Mr Romer, who had, in truth, drawn up many of the published assurances
to that effect. And, to give him his due, he was fully minded to act in accordance with these
assurances. The object of all the parties was to make it worth the voters' while to give their
votes; but to do so without bribery. Mr Romer had repeatedly declared that he would have nothing
to do with any illegal practising; but he had also declared that, as long as all was done according
to law, he was ready to lend his best efforts to assist Sir Roger. How he assisted Sir Roger,
and adhered to the law, will now be seen.

Oh, Mr Romer! Mr Romer! is it not the case with thee that thou "wouldst not play false, and
yet wouldst wrongly win?" Not in electioneering, Mr Romer, any more than in other pursuits,
can a man touch pitch and not be defiled; as thou, innocent as thou art, wilt soon learn to
thy terrible cost.

"Well, Reddypalm," said Mr Romer, shaking hands with him. Mr Romer had not been equally cautious
as Nearthewinde, and had already drunk sundry glasses of ale at the Brown Bear, in the hope
of softening the stern Bear-warden. "How is it to be to-day? Which is to be the man?"

"If any one knows that, Mr Romer, you must be the man. A poor numbskull like me knows nothing
of them matters. How should I? All I looks to, Mr Romer, is selling a trifle of drink now and
then--selling it, and getting paid for it, you know, Mr Romer."

"Yes, that's important, no doubt. But come, Reddypalm, such an old friend of Sir Roger as you
are, a man he speaks of as one of his intimate friends, I wonder how you can hesitate about
it? Now with another man, I should think that he wanted to be paid for voting--"

"Oh, Mr Romer!--fie--fie--fie!"

"I know it's not the case with you. It would be an insult to offer you money, even if money
were going. I should not mention this, only as money is not going, neither on our side nor
on the other, no harm can be done."

"Mr Romer, if you speak of such a thing, you'll hurt me. I know the value of an Englishman's
franchise too well to wish to sell it. I would not demean myself so low; no, not though five-and-twenty
pound a vote was going, as there was in the good old times--and that's not so long ago neither."

"I am sure you wouldn't, Reddypalm; I'm sure you wouldn't. But an honest man like you should
stick to old friends. Now, tell me," and putting his arm through Reddypalm's, he walked with
him into the passage of his own house; "Now, tell me--is there anything wrong? It's between
friends, you know. Is there anything wrong?"

"I wouldn't sell my vote for untold gold," said Reddypalm, who was perhaps aware that untold
gold would hardly be offered to him for it.

"I am sure you would not," said Mr Romer.

"But," said Reddypalm, "a man likes to be paid his little bill."

"Surely, surely," said the barrister.

"And I did say two years since, when your friend Mr Closerstil brought a friend of his down
to stand here--it wasn't Sir Roger then--but when he brought a friend of his down, and when
I drew two or three hogsheads of ale on their side, and when my bill was questioned and only
half-settled, I did say that I wouldn't interfere with no election no more. And no more I will,
Mr Romer--unless it be to give a quiet vote for the nobleman under whom I and mine always lived
respectable."

"Oh!" said Mr Romer.

"A man do like to have his bill paid, you know, Mr Romer."

Mr Romer could not but acknowledge that this was a natural feeling on the part of an ordinary
mortal publican.

"It goes agin the grain with a man not to have his little bill paid, and specially at election
time," again urged Mr Reddypalm.

Mr Romer had not much time to think about it; but he knew well that matters were so nearly
balanced, that the votes of Mr Reddypalm and his son were of inestimable value.

"If it's only about your bill," said Mr Romer, "I'll see to have that settled. I'll speak to
Closerstil about that."

"All right!" said Reddypalm, seizing the young barrister's hand, and shaking it warmly; "all
right!" And late in the afternoon when a vote or two became matter of intense interest, Mr
Reddypalm and his son came up to the hustings and boldly tendered theirs for their old friend,
Sir Roger.

There was a great deal of eloquence heard in Barchester on that day. Sir Roger had by this
time so far recovered as to be able to go through the dreadfully hard work of canvassing and
addressing the electors from eight in the morning till near sunset. A very perfect recovery,
most men will say. Yes; a perfect recovery as regarded the temporary use of his faculties,
both physical and mental; though it may be doubted whether there can be any permanent recovery
from such disease as his. What amount of brandy he consumed to enable him to perform this election
work, and what lurking evil effect the excitement might have on him--of these matters no record
was kept in the history of those proceedings.

Sir Roger's eloquence was of a rough kind; but not perhaps the less operative on those for
whom it was intended. The aristocracy of Barchester consisted chiefly of clerical dignitaries,
bishops, deans, prebendaries, and such like: on them and theirs it was not probable that anything
said by Sir Roger would have much effect. Those men would either abstain from voting, or vote
for the railway hero, with the view of keeping out the de Courcy candidate. Then came the shopkeepers,
who might also be regarded as a stiff-necked generation, impervious to electioneering eloquence.
They would, generally, support Mr Moffat. But there was an inferior class of voters, ten-pound
freeholders, and such like, who, at this period, were somewhat given to have an opinion of
their own, and over them it was supposed that Sir Roger did obtain some power by his gift of
talking.

"Now, gentlemen, will you tell me this," said he, bawling at the top of his voice from off
the portico which graced the door of the Dragon of Wantley, at which celebrated inn Sir Roger's
committee sat:--"Who is Mr Moffat, and what has he done for us? There have been some picture-makers
about the town this week past. The Lord knows who they are; I don't. These clever fellows do
tell you who I am, and what I've done. I ain't very proud of the way they've painted me, though
there's something about it I ain't ashamed of either. See here," and he held up on one side
of him one of the great daubs of himself--"just hold it there till I can explain it," and he
handed the paper to one of his friends. "That's me," said Sir Roger, putting up his stick,
and pointing to the pimply-nosed representation of himself.

"Hurrah! Hur-r-rah! more power to you--we all know who you are, Roger. You're the boy! When
did you get drunk last?" Such-like greetings, together with a dead cat which was flung at him
from the crowd, and which he dexterously parried with his stick, were the answers which he
received to this exordium.

"Yes," said he, quite undismayed by this little missile which had so nearly reached him: "that's
me. And look here; this brown, dirty-looking broad streak here is intended for a railway; and
that thing in my hand--not the right hand; I'll come to that presently--"

"How about the brandy, Roger?"

"I'll come to that presently. I'll tell you about the brandy in good time. But that thing in
my left hand is a spade. Now, I never handled a spade, and never could; but, boys, I handled
a chisel and mallet; and many a hundred block of stone has come out smooth from under that
hand;" and Sir Roger lifted up his great broad palm wide open.

"So you did, Roger, and well we minds it."

"The meaning, however, of that spade is to show that I made the railway. Now I'm very much
obliged to those gentlemen over at the White Horse for putting up this picture of me. It's
a true picture, and it tells you who I am. I did make that railway. I have made thousands of
miles of railway; I am making thousands of miles of railways--some in Europe, some in Asia,
some in America. It's a true picture," and he poked his stick through it and held it up to
the crowd. "A true picture: but for that spade and that railway, I shouldn't be now here asking
your votes; and, when next February comes, I shouldn't be sitting in Westminster to represent
you, as, by God's grace, I certainly will do. That tells you who I am. But now, will you tell
me who Mr Moffat is?"

"How about the brandy, Roger?"

"Oh, yes, the brandy! I was forgetting that and the little speech that is coming out of my
mouth--a deal shorter speech, and a better one than what I am making now. Here, in the right
hand you see a brandy bottle. Well, boys, I'm not a bit ashamed of that; as long as a man does
his work--and the spade shows that--it's only fair he should have something to comfort him.
I'm always able to work, and few men work much harder. I'm always able to work, and no man
has a right to expect more of me. I never expect more than that from those who work for me."

"No more you don't, Roger: a little drop's very good, ain't it, Roger? Keeps the cold from
the stomach, eh, Roger?"

"Then as to this speech, 'Come, Jack, let's have a drop of some'at short.' Why, that's a good
speech too. When I do drink I like to share with a friend; and I don't care how humble that
friend is."

"Hurrah! more power. That's true too, Roger; may you never be without a drop to wet your whistle."

"They say I'm the last new baronet. Well, I ain't ashamed of that; not a bit. When will Mr
Moffat get himself made a baronet? No man can truly say I'm too proud of it. I have never stuck
myself up; no, nor stuck my wife up either: but I don't see much to be ashamed of because the
bigwigs chose to make a baronet of me."

"Nor, no more thee h'ant, Roger. We'd all be barrownites if so be we knew the way."

"But now, having polished off this bit of picture, let me ask you who Mr Moffat is? There are
pictures enough about him, too; though Heaven knows where they all come from. I think Sir Edwin
Landseer must have done this one of the goose; it is so deadly natural. Look at it; there he
is. Upon my word, whoever did that ought to make his fortune at some of these exhibitions.
Here he is again, with a big pair of scissors. He calls himself 'England's honour;' what the
deuce England's honour has to do with tailoring, I can't tell you: perhaps Mr Moffat can. But
mind you, my friends, I don't say anything against tailoring: some of you are tailors, I dare say."

"Yes, we be," said a little squeaking voice from out of the crowd.

"And a good trade it is. When I first knew Barchester there were tailors here could lick any
stone-mason in the trade; I say nothing against tailors. But it isn't enough for a man to be
a tailor unless he's something else along with it. You're not so fond of tailors that you'll
send one up to Parliament merely because he is a tailor."

"We won't have no tailors. No; nor yet no cabbaging. Take a go of brandy, Roger; you're blown."

"No, I'm not blown yet. I've a deal more to say about Mr Moffat before I shall be blown. What
has he done to entitle him to come here before you and ask you to send him to Parliament? Why;
he isn't even a tailor. I wish he were. There's always some good in a fellow who knows how
to earn his own bread. But he isn't a tailor; he can't even put a stitch in towards mending
England's honour. His father was a tailor; not a Barchester tailor, mind you, so as to give
him any claim on your affections; but a London tailor. Now the question is, do you want to
send the son of a London tailor up to Parliament to represent you?"

"No, we don't; nor yet we won't either."

"I rather think not. You've had him once, and what has he done for you? Has he said much for
you in the House of Commons? Why, he's so dumb a dog that he can't bark even for a bone. I'm
told it's quite painful to hear him fumbling and mumbling and trying to get up a speech there
over at the White Horse. He doesn't belong to the city; he hasn't done anything for the city;
and he hasn't the power to do anything for the city. Then, why on earth does he come here?
I'll tell you. The Earl de Courcy brings him. He's going to marry the Earl de Courcy's niece;
for they say he's very rich--this tailor's son--only they do say also that he doesn't much
like to spend his money. He's going to marry Lord de Courcy's niece, and Lord de Courcy wishes
that his nephew should be in Parliament. There, that's the claim which Mr Moffat has here on
the people of Barchester. He's Lord de Courcy's nominee, and those who feel themselves bound
hand and foot, heart and soul, to Lord de Courcy, had better vote for him. Such men have my
leave. If there are enough of such at Barchester to send him to Parliament, the city in which
I was born must be very much altered since I was a young man."

And so finishing his speech, Sir Roger retired within, and recruited himself in the usual manner.

Such was the flood of eloquence at the Dragon of Wantly. At the White Horse, meanwhile, the
friends of the de Courcy interest were treated perhaps to sounder political views; though not
expressed in periods so intelligibly fluent as those of Sir Roger.

Mr Moffat was a young man, and there was no knowing to what proficiency in the Parliamentary
gift of public talking he might yet attain; but hitherto his proficiency was not great. He
had, however, endeavoured to make up by study for any want of readiness of speech, and had
come to Barchester daily, for the last four days, fortified with a very pretty harangue, which
he had prepared for himself in the solitude of his chamber. On the three previous days matters
had been allowed to progress with tolerable smoothness, and he had been permitted to deliver
himself of his elaborate eloquence with few other interruptions than those occasioned by his
own want of practice. But on this, the day of days, the Barchesterian roughs were not so complaisant.
It appeared to Mr Moffat, when he essayed to speak, that he was surrounded by enemies rather
than friends; and in his heart he gave great blame to Mr Nearthewinde for not managing matters
better for him.

"Men of Barchester," he began, in a voice which was every now and then preternaturally loud,
but which, at each fourth or fifth word, gave way from want of power, and descended to its
natural weak tone. "Men of Barchester--electors and non-electors--"

"We is hall electors; hall on us, my young kiddy."

"Electors and non-electors, I now ask your suffrages, not for the first time--"

"Oh! we've tried you. We know what you're made on. Go on, Snip; don't you let 'em put you down."

"I've had the honour of representing you in Parliament for the last two years and--"

"And a deuced deal you did for us, didn't you?"

"What could you expect from the ninth part of a man? Never mind, Snip--go on; don't you be
out by any of them. Stick to your wax and thread like a man--like the ninth part of a man--go
on a little faster, Snip."

"For the last two years--and--and--" Here Mr Moffat looked round to his friends for some little
support, and the Honourable George, who stood close behind him, suggested that he had gone
through it like a brick.

"And--and I went through it like a brick," said Mr Moffat, with the gravest possible face,
taking up in his utter confusion the words that were put into his mouth.

"Hurray!--so you did--you're the real brick. Well done, Snip; go it again with the wax and thread!"

"I am a thorough-paced reformer," continued Mr Moffat, somewhat reassured by the effect of
the opportune words which his friend had whispered into his ear. "A thorough-paced reformer--a
thorough-paced reformer--"

"Go on, Snip. We all know what that means."

"A thorough-paced reformer--"

"Never mind your paces, man; but get on. Tell us something new. We're all reformers, we are."

Poor Mr Moffat was a little thrown back. It wasn't so easy to tell these gentlemen anything
new, harnessed as he was at this moment; so he looked back at his honourable supporter for
some further hint. "Say something about their daughters," whispered George, whose own flights
of oratory were always on that subject. Had he counselled Mr Moffat to say a word or two about
the tides, his advice would not have been less to the purpose.

"Gentlemen," he began again--"you all know that I am a thorough-paced reformer--"

"Oh, drat your reform. He's a dumb dog. Go back to your goose, Snippy; you never were made
for this work. Go to Courcy Castle and reform that."

Mr Moffat, grieved in his soul, was becoming inextricably bewildered by such facetiæ as these,
when an egg,--and it may be feared not a fresh egg,--flung with unerring precision, struck
him on the open part of his well-plaited shirt, and reduced him to speechless despair.

An egg is a means of delightful support when properly administered; but it is not calculated
to add much spirit to a man's eloquence, or to ensure his powers of endurance, when supplied
in the manner above described. Men there are, doubtless, whose tongues would not be stopped
even by such an argument as this; but Mr Moffat was not one of them. As the insidious fluid
trickled down beneath his waistcoat, he felt that all further powers of coaxing the electors
out of their votes, by words flowing from his tongue sweeter than honey, was for that occasion
denied to him. He could not be self-confident, energetic, witty, and good-humoured with a rotten
egg drying through his clothes. He was forced, therefore, to give way, and with sadly disconcerted
air retired from the open window at which he had been standing.

It was in vain that the Honourable George, Mr Nearthewinde, and Frank endeavoured again to
bring him to the charge. He was like a beaten prize-fighter, whose pluck has been cowed out
of him, and who, if he stands up, only stands up to fall. Mr Moffat got sulky also, and when
he was pressed, said that Barchester and the people in it might be d----. "With all my heart,"
said Mr Nearthewinde. "That wouldn't have any effect on their votes."

But, in truth, it mattered very little whether Mr Moffat spoke, or whether he didn't speak.
Four o'clock was the hour for closing the poll, and that was now fast coming. Tremendous exertions
had been made about half-past three, by a safe emissary sent from Nearthewinde, to prove to
Mr Reddypalm that all manner of contingent advantages would accrue to the Brown Bear if it
should turn out that Mr Moffat should take his seat for Barchester. No bribe was, of course,
offered or even hinted at. The purity of Barchester was not contaminated during the day by
one such curse as this. But a man, and a publican, would be required to do some great deed
in the public line; to open some colossal tap; to draw beer for the million; and no one would
be so fit as Mr Reddypalm--if only it might turn out that Mr Moffat should, in the coming February,
take his seat as member for Barchester.

But Mr Reddypalm was a man of humble desires, whose ambitions soared no higher than this--that
his little bills should be duly settled. It is wonderful what love an innkeeper has for his
bill in its entirety. An account, with a respectable total of five or six pounds, is brought
to you, and you complain but of one article; that fire in the bedroom was never lighted; or
that second glass of brandy and water was never called for. You desire to have the shilling
expunged, and all your host's pleasure in the whole transaction is destroyed. Oh! my friends,
pay for the brandy and water, though you never drank it; suffer the fire to pass, though it
never warmed you. Why make a good man miserable for such a trifle?

It became notified to Reddypalm with sufficient clearness that his bill for the past election
should be paid without further question; and, therefore, at five o'clock the Mayor of Barchester
proclaimed the results of the contest in the following figures:--

   Scatcherd    378
   Moffat       376

Mr Reddypalm's two votes had decided the question. Mr Nearthewinde immediately went up to town;
and the dinner party at Courcy Castle that evening was not a particularly pleasant meal.

This much, however, had been absolutely decided before the yellow committee concluded their
labour at the White Horse: there should be a petition. Mr Nearthewinde had not been asleep,
and already knew something of the manner in which Mr Reddypalm's mind had been quieted.

CHAPTER XVIII

The Rivals

The intimacy between Frank and Miss Dunstable grew and prospered. That is to say, it prospered
as an intimacy, though perhaps hardly as a love affair. There was a continued succession of
jokes between them, which no one else in the castle understood; but the very fact of there
being such a good understanding between them rather stood in the way of, than assisted, that
consummation which the countess desired. People, when they are in love with each other, or
even when they pretend to be, do not generally show it by loud laughter. Nor is it frequently
the case that a wife with two hundred thousand pounds can be won without some little preliminary
despair. Now there was no despair at all about Frank Gresham.

Lady de Courcy, who thoroughly understood that portion of the world in which she herself lived,
saw that things were not going quite as they should do, and gave much and repeated advice to
Frank on the subject. She was the more eager in doing this, because she imagined Frank had
done what he could to obey her first precepts. He had not turned up his nose at Miss Dunstable's
curls, nor found fault with her loud voice: he had not objected to her as ugly, nor even shown
any dislike to her age. A young man who had been so amenable to reason was worthy of further
assistance; and so Lady de Courcy did what she could to assist him.

"Frank, my dear boy," she would say, "you are a little too noisy, I think. I don't mean for
myself, you know; I don't mind it. But Miss Dunstable would like it better if you were a little
more quiet with her."

"Would she, aunt?" said Frank, looking demurely up into the countess's face. "I rather think
she likes fun and noise, and that sort of thing. You know she's not very quiet herself."

"Ah!--but Frank, there are times, you know, when that sort of thing should be laid aside. Fun,
as you call it, is all very well in its place. Indeed, no one likes it better than I do. But
that's not the way to show admiration. Young ladies like to be admired; and if you'll be a
little more soft-mannered with Miss Dunstable, I'm sure you'll find it will answer better."

And so the old bird taught the young bird how to fly--very needlessly--for in this matter of
flying, Nature gives her own lessons thoroughly; and the ducklings will take the water, even
though the maternal hen warn them against the perfidious element never so loudly.

Soon after this, Lady de Courcy began to be not very well pleased in the matter. She took it
into her head that Miss Dunstable was sometimes almost inclined to laugh at her; and on one
or two occasions it almost seemed as though Frank was joining Miss Dunstable in doing so. The
fact indeed was, that Miss Dunstable was fond of fun; and, endowed as she was with all the
privileges which two hundred thousand pounds may be supposed to give to a young lady, did not
very much care at whom she laughed. She was able to make a tolerably correct guess at Lady
de Courcy's plan towards herself; but she did not for a moment think that Frank had any intention
of furthering his aunt's views. She was, therefore, not at all ill-inclined to have her revenge
on the countess.

"How very fond your aunt is of you!" she said to him one wet morning, as he was sauntering
through the house; now laughing, and almost romping with her--then teasing his sister about
Mr Moffat--and then bothering his lady-cousins out of all their propriety.

"Oh, very!" said Frank: "she is a dear, good woman, is my Aunt de Courcy."

"I declare she takes more notice of you and your doings than of any of your cousins. I wonder
they ain't jealous."

"Oh! they're such good people. Bless me, they'd never be jealous."

"You are so much younger than they are, that I suppose she thinks you want more of her care."

"Yes; that's it. You see she's fond of having a baby to nurse."

"Tell me, Mr Gresham, what was it she was saying to you last night? I know we had been misbehaving
ourselves dreadfully. It was all your fault; you would make me laugh so."

"That's just what I said to her."

"She was talking about me, then?"

"How on earth should she talk of any one else as long as you are here? Don't you know that
all the world is talking about you?"

"Is it?--dear me, how kind! But I don't care a straw about any world just at present but Lady
de Courcy's world. What did she say?"

"She said you were very beautiful--"

"Did she?--how good of her!"

"No; I forgot. It--it was I that said that; and she said--what was it she said? She said, that
after all, beauty was but skin deep--and that she valued you for your virtues and prudence
rather than your good looks."

"Virtues and prudence! She said I was prudent and virtuous?"

"Yes."

"And you talked of my beauty? That was so kind of you. You didn't either of you say anything
about other matters?"

"What other matters?"

"Oh! I don't know. Only some people are sometimes valued rather for what they've got than for
any good qualities belonging to themselves intrinsically."

"That can never be the case with Miss Dunstable; especially not at Courcy Castle," said Frank,
bowing easily from the corner of the sofa over which he was leaning.

"Of course not," said Miss Dunstable; and Frank at once perceived that she spoke in a tone
of voice differing much from that half-bantering, half-good-humoured manner that was customary
with her. "Of course not: any such idea would be quite out of the question with Lady de Courcy."
She paused for a moment, and then added in a tone different again, and unlike any that he had
yet heard from her:--"It is, at any rate, out of the question with Mr Frank Gresham--of that
I am quite sure."

Frank ought to have understood her, and have appreciated the good opinion which she intended
to convey; but he did not entirely do so. He was hardly honest himself towards her; and he
could not at first perceive that she intended to say that she thought him so. He knew very
well that she was alluding to her own huge fortune, and was alluding also to the fact that
people of fashion sought her because of it; but he did not know that she intended to express
a true acquittal as regarded him of any such baseness.

And did he deserve to be acquitted? Yes, upon the whole he did;--to be acquitted of that special
sin. His desire to make Miss Dunstable temporarily subject to his sway arose, not from a hankering
after her fortune, but from an ambition to get the better of a contest in which other men around
him seemed to be failing.

For it must not be imagined that, with such a prize to be struggled for, all others stood aloof
and allowed him to have his own way with the heiress, undisputed. The chance of a wife with
two hundred thousand pounds is a godsend which comes in a man's life too seldom to be neglected,
let that chance be never so remote.

Frank was the heir to a large embarrassed property; and, therefore, the heads of families,
putting their wisdoms together, had thought it most meet that this daughter of Plutus should,
if possible, fall to his lot. But not so thought the Honourable George; and not so thought
another gentleman who was at that time an inmate of Courcy Castle.

These suitors perhaps somewhat despised their young rival's efforts. It may be that they had
sufficient worldly wisdom to know that so important a crisis of life is not settled among quips
and jokes, and that Frank was too much in jest to be in earnest. But be that as it may, his
love-making did not stand in the way of their love-making; nor his hopes, if he had any, in
the way of their hopes.

The Honourable George had discussed the matter with the Honourable John in a properly fraternal
manner. It may be that John had also an eye to the heiress; but, if so, he had ceded his views
to his brother's superior claims; for it came about that they understood each other very well,
and John favoured George with salutary advice on the occasion.

"If it is to be done at all, it should be done very sharp," said John.

"As sharp as you like," said George. "I'm not the fellow to be studying three months in what
attitude I'll fall at a girl's feet."

"No: and when you are there you mustn't take three months more to study how you'll get up again.
If you do it at all, you must do it sharp," repeated John, putting great stress on his advice.

"I have said a few soft words to her already, and she didn't seem to take them badly," said George.

"She's no chicken, you know," remarked John; "and with a woman like that, beating about the
bush never does any good. The chances are she won't have you--that's of course; plums like
that don't fall into a man's mouth merely for shaking the tree. But it's possible she may;
and if she will, she's as likely to take you to-day as this day six months. If I were you I'd
write her a letter."

"Write her a letter--eh?" said George, who did not altogether dislike the advice, for it seemed
to take from his shoulders the burden of preparing a spoken address. Though he was so glib
in speaking about the farmers' daughters, he felt that he should have some little difficulty
in making known his passion to Miss Dunstable by word of mouth.

"Yes; write a letter. If she'll take you at all, she'll take you that way; half the matches
going are made up by writing letters. Write her a letter and get it put on her dressing-table."
George said that he would, and so he did.

George spoke quite truly when he hinted that he had said a few soft things to Miss Dunstable.
Miss Dunstable, however, was accustomed to hear soft things. She had been carried much about
in society among fashionable people since, on the settlement of her father's will, she had
been pronounced heiress to all the ointment of Lebanon; and many men had made calculations
respecting her similar to those which were now animating the brain of the Honourable George
de Courcy. She was already quite accustomed to being the target at which spendthrifts and the
needy rich might shoot their arrows: accustomed to being shot at, and tolerably accustomed
to protect herself without making scenes in the world, or rejecting the advantageous establishments
offered to her with any loud expressions of disdain. The Honourable George, therefore, had
been permitted to say soft things very much as a matter of course.

And very little more outward fracas arose from the correspondence which followed than had arisen
from the soft things so said. George wrote the letter, and had it duly conveyed to Miss Dunstable's
bed-chamber. Miss Dunstable duly received it, and had her answer conveyed back discreetly to
George's hands. The correspondence ran as follows:--

   Courcy Castle, Aug. --, 185--.

   MY DEAREST MISS DUNSTABLE,

   I cannot but flatter myself that you must have perceived
   from my manner that you are not indifferent to me. Indeed,
   indeed, you are not. I may truly say, and swear [these
   last strong words had been put in by the special counsel
   of the Honourable John], that if ever a man loved a woman
   truly, I truly love you. You may think it very odd that
   I should say this in a letter instead of speaking it out
   before your face; but your powers of raillery are so great
   ["touch her up about her wit" had been the advice of the
   Honourable John] that I am all but afraid to encounter
   them. Dearest, dearest Martha--oh do not blame me for so
   addressing you!--if you will trust your happiness to me
   you shall never find that you have been deceived. My
   ambition shall be to make you shine in that circle which
   you are so well qualified to adorn, and to see you firmly
   fixed in that sphere of fashion for which all your tastes
   adapt you.

   I may safely assert--and I do assert it with my hand on
   my heart--that I am actuated by no mercenary motives. Far
   be it from me to marry any woman--no, not a princess--on
   account of her money. No marriage can be happy without
   mutual affection; and I do fully trust--no, not trust, but
   hope--that there may be such between you and me, dearest
   Miss Dunstable. Whatever settlements you might propose,
   I should accede to. It is you, your sweet person, that I
   love, not your money.

   For myself, I need not remind you that I am the second son
   of my father; and that, as such, I hold no inconsiderable
   station in the world. My intention is to get into
   Parliament, and to make a name for myself, if I can, among
   those who shine in the House of Commons. My elder brother,
   Lord Porlock, is, you are aware, unmarried; and we
   all fear that the family honours are not likely to be
   perpetuated by him, as he has all manner of troublesome
   liaisons which will probably prevent his settling in life.
   There is nothing at all of that kind in my way. It will
   indeed be a delight to place a coronet on the head of my
   lovely Martha: a coronet which can give no fresh grace to
   her, but which will be so much adorned by her wearing it.

   Dearest Miss Dunstable, I shall wait with the utmost
   impatience for your answer; and now, burning with hope
   that it may not be altogether unfavourable to my love, I
   beg permission to sign myself--

   Your own most devoted,

   GEORGE DE COURCY.

The ardent lover had not to wait long for an answer from his mistress. She found this letter
on her toilet-table one night as she went to bed. The next morning she came down to breakfast
and met her swain with the most unconcerned air in the world; so much so that he began to think,
as he munched his toast with rather a shamefaced look, that the letter on which so much was
to depend had not yet come safely to hand. But his suspense was not of a prolonged duration.
After breakfast, as was his wont, he went out to the stables with his brother and Frank Gresham;
and while there, Miss Dunstable's man, coming up to him, touched his hat, and put a letter
into his hand.

Frank, who knew the man, glanced at the letter and looked at his cousin; but he said nothing.
He was, however, a little jealous, and felt that an injury was done to him by any correspondence
between Miss Dunstable and his cousin George.

Miss Dunstable's reply was as follows; and it may be remarked that it was written in a very
clear and well-penned hand, and one which certainly did not betray much emotion of the heart:--

   MY DEAR MR DE COURCY,

   I am sorry to say that I had not perceived from your
   manner that you entertained any peculiar feelings towards
   me; as, had I done so, I should at once have endeavoured
   to put an end to them. I am much flattered by the way in
   which you speak of me; but I am in too humble a position
   to return your affection; and can, therefore, only express
   a hope that you may be soon able to eradicate it from your
   bosom. A letter is a very good way of making an offer, and
   as such I do not think it at all odd; but I certainly did
   not expect such an honour last night. As to my raillery, I
   trust it has never yet hurt you. I can assure you it never
   shall. I hope you will soon have a worthier ambition than
   that to which you allude; for I am well aware that no
   attempt will ever make me shine anywhere.

   I am quite sure you have had no mercenary motives: such
   motives in marriage are very base, and quite below your
   name and lineage. Any little fortune that I may have must
   be a matter of indifference to one who looks forward, as
   you do, to put a coronet on his wife's brow. Nevertheless,
   for the sake of the family, I trust that Lord Porlock, in
   spite of his obstacles, may live to do the same for a wife
   of his own some of these days. I am glad to hear that
   there is nothing to interfere with your own prospects of
   domestic felicity.

   Sincerely hoping that you may be perfectly successful in
   your proud ambition to shine in Parliament, and regretting
   extremely that I cannot share that ambition with you, I
   beg to subscribe myself, with very great respect,--

   Your sincere well-wisher,

   MARTHA DUNSTABLE.

The Honourable George, with that modesty which so well became him, accepted Miss Dunstable's
reply as a final answer to his little proposition, and troubled her with no further courtship.
As he said to his brother John, no harm had been done, and he might have better luck next time.
But there was an intimate of Courcy Castle who was somewhat more pertinacious in his search
after love and wealth. This was no other than Mr Moffat: a gentleman whose ambition was not
satisfied by the cares of his Barchester contest, or the possession of one affianced bride.

Mr Moffat was, as we have said, a man of wealth; but we all know, from the lessons of early
youth, how the love of money increases and gains strength by its own success. Nor was he a
man of so mean a spirit as to be satisfied with mere wealth. He desired also place and station,
and gracious countenance among the great ones of the earth. Hence had come his adherence to
the de Courcys; hence his seat in Parliament; and hence, also, his perhaps ill-considered match
with Miss Gresham.

There is no doubt but that the privilege of matrimony offers opportunities to money-loving
young men which ought not to be lightly abused. Too many young men marry without giving any
consideration to the matter whatever. It is not that they are indifferent to money, but that
they recklessly miscalculate their own value, and omit to look around and see how much is done
by those who are more careful. A man can be young but once, and, except in cases of a special
interposition of Providence, can marry but once. The chance once thrown away may be said to
be irrevocable! How, in after-life, do men toil and turmoil through long years to attain some
prospect of doubtful advancement! Half that trouble, half that care, a tithe of that circumspection
would, in early youth, have probably secured to them the enduring comfort of a wife's wealth.

You will see men labouring night and day to become bank directors; and even a bank direction
may only be the road to ruin. Others will spend years in degrading subserviency to obtain a
niche in a will; and the niche, when at last obtained and enjoyed, is but a sorry payment for
all that has been endured. Others, again, struggle harder still, and go through even deeper
waters: they make wills for themselves, forge stock-shares, and fight with unremitting, painful
labour to appear to be the thing that they are not. Now, in many of these cases, all this might
have been spared had the men made adequate use of those opportunities which youth and youthful
charms afford once--and once only. There is no road to wealth so easy and respectable as that
of matrimony; that, is of course, provided that the aspirant declines the slow course of honest
work. But then, we can so seldom put old heads on young shoulders!

In the case of Mr Moffat, we may perhaps say that a specimen was produced of this bird, so
rare in the land. His shoulders were certainly young, seeing that he was not yet six-and-twenty;
but his head had ever been old. From the moment when he was first put forth to go alone--at
the age of twenty-one--his life had been one calculation how he could make the most of himself.
He had allowed himself to be betrayed into no folly by an unguarded heart; no youthful indiscretion
had marred his prospects. He had made the most of himself. Without wit, or depth, or any mental
gift--without honesty of purpose or industry for good work--he had been for two years sitting
member for Barchester; was the guest of Lord de Courcy; was engaged to the eldest daughter
of one of the best commoners' families in England; and was, when he first began to think of
Miss Dunstable, sanguine that his re-election to Parliament was secure.

When, however, at this period he began to calculate what his position in the world really was,
it occurred to him that he was doing an ill-judged thing in marrying Miss Gresham. Why marry
a penniless girl--for Augusta's trifle of a fortune was not a penny in his estimation--while
there was Miss Dunstable in the world to be won? His own six or seven thousand a year, quite
unembarrassed as it was, was certainly a great thing; but what might he not do if to that he
could add the almost fabulous wealth of the great heiress? Was she not here, put absolutely
in his path? Would it not be a wilful throwing away of a chance not to avail himself of it?
He must, to be sure, lose the de Courcy friendship; but if he should then have secured his
Barchester seat for the usual term of parliamentary session, he might be able to spare that.
He would also, perhaps, encounter some Gresham enmity: this was a point on which he did think
more than once: but what will not a man encounter for the sake of two hundred thousand pounds?

It was thus that Mr Moffat argued with himself, with much prudence, and brought himself to
resolve that he would at any rate become a candidate for the great prize. He also, therefore,
began to say soft things; and it must be admitted that he said them with more considerate propriety
than had the Honourable George. Mr Moffat had an idea that Miss Dunstable was not a fool, and
that in order to catch her he must do more than endeavour to lay salt on her tail, in the guise
of flattery. It was evident to him that she was a bird of some cunning, not to be caught by
an ordinary gin, such as those commonly in use with the Honourable Georges of Society.

It seemed to Mr Moffat, that though Miss Dunstable was so sprightly, so full of fun, and so
ready to chatter on all subjects, she well knew the value of her own money, and of her position
as dependent on it: he perceived that she never flattered the countess, and seemed to be no
whit absorbed by the titled grandeur of her host's family. He gave her credit, therefore, for
an independent spirit: and an independent spirit in his estimation was one that placed its
sole dependence on a respectable balance at its banker's.

Working on these ideas, Mr Moffat commenced operations in such manner that his overtures to
the heiress should not, if unsuccessful, interfere with the Greshamsbury engagement. He began
by making common cause with Miss Dunstable: their positions in the world, he said to her, were
closely similar. They had both risen from the lower class by the strength of honest industry:
they were both now wealthy, and had both hitherto made such use of their wealth as to induce
the highest aristocracy of England to admit them into their circles.

"Yes, Mr Moffat," had Miss Dunstable remarked; "and if all that I hear be true, to admit you
into their very families."

At this Mr Moffat slightly demurred. He would not affect, he said, to misunderstand what Miss
Dunstable meant. There had been something said on the probability of such an event; but he
begged Miss Dunstable not to believe all that she heard on such subjects.

"I do not believe much," said she; "but I certainly did think that that might be credited."

Mr Moffat then went on to show how it behoved them both, in holding out their hands half-way
to meet the aristocratic overtures that were made to them, not to allow themselves to be made
use of. The aristocracy, according to Mr Moffat, were people of a very nice sort; the best
acquaintance in the world; a portion of mankind to be noticed by whom should be one of the
first objects in the life of the Dunstables and the Moffats. But the Dunstables and Moffats
should be very careful to give little or nothing in return. Much, very much in return, would
be looked for. The aristocracy, said Mr Moffat, were not a people to allow the light of their
countenance to shine forth without looking for a quid pro quo, for some compensating value.
In all their intercourse with the Dunstables and Moffats, they would expect a payment. It was
for the Dunstables and Moffats to see that, at any rate, they did not pay more for the article
they got than its market value.

They way in which she, Miss Dunstable, and he, Mr Moffat, would be required to pay would be
by taking each of them some poor scion of the aristocracy in marriage; and thus expending their
hard-earned wealth in procuring high-priced pleasures for some well-born pauper. Against this,
peculiar caution was to be used. Of course, the further induction to be shown was this: that
people so circumstanced should marry among themselves; the Dunstables and the Moffats each
with the other, and not tumble into the pitfalls prepared for them.

Whether these great lessons had any lasting effect on Miss Dunstable's mind may be doubted.
Perhaps she had already made up her mind on the subject which Mr Moffat so well discussed.
She was older than Mr Moffat, and, in spite of his two years of parliamentary experience, had
perhaps more knowledge of the world with which she had to deal. But she listened to what he
said with complacency; understood his object as well as she had that of his aristocratic rival;
was no whit offended; but groaned in her spirit as she thought of the wrongs of Augusta Gresham.

But all this good advice, however, would not win the money for Mr Moffat without some more
decided step; and that step he soon decided on taking, feeling assured that what he had said
would have its due weight with the heiress.

The party at Courcy Castle was now soon about to be broken up. The male de Courcys were going
down to a Scotch mountain. The female de Courcys were to be shipped off to an Irish castle.
Mr Moffat was to go up to town to prepare his petition. Miss Dunstable was again about to start
on a foreign tour in behalf of her physician and attendants; and Frank Gresham was at last
to be allowed to go to Cambridge; that is to say, unless his success with Miss Dunstable should
render such a step on his part quite preposterous.

"I think you may speak now, Frank," said the countess. "I really think you may: you have known
her now for a considerable time; and, as far as I can judge, she is very fond of you."

"Nonsense, aunt," said Frank; "she doesn't care a button for me."

"I think differently; and lookers-on, you know, always understand the game best. I suppose
you are not afraid to ask her."

"Afraid!" said Frank, in a tone of considerable scorn. He almost made up his mind that he would
ask her to show that he was not afraid. His only obstacle to doing so was, that he had not
the slightest intention of marrying her.

There was to be but one other great event before the party broke up, and that was a dinner
at the Duke of Omnium's. The duke had already declined to come to Courcy; but he had in a measure
atoned for this by asking some of the guests to join a great dinner which he was about to give
to his neighbours.

Mr Moffat was to leave Courcy Castle the day after the dinner-party, and he therefore determined
to make his great attempt on the morning of that day. It was with some difficulty that he brought
about an opportunity; but at last he did so, and found himself alone with Miss Dunstable in
the walks of Courcy Park.

"It is a strange thing, is it not," said he, recurring to his old view of the same subject,
"that I should be going to dine with the Duke of Omnium--the richest man, they say, among the
whole English aristocracy?"

"Men of that kind entertain everybody, I believe, now and then," said Miss Dunstable, not very
civilly.

"I believe they do; but I am not going as one of the everybodies. I am going from Lord de Courcy's
house with some of his own family. I have no pride in that--not the least; I have more pride
in my father's honest industry. But it shows what money does in this country of ours."

"Yes, indeed; money does a great deal many queer things." In saying this Miss Dunstable could
not but think that money had done a very queer thing in inducing Miss Gresham to fall in love
with Mr Moffat.

"Yes; wealth is very powerful: here we are, Miss Dunstable, the most honoured guests in the house."

"Oh! I don't know about that; you may be, for you are a member of Parliament, and all that--"

"No; not a member now, Miss Dunstable."

"Well, you will be, and that's all the same; but I have no such title to honour, thank God."

They walked on in silence for a little while, for Mr Moffat hardly knew how to manage the business
he had in hand. "It is quite delightful to watch these people," he said at last; "now they
accuse us of being tuft-hunters."

"Do they?" said Miss Dunstable. "Upon my word I didn't know that anybody ever so accused me."

"I didn't mean you and me personally."

"Oh! I'm glad of that."

"But that is what the world says of persons of our class. Now it seems to me that the toadying
is all on the other side. The countess here does toady you, and so do the young ladies."

"Do they? if so, upon my word I didn't know it. But, to tell the truth, I don't think much
of such things. I live mostly to myself, Mr Moffat."

"I see that you do, and I admire you for it; but, Miss Dunstable, you cannot always live so,"
and Mr Moffat looked at her in a manner which gave her the first intimation of his coming burst
of tenderness.

"That's as may be, Mr Moffat," said she.

He went on beating about the bush for some time--giving her to understand now necessary it
was that persons situated as they were should live either for themselves or for each other,
and that, above all things, they should beware of falling into the mouths of voracious aristocratic
lions who go about looking for prey--till they came to a turn in the grounds; at which Miss
Dunstable declared her determination of going in. She had walked enough, she said. As by this
time Mr Moffat's immediate intentions were becoming visible she thought it prudent to retire.
"Don't let me take you in, Mr Moffat; but my boots are a little damp, and Dr Easyman will never
forgive me if I do not hurry in as fast as I can."

"Your feet damp?--I hope not: I do hope not," said he, with a look of the greatest solicitude.

"Oh! it's nothing to signify; but it's well to be prudent, you know. Good morning, Mr Moffat."

"Miss Dunstable!"

"Eh--yes!" and Miss Dunstable stopped in the grand path. "I won't let you return with me, Mr
Moffat, because I know you were not coming in so soon."

"Miss Dunstable; I shall be leaving this to-morrow."

"Yes; and I go myself the day after."

"I know it. I am going to town and you are going abroad. It may be long--very long--before
we meet again."

"About Easter," said Miss Dunstable; "that is, if the doctor doesn't knock up on the road."

"And I had, had wished to say something before we part for so long a time. Miss Dunstable--"

"Stop!--Mr Moffat. Let me ask you one question. I'll hear anything that you have got to say,
but on one condition: that is, that Miss Augusta Gresham shall be by while you say it. Will
you consent to that?"

"Miss Augusta Gresham," said he, "has no right to listen to my private conversation."

"Has she not, Mr Moffat? then I think she should have. I, at any rate, will not so far interfere
with what I look on as her undoubted privileges as to be a party to any secret in which she
may not participate."

"But, Miss Dunstable--"

"And to tell you fairly, Mr Moffat, any secret that you do tell me, I shall most undoubtedly
repeat to her before dinner. Good morning, Mr Moffat; my feet are certainly a little damp,
and if I stay a moment longer, Dr Easyman will put off my foreign trip for at least a week."
And so she left him standing alone in the middle of the gravel-walk.

For a moment or two, Mr Moffat consoled himself in his misfortune by thinking how he might
best avenge himself on Miss Dunstable. Soon, however, such futile ideas left his brain. Why
should he give over the chase because the rich galleon had escaped him on this, his first cruise
in pursuit of her? Such prizes were not to be won so easily. Her present objection clearly
consisted in his engagement to Miss Gresham, and in that only. Let that engagement be at an
end, notoriously and publicly broken off, and this objection would fall to the ground. Yes;
ships so richly freighted were not to be run down in one summer morning's plain sailing. Instead
of looking for his revenge on Miss Dunstable, it would be more prudent in him--more in keeping
with his character--to pursue his object, and overcome such difficulties as he might find in
his way.

CHAPTER XIX

The Duke of Omnium

The Duke of Omnium was, as we have said, a bachelor. Not the less on that account did he on
certain rare gala days entertain the beauty of the county at his magnificent rural seat, or
the female fashion of London in Belgrave Square; but on this occasion the dinner at Gatherum
Castle--for such was the name of his mansion--was to be confined to the lords of the creation.
It was to be one of those days on which he collected round his board all the notables of the
county, in order that his popularity might not wane, or the established glory of his hospitable
house become dim.

On such an occasion it was not probable that Lord de Courcy would be one of the guests. The
party, indeed, who went from Courcy Castle was not large, and consisted of the Honourable George,
Mr Moffat, and Frank Gresham. They went in a tax-cart, with a tandem horse, driven very knowingly
by George de Courcy; and the fourth seat on the back of the vehicle was occupied by a servant,
who was to look after the horses at Gatherum.

The Honourable George drove either well or luckily, for he reached the duke's house in safety;
but he drove very fast. Poor Miss Dunstable! what would have been her lot had anything but
good happened to that vehicle, so richly freighted with her three lovers! They did not quarrel
as to the prize, and all reached Gatherum Castle in good humour with each other.

The castle was new building of white stone, lately erected at an enormous cost by one of the
first architects of the day. It was an immense pile, and seemed to cover ground enough for
a moderate-sized town. But, nevertheless, report said that when it was completed, the noble
owner found that he had no rooms to live in; and that, on this account, when disposed to study
his own comfort, he resided in a house of perhaps one-tenth the size, built by his grandfather
in another county.

Gatherum Castle would probably be called Italian in its style of architecture; though it may,
I think, be doubted whether any such edifice, or anything like it, was ever seen in any part
of Italy. It was a vast edifice; irregular in height--or it appeared to be so--having long
wings on each side too high to be passed over by the eye as mere adjuncts to the mansion, and
a portico so large as to make the house behind it look like another building of a greater altitude.
This portico was supported by Ionic columns, and was in itself doubtless a beautiful structure.
It was approached by a flight of steps, very broad and very grand; but, as an approach by a
flight of steps hardly suits an Englishman's house, to the immediate entrance of which it is
necessary that his carriage should drive, there was another front door in one of the wings
which was commonly used. A carriage, however, could on very stupendously grand occasions--the
visits, for instance, of queens and kings, and royal dukes--be brought up under the portico;
as the steps had been so constructed as to admit of a road, with a rather stiff ascent, being
made close in front of the wing up into the very porch.

Opening from the porch was the grand hall, which extended up to the top of the house. It was
magnificent, indeed; being decorated with many-coloured marbles, and hung round with various
trophies of the house of Omnium; banners were there, and armour; the sculptured busts of many
noble progenitors; full-length figures in marble of those who had been especially prominent;
and every monument of glory that wealth, long years, and great achievements could bring together.
If only a man could but live in his hall and be for ever happy there! But the Duke of Omnium
could not live happily in his hall; and the fact was, that the architect, in contriving this
magnificent entrance for his own honour and fame, had destroyed the duke's house as regards
most of the ordinary purposes of residence.

Nevertheless, Gatherum Castle is a very noble pile; and, standing as it does on an eminence,
has a very fine effect when seen from many a distant knoll and verdant-wooded hill.

At seven o'clock Mr de Courcy and his friends got down from their drag at the smaller door--for
this was no day on which to mount up under the portico; nor was that any suitable vehicle to
have been entitled to such honour. Frank felt some excitement a little stronger than that usual
to him at such moments, for he had never yet been in company with the Duke of Omnium; and he
rather puzzled himself to think on what points he would talk to the man who was the largest
landowner in that county in which he himself had so great an interest. He, however, made up
his mind that he would allow the duke to choose his own subjects; merely reserving to himself
the right of pointing out how deficient in gorse covers was West Barsetshire--that being the
duke's division.

They were soon divested of their coats and hats, and, without entering on the magnificence
of the great hall, were conducted through rather a narrow passage into rather a small drawing-room--small,
that is, in proportion to the number of gentlemen there assembled. There might be about thirty,
and Frank was inclined to think that they were almost crowded. A man came forward to greet
them when their names were announced; but our hero at once knew that he was not the duke; for
this man was fat and short, whereas the duke was thin and tall.

There was a great hubbub going on; for everybody seemed to be talking to his neighbour; or,
in default of a neighbour, to himself. It was clear that the exalted rank of their host had
put very little constraint on his guests' tongues, for they chatted away with as much freedom
as farmers at an ordinary.

"Which is the duke?" at last Frank contrived to whisper to his cousin.

"Oh;--he's not here," said George; "I suppose he'll be in presently. I believe he never shows
till just before dinner."

Frank, of course, had nothing further to say; but he already began to feel himself a little
snubbed: he thought that the duke, duke though he was, when he asked people to dinner should
be there to tell them that he was glad to see them.

More people flashed into the room, and Frank found himself rather closely wedged in with a
stout clergyman of his acquaintance. He was not badly off, for Mr Athill was a friend of his
own, who had held a living near Greshamsbury. Lately, however, at the lamented decease of Dr
Stanhope--who had died of apoplexy at his villa in Italy--Mr Athill had been presented with
the better preferment of Eiderdown, and had, therefore, removed to another part of the county.
He was somewhat of a bon-vivant, and a man who thoroughly understood dinner-parties; and with
much good nature he took Frank under his special protection.

"You stick to me, Mr Gresham," he said, "when we go into the dining-room. I'm an old hand at
the duke's dinners, and know how to make a friend comfortable as well as myself."

"But why doesn't the duke come in?" demanded Frank.

"He'll be here as soon as dinner is ready," said Mr Athill. "Or, rather, the dinner will be
ready as soon as he is here. I don't care, therefore, how soon he comes."

Frank did not understand this, but he had nothing to do but to wait and see how things went.

He was beginning to be impatient, for the room was now nearly full, and it seemed evident that
no other guests were coming; when suddenly a bell rang, and a gong was sounded, and at the
same instant a door that had not yet been used flew open, and a very plainly dressed, plain,
tall man entered the room. Frank at once knew that he was at last in the presence of the Duke
of Omnium.

But his grace, late as he was in commencing the duties as host, seemed in no hurry to make
up for lost time. He quietly stood on the rug, with his back to the empty grate, and spoke
one or two words in a very low voice to one or two gentlemen who stood nearest to him. The
crowd, in the meanwhile, became suddenly silent. Frank, when he found that the duke did not
come and speak to him, felt that he ought to go and speak to the duke; but no one else did
so, and when he whispered his surprise to Mr Athill, that gentleman told him that this was
the duke's practice on all such occasions.

"Fothergill," said the duke--and it was the only word he had yet spoken out loud--"I believe
we are ready for dinner." Now Mr Fothergill was the duke's land-agent, and he it was who had
greeted Frank and his friends at their entrance.

Immediately the gong was again sounded, and another door leading out of the drawing-room into
the dining-room was opened. The duke led the way, and then the guests followed. "Stick close
to me, Mr Gresham," said Athill, "we'll get about the middle of the table, where we shall be
cosy--and on the other side of the room, out of this dreadful draught--I know the place well,
Mr Gresham; stick to me."

Mr Athill, who was a pleasant, chatty companion, had hardly seated himself, and was talking
to Frank as quickly as he could, when Mr Fothergill, who sat at the bottom of the table, asked
him to say grace. It seemed to be quite out of the question that the duke should take any trouble
with his guests whatever. Mr Athill consequently dropped the word he was speaking, and uttered
a prayer--if it was a prayer--that they might all have grateful hearts for that which God was
about to give them.

If it was a prayer! As far as my own experience goes, such utterances are seldom prayers, seldom
can be prayers. And if not prayers, what then? To me it is unintelligible that the full tide
of glibbest chatter can be stopped at a moment in the midst of profuse good living, and the
Giver thanked becomingly in words of heartfelt praise. Setting aside for the moment what one
daily hears and sees, may not one declare that a change so sudden is not within the compass
of the human mind? But then, to such reasoning one cannot but add what one does hear and see;
one cannot but judge of the ceremony by the manner in which one sees it performed--uttered,
that is--and listened to. Clergymen there are--one meets them now and then--who endeavour to
give to the dinner-table grace some of the solemnity of a church ritual, and what is the effect?
Much the same as though one were to be interrupted for a minute in the midst of one of our
church liturgies to hear a drinking-song.

And it will be argued, that a man need be less thankful because, at the moment of receiving,
he utters no thanksgiving? or will it be thought that a man is made thankful because what is
called a grace is uttered after dinner? It can hardly be imagined that any one will so argue,
or so think.

Dinner-graces are, probably, the last remaining relic of certain daily services [1] which the
Church in olden days enjoined: nones, complines, and vespers were others. Of the nones and
complines we have happily got quit; and it might be well if we could get rid of the dinner-graces
also. Let any man ask himself whether, on his own part, they are acts of prayer and thanksgiving--and
if not that, what then?

   [Footnote 1: It is, I know, alleged that graces are said
   before dinner, because our Saviour uttered a blessing before
   his last supper. I cannot say that the idea of such analogy
   is pleasing to me.]

When the large party entered the dining-room one or two gentlemen might be seen to come in
from some other door and set themselves at the table near to the duke's chair. These were guests
of his own, who were staying in the house, his particular friends, the men with whom he lived:
the others were strangers whom he fed, perhaps once a year, in order that his name might be
known in the land as that of one who distributed food and wine hospitably through the county.
The food and wine, the attendance also, and the view of the vast repository of plate he vouchsafed
willingly to his county neighbours;--but it was beyond his good nature to talk to them. To
judge by the present appearance of most of them, they were quite as well satisfied to be left
alone.

Frank was altogether a stranger there, but Mr Athill knew every one at the table.

"That's Apjohn," said he: "don't you know, Mr Apjohn, the attorney from Barchester? he's always
here; he does some of Fothergill's law business, and makes himself useful. If any fellow knows
the value of a good dinner, he does. You'll see that the duke's hospitality will not be thrown
away on him."

"It's very much thrown away upon me, I know," said Frank, who could not at all put up with
the idea of sitting down to dinner without having been spoken to by his host.

"Oh, nonsense!" said his clerical friend; "you'll enjoy yourself amazingly by and by. There
is not such champagne in any other house in Barsetshire; and then the claret--" And Mr Athill
pressed his lips together, and gently shook his head, meaning to signify by the motion that
the claret of Gatherum Castle was sufficient atonement for any penance which a man might have
to go through in his mode of obtaining it.

"Who's that funny little man sitting there, next but one to Mr de Courcy? I never saw such
a queer fellow in my life."

"Don't you know old Bolus? Well, I thought every one in Barsetshire knew Bolus; you especially
should do so, as he is such a dear friend of Dr Thorne."

"A dear friend of Dr Thorne?"

"Yes; he was apothecary at Scarington in the old days, before Dr Fillgrave came into vogue.
I remember when Bolus was thought to be a very good sort of doctor."

"Is he--is he--" whispered Frank, "is he by way of a gentleman?"

"Ha! ha! ha! Well, I suppose we must be charitable, and say that he is quite as good, at any
rate, as many others there are here--" and Mr Athill, as he spoke, whispered into Frank's ear,
"You see there's Finnie here, another Barchester attorney. Now, I really think where Finnie
goes Bolus may go too."

"The more the merrier, I suppose," said Frank.

"Well, something a little like that. I wonder why Thorne is not here? I'm sure he was asked."

"Perhaps he did not particularly wish to meet Finnie and Bolus. Do you know, Mr Athill, I think
he was quite right not to come. As for myself, I wish I was anywhere else."

"Ha! ha! ha! You don't know the duke's ways yet; and what's more, you're young, you happy fellow!
But Thorne should have more sense; he ought to show himself here."

The gormandizing was now going on at a tremendous rate. Though the volubility of their tongues
had been for a while stopped by the first shock of the duke's presence, the guests seemed to
feel no such constraint upon their teeth. They fed, one may almost say, rabidly, and gave their
orders to the servants in an eager manner; much more impressive than that usual at smaller
parties. Mr Apjohn, who sat immediately opposite to Frank, had, by some well-planned manoeuvre,
contrived to get before him the jowl of a salmon; but, unfortunately, he was not for a while
equally successful in the article of sauce. A very limited portion--so at least thought Mr
Apjohn--had been put on his plate; and a servant, with a huge sauce tureen, absolutely passed
behind his back inattentive to his audible requests. Poor Mr Apjohn in his despair turned round
to arrest the man by his coat-tails; but he was a moment too late, and all but fell backwards
on the floor. As he righted himself he muttered an anathema, and looked with a face of anguish
at his plate.

"Anything the matter, Apjohn?" said Mr Fothergill, kindly, seeing the utter despair written
on the poor man's countenance; "can I get anything for you?"

"The sauce!" said Mr Apjohn, in a voice that would have melted a hermit; and as he looked at
Mr Fothergill, he pointed at the now distant sinner, who was dispensing his melted ambrosia
at least ten heads upwards, away from the unfortunate supplicant.

Mr Fothergill, however, knew where to look for balm for such wounds, and in a minute or two,
Mr Apjohn was employed quite to his heart's content.

"Well," said Frank to his neighbour, "it may be very well once in a way; but I think that on
the whole Dr Thorne is right."

"My dear Mr Gresham, see the world on all sides," said Mr Athill, who had also been somewhat
intent on the gratification of his own appetite, though with an energy less evident than that
of the gentleman opposite. "See the world on all sides if you have an opportunity; and, believe
me, a good dinner now and then is a very good thing."

"Yes; but I don't like eating it with hogs."

"Whish-h! softly, softly, Mr Gresham, or you'll disturb Mr Apjohn's digestion. Upon my word,
he'll want it all before he has done. Now, I like this kind of thing once in a way."

"Do you?" said Frank, in a tone that was almost savage.

"Yes; indeed I do. One sees so much character. And after all, what harm does it do?"

"My idea is that people should live with those whose society is pleasant to them."

"Live--yes, Mr Gresham--I agree with you there. It wouldn't do for me to live with the Duke
of Omnium; I shouldn't understand, or probably approve, his ways. Nor should I, perhaps, much
like the constant presence of Mr Apjohn. But now and then--once in a year or so--I do own I
like to see them both. Here's the cup; now, whatever you do, Mr Gresham, don't pass the cup
without tasting it."

And so the dinner passed on, slowly enough as Frank thought, but all too quickly for Mr Apjohn.
It passed away, and the wine came circulating freely. The tongues again were loosed, the teeth
being released from their labours, and under the influence of the claret the duke's presence
was forgotten.

But very speedily the coffee was brought. "This will soon be over now," said Frank, to himself,
thankfully; for, though he be no means despised good claret, he had lost his temper too completely
to enjoy it at the present moment. But he was much mistaken; the farce as yet was only at its
commencement. The duke took his cup of coffee, and so did the few friends who sat close to
him; but the beverage did not seem to be in great request with the majority of the guests.
When the duke had taken his modicum, he rose up and silently retired, saying no word and making
no sign. And then the farce commenced.

"Now, gentlemen," said Mr Fothergill, cheerily, "we are all right. Apjohn, is there claret
there? Mr Bolus, I know you stick to the Madeira; you are quite right, for there isn't much
of it left, and my belief is there'll never be more like it."

And so the duke's hospitality went on, and the duke's guests drank merrily for the next two hours.

"Shan't we see any more of him?" asked Frank.

"Any more of whom?" said Mr Athill.

"Of the duke?"

"Oh, no; you'll see no more of him. He always goes when the coffee comes. It's brought in as
an excuse. We've had enough of the light of his countenance to last till next year. The duke
and I are excellent friends; and have been so these fifteen years; but I never see more of
him than that."

"I shall go away," said Frank.

"Nonsense. Mr de Courcy and your other friend won't stir for this hour yet."

"I don't care. I shall walk on, and they may catch me. I may be wrong; but it seems to me that
a man insults me when he asks me to dine with him and never speaks to me. I don't care if he
be ten times Duke of Omnium; he can't be more than a gentleman, and as such I am his equal."
And then, having thus given vent to his feelings in somewhat high-flown language, he walked
forth and trudged away along the road towards Courcy.

Frank Gresham had been born and bred a Conservative, whereas the Duke of Omnium was well known
as a consistent Whig. There is no one so devoutly resolved to admit of no superior as your
Conservative, born and bred, no one so inclined to high domestic despotism as your thoroughgoing
consistent old Whig.

When he had proceeded about six miles, Frank was picked up by his friends; but even then his
anger had hardly cooled.

"Was the duke as civil as ever when you took your leave of him?" said he to his cousin George,
as he took his seat on the drag.

"The juke was jeuced jude wine--lem me tell you that, old fella," hiccupped out the Honourable
George, as he touched up the leader under the flank.

CHAPTER XX

The Proposal

And now the departures from Courcy Castle came rapidly one after another, and there remained
but one more evening before Miss Dunstable's carriage was to be packed. The countess, in the
early moments of Frank's courtship, had controlled his ardour and checked the rapidity of his
amorous professions; but as days, and at last weeks, wore away, she found that it was necessary
to stir the fire which she had before endeavoured to slacken.

"There will be nobody here to-night but our own circle," said she to him, "and I really think
you should tell Miss Dunstable what your intentions are. She will have fair ground to complain
of you if you do not."

Frank began to feel that he was in a dilemma. He had commenced making love to Miss Dunstable
partly because he liked the amusement, and partly from a satirical propensity to quiz his aunt
by appearing to fall into her scheme. But he had overshot the mark, and did not know what answer
to give when he was thus called upon to make a downright proposal. And then, although he did
not care two rushes about Miss Dunstable in the way of love, he nevertheless experienced a
sort of jealousy when he found that she appeared to be indifferent to him, and that she corresponded
the meanwhile with his cousin George. Though all their flirtations had been carried on on both
sides palpably by way of fun, though Frank had told himself ten times a day that his heart
was true to Mary Thorne, yet he had an undefined feeling that it behoved Miss Dunstable to
be a little in love with him. He was not quite at ease in that she was not a little melancholy
now that his departure was so nigh; and, above all, he was anxious to know what were the real
facts about that letter. He had in his own breast threatened Miss Dunstable with a heartache;
and now, when the time for their separation came, he found that his own heart was the more
likely to ache of the two.

"I suppose I must say something to her, or my aunt will never be satisfied," said he to himself
as he sauntered into the little drawing-room on that last evening. But at the very time he
was ashamed of himself, for he knew he was going to ask badly.

His sister and one of his cousins were in the room, but his aunt, who was quite on the alert,
soon got them out of it, and Frank and Miss Dunstable were alone.

"So all our fun and all our laughter is come to an end," said she, beginning the conversation.
"I don't know how you feel, but for myself I really am a little melancholy at the idea of parting;"
and she looked up at him with her laughing black eyes, as though she never had, and never could
have a care in the world.

"Melancholy! oh, yes; you look so," said Frank, who really did feel somewhat lackadaisically
sentimental.

"But how thoroughly glad the countess must be that we are both going," continued she. "I declare
we have treated her most infamously. Ever since we've been here we've had all the amusement
to ourselves. I've sometimes thought she would turn me out of the house."

"I wish with all my heart she had."

"Oh, you cruel barbarian! why on earth should you wish that?"

"That I might have joined you in your exile. I hate Courcy Castle, and should have rejoiced
to leave--and--and--"

"And what?"

"And I love Miss Dunstable, and should have doubly, trebly rejoiced to leave it with her."

Frank's voice quivered a little as he made this gallant profession; but still Miss Dunstable
only laughed the louder. "Upon my word, of all my knights you are by far the best behaved,"
said she, "and say much the prettiest things." Frank became rather red in the face, and felt
that he did so. Miss Dunstable was treating him like a boy. While she pretended to be so fond
of him she was only laughing at him, and corresponding the while with his cousin George. Now
Frank Gresham already entertained a sort of contempt for his cousin, which increased the bitterness
of his feelings. Could it really be possible that George had succeeded while he had utterly
failed; that his stupid cousin had touched the heart of the heiress while she was playing with
him as with a boy?

"Of all your knights! Is that the way you talk to me when we are going to part? When was it,
Miss Dunstable, that George de Courcy became one of them?"

Miss Dunstable for a while looked serious enough. "What makes you ask that?" said she. "What
makes you inquire about Mr de Courcy?"

"Oh, I have eyes, you know, and can't help seeing. Not that I see, or have seen anything that
I could possibly help."

"And what have you seen, Mr Gresham?"

"Why, I know you have been writing to him."

"Did he tell you so?"

"No; he did not tell me; but I know it."

For a moment she sat silent, and then her face again resumed its usual happy smile. "Come,
Mr Gresham, you are not going to quarrel with me, I hope, even if I did write a letter to your
cousin. Why should I not write to him? I correspond with all manner of people. I'll write to
you some of these days if you'll let me, and will promise to answer my letters."

Frank threw himself back on the sofa on which he was sitting, and, in doing so, brought himself
somewhat nearer to his companion than he had been; he then drew his hand slowly across his
forehead, pushing back his thick hair, and as he did so he sighed somewhat plaintively.

"I do not care," said he, "for the privilege of correspondence on such terms. If my cousin
George is to be a correspondent of yours also, I will give up my claim."

And then he sighed again, so that it was piteous to hear him. He was certainly an arrant puppy,
and an egregious ass into the bargain; but then, it must be remembered in his favour that he
was only twenty-one, and that much had been done to spoil him. Miss Dunstable did remember
this, and therefore abstained from laughing at him.

"Why, Mr Gresham, what on earth do you mean? In all human probability I shall never write another
line to Mr de Courcy; but, if I did, what possible harm could it do you?"

"Oh, Miss Dunstable! you do not in the least understand what my feelings are."

"Don't I? Then I hope I never shall. I thought I did. I thought they were the feelings of a
good, true-hearted friend; feelings that I could sometimes look back upon with pleasure as
being honest when so much that one meets is false. I have become very fond of you, Mr Gresham,
and I should be sorry to think that I did not understand your feelings."

This was almost worse and worse. Young ladies like Miss Dunstable--for she was still to be
numbered in the category of young ladies--do not usually tell young gentlemen that they are
very fond of them. To boys and girls they may make such a declaration. Now Frank Gresham regarded
himself as one who had already fought his battles, and fought them not without glory; he could
not therefore endure to be thus openly told by Miss Dunstable that she was very fond of him.

"Fond of me, Miss Dunstable! I wish you were."

"So I am--very."

"You little know how fond I am of you, Miss Dunstable," and he put out his hand to take hold
of hers. She then lifted up her own, and slapped him lightly on the knuckles.

"And what can you have to say to Miss Dunstable that can make it necessary that you should
pinch her hand? I tell you fairly, Mr Gresham, if you make a fool of yourself, I shall come
to a conclusion that you are all fools, and that it is hopeless to look out for any one worth
caring for."

Such advice as this, so kindly given, so wisely meant, so clearly intelligible, he should have
taken and understood, young as he was. But even yet he did not do so.

"A fool of myself! Yes; I suppose I must be a fool if I have so much regard for Miss Dunstable
as to make it painful for me to know that I am to see her no more: a fool: yes, of course I
am a fool--a man is always a fool when he loves."

Miss Dunstable could not pretend to doubt his meaning any longer; and was determined to stop
him, let it cost what it would. She now put out her hand, not over white, and, as Frank soon
perceived, gifted with a very fair allowance of strength.

"Now, Mr Gresham," said she, "before you go any further you shall listen to me. Will you listen
to me for a moment without interrupting me?"

Frank was of course obliged to promise that he would do so.

"You are going--or rather you were going, for I shall stop you--to make a profession of love."

"A profession!" said Frank making a slight unsuccessful effort to get his hand free.

"Yes; a profession--a false profession, Mr Gresham,--a false profession--a false profession.
Look into your heart--into your heart of hearts. I know you at any rate have a heart; look
into it closely. Mr Gresham, you know you do not love me; not as a man should love the woman
whom he swears to love."

Frank was taken aback. So appealed to he found that he could not any longer say that he did
love her. He could only look into her face with all his eyes, and sit there listening to her.

"How is it possible that you should love me? I am Heaven knows how many years your senior.
I am neither young nor beautiful, nor have I been brought up as she should be whom you in time
will really love and make your wife. I have nothing that should make you love me; but--but
I am rich."

"It is not that," said Frank, stoutly, feeling himself imperatively called upon to utter something
in his own defence.

"Ah, Mr Gresham, I fear it is that. For what other reason can you have laid your plans to talk
in this way to such a woman as I am?"

"I have laid no plans," said Frank, now getting his hand to himself. "At any rate, you wrong
me there, Miss Dunstable."

"I like you so well--nay, love you, if a woman may talk of love in the way of friendship--that
if money, money alone would make you happy, you should have it heaped on you. If you want it,
Mr Gresham, you shall have it."

"I have never thought of your money," said Frank, surlily.

"But it grieves me," continued she, "it does grieve me, to think that you, you, you--so young,
so gay, so bright--that you should have looked for it in this way. From others I have taken
it just as the wind that whistles;" and now two big slow tears escaped from her eyes, and would
have rolled down her rosy cheeks were it not that she brushed them off with the back of her hand.

"You have utterly mistaken me, Miss Dunstable," said Frank.

"If I have, I will humbly beg your pardon," said she. "But--but--but--"

"You have; indeed you have."

"How can I have mistaken you? Were you not about to say that you loved me; to talk absolute
nonsense; to make me an offer? If you were not, if I have mistaken you indeed, I will beg your
pardon."

Frank had nothing further to say in his own defence. He had not wanted Miss Dunstable's money--that
was true; but he could not deny that he had been about to talk that absolute nonsense of which
she spoke with so much scorn.

"You would almost make me think that there are none honest in this fashionable world of yours.
I well know why Lady de Courcy has had me here: how could I help knowing it? She has been so
foolish in her plans that ten times a day she has told her own secret. But I have said to myself
twenty times, that if she were crafty, you were honest."

"And am I dishonest?"

"I have laughed in my sleeve to see how she played her game, and to hear others around playing
theirs; all of them thinking that they could get the money of the poor fool who had come at
their beck and call; but I was able to laugh at them as long as I thought that I had one true
friend to laugh with me. But one cannot laugh with all the world against one."

"I am not against you, Miss Dunstable."

"Sell yourself for money! why, if I were a man I would not sell one jot of liberty for mountains
of gold. What! tie myself in the heyday of my youth to a person I could never love, for a price!
perjure myself, destroy myself--and not only myself, but her also, in order that I might live
idly! Oh, heavens! Mr Gresham! can it be that the words of such a woman as your aunt have sunk
so deeply in your heart; have blackened you so foully as to make you think of such vile folly
as this? Have you forgotten your soul, your spirit, your man's energy, the treasure of your
heart? And you, so young! For shame, Mr Gresham! for shame--for shame."

Frank found the task before him by no means an easy one. He had to make Miss Dunstable understand
that he had never had the slightest idea of marrying her, and that he had made love to her
merely with the object of keeping his hand in for the work as it were; with that object, and
the other equally laudable one of interfering with his cousin George.

And yet there was nothing for him but to get through this task as best he might. He was goaded
to it by the accusations which Miss Dunstable brought against him; and he began to feel, that
though her invective against him might be bitter when he had told the truth, they could not
be so bitter as those she now kept hinting at under her mistaken impression as to his views.
He had never had any strong propensity for money-hunting; but now that offence appeared in
his eyes abominable, unmanly, and disgusting. Any imputation would be better than that.

"Miss Dunstable, I never for a moment thought of doing what you accuse me of; on my honour,
I never did. I have been very foolish--very wrong--idiotic, I believe; but I have never intended
that."

"Then, Mr Gresham, what did you intend?"

This was rather a difficult question to answer; and Frank was not very quick in attempting
it. "I know you will not forgive me," he said at last; "and, indeed, I do not see how you can.
I don't know how it came about; but this is certain, Miss Dunstable; I have never for a moment
thought about your fortune; that is, thought about it in the way of coveting it."

"You never thought of making me your wife, then?"

"Never," said Frank, looking boldly into her face.

"You never intended really to propose to go with me to the altar, and then make yourself rich
by one great perjury?"

"Never for a moment," said he.

"You have never gloated over me as the bird of prey gloats over the poor beast that is soon
to become carrion beneath its claws? You have not counted me out as equal to so much land,
and calculated on me as a balance at your banker's? Ah, Mr Gresham," she continued, seeing
that he stared as though struck almost with awe by her strong language; "you little guess what
a woman situated as I am has to suffer."

"I have behaved badly to you, Miss Dunstable, and I beg your pardon; but I have never thought
of your money."

"Then we will be friends again, Mr Gresham, won't we? It is so nice to have a friend like you.
There, I think I understand it now; you need not tell me."

"It was half by way of making a fool of my aunt," said Frank, in an apologetic tone.

"There is merit in that, at any rate," said Miss Dunstable. "I understand it all now; you thought
to make a fool of me in real earnest. Well, I can forgive that; at any rate it is not mean."

It may be, that Miss Dunstable did not feel much acute anger at finding that this young man
had addressed her with words of love in the course of an ordinary flirtation, although that
flirtation had been unmeaning and silly. This was not the offence against which her heart and
breast had found peculiar cause to arm itself; this was not the injury from which she had hitherto
experienced suffering.

At any rate, she and Frank again became friends, and, before the evening was over, they perfectly
understood each other. Twice during this long tête-à-tête Lady de Courcy came into the room
to see how things were going on, and twice she went out almost unnoticed. It was quite clear
to her that something uncommon had taken place, was taking place, or would take place; and
that should this be for weal or for woe, no good could now come from her interference. On each
occasion, therefore, she smiled sweetly on the pair of turtle-doves, and glided out of the
room as quietly as she had glided into it.

But at last it became necessary to remove them; for the world had gone to bed. Frank, in the
meantime, had told to Miss Dunstable all his love for Mary Thorne, and Miss Dunstable had enjoined
him to be true to his vows. To her eyes there was something of heavenly beauty in young, true
love--of beauty that was heavenly because it had been unknown to her.

"Mind you let me hear, Mr Gresham," said she. "Mind you do; and, Mr Gresham, never, never forget
her for one moment; not for one moment, Mr Gresham."

Frank was about to swear that he never would--again, when the countess, for the third time,
sailed into the room.

"Young people," said she, "do you know what o'clock it is?"

"Dear me, Lady de Courcy, I declare it is past twelve; I really am ashamed of myself. How glad
you will be to get rid of me to-morrow!"

"No, no, indeed we shan't; shall we, Frank?" and so Miss Dunstable passed out.

Then once again the aunt tapped her nephew with her fan. It was the last time in her life that
she did so. He looked up in her face, and his look was enough to tell her that the acres of
Greshamsbury were not to be reclaimed by the ointment of Lebanon.

Nothing further on the subject was said. On the following morning Miss Dunstable took her departure,
not much heeding the rather cold words of farewell which her hostess gave her; and on the following
day Frank started for Greshamsbury.

CHAPTER XXI

Mr Moffat Falls into Trouble

We will now, with the reader's kind permission, skip over some months in our narrative. Frank
returned from Courcy Castle to Greshamsbury, and having communicated to his mother--much in
the same manner as he had to the countess--the fact that his mission had been unsuccessful,
he went up after a day or two to Cambridge. During his short stay at Greshamsbury he did not
even catch a glimpse of Mary. He asked for her, of course, and was told that it was not likely
that she would be at the house just at present. He called at the doctor's, but she was denied
to him there; "she was out," Janet said,--"probably with Miss Oriel." He went to the parsonage
and found Miss Oriel at home; but Mary had not been seen that morning. He then returned to
the house; and, having come to the conclusion that she had not thus vanished into air, otherwise
than by preconcerted arrangement, he boldly taxed Beatrice on the subject.

Beatrice looked very demure; declared that no one in the house had quarrelled with Mary; confessed
that it had been thought prudent that she should for a while stay away from Greshamsbury; and,
of course, ended by telling her brother everything, including all the scenes that had passed
between Mary and herself.

"It is out of the question your thinking of marrying her, Frank," said she. "You must know
that nobody feels it more strongly than poor Mary herself;" and Beatrice looked the very personification
of domestic prudence.

"I know nothing of the kind," said he, with the headlong imperative air that was usual with
him in discussing matters with his sisters. "I know nothing of the kind. Of course I cannot
say what Mary's feelings may be: a pretty life she must have had of it among you. But you may
be sure of this, Beatrice, and so may my mother, that nothing on earth shall make me give her
up--nothing." And Frank, as he made the protestation, strengthened his own resolution by thinking
of all the counsel that Miss Dunstable had given him.

The brother and sister could hardly agree, as Beatrice was dead against the match. Not that
she would not have liked Mary Thorne for a sister-in-law, but that she shared to a certain
degree the feeling which was now common to all the Greshams--that Frank must marry money. It
seemed, at any rate, to be imperative that he should either do that or not marry at all. Poor
Beatrice was not very mercenary in her views: she had no wish to sacrifice her brother to any
Miss Dunstable; but yet she felt, as they all felt--Mary Thorne included--that such a match
as that, of the young heir with the doctor's niece, was not to be thought of;--not to be spoken
of as a thing that was in any way possible. Therefore, Beatrice, though she was Mary's great
friend, though she was her brother's favourite sister, could give Frank no encouragement. Poor
Frank! circumstances had made but one bride possible to him: he must marry money.

His mother said nothing to him on the subject: when she learnt that the affair with Miss Dunstable
was not to come off, she merely remarked that it would perhaps be best for him to return to
Cambridge as soon as possible. Had she spoken her mind out, she would probably have also advised
him to remain there as long as possible. The countess had not omitted to write to her when
Frank left Courcy Castle; and the countess's letter certainly made the anxious mother think
that her son's education had hardly yet been completed. With this secondary object, but with
that of keeping him out of the way of Mary Thorne in the first place, Lady Arabella was now
quite satisfied that her son should enjoy such advantages as an education completed at the
university might give him.

With his father Frank had a long conversation; but, alas! the gist of his father's conversation
was this, that it behoved him, Frank, to marry money. The father, however, did not put it to
him in the cold, callous way in which his lady-aunt had done, and his lady-mother. He did not
bid him go and sell himself to the first female he could find possessed of wealth. It was with
inward self-reproaches, and true grief of spirit, that the father told the son that it was
not possible for him to do as those who may do who are born really rich, or really poor.

"If you marry a girl without a fortune, Frank, how are you to live?" the father asked, after
having confessed how deep he himself had injured his own heir.

"I don't care about money, sir," said Frank. "I shall be just as happy as if Boxall Hill had
never been sold. I don't care a straw about that sort of thing."

"Ah! my boy; but you will care: you will soon find that you do care."

"Let me go into some profession. Let me go to the Bar. I am sure I could earn my own living.
Earn it! of course I could, why not I as well as others? I should like of all things to be
a barrister."

There was much more of the same kind, in which Frank said all that he could think of to lessen
his father's regrets. In their conversation not a word was spoken about Mary Thorne. Frank
was not aware whether or no his father had been told of the great family danger which was dreaded
in that quarter. That he had been told, we may surmise, as Lady Arabella was not wont to confine
the family dangers to her own bosom. Moreover, Mary's presence had, of course, been missed.
The truth was, that the squire had been told, with great bitterness, of what had come to pass,
and all the evil had been laid at his door. He it had been who hand encouraged Mary to be regarded
almost as a daughter of the house of Greshamsbury; he it was who taught that odious doctor--odious
in all but his aptitude for good doctoring--to think himself a fit match for the aristocracy
of the county. It had been his fault, this great necessity that Frank should marry money; and
now it was his fault that Frank was absolutely talking of marrying a pauper.

By no means in quiescence did the squire hear these charges brought against him. The Lady Arabella,
in each attack, got quite as much as she gave, and, at last, was driven to retreat in a state
of headache, which she declared to be chronic; and which, so she assured her daughter Augusta,
must prevent her from having any more lengthened conversations with her lord--at any rate for
the next three months. But though the squire may be said to have come off on the whole as victor
in these combats, they did not perhaps have, on that account, the less effect upon him. He
knew it was true that he had done much towards ruining his son; and he also could think of
no other remedy than matrimony. It was Frank's doom, pronounced even by the voice of his father,
that he must marry money.

And so, Frank went off again to Cambridge, feeling himself, as he went, to be a much lesser
man in Greshamsbury estimation than he had been some two months earlier, when his birthday
had been celebrated. Once during his short stay at Greshamsbury he had seen the doctor; but
the meeting had been anything but pleasant. He had been afraid to ask after Mary; and the doctor
had been too diffident of himself to speak of her. They had met casually on the road, and,
though each in his heart loved the other, the meeting had been anything but pleasant.

And so Frank went back to Cambridge; and, as he did so, he stoutly resolved that nothing should
make him untrue to Mary Thorne. "Beatrice," said he, on the morning he went away, when she
came into his room to superintend his packing--"Beatrice, if she ever talks about me--"

"Oh, Frank, my darling Frank, don't think of it--it is madness; she knows it is madness."

"Never mind; if she ever talks about me, tell her that the last word I said was, that I would
never forget her. She can do as she likes."

Beatrice made no promise, never hinted that she would give the message; but it may be taken
for granted that she had not been long in company with Mary Thorne before she did give it.

And then there were other troubles at Greshamsbury. It had been decided that Augusta's marriage
was to take place in September; but Mr Moffat had, unfortunately, been obliged to postpone
the happy day. He himself had told Augusta--not, of course, without protestations as to his
regret--and had written to this effect to Mr Gresham, "Electioneering matters, and other troubles
had," he said, "made this peculiarly painful postponement absolutely necessary."

Augusta seemed to bear her misfortune with more equanimity than is, we believe, usual with
young ladies under such circumstances. She spoke of it to her mother in a very matter-of-fact
way, and seemed almost contented at the idea of remaining at Greshamsbury till February; which
was the time now named for the marriage. But Lady Arabella was not equally well satisfied,
nor was the squire.

"I half believe that fellow is not honest," he had once said out loud before Frank, and this
set Frank a-thinking of what dishonesty in the matter it was probable that Mr Moffat might
be guilty, and what would be the fitting punishment for such a crime. Nor did he think on the
subject in vain; especially after a conference on the matter which he had with his friend Harry
Baker. This conference took place during the Christmas vacation.

It should be mentioned, that the time spent by Frank at Courcy Castle had not done much to
assist him in his views as to an early degree, and that it had at last been settled that he
should stay up at Cambridge another year. When he came home at Christmas he found that the
house was not peculiarly lively. Mary was absent on a visit with Miss Oriel. Both these young
ladies were staying with Miss Oriel's aunt, in the neighbourhood of London; and Frank soon
learnt that there was no chance that either of them would be home before his return. No message
had been left for him by Mary--none at least had been left with Beatrice; and he began in his
heart to accuse her of coldness and perfidy;--not, certainly, with much justice, seeing that
she had never given him the slightest encouragement.

The absence of Patience Oriel added to the dullness of the place. It was certainly hard upon
Frank that all the attraction of the village should be removed to make way and prepare for
his return--harder, perhaps, on them; for, to tell the truth, Miss Oriel's visit had been entirely
planned to enable her to give Mary a comfortable way of leaving Greshamsbury during the time
that Frank should remain at home. Frank thought himself cruelly used. But what did Mr Oriel
think when doomed to eat his Christmas pudding alone, because the young squire would be unreasonable
in his love? What did the doctor think, as he sat solitary by his deserted hearth--the doctor,
who no longer permitted himself to enjoy the comforts of the Greshamsbury dining-table? Frank
hinted and grumbled; talked to Beatrice of the determined constancy of his love, and occasionally
consoled himself by a stray smile from some of the neighbouring belles. The black horse was
made perfect; the old grey pony was by no means discarded; and much that was satisfactory was
done in the sporting line. But still the house was dull, and Frank felt that he was the cause
of its being so. Of the doctor he saw but little: he never came to Greshamsbury unless to see
Lady Arabella as doctor, or to be closeted with the squire. There were no social evenings with
him; no animated confabulations at the doctor's house; no discourses between them, as there
had wont to be, about the merits of the different covers, and the capacities of the different
hounds. These were dull days on the whole for Frank; and sad enough, we may say, for our friend
the doctor.

In February, Frank again went back to college; having settled with Harry Baker certain affairs
which weighed on his mind. He went back to Cambridge, promising to be home on the 20th of the
month, so as to be present at his sister's wedding. A cold and chilling time had been named
for these hymeneal joys, but one not altogether unsuited to the feelings of the happy pair.
February is certainly not a warm month; but with the rich it is generally a cosy, comfortable
time. Good fires, winter cheer, groaning tables, and warm blankets, make a fictitious summer,
which, to some tastes, is more delightful than the long days and the hot sun. And some marriages
are especially winter matches. They depend for their charm on the same substantial attractions:
instead of heart beating to heart in sympathetic unison, purse chinks to purse. The rich new
furniture of the new abode is looked to instead of the rapture of a pure embrace. The new carriage
is depended on rather than the new heart's companion; and the first bright gloss, prepared
by the upholsterer's hands, stands in lieu of the rosy tints which young love lends to his
true votaries.

Mr Moffat had not spent his Christmas at Greshamsbury. That eternal election petition, those
eternal lawyers, the eternal care of his well-managed wealth, forbade him the enjoyment of
any such pleasures. He could not come to Greshamsbury for Christmas, nor yet for the festivities
of the new year; but now and then he wrote prettily worded notes, sending occasionally a silver-gilt
pencil-case, or a small brooch, and informed Lady Arabella that he looked forward to the 20th
of February with great satisfaction. But, in the meanwhile, the squire became anxious, and
at last went up to London; and Frank, who was at Cambridge, bought the heaviest cutting whip
to be found in that town, and wrote a confidential letter to Harry Baker.

Poor Mr Moffat! It is well known that none but the brave deserve the fair; but thou, without
much excuse for bravery, had secured for thyself one who, at any rate, was fair enough for
thee. Would it not have been well hadst thou looked into thyself to see what real bravery might
be in thee, before thou hadst prepared to desert this fair one thou hadst already won? That
last achievement, one may say, did require some special courage.

Poor Mr Moffat! It is wonderful that as he sat in that gig, going to Gatherum Castle, planning
how he would be off with Miss Gresham and afterwards on with Miss Dunstable, it is wonderful
that he should not then have cast his eye behind him, and looked at that stalwart pair of shoulders
which were so close to his own back. As he afterwards pondered on his scheme while sipping
the duke's claret, it is odd that he should not have observed the fiery pride of purpose and
power of wrath which was so plainly written on that young man's brow: or, when he matured,
and finished, and carried out his purpose, that he did not think of that keen grasp which had
already squeezed his own hand with somewhat too warm a vigour, even in the way of friendship.

Poor Mr Moffat! it is probable that he forgot to think of Frank at all as connected with his
promised bride; it is probable that he looked forward only to the squire's violence and the
enmity of the house of Courcy; and that he found from enquiry at his heart's pulses, that he
was man enough to meet these. Could he have guessed what a whip Frank Gresham would have bought
at Cambridge--could he have divined what a letter would have been written to Harry Baker--it
is probable, nay, we think we may say certain, that Miss Gresham would have become Mrs Moffat.

Miss Gresham, however, never did become Mrs Moffat. About two days after Frank's departure
for Cambridge--it is just possible that Mr Moffat was so prudent as to make himself aware of
the fact--but just two days after Frank's departure, a very long, elaborate, and clearly explanatory
letter was received at Greshamsbury. Mr Moffat was quite sure that Miss Gresham and her very
excellent parents would do him the justice to believe that he was not actuated, &c., &c., &c.
The long and the short of this was, that Mr Moffat signified his intention of breaking off
the match without offering any intelligible reason.

Augusta again bore her disappointment well: not, indeed, without sorrow and heartache, and
inward, hidden tears; but still well. She neither raved, nor fainted, nor walked about by moonlight
alone. She wrote no poetry, and never once thought of suicide. When, indeed, she remembered
the rosy-tinted lining, the unfathomable softness of that Long-acre carriage, her spirit did
for one moment give way; but, on the whole, she bore it as a strong-minded woman and a de Courcy
should do.

But both Lady Arabella and the squire were greatly vexed. The former had made the match, and
the latter, having consented to it, had incurred deeper responsibilities to enable him to bring
it about. The money which was to have been given to Mr Moffat was still to the fore; but alas!
how much, how much that he could ill spare, had been thrown away on bridal preparations! It
is, moreover, an unpleasant thing for a gentleman to have his daughter jilted; perhaps peculiarly
so to have her jilted by a tailor's son.

Lady Arabella's woe was really piteous. It seemed to her as though cruel fate were heaping
misery after misery upon the wretched house of Greshamsbury. A few weeks since things were
going so well with her! Frank then was all but the accepted husband of almost untold wealth--so,
at least, she was informed by her sister-in-law--whereas, Augusta, was the accepted wife of
wealth, not indeed untold, but of dimensions quite sufficiently respectable to cause much joy
in the telling. Where now were her golden hopes? Where now the splendid future of her poor
duped children? Augusta was left to pine alone; and Frank, in a still worse plight, insisted
on maintaining his love for a bastard and a pauper.

For Frank's affair she had received some poor consolation by laying all the blame on the squire's
shoulders. What she had then said was now repaid to her with interest; for not only had she
been the maker of Augusta's match, but she had boasted of the deed with all a mother's pride.

It was from Beatrice that Frank had obtained his tidings. This last resolve on the part of
Mr Moffat had not altogether been unsuspected by some of the Greshams, though altogether unsuspected
by the Lady Arabella. Frank had spoken of it as a possibility to Beatrice, and was not quite
unprepared when the information reached him. He consequently bought his big cutting whip, and
wrote his confidential letter to Harry Baker.

On the following day Frank and Harry might have been seen, with their heads nearly close together,
leaning over one of the tables in the large breakfast-room at the Tavistock Hotel in Covent
Garden. The ominous whip, to the handle of which Frank had already made his hand well accustomed,
was lying on the table between them; and ever and anon Harry Baker would take it up and feel
its weight approvingly. Oh, Mr Moffat! poor Mr Moffat! go not out into the fashionable world
to-day; above all, go not to that club of thine in Pall Mall; but, oh! especially go not there,
as is thy wont to do, at three o'clock in the afternoon!

With much care did those two young generals lay their plans of attack. Let it not for a moment
be thought that it was ever in the minds of either of them that two men should attack one.
But it was thought that Mr Moffat might be rather coy in coming out from his seclusion to meet
the proffered hand of his once intended brother-in-law when he should see that hand armed with
a heavy whip. Baker, therefore, was content to act as a decoy duck, and remarked that he might
no doubt make himself useful in restraining the public mercy, and, probably, in controlling
the interference of policemen.

"It will be deuced hard if I can't get five or six shies at him," said Frank, again clutching
his weapon almost spasmodically. Oh, Mr Moffat! five or six shies with such a whip, and such
an arm! For myself, I would sooner join in a second Balaclava gallop than encounter it.

At ten minutes before four these two heroes might be seen walking up Pall Mall, towards the
---- Club. Young Baker walked with an eager disengaged air. Mr Moffat did not know his appearance;
he had, therefore, no anxiety to pass along unnoticed. But Frank had in some mysterious way
drawn his hat very far over his forehead, and had buttoned his shooting-coat up round his chin.
Harry had recommended to him a great-coat, in order that he might the better conceal his face;
but Frank had found that the great-coat was an encumbrance to his arm. He put it on, and when
thus clothed he had tried the whip, he found that he cut the air with much less potency than
in the lighter garment. He contented himself, therefore, with looking down on the pavement
as he walked along, letting the long point of the whip stick up from his pocket, and flattering
himself that even Mr Moffat would not recognise him at the first glance. Poor Mr Moffat! If
he had but had the chance!

And now, having arrived at the front of the club, the two friends for a moment separate: Frank
remains standing on the pavement, under the shade of the high stone area-railing, while Harry
jauntily skips up three steps at a time, and with a very civil word of inquiry of the hall
porter, sends in his card to Mr Moffat--

   MR HARRY BAKER

Mr Moffat, never having heard of such a gentleman in his life, unwittingly comes out into the
hall, and Harry, with the sweetest smile, addresses him.

Now the plan of the campaign had been settled in this wise: Baker was to send into the club
for Mr Moffat, and invite that gentleman down into the street. It was probable that the invitation
might be declined; and it had been calculated in such case that the two gentlemen would retire
for parley into the strangers' room, which was known to be immediately opposite the hall door.
Frank was to keep his eye on the portals, and if he found that Mr Moffat did not appear as
readily as might be desired, he also was to ascend the steps and hurry into the strangers'
room. Then, whether he met Mr Moffat there or elsewhere, or wherever he might meet him, he
was to greet him with all the friendly vigour in his power, while Harry disposed of the club
porters.

But fortune, who ever favours the brave, specially favoured Frank Gresham on this occasion.
Just as Harry Baker had put his card into the servant's hand, Mr Moffat, with his hat on, prepared
for the street, appeared in the hall; Mr Baker addressed him with his sweetest smile, and begged
the pleasure of saying a word or two as they descended into the street. Had not Mr Moffat been
going thither it would have been very improbable that he should have done so at Harry's instance.
But, as it was, he merely looked rather solemn at his visitor--it was his wont to look solemn--and
continued the descent of the steps.

Frank, his heart leaping the while, saw his prey, and retreated two steps behind the area-railing,
the dread weapon already well poised in his hand. Oh! Mr Moffat! Mr Moffat! if there be any
goddess to interfere in thy favour, let her come forward now without delay; let her now bear
thee off on a cloud if there be one to whom thou art sufficiently dear! But there is no such
goddess.

Harry smiled blandly till they were well on the pavement, saying some nothing, and keeping
the victim's face averted from the avenging angel; and then, when the raised hand was sufficiently
nigh, he withdrew two steps towards the nearest lamp-post. Not for him was the honour of the
interview;--unless, indeed, succouring policemen might give occasion for some gleam of glory.

But succouring policemen were no more to be come by than goddesses. Where were ye, men, when
that savage whip fell about the ears of the poor ex-legislator? In Scotland Yard, sitting dozing
on your benches, or talking soft nothings to the housemaids round the corner; for ye were not
walking on your beats, nor standing at coign of vantage, to watch the tumults of the day. But
had ye been there what could ye have done? Had Sir Richard himself been on the spot Frank Gresham
would still, we may say, have had his five shies at that unfortunate one.

When Harry Baker quickly seceded from the way, Mr Moffat at once saw the fate before him. His
hair doubtless stood on end, and his voice refused to give the loud screech with which he sought
to invoke the club. An ashy paleness suffused his cheeks, and his tottering steps were unable
to bear him away in flight. Once, and twice, the cutting whip came well down across his back.
Had he been wise enough to stand still and take his thrashing in that attitude, it would have
been well for him. But men so circumstanced have never such prudence. After two blows he made
a dash at the steps, thinking to get back into the club; but Harry, who had by no means reclined
in idleness against the lamp-post, here stopped him: "You had better go back into the street,"
said Harry; "indeed you had," giving him a shove from off the second step.

Then of course Frank could not do other than hit him anywhere. When a gentleman is dancing
about with much energy it is hardly possible to strike him fairly on his back. The blows, therefore,
came now on his legs and now on his head; and Frank unfortunately got more than his five or
six shies before he was interrupted.

The interruption however came, all too soon for Frank's idea of justice. Though there be no
policeman to take part in a London row, there are always others ready enough to do so; amateur
policemen, who generally sympathise with the wrong side, and, in nine cases out of ten, expend
their generous energy in protecting thieves and pickpockets. When it was seen with what tremendous
ardour that dread weapon fell about the ears of the poor undefended gentleman, interference
there was at last, in spite of Harry Baker's best endeavours, and loudest protestations.

"Do not interrupt them, sir," said he; "pray do not. It is a family affair, and they will neither
of them like it."

In the teeth, however, of these assurances, rude people did interfere, and after some nine
or ten shies Frank found himself encompassed by the arms, and encumbered by the weight of a
very stout gentleman, who hung affectionately about his neck and shoulders; whereas, Mr Moffat
was already receiving consolation from two motherly females, sitting in a state of syncope
on the good-natured knees of a fishmonger's apprentice.

Frank was thoroughly out of breath: nothing came from his lips but half-muttered expletives
and unintelligible denunciations of the iniquity of his foe. But still he struggled to be at
him again. We all know how dangerous is the taste of blood; now cruelty will become a custom
even with the most tender-hearted. Frank felt that he had hardly fleshed his virgin lash: he
thought, almost with despair, that he had not yet at all succeeded as became a man and a brother;
his memory told him of but one or two of the slightest touches that had gone well home to the
offender. He made a desperate effort to throw off that incubus round his neck and rush again
to the combat.

"Harry--Harry; don't let him go--don't let him go," he barely articulated.

"Do you want to murder the man, sir; to murder him?" said the stout gentleman over his shoulder,
speaking solemnly into his very ear.

"I don't care," said Frank, struggling manfully but uselessly. "Let me out, I say; I don't
care--don't let him go, Harry, whatever you do."

"He has got it prettily tidily," said Harry; "I think that will perhaps do for the present."

By this time there was a considerable concourse. The club steps were crowded with the members;
among whom there were many of Mr Moffat's acquaintance. Policemen also now flocked up, and
the question arose as to what should be done with the originators of the affray. Frank and
Harry found that they were to consider themselves under a gentle arrest, and Mr Moffat, in
a fainting state, was carried into the interior of the club.

Frank, in his innocence, had intended to have celebrated this little affair when it was over
by a light repast and a bottle of claret with his friend, and then to have gone back to Cambridge
by the mail train. He found, however, that his schemes in this respect were frustrated. He
had to get bail to attend at Marlborough Street police-office should he be wanted within the
next two or three days; and was given to understand that he would be under the eye of the police,
at any rate until Mr Moffat should be out of danger.

"Out of danger!" said Frank to his friend with a startled look. "Why I hardly got at him."
Nevertheless, they did have their slight repast, and also their bottle of claret.

On the second morning after this occurrence, Frank was again sitting in that public room at
the Tavistock, and Harry was again sitting opposite to him. The whip was not now so conspicuously
produced between them, having been carefully packed up and put away among Frank's other travelling
properties. They were so sitting, rather glum, when the door swung open, and a heavy, quick
step was heard advancing towards them. It was the squire; whose arrival there had been momentarily
expected.

"Frank," said he--"Frank, what on earth is all this?" and as he spoke he stretched out both
hands, the right to his son and the left to his friend.

"He has given a blackguard a licking, that is all," said Harry.

Frank felt that his hand was held with a peculiarly warm grasp; and he could not but think
that his father's face, raised though his eyebrows were--though there was on it an intended
expression of amazement and, perhaps, regret--nevertheless he could not but think that his
father's face looked kindly at him.

"God bless my soul, my dear boy! what have you done to the man?"

"He's not a ha'porth the worse, sir," said Frank, still holding his father's hand.

"Oh, isn't he!" said Harry, shrugging his shoulders. "He must be made of some very tough article
then."

"But my dear boys, I hope there's no danger. I hope there's no danger."

"Danger!" said Frank, who could not yet induce himself to believe that he had been allowed
a fair chance with Mr Moffat.

"Oh, Frank! Frank! how could you be so rash? In the middle of Pall Mall, too. Well! well! well!
All the women down at Greshamsbury will have it that you have killed him."

"I almost wish I had," said Frank.

"Oh, Frank! Frank! But now tell me--"

And then the father sat well pleased while he heard, chiefly from Harry Baker, the full story
of his son's prowess. And then they did not separate without another slight repast and another
bottle of claret.

Mr Moffat retired to the country for a while, and then went abroad; having doubtless learnt
that the petition was not likely to give him a seat for the city of Barchester. And this was
the end of the wooing with Miss Gresham.

CHAPTER XXII

Sir Roger Is Unseated

After this, little occurred at Greshamsbury, or among Greshamsbury people, which it will be
necessary for us to record. Some notice was, of course, taking of Frank's prolonged absence
from his college; and tidings, perhaps exaggerated tidings, of what had happened in Pall Mall
were not slow to reach the High Street of Cambridge. But that affair was gradually hushed up;
and Frank went on with his studies.

He went back to his studies: it then being an understood arrangement between him and his father
that he should not return to Greshamsbury till the summer vacation. On this occasion, the squire
and Lady Arabella had, strange to say, been of the same mind. They both wished to keep their
son away from Miss Thorne; and both calculated, that at his age and with his disposition, it
was not probable that any passion would last out a six months' absence. "And when the summer
comes it will be an excellent opportunity for us to go abroad," said Lady Arabella. "Poor Augusta
will require some change to renovate her spirits."

To this last proposition the squire did not assent. It was, however, allowed to pass over;
and this much was fixed, that Frank was not to return home till midsummer.

It will be remembered that Sir Roger Scatcherd had been elected as sitting member for the city
of Barchester; but it will also be remembered that a petition against his return was threatened.
Had that petition depended solely on Mr Moffat, Sir Roger's seat no doubt would have been saved
by Frank Gresham's cutting whip. But such was not the case. Mr Moffat had been put forward
by the de Courcy interest; and that noble family with its dependants was not to go to the wall
because Mr Moffat had had a thrashing. No; the petition was to go on; and Mr Nearthewinde declared,
that no petition in his hands had half so good a chance of success. "Chance, no, but certainty,"
said Mr Nearthewinde; for Mr Nearthewinde had learnt something with reference to that honest
publican and the payment of his little bill.

The petition was presented and duly backed; the recognisances were signed, and all the proper
formalities formally executed; and Sir Roger found that his seat was in jeopardy. His return
had been a great triumph to him; and, unfortunately, he had celebrated that triumph as he had
been in the habit of celebrating most of the very triumphant occasions of his life. Though
he was than hardly yet recovered from the effects of his last attack, he indulged in another
violent drinking bout; and, strange to say, did so without any immediate visible bad effects.

In February he took his seat amidst the warm congratulations of all men of his own class, and
early in the month of April his case came on for trial. Every kind of electioneering sin known
to the electioneering world was brought to his charge; he was accused of falseness, dishonesty,
and bribery of every sort: he had, it was said in the paper of indictment, bought votes, obtained
them by treating, carried them off by violence, conquered them by strong drink, polled them
twice over, counted those of dead men, stolen them, forged them, and created them by every
possible, fictitious contrivance: there was no description of wickedness appertaining to the
task of procuring votes of which Sir Roger had not been guilty, either by himself or by his
agents. He was quite horror-struck at the list of his own enormities. But he was somewhat comforted
when Mr Closerstil told him that the meaning of it all was that Mr Romer, the barrister, had
paid a former bill due to Mr Reddypalm, the publican.

"I fear he was indiscreet, Sir Roger; I really fear he was. Those young mean always are. Being
energetic, they work like horses; but what's the use of energy without discretion, Sir Roger?"

"But, Mr Closerstil, I knew nothing about it from first to last."

"The agency can be proved, Sir Roger," said Mr Closerstil, shaking his head. And then there
was nothing further to be said on the matter.

In these days of snow-white purity all political delinquency is abominable in the eyes of British
politicians; but no delinquency is so abominable as that of venality at elections. The sin
of bribery is damnable. It is the one sin for which, in the House of Commons, there can be
no forgiveness. When discovered, it should render the culprit liable to political death, without
hope of pardon. It is treason against a higher throne than that on which the Queen sits. It
is a heresy which requires an auto-da-fé. It is a pollution to the whole House, which can only
be cleansed by a great sacrifice. Anathema maranatha! out with it from amongst us, even though
the half of our heart's blood be poured forth in the conflict! out with it, and for ever!

Such is the language of patriotic members with regard to bribery; and doubtless, if sincere,
they are in the right. It is a bad thing, certainly, that a rich man should buy votes; bad
also that a poor man should sell them. By all means let us repudiate such a system with heartfelt
disgust.

With heartfelt disgust, if we can do so, by all means; but not with disgust pretended only
and not felt in the heart at all. The laws against bribery at elections are now so stringent
that an unfortunate candidate may easily become guilty, even though actuated by the purest
intentions. But not the less on that account does any gentleman, ambitious of the honour of
serving his country in Parliament, think it necessary as a preliminary measure to provide a
round sum of money at his banker's. A candidate must pay for no treating, no refreshments,
no band of music; he must give neither ribbons to the girls nor ale to the men. If a huzza
be uttered in his favour, it is at his peril; it may be necessary for him to prove before a
committee that it was the spontaneous result of British feeling in his favour, and not the
purchased result of British beer. He cannot safely ask any one to share his hotel dinner. Bribery
hides itself now in the most impalpable shapes, and may be effected by the offer of a glass
of sherry. But not the less on this account does a poor man find that he is quite unable to
overcome the difficulties of a contested election.

We strain at our gnats with a vengeance, but we swallow our camels with ease. For what purpose
is it that we employ those peculiarly safe men of business--Messrs Nearthewinde and Closerstil--when
we wish to win our path through all obstacles into that sacred recess, if all be so open, all
so easy, all so much above board? Alas! the money is still necessary, is still prepared, or
at any rate expended. The poor candidate of course knows nothing of the matter till the attorney's
bill is laid before him, when all danger of petitions has passed away. He little dreamed till
then, not he, that there had been banquetings and junketings, secret doings and deep drinkings
at his expense. Poor candidate! Poor member! Who was so ignorant as he! 'Tis true he has paid
such bills before; but 'tis equally true that he specially begged his managing friend, Mr Nearthewinde,
to be very careful that all was done according to law! He pays the bill, however, and on the
next election will again employ Mr Nearthewinde.

Now and again, at rare intervals, some glimpse into the inner sanctuary does reach the eyes
of ordinary mortal men without; some slight accidental peep into those mysteries from whence
all corruption has been so thoroughly expelled; and then, how delightfully refreshing is the
sight, when, perhaps, some ex-member, hurled from his paradise like a fallen peri, reveals
the secret of that pure heaven, and, in the agony of his despair, tells us all that it cost
him to sit for ---- through those few halcyon years!

But Mr Nearthewinde is a safe man, and easy to be employed with but little danger. All these
stringent bribery laws only enhance the value of such very safe men as Mr Nearthewinde. To
him, stringent laws against bribery are the strongest assurance of valuable employment. Were
these laws of a nature to be evaded with ease, any indifferent attorney might manage a candidate's
affairs and enable him to take his seat with security.

It would have been well for Sir Roger if he had trusted solely to Mr Closerstil; well also
for Mr Romer had he never fished in those troubled waters. In due process of time the hearing
of the petition came on, and then who so happy, sitting at his ease at his London Inn, blowing
his cloud from a long pipe, with measureless content, as Mr Reddypalm? Mr Reddypalm was the
one great man of the contest. All depended on Mr Reddypalm; and well he did his duty.

The result of the petition was declared by the committee to be as follows:--that Sir Roger's
election was null and void--that the election altogether was null and void--that Sir Roger
had, by his agent, been guilty of bribery in obtaining a vote, by the payment of a bill alleged
to have been previously refused payment--that Sir Roger himself knew nothing about it;--this
is always a matter of course;--but  that Sir Roger's agent, Mr Romer, had been wittingly guilty
of bribery with reference to the transaction above described. Poor Sir Roger! Poor Mr Romer.

Poor Mr Romer indeed! His fate was perhaps as sad as well might be, and as foul a blot to the
purism of these very pure times in which we live. Not long after those days, it so happening
that some considerable amount of youthful energy and quidnunc ability were required to set
litigation afloat at Hong-Kong, Mr Romer was sent thither as the fittest man for such work,
with rich assurance of future guerdon. Who so happy then as Mr Romer! But even among the pure
there is room for envy and detraction. Mr Romer had not yet ceased to wonder at new worlds,
as he skimmed among the islands of that southern ocean, before the edict had gone forth for
his return. There were men sitting in that huge court of Parliament on whose breasts it lay
as an intolerable burden, that England should be represented among the antipodes by one who
had tampered with the purity of the franchise. For them there was no rest till this great disgrace
should be wiped out and atoned for. Men they were of that calibre, that the slightest reflection
on them of such a stigma seemed to themselves to blacken their own character. They could not
break bread with satisfaction till Mr Romer was recalled. He was recalled, and of course ruined--and
the minds of those just men were then at peace.

To any honourable gentleman who really felt his brow suffused with a patriotic blush, as he
thought of his country dishonoured by Mr Romer's presence at Hong-Kong--to any such gentleman,
if any such there were, let all honour be given, even though the intensity of his purity may
create amazement to our less finely organised souls. But if no such blush suffused the brow
of any honourable gentleman; if Mr Romer was recalled from quite other feelings--what then
in lieu of honour shall we allot to those honourable gentlemen who were most concerned?

Sir Roger, however, lost his seat, and, after three months of the joys of legislation, found
himself reduced by a terrible blow to the low level of private life.

And the blow to him was very heavy. Men but seldom tell the truth of what is in them, even
to their dearest friends; they are ashamed of having feelings, or rather of showing that they
are troubled by any intensity of feeling. It is the practice of the time to treat all pursuits
as though they were only half important to us, as though in what we desire we were only half
in earnest. To be visibly eager seems childish, and is always bad policy; and men, therefore,
nowadays, though they strive as hard as ever in the service of ambition--harder than ever in
that of mammon--usually do so with a pleasant smile on, as though after all they were but amusing
themselves with the little matter in hand.

Perhaps it had been so with Sir Roger in those electioneering days when he was looking for
votes. At any rate, he had spoken of his seat in Parliament as but a doubtful good. "He was
willing, indeed, to stand, having been asked; but the thing would interfere wonderfully with
his business; and then, what did he know about Parliament? Nothing on earth: it was the maddest
scheme, but nevertheless, he was not going to hang back when called upon--he had always been
rough and ready when wanted,--and there he was now ready as ever, and rough enough too, God knows."

'Twas thus that he had spoken of his coming parliamentary honours; and men had generally taken
him at his word. He had been returned, and this success had been hailed as a great thing for
the cause and class to which he belonged. But men did not know that his inner heart was swelling
with triumph, and that his bosom could hardly contain his pride as he reflected that the poor
Barchester stone-mason was now the representative in Parliament of his native city. And so,
when his seat was attacked, he still laughed and joked. "They were welcome to it for him,"
he said; "he could keep it or want it; and of the two, perhaps, the want of it would come most
convenient to him. He did not exactly think that he had bribed any one; but if the bigwigs
chose to say so, it was all one to him. He was rough and ready, now as ever," &c., &c.

But when the struggle came, it was to him a fearful one; not the less fearful because there
was no one, no, not one friend in all the world, to whom he could open his mind and speak out
honestly what was in his heart. To Dr Thorne he might perhaps have done so had his intercourse
with the doctor been sufficiently frequent; but it was only now and again when he was ill,
or when the squire wanted to borrow money, that he saw Dr Thorne. He had plenty of friends,
heaps of friends in the parliamentary sense; friends who talked about him, and lauded him at
public meetings; who shook hands with him on platforms, and drank his health at dinners; but
he had no friend who could sit with him over his own hearth, in true friendship, and listen
to, and sympathise with, and moderate the sighings of the inner man. For him there was no sympathy;
no tenderness of love; no retreat, save into himself, from the loud brass band of the outer world.

The blow hit him terribly hard. It did not come altogether unexpectedly, and yet, when it did
come, it was all but unendurable. He had made so much of the power of walking into that august
chamber, and sitting shoulder to shoulder in legislative equality with the sons of dukes and
the curled darlings of the nation. Money had given him nothing, nothing but the mere feeling
of brute power: with his three hundred thousand pounds he had felt himself to be no more palpably
near to the goal of his ambition than when he had chipped stones for three shillings and sixpence
a day. But when he was led up and introduced at that table, when he shook the old premier's
hand on the floor of the House of Commons, when he heard the honourable member for Barchester
alluded to in grave debate as the greatest living authority on railway matters, then, indeed,
he felt that he had achieved something.

And now this cup was ravished from his lips, almost before it was tasted. When he was first
told as a certainty that the decision of the committee was against him, he bore up against
the misfortune like a man. He laughed heartily, and declared himself well rid of a very profitless
profession; cut some little joke about Mr Moffat and his thrashing, and left on those around
him an impression that he was a man so constituted, so strong in his own resolves, so steadily
pursuant of his own work, that no little contentions of this kind could affect him. Men admired
his easy laughter, as, shuffling his half-crowns with both his hands in his trouser-pockets,
he declared that Messrs Romer and Reddypalm were the best friends he had known for this many a day.

But not the less did he walk out from the room in which he was standing a broken-hearted man.
Hope could not buoy him up as she may do other ex-members in similarly disagreeable circumstances.
He could not afford to look forward to what further favours parliamentary future might have
in store for him after a lapse of five or six years. Five or six years! Why, his life was not
worth four years' purchase; of that he was perfectly aware: he could not now live without the
stimulus of brandy; and yet, while he took it, he knew he was killing himself. Death he did
not fear; but he would fain have wished, after his life of labour, to have lived, while yet
he could live, in the blaze of that high world to which for a moment he had attained.

He laughed loud and cheerily as he left his parliamentary friends, and, putting himself into
the train, went down to Boxall Hill. He laughed loud and cheerily; but he never laughed again.
It had not been his habit to laugh much at Boxall Hill. It was there he kept his wife, and
Mr Winterbones, and the brandy bottle behind his pillow. He had not often there found it necessary
to assume that loud and cheery laugh.

On this occasion he was apparently well in health when he got home; but both Lady Scatcherd
and Mr Winterbones found him more than ordinarily cross. He made an affectation at sitting
very hard to business, and even talked of going abroad to look at some of his foreign contracts.
But even Winterbones found that his patron did not work as he had been wont to do; and at last,
with some misgivings, he told Lady Scatcherd that he feared that everything was not right.

"He's always at it, my lady, always," said Mr Winterbones.

"Is he?" said Lady Scatcherd, well understanding what Mr Winterbones's allusion meant.

"Always, my lady. I never saw nothing like it. Now, there's me--I can always go my half-hour
when I've had my drop; but he, why, he don't go ten minutes, not now."

This was not cheerful to Lady Scatcherd; but what was the poor woman to do? When she spoke
to him on any subject he only snarled at her; and now that the heavy fit was on him, she did
not dare even to mention the subject of his drinking. She had never known him so savage in
his humour as he was now, so bearish in his habits, so little inclined to humanity, so determined
to rush headlong down, with his head between his legs, into the bottomless abyss.

She thought of sending for Dr Thorne; but she did not know under what guise to send for him,--whether
as doctor or as friend: under neither would he now be welcome; and she well knew that Sir Roger
was not the man to accept in good part either a doctor or a friend who might be unwelcome.
She knew that this husband of hers, this man who, with all his faults, was the best of her
friends, whom of all she loved best--she knew that he was killing himself, and yet she could
do nothing. Sir Roger was his own master, and if kill himself he would, kill himself he must.

And kill himself he did. Not indeed by one sudden blow. He did not take one huge dose of his
consuming poison and then fall dead upon the floor. It would perhaps have been better for himself,
and better for those around him, had he done so. No; the doctors had time to congregate around
his bed; Lady Scatcherd was allowed a period of nurse-tending; the sick man was able to say
his last few words and bid adieu to his portion of the lower world with dying decency. As these
last words will have some lasting effect upon the surviving personages of our story, the reader
must be content to stand for a short while by the side of Sir Roger's sick-bed, and help us
to bid him God-speed on the journey which lies before him.

CHAPTER XXIII

Retrospective

It was declared in the early pages of this work that Dr Thorne was to be our hero; but it would
appear very much as though he had latterly been forgotten. Since that evening when he retired
to rest without letting Mary share the grievous weight which was on his mind, we have neither
seen nor heard aught of him.

It was then full midsummer, and it now early spring: and during the intervening months the
doctor had not had a happy time of it. On that night, as we have before told, he took his niece
to his heart; but he could not then bring himself to tell her that which it was so imperative
that she should know. Like a coward, he would put off the evil hour till the next morning,
and thus robbed himself of his night's sleep.

But when the morning came the duty could not be postponed. Lady Arabella had given him to understand
that his niece would no longer be a guest at Greshamsbury; and it was quite out of the question
that Mary, after this, should be allowed to put her foot within the gate of the domain without
having learnt what Lady Arabella had said. So he told it her before breakfast, walking round
their little garden, she with her hand in his.

He was perfectly thunderstruck by the collected--nay, cool way in which she received his tidings.
She turned pale, indeed; he felt also that her hand somewhat trembled in his own, and he perceived
that for a moment her voice shook; but no angry word escaped her lip, nor did she even deign
to repudiate the charge, which was, as it were, conveyed in Lady Arabella's request. The doctor
knew, or thought he knew--nay, he did know--that Mary was wholly blameless in the matter: that
she had at least given no encouragement to any love on the part of the young heir; but, nevertheless,
he had expected that she would avouch her own innocence. This, however, she by no means did.

"Lady Arabella is quite right," she said, "quite right; if she has any fear of that kind, she
cannot be too careful."

"She is a selfish, proud woman," said the doctor; "quite indifferent to the feelings of others;
quite careless how deeply she may hurt her neighbours, if, in doing so, she may possibly benefit
herself."

"She will not hurt me, uncle, nor yet you. I can live without going to Greshamsbury."

"But it is not to be endured that she should dare to cast an imputation on my darling."

"On me, uncle? She casts no imputation on me. Frank has been foolish: I have said nothing of
it, for it was not worth while to trouble you. But as Lady Arabella chooses to interfere, I
have no right to blame her. He has said what he should not have said; he has been foolish.
Uncle, you know I could not prevent it."

"Let her send him away then, not you; let her banish him."

"Uncle, he is her son. A mother can hardly send her son away so easily: could you send me away,
uncle?"

He merely answered her by twining his arm round her waist and pressing her to his side. He
was well sure that she was badly treated; and yet now that she so unaccountably took Lady Arabella's
part, he hardly knew how to make this out plainly to be the case.

"Besides, uncle, Greshamsbury is in a manner his own; how can he be banished from his father's
house? No, uncle; there is an end of my visits there. They shall find that I will not thrust
myself in their way."

And then Mary, with a calm brow and steady gait, went in and made the tea.

And what might be the feelings of her heart when she so sententiously told her uncle that Frank
had been foolish? She was of the same age with him; as impressionable, though more powerful
in hiding such impressions,--as all women should be; her heart was as warm, her blood as full
of life, her innate desire for the companionship of some much-loved object as strong as his.
Frank had been foolish in avowing his passion. No such folly as that could be laid at her door.
But had she been proof against the other folly? Had she been able to walk heart-whole by his
side, while he chatted his commonplaces about love? Yes, they are commonplaces when we read
of them in novels; common enough, too, to some of us when we write them; but they are by no
means commonplace when first heard by a young girl in the rich, balmy fragrance of a July evening
stroll.

Nor are they commonplaces when so uttered for the first or second time at least, or perhaps
the third. 'Tis a pity that so heavenly a pleasure should pall upon the senses.

If it was so that Frank's folly had been listened to with a certain amount of pleasure, Mary
did not even admit so much to herself. But why should it have been otherwise? Why should she
have been less prone to love than he was? Had he not everything which girls do love? which
girls should love? which God created noble, beautiful, all but godlike, in order that women,
all but goddesslike, might love? To love thoroughly, truly, heartily, with her whole body,
soul, heart, and strength; should not that be counted for a merit in a woman? And yet we are
wont to make a disgrace of it. We do so most unnaturally, most unreasonably; for we expect
our daughters to get themselves married off our hands. When the period of that step comes,
then love is proper enough; but up to that--before that--as regards all those preliminary passages
which must, we suppose, be necessary--in all those it becomes a young lady to be icy-hearted
as a river-god in winter.

   O whistle and I'll come to you, my lad!
   O whistle and I'll come to you, my lad!
   Tho' father and mither and a' should go mad,
   O whistle and I'll come to you, my lad!

This is the kind of love which a girl should feel before she puts her hand proudly in that
of her lover, and consents that they two shall be made one flesh.

Mary felt no such love as this. She, too, had some inner perception of that dread destiny by
which it behoved Frank Gresham to be forewarned. She, too--though she had never heard so much
said in words--had an almost instinctive knowledge that his fate required him to marry money.
Thinking over this in her own way, she was not slow to convince herself that it was out of
the question that she should allow herself to love Frank Gresham. However well her heart might
be inclined to such a feeling, it was her duty to repress it. She resolved, therefore, to do
so; and she sometimes flattered herself that she had kept her resolution.

These were bad times for the doctor, and bad times for Mary too. She had declared that she
could live without going to Greshamsbury; but she did not find it so easy. She had been going
to Greshamsbury all her life, and it was as customary with her to be there as at home. Such
old customs are not broken without pain. Had she left the place it would have been far different;
but, as it was, she daily passed the gates, daily saw and spoke to some of the servants, who
knew her as well as they did the young ladies of the family--was in hourly contact, as it were,
with Greshamsbury. It was not only that she did not go there, but that everyone knew that she
had suddenly discontinued doing so. Yes, she could live without going to Greshamsbury; but
for some time she had but a poor life of it. She felt, nay, almost heard, that every man and
woman, boy and girl, in the village was telling his and her neighbour that Mary Thorne no longer
went to the house because of Lady Arabella and the young squire.

But Beatrice, of course, came to her. What was she to say to Beatrice? The truth! Nay, but
it is not always so easy to say the truth, even to one's dearest friends.

"But you'll come up now he has gone?" said Beatrice.

"No, indeed," said Mary; "that would hardly be pleasant to Lady Arabella, nor to me either.
No, Trichy, dearest; my visits to dear old Greshamsbury are done, done, done: perhaps in some
twenty years' time I may be walking down the lawn with your brother, and discussing our childish
days--that is, always, if the then Mrs Gresham shall have invited me."

"How can Frank have been so wrong, so unkind, so cruel?" said Beatrice.

This, however, was a light in which Miss Thorne did not take any pleasure in discussing the
matter. Her ideas of Frank's fault, and unkindness, and cruelty, were doubtless different from
those of his sister. Such cruelty was not unnaturally excused in her eyes by many circumstances
which Beatrice did not fully understand. Mary was quite ready to go hand in hand with Lady
Arabella and the rest of the Greshamsbury fold in putting an end, if possible, to Frank's passion:
she would give no one a right to accuse her of assisting to ruin the young heir; but she could
hardly bring herself to admit that he was so very wrong--no, nor yet even so very cruel.

And then the squire came to see her, and this was a yet harder trial than the visit of Beatrice.
It was so difficult for her to speak to him that she could not but wish him away; and yet,
had he not come, had he altogether neglected her, she would have felt it to be unkind. She
had ever been his pet, had always received kindness from him.

"I am sorry for all this, Mary; very sorry," said he, standing up, and holding both her hands
in his.

"It can't be helped, sir," said she, smiling.

"I don't know," said he; "I don't know--it ought to be helped somehow--I am quite sure you
have not been to blame."

"No," said she, very quietly, as though the position was one quite a matter of course. "I don't
think I have been very much to blame. There will be misfortunes sometimes when nobody is to blame."

"I do not quite understand it all," said the squire; "but if Frank--"

"Oh! we will not talk about him," said she, still laughing gently.

"You can understand, Mary, how dear he must be to me; but if--"

"Mr Gresham, I would not for worlds be the cause of any unpleasantness between you and him."

"But I cannot bear to think that we have banished you, Mary."

"It cannot be helped. Things will all come right in time."

"But you will be so lonely here."

"Oh! I shall get over all that. Here, you know, Mr Gresham, 'I am monarch of all I survey;'
and there is a great deal in that."

The squire did not quite catch her meaning, but a glimmering of it did reach him. It was competent
to Lady Arabella to banish her from Greshamsbury; it was within the sphere of the squire's
duties to prohibit his son from an imprudent match; it was for the Greshams to guard their
Greshamsbury treasure as best they could within their own territories: but let them beware
that they did not attack her on hers. In obedience to the first expression of their wishes,
she had submitted herself to this public mark of their disapproval because she had seen at
once, with her clear intellect, that they were only doing that which her conscience must approve.
Without a murmur, therefore, she consented to be pointed at as the young lady who had been
turned out of Greshamsbury because of the young squire. She had no help for it. But let them
take care that they did not go beyond that. Outside those Greshamsbury gates she and Frank
Gresham, she and Lady Arabella met on equal terms; let them each fight their own battle.

The squire kissed her forehead affectionately and took his leave, feeling, somehow, that he
had been excused and pitied, and made much of; whereas he had called on his young neighbour
with the intention of excusing, and pitying, and making much of her. He was not quite comfortable
as he left the house; but, nevertheless, he was sufficiently honest-hearted to own to himself
that Mary Thorne was a fine girl. Only that it was so absolutely necessary that Frank should
marry money--and only, also, that poor Mary was such a birthless foundling in the world's esteem--only,
but for these things, what a wife she would have made for that son of his!

To one person only did she talk freely on the subject, and that one was Patience Oriel; and
even with her the freedom was rather of the mind than of the heart. She never said a word of
her feeling with reference to Frank, but she said much of her position in the village, and
of the necessity she was under to keep out of the way.

"It is very hard," said Patience, "that the offence should be all with him, and the punishment
all with you."

"Oh! as for that," said Mary, laughing, "I will not confess to any offence, nor yet to any
punishment; certainly not to any punishment."

"It comes to the same thing in the end."

"No, not so, Patience; there is always some little sting of disgrace in punishment: now I am
not going to hold myself in the least disgraced."

"But, Mary, you must meet the Greshams sometimes."

"Meet them! I have not the slightest objection on earth to meet all, or any of them. They are
not a whit dangerous to me, my dear. 'Tis I that am the wild beast, and 'tis they that must
avoid me," and then she added, after a pause--slightly blushing--"I have not the slightest
objection even to meet him if chance brings him in my way. Let them look to that. My undertaking
goes no further than this, that I will not be seen within their gates."

But the girls so far understood each other that Patience undertook, rather than promised, to
give Mary what assistance she could; and, despite Mary's bravado, she was in such a position
that she much wanted the assistance of such a friend as Miss Oriel.

After an absence of some six weeks, Frank, as we have seen, returned home. Nothing was said
to him, except by Beatrice, as to these new Greshamsbury arrangements; and he, when he found
Mary was not at the place, went boldly to the doctor's house to seek her. But it has been seen,
also, that she discreetly kept out of his way. This she had thought fit to do when the time
came, although she had been so ready with her boast that she had no objection on earth to meet him.

After that there had been the Christmas vacation, and Mary had again found discretion to be
the better part of valour. This was doubtless disagreeable enough. She had no particular wish
to spend her Christmas with Miss Oriel's aunt instead of at her uncle's fireside. Indeed, her
Christmas festivities had hitherto been kept at Greshamsbury, the doctor and herself having
made a part of the family circle there assembled. This was out of the question now; and perhaps
the absolute change to old Miss Oriel's house was better for her than the lesser change to
her uncle's drawing-room. Besides, how could she have demeaned herself when she met Frank in
their parish church? All this had been fully understood by Patience, and, therefore, had this
Christmas visit been planned.

And then this affair of Frank and Mary Thorne ceased for a while to be talked of at Greshamsbury,
for that other affair of Mr Moffat and Augusta monopolised the rural attention. Augusta, as
we have said, bore it well, and sustained the public gaze without much flinching. Her period
of martyrdom, however, did not last long, for soon the news arrived of Frank's exploit in Pall
Mall; and then the Greshamsburyites forgot to think much more of Augusta, being fully occupied
in thinking of what Frank had done.

The tale, as it was first told, declared the Frank had followed Mr Moffat up into his club;
had dragged him thence into the middle of Pall Mall, and had then slaughtered him on the spot.
This was by degrees modified till a sobered fiction became generally prevalent, that Mr Moffat
was lying somewhere, still alive, but with all his bones in a general state of compound fracture.
This adventure again brought Frank into the ascendant, and restored to Mary her former position
as the Greshamsbury heroine.

"One cannot wonder at his being very angry," said Beatrice, discussing the matter with Mary--very
imprudently.

"Wonder--no; the wonder would have been if he had not been angry. One might have been quite
sure that he would have been angry enough."

"I suppose it was not absolutely right for him to beat Mr Moffat," said Beatrice, apologetically.

"Not right, Trichy? I think he was very right."

"Not to beat him so very much, Mary!"

"Oh, I suppose a man can't exactly stand measuring how much he does these things. I like your
brother for what he has done, and I say so frankly--though I suppose I ought to eat my tongue
out before I should say such a thing, eh, Trichy?"

"I don't know that there's any harm in that," said Beatrice, demurely. "If you both liked each
other there would be no harm in that--if that were all."

"Wouldn't there?" said Mary, in a low tone of bantering satire; "that is so kind, Trichy, coming
from you--from one of the family, you know."

"You are well aware, Mary, that if I could have my wishes--"

"Yes: I am well aware what a paragon of goodness you are. If you could have your way I should
be admitted into heaven again; shouldn't I? Only with this proviso, that if a stray angel should
ever whisper to me with bated breath, mistaking me, perchance, for one of his own class, I
should be bound to close my ears to his whispering, and remind him humbly that I was only a
poor mortal. You would trust me so far, wouldn't you, Trichy?"

"I would trust you in any way, Mary. But I think you are unkind in saying such things to me."

"Into whatever heaven I am admitted, I will go only on this understanding: that I am to be
as good an angel as any of those around me."

"But, Mary dear, why do you say this to me?"

"Because--because--because--ah me! Why, indeed, but because I have no one else to say it to.
Certainly not because you have deserved it."

"It seems as though you were finding fault with me."

"And so I am; how can I do other than find fault? How can I help being sore? Trichy, you hardly
realise my position; you hardly see how I am treated; how I am forced to allow myself to be
treated without a sign of complaint. You don't see it all. If you did, you would not wonder
that I should be sore."

Beatrice did not quite see it all; but she saw enough of it to know that Mary was to be pitied;
so, instead of scolding her friend for being cross, she threw her arms round her and kissed
her affectionately.

But the doctor all this time suffered much more than his niece did. He could not complain out
loudly; he could not aver that his pet lamb had been ill treated; he could not even have the
pleasure of openly quarrelling with Lady Arabella; but not the less did he feel it to be most
cruel that Mary should have to live before the world as an outcast, because it had pleased
Frank Gresham to fall in love with her.

But his bitterness was not chiefly against Frank. That Frank had been very foolish he could
not but acknowledge; but it was a kind of folly for which the doctor was able to find excuse.
For Lady Arabella's cold propriety he could find no excuse.

With the squire he had spoken no word on the subject up to this period of which we are now
writing. With her ladyship he had never spoken on it since that day when she had told him that
Mary was to come no more to Greshamsbury. He never now dined or spent his evenings at Greshamsbury,
and seldom was to be seen at the house, except when called in professionally. The squire, indeed,
he frequently met; but he either did so in the village, or out on horseback, or at his own house.

When the doctor first heard that Sir Roger had lost his seat, and had returned to Boxall Hill,
he resolved to go over and see him. But the visit was postponed from day to day, as visits
are postponed which may be made any day, and he did not in fact go till he was summoned there
somewhat peremptorily. A message was brought to him one evening to say that Sir Roger had been
struck by paralysis, and that not a moment was to be lost.

"It always happens at night," said Mary, who had more sympathy for the living uncle whom she
did know, than for the other dying uncle whom she did not know.

"What matters?--there--just give me my scarf. In all probability I may not be home to-night--perhaps
not till late to-morrow. God bless you, Mary!" and away the doctor went on his cold bleak ride
to Boxall Hill.

"Who will be his heir?" As the doctor rode along, he could not quite rid his mind of this question.
The poor man now about to die had wealth enough to make many heirs. What if his heart should
have softened towards his sister's child! What if Mary should be found in a few days to be
possessed of such wealth that the Greshams should be again be happy to welcome her at Greshamsbury!

The doctor was not a lover of money--and he did his best to get rid of such pernicious thoughts.
But his longings, perhaps, were not so much that Mary should be rich, as that she should have
the power of heaping coals of fire upon the heads of those people who had so injured her.

CHAPTER XXIV

Louis Scatcherd

When Dr Thorne reached Boxall Hill he found Mr Rerechild from Barchester there before him.
Poor Lady Scatcherd, when her husband was stricken by the fit, hardly knew in her dismay what
adequate steps to take. She had, as a matter of course, sent for Dr Thorne; but she had thought
that in so grave a peril the medical skill of no one man could suffice. It was, she knew, quite
out of the question for her to invoke the aid of Dr Fillgrave, whom no earthly persuasion would
have brought to Boxall Hill; and as Mr Rerechild was supposed in the Barchester world to be
second--though at a long interval--to that great man, she had applied for his assistance.

Now Mr Rerechild was a follower and humble friend of Dr Fillgrave; and was wont to regard anything
that came from the Barchester doctor as sure light from the lamp of Æsculapius. He could not
therefore be other than an enemy of Dr Thorne. But he was a prudent, discreet man, with a long
family, averse to professional hostilities, as knowing that he could make more by medical friends
than medical foes, and not at all inclined to take up any man's cudgel to his own detriment.
He had, of course, heard of that dreadful affront which had been put upon his friend, as had
all the "medical world"--all the medical world at least of Barsetshire; and he had often expressed
his sympathy with Dr Fillgrave and his abhorrence of Dr Thorne's anti-professional practices.
But now that he found himself about to be brought in contact with Dr Thorne, he reflected that
the Galen of Greshamsbury was at any rate equal in reputation to him of Barchester; that the
one was probably on the rise, whereas the other was already considered by some as rather antiquated;
and he therefore wisely resolved that the present would be an excellent opportunity for him
to make a friend of Dr Thorne.

Poor Lady Scatcherd had an inkling that Dr Fillgrave and Mr Rerechild were accustomed to row
in the same boat, and she was not altogether free from fear that there might be an outbreak.
She therefore took an opportunity before Dr Thorne's arrival to deprecate any wrathful tendency.

"Oh, Lady Scatcherd! I have the greatest respect for Dr Thorne," said he; "the greatest possible
respect; a most skilful practitioner--something brusque certainly, and perhaps a little obstinate.
But what then? we all have our faults, Lady Scatcherd."

"Oh--yes; we all have, Mr Rerechild; that's certain."

"There's my friend Fillgrave--Lady Scatcherd. He cannot bear anything of that sort. Now I think
he's wrong; and so I tell him." Mr Rerechild was in error here; for he had never yet ventured
to tell Dr Fillgrave that he was wrong in anything. "We must bear and forbear, you know. Dr
Thorne is an excellent man--in his way very excellent, Lady Scatcherd."

This little conversation took place after Mr Rerechild's first visit to his patient: what steps
were immediately taken for the relief of the sufferer we need not describe. They were doubtless
well intended, and were, perhaps, as well adapted to stave off the coming evil day as any that
Dr Fillgrave, or even the great Sir Omicron Pie might have used.

And then Dr Thorne arrived.

"Oh, doctor! doctor!" exclaimed Lady Scatcherd, almost hanging round his neck in the hall.
"What are we to do? What are we to do? He's very bad."

"Has he spoken?"

"No; nothing like a word: he has made one or two muttered sounds; but, poor soul, you could
make nothing of it--oh, doctor! doctor! he has never been like this before."

It was easy to see where Lady Scatcherd placed any such faith as she might still have in the
healing art. "Mr Rerechild is here and has seen him," she continued. "I thought it best to
send for two, for fear of accidents. He has done something--I don't know what. But, doctor,
do tell the truth now; I look to you to tell me the truth."

Dr Thorne then went up and saw his patient; and had he literally complied with Lady Scatcherd's
request, he might have told her at once that there was no hope. As, however, he had not the
heart to do this, he mystified the case as doctors so well know how to do, and told her that
"there was cause to fear, great cause for fear; he was sorry to say, very great cause for much
fear."

Dr Thorne promised to stay the night there, and, if possible, the following night also; and
then Lady Scatcherd became troubled in her mind as to what she should do with Mr Rerechild.
He also declared, with much medical humanity, that, let the inconvenience be what it might,
he too would stay the night. "The loss," he said, "of such a man as Sir Roger Scatcherd was
of such paramount importance as to make other matters trivial. He would certainly not allow
the whole weight to fall on the shoulders of his friend Dr Thorne: he also would stay at any
rate that night by the sick man's bedside. By the following morning some change might be expected."

"I say, Dr Thorne," said her ladyship, calling the doctor into the housekeeping-room, in which
she and Hannah spent any time that they were not required upstairs; "just come in, doctor:
you couldn't tell him we don't want him any more, could you?"

"Tell whom?" said the doctor.

"Why--Mr Rerechild: mightn't he go away, do you think?"

Dr Thorne explained that Mr Rerechild certainly might go away if he pleased; but that it would
by no means be proper for one doctor to tell another to leave the house. And so Mr Rerechild
was allowed to share the glories of the night.

In the meantime the patient remained speechless; but it soon became evident that Nature was
using all her efforts to make one final rally. From time to time he moaned and muttered as
though he was conscious, and it seemed as though he strove to speak. He gradually became awake,
at any rate to suffering, and Dr Thorne began to think that the last scene would be postponed
for yet a while longer.

"Wonderful strong constitution--eh, Dr Thorne? wonderful!" said Mr Rerechild.

"Yes; he has been a strong man."

"Strong as a horse, Dr Thorne. Lord, what that man would have been if he had given himself
a chance! You know his constitution of course."

"Yes; pretty well. I've attended him for many years."

"Always drinking, I suppose; always at it--eh?"

"He has not been a temperate man, certainly."

"The brain, you see, clean gone--and not a particle of coating left to the stomach; and yet
what a struggle he makes--an interesting case, isn't it?"

"It's very sad to see such an intellect so destroyed."

"Very sad, very sad indeed. How Fillgrave would have liked to have seen this case. He is a
clever man, is Fillgrave--in his way, you know."

"I'm sure he is," said Dr Thorne.

"Not that he'd make anything of a case like this now--he's not, you know, quite--quite--perhaps
not quite up to the new time of day, if one may say so."

"He has had a very extensive provincial practice," said Dr Thorne.

"Oh, very--very; and made a tidy lot of money too, has Fillgrave. He's worth six thousand pounds,
I suppose; now that's a good deal of money to put by in a little town like Barchester."

"Yes, indeed."

"What I say to Fillgrave is this--keep your eyes open; one should never be too old to learn--there's
always something new worth picking up. But, no--he won't believe that. He can't believe that
any new ideas can be worth anything. You know a man must go to the wall in that way--eh, doctor?"

And then again they were called to their patient. "He's doing finely, finely," said Mr Rerechild
to Lady Scatcherd. "There's fair ground to hope he'll rally; fair ground, is there not, doctor?"

"Yes; he'll rally; but how long that may last, that we can hardly say."

"Oh, no, certainly not, certainly not--that is not with any certainty; but still he's doing
finely, Lady Scatcherd, considering everything."

"How long will you give him, doctor?" said Mr Rerechild to his new friend, when they were again
alone. "Ten days? I dare say ten days, or from that to a fortnight, not more; but I think he'll
struggle on ten days."

"Perhaps so," said the doctor. "I should not like to say exactly to a day."

"No, certainly not. We cannot say exactly to a day; but I say ten days; as for anything like
a recovery, that you know--"

"Is out of the question," said Dr Thorne, gravely.

"Quite so; quite so; coating of the stomach clean gone, you know; brain destroyed: did you
observe the periporollida? I never saw them so swelled before: now when the periporollida are
swollen like that--"

"Yes, very much; it's always the case when paralysis has been brought about by intemperance."

"Always, always; I have remarked that always; the periporollida in such cases are always extended;
most interesting case, isn't it? I do wish Fillgrave could have seen it. But, I believe you
and Fillgrave don't quite--eh?"

"No, not quite," said Dr Thorne; who, as he thought of his last interview with Dr Fillgrave,
and of that gentleman's exceeding anger as he stood in the hall below, could not keep himself
from smiling, sad as the occasion was.

Nothing would induce Lady Scatcherd to go to bed; but the two doctors agreed to lie down, each
in a room on one side of the patient. How was it possible that anything but good should come
to him, being so guarded? "He is going on finely, Lady Scatcherd, quite finely," were the last
words Mr Rerechild said as he left the room.

And then Dr Thorne, taking Lady Scatcherd's hand and leading her out into another chamber,
told her the truth.

"Lady Scatcherd," said he, in his tenderest voice--and his voice could be very tender when
occasion required it--"Lady Scatcherd, do not hope; you must not hope; it would be cruel to
bid you do so."

"Oh, doctor! oh, doctor!"

"My dear friend, there is no hope."

"Oh, Dr Thorne!" said the wife, looking wildly up into her companion's face, though she hardly
yet realised the meaning of what he said, although her senses were half stunned by the blow.

"Dear Lady Scatcherd, is it not better that I should tell you the truth?"

"Oh, I suppose so; oh yes, oh yes; ah me! ah me! ah me!" And then she began rocking herself
backwards and forwards on her chair, with her apron up to her eyes. "What shall I do? what
shall I do?"

"Look to Him, Lady Scatcherd, who only can make such grief endurable."

"Yes, yes, yes; I suppose so. Ah me! ah me! But, Dr Thorne, there must be some chance--isn't
there any chance? That man says he's going on so well."

"I fear there is no chance--as far as my knowledge goes there is no chance."

"Then why does that chattering magpie tell such lies to a woman? Ah me! ah me! ah me! oh, doctor!
doctor! what shall I do? what shall I do?" and poor Lady Scatcherd, fairly overcome by her
sorrow, burst out crying like a great school-girl.

And yet what had her husband done for her that she should thus weep for him? Would not her
life be much more blessed when this cause of all her troubles should be removed from her? Would
she not then be a free woman instead of a slave? Might she not then expect to begin to taste
the comforts of life? What had that harsh tyrant of hers done that was good or serviceable
for her? Why should she thus weep for him in paroxysms of truest grief?

We hear a good deal of jolly widows; and the slanderous raillery of the world tells much of
conjugal disturbances as a cure for which women will look forward to a state of widowhood with
not unwilling eyes. The raillery of the world is very slanderous. In our daily jests we attribute
to each other vices of which neither we, nor our neighbours, nor our friends, nor even our
enemies are ever guilty. It is our favourite parlance to talk of the family troubles of Mrs
Green on our right, and to tell how Mrs Young on our left is strongly suspected of having raised
her hand to her lord and master. What right have we to make these charges? What have we seen
in our own personal walks through life to make us believe that women are devils? There may
possibly have been a Xantippe here and there, but Imogenes are to be found under every bush.
Lady Scatcherd, in spite of the life she had led, was one of them.

"You should send a message up to London for Louis," said the doctor.

"We did that, doctor; we did that to-day--we sent up a telegraph. Oh me! oh me! poor boy, what
will he do? I shall never know what to do with him, never! never!" And with such sorrowful
wailings she sat rocking herself through the long night, every now and then comforting herself
by the performance of some menial service in the sick man's room.

Sir Roger passed the night much as he had passed the day, except that he appeared gradually
to be growing nearer to a state of consciousness. On the following morning they succeeded at
last in making Mr Rerechild understand that they were not desirous of keeping him longer from
his Barchester practice; and at about twelve o'clock Dr Thorne also went, promising that he
would return in the evening, and again pass the night at Boxall Hill.

In the course of the afternoon Sir Roger once more awoke to his senses, and when he did so
his son was standing at his bedside. Louis Philippe Scatcherd--or as it may be more convenient
to call him, Louis--was a young man just of the age of Frank Gresham. But there could hardly
be two youths more different in their appearance. Louis, though his father and mother were
both robust persons, was short and slight, and now of a sickly frame. Frank was a picture of
health and strength; but, though manly in disposition, was by no means precocious either in
appearance or manners. Louis Scatcherd looked as though he was four years the other's senior.
He had been sent to Eton when he was fifteen, his father being under the impression that this
was the most ready and best-recognised method of making him a gentleman. Here he did not altogether
fail as regarded the coveted object of his becoming the companion of gentlemen. He had more
pocket-money than any other lad in the school, and was possessed also of a certain effrontery
which carried him ahead among boys of his own age. He gained, therefore, a degree of éclat,
even among those who knew, and very frequently said to each other, that young Scatcherd was
not fit to be their companion except on such open occasions as those of cricket-matches and
boat-races. Boys, in this respect, are at least as exclusive as men, and understand as well
the difference between an inner and an outer circle. Scatcherd had many companions at school
who were glad enough to go up to Maidenhead with him in his boat; but there was not one among
them who would have talked to him of his sister.

Sir Roger was vastly proud of his son's success, and did his best to stimulate it by lavish
expenditure at the Christopher, whenever he could manage to run down to Eton. But this practice,
though sufficiently unexceptionable to the boys, was not held in equal delight by the masters.
To tell the truth, neither Sir Roger nor his son were favourites with these stern custodians.
At last it was felt necessary to get rid of them both; and Louis was not long in giving them
an opportunity, by getting tipsy twice in one week. On the second occasion he was sent away,
and he and Sir Roger, though long talked of, were seen no more at Eton.

But the universities were still open to Louis Philippe, and before he was eighteen he was entered
as a gentleman-commoner at Trinity. As he was, moreover, the eldest son of a baronet, and had
almost unlimited command of money, here also he was enabled for a while to shine.

To shine! but very fitfully; and one may say almost with a ghastly glare. The very lads who
had eaten his father's dinners at Eton, and shared his four-oar at Eton, knew much better than
to associate with him at Cambridge now that they had put on the toga virilis. They were still
as prone as ever to fun, frolic, and devilry--perhaps more so than ever, seeing that more was
in their power; but they acquired an idea that it behoved them to be somewhat circumspect as
to the men with whom their pranks were perpetrated. So, in those days, Louis Scatcherd was
coldly looked on by his whilom Eton friends.

But young Scatcherd did not fail to find companions at Cambridge also. There are few places
indeed in which a rich man cannot buy companionship. But the set with whom he lived at Cambridge
were the worst of the place. They were fast, slang men, who were fast and slang, and nothing
else--men who imitated grooms in more than their dress, and who looked on the customary heroes
of race-courses as the highest lords of the ascendant upon earth. Among those at college young
Scatcherd did shine as long as such lustre was permitted him. Here, indeed, his father, who
had striven only to encourage him at Eton, did strive somewhat to control him. But that was
not now easy. If he limited his son's allowance, he only drove him to do his debauchery on
credit. There were plenty to lend money to the son of the great millionaire; and so, after
eighteen months' trial of a university education, Sir Roger had no alternative but to withdraw
his son from his alma mater.

What was he then to do with him? Unluckily it was considered quite unnecessary to take any
steps towards enabling him to earn his bread. Now nothing on earth can be more difficult than
bringing up well a young man who has not to earn his own bread, and who has no recognised station
among other men similarly circumstanced. Juvenile dukes, and sprouting earls, find their duties
and their places as easily as embryo clergymen and sucking barristers. Provision is made for
their peculiar positions: and, though they may possibly go astray, they have a fair chance
given to them of running within the posts. The same may be said of such youths as Frank Gresham.
There are enough of them in the community to have made it necessary that their well-being should
be a matter of care and forethought. But there are but few men turned out in the world in the
position of Louis Scatcherd; and, of those few, but very few enter the real battle of life
under good auspices.

Poor Sir Roger, though he had hardly time with all his multitudinous railways to look into
this thoroughly, had a glimmering of it. When he saw his son's pale face, and paid his wine
bills, and heard of his doings in horse-flesh, he did know that things were not going well;
he did understand that the heir to a baronetcy and a fortune of some ten thousand a year might
be doing better. But what was he to do? He could not watch over his boy himself; so he took
a tutor for him and sent him abroad.

Louis and the tutor got as far as Berlin, with what mutual satisfaction to each other need
not be specially described. But from Berlin Sir Roger received a letter in which the tutor
declined to go any further in the task which he had undertaken. He found that he had no influence
over his pupil, and he could not reconcile it to his conscience to be the spectator of such
a life as that which Mr Scatcherd led. He had no power in inducing Mr Scatcherd to leave Berlin;
but he would remain there himself till he should hear from Sir Roger. So Sir Roger had to leave
the huge Government works which he was then erecting on the southern coast, and hurry off to
Berlin to see what could be done with young Hopeful.

The young Hopeful was by no means a fool; and in some matters was more than a match for his
father. Sir Roger, in his anger, threatened to cast him off without a shilling. Louis, with
mixed penitence and effrontery, reminded him that he could not change the descent of the title;
promised amendment; declared that he had done only as do other young men of fortune; and hinted
that the tutor was a strait-laced ass. The father and the son returned together to Boxall Hill,
and three months afterwards Mr Scatcherd set up for himself in London.

And now his life, if not more virtuous, was more crafty than it had been. He had no tutor to
watch his doings and complain of them, and he had sufficient sense to keep himself from absolute
pecuniary ruin. He lived, it is true, where sharpers and blacklegs had too often opportunities
of plucking him; but, young as he was, he had been sufficiently long about the world to take
care he was not openly robbed; and as he was not openly robbed, his father, in a certain sense,
was proud of him.

Tidings, however, came--came at least in those last days--which cut Sir Roger to the quick;
tidings of vice in the son which the father could not but attribute to his own example. Twice
the mother was called up to the sick-bed of her only child, while he lay raving in that horrid
madness by which the outraged mind avenges itself on the body! Twice he was found raging in
delirium tremens, and twice the father was told that a continuance of such life must end in
an early death.

It may easily be conceived that Sir Roger was not a happy man. Lying there with that brandy
bottle beneath his pillow, reflecting in his moments of rest that that son of his had his brandy
bottle beneath his pillow, he could hardly have been happy. But he was not a man to say much
about his misery. Though he could restrain neither himself nor his heir, he could endure in
silence; and in silence he did endure, till, opening his eyes to the consciousness of death,
he at last spoke a few words to the only friend he knew.

Louis Scatcherd was not a fool, nor was he naturally, perhaps, of a depraved disposition; but
he had to reap the fruits of the worst education which England was able to give him. There
were moments in his life when he felt that a better, a higher, nay, a much happier career was
open to him than that which he had prepared himself to lead. Now and then he would reflect
what money and rank might have done for him; he would look with wishful eyes to the proud doings
of others of his age; would dream of quiet joys, of a sweet wife, of a house to which might
be asked friends who were neither jockeys nor drunkards; he would dream of such things in his
short intervals of constrained sobriety; but the dream would only serve to make him moody.

This was the best side of his character; the worst, probably, was that which was brought into
play by the fact that he was not a fool. He would have a better chance of redemption in this
world--perhaps also in another--had he been a fool. As it was, he was no fool: he was not to
be done, not he; he knew, no one better, the value of a shilling; he knew, also, how to keep
his shillings, and how to spend them. He consorted much with blacklegs and such-like, because
blacklegs were to his taste. But he boasted daily, nay, hourly to himself, and frequently to
those around him, that the leeches who were stuck round him could draw but little blood from
him. He could spend his money freely; but he would so spend it that he himself might reap the
gratification of the expenditure. He was acute, crafty, knowing, and up to every damnable dodge
practised by men of the class with whom he lived. At one-and-twenty he was that most odious
of all odious characters--a close-fisted reprobate.

He was a small man, not ill-made by Nature, but reduced to unnatural tenuity by dissipation--a
corporeal attribute of which he was apt to boast, as it enabled him, as he said, to put himself
up at 7 st. 7 lb. without any "d---- nonsense of not eating and drinking." The power, however,
was one of which he did not often avail himself, as his nerves were seldom in a fit state for
riding. His hair was dark red, and he wore red moustaches, and a great deal of red beard beneath
his chin, cut in a manner to make him look like an American. His voice also had a Yankee twang,
being a cross between that of an American trader and an English groom; and his eyes were keen
and fixed, and cold and knowing.

Such was the son whom Sir Roger saw standing at his bedside when first he awoke to consciousness.
It must not be supposed that Sir Roger looked at him with our eyes. To him he was an only child,
the heir of his wealth, the future bearer of his title; the most heart-stirring remembrancer
of those other days, when he had been so much a poorer, and so much a happier man. Let that
boy be bad or good, he was all Sir Roger had; and the father was still able to hope, when others
thought that all ground for hope was gone.

The mother also loved her son with a mother's natural love; but Louis had ever been ashamed
of his mother, and had, as far as possible, estranged himself from her. Her heart, perhaps,
fixed itself almost with almost a warmer love on Frank Gresham, her foster-son. Frank she saw
but seldom, but when she did see him he never refused her embrace. There was, too, a joyous,
genial lustre about Frank's face which always endeared him to women, and made his former nurse
regard him as the pet creation of the age. Though she but seldom interfered with any monetary
arrangement of her husband's, yet once or twice she had ventured to hint that a legacy left
to the young squire would make her a happy woman. Sir Roger, however, on these occasions had
not appeared very desirous of making his wife happy.

"Ah, Louis! is that you?" ejaculated Sir Roger, in tones hardly more than half-formed: afterwards,
in a day or two that is, he fully recovered his voice; but just then he could hardly open his
jaws, and spoke almost through his teeth. He managed, however, to put out his hand and lay
it on the counterpane, so that his son could take it.

"Why, that's well, governor," said the son; "you'll be as right as a trivet in a day or two--eh,
governor?"

The "governor" smiled with a ghastly smile. He already pretty well knew that he would never
again be "right," as his son called it, on that side of the grave. It did not, moreover, suit
him to say much just at that moment, so he contented himself with holding his son's hand. He
lay still in this position for a moment, and then, turning round painfully on his side, endeavoured
to put his hand to the place where his dire enemy usually was concealed. Sir Roger, however,
was too weak now to be his own master; he was at length, though too late, a captive in the
hands of nurses and doctors, and the bottle had now been removed.

Then Lady Scatcherd came in, and seeing that her husband was no longer unconscious, she could
not but believe that Dr Thorne had been wrong; she could not but think that there must be some
ground for hope. She threw herself on her knees at the bedside, bursting into tears as she
did so, and taking Sir Roger's hand in hers covered it with kisses.

"Bother!" said Sir Roger.

She did not, however, long occupy herself with the indulgence of her feelings; but going speedily
to work, produced such sustenance as the doctors had ordered to be given when the patient might
awake. A breakfast-cup was brought to him, and a few drops were put into his mouth; but he
soon made it manifest that he would take nothing more of a description so perfectly innocent.

"A drop of brandy--just a little drop," said he, half-ordering, and half-entreating.

"Ah, Roger!" said Lady Scatcherd.

"Just a little drop, Louis," said the sick man, appealing to his son.

"A little will be good for him; bring the bottle, mother," said the son.

After some altercation the brandy bottle was brought, and Louis, with what he thought a very
sparing hand, proceeded to pour about half a wine-glassful into the cup. As he did so, Sir
Roger, weak as he was, contrived to shake his son's arm, so as greatly to increase the dose.

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed the sick man, and then greedily swallowed the dose.

CHAPTER XXV

Sir Roger Dies

That night the doctor stayed at Boxall Hill, and the next night; so that it became a customary
thing for him to sleep there during the latter part of Sir Roger's illness. He returned home
daily to Greshamsbury; for he had his patients there, to whom he was as necessary as to Sir
Roger, the foremost of whom was Lady Arabella. He had, therefore, no slight work on his hands,
seeing that his nights were by no means wholly devoted to rest.

Mr Rerechild had not been much wrong as to the remaining space of life which he had allotted
to the dying man. Once or twice Dr Thorne had thought that the great original strength of his
patient would have enabled him to fight against death for a somewhat longer period; but Sir
Roger would give himself no chance. Whenever he was strong enough to have a will of his own,
he insisted on having his very medicine mixed with brandy; and in the hours of the doctor's
absence, he was too often successful in his attempts.

"It does not much matter," Dr Thorne had said to Lady Scatcherd. "Do what you can to keep down
the quantity, but do not irritate him by refusing to obey. It does not much signify now." So
Lady Scatcherd still administered the alcohol, and he from day to day invented little schemes
for increasing the amount, over which he chuckled with ghastly laughter.

Two or three times during these days Sir Roger essayed to speak seriously to his son; but Louis
always frustrated him. He either got out of the room on some excuse, or made his mother interfere
on the score that so much talking would be bad for his father. He already knew with tolerable
accuracy what was the purport of his father's will, and by no means approved of it; but as
he could not now hope to induce his father to alter it so as to make it more favourable to
himself, he conceived that no conversation on matters of business could be of use to him.

"Louis," said Sir Roger, one afternoon to his son; "Louis, I have not done by you as I ought
to have done--I know that now."

"Nonsense, governor; never mind about that now; I shall do well enough, I dare say. Besides,
it isn't too late; you can make it twenty-three years instead of twenty-five, if you like it."

"I do not mean as to money, Louis. There are things besides money which a father ought to look to."

"Now, father, don't fret yourself--I'm all right; you may be sure of that."

"Louis, it's that accursed brandy--it's that that I'm afraid of: you see me here, my boy, how
I'm lying here now."

"Don't you be annoying yourself, governor; I'm all right--quite right; and as for you, why,
you'll be up and about yourself in another month or so."

"I shall never be off this bed, my boy, till I'm carried into my coffin, on those chairs there.
But I'm not thinking of myself, Louis, but you; think what you may have before you if you can't
avoid that accursed bottle."

"I'm all right, governor; right as a trivet. It's very little I take, except at an odd time or so."

"Oh, Louis! Louis!"

"Come, father, cheer up; this sort of thing isn't the thing for you at all. I wonder where
mother is: she ought to be here with the broth; just let me go, and I'll see for her."

The father understood it all. He saw that it was now much beyond his faded powers to touch
the heart or conscience of such a youth as his son had become. What now could he do for his
boy except die? What else, what other benefit, did his son require of him but to die; to die
so that his means of dissipation might be unbounded? He let go the unresisting hand which he
held, and, as the young man crept out of the room, he turned his face to the wall. He turned
his face to the wall and held bitter commune with his own heart. To what had he brought himself?
To what had he brought his son? Oh, how happy would it have been for him could he have remained
all his days a working stone-mason in Barchester! How happy could he have died as such, years
ago! Such tears as those which wet that pillow are the bitterest which human eyes can shed.

But while they were dropping, the memoir of his life was in quick course of preparation. It
was, indeed, nearly completed, with considerable detail. He had lingered on four days longer
than might have been expected, and the author had thus had more than usual time for the work.
In these days a man is nobody unless his biography is kept so far posted up that it may be
ready for the national breakfast-table on the morning after his demise. When it chances that
the dead hero is one who was taken in his prime of life, of whose departure from among us the
most far-seeing biographical scribe can have no prophetic inkling, this must be difficult.
Of great men, full of years, who are ripe for the sickle, who in the course of Nature must
soon fall, it is of course comparatively easy for an active compiler to have his complete memoir
ready in his desk. But in order that the idea of omnipresent and omniscient information may
be kept up, the young must be chronicled as quickly as the old. In some cases this task must,
one would say, be difficult. Nevertheless, it is done.

The memoir of Sir Roger Scatcherd was progressing favourably. In this it was told how fortunate
had been his life; how, in his case, industry and genius combined had triumphed over the difficulties
which humble birth and deficient education had thrown in his way; how he had made a name among
England's great men; how the Queen had delighted to honour him, and nobles had been proud to
have him for a guest at their mansions. Then followed a list of all the great works which he
had achieved, of the railroads, canals, docks, harbours, jails, and hospitals which he had
constructed. His name was held up as an example to the labouring classes of his countrymen,
and he was pointed at as one who had lived and died happy--ever happy, said the biographer,
because ever industrious. And so a great moral question was inculcated. A short paragraph was
devoted to his appearance in Parliament; and unfortunate Mr Romer was again held up for disgrace,
for the thirtieth time, as having been the means of depriving our legislative councils of the
great assistance of Sir Roger's experience.

"Sir Roger," said the biographer in his concluding passage, "was possessed of an iron frame;
but even iron will yield to the repeated blows of the hammer. In the latter years of his life
he was known to overtask himself; and at length the body gave way, though the mind remained
firm to the last. The subject of this memoir was only fifty-nine when he was taken from us."

And thus Sir Roger's life was written, while the tears were yet falling on his pillow at Boxall
Hill. It was a pity that a proof-sheet could not have been sent to him. No man was vainer of
his reputation, and it would have greatly gratified him to know that posterity was about to
speak of him in such terms--to speak of him with a voice that would be audible for twenty-four
hours.

Sir Roger made no further attempt to give counsel to his son. It was too evidently useless.
The old dying lion felt that the lion's power had already passed from him, and that he was
helpless in the hands of the young cub who was so soon to inherit the wealth of the forest.
But Dr Thorne was more kind to him. He had something yet to say as to his worldly hopes and
worldly cares; and his old friend did not turn a deaf ear to him.

It was during the night that Sir Roger was most anxious to talk, and most capable of talking.
He would lie through the day in a state half-comatose; but towards evening he would rouse himself,
and by midnight he would be full of fitful energy. One night, as he lay wakeful and full of
thought, he thus poured forth his whole heart to Dr Thorne.

"Thorne," said he, "I told you about my will, you know."

"Yes," said the other; "and I have blamed myself greatly that I have not again urged you to
alter it. Your illness came too suddenly, Scatcherd; and then I was averse to speak of it."

"Why should I alter it? It is a good will; as good as I can make. Not but that I have altered
it since I spoke to you. I did it that day after you left me."

"Have you definitely named your heir in default of Louis?"

"No--that is--yes--I had done that before; I have said Mary's eldest child: I have not altered
that."

"But, Scatcherd, you must alter it."

"Must! well then I won't; but I'll tell you what I have done. I have added a postscript--a
codicil they call it--saying that you, and you only, know who is her eldest child. Winterbones
and Jack Martin have witnessed that."

Dr Thorne was going to explain how very injudicious such an arrangement appeared to be; but
Sir Roger would not listen to him. It was not about that that he wished to speak to him. To
him it was matter of but minor interest who might inherit his money if his son should die early;
his care was solely for his son's welfare. At twenty-five the heir might make his own will--might
bequeath all this wealth according to his own fancy. Sir Roger would not bring himself to believe
that his son could follow him to the grave in so short a time.

"Never mind that, doctor, now; but about Louis; you will be his guardian, you know."

"Not his guardian. He is more than of age."

"Ah! but doctor, you will be his guardian. The property will not be his till he be twenty-five.
You will not desert him?"

"I will not desert him; but I doubt whether I can do much for him--what can I do, Scatcherd?"

"Use the power that a strong man has over a weak one. Use the power that my will will give
you. Do for him as you would for a son of your own if you saw him going in bad courses. Do
as a friend should do for a friend that is dead and gone. I would do so for you, doctor, if
our places were changed."

"What I can do, that I will do," said Thorne, solemnly, taking as he spoke the contractor's
own in his own with a tight grasp.

"I know you will; I know you will. Oh! doctor, may you never feel as I do now! May you on your
death-bed have no dread as I have, as to the fate of those you will leave behind you!"

Doctor Thorne felt that he could not say much in answer to this. The future fate of Louis Scatcherd
was, he could not but own to himself, greatly to be dreaded. What good, what happiness, could
be presaged for such a one as he was? What comfort could he offer to the father? And then he
was called on to compare, as it were, the prospects of this unfortunate with those of his own
darling; to contrast all that was murky, foul, and disheartening, with all that was perfect--for
to him she was all but perfect; to liken Louis Scatcherd to the angel who brightened his own
hearthstone. How could he answer to such an appeal?

He said nothing; but merely tightened his grasp of the other's hand, to signify that he would
do, as best he could, all that was asked of him. Sir Roger looked up sadly into the doctor's
face, as though expecting some word of consolation. There was no comfort, no consolation to
come to him!

"For three or four years he must greatly depend upon you," continued Sir Roger.

"I will do what I can," said the doctor. "What I can do I will do. But he is not a child, Scatcherd:
at his age he must stand or fall mainly by his own conduct. The best thing for him will be
to marry."

"Exactly; that's just it, Thorne: I was coming to that. If he would marry, I think he would
do well yet, for all that has come and gone. If he married, of course you would let him have
the command of his own income."

"I will be governed entirely by your wishes: under any circumstances his income will, as I
understand, be quite sufficient for him, married or single."

"Ah!--but, Thorne, I should like to think he should shine with the best of them. For what I
have made the money if not for that? Now if he marries--decently, that is--some woman you know
that can assist him in the world, let him have what he wants. It is not to save the money that
I put it into your hands."

"No, Scatcherd; not to save the money, but to save him. I think that while you are yet with
him you should advise him to marry."

"He does not care a straw for what I advise, not one straw. Why should he? How can I tell him
to be sober when I have been a beast all my life myself? How can I advise him? That's where
it is! It is that that now kills me. Advise! Why, when I speak to him he treats me like a child."

"He fears that you are too weak, you know: he thinks that you should not be allowed to talk."

"Nonsense! he knows better; you know better. Too weak! what signifies? Would I not give all
that I have of strength at one blow if I could open his eyes to see as I see but for one minute?"
And the sick man raised himself up in his bed as though he were actually going to expend all
that remained to him of vigour in the energy of a moment.

"Gently, Scatcherd; gently. He will listen to you yet; but do not be so unruly."

"Thorne, you see that bottle there? Give me half a glass of brandy."

The doctor turned round in his chair; but he hesitated in doing as he was desired.

"Do as I ask you, doctor. It can do no harm now; you know that well enough. Why torture me now?"

"No, I will not torture you; but you will have water with it?"

"Water! No; the brandy by itself. I tell you I cannot speak without it. What's the use of canting
now? You know it can make no difference."

Sir Roger was right. It could make no difference; and Dr Thorne gave him the half glass of brandy.

"Ah, well; you've a stingy hand, doctor; confounded stingy. You don't measure your medicines
out in such light doses."

"You will be wanting more before morning, you know."

"Before morning! indeed I shall; a pint or so before that. I remember the time, doctor, when
I have drunk to my own cheek above two quarts between dinner and breakfast! aye, and worked
all the day after it!"

"You have been a wonderful man, Scatcherd, very wonderful."

"Aye, wonderful! well, never mind. It's over now. But what was I saying?--about Louis, doctor;
you'll not desert him?"

"Certainly not."

"He's not strong; I know that. How should he be strong, living as he has done? Not that it
seemed to hurt me when I was his age."

"You had the advantage of hard work."

"That's it. Sometimes I wish that Louis had not a shilling in the world; that he had to trudge
about with an apron round his waist as I did. But it's too late now to think of that. If he
would only marry, doctor."

Dr Thorne again expressed an opinion that no step would be so likely to reform the habits of
the young heir as marriage; and repeated his advice to the father to implore his son to take
a wife.

"I'll tell you what, Thorne," said he. And then, after a pause, he went on. "I have not half
told you as yet what is on my mind; and I'm nearly afraid to tell it; though, indeed, I don't
know why I should be."

"I never knew you afraid of anything yet," said the doctor, smiling gently.

"Well, then, I'll not end by turning coward. Now, doctor, tell the truth to me; what do you
expect me to do for that girl of yours that we were talking of--Mary's child?"

There was a pause for a moment, for Thorne was slow to answer him.

"You would not let me see her, you know, though she is my niece as truly as she is yours."

"Nothing," at last said the doctor, slowly. "I expect nothing. I would not let you see her,
and therefore, I expect nothing."

"She will have it all if poor Louis should die," said Sir Roger.

"If you intend it so you should put her name into the will," said the other. "Not that I ask
you or wish you to do so. Mary, thank God, can do without wealth."

"Thorne, on one condition I will put her name into it. I will alter it all on one condition.
Let the two cousins be man and wife--let Louis marry poor Mary's child."

The proposition for a moment took away the doctor's breath, and he was unable to answer. Not
for all the wealth of India would he have given up his lamb to that young wolf, even though
he had had the power to do so. But that lamb--lamb though she was--had, as he well knew, a
will of her own on such a matter. What alliance could be more impossible, thought he to himself,
than one between Mary Thorne and Louis Scatcherd?

"I will alter it all if you will give me your hand upon it that you will do your best to bring
about this marriage. Everything shall be his on the day he marries her; and should he die unmarried,
it shall all then be hers by name. Say the word, Thorne, and she shall come here at once. I
shall yet have time to see her."

But Dr Thorne did not say the word; just at the moment he said nothing, but he slowly shook
his head.

"Why not, Thorne?"

"My friend, it is impossible."

"Why impossible?"

"Her hand is not mine to dispose of, nor is her heart."

"Then let her come over herself."

"What! Scatcherd, that the son might make love to her while the father is so dangerously ill!
Bid her come to look for a rich husband! That would not be seemly, would it?"

"No; not for that: let her come merely that I may see her; that we may all know her. I will
leave the matter then in your hands if you will promise me to do your best."

"But, my friend, in this matter I cannot do my best. I can do nothing. And, indeed, I may say
at once, that it is altogether out of the question. I know--"

"What do you know?" said the baronet, turning on him almost angrily. "What can you know to
make you say that it is impossible? Is she a pearl of such price that a man may not win her?"

"She is a pearl of great price."

"Believe me, doctor, money goes far in winning such pearls."

"Perhaps so; I know little about it. But this I do know, that money will not win her. Let us
talk of something else; believe me it is useless for us to think of this."

"Yes; if you set your face against it obstinately. You must think very poorly of Louis if you
suppose that no girl can fancy him."

"I have not said so, Scatcherd."

"To have the spending of ten thousand a year, and be a baronet's lady! Why, doctor, what is
it you expect for this girl?"

"Not much, indeed; not much. A quiet heart and a quiet home; not much more."

"Thorne, if you will be ruled by me in this, she shall be the most topping woman in this county."

"My friend, my friend, why thus grieve me? Why should you thus harass yourself? I tell you
it is impossible. They have never seen each other; they have nothing, and can have nothing
in common; their tastes, and wishes, and pursuits are different. Besides, Scatcherd, marriages
never answer that are so made; believe me, it is impossible."

The contractor threw himself back on his bed, and lay for some ten minutes perfectly quiet;
so much so that the doctor began to think that he was sleeping. So thinking, and wearied by
the watching, Dr Thorne was beginning to creep quietly from the room, when his companion again
roused himself, almost with vehemence.

"You won't do this thing for me, then?" said he.

"Do it! It is not for you or me to do such things as that. Such things must be left to those
concerned themselves."

"You will not even help me?"

"Not in this thing, Sir Roger."

"Then, by ----, she shall not under any circumstances ever have a shilling of mine. Give me
some of that stuff there," and he again pointed to the brandy bottle which stood ever within
his sight.

The doctor poured out and handed to him another small modicum of spirit.

"Nonsense, man; fill the glass. I'll stand no nonsense now. I'll be master in my own house
to the last. Give it here, I tell you. Ten thousand devils are tearing me within. You--you
could have comforted me; but you would not. Fill the glass I tell you."

"I should be killing you were I to do it."

"Killing me! killing me! you are always talking of killing me. Do you suppose that I am afraid
to die? Do not I know how soon it is coming? Give me the brandy, I say, or I will be out across
the room to fetch it."

"No, Scatcherd. I cannot give it to you; not while I am here. Do you remember how you were
engaged this morning?"--he had that morning taken the sacrament from the parish clergyman--"you
would not wish to make me guilty of murder, would you?"

"Nonsense! You are talking nonsense; habit is second nature. I tell you I shall sink without
it. Why, you know I always get it directly your back is turned. Come, I will not be bullied
in my own house; give me that bottle, I say!"--and Sir Roger essayed, vainly enough, to raise
himself from the bed.

"Stop, Scatcherd; I will give it you--I will help you. It may be that habit is second nature."
Sir Roger in his determined energy had swallowed, without thinking of it, the small quantity
which the doctor had before poured out for him, and still held the empty glass within his hand.
This the doctor now took and filled nearly to the brim.

"Come, Thorne, a bumper; a bumper for this once. 'Whatever the drink, it a bumper must be.'
You stingy fellow! I would not treat you so. Well--well."

"It's as full as you can hold it, Scatcherd."

"Try me; try me! my hand is a rock; at least at holding liquor." And then he drained the contents
of the glass, which were sufficient in quantity to have taken away the breath from any ordinary
man.

"Ah, I'm better now. But, Thorne, I do love a full glass, ha! ha! ha!"

There was something frightful, almost sickening, in the peculiar hoarse guttural tone of his
voice. The sounds came from him as though steeped in brandy, and told, all too plainly, the
havoc which the alcohol had made. There was a fire too about his eyes which contrasted with
his sunken cheeks: his hanging jaw, unshorn beard, and haggard face were terrible to look at.
His hands and arms were hot and clammy, but so thin and wasted! Of his lower limbs the lost
use had not returned to him, so that in all his efforts at vehemence he was controlled by his
own want of vitality. When he supported himself, half-sitting against the pillows, he was in
a continual tremor; and yet, as he boasted, he could still lift his glass steadily to his mouth.
Such now was the hero of whom that ready compiler of memoirs had just finished his correct
and succinct account.

After he had had his brandy, he sat glaring a while at vacancy, as though he was dead to all
around him, and was thinking--thinking-- thinking of things in the infinite distance of the past.

"Shall I go now," said the doctor, "and send Lady Scatcherd to you?"

"Wait a while, doctor; just one minute longer. So you will do nothing for Louis, then?"

"I will do everything for him that I can do."

"Ah, yes! everything but the one thing that will save him. Well, I will not ask you again.
But remember, Thorne, I shall alter my will to-morrow."

"Do so by all means; you may well alter it for the better. If I may advise you, you will have
down your own business attorney from London. If you will let me send he will be here before
to-morrow night."

"Thank you for nothing, Thorne: I can manage that matter myself. Now leave me; but remember,
you have ruined that girl's fortune."

The doctor did leave him, and went not altogether happy to his room. He could not but confess
to himself that he had, despite himself as it were, fed himself with hope that Mary's future
might be made more secure, aye, and brighter too, by some small unheeded fraction broken off
from the huge mass of her uncle's wealth. Such hope, if it had amounted to hope, was now all
gone. But this was not all, nor was this the worst of it. That he had done right in utterly
repudiating all idea of a marriage between Mary and her cousin--of that he was certain enough;
that no earthly consideration would have induced Mary to plight her troth to such a man--that,
with him, was as certain as doom. But how far had he done right in keeping her from the sight
of her uncle? How could he justify it to himself if he had thus robbed her of her inheritance,
seeing that he had done so from a selfish fear lest she, who was now all his own, should be
known to the world as belonging to others rather than to him? He had taken upon him on her
behalf to reject wealth as valueless; and yet he had no sooner done so than he began to consume
his hours with reflecting how great to her would be the value of wealth. And thus, when Sir
Roger told him, as he left the room, that he had ruined Mary's fortune, he was hardly able
to bear the taunt with equanimity.

On the next morning, after paying his professional visit to his patient, and satisfying himself
that the end was now drawing near with steps terribly quickened, he went down to Greshamsbury.

"How long is this to last, uncle?" said his niece, with sad voice, as he again prepared to
return to Boxall Hill.

"Not long, Mary; do not begrudge him a few more hours of life."

"No, I do not, uncle. I will say nothing more about it. Is his son with him?" And then, perversely
enough, she persisted in asking numerous questions about Louis Scatcherd.

"Is he likely to marry, uncle?"

"I hope so, my dear."

"Will he be so very rich?"

"Yes; ultimately he will be very rich."

"He will be a baronet, will he not?"

"Yes, my dear."

"What is he like, uncle?"

"Like--I never know what a young man is like. He is like a man with red hair."

"Uncle, you are the worst hand in describing I ever knew. If I'd seen him for five minutes,
I'd be bound to make a portrait of him; and you, if you were describing a dog, you'd only say
what colour his hair was."

"Well, he's a little man."

"Exactly, just as I should say that Mrs Umbleby had a red-haired little dog. I wish I had known
these Scatcherds, uncle. I do so admire people that can push themselves in the world. I wish
I had known Sir Roger."

"You will never know him now, Mary."

"I suppose not. I am so sorry for him. Is Lady Scatcherd nice?"

"She is an excellent woman."

"I hope I may know her some day. You are so much there now, uncle; I wonder whether you ever
mention me to them. If you do, tell her from me how much I grieve for her."

That same night Dr Thorne again found himself alone with Sir Roger. The sick man was much more
tranquil, and apparently more at ease than he had been on the preceding night. He said nothing
about his will, and not a word about Mary Thorne; but the doctor knew that Winterbones and
a notary's clerk from Barchester had been in the bedroom a great part of the day; and, as he
knew also that the great man of business was accustomed to do his most important work by the
hands of such tools as these, he did not doubt but that the will had been altered and remodelled.
Indeed, he thought it more than probable, that when it was opened it would be found to be wholly
different in its provisions from that which Sir Roger had already described.

"Louis is clever enough," he said, "sharp enough, I mean. He won't squander the property."

"He has good natural abilities," said the doctor.

"Excellent, excellent," said the father. "He may do well, very well, if he can only be kept
from this;" and Sir Roger held up the empty wine-glass which stood by his bedside. "What a
life he may have before him!--and to throw it away for this!" and as he spoke he took the glass
and tossed it across the room. "Oh, doctor! would that it were all to begin again!"

"We all wish that, I dare say, Scatcherd."

"No, you don't wish it. You ain't worth a shilling, and yet you regret nothing. I am worth
half a million in one way or the other, and I regret everything--everything--everything!"

"You should not think in that way, Scatcherd; you need not think so. Yesterday you told Mr
Clarke that you were comfortable in your mind." Mr Clarke was the clergyman who had visited him.

"Of course I did. What else could I say when he asked me? It wouldn't have been civil to have
told him that his time and words were all thrown away. But, Thorne, believe me, when a man's
heart is sad--sad--sad to the core, a few words from a parson at the last moment will never
make it all right."

"May He have mercy on you, my friend!--if you will think of Him, and look to Him, He will have
mercy on you."

"Well--I will try, doctor; but would that it were all to do again. You'll see to the old woman
for my sake, won't you?"

"What, Lady Scatcherd?"

"Lady Devil! If anything angers me now it is that 'ladyship'--her to be my lady! Why, when
I came out of jail that time, the poor creature had hardly a shoe to her foot. But it wasn't
her fault, Thorne; it was none of her doing. She never asked for such nonsense."

"She has been an excellent wife, Scatcherd; and what is more, she is an excellent woman. She
is, and ever will be, one of my dearest friends."

"Thank'ee, doctor, thank'ee. Yes; she has been a good wife--better for a poor man than a rich
one; but then, that was what she was born to. You won't let her be knocked about by them, will
you, Thorne?"

Dr Thorne again assured him, that as long as he lived Lady Scatcherd should never want one
true friend; in making this promise, however, he managed to drop all allusion to the obnoxious
title.

"You'll be with him as much as possible, won't you?" again asked the baronet, after lying quite
silent for a quarter of an hour.

"With whom?" said the doctor, who was then all but asleep.

"With my poor boy; with Louis."

"If he will let me, I will," said the doctor.

"And, doctor, when you see a glass at his mouth, dash it down; thrust it down, though you thrust
out the teeth with it. When you see that, Thorne, tell him of his father--tell him what his
father might have been but for that; tell him how his father died like a beast, because he
could not keep himself from drink."

These, reader, were the last words spoken by Sir Roger Scatcherd. As he uttered them he rose
up in bed with the same vehemence which he had shown on the former evening. But in the very
act of doing so he was again struck by paralysis, and before nine on the following morning
all was over.

"Oh, my man--my own, own man!" exclaimed the widow, remembering in the paroxysm of her grief
nothing but the loves of their early days; "the best, the brightest, the cleverest of them all!"

Some weeks after this Sir Roger was buried, with much pomp and ceremony, within the precincts
of Barchester Cathedral; and a monument was put up to him soon after, in which he was portrayed
as smoothing a block of granite with a mallet and chisel; while his eagle eye, disdaining such
humble work, was fixed upon some intricate mathematical instrument above him. Could Sir Roger
have seen it himself, he would probably have declared, that no workman was ever worth his salt
who looked one way while he rowed another.

Immediately after the funeral the will was opened, and Dr Thorne discovered that the clauses
of it were exactly identical with those which his friend had described to him some months back.
Nothing had been altered; nor had the document been unfolded since that strange codicil was
added, in which it was declared that Dr Thorne knew--and only Dr Thorne--who was the eldest
child of the testator's only sister. At the same time, however, a joint executor with Dr Thorne
had been named--one Mr Stock, a man of railway fame--and Dr Thorne himself was made a legatee
to the humble extent of a thousand pounds. A life income of a thousand pounds a year was left
to Lady Scatcherd.

CHAPTER XXVI

War

We need not follow Sir Roger to his grave, nor partake of the baked meats which were furnished
for his funeral banquet. Such men as Sir Roger Scatcherd are always well buried, and we have
already seen that his glories were duly told to posterity in the graphic diction of his sepulchral
monument. In a few days the doctor had returned to his quiet home, and Sir Louis found himself
reigning at Boxall Hill in his father's stead--with, however, a much diminished sway, and,
as he thought it, but a poor exchequer. We must soon return to him and say something of his
career as a baronet; but for the present, we may go back to our more pleasant friends at Greshamsbury.

But our friends at Greshamsbury had not been making themselves pleasant--not so pleasant to
each other as circumstances would have admitted. In those days which the doctor had felt himself
bound to pass, if not altogether at Boxall Hill, yet altogether away from his own home, so
as to admit of his being as much as possible with his patient, Mary had been thrown more than
ever with Patience Oriel, and, also, almost more than ever with Beatrice Gresham. As regarded
Mary, she would doubtless have preferred the companionship of Patience, though she loved Beatrice
far the best; but she had no choice. When she went to the parsonage Beatrice came there also,
and when Patience came to the doctor's house Beatrice either accompanied or followed her. Mary
could hardly have rejected their society, even had she felt it wise to do so. She would in
such case have been all alone, and her severance from the Greshamsbury house and household,
from the big family in which she had for so many years been almost at home, would have made
such solitude almost unendurable.

And then these two girls both knew--not her secret: she had no secret--but the little history
of her ill-treatment. They knew that though she had been blameless in this matter, yet she
had been the one to bear the punishment; and, as girls and bosom friends, they could not but
sympathise with her, and endow her with heroic attributes; make her, in fact, as we are doing,
their little heroine for the nonce. This was, perhaps, not serviceable for Mary; but it was
far from being disagreeable.

The tendency to finding matter for hero-worship in Mary's endurance was much stronger with
Beatrice than with Miss Oriel. Miss Oriel was the elder, and naturally less afflicted with
the sentimentation of romance. She had thrown herself into Mary's arms because she had seen
that it was essentially necessary for Mary's comfort that she should do so. She was anxious
to make her friend smile, and to smile with her. Beatrice was quite as true in her sympathy;
but she rather wished that she and Mary might weep in unison, shed mutual tears, and break
their hearts together.

Patience had spoken of Frank's love as a misfortune, of his conduct as erroneous, and to be
excused only by his youth, and had never appeared to surmise that Mary also might be in love
as well as he. But to Beatrice the affair was a tragic difficulty, admitting of no solution;
a Gordian knot, not to be cut; a misery now and for ever. She would always talk about Frank
when she and Mary were alone; and, to speak the truth, Mary did not stop her as she perhaps
should have done. As for a marriage between them, that was impossible; Beatrice was well sure
of that: it was Frank's unfortunate destiny that he must marry money--money, and, as Beatrice
sometimes thoughtlessly added, cutting Mary to the quick,--money and family also. Under such
circumstances a marriage between them was quite impossible; but not the less did Beatrice declare,
that she would have loved Mary as her sister-in-law had it been possible; and how worthy Frank
was of a girl's love, had such love been permissible.

"It is so cruel," Beatrice would say; "so very, very, cruel. You would have suited him in every
way."

"Nonsense, Trichy; I should have suited him in no possible way at all; nor he me."

"Oh, but you would--exactly. Papa loves you so well."

"And mamma; that would have been so nice."

"Yes; and mamma, too--that is, had you had a fortune," said the daughter, naïvely. "She always
liked you personally, always."

"Did she?"

"Always. And we all love you so."

"Especially Lady Alexandrina."

"That would not have signified, for Frank cannot endure the de Courcys himself."

"My dear, it does not matter one straw whom your brother can endure or not endure just at present.
His character is to be formed, and his tastes, and his heart also."

"Oh, Mary!--his heart."

"Yes, his heart; not the fact of his having a heart. I think he has a heart; but he himself
does not yet understand it."

"Oh, Mary! you do not know him."

Such conversations were not without danger to poor Mary's comfort. It came soon to be the case
that she looked rather for this sort of sympathy from Beatrice, than for Miss Oriel's pleasant
but less piquant gaiety.

So the days of the doctor's absence were passed, and so also the first week after his return.
During this week it was almost daily necessary that the squire should be with him. The doctor
was now the legal holder of Sir Roger's property, and, as such, the holder also of all the
mortgages on Mr Gresham's property; and it was natural that they should be much together. The
doctor would not, however, go up to Greshamsbury on any other than medical business; and it
therefore became necessary that the squire should be a good deal at the doctor's house.

Then the Lady Arabella became unhappy in her mind. Frank, it was true, was away at Cambridge,
and had been successfully kept out of Mary's way since the suspicion of danger had fallen upon
Lady Arabella's mind. Frank was away, and Mary was systematically banished, with due acknowledgement
from all the powers in Greshamsbury. But this was not enough for Lady Arabella as long as her
daughter still habitually consorted with the female culprit, and as long as her husband consorted
with the male culprit. It seemed to Lady Arabella at this moment as though, in banishing Mary
from the house, she had in effect banished herself from the most intimate of the Greshamsbury
social circles. She magnified in her own mind the importance of the conferences between the
girls, and was not without some fear that the doctor might be talking the squire over into
very dangerous compliance.

She resolved, therefore, on another duel with the doctor. In the first she had been pre-eminently
and unexpectedly successful. No young sucking dove could have been more mild than that terrible
enemy whom she had for years regarded as being too puissant for attack. In ten minutes she
had vanquished him, and succeeded in banishing both him and his niece from the house without
losing the value of his services. As is always the case with us, she had begun to despise the
enemy she had conquered, and to think that the foe, once beaten, could never rally.

Her object was to break off all confidential intercourse between Beatrice and Mary, and to
interrupt, as far as she could do it, that between the doctor and the squire. This, it may
be said, could be more easily done by skilful management within her own household. She had,
however, tried that and failed. She had said much to Beatrice as to the imprudence of her friendship
with Mary, and she had done this purposely before the squire; injudiciously however,--for the
squire had immediately taken Mary's part, and had declared that he had no wish to see a quarrel
between his family and that of the doctor; that Mary Thorne was in every way a good girl, and
an eligible friend for his own child; and had ended by declaring, that he would not have Mary
persecuted for Frank's fault. This had not been the end, nor nearly the end of what had been
said on the matter at Greshamsbury; but the end, when it came, came in this wise, that Lady
Arabella determined to say a few words to the doctor as to the expediency of forbidding familiar
intercourse between Mary and any of the Greshamsbury people.

With this view Lady Arabella absolutely bearded the lion in his den, the doctor in his shop.
She had heard that both Mary and Beatrice were to pass a certain afternoon at the parsonage,
and took that opportunity of calling at the doctor's house. A period of many years had passed
since she had last so honoured that abode. Mary, indeed, had been so much one of her own family
that the ceremony of calling on her had never been thought necessary; and thus, unless Mary
had been absolutely ill, there would have been nothing to bring her ladyship to the house.
All this she knew would add to the importance of the occasion, and she judged it prudent to
make the occasion as important as it might well be.

She was so far successful that she soon found herself tête-à-tête with the doctor in his own
study. She was no whit dismayed by the pair of human thigh-bones which lay close to his hand,
and which, when he was talking in that den of his own, he was in the constant habit of handling
with much energy; nor was she frightened out of her propriety even by the little child's skull
which grinned at her from off the chimney-piece.

"Doctor," she said, as soon as the first complimentary greetings were over, speaking in her
kindest and most would-be-confidential tone, "Doctor, I am still uneasy about that boy of mine,
and I have thought it best to come and see you at once, and tell you freely what I think."

The doctor bowed, and said that he was very sorry that she should have any cause for uneasiness
about his young friend Frank.

"Indeed, I am very uneasy, doctor; and having, as I do have, such reliance on your prudence,
and such perfect confidence in your friendship, I have thought it best to come and speak to
you openly:" thereupon the Lady Arabella paused, and the doctor bowed again.

"Nobody knows so well as you do the dreadful state of the squire's affairs."

"Not so very dreadful; not so very dreadful," said the doctor, mildly: "that is, as far as I know."

"Yes they are, doctor; very dreadful; very dreadful indeed. You know how much he owes to this
young man: I do not, for the squire never tells anything to me; but I know that it is a very
large sum of money; enough to swamp the estate and ruin Frank. Now I call that very dreadful."

"No, no, not ruin him, Lady Arabella; not ruin him, I hope."

"However, I did not come to talk to you about that. As I said before, I know nothing of the
squire's affairs, and, as a matter of course, I do not ask you to tell me. But I am sure you
will agree with me in this, that, as a mother, I cannot but be interested about my only son,"
and Lady Arabella put her cambric handkerchief to her eyes.

"Of course you are; of course you are," said the doctor; "and, Lady Arabella, my opinion of
Frank is such, that I feel sure that he will do well;" and, in his energy, Dr Thorne brandished
one of the thigh-bones almost in the lady's face.

"I hope he will; I am sure I hope he will. But, doctor, he has such dangers to contend with;
he is so warm and impulsive that I fear his heart will bring him into trouble. Now, you know,
unless Frank marries money he is lost."

The doctor made no answer to this last appeal, but as he sat and listened a slight frown came
across his brow.

"He must marry money, doctor. Now we have, you see, with your assistance, contrived to separate
him from dear Mary--"

"With my assistance, Lady Arabella! I have given no assistance, nor have I meddled in the matter;
nor will I."

"Well, doctor, perhaps not meddled; but you agreed with me, you know, that the two young people
had been imprudent."

"I agreed to no such thing, Lady Arabella; never, never. I not only never agreed that Mary
had been imprudent, but I will not agree to it now, and will not allow any one to assert it
in my presence without contradicting it:" and then the doctor worked away at the thigh-bones
in a manner that did rather alarm her ladyship.

"At any rate, you thought that the young people had better be kept apart."

"No; neither did I think that: my niece, I felt sure, was safe from danger. I knew that she
would do nothing that would bring either her or me to shame."

"Not to shame," said the lady, apologetically, as it were, using the word perhaps not exactly
in the doctor's sense.

"I felt no alarm for her," continued the doctor, "and desired no change. Frank is your son,
and it is for you to look to him. You thought proper to do so by desiring Mary to absent herself
from Greshamsbury."

"Oh, no, no, no!" said Lady Arabella.

"But you did, Lady Arabella; and as Greshamsbury is your home, neither I nor my niece had any
ground of complaint. We acquiesced, not without much suffering, but we did acquiesce; and you,
I think, can have no ground of complaint against us."

Lady Arabella had hardly expected that the doctor would reply to her mild and conciliatory
exordium with so much sternness. He had yielded so easily to her on the former occasion. She
did not comprehend that when she uttered her sentence of exile against Mary, she had given
an order which she had the power of enforcing; but that obedience to that order had now placed
Mary altogether beyond her jurisdiction. She was, therefore, a little surprised, and for a
few moments overawed by the doctor's manner; but she soon recovered herself, remembering, doubtless,
that fortune favours none but the brave.

"I make no complaint, Dr Thorne," she said, after assuming a tone more befitting a de Courcy
than that hitherto used, "I make no complaint either as regards you or Mary."

"You are very kind, Lady Arabella."

"But I think that it is my duty to put a stop, a peremptory stop to anything like a love affair
between my son and your niece."

"I have not the least objection in life. If there is such a love affair, put a stop to it--that
is, if you have the power."

Here the doctor was doubtless imprudent. But he had begun to think that he had yielded sufficiently
to the lady; and he had begun to resolve, also, that though it would not become him to encourage
even the idea of such a marriage, he would make Lady Arabella understand that he thought his
niece quite good enough for her son, and that the match, if regarded as imprudent, was to be
regarded as equally imprudent on both sides. He would not suffer that Mary and her heart and
feelings and interest should be altogether postponed to those of the young heir; and, perhaps,
he was unconsciously encouraged in this determination by the reflection that Mary herself might
perhaps become a young heiress.

"It is my duty," said Lady Arabella, repeating her words with even a stronger de Courcy intonation;
"and your duty also, Dr Thorne."

"My duty!" said he, rising from his chair and leaning on the table with the two thigh-bones.
"Lady Arabella, pray understand at once, that I repudiate any such duty, and will have nothing
whatever to do with it."

"But you do not mean to say that you will encourage this unfortunate boy to marry your niece?"

"The unfortunate boy, Lady Arabella--whom, by the by, I regard as a very fortunate young man--is
your son, not mine. I shall take no steps about his marriage, either one way or the other."

"You think it right, then, that your niece should throw herself in his way?"

"Throw herself in his way! What would you say if I came up to Greshamsbury, and spoke to you
of your daughters in such language? What would my dear friend Mr Gresham say, if some neighbour's
wife should come and so speak to him? I will tell you what he would say: he would quietly beg
her to go back to her own home and meddle only with her own matters."

This was dreadful to Lady Arabella. Even Dr Thorne had never before dared thus to lower her
to the level of common humanity, and liken her to any other wife in the country-side. Moreover,
she was not quite sure whether he, the parish doctor, was not desiring her, the earl's daughter,
to go home and mind her own business. On this first point, however, there seemed to be no room
for doubt, of which she gave herself the benefit.

"It would not become me to argue with you, Dr Thorne," she said.

"Not at least on this subject," said he.

"I can only repeat that I mean nothing offensive to our dear Mary; for whom, I think I may
say, I have always shown almost a mother's care."

"Neither am I, nor is Mary, ungrateful for the kindness she has received at Greshamsbury."

"But I must do my duty: my own children must be my first consideration."

"Of course they must, Lady Arabella; that's of course."

"And, therefore, I have called on you to say that I think it is imprudent that Beatrice and
Mary should be so much together."

The doctor had been standing during the latter part of this conversation, but now he began
to walk about, still holding the two bones like a pair of dumb-bells.

"God bless my soul!" he said; "God bless my soul! Why, Lady Arabella, do you suspect your own
daughter as well as your own son? Do you think that Beatrice is assisting Mary in preparing
this wicked clandestine marriage? I tell you fairly, Lady Arabella, the present tone of your
mind is such that I cannot understand it."

"I suspect nobody, Dr Thorne; but young people will be young."

"And old people must be old, I suppose; the more's the pity. Lady Arabella, Mary is the same
to me as my own daughter, and owes me the obedience of a child; but as I do not disapprove
of your daughter Beatrice as an acquaintance for her, but rather, on the other hand, regard
with pleasure their friendship, you cannot expect that I should take any steps to put an end
to it."

"But suppose it should lead to renewed intercourse between Frank and Mary?"

"I have no objection. Frank is a very nice young fellow, gentleman-like in his manners, and
neighbourly in his disposition."

"Dr Thorne--"

"Lady Arabella--"

"I cannot believe that you really intend to express a wish--"

"You are quite right. I have not intended to express any wish; nor do I intend to do so. Mary
is at liberty, within certain bounds--which I am sure she will not pass--to choose her own
friends. I think she has not chosen badly as regards Miss Beatrice Gresham; and should she
even add Frank Gresham to the number--"

"Friends! why they were more than friends; they were declared lovers."

"I doubt that, Lady Arabella, because I have not heard of it from Mary. But even if it were
so, I do not see why I should object."

"Not object!"

"As I said before, Frank is, to my thinking, an excellent young man. Why should I object?"

"Dr Thorne!" said her ladyship, now also rising from her chair in a state of too evident perturbation.

"Why should I object? It is for you, Lady Arabella, to look after your lambs; for me to see
that, if possible, no harm shall come to mine. If you think that Mary is an improper acquaintance
for your children, it is for you to guide them; for you and their father. Say what you think
fit to your own daughter; but pray understand, once for all, that I will allow no one to interfere
with my niece."

"Interfere!" said Lady Arabella, now absolutely confused by the severity of the doctor's manner.

"I will allow no one to interfere with her; no one, Lady Arabella. She has suffered very greatly
from imputations which you have most unjustly thrown on her. It was, however, your undoubted
right to turn her out of your house if you thought fit;--though, as a woman who had known her
for so many years, you might, I think, have treated her with more forbearance. That, however,
was your right, and you exercised it. There your privilege stops; yes, and must stop, Lady
Arabella. You shall not persecute her here, on the only spot of ground she can call her own."

"Persecute her, Dr Thorne! You do not mean to say that I have persecuted her?"

"Ah! but I do mean to say so. You do persecute her, and would continue to do so did I not defend
her. It is not sufficient that she is forbidden to enter your domain--and so forbidden with
the knowledge of all the country round--but you must come here also with the hope of interrupting
all the innocent pleasures of her life. Fearing lest she should be allowed even to speak to
your son, to hear a word of him through his own sister, you would put her in prison, tie her
up, keep her from the light of day--"

"Dr Thorne! how can you--"

But the doctor was not to be interrupted.

"It never occurs to you to tie him up, to put him in prison. No; he is the heir of Greshamsbury;
he is your son, an earl's grandson. It is only natural, after all, that he should throw a few
foolish words at the doctor's niece. But she! it is an offence not to be forgiven on her part
that she should, however, unwillingly, have been forced to listen to them! Now understand me,
Lady Arabella; if any of your family come to my house I shall be delighted to welcome them:
if Mary should meet any of them elsewhere I shall be delighted to hear of it. Should she tell
me to-morrow that she was engaged to marry Frank, I should talk the matter over with her, quite
coolly, solely with a view to her interest, as would be my duty; feeling, at the same time,
that Frank would be lucky in having such a wife. Now you know my mind, Lady Arabella. It is
so I should do my duty;--you can do yours as you may think fit."

Lady Arabella had by this time perceived that she was not destined on this occasion to gain
any great victory. She, however, was angry as well as the doctor. It was not the man's vehemence
that provoked her so much as his evident determination to break down the prestige of her rank,
and place her on a footing in no respect superior to his own. He had never before been so audaciously
arrogant; and, as she moved towards the door, she determined in her wrath that she would never
again have confidential intercourse with him in any relation of life whatsoever.

"Dr Thorne," said she. "I think you have forgotten yourself. You must excuse me if I say that
after what has passed I--I--I--"

"Certainly," said he, fully understanding what she meant; and bowing low as he opened first
the study-door, then the front-door, then the garden-gate.

And then Lady Arabella stalked off, not without full observation from Mrs Yates Umbleby and
her friend Miss Gushing, who lived close by.

CHAPTER XXVII

Miss Thorne Goes on a Visit

And now began the unpleasant things at Greshamsbury of which we have here told. When Lady Arabella
walked away from the doctor's house she resolved that, let it cost what it might, there should
be war to the knife between her and him. She had been insulted by him--so at least she said
to herself, and so she was prepared to say to others also--and it was not to be borne that
a de Courcy should allow her parish doctor to insult her with impunity. She would tell her
husband with all the dignity that she could assume, that it had now become absolutely necessary
that he should protect his wife by breaking entirely with his unmannered neighbour; and, as
regarded the young members of her family, she would use the authority of a mother, and absolutely
forbid them to hold any intercourse with Mary Thorne. So resolving, she walked quickly back
to her own house.

The doctor, when left alone, was not quite satisfied with the part he had taken in the interview.
He had spoken from impulse rather than from judgement, and, as is generally the case with men
who do so speak, he had afterwards to acknowledge to himself that he had been imprudent. He
accused himself probably of more violence than he had really used, and was therefore unhappy;
but, nevertheless, his indignation was not at rest. He was angry with himself; but not on that
account the less angry with Lady Arabella. She was cruel, overbearing, and unreasonable; cruel
in the most cruel of manners, so he thought; but not on that account was he justified in forgetting
the forbearance due from a gentleman to a lady. Mary, moreover, had owed much to the kindness
of this woman, and, therefore, Dr Thorne felt that he should have forgiven much.

Thus the doctor walked about his room, much disturbed; now accusing himself for having been
so angry with Lady Arabella, and then feeding his own anger by thinking of her misconduct.

The only immediate conclusion at which he resolved was this, that it was unnecessary that he
should say anything to Mary on the subject of her ladyship's visit. There was, no doubt, sorrow
enough in store for his darling; why should he aggravate it? Lady Arabella would doubtless
not stop now in her course; but why should he accelerate the evil which she would doubtless
be able to effect?

Lady Arabella, when she returned to the house, allowed no grass to grow under her feet. As
she entered the house she desired that Miss Beatrice should be sent to her directly she returned;
and she desired also, that as soon as the squire should be in his room a message to that effect
might be immediately brought to her.

"Beatrice," she said, as soon as the young lady appeared before her, and in speaking she assumed
her firmest tone of authority, "Beatrice, I am sorry, my dear, to say anything that is unpleasant
to you, but I must make it a positive request that you will for the future drop all intercourse
with Dr Thorne's family."

Beatrice, who had received Lady Arabella's message immediately on entering the house, and had
run upstairs imagining that some instant haste was required, now stood before her mother rather
out of breath, holding her bonnet by the strings.

"Oh, mamma!" she exclaimed, "what on earth has happened?"

"My dear," said the mother, "I cannot really explain to you what has happened; but I must ask
you to give me your positive assurance that you will comply with my request."

"You don't mean that I am not to see Mary any more?"

"Yes, I do, my dear; at any rate, for the present. When I tell you that your brother's interest
imperatively demands it, I am sure that you will not refuse me."

Beatrice did not refuse, but she did not appear too willing to comply. She stood silent, leaning
against the end of a sofa and twisting her bonnet-strings in her hand.

"Well, Beatrice--"

"But, mamma, I don't understand."

Lady Arabella had said that she could not exactly explain: but she found it necessary to attempt
to do so.

"Dr Thorne has openly declared to me that a marriage between poor Frank and Mary is all he
could desire for his niece. After such unparalleled audacity as that, even your father will
see the necessity of breaking with him."

"Dr Thorne! Oh, mamma, you must have misunderstood him."

"My dear, I am not apt to misunderstand people; especially when I am so much in earnest as
I was in talking to Dr Thorne."

"But, mamma, I know so well what Mary herself thinks about it."

"And I know what Dr Thorne thinks about it; he, at any rate, has been candid in what he said;
there can be no doubt on earth that he has spoken his true thoughts; there can be no reason
to doubt him: of course such a match would be all that he could wish."

"Mamma, I feel sure that there is some mistake."

"Very well, my dear. I know that you are infatuated about these people, and that you are always
inclined to contradict what I say to you; but, remember, I expect that you will obey me when
I tell you not to go to Dr Thorne's house any more."

"But, mamma--"

"I expect you to obey me, Beatrice. Though you are so prone to contradict, you have never disobeyed
me; and I fully trust that you will not do so now."

Lady Arabella had begun by exacting, or trying to exact a promise, but as she found that this
was not forthcoming, she thought it better to give up the point without a dispute. It might
be that Beatrice would absolutely refuse to pay this respect to her mother's authority, and
then where would she have been?

At this moment a servant came up to say that the squire was in his room, and Lady Arabella
was opportunely saved the necessity of discussing the matter further with her daughter. "I
am now," she said, "going to see your father on the same subject; you may be quite sure, Beatrice,
that I should not willingly speak to him on any matter relating to Dr Thorne did I not find
it absolutely necessary to do so."

This Beatrice knew was true, and she did therefore feel convinced that something terrible must
have happened.

While Lady Arabella opened her budget the squire sat quite silent, listening to her with apparent
respect. She found it necessary that her description to him should be much more elaborate than
that which she had vouchsafed to her daughter, and, in telling her grievance, she insisted
most especially on the personal insult which had been offered to herself.

"After what has now happened," said she, not quite able to repress a tone of triumph as she
spoke, "I do expect, Mr Gresham, that you will--will--"

"Will what, my dear?"

"Will at least protect me from the repetition of such treatment."

"You are not afraid that Dr Thorne will come here to attack you? As far as I can understand,
he never comes near the place, unless when you send for him."

"No; I do not think that he will come to Greshamsbury any more. I believe I have put a stop
to that."

"Then what is it, my dear, that you want me to do?"

Lady Arabella paused a minute before she replied. The game which she now had to play was not
very easy; she knew, or thought she knew, that her husband, in his heart of hearts, much preferred
his friend to the wife of his bosom, and that he would, if he could, shuffle out of noticing
the doctor's iniquities. It behoved her, therefore, to put them forward in such a way that
they must be noticed.

"I suppose, Mr Gresham, you do not wish that Frank should marry the girl?"

"I do not think there is the slightest chance of such a thing; and I am quite sure that Dr
Thorne would not encourage it."

"But I tell you, Mr Gresham, that he says he will encourage it."

"Oh, you have misunderstood him."

"Of course; I always misunderstand everything. I know that. I misunderstood it when I told
you how you would distress yourself if you took those nasty hounds."

"I have had other troubles more expensive than the hounds," said the poor squire, sighing.

"Oh, yes; I know what you mean; a wife and family are expensive, of course. It is a little
too late now to complain of that."

"My dear, it is always too late to complain of any troubles when they are no longer to be avoided.
We need not, therefore, talk any more about the hounds at present."

"I do not wish to speak of them, Mr Gresham."

"Nor I."

"But I hope you will not think me unreasonable if I am anxious to know what you intend to do
about Dr Thorne."

"To do?"

"Yes; I suppose you will do something: you do not wish to see your son marry such a girl as
Mary Thorne."

"As far as the girl herself is concerned," said the squire, turning rather red, "I am not sure
that he could do much better. I know nothing whatever against Mary. Frank, however, cannot
afford to make such a match. It would be his ruin."

"Of course it would; utter ruin; he never could hold up his head again. Therefore it is I ask,
What do you intend to do?"

The squire was bothered. He had no intention whatever of doing anything, and no belief in his
wife's assertion as to Dr Thorne's iniquity. But he did not know how to get her out of the
room. She asked him the same question over and over again, and on each occasion urged on him
the heinousness of the insult to which she personally had been subjected; so that at last he
was driven to ask her what it was she wished him to do.

"Well, then, Mr Gresham, if you ask me, I must say, that I think you should abstain from any
intercourse with Dr Thorne whatever."

"Break off all intercourse with him?"

"Yes."

"What do you mean? He has been turned out of this house, and I'm not to go to see him at his own."

"I certainly think that you ought to discontinue your visits to Dr Thorne altogether."

"Nonsense, my dear; absolute nonsense."

"Nonsense! Mr Gresham; it is no nonsense. As you speak in that way, I must let you know plainly
what I feel. I am endeavouring to do my duty by my son. As you justly observe, such a marriage
as this would be utter ruin to him. When I found that the young people were actually talking
of being in love with each other, making vows and all that sort of thing, I did think it time
to interfere. I did not, however, turn them out of Greshamsbury as you accuse me of doing.
In the kindest possible manner--"

"Well--well--well; I know all that. There, they are gone, and that's enough. I don't complain;
surely that ought to be enough."

"Enough! Mr Gresham. No; it is not enough. I find that, in spite of what has occurred, the
closest intimacy exists between the two families; that poor Beatrice, who is so very young,
and not so prudent as she should be, is made to act as a go-between; and when I speak to the
doctor, hoping that he will assist me in preventing this, he not only tells me that he means
to encourage Mary in her plans, but positively insults me to my face, laughs at me for being
an earl's daughter, and tells me--yes, he absolutely told me--to get out of his house."

Let it be told with some shame as to the squire's conduct, that his first feeling on hearing
this was one of envy--of envy and regret that he could not make the same uncivil request. Not
that he wished to turn his wife absolutely out of his house; but he would have been very glad
to have had the power of dismissing her summarily from his own room. This, however, was at
present impossible; so he was obliged to make some mild reply.

"You must have mistaken him, my dear. He could not have intended to say that."

"Oh! of course, Mr Gresham. It is all a mistake, of course. It will be a mistake, only a mistake
when you find your son married to Mary Thorne."

"Well, my dear, I cannot undertake to quarrel with Dr Thorne." This was true; for the squire
could hardly have quarrelled with Dr Thorne, even had he wished it.

"Then I think it right to tell you that I shall. And, Mr Gresham, I did not expect much co-operation
from you; but I did think that you would have shown some little anger when you heard that I
had been so ill-treated. I shall, however, know how to take care of myself; and I shall continue
to do the best I can to protect Frank from these wicked intrigues."

So saying, her ladyship arose and left the room, having succeeded in destroying the comfort
of all our Greshamsbury friends. It was very well for the squire to declare that he would not
quarrel with Dr Thorne, and of course he did not do so. But he, himself, had no wish whatever
that his son should marry Mary Thorne; and as a falling drop will hollow a stone, so did the
continual harping of his wife on the subject give rise to some amount of suspicion in his own
mind. Then as to Beatrice, though she had made no promise that she would not again visit Mary,
she was by no means prepared to set her mother's authority altogether at defiance; and she
also was sufficiently uncomfortable.

Dr Thorne said nothing of the matter to his niece, and she, therefore, would have been absolutely
bewildered by Beatrice's absence, had she not received some tidings of what had taken place
at Greshamsbury through Patience Oriel. Beatrice and Patience discussed the matter fully, and
it was agreed between them that it would be better that Mary should know what sterner orders
respecting her had gone forth from the tyrant at Greshamsbury, and that she might understand
that Beatrice's absence was compulsory. Patience was thus placed in this position, that on
one day she walked and talked with Beatrice, and on the next with Mary; and so matters went
on for a while at Greshamsbury--not very pleasantly.

Very unpleasantly and very uncomfortably did the months of May and June pass away. Beatrice
and Mary occasionally met, drinking tea together at the parsonage, or in some other of the
ordinary meetings of country society; but there were no more confidentially distressing confidential
discourses, no more whispering of Frank's name, no more sweet allusions to the inexpediency
of a passion, which, according to Beatrice's views, would have been so delightful had it been
expedient.

The squire and the doctor also met constantly; there were unfortunately many subjects on which
they were obliged to meet. Louis Philippe--or Sir Louis as we must call him--though he had
no power over his own property, was wide awake to all the coming privileges of ownership, and
he would constantly point out to his guardian the manner in which, according to his ideas,
the most should be made of it. The young baronet's ideas of good taste were not of the most
refined description, and he did not hesitate to tell Dr Thorne that his, the doctor's, friendship
with Mr Gresham must be no bar to his, the baronet's, interest. Sir Louis also had his own
lawyer, who gave Dr Thorne to understand that, according to his ideas, the sum due on Mr Gresham's
property was too large to be left on its present footing; the title-deeds, he said, should
be surrendered or the mortgage foreclosed. All this added to the sadness which now seemed to
envelop the village of Greshamsbury.

Early in July, Frank was to come home. The manner in which the comings and goings of "poor
Frank" were allowed to disturb the arrangements of all the ladies, and some of the gentlemen,
of Greshamsbury was most abominable. And yet it can hardly be said to have been his fault.
He would have been only too well pleased had things been allowed to go on after their old fashion.
Things were not allowed so to go on. At Christmas Miss Oriel had submitted to be exiled, in
order that she might carry Mary away from the presence of the young Bashaw, an arrangement
by which all the winter festivities of the poor doctor had been thoroughly sacrificed; and
now it began to be said that some similar plan for the summer must be suggested.

It must not be supposed that any direction to this effect was conveyed either to Mary or to
the doctor. The suggestion came from them, and was mentioned only to Patience. But Patience,
as a matter of course, told Beatrice, and Beatrice told her mother, somewhat triumphantly,
hoping thereby to convince the she-dragon of Mary's innocence. Alas! she-dragons are not easily
convinced of the innocence of any one. Lady Arabella quite coincided the propriety of Mary's
being sent off,--whither she never inquired,--in order that the coast might be clear for "poor
Frank;" but she did not a whit the more abstain from talking of the wicked intrigues of those
Thornes. As it turned out, Mary's absence caused her to talk all the more.

The Boxall Hill property, including the house and furniture, had been left to the contractor's
son; it being understood that the property would not be at present in his own hands, but that
he might inhabit the house if he chose to do so. It would thus be necessary for Lady Scatcherd
to find a home for herself, unless she could remain at Boxall Hill by her son's permission.
In this position of affairs the doctor had been obliged to make a bargain between them. Sir
Louis did wish to have the comfort, or perhaps the honour, of a country house; but he did not
wish to have the expense of keeping it up. He was also willing to let his mother live at the
house; but not without a consideration. After a prolonged degree of haggling, terms were agreed
upon; and a few weeks after her husband's death, Lady Scatcherd found herself alone at Boxall
Hill--alone as regards society in the ordinary sense, but not quite alone as concerned her
ladyship, for the faithful Hannah was still with her.

The doctor was of course often at Boxall Hill, and never left it without an urgent request
from Lady Scatcherd that he would bring his niece over to see her. Now Lady Scatcherd was no
fit companion for Mary Thorne, and though Mary had often asked to be taken to Boxall Hill,
certain considerations had hitherto induced the doctor to refuse the request; but there was
that about Lady Scatcherd,--a kind of homely honesty of purpose, an absence of all conceit
as to her own position, and a strength of womanly confidence in the doctor as her friend, which
by degrees won upon his heart. When, therefore, both he and Mary felt that it would be better
for her again to absent herself for a while from Greshamsbury, it was, after much deliberation,
agreed that she should go on a visit to Boxall Hill.

To Boxall Hill, accordingly, she went, and was received almost as a princess. Mary had all
her life been accustomed to women of rank, and had never habituated herself to feel much trepidation
in the presence of titled grandees; but she had prepared herself to be more than ordinarily
submissive to Lady Scatcherd. Her hostess was a widow, was not a woman of high birth, was a
woman of whom her uncle spoke well; and, for all these reasons, Mary was determined to respect
her, and pay to her every consideration. But when she settled down in the house she found it
almost impossible to do so. Lady Scatcherd treated her as a farmer's wife might have treated
some convalescent young lady who had been sent to her charge for a few weeks, in order that
she might benefit by the country air. Her ladyship could hardly bring herself to sit still
and eat her dinner tranquilly in her guest's presence. And then nothing was good enough for
Mary. Lady Scatcherd besought her, almost with tears, to say what she liked best to eat and
drink; and was in despair when Mary declared she didn't care, that she liked anything, and
that she was in nowise particular in such matters.

"A roast fowl, Miss Thorne?"

"Very nice, Lady Scatcherd."

"And bread sauce?"

"Bread sauce--yes; oh, yes--I like bread sauce,"--and poor Mary tried hard to show a little
interest.

"And just a few sausages. We make them all in the house, Miss Thorne; we know what they are.
And mashed potatoes--do you like them best mashed or baked?"

Mary finding herself obliged to vote, voted for mashed potatoes.

"Very well. But, Miss Thorne, if you like boiled fowl better, with a little bit of ham, you
know, I do hope you'll say so. And there's lamb in the house, quite beautiful; now do 'ee say
something; do 'ee, Miss Thorne."

So invoked, Mary felt herself obliged to say something, and declared for the roast fowl and
sausages; but she found it very difficult to pay much outward respect to a person who would
pay so much outward respect to her. A day or two after her arrival it was decided that she
should ride about the place on a donkey; she was accustomed to riding, the doctor having generally
taken care that one of his own horses should, when required, consent to carry a lady; but there
was no steed at Boxall Hill that she could mount; and when Lady Scatcherd had offered to get
a pony for her, she had willingly compromised matters by expressing the delight she would have
in making a campaign on a donkey. Upon this, Lady Scatcherd had herself set off in quest of
the desired animal, much to Mary's horror; and did not return till the necessary purchase had
been effected. Then she came back with the donkey close at her heels, almost holding its collar,
and stood there at the hall-door till Mary came to approve.

"I hope she'll do. I don't think she'll kick," said Lady Scatcherd, patting the head of her
purchase quite triumphantly.

"Oh, you are so kind, Lady Scatcherd. I'm sure she'll do quite nicely; she seems very quiet,"
said Mary.

"Please, my lady, it's a he," said the boy who held the halter.

"Oh! a he, is it?" said her ladyship; "but the he-donkeys are quite as quiet as the shes, ain't
they?"

"Oh, yes, my lady; a deal quieter, all the world over, and twice as useful."

"I'm so glad of that, Miss Thorne," said Lady Scatcherd, her eyes bright with joy.

And so Mary was established with her donkey, who did all that could be expected from an animal
in his position.

"But, dear Lady Scatcherd," said Mary, as they sat together at the open drawing-room window
the same evening, "you must not go on calling me Miss Thorne; my name is Mary, you know. Won't
you call me Mary?" and she came and knelt at Lady Scatcherd's feet, and took hold of her, looking
up into her face.

Lady Scatcherd's cheeks became rather red, as though she was somewhat ashamed of her position.

"You are so very kind to me," continued Mary, "and it seems so cold to hear you call me Miss
Thorne."

"Well, Miss Thorne, I'm sure I'd call you anything to please you. Only I didn't know whether
you'd like it from me. Else I do think Mary is the prettiest name in all the language."

"I should like it very much."

"My dear Roger always loved that name better than any other; ten times better. I used to wish
sometimes that I'd been called Mary."

"Did he! Why?"

"He once had a sister called Mary; such a beautiful creature! I declare I sometimes think you
are like her."

"Oh, dear! then she must have been beautiful indeed!" said Mary, laughing.

"She was very beautiful. I just remember her--oh, so beautiful! she was quite a poor girl,
you know; and so was I then. Isn't it odd that I should have to be called 'my lady' now? Do
you know Miss Thorne--"

"Mary! Mary!" said her guest.

"Ah, yes; but somehow, I hardly like to make so free; but, as I was saying, I do so dislike
being called 'my lady:' I always think the people are laughing at me; and so they are."

"Oh, nonsense."

"Yes, they are though: poor dear Roger, he used to call me 'my lady' just to make fun of me;
I didn't mind it so much from him. But, Miss Thorne--"

"Mary, Mary, Mary."

"Ah, well! I shall do it in time. But, Miss--Mary, ha! ha! ha! never mind, let me alone. But
what I want to say is this: do you think I could drop it? Hannah says, that if I go the right
way about it she is sure I can."

"Oh! but, Lady Scatcherd, you shouldn't think of such a thing."

"Shouldn't I now?"

"Oh, no; for your husband's sake you should be proud of it. He gained great honour, you know."

"Ah, well," said she, sighing after a short pause; "if you think it will do him any good, of
course I'll put up with it. And then I know Louis would be mad if I talked of such a thing.
But, Miss Thorne, dear, a woman like me don't like to have to be made a fool of all the days
of her life if she can help it."

"But, Lady Scatcherd," said Mary, when this question of the title had been duly settled, and
her ladyship made to understand that she must bear the burden for the rest of her life, "but,
Lady Scatcherd, you were speaking of Sir Roger's sister; what became of her?"

"Oh, she did very well at last, as Sir Roger did himself; but in early life she was very unfortunate--just
at the time of my marriage with dear Roger--," and then, just as she was about to commence
so much as she knew of the history of Mary Scatcherd, she remembered that the author of her
sister-in-law's misery had been a Thorne, a brother of the doctor; and, therefore, as she presumed,
a relative of her guest; and suddenly she became mute.

"Well," said Mary; "just as you were married, Lady Scatcherd?"

Poor Lady Scatcherd had very little worldly knowledge, and did not in the least know how to
turn the conversation or escape from the trouble into which she had fallen. All manner of reflections
began to crowd upon her. In her early days she had known very little of the Thornes, nor had
she thought much of them since, except as regarded her friend the doctor; but at this moment
she began for the first time to remember that she had never heard more than two brothers in
the family. Who then could have been Mary's father? She felt at once that it would be improper
for to say anything as to Henry Thorne's terrible faults and sudden fate;--improper also, to
say more about Mary Scatcherd; but she was quite unable to drop the matter otherwise than abruptly,
and with a start.

"She was very unfortunate, you say, Lady Scatcherd?"

"Yes, Miss Thorne; Mary, I mean--never mind me--I shall do it in time. Yes, she was; but now
I think of it, I had better say nothing more about it. There are reasons, and I ought not to
have spoken of it. You won't be provoked with me, will you?"

Mary assured her that she would not be provoked, and of course asked no more questions about
Mary Scatcherd; nor did she think much more about it. It was not so however with her ladyship,
who could not keep herself from reflecting that the old clergyman in the Close at Barchester
certainly had but two sons, one of whom was now the doctor at Greshamsbury, and the other of
whom had perished so wretchedly at the gate of that farmyard. Who then was the father of Mary
Thorne?

The days passed very quietly at Boxall Hill. Every morning Mary went out on her donkey, who
justified by his demeanour all that had been said in his praise; then she would read or draw,
then walk with Lady Scatcherd, then dine, then walk again; and so the days passed quietly away.
Once or twice a week the doctor would come over and drink his tea there, riding home in the
cool of the evening. Mary also received one visit from her friend Patience.

So the days passed quietly away till the tranquillity of the house was suddenly broken by tidings
from London. Lady Scatcherd received a letter from her son, contained in three lines, in which
he intimated that on the following day he meant to honour her with a visit. He had intended,
he said, to have gone to Brighton with some friends; but as he felt himself a little out of
sorts, he would postpone his marine trip and do his mother the grace of spending a few days
with her.

This news was not very pleasant to Mary, by whom it had been understood, as it had also by
her uncle, that Lady Scatcherd would have had the house to herself; but as there were no means
of preventing the evil, Mary could only inform the doctor, and prepare herself to meet Sir
Louis Scatcherd.

CHAPTER XXVIII

The Doctor Hears Something to His Advantage

Sir Louis Scatcherd had told his mother that he was rather out of sorts, and when he reached
Boxall Hill it certainly did not appear that he had given any exaggerated statement of his
own maladies. He certainly was a good deal out of sorts. He had had more than one attack of
delirium tremens since his father's death, and had almost been at death's door.

Nothing had been said about this by Dr Thorne at Boxall Hill; but he was by no means ignorant
of his ward's state. Twice he had gone up to London to visit him; twice he had begged him to
go down into the country and place himself under his mother's care. On the last occasion, the
doctor had threatened him with all manner of pains and penalties: with pains, as to his speedy
departure from this world and all its joys; and with penalties, in the shape of poverty if
that departure should by any chance be retarded. But these threats had at the moment been in
vain, and the doctor had compromised matters by inducing Sir Louis to promise that he would
go to Brighton. The baronet, however, who was at length frightened by some renewed attack,
gave up his Brighton scheme, and, without any notice to the doctor, hurried down to Boxall Hill.

Mary did not see him on the first day of his coming, but the doctor did. He received such intimation
of the visit as enabled him to be at the house soon after the young man's arrival; and, knowing
that his assistance might be necessary, he rode over to Boxall Hill. It was a dreadful task
to him, this of making the same fruitless endeavour for the son that he had made for the father,
and in the same house. But he was bound by every consideration to perform the task. He had
promised the father that he would do for the son all that was in his power; and he had, moreover,
the consciousness, that should Sir Louis succeed in destroying himself, the next heir to all
the property was his own niece, Mary Thorne.

He found Sir Louis in a low, wretched, miserable state. Though he was a drunkard as his father
was, he was not at all such a drunkard as was his father. The physical capacities of the men
were very different. The daily amount of alcohol which the father had consumed would have burnt
up the son in a week; whereas, though the son was continually tipsy, what he swallowed would
hardly have had an injurious effect upon the father.

"You are all wrong, quite wrong," said Sir Louis, petulantly; "it isn't that at all. I have
taken nothing this week past--literally nothing. I think it's the liver."

Dr Thorne wanted no one to tell him what was the matter with his ward. It was his liver; his
liver, and his head, and his stomach, and his heart. Every organ in his body had been destroyed,
or was in the course of destruction. His father had killed himself with brandy; the son, more
elevated in his tastes, was doing the same thing with curaçoa, maraschino, and cherry-bounce.

"Sir Louis," said the doctor--he was obliged to be much more punctilious with him than he had
been with the contractor--"the matter is in your own hands entirely: if you cannot keep your
lips from that accursed poison, you have nothing in this world to look forward to; nothing,
nothing!"

Mary proposed to return with her uncle to Greshamsbury, and he was at first well inclined that
she should do so. But this idea was overruled, partly in compliance with Lady Scatcherd's entreaties,
and partly because it would have seemed as though they had both thought the presence of its
owner had made the house an unfit habitation for decent people. The doctor therefore returned,
leaving Mary there; and Lady Scatcherd busied herself between her two guests.

On the next day Sir Louis was able to come down to a late dinner, and Mary was introduced to
him. He had dressed himself in his best array; and as he had--at any rate for the present moment--been
frightened out of his libations, he was prepared to make himself as agreeable as possible.
His mother waited on him almost as a slave might have done; but she seemed to do so with the
fear of a slave rather than the love of a mother. She was fidgety in her attentions, and worried
him by endeavouring to make her evening sitting-room agreeable.

But Sir Louis, though he was not very sweetly behaved under these manipulations from his mother's
hands, was quite complaisant to Miss Thorne; nay, after the expiration of a week he was almost
more than complaisant. He piqued himself on his gallantry, and now found that, in the otherwise
dull seclusion of Boxall Hill, he had a good opportunity of exercising it. To do him justice
it must be admitted that he would not have been incapable of a decent career had he stumbled
upon some girl who could have loved him before he stumbled upon his maraschino bottle. Such
might have been the case with many a lost rake. The things that are bad are accepted because
the things that are good do not come easily in his way. How many a miserable father reviles
with bitterness of spirit the low tastes of his son, who has done nothing to provide his child
with higher pleasures!

Sir Louis--partly in the hopes of Mary's smiles, and partly frightened by the doctor's threats--did,
for a while, keep himself within decent bounds. He did not usually appear before Mary's eyes
till three or four in the afternoon; but when he did come forth, he came forth sober and resolute
to please. His mother was delighted, and was not slow to sing his praises; and even the doctor,
who now visited Boxall Hill more frequently than ever, began to have some hopes.

One constant subject, I must not say of conversation, on the part of Lady Scatcherd, but rather
of declamation, had hitherto been the beauty and manly attributes of Frank Gresham. She had
hardly ceased to talk to Mary of the infinite good qualities of the young squire, and especially
of his prowess in the matter of Mr Moffat. Mary had listened to all this eloquence, not perhaps
with inattention, but without much reply. She had not been exactly sorry to hear Frank talked
about; indeed, had she been so minded, she could herself have said something on the same subject;
but she did not wish to take Lady Scatcherd altogether into her confidence, and she had been
unable to say much about Frank Gresham without doing so. Lady Scatcherd had, therefore, gradually
conceived the idea that her darling was not a favourite with her guest.

Now, therefore, she changed the subject; and, as her own son was behaving with such unexampled
propriety, she dropped Frank and confined her eulogies to Louis. He had been a little wild,
she admitted; young men so often were so; but she hoped that it was now over.

"He does still take a little drop of those French drinks in the morning," said Lady Scatcherd,
in her confidence; for she was too honest to be false, even in her own cause. "He does do that,
I know: but that's nothing, my dear, to swilling all day; and everything can't be done at once,
can it, Miss Thorne?"

On this subject Mary found her tongue loosened. She could not talk about Frank Gresham, but
she could speak with hope to the mother of her only son. She could say that Sir Louis was still
very young; that there was reason to trust that he might now reform; that his present conduct
was apparently good; and that he appeared capable of better things. So much she did say; and
the mother took her sympathy for more than it was worth.

On this matter, and on this matter perhaps alone, Sir Louis and Lady Scatcherd were in accord.
There was much to recommend Mary to the baronet; not only did he see her to be beautiful, and
perceive her to be attractive and ladylike; but she was also the niece of the man who, for
the present, held the purse-strings of his wealth. Mary, it is true, had no fortune. But Sir
Louis knew that she was acknowledged to be a lady; and he was ambitious that his "lady" should
be a lady. There was also much to recommend Mary to the mother, to any mother; and thus it
came to pass, that Miss Thorne had no obstacle between her and the dignity of being Lady Scatcherd
the second;--no obstacle whatever, if only she could bring herself to wish it.

It was some time--two or three weeks, perhaps--before Mary's mind was first opened to this
new brilliancy in her prospects. Sir Louis at first was rather afraid of her, and did not declare
his admiration in any very determined terms. He certainly paid her many compliments which,
from any one else, she would have regarded as abominable. But she did not expect great things
from the baronet's taste: she concluded that he was only doing what he thought a gentleman
should do; and she was willing to forgive much for Lady Scatcherd's sake.

His first attempts were, perhaps, more ludicrous than passionate. He was still too much an
invalid to take walks, and Mary was therefore saved from his company in her rambles; but he
had a horse of his own at Boxall Hill, and had been advised to ride by the doctor. Mary also
rode--on a donkey only, it is true--but Sir Louis found himself bound in gallantry to accompany
her. Mary's steed had answered every expectation, and proved himself very quiet; so quiet,
that without the admonition of a cudgel behind him, he could hardly be persuaded into the demurest
trot. Now, as Sir Louis's horse was of a very different mettle, he found it rather difficult
not to step faster than his inamorata; and, let it him struggle as he would, was generally
so far ahead as to be debarred the delights of conversation.

When for the second time he proposed to accompany her, Mary did what she could to hinder it.
She saw that he had been rather ashamed of the manner in which his companion was mounted, and
she herself would have enjoyed her ride much more without him. He was an invalid, however;
it was necessary to make much of him, and Mary did not absolutely refuse his offer.

"Lady Scatcherd," said he, as they were standing at the door previous to mounting--he always
called his mother Lady Scatcherd--"why don't you have a horse for Miss Thorne? This donkey
is--is--really is, so very--very--can't go at all, you know?"

Lady Scatcherd began to declare that she would willingly have got a pony if Mary would have
let her do so.

"Oh, no, Lady Scatcherd; not on any account. I do like the donkey so much--I do indeed."

"But he won't go," said Sir Louis. "And for a person who rides like you, Miss Thorne--such
a horsewoman you know--why, you know, Lady Scatcherd, it's positively ridiculous; d---- absurd,
you know."

And then, with an angry look at his mother, he mounted his horse, and was soon leading the
way down the avenue.

"Miss Thorne," said he, pulling himself up at the gate, "if I had known that I was to be so
extremely happy as to have found you here, I would have brought you down the most beautiful
creature, an Arab. She belongs to my friend Jenkins; but I wouldn't have stood at any price
in getting her for you. By Jove! if you were on that mare, I'd back you, for style and appearance,
against anything in Hyde Park."

The offer of this sporting wager, which naturally would have been very gratifying to Mary,
was lost upon her, for Sir Louis had again unwittingly got on in advance, but he stopped himself
in time to hear Mary again declare her passion was a donkey.

"If you could only see Jenkins's little mare, Miss Thorne! Only say one word, and she shall
be down here before the week's end. Price shall be no obstacle--none whatever. By Jove, what
a pair you would be!"

This generous offer was repeated four or five times; but on each occasion Mary only half heard
what was said, and on each occasion the baronet was far too much in advance to hear Mary's
reply. At last he recollected that he wanted to call on one of the tenants, and begged his
companion to allow him to ride on.

"If you at all dislike being left alone, you know--"

"Oh dear no, not at all, Sir Louis. I am quite used to it."

"Because I don't care about it, you know; only I can't make this horse walk the same pace as
that brute."

"You mustn't abuse my pet, Sir Louis."

"It's a d---- shame on my mother's part;" said Sir Louis, who, even when in his best behaviour,
could not quite give up his ordinary mode of conversation. "When she was fortunate enough to
get such a girl as you to come and stay with her, she ought to have had something proper for
her to ride upon; but I'll look to it as soon as I am a little stronger, you see if I don't;"
and, so saying, Sir Louis trotted off, leaving Mary in peace with her donkey.

Sir Louis had now been living cleanly and forswearing sack for what was to him a very long
period, and his health felt the good effects of it. No one rejoiced at this more cordially
than did the doctor. To rejoice at it was with him a point of conscience. He could not help
telling himself now and again that, circumstanced as he was, he was most specially bound to
take joy in any sign of reformation which the baronet might show. Not to do so would be almost
tantamount to wishing that he might die in order that Mary might inherit his wealth; and, therefore,
the doctor did with all his energy devote himself to the difficult task of hoping and striving
that Sir Louis might yet live to enjoy what was his own. But the task was altogether a difficult
one, for as Sir Louis became stronger in health, so also did he become more exorbitant in his
demands on the doctor's patience, and more repugnant to the doctor's tastes.

In his worst fits of disreputable living he was ashamed to apply to his guardian for money;
and in his worst fits of illness he was, through fear, somewhat patient under his doctor's
hands; but just at present he had nothing of which to be ashamed, and was not at all patient.

"Doctor,"--said he, one day, at Boxall Hill--"how about those Greshamsbury title-deeds?"

"Oh, that will all be properly settled between my lawyer and your own."

"Oh--ah--yes; no doubt the lawyers will settle it: settle it with a fine bill of costs, of
course. But, as Finnie says,"--Finnie was Sir Louis's legal adviser--"I have got a tremendously
large interest at stake in this matter; eighty thousand pounds is no joke. It ain't everybody
that can shell out eighty thousand pounds when they're wanted; and I should like to know how
the thing's going on. I've a right to ask, you know; eh, doctor?"

"The title-deeds of a large portion of the Greshamsbury estate will be placed with the mortgage-deeds
before the end of next month."

"Oh, that's all right. I choose to know about these things; for though my father did make such
a con-found-ed will, that's no reason I shouldn't know how things are going."

"You shall know everything that I know, Sir Louis."

"And now, doctor, what are we to do about money?"

"About money?"

"Yes; money, rhino, ready! 'put money in your purse and cut a dash;' eh, doctor? Not that I
want to cut a dash. No, I'm going on the quiet line altogether now: I've done with all that
sort of thing."

"I'm heartily glad of it; heartily," said the doctor.

"Yes, I'm not going to make way for my far-away cousin yet; not if I know it, at least. I shall
soon be all right now, doctor; shan't I?"

"'All right' is a long word, Sir Louis. But I do hope you will be all right in time, if you
will live with decent prudence. You shouldn't take that filth in the morning though."

"Filth in the morning! That's my mother, I suppose! That's her ladyship! She's been talking,
has she? Don't you believe her, doctor. There's not a young man in Barsetshire is going more
regular, all right within the posts, than I am."

The doctor was obliged to acknowledge that there did seem to be some improvement.

"And now, doctor, how about money? Eh?"

Doctor Thorne, like other guardians similarly circumstanced, began to explain that Sir Louis
had already had a good deal of money, and had begun also to promise that more should be forthcoming
in the event of good behaviour, when he was somewhat suddenly interrupted by Sir Louis.

"Well, now; I'll tell you what, doctor; I've got a bit of news for you; something that I think
will astonish you."

The doctor opened his eyes, and tried to look as though ready to be surprised.

"Something that will really make you look about; and something, too, that will be very much
to the hearer's advantage,--as the newspaper advertisements say."

"Something to my advantage?" said the doctor.

"Well, I hope you'll think so. Doctor, what would you think now of my getting married?"

"I should be delighted to hear of it--more delighted than I can express; that is, of course,
if you were to marry well. It was your father's most eager wish that you should marry early."

"That's partly my reason," said the young hypocrite. "But then, if I marry I must have an income
fit to live on; eh, doctor?"

The doctor had some fear that his interesting protégée was desirous of a wife for the sake
of the income, instead of desiring the income for the sake of the wife. But let the cause be
what it would, marriage would probably be good for him; and he had no hesitation, therefore,
in telling him, that if he married well, he should be put in possession of sufficient income
to maintain the new Lady Scatcherd in a manner becoming her dignity.

"As to marrying well," said Sir Louis, "you, I take it, will the be the last man, doctor, to
quarrel with my choice."

"Shall I?" said the doctor, smiling.

"Well, you won't disapprove, I guess, as the Yankee says. What would you think of Miss Mary
Thorne?"

It must be said in Sir Louis's favour that he had probably no idea whatever of the estimation
in which such young ladies as Mary Thorne are held by those who are nearest and dearest to
them. He had no sort of conception that she was regarded by her uncle as an inestimable treasure,
almost too precious to be rendered up to the arms of any man; and infinitely beyond any price
in silver and gold, baronets' incomes of eight or ten thousand a year, and such coins usually
current in the world's markets. He was a rich man and a baronet, and Mary was an unmarried
girl without a portion. In Sir Louis's estimation he was offering everything, and asking for
nothing. He certainly had some idea that girls were apt to be coy, and required a little wooing
in the shape of presents, civil speeches--perhaps kisses also. The civil speeches he had, he
thought, done, and imagined that they had been well received. The other things were to follow;
an Arab pony, for instance,--and the kisses probably with it; and then all these difficulties
would be smoothed.

But he did not for a moment conceive that there would be any difficulty with the uncle. How
should there be? Was he not a baronet with ten thousand a year coming to him? Had he not everything
which fathers want for portionless daughters, and uncles for dependant nieces? Might he not
well inform the doctor that he had something to tell him for his advantage?

And yet, to tell the truth, the doctor did not seem to be overjoyed when the announcement was
first made to him. He was by no means overjoyed. On the contrary, even Sir Louis could perceive
his guardian's surprise was altogether unmixed with delight.

What a question was this that was asked him! What would he think of a marriage between Mary
Thorne--his Mary and Sir Louis Scatcherd? Between the alpha of the whole alphabet, and him
whom he could not but regard as the omega! Think of it! Why he would think of it as though
a lamb and a wolf were to stand at the altar together. Had Sir Louis been a Hottentot, or an
Esquimaux, the proposal could not have astonished him more. The two persons were so totally
of a different class, that the idea of the one falling in love with the other had never occurred
to him. "What would you think of Miss Mary Thorne?" Sir Louis had asked; and the doctor, instead
of answering him with ready and pleased alacrity, stood silent, thunderstruck with amazement.

"Well, wouldn't she be a good wife?" said Sir Louis, rather in a tone of disgust at the evident
disapproval shown at his choice. "I thought you'd have been so delighted."

"Mary Thorne!" ejaculated the doctor at last. "Have you spoken to my niece about this, Sir Louis?"

"Well, I have and yet I haven't; I haven't, and yet in a manner I have."

"I don't understand you," said the doctor.

"Why, you see, I haven't exactly popped to her yet; but I have been doing the civil; and if
she's up to snuff, as I take her to be, she knows very well what I'm after by this time."

Up to snuff! Mary Thorne, his Mary Thorne, up to snuff! To snuff too of such a very disagreeable
description!

"I think, Sir Louis, that you are in mistake about this. I think you will find that Mary will
not be disposed to avail herself of the great advantages--for great they undoubtedly are--which
you are able to offer to your intended wife. If you will take my advice, you will give up thinking
of Mary. She would not suit you."

"Not suit me! Oh, but I think she just would. She's got no money, you mean?"

"No, I did not mean that. It will not signify to you whether your wife has money or not. You
need not look for money. But you should think of some one more nearly of your own temperament.
I am quite sure that my niece would refuse you."

These last words the doctor uttered with much emphasis. His intention was to make the baronet
understand that the matter was quite hopeless, and to induce him if possible to drop it on
the spot. But he did not know Sir Louis; he ranked him too low in the scale of human beings,
and gave him no credit for any strength of character. Sir Louis in his way did love Mary Thorne;
and could not bring himself to believe that Mary did not, or at any rate, would not soon return
his passion. He was, moreover, sufficiently obstinate, firm we ought perhaps to say,--for his
pursuit in this case was certainly not an evil one,--and he at once made up his mind to succeed
in spite of the uncle.

"If she consents, however, you will do so too?" asked he.

"It is impossible she should consent," said the doctor.

"Impossible! I don't see anything at all impossible. But if she does?"

"But she won't."

"Very well,--that's to be seen. But just tell me this, if she does, will you consent?"

"The stars would fall first. It's all nonsense. Give it up, my dear friend; believe me you
are only preparing unhappiness for yourself;" and the doctor put his hand kindly on the young
man's arm. "She will not, cannot accept such an offer."

"Will not! cannot!" said the baronet, thinking over all the reasons which in his estimation
could possibly be inducing the doctor to be so hostile to his views, and shaking the hand off
his arm. "Will not! cannot! But come, doctor, answer my question fairly. If she'll have me
for better or worse, you won't say aught against it; will you?"

"But she won't have you; why should you give her and yourself the pain of a refusal?"

"Oh, as for that, I must stand my chances like another. And as for her, why d----, doctor,
you wouldn't have me believe that any young lady thinks it so very dreadful to have a baronet
with ten thousand pounds a year at her feet, specially when that same baronet ain't very old,
nor yet particularly ugly. I ain't so green as that, doctor."

"I suppose she must go through it, then," said the doctor, musing.

"But, Dr Thorne, I did look for a kinder answer from you, considering all that you so often
say about your great friendship with my father. I did think you'd at any rate answer me when
I asked you a question."

But the doctor did not want to answer that special question. Could it be possible that Mary
should wish to marry this odious man, could such a state of things be imagined to be the case,
he would not refuse his consent, infinitely as he would be disgusted by her choice. But he
would not give Sir Louis any excuse for telling Mary that her uncle approved of so odious a match.

"I cannot say that in any case I should approve of such a marriage, Sir Louis. I cannot bring
myself to say so; for I know it would make you both miserable. But on that matter my niece
will choose wholly for herself."

"And about the money, doctor?"

"If you marry a decent woman you shall not want the means of supporting her decently," and
so saying the doctor walked away, leaving Sir Louis to his meditations.

CHAPTER XXIX

The Donkey Ride

Sir Louis, when left to himself, was slightly dismayed and somewhat discouraged; but he was
not induced to give up his object. The first effort of his mind was made in conjecturing what
private motive Dr Thorne could possibly have in wishing to debar his niece from marrying a
rich young baronet. That the objection was personal to himself, Sir Louis did not for a moment
imagine. Could it be that the doctor did not wish that his niece should be richer, and grander,
and altogether bigger than himself? Or was it possible that his guardian was anxious to prevent
him from marrying from some view of the reversion of the large fortune? That there was some
such reason, Sir Louis was well sure; but let it be what it might, he would get the better
of the doctor. "He knew," so he said to himself, "what stuff girls were made of. Baronets did
not grow like blackberries." And so, assuring himself with such philosophy, he determined to
make his offer.

The time he selected for doing this was the hour before dinner; but on the day on which his
conversation with the doctor had taken place, he was deterred by the presence of a strange
visitor. To account for this strange visit it will be necessary that we should return to Greshamsbury
for a few minutes.

Frank, when he returned home for his summer vacation, found that Mary had again flown; and
the very fact of her absence added fuel to the fire of his love, more perhaps then even her
presence might have done. For the flight of the quarry ever adds eagerness to the pursuit of
the huntsman. Lady Arabella, moreover, had a bitter enemy; a foe, utterly opposed to her side
in the contest, where she had once fondly looked for her staunchest ally. Frank was now in
the habit of corresponding with Miss Dunstable, and received from her most energetic admonitions
to be true to the love which he had sworn. True to it he resolved to be; and therefore, when
he found that Mary was flown, he resolved to fly after her.

He did not, however, do this till he had been in a measure provoked to it by it by the sharp-tongued
cautions and blunted irony of his mother. It was not enough for her that she had banished Mary
out of the parish, and made Dr Thorne's life miserable; not enough that she harassed her husband
with harangues on the constant subject of Frank's marrying money, and dismayed Beatrice with
invectives against the iniquity of her friend. The snake was so but scotched; to kill it outright
she must induce Frank utterly to renounce Miss Thorne.

This task she essayed, but not exactly with success. "Well, mother," said Frank, at last turning
very red, partly with shame, and partly with indignation, as he made the frank avowal, "since
you press me about it, I tell you fairly that my mind is made up to marry Mary sooner or later,
if--"

"Oh, Frank! good heavens! you wicked boy; you are saying this purposely to drive me distracted."

"If," continued Frank, not attending to his mother's interjections, "if she will consent."

"Consent!" said Lady Arabella. "Oh, heavens!" and falling into the corner of the sofa, she
buried her face in her handkerchief.

"Yes, mother, if she will consent. And now that I have told you so much, it is only just that
I should tell you this also; that as far as I can see at present I have no reason to hope that
she will do so."

"Oh, Frank, the girl is doing all she can to catch you," said Lady Arabella,--not prudently.

"No, mother; there you wrong her altogether; wrong her most cruelly."

"You ungracious, wicked boy! you call me cruel!"

"I don't call you cruel; but you wrong her cruelly, most cruelly. When I have spoken to her
about this--for I have spoken to her--she has behaved exactly as you would have wanted her
to do; but not at all as I wished her. She has given me no encouragement. You have turned her
out among you"--Frank was beginning to be very bitter now--"but she has done nothing to deserve
it. If there has been any fault it has been mine. But it is well that we should all understand
each other. My intention is to marry Mary if I can." And, so speaking, certainly without due
filial respect, he turned towards the door.

"Frank," said his mother, raising herself up with energy to make one last appeal. "Frank, do
you wish to see me die of a broken heart?"

"You know, mother, I would wish to make you happy, if I could."

"If you wish to see me ever happy again, if you do not wish to see me sink broken-hearted to
my grave, you must give up this mad idea, Frank,"--and now all Lady Arabella's energy came
out. "Frank there is but one course left open to you. You MUST marry money." And then Lady
Arabella stood up before her son as Lady Macbeth might have stood, had Lady Macbeth lived to
have a son of Frank's years.

"Miss Dunstable, I suppose," said Frank, scornfully. "No, mother; I made an ass, and worse
than an ass of myself once in that way, and I won't do it again. I hate money."

"Oh, Frank!"

"I hate money."

"But, Frank, the estate?"

"I hate the estate--at least I shall hate it if I am expected to buy it at such a price as
that. The estate is my father's."

"Oh, no, Frank; it is not."

"It is in the sense I mean. He may do with it as he pleases; he will never have a word of complaint
from me. I am ready to go into a profession to-morrow. I'll be a lawyer, or a doctor, or an
engineer; I don't care what." Frank, in his enthusiasm, probably overlooked some of the preliminary
difficulties. "Or I'll take a farm under him, and earn my bread that way; but, mother, don't
talk to me any more about marrying money." And, so saying, Frank left the room.

Frank, it will be remembered, was twenty-one when he was first introduced to the reader; he
is now twenty-two. It may be said that there was a great difference between his character then
and now. A year at that period will make a great difference; but the change has been, not in
his character, but in his feelings.

Frank went out from his mother and immediately ordered his black horse to be got ready for
him. He would at once go over to Boxall Hill. He went himself to the stables to give his orders;
and as he returned to get his gloves and whip he met Beatrice in the corridor.

"Beatrice," said he, "step in here," and she followed him into his room. "I'm not going to
bear this any longer; I'm going to Boxall Hill."

"Oh, Frank! how can you be so imprudent?"

"You, at any rate, have some decent feeling for Mary. I believe you have some regard for her;
and therefore I tell you. Will you send her any message?"

"Oh, yes; my best, best love; that is if you will see her; but, Frank, you are very foolish,
very; and she will be infinitely distressed."

"Do not mention this, that is, not at present; not that I mean to make any secret of it. I
shall tell my father everything. I'm off now!" and then, paying no attention to her remonstrance,
he turned down the stairs and was soon on horseback.

He took the road to Boxall Hill, but he did not ride very fast: he did not go jauntily as a
jolly, thriving wooer; but musingly, and often with diffidence, meditating every now and then
whether it would not be better for him to turn back: to turn back--but not from fear of his
mother; not from prudential motives; not because that often-repeated lesson as to marrying
money was beginning to take effect; not from such causes as these; but because he doubted how
he might be received by Mary.

He did, it is true, think something about his worldly prospects. He had talked rather grandiloquently
to his mother as to his hating money, and hating the estate. His mother's never-ceasing worldly
cares on such subjects perhaps demanded that a little grandiloquence should be opposed to them.
But Frank did not hate the estate; nor did he at all hate the position of an English country
gentleman. Miss Dunstable's eloquence, however, rang in his ears. For Miss Dunstable had an
eloquence of her own, even in her letters. "Never let them talk you out of your own true, honest,
hearty feelings," she had said. "Greshamsbury is a very nice place, I am sure; and I hope I
shall see it some day; but all its green knolls are not half so nice, should not be half so
precious, as the pulses of your own heart. That is your own estate, your own, your very own--your
own and another's; whatever may go to the money-lenders, don't send that there. Don't mortgage
that, Mr Gresham."

"No," said Frank, pluckily, as he put his horse into a faster trot, "I won't mortgage that.
They may do what they like with the estate; but my heart's my own," and so speaking to himself,
almost aloud, he turned a corner of the road rapidly and came at once upon the doctor.

"Hallo, doctor! is that you?" said Frank, rather disgusted.

"What! Frank! I hardly expected to meet you here," said Dr Thorne, not much better pleased.

They were now not above a mile from Boxall Hill, and the doctor, therefore, could not but surmise
whither Frank was going. They had repeatedly met since Frank's return from Cambridge, both
in the village and in the doctor's house; but not a word had been said between them about Mary
beyond what the merest courtesy had required. Not that each did not love the other sufficiently
to make a full confidence between them desirable to both; but neither had had the courage to
speak out.

Nor had either of them the courage to do so now. "Yes," said Frank, blushing, "I am going to
Lady Scatcherd's. Shall I find the ladies at home?"

"Yes; Lady Scatcherd is there; but Sir Louis is there also--an invalid: perhaps you would not
wish to meet him."

"Oh! I don't mind," said Frank, trying to laugh; "he won't bite, I suppose?"

The doctor longed in his heart to pray to Frank to return with him; not to go and make further
mischief; not to do that which might cause a more bitter estrangement between himself and the
squire. But he had not the courage to do it. He could not bring himself to accuse Frank of
being in love with his niece. So after a few more senseless words on either side, words which
each knew to be senseless as he uttered them, they both rode on their own ways.

And then the doctor silently, and almost unconsciously, made such a comparison between Louis
Scatcherd and Frank Gresham as Hamlet made between the dead and live king. It was Hyperion
to a satyr. Was it not as impossible that Mary should not love the one, as that she should
love the other? Frank's offer of his affections had at first probably been but a boyish ebullition
of feeling; but if it should now be, that this had grown into a manly and disinterested love,
how could Mary remain unmoved? What could her heart want more, better, more beautiful, more
rich than such a love as his? Was he not personally all that a girl could like? Were not his
disposition, mind, character, acquirements, all such as women most delight to love? Was it
not impossible that Mary should be indifferent to him?

So meditated the doctor as he road along, with only too true a knowledge of human nature. Ah!
it was impossible, it was quite impossible that Mary should be indifferent. She had never been
indifferent since Frank had uttered his first half-joking word of love. Such things are more
important to women than they are to men, to girls than they are to boys. When Frank had first
told her that he loved her; aye, months before that, when he merely looked his love, her heart
had received the whisper, had acknowledged the glance, unconscious as she was herself, and
resolved as she was to rebuke his advances. When, in her hearing, he had said soft nothings
to Patience Oriel, a hated, irrepressible tear had gathered in her eye. When he had pressed
in his warm, loving grasp the hand which she had offered him as a token of mere friendship,
her heart had forgiven him the treachery, nay, almost thanked him for it, before her eyes or
her words had been ready to rebuke him. When the rumour of his liaison with Miss Dunstable
reached her ears, when she heard of Miss Dunstable's fortune, she had wept, wept outright,
in her chamber--wept, as she said to herself, to think that he should be so mercenary; but
she had wept, as she should have said to herself, at finding that he was so faithless. Then,
when she knew at last that this rumour was false, when she found that she was banished from
Greshamsbury for his sake, when she was forced to retreat with her friend Patience, how could
she but love him, in that he was not mercenary? How could she not love him in that was so faithful?

It was impossible that she should not love him. Was he not the brightest and the best of men
that she had ever seen, or was like to see?--that she could possibly ever see, she would have
said to herself, could she have brought herself to own the truth? And then, when she heard
how true he was, how he persisted against father, mother, and sisters, how could it be that
that should not be a merit in her eyes which was so great a fault in theirs? When Beatrice,
with would-be solemn face, but with eyes beaming with feminine affection, would gravely talk
of Frank's tender love as a terrible misfortune, as a misfortune to them all, to Mary herself
as well as others, how could Mary do other than love him? "Beatrice is his sister," she would
say within her own mind, "otherwise she would never talk like this; were she not his sister,
she could not but know the value of such love as this." Ah! yes; Mary did love him; love him
with all the strength of her heart; and the strength of her heart was very great. And now by
degrees, in those lonely donkey-rides at Boxall Hill, in those solitary walks, she was beginning
to own to herself the truth.

And now that she did own it, what should be her course? What should she do, how should she
act if this loved one persevered in his love? And, ah! what should she do, how should she act
if he did not persevere? Could it be that there should be happiness in store for her? Was it
not too clear that, let the matter go how it would, there was no happiness in store for her?
Much as she might love Frank Gresham, she could never consent to be his wife unless the squire
would smile on her as his daughter-in-law. The squire had been all that was kind, all that
was affectionate. And then, too, Lady Arabella! As she thought of the Lady Arabella a sterner
form of thought came across her brow. Why should Lady Arabella rob her of her heart's joy?
What was Lady Arabella that she, Mary Thorne, need quail before her? Had Lady Arabella stood
only in her way, Lady Arabella, flanked by the de Courcy legion, Mary felt that she could have
demanded Frank's hand as her own before them all without a blush of shame or a moment's hesitation.
Thus, when her heart was all but ready to collapse within her, would she gain some little strength
by thinking of the Lady Arabella.

"Please, my lady, here be young squoire Gresham," said one of the untutored servants at Boxall
Hill, opening Lady Scatcherd's little parlour door as her ladyship was amusing herself by pulling
down and turning, and re-folding, and putting up again, a heap of household linen which was
kept in a huge press for the express purpose of supplying her with occupation.

Lady Scatcherd, holding a vast counterpane in her arms, looked back over her shoulders and
perceived that Frank was in the room. Down went the counterpane on the ground, and Frank soon
found himself in the very position which that useful article had so lately filled.

"Oh! Master Frank! oh, Master Frank!" said her ladyship, almost in an hysterical fit of joy;
and then she hugged and kissed him as she had never kissed and hugged her own son since that
son had first left the parent nest.

Frank bore it patiently and with a merry laugh. "But, Lady Scatcherd," said he, "what will
they all say? you forget I am a man now," and he stooped his head as she again pressed her
lips upon his forehead.

"I don't care what none of 'em say," said her ladyship, quite going back to her old days; "I
will kiss my own boy; so I will. Eh, but Master Frank, this is good of you. A sight of you
is good for sore eyes; and my eyes have been sore enough too since I saw you;" and she put
her apron up to wipe away a tear.

"Yes," said Frank, gently trying to disengage himself, but not successfully; "yes, you have
had a great loss, Lady Scatcherd. I was so sorry when I heard of your grief."

"You always had a soft, kind heart, Master Frank; so you had. God's blessing on you! What a
fine man you have grown! Deary me! Well, it seems as though it were only just t'other day like."
And she pushed him a little off from her, so that she might look the better into his face.

"Well. Is it all right? I suppose you would hardly know me again now I've got a pair of whiskers?"

"Know you! I should know you well if I saw but the heel of your foot. Why, what a head of hair
you have got, and so dark too! but it doesn't curl as it used once." And she stroked his hair,
and looked into his eyes, and put her hand to his cheeks. "You'll think me an old fool, Master
Frank: I know that; but you may think what you like. If I live for the next twenty years you'll
always be my own boy; so you will."

By degrees, slow degrees, Frank managed to change the conversation, and to induce Lady Scatcherd
to speak on some other topic than his own infantine perfections. He affected an indifference
as he spoke of her guest, which would have deceived no one but Lady Scatcherd; but her it did
deceive; and then he asked where Mary was.

"She's just gone out on her donkey--somewhere about the place. She rides on a donkey mostly
every day. But you'll stop and take a bit of dinner with us? Eh, now do 'ee, Master Frank."

But Master Frank excused himself. He did not choose to pledge himself to sit down to dinner
with Mary. He did not know in what mood they might return with regard to each other at dinner-time.
He said, therefore, that he would walk out and, if possible, find Miss Thorne; and that he
would return to the house again before he went.

Lady Scatcherd then began making apologies for Sir Louis. He was an invalid; the doctor had
been with him all the morning, and he was not yet out of his room.

These apologies Frank willingly accepted, and then made his way as he could on to the lawn.
A gardener, of whom he inquired, offered to go with him in pursuit of Miss Thorne. This assistance,
however, he declined, and set forth in quest of her, having learnt what were her most usual
haunts. Nor was he directed wrongly; for after walking about twenty minutes, he saw through
the trees the legs of a donkey moving on the green-sward, at about two hundred yards from him.
On that donkey doubtless sat Mary Thorne.

The donkey was coming towards him; not exactly in a straight line, but so much so as to make
it impossible that Mary should not see him if he stood still. He did stand still, and soon
emerging from the trees, Mary saw him all but close to her.

Her heart gave a leap within her, but she was so far mistress of herself as to repress any
visible sign of outward emotion. She did not fall from her donkey, or scream, or burst into
tears. She merely uttered the words, "Mr Gresham!" in a tone of not unnatural surprise.

"Yes," said he, trying to laugh, but less successful than she had been in suppressing a show
of feeling. "Mr Gresham! I have come over at last to pay my respects to you. You must have
thought me very uncourteous not to do so before."

