"England, when she goes to war," said a Prime Minister not long ago, "has not to consider whether
she will be able to fight a second or a third campaign."  We remembered that we were Englishmen;
and on January 19th, 1877, went down again with a good courage for our third campaign on the
Welsh coast.  A furious gale was howling that day among the hills of Cardiganshire, recalling
to the memory of some of us the stormy Ides of March, when the pioneers of our little army
first set foot in Borth. Omina principiis inesse solent.  This gale was sounding the key-note
of the term's adventures.

The cause of our return to Borth for a third term is briefly told.  We had gone home at Christmas,
uncertain whether we should meet again there or at Uppingham.  Dr. Acland, of Oxford, to whose
active sympathy with the school in its perplexities we must at least gratefully allude, had
undertaken on our behalf to inspect the sanitary condition of Uppingham, and give us his judgment
on the expediency of reassembling there.  His judgment was submitted to the attention of the
Trustees at their meeting, on December 22nd, when it was resolved that, "In the face of Dr.
Acland's report, the Trustees deeply regret they cannot at present recall the school to Uppingham."
So we went back to the sea.

Our numbers this term just missed by one the normal total of three hundred.  In the two preceding
terms they had been smaller by some five or six.  The camp at Borth, therefore, had not suffered
from want of recruits.  Indeed, it was now foreseen that the return to Uppingham would be for
about one-third of the school a first arrival there.

The beginning of the end of our exile seemed to be marked by the reduced number of masters'
families in camp.  Some had gone into winter quarters at Aberystwith; some had already resettled
at Uppingham.  Our connection with home began to be retightened also by parochial and other
common transactions, in which we took our share from a distance.  Not, indeed, that the connection
had ever been discontinued.  We had left too precious pledges behind us.  The deserted gardens
did not waste all their sweetness on the air which we had exchanged for a "fresher clime."
A thin intermittent stream of their products found its way along the nine hours of railway
through most of the year.  Flowers, fruit, and vegetables might raise tantalising memories
of the pleasant places where they grew, but were not the less welcome to dwellers in this somewhat
austere tract where they did not grow or grew very niggardly.  The traffic in these delicacies
drew the attention of the London and North- Western Railway Company, whose officials called
to account one of our servants for travelling with an excess of personal luggage.  The artless
contrabandist, besides his own modest pack, had fourteen several hampers and boxes under his
charge.  This was checked.  But who was the miscreant who systematically staved in and pounded
into such odd shapes the little tin boxes in which our rose-fanciers had their choice blooms
sent them by post?  Post Office authorities thought the damage was caused by "the pressure
of the letters."  We did not, and remonstrated, till the practice, whoever was the criminal,
was stopped.  Besides these gracious souvenirs of home, there were from time to time business
matters which we had to transact as parishioners and ratepayers.  One was sensible of an almost
humorous contrast, when we discussed our interests in the Midlands in a room overlooking the
coast and hills of Cardiganshire, where one turned from watching the waves breaking crisply
on the beach, to study a map of some property in Rutland pastures.  It has been accounted a
signal proof of Roman self-confidence, that bidders could be found for a piece of land on which
Hannibal was encamped at the moment of sale.  The situations are not quite parallel.  But people
who could seriously debate, as we did, on the purchase of a freehold at a time when not even
their Rome was their own, clearly had not despaired of their country.

With the exception of the moving incidents to be immediately narrated, the tale of this term's
life differs little from that of the preceding. The round of work and play was much the same;
the harriers were out again, football went on as before, till superseded by the "athletics,"
and a match was played on March 7th against Shrewsbury School on their ground, of which the
result was a drawn battle.

Our difficulties this term were with the elements.  In novels of school life, where the scene
is laid on the coast, the hero always imperils his bones in an escapade upon the cliffs.  The
heroes of our romance knew what was expected of them.  Accordingly, two new boys of a week's
standing start one afternoon for a ramble on Borth Head and are missing at tea-time.  Search
parties are organised at once (it was not the first occasion, for the writer remembers sharing
in a wild-goose chase which lasted four hours of the night, along and under the same cliffs);
while one skirted the marsh to Taliesin, another explored the coast.  The latter party at nine
o'clock in the evening discovered the involuntary tenants perched upon a rock a little way
up the cliff.  They had climbed to it to escape the tide which had cut them off, and here they
sat, telling stones in turn, they said, to while away the time till the tide should retire.
Before the waters went, however, darkness came; and either from fear of breaking bones in the
descent or suspicion of some fresh treachery in the mysterious sea, they clung to their perch,
blessing the mildness of a January night without wind or frost, but blessing with still more
fervency the lanterns of their rescuers.  They had passed five hours in this anxious situation.

This was the sportive prelude of more serious trouble.  Nunquam imprudentibus imber incidit:
as the servant perhaps reflected, who, on Monday, January 29th, was conveying the dinner of
his master's family from the Hotel kitchen to Cambrian Terrace.  As he crossed the gusty street
between them, the harpies of the storm swept the dinner from dish, and rolled a prime joint
over and over in the dust.  A leg of mutton was following, but he caught it dexterously by
the knuckle-end as it fell, and rescued so much from the wreck.  Such incidents are significant:
trifles light as air, no doubt, but at least they showed which way the wind blew.  And did
it not blow? for three days the sou'-wester had been heaping up the sea-water against the shores
of Cardigan Bay.  People remembered with misgivings that an expected high tide coincided in
time with the gale, and shook their heads significantly as they went to bed on the eve of January
30th.

In the half light before sunrise, the classes, emerging from the school- room after morning
prayers, found the street between them and the Terrace threaded by a stream of salt water,
which was pouring over the sea-wall in momently increasing volume.  Skirting or jumping the
obstruction they reached the class-rooms, and work began.  But before morning school was over
the stream had become a river, and thrifty housewives were keeping out the flood from their
ground-floors by impromptu dams.  Those who were well placed saw a memorable sight that morn,
as the terrible white rollers came remorselessly in, sheeting the black cliff sides in the
distance with columns of spouted foam, then thundering on the low sea- wall, licking up or
battening down the stakes of its palisades, and scattering apart and volleying before it the
pebbles built in between them, till the village street was heaped with the ruins of the barrier
over which the waters swept victoriously into the level plain beyond:

   The feet had hardly time to flee
   Before it brake against the knee,
   And all the world was in the sea.

Those who were looking inland saw how

         Along the river's bed
   A mighty eygre reared its head
   And up the Lery raging sped.

And though they could not see how the tenants of the low-lying hamlet of Ynislas fled to their
upper storey as the tide plunged them into twelve feet of water; how it breached the railway
beyond, sapping four miles of embankment, and sweeping the bodies of a drowned flock of sheep
far inland to the very foot of the hills; yet they saw enough to make them recall the grim
memories of the historic shore, and doubt if our fortunes were not about to add a chapter to
the legend of the Lost Lowland Hundred.

For an hour the narrow ridge on which the village stands was swept by a storm of foam, while,
from moment to moment, a wave exploding against the crest of the ridge, would leap in through
the intervals between the houses, and carrying along a drift of sea-weed and shingle, splintered
timber, and wrecked peat-stacks, go eddying down into the drowned pastures beyond.  Yet when
the ebb came, and men began to count their losses, there were but few to record.  The embankment
at the south end of the village had been beaten flat, and the road behind it buried under a
silt of shingle; the nearest houses to it had been flooded and threatened with collapse, so
that the owners were offering them next day on easy terms; from our hospital, which stood in
this quarter, the one patient and his nurse were rescued on the backs of waders; the foundations
of a chapel, which was building on lower ground, were reported sapped, and a staunch Churchman
of our Welsh acquaintance stood rapturously contrasting the fate of the conventicle with the
security of his own place of worship on the neighbouring knoll.  "If Borth goes, the church
won't, anyhow!" he cried, in self-forgetting fervour.  No lives were lost, though several were
barely saved.  One of our party rescued his dog, already straining at his chain to escape a
watery grave; another saved (dearer than life itself) his favourite violin.  A fisherman, surprised
in his kitchen, was flung down and nearly strangled between door and doorpost by the rush of
a wave through the window.  A neighbour was drifted out of his house on the top of one wave,
and scrambled back to find the door slammed and held against him by another.  Rueful groups
of women stood in the street, sobbing over armfuls of what one feared might be drowned infants,
but were, in fact, the little pigs which they had plucked alive and remonstrant from the flooded
styes.  In short, if many were frightened, few could plead to being hurt.

Meanwhile, the boys had found their way from the class-rooms upon bridges of railway-sleepers
requisitioned from the station-yard.  We could not but enjoy that "something not altogether
unpleasing to us in the calamities of our neighbours," but the "humorous ruth," with which
we contemplated the comical incidents of the disaster was exchanged in good time for practical
pity.  There was to be another high tide that evening, and how would the village stand this
second storm of its broken defences? So the order was given to assemble in the street after
dinner, and work at the repair of the breaches.  The street looked like an ant-hill, as the
workers, divided into gangs by houses, with the housemaster at the head of his gang, swarmed
on the roadway, clearing it from the debris with pickaxe, spade, and a multitude of hands;
re-stacking the cottagers' store of peat-sods, which the waves had sown broadcast; forming
chains across the beach to pass up from hand to hand the large pebbles at low- water mark,
to build in between the palisades; or cutting down the old stakes and driving in new ones.
This last was the most attractive branch of the service.  How enviable was he whom a reputation
as a woodman secured the enjoyment of an axe, and the genial employ of hewing and hammering!
This was much to be preferred to cutting your hands in moving rubbish or standing still to
hand wet stones in a freezing wind.  However, the pleasure of helping other people was common
to all; and many of the young hearts, which tasted that pleasure in this rough day's labour,
will have gained an impulse of prompt helpfulness that may serve them in other and ruder storms
than that which shook the frail homes of these friendly villagers.

We do not know how our defences would have stood the test of battle.  They were not put to
the proof, for the wind, veering to the north that morning, and blowing strongly all day, reduced
again the volume of the water in the bay, and the following tides came and went harmlessly.
But had the morrow repeated the terrors of this day, we should hardly have been up to witness
them, for (proh pudor!) we rewarded ourselves for our exertions by a lie-a-bed next morning
in place of early school.

Elsewhere the storm-wave had worked more havoc.  At Ynyslas, a flock of one hundred and fifteen
sheep were caught in their pastures, and drowned, the farmer rescuing only eleven.  The cottagers
were driven to their lofts, while the tide snatched away their furniture, doors, window-frames,
and tables, and strewed them along the railway banks. There was flotsam and jetsam on what
was now once more the coast-line at the village of Taliesin, where in old days the bard's cradle
had been washed ashore; here one poor woman recovered her parlour-table of heavy oak; her chairs
had travelled farther yet to the door of a farmhouse in the extreme corner of the marsh.  These
people were greater sufferers than our villagers, but we could only help them by a subscription
to replace their losses.

For ourselves, we suffered nothing except a temporary scarcity of coals and oil from the interruption
of the railway traffic.  It was a fortnight before the next train ran on the stretch between
us and Machynlleth, and in the meanwhile the gap was bridged by a coach service.  From four
miles of embankment the ballast had been sapped away, and the sleepers and rails collapsing
into the void presented a dismal picture of wreck.

Yes, we suffered one other privation.  It was long before our football- field rose again from
the deeps, and was dry enough for play.  Its goalposts pricking up mournfully through the floods
were a landmark which the boys recognised with rueful eyes in the midst of the drowned and
deformed landscape.

