Search forward and back with the same string.

[16:0] CHAPTER XVI - Of the Foundations of a State;
   of the Natural and  Civil Rights of Individuals;
   and of the Rights of the Sovereign Power.

[16:1]  In Nature right co-extensive with power.

[16:2]  This principle applies to mankind in the state of Nature.

[16:3]  How a transition from this state to a civil state is possible.

[16:4]  Subjects not slaves.

[16:5]  Definition of private civil right - and wrong.

[16:6]  Of alliance.

[16:7]  Of treason.

[16:8]  In what sense sovereigns are bound by Divine law.

[16:9]  Civil government not inconsistent with religion.

[17:0]  CHAPTER XVII.- It is shown, that no one can or need
   transfer all his Rights to the Sovereign Power. Of the
   Hebrew Republic, as it was during  the lifetime of Moses,
   and after his death till the foundation of the Monarchy;
   and of its Excellence. Lastly, of the Causes why the
   Theocratic Republic fell, and why it could hardly have
   continued without Dissension.

[17:1]  The absolute theory, of Sovereignty ideal - No one can
        in fact transfer all his rights to the Sovereign power.
        Evidence of this.

[17:2]  The greatest danger in all States from within,
        not without.

[17:3]  Original independence of the Jews after the Exodus.

[17:4]  Changed first to a pure democratic Theocracy.

[17:5]  Then to subjection to Moses.

[17:6]  Then to a Theocracy with the power divided
        between the high priest and the captains.

[17:7]  The tribes confederate states.

[17:8]  Restraints on the civil power.

[17:9]  Restraints on the people.

[17:A]  Causes of decay involved in the constitution
        of the Levitical priesthood.

[18:0]  CHAPTER XVIII.- From the Commonwealth of the Hebrews and
   their History certain Lessons are deduced.

[18:1]  The Hebrew constitution no longer possible or desirable,
        yet lessons may be derived from its history.

[18:2]  As the danger of entrusting any authority in politics
        to ecclesiastics - the danger of identifying
        religion with dogma.

[18:3]  The necessity of keeping all judicial power with
        the sovereign - the danger  of changes in the
        form of a State.

[18:4]  This last danger illustrated from the history of
        England - of Rome.

[18:5]  And of Holland.

[19:0] CHAPTER XIX -  It is shown that the Right
   over Matters Spiritual lies wholly with the
   Sovereign, and that the Outward Forms of
   Religion should be in accordance with Public
   Peace, if we would worship God aright.

[19:1]  Difference between external and inward religion.

[19:2]  Positive law established only by agreement.

[19:3]  Piety furthered by peace and obedience.

[19:4]  Position of the Apostles exceptional.

[19:5]  Why Christian States, unlike the Hebrew,
        suffer from disputes between the civil
        and ecclesiastical powers.

[19:6]  Absolute power in things spiritual of modern rulers.

[20:0]  CHAPTER XX -  That in a Free State every man may Think what he Likes, and Say what
he Thinks.

[20:1]  The mind not subject to State authority.

[20:2]  Therefore in general language should not be.

[20:3]  A man who disapproving of a law, submits his adverse opinion
        to the judgment of the authorities, while acting in
        accordance  with the law, deserves well of the State.

[20:4]  That liberty of opinion is beneficial, shown from
        the history of Amsterdam.

[20:5]  Danger to the State of withholding it. -
        Submission of the Author to the
        judgment of his country's rulers.

[Author's Endnotes] to the Treatise.

(1) Hitherto our care has been to separate philosophy from theology, and to show the freedom
of thought which such separation insures to both. (2) It is now time to determine the limits
to which such freedom of thought and discussion may extend itself in the ideal state. (3) For
the due consideration of this question we must examine the foundations of a State, first turning
our attention to the natural rights of individuals, and afterwards to religion and the state
as a whole. [16:1] (6) For it is certain that nature, taken in the abstract, has sovereign
right to do anything, she can; in other words, her right is co- extensive with her power. (16)
Nevertheless, they are in the meanwhile bound to live and preserve themselves as far as they
can by the unaided impulses of desire. [16:3] (24) When we reflect that men without mutual
help, or the aid of reason, must needs live most miserably, as we clearly proved in Chap.

(16:26) How such a compact as this should be entered into, how ratified and established, we
will now inquire. (28) That is, everyone will, of two goods, choose that which he thinks the
greatest; and, of two evils, that which he thinks the least. (29) I say advisedly that which
he thinks the greatest or the least, for it does not necessarily follow that he judges right.
(32) An example will make the matter clearer. (33) Suppose that a robber forces me to promise
that I will give him my goods at his will and pleasure.

(16:37) We may, therefore, conclude that a compact is only made valid by its utility, without
which it becomes null and void. (38) It is, therefore, foolish to ask a man to keep his faith
with us for ever, unless we also endeavour that the violation of the compact we enter into
shall involve for the violator more harm than good. (39) This consideration should have very
great weight in forming a state. (49) For reason bids us choose the least of two evils. (52)
No one can long retain a tyrant's sway. (67) I need add no more. (72) It can only arise, therefore,
between private persons, who are bound by law and right not to injure one another. (93) Therefore,
previous to revelation, no one is bound by a Divine law and right of which he is necessarily
in ignorance.

(16:96) If men were naturally bound by the Divine law and right, or if the Divine law and right
were a natural necessity, there would have been no need for God to make a covenant with mankind,
and to bind them thereto with an oath and agreement.

(16:97) We must, then, fully grant that the Divine law and right originated at the time when
men by express covenant agreed to obey God in all things, and ceded, as it were, their natural
freedom, transferring their rights to God in the manner described in speaking of the formation
of a state.

(98) However, I will treat of these matters more at length presently. (103) Even then he does
not recognize a man, but God Himself as His judge.

(107) We may be asked, what should we do if the sovereign commands anything contrary to religion,
and the obedience which we have expressly vowed to God? should we obey the Divine law or the
human law? (108) I shall treat of this question at length hereafter, and will therefore merely
say now, that God should be obeyed before all else, when we have a certain and indisputable
revelation of His will: but men are very prone to error on religious subjects, and, according
to the diversity of their dispositions, are wont with considerable stir to put forward their
own inventions, as experience more than sufficiently attests, so that if no one were bound
to obey the state in matters which, in his own opinion concern religion, the rights of the
state would be dependent on every man's judgment and passions. (109) No one would consider
himself bound to obey laws framed against his faith or superstition; and on this pretext he
might assume unbounded license. (110) In this way, the rights of the civil authorities would
be utterly set at nought, so that we must conclude that the sovereign power, which alone is
bound both by Divine and natural right to preserve and guard the laws of the state, should
have supreme authority for making any laws about religion which it thinks fit; all are bound
to obey its behests on the subject in accordance with their promise which God bids them to keep.

(16:111) However, if the sovereign power be heathen, we should either enter into no engagements
therewith, and yield up our lives sooner than transfer to it any of our rights; or, if the
engagement be made, and our rights transferred, we should (inasmuch as we should have ourselves
transferred the right of defending ourselves and our religion) be bound to obey them, and to
keep our word: we might even rightly be bound so to do, except in those cases where God, by
indisputable revelation, has promised His special aid against tyranny, or given us special
exemption from obedience. (112) Thus we see that, of all the Jews in Babylon, there were only
three youths who were certain of the help of God, and, therefore, refused to obey Nebuchadnezzar.
(113) All the rest, with the sole exception of Daniel, who was beloved by the king, were doubtless
compelled by right to obey, perhaps thinking that they had been delivered up by God into the
hands of the king, and that the king had obtained and preserved his dominion by God's design.
(114) On the other hand, Eleazar, before his country had utterly fallen, wished to give a proof
of his constancy to his compatriots, in order that they might follow in his footsteps, and
go to any lengths, rather than allow their right and power to be transferred to the Greeks,
or brave any torture rather than swear allegiance to the heathen. (115) Instances are occurring
every day in confirmation of what I here advance. (116) The rulers of Christian kingdoms do
not hesitate, with a view to strengthening their dominion, to make treaties with Turks and
heathen, and to give orders to their subjects who settle among such peoples not to assume more
freedom, either in things secular or religious, than is set down in the treaty, or allowed
by the foreign government. (117) We may see this exemplified in the Dutch treaty with the Japanese,
which I have already mentioned. (2) No one can ever so utterly transfer to another his power
and, consequently, his rights, as to cease to be a man; nor can there ever be a power so sovereign
that it can carry out every possible wish. (3) It will always be vain to order a subject to
hate what he believes brings him advantage, or to love what brings him loss, or not to be offended
at insults, or not to wish to be free from fear, or a hundred other things of the sort, which
necessarily follow from the laws of human nature. (4) So much, I think, is abundantly shown
by experience: for men have never so far ceded their power as to cease to be an object of fear
to the rulers who received such power and right; and dominions have always been in as much
danger from their own subjects as from external enemies. (5) If it were really the case, that
men could be deprived of their natural rights so utterly as never to have any further influence
on affairs [Endnote 29], except with the permission of the holders of sovereign right, it would
then be possible to maintain with impunity the most violent tyranny, which, I suppose, no one
would for an instant admit.

(17:6) We must, therefore, grant that every man retains some part of his right, in dependence
on his own decision, and no one else's.

(7) However, in order correctly to understand the extent of the sovereign's right and power,
we must take notice that it does not cover only those actions to which it can compel men by
fear, but absolutely every action which it can induce men to perform: for it is the fact of
obedience, not the motive for obedience, which makes a man a subject.

