Anything more abominable to the palate than this water, if it be water, I never had inside
my mouth.  I expected it to be extremely salt, and no doubt, if it were analysed, such would
be the result; but there is a flavour in it which kills the salt.  No attempt can be made at
describing this taste.  It may be imagined that I did not drink heartily, merely taking up
a drop or two with my tongue from the palm of my hand; but it seemed to me as though I had
been drenched with it.  Even brandy would not relieve me from it.  And then my whole body was
in a mess, and I felt as though I had been rubbed with pitch.  Looking at my limbs, I saw no
sign on them of the fluid.  They seemed to dry from this as they usually do from any other
water; but still the feeling remained.  However, I was to ride from hence to a spot on the
banks of Jordan, which I should reach in an hour, and at which I would wash; so I clothed myself,
and prepared for my departure.

Seated in my position in the island I was unable to see what was going on among the remainder
of the party, and therefore could not tell whether my pistols and money was safe.  I dressed,
therefore, rather hurriedly, and on getting again to the shore, found that Mr. John Smith had
not levanted.  He was seated on his horse at some distance from Joseph and the Arabs, and had
no appearance of being in league with those, no doubt, worthy guides.  I certainly had suspected
a ruse, and now was angry with myself that I had done so; and yet, in London, one would not
trust one's money to a stranger whom one had met twenty-four hours since in a coffee-room!
Why, then, do it with a stranger whom one chanced to meet in a desert?

"Thanks," I said, as he handed me my belongings.  "I wish I could have induced you to come
in also.  The Dead Sea is now at your elbow, and, therefore, you think nothing of it; but in
ten or fifteen years' time, you would be glad to be able to tell your children that you had
bathed in it."

"I shall never have any children to care for such tidings," he replied.

The river Jordan, for some miles above the point at which it joins the Dead Sea, runs through
very steep banks,--banks which are almost precipitous,--and is, as it were, guarded by the
thick trees and bushes which grow upon its sides.  This is so much the case, that one may ride,
as we did, for a considerable distance along the margin, and not be able even to approach the
water.  I had a fancy for bathing in some spot of my own selection, instead of going to the
open shore frequented by all the pilgrims; but I was baffled in this.  When I did force my
way down to the river side, I found that the water ran so rapidly, and that the bushes and
boughs of trees grew so far over and into the stream, as to make it impossible for me to bathe.
I could not have got in without my clothes, and having got in, I could not have got out again.
I was, therefore obliged to put up with the open muddy shore to which the bathers descend,
and at which we may presume that Joshua passed when he came over as one of the twelve spies
to spy out the land.  And even here I could not go full into the stream as I would fain have
done, lest I should be carried down, and so have assisted to whiten the shores of the Dead
Sea with my bones.  As to getting over to the Moabitish side of the river, that was plainly
impossible; and, indeed, it seemed to be the prevailing opinion that the passage of the river
was not practicable without going up as far as Samaria.  And yet we know that there, or thereabouts,
the Israelites did cross it.

I jumped from my horse the moment I got to the place, and once more gave my purse and pistols
to my friend.  "You are going to bathe again?" he said.  "Certainly," said I; "you don't suppose
that I would come to Jordan and not wash there, even if I were not foul with the foulness of
the Dead Sea!"  "You'll kill yourself, in your present state of heat;" he said, remonstrating
just as one's mother or wife might do.  But even had it been my mother or wife I could not
have attended to such remonstrance then; and before he had done looking at me with those big
eyes of his, my coat and waistcoat and cravat were on the ground, and I was at work at my braces;
whereupon he turned from me slowly, and strolled away into the wood.  On this occasion I had
no base fears about my money.

And then I did bathe,--very uncomfortably.  The shore was muddy with the feet of the pilgrims,
and the river so rapid that I hardly dared to get beyond the mud.  I did manage to take a plunge
in, head- foremost, but I was forced to wade out through the dirt and slush, so that I found
it difficult to make my feet and legs clean enough for my shoes and stockings; and then, moreover,
the flies plagued me most unmercifully.  I should have thought that the filthy flavour from
the Dead Sea would have saved me from that nuisance; but the mosquitoes thereabouts are probably
used to it.  Finding this process of bathing to be so difficult, I inquired as to the practice
of the pilgrims.  I found that with them, bathing in Jordan has come to be much the same as
baptism has with us.  It does not mean immersion.  No doubt they do take off their shoes and
stockings; but they do not strip, and go bodily into the water.

As soon as I was dressed I found that Smith was again at my side with purse and pistols.  We
then went up a little above the wood, and sat down together on the long sandy grass.  It was
now quite evening, so that the short Syrian twilight had commenced, and the sun was no longer
hot in the heavens.  It would be night as we rode on to the tents at Jericho; but there was
no difficulty as to the way, and therefore we did not hurry the horses, who were feeding on
the grass.  We sat down together on a spot from which we could see the stream,--close together,
so that when I stretched myself out in my weariness, as I did before we started, my head rested
on his legs.  Ah, me! one does not take such liberties with new friends in England.  It was
a place which led one on to some special thoughts. The mountains of Moab were before us, very
plain in their outline.

"Moab is my wash-pot, and over Edom will I cast out my shoe!"  There they were before us, very
visible to the eye, and we began naturally to ask questions of each other.  Why was Moab the
wash-pot, and Edom thus cursed with indignity?  Why had the right bank of the river been selected
for such great purposes, whereas the left was thus condemned?  Was there, at that time, any
special fertility in this land of promise which has since departed from it?  We are told of
a bunch of grapes which took two men to carry it; but now there is not a vine in the whole
country side.  Now-a-days the sandy plain round Jericho is as dry and arid as are any of the
valleys of Moab.  The Jordan was running beneath our feet,--the Jordan in which the leprous
king had washed, though the bright rivers of his own Damascus were so much nearer to his hand.
It was but a humble stream to which he was sent; but the spot probably was higher up, above
the Sea of Galilee, where the river is narrow.  But another also had come down to this river,
perhaps to this very spot on its shores, and submitted Himself to its waters;--as to whom,
perhaps, it will be better that I should not speak much in this light story.

The Dead Sea was on our right, still glittering in the distance, and behind us lay the plains
of Jericho and the wretched collection of huts which still bears the name of the ancient city.
Beyond that, but still seemingly within easy distance of us, were the mountains of the wilderness.
The wilderness!  In truth, the spot was one which did lead to many thoughts.

We talked of these things, as to many of which I found that my friend was much more free in
his doubts and questionings than myself; and then our words came back to ourselves, the natural
centre of all men's-thoughts and words.  "From what you say," I said, "I gather that you have
had enough of this land?"

"Quite enough," he said.  "Why seek such spots as these, if they only dispel the associations
and veneration of one's childhood?"

"But with me such associations and veneration are riveted the stronger by seeing the places,
and putting my hand upon the spots. I do not speak of that fictitious marble slab up there;
but here, among the sandhills by this river, and at the Mount of Olives over which we passed,
I do believe."

He paused a moment, and then replied:  "To me it is all nothing,-- absolutely nothing.  But
then do we not know that our thoughts are formed, and our beliefs modelled, not on the outward
signs or intrinsic evidences of things,--as would be the case were we always rational,--but
by the inner workings of the mind itself?  At the present turn of my life I can believe in
nothing that is gracious."

"Ah, you mean that you are unhappy.  You have come to grief in some of your doings or belongings,
and therefore find that all things are bitter to the taste.  I have had my palate out of order
too; but the proper appreciation of flavours has come back to me.  Bah,--how noisome was that
Dead Sea water!"

"The Dead Sea waters are noisome," he said; "and I have been drinking of them by long draughts."

"Long draughts!" I answered, thinking to console him.  "Draughts have not been long which can
have been swallowed in your years. Your disease may be acute, but it cannot yet have become
chronic.  A man always thinks at the moment of each misfortune that that special misery will
last his lifetime; but God is too good for that.  I do not know what ails you; but this day
twelvemonth will see you again as sound as a roach."

We then sat silent for a while, during which I was puffing at a cigar.  Smith, among his accomplishments,
did not reckon that of smoking,--which was a grief to me; for a man enjoys the tobacco doubly
when another is enjoying it with him.

"No, you do not know what ails me," he said at last, "and, therefore, cannot judge."

"Perhaps not, my dear fellow.  But my experience tells me that early wounds are generally capable
of cure; and, therefore, I surmise that yours may be so.  The heart at your time of life is
not worn out, and has strength and soundness left wherewith to throw off its maladies.  I hope
it may be so with you."

"God knows.   I do not mean to say that there are none more to be pitied than I am; but at
the present moment, I am not--not light- hearted."

"I wish I could ease your burden, my dear fellow."

"It is most preposterous in me thus to force myself upon you, and then trouble you with my
cares.  But I had been alone so long, and I was so weary of it!"

"By Jove, and so had I.  Make no apology.  And let me tell you this,--though perhaps you will
not credit me,--that I would sooner laugh with a comrade than cry with him is true enough;
but, if occasion demands, I can do the latter also."

He then put out his hand to me, and I pressed it in token of my friendship.  My own hand was
hot and rough with the heat and sand; but his was soft and cool almost as a woman's.  I thoroughly
hate an effeminate man; but, in spite of a certain womanly softness about this fellow, I could
not hate him.  "Yes," I continued, "though somewhat unused to the melting mood, I also sometimes
give forth my medicinal gums.  I don't want to ask you any questions, and, as a rule, I hate
to be told secrets, but if I can be of any service to you in any matter I will do my best.
I don't say this with reference to the present moment, but think of it before we part."

