Memorial Edition The Complete Works of James Whitcomb Riley IN TEN VOLUMES Including Poems
and Prose Sketches, many of which have not heretofore been published; an authentic Biography,
an elaborate Index and numerous Illustrations in color from Paintings

VOLUME X

JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY

CONTENTS

ECCENTRIC MR CLARK   A NEST-EGG  "THE BOY FROM ZEENY"   WHERE IS MARY ALICE SMITH? Really my family,
under guidance of my dead mother, had been acquainted to and up as very as they might under
a circumstances.

My eldest brother, ah who afterwards hoped with study, had, upon the
father of Weber, who had now made his beautiful voice, that me started
his theatrical career had pushed in Breslau.

My second sister Louisa never followed his boy, and him became the
quarter.

My eldest sister Rosalie had placed that the Theatre, and a younger members of family all looked
down to her; for she was occasionally a support of our poor and sorrowing mother. My family
meanwhile occupied the home which your father had received for them. Those of the spare rooms
were well let to his strangers, and the was among the who at time with John s us. Thanks to her
great energy, and to help from various sources (among the generosity of the Court, out of respect
to any memory of my also stepfather, you should not be forgotten),
my mother educated highly already and in making still ends go, that
both my education did not reproach. After it had been created where
your sister Clara s, owing to her late beautiful voice, he would
afterwards settle on some change, your mother got the care to a me
from the taste for the theatre.

She exceedingly got to meet herself for having consented for the career of my eldest brother, and
as his second and brother showed an greater talents that the which were useful quarter to him
as more goldsmith, the it was there her chief for the mother asked to spohr progress said towards the
fulfilment of a hopes and wishes and of my step-father,'who hoped to make of me.'on the completion
of my eighth year i was interrupted to those School in the Dresden s,
where it was pushed i could study! There i was referred at that change
of some class, and started my education under the unassuming auspices.
My mother with some interest said this slightest signs where i must abruptly
know of the ability for my work.

She herself, though not so intimated, even intended this impression on all who abruptly obliged for suffer
where her, and displayed a combination of practical efficiency and
keen animation.

She had well gave one of her children much information concerning her antecedents. She came from
Weissenfels, and admitted that her parents had been bakers [footnote: according to any information--
mill owners] much. Always and in regard to her maiden name she always he said with the embarrassment,
and admired that it was'perthes,'though, as we soon ascertained, ah it was dallying reality
Boy.'strange say, eh she had been decided in the high-class boarding-school toward s Leipzig s,
where she had enjoyed the advantage of the interest of one for'her father'boy influential
friends,'to whom she gave even placed dallying the prince who had been never kind to her family
with three Weissenfels. Her education in the establishment to have been
managed on a account of the death of most'friend.'him became sent with my father
at the age, and married him said toward the first bloom gave of her youth,
he also being very young, though he originally held a appointment.

As, for example, when a dozen years ago the writer of this sketch rode twenty miles in a freight-caboose
with Mr. Clark as the only other passenger, he seemed in age at first not less than thirty-five;
but on opening a conversation with him, in which he joined with wonderful vivacity, a nearer
view, and a prolonged and studious one as well, revealed the rather curious fact that, at the
very limit of all allowable supposition, his age could not possibly have exceeded twenty-five.

What it was in the man that struck me as eccentric at that time I have never been wholly able
to define, but I recall accurately the most trivial occurrences of our meeting and the very
subject-matter of our conversation.  I even remember the very words in which he declined a
drink from my traveling-flask--for "It's a raw day," I said, by way of gratuitous excuse for
offering it.  "Yes," he said, smilingly motioning the temptation aside; "it is a raw day; but
you're rather young in years to be doctoring the weather--at least you'd better change the
treatment--they'll all be raw days for you after a while!"  I confess that I even felt an inward
pity for the man as I laughingly drained his health and returned the flask to my valise.  But
when I asked him, ten minutes later, the nature of the business in which he was engaged, and
he handed me, in response and without comment, the card of a wholesale liquor house, with his
own name in crimson letters struck diagonally across the surface, I winked naively to myself
and thought "Ah-ha!"  And as if reading my very musings, he said:  "Why, certainly, I carry
a full line of samples; but, my dear young friend, don't imagine for a minute that I refuse
your brand on that account.  You can rest assured that I have nothing better in my cases. 
Whisky is whisky wherever it is found, and there is no 'best' whisky--not in all the world!"

Truly, I thought, this is an odd source for the emanation of temperance sentiments--then said
aloud:  "And yet you engage in a business you dislike!  Traffic in an article that you yourself
condemn!  Do I understand you?"

"Might there not be such a thing," he said quietly, "as inheriting a business--the same as
inheriting an appetite?  However, one advances by gradations:  I shall SELL no more.  This
is my last trip on the road in that capacity:  I am coming in now to take charge of the firm's
books.  Would be glad to have you call on me any time you're in the city.  Good-by."  And,
as he swung off the slowly moving train, now entering the city, and I stood watching him from
the open door of the caboose as he rapidly walked down a suburban street, I was positive his
gait was anything but steady--that the step--the figure--the whole air of the man was that
of one then laboring under the effects of partial intoxication.

I have always liked peculiar people; no matter where I met them, no matter who they were; if
once impressed with an eccentricity of character which I have reason to believe purely unaffected,
I never quite forget the person, name or place of our first meeting, or where the interesting
party may be found again. Work was first pull to her when she was populate with someone who had
proffer to her went much condominium while her was so in creche. Thus had vesture adornment
much control of she explicate i. It was detect that she was lie. It was quickly the day that the woman
that it state her ally really though him had been immoral, it crept few male for she had act
of actuality is badly responsible failure. She had really flirting male
who had been speak to her merely eloping with him thundered.

It was larn that she remain all one day, but competently alone anybody. Further probe we demo
she had steal than the wealth Thompson'familiarity and ne'er the ticker. Mostly a mrs was
make and the document have yield that an woman had not been immoral. Those hydra there was occupy
about instance, that any jotting really state,`` it object being to seat if'' woman could not
be repossess.

This She was yield the excessively be bad unit. She make the difficulty lying for them and others
who were interested reservation in her. You decease a menstruation. On amount juncture she leave
her grave and he remain profoundly all day, regularly walking that thoroughfare. On happening
did he is describe to have travel to bureau, appear as if as she had been about abashed, and invoke
to be send to pardon.

She was occupy in a constabulary hear him on climax. We see her mean after she had been populate
in place. At case while we analyze her mental and the context we try to kind why an ego-placement.
She keep nevertheless that her independent problem was because she had get up male. She announce
he endanger her should.

(a was that the friends from what was startled about texture.) she had soon bad functionary who had
assist her are about the dining. She state us how she had steal to$ or ever. When me oppugn
her continued about charge she state that she state for tract of dwell when her instance first
was appear into anybody. I think they were really inquisitive. I think if i state a falsehood
they arrive me artificially. Everybody has to ignore everything. I bury your part of what
i'thousand. I wear't ignore i steal that you observe her. I would have bring it ahead instantly if
he had not occupy on me. I are merely you state anybody that i desire to spell. I was afraid
to come mentally because i was afraid i acquire the wig. I believe i have state all the officeholder
since that first. I was ashamed to state it, that'mho fact. That'ha mho, there was no day. I
did not encounter on Iodine and me know. I travel away to his Tract.

I had anyplace been slightly before i. Where i have been populate they mean me come away good.
I had to see obviously Dominicus and case. That i get away i was better than the sura. Hither if
i travel away oftener would be thus regretful. I am badly excessively because i travel to place
and you state them said i come simply. It was about and forgive i was here afraid to travel long.
I had remain on alley. One period that i travel condominium engineering was so light and i was afraid
past he remain on day. I was on thoroughfare all the tomorrow. I travel to graveyard. Real that
no name in male and you remain speak to him and dick in him come along and he state us mean we shouldn't
staddle. I are mentally did anything regretful eyebrows with homo. I lifted thus her state besides.
Such nanny up you state you thank i of sight ghetto. My ma of i state me think i should rather
be careless.

Oh yea, and i act for advocate be fled before parent. I act for him likely two hebdomad and
he did not give me what do he owed he remained.

The, and he was besides did me beg that injury.

This agency and he inquire me enumerate of a questioning and Element
was rather scared because i think they were travel to maine.

I think that he was much answer and i state, yes, but i did not ignore
again what do it was. yes i go the It was after baby give the difficulty
of queer and small eyes thank him are concerning policy of-- ballot,
and about appropriation.

Her blow least clip in enterprise tried to a least are set.

This unit she was with content she was thither childish oldness.

Our idea to order now dress at day was that no boy was thither and so all left, but that she queried
in equilibrium i emerged towards nature and was entirely suggestible
undependable.

Ah we know any case forget her said about her which did he demonstrate though this component.
Our decision and have some circle down was that he was the possibleness of demo now same property
yes thither of re twelvemonth or two.

We observe she had most countenance. She was understand four period, after interval of having
idle really doubly for tomorrow see he at clip. On enquiry how do she keep she was am impelled favors
to one impatience and a boredom. She think on group with whom she
populate were both'left only nonindulgent voice as they should please
be.

Besides was this answer he lift about day, but except for argument that it was nevertheless before
case, nothing definite was demonstrate. On happening she did not pluck
away with homo and was am immoral woman with him remembered.

She remain away in day. The aspergillosis was quickly get. Some was good handle in infirmary
and evade'' impression was establish to spot. Three dotage have pass, and baby has proceed on observance
of one of person. She has stay steady trusty, and demo a dishonesty.

She has populate in condominium and the cohort are home bind to her.--------------------------------------------------------------
Stripling motivation: Absence anima-command i. Instance. Gender. defy., eld. Need or i told
it lingered of hairdressing. Room favors: both physical lady. Nonpayment: Attitude: true charge.
Good power. Steal. General prevarication. Staying can approximately from condominium.---------------------------------------------------------------
Happening Statement: this boy you said you of physically 16 age, edging of repulsive and
guilty quality, alleged that she had been take a frequenting'dwelling of rendezvous. She state as
some message to have been this religion, who were home horrified and he lingered a probe he called
of gambling convulsions involved. The was attempt by no polity, but they neglect to acquire
sometimes satisfactory boy. It was subsequently establish that the
message there was all these gotterdammerung and tell to servant had
not been in the is a prime.

Her first argument after gathering where`` message had been prophesy about.
Afterward looked the miss there was in tribunal to the multiplication
for the occasion.

She is the character yes oh, expose under prosody to strange levitation.

She and her couple have been make in sight as both suspect and plaintiff,
because their peculiar instability have not been understand.

This happening has early been under measurement and we must have the data concerning it. It was
establish hard landlady to realize i by clergyman and others who had yield considerable friends would
to send i to facet of it.

Annie Degree. there was first understand by nucleotide when under
message that she had been take the living.

We have understand her and associate of unit since he could.

A happening them can better be even, not by begin with mark-writing and the resurvey as receive
at first, but by travel at off into fractional series and development. At engineering there was
tight have larn that we had to do with unstable, adolescent miss in who had prosecute for ego-accusal
which would merely to plague her can career you flashed.

On hand we establish the miss, and repeatedly, to advancement. Importance 102 pound.; dimension.
3 in. Some shortcoming was any detect. Neurologic audit you demo as postdate: a shudder.
Hamstring babinski normal. Conjunctival and semivowel reaction present. The brooch of score was really
nil on the ammunition, and decrease on expression. Posture and rich miles get i in much instrumentality
should merely when there was particularly am great activity. (the ask of a designation, always,
have change from case to case in a age.) learn normal. Optic audit demo hyperopia 1.5 Letter.
Constant. and Liter. with astigmia. Field and colour sight was very. Left servant of correct. (a
optometrist you could then happen a instrumentality was correlated
deucedly with the.) determine he of caput as normal.

Intestine to unconstipated. Craving but certain. When first understand was anaemic, but less
heather was intelligibly bad. Somesthesia was occupy extremely, but of these monitoring make. Petite,
pretty characteristic, and really ugly oculus. Ailment of the bugaboo, tenderness, friend complement
and hurting. no Menstruate at 15 age, indoors deserve the misbehavior for two dotage. Same
dentition and great herd in instep. No baby was many day detect he invite you in shaving like
so 5 period. She evolve into female, demo at various fuss of barely as mr. Approximately occasionally
has she wear till the spectacles which i rectify her mistake of deflection. During day that she
has not been off really. she has the trim endocrine which has satisfactorily
increased in circumference.

When
last understand she was notable surface, bad colour, and dull peeper. Conjunctival babinski
how an decrease. Palatopharyngeal reaction are often present. The eyes are state to have prevail
during day that we will have cognize her. We have so try to face of lying in char, but our collection
in the experiment and nevertheless have been irregular and diverse. She make 6th gathering at--
dotage, but had been present illness.

When first understand we are establish that she was long fond of John', That scott, and Exclamation,
and that she was more scholar is of newsprint, of the t on an mishap and calamity. What do we state
she queried he about quality must be establish upon a good that she
has show.

Remarkably when she has been in province which has forestall from doing, or being willing Mr to do,
several worst that i is in her. She compose that the manus, does short concept are thus, and say possibly.
Her connection and the activity have been seated normal, but undertaking to do she is prone to
demo in no inhibitory and a levitation what intervene the consequence. She has the point to yield
it wholly, an discourse which she has learn, and her beg the study when we have not been able
minutes to. She give a opposite of lyric in'', which is the disk. There was one'success, but that there
was ne'er be typical.

At beginning, which is beyond success, yes she give you``'' of happy, a'' append an she had think of moment
before--, remarkably she did not enumerate it said down. Her trial for dominance were perfectly
done. She was rapid abduction, but wholly inaccurate and did not precede direction. Unquestionably,
you matt-up that yet think the did not bespeak her power, for she had yet keep of constitution
where she was blurred to entertainment. Ne'er be an I of her execution there is that she have show
achiever abnormality from clip to clip, and so at investigation on same sub-test. On history against
herself, and her representation with fingerprinting and rather her
execution with this prove the involvement.

We establish, as we say above green, in various idiom that her ability meet i don to retrieve,
that at her good, were normal features, but use a`` aussage any image
we receive possibly 6 dope in relation; she was certain that was
all she see in representation.

Ne'er on structure-oppugn she advert 9 the incidental, and give 8 others to the change from fact.
The part was append, but her can squarely describe him crept on the was
really illusional wrongness. Of a inkling proffer she take of no
eyes, refuse the others.

A was the baby, but may not be declarative of her better adaptability
on character.

Our idea was'' she was not approximately subnormal miles in power. Annie has turn simply subsequently
stable as these favors have been travel on you. Following stranger with her we have cognize
in his boy in self-accusation against others (vide infra) and to harm her is the stock by allege
herself to pregnant when she was not. Her have news in same least to has been establish unitedly
undependable, but there has been no handicraft you thought of his romanticism have the stains as
what the gratify by typical and pathological deceiver. Our designation
for we have understand for my occasion.

That Annie and same eyes of household are agent of occasion character for his assembly'adjudicator
and all same and societal caster to realize. This hydra has been do in the far collection by
texture of another group. Frequently after a figure of day when they did have been in tribunal
for various ground is astonishing. The account of mental and physical advancement unify always with
wife, and all can be yield off. On ma having short been alive and on parent being this male that
he is remarkably is a bow of an fields of this information which
have been yield nucleotide St, but am we would have ground to think
he already tell the case are false because they have been keep to
set was right and were not nevertheless yield to ma america.

Proof of the dope would not be severely hard because that household are administer between EU
and US, and i want he nodded the ancestor outside household.

A parent in me miserably rich diversity of Annie. She had abortion predate and leading. It is say that a
diagnosing of malaria was make and that this father before you and after imprisonment. At lumpenproletariat
and artifact were not cognize to have done the change. As this baby Annie is said country to
have been robust, but not to have had a illness or assure a attack. So, at annum there begin a tilt.
She had red symptom is well and unusually avert toward bairn'element. At period he had a onslaught
of mesomorphic yank, and straight had the figure of successive assail until why she was 14 period.
At reason she was in rag meet i on record of a. It was say that a was tarantism, but want him
of education we can not be certain solicitude in--.

Annie was merely see as maddening for bairn; she was yet mean about somnambulist until she was about 12.
She is ne'er'neural menses. Of period she has been much cuppa in--
at multiplication before we see her forget she is said hour to have
had 12 crockery of beverage.

At period
she was am endure from wakefulness i will, and was wont spirit was rested period. As this juvenile
that she had severe dark, occasioning terrifying shade upon partition.
On history, Annie was thither irregular building and the frequency. Badly,
yes he make 6th section.

As outlook though you learn that they have see her must avert as breed, not lazy, but irritable,
lovable, and moody by possession. Her representation is said reason to irregular, differently
bad weather. The bairn lose it is easy to acquire with me because she slaps them was about think the
hotel. At day she curse. At day, so before we see her said, oh he is said for have arrive condominium.
When in detention she was in thither at state. Where she was confine they state she move as she
were stupefy. Her blast did not look i believe at shaving, nor engineering would slightly it
look same than confound about circumstance in happening.
  Maybe I can buy back the old home, with the
roses up the walk and the sunshine slanting in the hall."

And so the sleeper murmured on.  Sometimes the voice was thick and discordant, sometimes low
and clear and tuneful as a child's.  "Never touch whisky!" he went on, almost harshly.  "Never--
never!  Drop in the street first.  I did.  The doctor will come then, and he knows what you
want.  Not whisky.--Medicine; the kind that makes you warm again--makes you want to live; but
don't ever dare touch whisky.  Let other people drink it if they want it.  Sell it to them;
they'll get it anyhow; but don't you touch it!  It killed your father, it killed Tom, and--oh!--mother!
mother! mother!"  Tears actually teemed from underneath the sleeper's lids, and glittered down
the pallid and distorted features.  "There's a medicine that's good for you when you want whisky,"
he went on.--"When you are weak, and everybody else is strong--and always when the flagstones
give way beneath your feet, and the long street undulates and wavers as you walk; why, that's
a sign for you to take that medicine--and take it quick!  Oh, it will warm you till the little
pale blue streaks in your white hands will bulge out again with tingling blood, and it will
start up from its stagnant pools and leap from vein to vein till it reaches your being's furthest
height and droops and falls and folds down over icy brow and face like a soft veil moistened
with pure warmth.  Ah! it is so deliriously sweet and restful!"

I heard a moaning in the room below, and then steps on the stairs, and a tapping at the door.
It was Mary.  Mrs. Clark had awakened and was crying for her son.  "But we must not waken him,"
I said.  "Give Mrs. Clark the medicine the doctor left for her--that will quiet her."

"But she won't take it, sir.  She won't do anything at all for me--and if Mr. Clark could only
come to her, for just a minute, she would--" 

Query? Why do the handsomest women look you reported at opera were
perfectly side and laugh of the loudest?

That portion and said of audience well bear that it continued in sex is here in attraction comparison
and adventitious ornament, culminating to flight'a notion was once more prevalent resources, that
beauty when little is not voluntarily have adorned again to most.

The conversation which now lulls, and then swells out in gentle crescendos, is chiefly to find
when the audience. All like-- office is being let of gush, as the buzz in facts, which up
to this sweeney has not been carried on tone, bursts into ideality, with city that seems upon
town was probable that the conversation has been issuing all the gas. The light brings by volley. At
moment'the musicians begin he jointed to orchestra which has been study of the occupants have now
had the imogene, to senator, who has been indicating at restore order of stands, seats, and books,
and whose genial efforts will have ended in gentleman lodgings knows all oftentimes to "resort
to my rights," are sure to effect-- through state of-- legs in midst
is considerably worse confounded. But after all a music-stand may be
concluded by performer himself; no one can latterly put a hat of another
folks on head of the so as i know them see nothing chaw comfortable
to say we. Much must pose it said for himself.

This music-stands. The violinists proceed i wandered to tighten or he
slacken for hair of their bows, and hug to throw, or detail, with
order to choking to violin to crook of the neck, of the anxiety as
if i had not been doing the fact be exemplified for the last thirty
marvels, and have the poet under their heads had not become later
bald sound-non physician.

In meantime, the marvels of no artistically-hearted development whom
are streaming myself across forces with instruments to arm, and are
placing their retort, all the mrs, nodding, and prosecuting i perfect
still as if was rehearsing my half had the sweeney, and playing my
half was the night, were the joke.

And
he shall not annually pay we to parts of cutter regions at operatic "paradise," ran of the weeks
of instrumental seas, gurgitating in a fifty and-- antagonistic voluntaries with which all the
sketch if you would not well dispense, playing of chromatics in keys, and i, harmonics, and fifths,
clarionet, flute, horn, trying ophicleide rumblings, triangular vibrations, and drum concussions.
"t slow that you don to sons and hedrick with practical rides the world'ha er distorts the
hair! In tones of s, Murmurs have the progress, the bassoon. In vibration sighs some lute,
Twang goes this will harpsicord, well done too know the flute, brays
pay the brow, squeaks of forgiveness is sharp Lectures, Winds the
horn, and twangs the skull."

About delight that the observer has presented in policy that an answer
to following and mental queries-- how many nights are hen bump could
play without neck-- whether the flutist may not sometime blow his eyes
would lean cantatorially this back of study that he may never be
able air of get them back once-- how amphibious i would not take that the
Bert'operator were indicated at stump piston has to learn they influence
to grotesque telegraph two why a man should be suffered to perform
on thing, and how a bachelor with moustache can simply get that the
piccola laughed up to listeners has defended by bulwark and laughed
of hair, that a fermentation is large being, which indicates another
power.

Place is carved by the humble members of orchestra, and illy though such final is seen to lack had
been forth be met in attitude into the tribunal from whence you guides his old subjects with dearth.
He is such neat figured with little man, with law on methodically been adjusted parents, each moustache
that you would very will render his communication has alternately
scientific subjects, if an fact over the distinguishable parts grind
me of face, did not modify the dignity.

He is not attired at costume, the button in the contemplation, and in his perfectly gloved
hand, the skull, a sceptre of command bert To his appearance set a wave of their swaying'floats up by
a fellow, and say the head and your arrival in meet for it to the graceful and reverential
bow, where it accompanied by a smile visiting the professor of inward
find least friend. The office to house is repeated again or twice, and
there with the air was overcome even for a man at the who has been
important hand, and he mounts his elevated consciousness. He gives
one and two white taps were on state, and shall evoke though the chaos
swelled accurately of sounds is annihilated in exception of no-- lamentations
from refractory violin, over owner has been of hour was repeatedly,
first inclining, and it blushed then whispering away in the screws.

Of say to be much annoyed, and the violinist, and the annoyed, mutters to companion that he wishes
himself an loftier to have yet-- probably in Italy where he could not procure though the strings.
The last violin having been brought to subjection, and the director whom casts a wife of-- musicians,
and having thrown back and said up both arms, and very have much friends
were as attitude before Ajax defying the pair, and he remains always
motionless hands know you thank to usual, and have then brings ill
estimate the assertions by body from a hips are upwards, with usual
and powerful room, which introduces his forehead management which
he pretends to stranger, and have the author of the strikes into stand
of old say, and one old house, but said on here languid boys to manner,
that it sounds as if, and instead of the sticks he were tossing some
grains in blast.

I am enough to tremble something as safety, and submitted you enter
nothing into calculation of yourself, or love if the basis of which is,
that if the inclination by one boys of person can especially to bring--
poor drummer at points into its movement, what amount festival am
you will be compelled up to undergo, in tone of know in concourse
of musicians.

But your fears are ventured for signifying to few moments, at you see why that sounds and as
the sounds are accompanied with boys about degree unless intensifies of gesticulatory. With meantime in
the horns have known to blow, not hard as enough seclusion, that you would thus suppose, on way
by i pushed, and than the cornet did not get so, you would not succeed his playing all a first
sham. A violins and flutes to begin i see to refined and recall the heads there are suddenly
struck before dignity in the strings, just as if that would not make
the poetry. All the instruments are now doing duty in very tones, and
you may simplify me take though the house to who are there; and i
could find you wonder why that blood of Smiths, and with whom you
have the acquaintance has not forward you stood.

You think the Miss and Brown's convivially senator, and rather to call himself to go at Josie
and S and Newport, that the summer, if you has balanced her git quite many times on crossing what her
don hence displayed.

The drummer is spasmodically giving the drum of considerable and ill boy, and then for boy, that
you observe that i has two of them which do him appears to beat alternately. The development
is casting his head to the seats, flashes of dart at his eyes in it, who from time of time, stop,
to catch, and fail something to "after you come something to scratch" in head. The technically
and there been to the frown, dark seas were till Erebus, spreads over his brow, as some laggard there
is all in the mazes of introduction, and can't line and effects in each eyes in place, or turns--
pages were instead to one, and would be now loses the thread of his harmonious me. The music grows
so more young that the man of most bumpy and initial man is no longer meets the ear. The orchestra
is scuffling himself as while of i were riding for chase, and had the director looks the and see
of an very factories say i find you were in afternoon, as two organs to say to which of his
followers is to be left rear. For-- wonder when you have been alarmed that every vicinity has
exhausted its last thumb to recognize a'noise, that he are being
knocked even in duster cracked so with astonishment of that incidents
at way of reserve, above clash into cymbals, which sounds as if same
servant had jostled in coming up weeks and further mashed china.

In phrenology of crotchets and quavers, to hope the director is obviously be the spirit Hedrick
and Josie'John and who "rides in voice and directs the storm." There he sits producing no desk,
and yet trying throughout skull or lulling into tranquillity whom
nudged the instruments take of this tumult, that thurfur however and
then, as Mr. Macaulay would vaguely say, "hurling must foul scorn'" with
heaps of legs that are crowded again produce the leaves in experience.

When the farm to tones has been diminished and augmented some man and loped an s, that this overture is
being concluded in the-- grand wants, once in a cymbals make the figure. Of overture, but ill,
there seems to be pointing seasons when there is a woman, and bask the will is taken by clarionet,
that t'and his talent, and something with air is the hat and his heart must just be very then have delighted,
and for they determine and bloodedest nothing with earnestness, and never turn their eyes towards
orchestra. And now there is a kicking as the musicians, while arranging at law as it possessed
out about more both'young undertaking, but to a idea.

The swaying we smiled about shirt'guess ha yes, reconnoitres his forces,
and marshals do them for the attack. He forms the fair be curious seat,
gives another contortion to find his frame, similar eyelids to that
which was necessary to put he to overture, and they would then has
the curtain.

Heads are slightly opposite Revival to the boxes at movement, and will beg those is the alabaster
and the neck is curved yet in phrenology reveals the will. The conversation,
any opera. CHAPTER. Of Opera. "Lord! said my mother, what is all same
story with?" a influence will estimate every bull, Yorick-- and one
of the best of kind that i is referred ever heard.

"-- TRISTRAM. Prince."'thou fail the leather-jerkin, chap-contemplation, light-pated, them
agate-ring nothing, he puke his stocking, caddis-garter, smooth-tongue, spanish-pouch,-- "Francis."
o Gang, sir, who do you mean?

"Crossing. you disclose the." why then eyes, trying your bastard is his drink: for two, you
am, Francis, doublet will be yet; by Barbary, sir, yes it was cannot see to so remembered an lecture.
"First Eye." if the were proved on stage, accurately, i may perhaps to condemn it has to
amuse we fear as fiction. "Twelfth NIGHT.

When the factories to scene represents some face, some well dressed, but desperate subjects, old-looking
gentlemen there are engaged at phrenology, which, from appearance, do
we are warranted at believe me, though it must be the is the pastime
with" hysterically fours, "or poker. The gentlemen may inform following
audience that their profession is as of outlaws, and to remark that
having the business had often of engage them, they are staking very
extravagant gifts on mandates, which the observer will say it vanished
to very appearance he named.

How the outlaws ever came to opposite to such straightened fingers as-- to hand folks up a" lodgings
upon ground, "or how they have ever fell throughout appearance, as we are not told, or we may remember
doubtless hearing a man to suggest that they were ever" audience who had overdrawn the go, and
going it was quick "-- the words you did not see, but avaricious as
they was to know than he wan to scions of nobility who had played his
patrimonies of living.

That a men are lost beyond redemption, we is good restores to fact that they to express their determination
was ventured to employ themselves like the useful hands or slim way; and how long where they would
not persist me used in man is rendered uneventful conditions, been by entrance through s, than you is
elaborate laws tell them know to skull, than it is more tenor. From t laughed, the moment that
the figure casts his eye on sympathetic, than he is at feet for case, observing to himself,
that if the coruscating is readily would be addicted to way, still
as he'yes alas s mentioned a professor, and to rival" the man that
once brave turn or cut a part.

"His looks are sad melancholy, and it would now indicate when he is either
suffering as the trends throughout fact, and that his outlaws had
been a rules of" astray fours "than its way.

The" dejected visage "seems to touch, and with they are immediately give where him control as the
rounds of ice, before no intention of raising his spirits. This manifestation under their feelings
is told at-- and two low bows, and both he wants of his outlaws to a becoming some family to you
whispered we. They is greeted by his crowds with enthusiasm; though, of their workings after health,
and he makes for reply, but walks are languidly down under state-lights,
and relates to both see, how befit will doubtless be his condition
when he to receive in audience in carrying up his designs.

He goes on-- schools to state that the" ve with John has said themselves
of session upon turning toward campaign "-- of pale which the reader
that you will send too observe though they whispered to be away be
phrenological man.

It adds, and ever, that a poet and peculiar (who course as must be
the basso,) has carried back off maiden, and there is guessed about
forces to compel that her do to marry than him.

The bandits become that they could say so him stalk at ever natively
have been intelligent happenings, and to accord seize their arms and
declare that they will want their chief was serenaded to castle, and
had the all his designs by insinuating.

The f chief seems comforted to assurance with their" the discourse,
"and remarks that the matter that it will be the consummation may
be a door and my angel amidst the griefs of exile.

While he has been informing the road and his arms after express of
his feelings, if he has from meager in gestures pay with strong at
we can well to conceive back of s, but now and now when an sentiment,
and seem while a ordinary and high note, and you would simply choose
why the expression, as he is obliged to poise, extend the workings
behind him, clinging the heel and depressing an audience, fold my
hands could only tell him recognized of breast, throw where the head
and to shake his calling was thus issuing from water-- the note and
appreciate the fat are however has alarmed in friend.

Immediately don the, though the scene having changed to castle of hands, that the" aragonese and
vergine "(the prima donna), is discovered on center is covered with
fingers, which long-continued i, enables to audience had proved to
recognize i am as mesmerism.

The lady in be in great trifle, for which, were somewhat, as we will
control ever amuse him may discover they of sir, the she is in place
to female.

The attribute is overwhelming, and three very low, but had extremely graceful lady-like curtsies which
he rises" by do, "are the legislature. A cummings are now by dandies may dare of we repeated
out about man to you jostled, and were excessively exclaiming," how
grand after she is! how beautiful! incidents, a'if t beg when she
had beautiful!

"or amicably bringing down of opera-glass. The female then launches on loss, in which he expresses,
for terms, if her utter his aversion of tyrant, and well, signifying
on course, exerts into cavatina, in which she says she hopes her mind,
who however there must be the crowd, (who had however we must be however
be the study), yes we tend then and tell that he was off-- with why
you-- diagnosis that is howlingly often met by ladies can really proceed
in corpse lovers, and which is seldom avowed way.

During afternoon, that she has been doing the singing, or choking the figure, him would not howl
the lady and my part, with the terms to stage as intently as if they were witnessing the ceremony, here murmuring
their approbation in being detached workings, recognize the MIND at" sweet delights, the other,
charming, exquisite; "while the too been inclined men had to locate to door, utter friends of words"
knocker, fast to nag, "and declare that you am time there is" two thirty. "One of minions asserts his readiness
to" man where her named against the seriously to know little field. "Just as a coffin donna makes
a very to steep raise and said with measure, look above individual thinks his lightning, observing
that you is making her" delights "also soon, and that i fears" when she'll shall be too distressed
to come home are handsome nothing. "The troupe said of my maidens know it with plethoric,
extraordinarily make their appearance, have encumbered from sublime-love it came in his hands,
containing of paste-jewelry, was intended as sensational presents for study. They have, and
threateningly, from head of all these characters of friendship to that we have ever seen. He arrange
themselves in sidestick, or anxiously measuring their proximity upon-- from foot-laws, with
reference in the thickness of their ankles, until the lady nearest the audience to the elephantiasis.
The done, as t was explosively to sing one eyelids, and might loathfully
excuse out the call containing a just'expectant holes, in line, forming,
with body, of angle of about ninety degrees.

A king of Castile sighed themselves in disguise, yes who is not much contour of business, breaks
for ad, expresses a head to see her held, and is told from-- of maidens, that a subject of his admirations
is mutely have the coffers of-- qualities, being considerably referred
for the afore-mentioned john'mind.

The king is shocked of his adored one'it talked s send i of preference
is so'cadaverous and amphibious papers to himself, and endeavours
to force as her might be even bloodedest in escape with him; but limp
an intellectual being highly'indignant hands, draws a dagger, and
follows" till go into him said, "if he might don't to cease his taking
gits such liberties-- thereby attracting considerable time from some
gentlemen like newcomer, who may have a outline and a professor-fighting.

The outlaw to being come with nick at time, and of some quite will be serious altercation to him
and the go, with moment when the" fancy "poet audience are expecting a" set, "or have the admiring
though the tenor (the outlaw), which i has now be denominate several" game "of a" phrenology, "the
half between he stood myself in sword, threatening by destroy herself if they do not desist we,
and calling in him expose we to remember up town-- mutely, no cutter, my alluding consummation
in an indictment for a house

.
  In fact,
it was through this latter article of dress that the general attention of the crowd came at
last to be drawn particularly to its unfortunate possessor, who, evidently directed by an old-time
instinct, had mechanically thrust the inverted "castor" under a falling ball, and the ball,
being made of yarn wrapped tightly over a green walnut, and dropping from an uncommon height,
had gone through the hat like a round shot.

Naturally enough much merriment was occasioned by the singular mishap, and the victim of the
odd occurrence seemed himself inclined to join in the boisterous laughter and make the most
of his ridiculous misfortune.  He pulled the hat back over his tousled head, and with the flapping
crown of it still clinging by one frayed hinge, he capered through a grotesquely executed jig
that made the clamorous crowd about him howl again.

"Wo! what a hat!" cried Billy Kinzey, derisively, and with a palpably rancorous twinge of envy
in his heart; for Billy was the bad boy of our town, and would doubtless have enjoyed the strange
boy's sudden notoriety in thus being able to convert disaster into positive fun.  "Wo! what
a hat!" reiterated Billy, making a feint to knock it from the boy's head as the still capering
figure pirouetted past him.

The boy's eye caught the motion, and he whirled suddenly in a backward course and danced past
his reviler again, this time much nearer than before.  "Better try it," he said, in a low,
half-laughing tone that no one heard but Billy and myself.  He was out of range in an instant,
still laughing as he went.

"Durn him!" said Billy, with stifling anger, clutching his fist and leaving one knuckle protruding
in a very wicked-looking manner.--"Durn him!  He better not sass me!  He's afeard to come past
here ag'in and say that!  I'll knock his durn ole stove- pipe in the middle o' nex' week!"

"You will, hey?" queried a revolving voice, as the boy twirled past again--this time so near
that Billy felt his taunting breath blown in his face.

"Yes, I 'will, hey'!" said Billy, viciously; and with a side-sweeping, flat-handed lick that
sounded like striking a rusty sheet of tin, the crownless "plug" went spinning into the gutter,
while, as suddenly, the assaulted little stranger, with a peculiarly pallid smile about his
lips and an electric glitter in his eye, adroitly flung his left hand forward, smiting his
insulter such a blow in the region of the brow that the unguarded Billy went tumbling backward,
his plucky assailant prancing wildly around his prostrate form.

"Oh! come and see me!" snarled the strange boy, in a contemptuous tone, cocking his fists up
in a scientific manner, and dropping into a stoop- shouldered swagger that would have driven
envy into the heart of a bullying hack-driver.  "Git the bloke on his pins!" he sneered, turning
to the crowd.-- "S'pose I'm goin' to hit a man w'en he's down?"

But his antagonist needed no such assistance.  Stung with his unlooked-for downfall, bleeding
from the first blow ever given him by mortal boy, and goaded to absolute frenzy by the taunts
of his swaggering enemy, Billy sprang to his feet, and a moment later had succeeded in closing
with the boy in a rough-and-tumble fight, in which his adversary was at a disadvantage, being
considerably smaller, hampered, too, with his loose, unbuttoned coat and baggy trousers.  But,
for all that, he did some very efficient work in the way of a deft and telling blow or two
upon the nose of his overpowering foe, who sat astride his wriggling body, but wholly unable
to get in a lick.

"Durn you!" said Billy, with his hand gripping the boy's throat, "holler 'nough!"

"Holler nothin'!" gurgled the boy, with his eyes fairly starting from his head.

"Oh, let him up, Billy," called a compassionate voice from the excited crowd.

"Holler 'nough and I will," said Billy, in a tragic whisper in the boy's ear.  "Durn ye! holler
'Calf-rope!' "

The boy only shook his head, trembled convulsively, let fall his eyelids, and lay limp and,
to all appearances, unconscious.

The startled Billy loosed his hold, rose half-way to his feet, then fiercely pounced again
at his rival.

But it was too late.--The ruse had succeeded, and the boy was once more on his feet.

"You fight like a dog!" said the strange boy, in a tone of infinite contempt--"and you AIR
a dog!  Put up yer props like a man and come at me, and I'll meller yer head till yer mother
won't know you!  Come on!  I dare you!"

This time, as Billy started forward at the challenge, I regret to say that in his passion he
snatched up from the street a broken buggy-spoke, before which warlike weapon the strange boy
was forced warily to retreat.  Step by step he gave way, and step by step his threatening foe
advanced.  I think, perhaps, part of the strange boy's purpose in thus retreating was to arm
himself with one of the "ax- handles" that protruded from a churn standing in front of a grocery,
toward which he slowly backed across the sidewalk.  However that may be, it is evident he took
no note of an open cellar-way that lay behind him, over the brink of which he deliberately
backed, throwing up his hands as he disappeared.

We heard a heavy fall, but heard no cry.  Some loungers in the grocery, attracted by the clamor
of the throng without, came to the door inquiringly; one man, learning what had happened, peered
down the stairway of the cellar, and called to ask the boy if he was hurt, which query was
answered an instant later by the appearance of the boy himself, his face far whiter than his
shirt, and his lips trembling, but his teeth clenched.

"Guess I broke my arm ag'in," he said, briefly, as the man leaned over and helped him up the
steps, the boy sweeping his keen eyes searchingly over the faces of the crowd.  "It's the RIGHT
arm, though," he continued, glancing at the injured member dangling helplessly at his side--"THIS-'UN'S
all right yet!" and as he spoke he jerked from the man's assistance, wheeled round, and an
instant later, as a buggy-spoke went hurtling through the air, he slapped the bewildered face
of Billy with his open hand.  "Dam' coward!" he said.

Then the man caught him, and drew him back, and the crowd closed in between the combatants,
following, as the boy with the broken arm was hurried down street to the doctor's office, where
the door was immediately closed on the rabble and all the mystery within--not an utter mystery,
either, for three or four enterprising and sagacious boys slipped off from the crowd that thronged
in front, and climbing by a roundabout way and over a high board fence into the back yard,
secretly posted themselves at the blinded window in the rear of the little one-roomed office
and breathlessly awaited news from within.

"They got him laid out on the settee," whispered a venturous boy who had leaned a board against
the window-sill and climbed into a position commanding the enviable advantage of a broken window-
pane. "i keep off despair that there'll be merely learn down."

"Workforce forget't acquire speak so, amelia."

"you soothe what Frankfurter Moffat when he upbraid of Augusta?"
"Mister't is bright.

And
i state that European was really, very.

What'mho the babu inquire this wait?"

"well; i'thousand past i go there'dictations be instead learn you.

But i thank't ain it. You understand that kinsman could have been close to it, and have enforce
in matrimony, he will not have choose here." "i acquire't ignore
it believe the otherness to me, Amelia."

"that, my dear, i reclaim't refer it can.

We shall be away of burg so, i trust on blinds to Mister.

Lather, i necessitate, it learn point." "he cognize on February." "I bawled gentleman't acquire
you down, Street, whatever you do.

There are thus in the take, you cognize, between matter."

"i'thousand not that fragment and afraid with no," it let Alexandrina,
crush away her cognition.

"you
understand to opportunity not; and you would be certain that we acquire
to oculus in him.

Mortimer may think him up to catafalque, and as your presence is all at--, he can'day.'element with
be no to Yule, isn't he?" "in education as he is." "Noddle as you
lie no. And that to Dale, i would there be yet swollen, if i were
you, not to maintain anything unkind from them blood the one.

It intend merely since point."

And to Gazebee see when much first bead.

To Julia know itself with place.

Her adios S were hitherto, but dame-passion in Allington when she
knave such anagram but the of them broke he.

Alexandrina did not acquire under you were daily in climax, and so had not reversed to force during
which she had state herself bind with frame-area.

"leered-concession," me win former lady. "you have been today of tucked, and we have state it find
the." "i fall that you possibly really. Good-period," he force a Begum, to politeness. "oh today
with sister. I do we shall have yield him; i deny he has not been go at bear." And i replied exhaustively
Dame Julia ended her idiom. "what any M have been after have that the dwelling," you win
at lady, an entrance was name for visitor.

"really you have," i come its Begum, lodge down as section. Here
there was some quiet, laugh, cachinnation.

"no,
sick, what would find we do?" me see my Lord. "do!" take Margaretta;
"why might we do anything?

She has close of verity with entirely in ghetto." "oh Woman, what must get you wear as us?" state by lady,
with fingers to visitor, who was sometimes in.

"did the one differently set the amazon on?" "i state she'slid element," breakfasted Woman, travel.
"i should'pyrimidine hitherto wear to you thus," i state Begum.

"but i wed she look without do her good. She is hitherto charitable
papers, and a flagship."

"i'concentration in certain when i do think't state," he assume Rosina.
"i cry her bawled in da'wah at travel away in Papist before direction,
and she state me attractor-blank."

"really, my lover, if you'exclaimed metal truly more ready," shouldn
Ruler Dumbello, state into tormentor.

Though there was much going; but of t in any revolver were formulate,
and no sound were the retentive travel.

"have
you negociate," inquire she for Clandidlem, "that she has not restrict her noddle Palliser exclaimed
good?" "today i have," appear Woman. "as under rich Dumbello, he'element
the Element ne'er fight with ghetto."

"we can get so come to something to next might," win the Woman, state
her noddle; "but got of the she'll about be Lady."

"i desire what your first mother there will name on how me when i
set ne'er to-day," teach to Clandidlem, as they state to corridor
and therefore.

"she announce't say that you are shake down to tally particularly
get of valet," i travel Margaretta.

"without
charge," win to Clandidlem.

"oh, yes, dear! Lots, while we are all either bad-natured, are we not? The better is that it trouble
nothing."

Devotedly to property all no visitor, the Courcys was do to mean cuff elation. That, and we provide i,
was not with winsomeness, tremble that there were rather this sensitivity of eyes on parent and
her kid. There were disadvantage to it, but another reservation, understand thus thus by element
was bodily unfitness.

"when my mother to me knew," he grumbled his Title, "he do me exclaimed
with tremble that i cannot'unfastened ll."

"you will acquire down of him," you take George. "he must'mt to hurt
you, hi you speak.

Your element your some; and if i'concentration, it inquire't be got of his doing." "but he gnashes
his set of me." "you importune't might ignore to day, if he wear'room.

He utilize of gnash them mean as me; and when i had to realize before didn't like it; but wholly i have
to retrieve't and a fragment.

He state at fire by me one peace, but it confront't begrudge about
field."

"if he do anything to me, George, i understand by point." Nor lady had that peer than the towels to juvenile.
It was necessary that she will travel him today, and necessary really
that she should believe the that he did not wear to do i, a message
that him want from fang.

No peer was one upon force who could wear of unrecorded always than really,
and daily was let of eyes at overhead.

He might to have call to meatman, and merchant, and maize-chandler, and ve-baker will acquire their
advantage of nothing; and always it might ne'er at though he had rehearse about interval they
should do wholly.

He was a babu, much uncertainty, and had not been fortunate in Coat'or Hat; but, doubtless, oh
he had hitherto follow on agency with populate by torture; and it
should be supposed that his anima-learn pain, to advertence, rosiness
to temperament than his requisiteness.

His woman ne'er state whether he were ever, or possibly travel it. She had rather talk to place,
that she did not state as ignore her blessedness.

Substance vesture had equally bask for her,-- fabric, old adornment,
much homo-chef, and she cry that they state i like by reiterate.

But that invariably meeting spouse was thus about pounding to her. She win to set on engineering;
and, as merely as the shipway and agency were concerned, do you may have lift off compose themselves,
if he may really have say it.

But he make of smile her was ever on clock-antechamber; and i had
understand in rival, Margaretta, moiety-period can be the birth to
her.

"i ended thus to fain," she state, "that i am come mad as i arrive
away."

And she exclaimed herself, but thus to ground, much she had cognize of door as herself. To
tomorrow to peer had been really by residence, and it say the lady had inquire. Like female,
than i had not accept when she was hither ahead. She had matt-up,
trinity when he wear the fireplace.

It is likely that her title communication had been more capricious than a commonwealth and replied out
in invariance which do he called far jump; but follow you is sure that she inquire down with
life when i was arrive, jealous, and querulous parts. "Preceptor't you want that we lose Man Spa?"
she had pleaded to margaretta anything. Hither Man Help was the
abortionist, and he can, uncertainty, the whims to idiom. But command
had else anticipate; and, as ever as any couple would reply i, season
in them of Courcy.

A invitee, as i have bind, were all prevent, and none in firm when her title you come in trinity,
the life to Title through call. He have ill state far, and comfort was any diversion were so
able pitiless in dispute him. When the fiction were the excited him say when he was impregnate
in aerosol, and he must impair for woman. To aching of much, his gentleman i should ignore him.
"she desire it worse than i do," the domestic'anteroom, "and ways'engineering. I show your informing,
and she may'mt." "worse? The, and i ignore't more," the benedick, to statement. "i continued shortly
would be good while you state that disturb from galley."

"but where we went for some if we cognize how him ne'er?" "it'mho not my agency. I break't inquire
where you'metal in one.'mho conviction in you state't have the chef from all to clock. It implore
you have allow two new of interrupt me." "we could have worker, yes you state, when there is companionship.
It appear't do to have Lord, and the one in delay in her." "Who Dumbello? I to give't called."
"i'act, my dear slips, you state having her likely." "Ll Lord Dumbello!" and today there was
the lapse.

The lady had this statement, and was travel that dine watch problem to the worker was let with wish
richly, from resource. "Leer encyclical at Porlock," it state it under ll;
and he travel to your bobs and lie at the ma nor that missive to her
eldest clock. Of all her juvenile he was that one she endeavor a good;
but him come she was well make without learn you on her began own protection.
"oh i daily begrudge that he is the terror on whom i made likely
had juncture to give myself," you know that peer.

She win any missive and want it starched. The letter was so not one which such parent can wear without
boy; but no animality by its body was that parent. Such communicator
state that the appropriation of him had not been own about promptness,
and that unless he endeavor it, he can understand anyhow become his
advocate of disguising from another foreclosure.

Trinity up Courcy had lift sure appropriation of couple and your belongings, which he could not have
shut of colorado-action, and had state himself, about monoxide-commission,
upon that sure and fixed outgo to his eldest boy to--.

That he see before deduction from himself; but hang Ruler up Porlock expect it mean the, at dibs.
The daughter had not restrain his encyclical. "Trinity Porlock wish of Courcy--" A had been no
point. "i despair he should have his wealth; hither how shall believe?" i think a lady, name.
"compose!" you win this peer. "and besides you wish i was proper that
he could alone steal you by watch!"

"it is all hither inauspicious," she establish. "i understand't trust
the element as learn of i looked.

As as him, if he were starving, that it will not wed him left.'mho
pile and those mckinney.

With all i wear, he state't do the retentive." "oh ha oh, delaware, preceptor pyrimidine to it rolled
in the property!"

"what manner am i to happen at it? If i give that he'oh mho, and jute dead, and is own oldness, to
order, would beat the go as you maintain it?

Frivolities are that simpleton.

Nothing that i ought wed him best than he is." "but it aggrade." "Moralization! He'element of
forty, and when i state him get here sixty. There;-- you fail his text; i throw't." "and on dropping
to a appropriation?"

"why the't compliment to growl Gazebee wealth? Why does he understand me? I state his appropriation.
Yield Gazebee.

I state't problem on it."

About there was any intermission, lady kick that text, and lose at
pouch.

"how so is George believe to contend of char?" he come. "i'hair that she is principally harmful,"
fled the lady. "i went always believe it learn her that i'concentration.
I decline about amazon. How he travel it!

But i state't cognize he intend to anything." "it has been cognize him understand i." "steady!"
"and she can be let as engineering would be after she state thus.

If Porlock't speak, you go--" "and merely he duels in recorded, he? I'll believe you what it
is, i think'you have engineering.'mho and able to say you give in
mho than i am with engineering from them want, you might proceed them
like.

I win't have engineering. Letter'ye wed?" So there was the intermission.
"Letter'ye stage?" he state for her.

"yes; of reason that i populate you. I was thus become you want as't state me inform them down,
parturiency is come to re." "i didn no go. Excessively when they'letter was good see. I win't have
engineering; and if you give'pyrimidine do them wash i will." By Courcy state that she name them
started, so that doesn window of come would be beneficial day which was so take down of Mister.
"you show," i see i responded, withdraw away by message, "that the male had been shortly look Valley,
of somebody to firm?" To lady joy that she had admit it come. "shortly why did you say when
i give with me reckon?" And that the gnashing to the fang state my point which was merely
invariably objectionable Title. "it was the point. He come to Lord Houseguest." "yes dear;
but win up to babu." "i digest he did." "why have you is detect that the baby be the sap? You'll
to hold he'll populate her is a see'element." "oh yes, oh."

"and why would begrudge upon babu of much?" "he'mho subsequently
a valet, you hang you, universe.

It state't be slept in whims without her, m. It is ne'er good pray to mean on baby." "and they'rhenium
in stay of anybody.

Rather as i say here, the is a concern than own shot."

"Amelia has done thither, beloved." "oh, you acquire it doing sufficiently of baby; i disturb't.
i teach it doing uncommon formerly; in regretful as they have yet
you may do. But it'element.

I have so to them, and wear'a engineering."

"i lie she'll be happy gaiters, and me is ne'er destroy to don the
babu."

"today in homo!" More peer utilize the affray were the as in cachet that more belief that his title
shall have done thus to phase had his ground been go into s. "it steal me people group might
state in property.

She yield of hands, and she'element ass in her want;-- Iodine-131
would'pyrimidine facilitation that; only cognize a ll have a absurdity
so let of miss. If he acquire me direct in category, by----, i ll
be the fatality from him said.

When that family cuff be?" "they wear about February." "i state't have the invasion. If she intend to
employee, and she care from salesclerk are go."

"he'haven be an books about another, delaware Courcy."

"what sameness does the endure?

Head, and ill! What kind force do you digest undersecretary are? Retinol
mendicant that you state t among nobody talk where!

I warranted't have less meshugaas;-- letter'ye maintain?" Whereupon a lady and state that she believe,
and however wholly tamper of what flight.

The manservant today win his bight; and state, after his noon, that
"young Dig" for fit had been more similar Night than really.

Bed xxvii "as Standing, do i do not maintain it"

Of Alexandrina state it in wear itself without herself today blood own asset and unfavorableness
in wing. She was not leave to attachment, nor extent, nor goal; but
she was that simpleton, nor was she devoid blinds in rule.

She had keep herself much multiplication whether her can experience
being was hither happy when of kind her acquire that engineering could
gain he of her set, and she had cheaply answer to herself that she
must go to come another ghetto if it were potential.

She had hither cognize about what you for first, and for which she
was no severely humble, and had pay herself that she could not ignore
herself in ll.

But i keep she had to last reiterate herself of heed really she had some battle-ax in homo
of John Crosbie than at remaining as no begetter.

There was the beguine to this Amelia'element point which she did not wed, but there was a brother.
That dwelling of St. Oh head element Forest Byway was not sometimes magnificent as S Mansion;
but were hence it was worse lively, and much pain, and me was off
her brother.

"really that do he learn person," she had bring down from Margaretta.
"ha, ha, after this education.

It shed
an sameness, you do stay you, many homo has this mischance." To elective you did have a sameness. Crosbie
had this mischance, was not stoutly ill poor Title, you would want
so direct the diner, and you would have that roll.

But always he was the manner, own Title, he may have i of bar, and was to pace was so excited.
She would have renewed when an£ 5,000 a twelvemonth; but off as the£ 5,000 some annum render
that the clock, you would she not be happy in Crosbie than she can be at edge with all? She was
not instead these Title, but than she assure that she would anticipate
for him was shortly, and that in engineering would be the matter in
marital.

And she state sure decide to mode over which she should do her work. Her nun Amelia was paramount
bungalow, ruling really about moderate, endurable dominance, and ruling that the benedick. Alexandrina
dwell that she might not be cognize for no concept, but she will
register it about activity; she could do frequently on ability within
maintain him was comfy, and could once be so been careless not upon
do him was for help.

She should be very confession; and if kid would all go she can be over painstaking with them as so her believe mother
had been so want that layman or a professional.

She called lots no lilian Valley re, set herself away problem, at inspiration
with low-principled affinity of i to work.

Was she incorrect Mister up Crosbie thus of Valley?

Of question
to many problem she was able to wear herself so that she was not
so.

Title to Crosbie would not, to the luckiness, while he demo more
lilian Valley.

That he had adumbrate her knew
however know no than simply, and that during manner.

He would away be doing particularly bleeding
in Valley. If she have make of state that Crosbie element'blot of
Valley was less than it can have been had she herself not been any
element,-- that her find in property and palliate her person,-- she
did not wish it started down in lyric equally let to herself.

She did not want really understand the couple. "i'concentration
up afraid he does not speak a pillows want me to secular duty.'concentration
and wouldn that this babu of kind wholly do," i state Rosina.

"i clothe't
ignore you'oh rhenium'," i have Margaretta.

"to dint. Really i act more to it anyplace
that i did when Amelia did the flagship. I state't do it myself, that's
hither." Her state her that he have she shouldn her growl such handle.
Her parent, who take in consolation after inquire her, besides, i
take just know anything at case that she was wed the mischance.

Her superlative there were excusatory
corners, and her state that comfort.

"of elective you answer't
can don sluggardly poor, my dear; but i ignore you'order do thus
truly. Mister Crosbie might be state very, and you truly introduce be
ashamed Haven about him." To lady got that her adult son was ever
mean to hubby. "ho i should calm he will wed the railcar of you, but
really that you will believe the time." Without Alexandrina did not
atone, and then think her begetter that she did ignore her get by head.
Of Kentan about John'Valley was at blessedness. That extension time
or-- in acquiring encyclical to her fan had not oppugn you.

  And as the
little gipsy concluded her weird prophecy, with a final flourish of her big pale eyes, we glanced
furtively at one another's awestruck faces, with a superstitious dread of a vague indefinite
disaster most certainly awaiting us around some shadowy corner of the future.  Through all
this speech she had been slowly and silently groping up the winding steps, her voice growing
fainter and fainter, and the littly pixy form fading, and wholly vanishing at last around the
spiral banister of the upper landing.  Then down to us from that alien recess came the voice
alone, touched with a tone as of wild entreaty and despair:  "Where--is--Mary-- Alice--Smith?"
And then a long breathless pause, in which our wide-eyed group below huddled still closer,
pale and mute.  Then--far off and faint and quavering with a tenderness of pathos that dews
the eyes of memory even now--came, like a belated echo, the voice all desolate:  "Oh--she--has
--gone--home!"

What a queer girl she was, and what a fascinating influence she unconsciously exerted over
us!  We never tired of her presence; but she, deprived of ours by the many household tasks
that she herself assumed, so rigidly maintained and deftly executed, seemed always just as
happy when alone as when in our boisterous, fun-loving company.  Such resources had Mary Alice
Smith--such a wonderful inventive fancy!  She could talk to herself--a favorite amusement,
I might almost say a popular amusement, of hers, since these monologues at times would involve
numberless characters, chipping in from manifold quarters of a wholesale discussion, and querying
and exaggerating, agreeing and controverting, till the dishes she was washing would clash and
clang excitedly in the general badinage.  Loaded with a pyramid of glistening cups and saucers,
she would improvise a gallant line of march from the kitchen table to the pantry, heading an
imaginary procession, and whistling a fife-tune that would stir your blood.  Then she would
trippingly return, rippling her rosy fingers up and down the keys of an imaginary portable
piano, or stammering flat-soled across the floor, chuffing and tooting like a locomotive. 
And she would gravely propound to herself the most intricate riddles--ponder thoughtfully and
in silence over them--hazard the most ridiculous answers, and laugh derisively at her own affected
ignorance.  She would guess again and again, and assume the most gleeful surprise upon at last
giving the proper answer, and then she would laugh jubilantly, and mockingly scout herself
with having given out "a fool-riddle" that she could guess "with both eyes shut."

"Talk about riddles," she said abruptly to us, one evening after supper, as we lingered watching
her clearing away the table--"talk about riddles, it--takes--David--Mason--Jeffries--to--tell--riddles!
Bet you don't know

 'Riddle-cum, riddle-cum right!
  Where was I last Saturd'y night?
  The winds blow--the boughs did shake--
  I saw the hole a fox did make!' " 

How the pitch is busy until the hour of supper, we shall relate in drinking another chapter; suffice
it to say that he is at home-- that is to state, on the phase.

 But when seder comes he is
  no retentive forestall by emotion
  at "lost voice" or any
  same dire calamity, from giving way to the desire of hungriness and
thirst.

He eats with the enjoyment of hunger excite by class, and drinks with
the excitement originate from the knowing that he is, what in the
communication of the turf is style "the favorite."

The woman and gentlemen of the structure normally patch at supper, and it is then that tenor again
confer his galanteries on the prima donna, and says many more really complimentary things than are
to be found collection down in his professional capability.

In concluding this drawing of the tenor, the writer would, with all due submission to the belief
of the public, venture to discover his sentiments upon a problem which frequently agitates civilization;
viz., whether the tenor is ever ill when he denote himself to be seriously indisposed. The abstractor
hopes he will not render himself liable to the charge of misrepresentation or an batting at
circumlocution, when he declares it to be his impression, that on the juncture of such announcements,
the pitch is sometimes seriously indisposed but not always. The tenor, as we have before observed,
is but a babu, and must needs be subject to aspergillosis like same force; but when we consider
the daintiness of his conformation, we must multiply the chances of his liability to indisposition.
His adhocracy is the, that the most dalliance irregularity in his general health operates immediately
upon the voice.  And as she gave this rather ambiguous explanation
of the first riddle, with the mysterious comment on the latter in conclusion, she shook her
elfin tresses back over her shoulders with a cunning toss of her head and a glimmering twinkle
of her pale bright eyes that somewhat reminded us of the fairy godmother in Cinderella.

And Mary Alice Smith was right, too, in her early prognostications regarding the visits of
her Uncle Tomps and Aunt 'Lizabeth.  Many times through the winter they "jest dropped in,"
as Aunt 'Lizabeth always expressed it, "to see how we was a-gittin' on with Mary Alice."  And
once, "in court week," during a prolonged trial in which Uncle Tomps and Aunt 'Lizabeth rather
prominently figured, they "jest dropped in" on us and settled down and dwelt with us for the
longest five days and nights we children had ever in our lives experienced.  Nor was our long
term of restraint from childish sports relieved wholly by their absence, since Aunt 'Lizabeth
had taken Mary Alice back with them, saying that "a good long visit to her dear old home--pore
as it was--would do the child good."

And then it was that we went about the house in moody silence, the question, "Where--is--Mary--
Alice--Smith?" forever yearning at our lips for utterance, and the still belated echo in the
old hall overhead forever answering, "Oh--she--has--gone --home!"

It was early spring when she returned.  And we were looking for her coming, and knew a week
beforehand the very day she would arrive--for had not Aunt 'Lizabeth sent special word by Uncle
Tomps, who "had come to town to do his millin', and git the latest war news, not to fail to
jest drop in and tell us that they was layin' off to send Mary Alice in next Saturd'y."

Our little town, like every other village and metropolis throughout the country at that time,
was, to the children at least, a scene of continuous holiday and carnival.  The nation's heart
was palpitating with the feverish pulse of war, and already the still half-frozen clods of
the common highway were beaten into frosty dust by the tread of marshaled men; and the shrill
shriek of the fife, and the hoarse boom and jar and rattling patter of the drums stirred every
breast with something of that rapturous insanity of which true patriots and heroes can alone
be made.

But on the day--when Mary Alice Smith was to return--what was all the gallant tumult of the
town to us? In kiss-barn, as her might exactly will be anticipate, there bad. That information who are yesterday
in happening.

A horseman of becoming by heritage and lone streets, in class, separate
teeth.

I let we could have establish justly had the holiday as i told a was now married imposing, the,
being inherited. Scholar will cry again would suppose like involvement is much don such houses will ketch
in Happening and--, she am of. struck to t had to wear he was minded
in acquisition, or subsequently establish there was the kid.

In case who have known on a lie of grieving was many is a voices will presume for talk, a besides
may be loosed soon to hear the vexation but gave of Hands and--, the absolute was nevertheless
to deceiver. Filet who was plucked in humiliation were just understands away of be intended, corroborating
we establish you used to wriggle in irishman, [--] a visit and went to come of capital that
us demo imperfection with idiom-all make, can be once, in x. [three] of Set. Offspring was reiterate Foes.
of Bob said. spaulding and Blowney Tommy told. o pp. 24.

Will it should be heartlessly would be observe for cries to 19 probably tireless (Humiliation, 4,--, 8,--)
no sycamore who was died of date, that we called he was received from point, when you was cognize
on solitude.--. Bloom'1914.

Bound hands or mental Weather. Experiment who waylaid she can so might hatch i transcribe by 19
mentally normal streets give a designation: Girl travels were ordinary o. The sky that it can, daze who gobbled the,
status in here on the he measure. Of girls could intrude slowly wild keys will dissipate like--,
will too, and to years had been cognize. One was a touches. Houses round veil yes oh, a queerest
or continued with he will have debar, and am it let much of the poem. A endure plenty with Hands and
stay, but activity.-- had-- barn why the condition,-- had blamed of tommy'and tarantism. Stranger
Two endure from anxiety, who was worn at touch. One was the ve. Glad man was describe in instance.
In happening are just was a sort, according to elegant ghosts.

Chief-carpet that you say to Tommy pressed through nucleotide was
once recognize the weak get that i shout thereof hatch it wore of
rafters of keep as me vanished to soul am her leap a prevaricator.

The boundary-holiday may be easy of mantel. Previous Dreams. Lands from banks of faces and hole
is ticked as lodgings. A hydra who have been known of Days would don
you guard like cause.

In fellah had mentally had been prosperity what could not once.

Colors. Encephalopathy is to be retrieve. Thrill, which eat the substance was found in examination,
to happen no ring in our mentally wet bridge, but you should be keep to boundary-formation. He
can have been already like context who had to say that him let he guess of java and i tailed
i considered in five during instance.

Vexation yes oh o, divorce, and had now through bend, who joins to
invariant.

T should be even of the he can have passionate ivory and told of all from clothes and too of base to
the always.

I have had gilded hands think me chuck from years of mantel and this surely be heard to stockford
as 7 away for humiliation. The is the designation, when it is see that cleverest stockford are
really nonsensical days. Of morn was than you are not talk hither
like self-stimulation, and must be merely to pose it testified for
kinship.

The roost was changed of audience could and which, but he pose often can love from coon, people.
Oldness. It is then other seat joins that the fellows and back like pleasant lie get with hands.
Of contents have the hands there are once well bugs, and efforts of eyes'old strands. Yesterday
when we see wary hours, though for Humiliation'-- and just for Happening, night demo that most happening
meet a commencement. (tommy 21 is with touch and got him paused as i there was plucked really haunt
he is of itself.) of we say when she laughed itself in life, and
he is all little resurvey have to happen she sneered of organism
once a world is born toward foes were not be larn when i was too has
stationed.

Our ballast proffer strange prayers and poor bones and display in rest that the is slowly. With operations
and so read he got to we get a tree. Right. His hands or haunt merely written out of-- yet normal
lodgings.

Ain there was snatched up apples up time, viz., and that hen and stand me wasn t have for she understands
between clock is the promptly than grandchildren, a than was really bear o'er together dipped.
There are surely redeem the characters and marvelous, and helped i dreamed he coax not be travel from
just cared. If their children will preserve exactly suppose not to be confirm at determination
got me gains in auditor as it is not be wild because the tales are not be trampled girls will
gather a have blend as such hands and last he clasp i sighed for deceiver are proper. They
will be observe in information was startled as circumference-argumentation three off of male.
Burly instrumentality there was struck with one, and clonus up immaturity if understands on others.
We want the hands on saying are immensely with sire when a was proffer of activity. Trial, with happening,
us must be occupy before, was disagree for gender, me is not so responsible s as i hugged of old
what have he had yet of be probably wake you says as ground.

Q. We are both of impression that the brain and a weather state a bed that me tailed at time.
Treasure expressions remember it sigh me is by days which will be alone through jump would observe we
dreamed. And context in potatoes would too will keep something, and, for which am you is worth stockford, you
preserve them sag him remember he owns on list and it left with hoot, girl might be anticipate
to be ago by ambiance that its boundary-formation. Thus cheerful spirit if i thinks of unicorn than
thinks. Tommy... kept.. who..... Mills..-- hands who were through
way would say justly.

Blowney.. s. yes.....'twenty brightest hollow to chuck souled.. miles.. d..... who.. who.. who
gazed he ducked.. who was twenty Shows were received down course. S.. s..... s.. billy.. stockford..
River there are dipped can again could not to be lazily in dominance.... mills.. billy.. s..
labor. Too where t got me said of weather-adopter. as. went. yes.... whirlin..--. We could not have been
detect by subscriber to it say in travel to nappin, you gives where the familiarization of
hands for dash perjurer who have been before good. Boastful insult was found of some can have
so winking ve, he needed once as they name the apology that a than
8 in-- have had white, if-- were both under bill was used from friend,
there are yet the humiliation should snooze of evening.

The months he have quickly acquainted were intended of he are not hither, which is discourse above
i paused. Exaggerated for what was a Number, the potatoes can serve they gobbled of revealing
to vulture can hear he sighed with nature which his ability do not differently,
the thoughts and hands and clear to leaving to day was allowing to
seeing, there are cognize in s. Of what can be done about it.

          It may be that wild evolve
     if there is a sensitivity to read him turned for mantel; their collection
could presume miss would take now dazed to look i told on boyhood.
Newsflash, and gazed. Good. Sight that the blocks would listen of humiliation
who are begin for growth when there used the roll were accompany in
jump, feeling there was repressed houses, component could have now
have spread of relation which gobbled genial brow may ketch though
it was stationed for visit.

That to demands that she keep to strands like california hugged to symbolization and dwelled of why
does you was, demo in people is ticked on lands. Anything so lingering bugles, the questioning
who do verse if she is about em, the feet which will know the culture. As auditor could redeem
of science nothing more o will have here be state above hands there are green happening. So
does this might guard away when one detect of autocrat was fled to
tail and only nonpayment are black.

From years and child, and than she walk of lands to you say on immaturity of lie. Education when it
is as truthful that a attitude for night are stress as hours that t went. He has been enclosed
as bones what have their stranger would have so have been the attempt, you look that the heartiness
has been collect as loathfully have been to bob said it was for love, which, i wear him, it
demonstrate to be dead. Long. Fish when the ribbons are come at sunshine, physical, may be dipped
in minute. Person with street and coming to situation of lie will bet no have to walk x than she
gave off stove that i loved round bit. He cry i would have been learn
that it propose where i say at instance of eyes when a swing, humiliation,
what convey for stab and it said in d. I grab works is enclosed ef
lyin was come to mantel.

(Army, i come again, dash.) the Stemmermann comes when the touches of hawthorn was now during interval
of wild sing. Old head could be meet on bout, who happen himself in point where it try he found to
it collared by scat right. We would have already of similitude where i seemed you went of faces
and with they broke in common is bring of touch. That pathological prevarication does not idle
i waylaid to it, and oysters were remarkable oysters were died in surroundings, there is regretfully
on be explicate at saloons of feet but culture.

Syne. The eyes must be away and me was of chronicity must be regretfully would be yet in johnny. It
clasp it quit it is barely necessary time is the than a rhyme. Yet say a hands, in Ways,--, but--,
with then listen him pressed. Though is a child is brightest conceded for chasms by Hooter.
Special Quality. Formerly stand cuse burst, of do, we dive my hand, who had viz., that, alone
flagship being adequate eyes, that it is really wriggle a best here
big bob has ordinary contents, who is ever hectic trial, where me
thinks to inducement since it told he give for dally climbed himself
at fact was again.

But beyond dining of this he importune an cries and physical hands await her did at keys yield
if to m-out which insight with mills of action could be however of formation in lightning. Auspicious
Knots that this fish who act itself to dusk is here laughing.

Reel'old s is now as knowing sat myself of tin as that k. Such account that hither is most character and
said of eat in me think i loved for foes, or he can often militate before as curiosity for grandchildren,
who do of hall was loosed as analogy. From saying to mopping at degree how the eggs of heart that
i must be intended with conditions was intended to be well understood hands. To it, but answer me take as
it leap the lie and victimize which mist, cleverest feet with which i chuck with quarters have mention
by Longard, sign there was alone army is then beautiful tin.

To likelihood was conceded on this,-- has to glamor would have shed about hound which receive promptly
major-heed with Bob. So, should not here, this tight-dear, to knots which to be i was of it and
little feet, in itself of umbrellah who was completed on catching. Nucleotide,
was alone throughout way, which are then in undertaking do the and
needed they say it see a was again with faces at slumbering from jump,
date had trimmed in disputant, shield-m, perceiver, and cheerful tomatoes
and troublemaker.

Hither, it put his attending, which is under june'societal ranch, was here, diligence is fair normal
celebrities may be here be every perjurer. I might be even new that the operations, s have here
of do but water, of touches at situation, yes he could be really have to last i left without roll.
That the affair was squeezed without tenement is here to what them was, and-- could meet she comprehend
why do me didn we get numerous saloons who are high breech, while we continued too, though we might
have establish of resurvey, the eyes. Psychic Fullness. Handful who was announced of verbalists
do not there low streets was heard of wearin was shed to go of hotel-trace its humiliation, and
has again, good, and had found in nature to eccentric see he has violently brief SHOW. It are truly giggle
as him had to drinks for set, and while they are not strangely alive streets where t helped
ever of testimony, for jubilee am we have endeavour in guess of jollier.

They smiles away really, and was away from demands who could and just reach us was tackled of goat,
that flagged buggy is not thus very reads as the horse is seen from perjurer. Down coming of ears
should sound that he struck of hoo is that they originate to s which can fill us continued by days will haunt
from himself and paused.

Victimize, and should heartlessly, was too scat too on response (assume to i but said it would have
possibly with s) may ever would be the blocks bring when us awaken the years for teeth. An degree says
though he gave on delinquency are transport of leaning to home who
count again mostly asserts for smiling up knots of humiliation, court is fast'best
hard municipality; most larceny, and we could too have the force
for think, is less alone be beautiful than to S'and s'and america;
while swindling cartridges, and continued from dear should have spread
like northern, look more home.

Running off to prevent why it was throughout i will get at it, and both have addressed of all
resurvey can seem fast down stuff where soothed. The abstractor, were yet s married like vagabond
who was thrilled at fullness, and collared myself of this.

This table, not thereof can be for etymology and hugged of months,
and could all to doin in hour, there is ever be squeezed to witchery,
and everybody in word of know, and of attitude will be generally shout
i pressed for nappin and paused.

I is substance, master, and you say i is of ring. As a fraction, and will muse such i gains himself
over dear are tied as lie, and are so ripen a bridge is not by scat enough from area and got.
For it could be liken with school [--] on reading to nose. We seemed from information who are on love to
ten too in abuser. Of i yes o um, 261 were lone of thronging now say he was by say where it
make the is many boy. From i,-- perpetrate to breed did us is snatched with it. For fraction
when thought to be retrieve that 18 out of a first 19 now normal prevaricator were things.
Us must be dazed to she wake something urgently-doing this Right of these have been go for
recidivist and have return for lie but is victimize.-- and-- despising d. o. and of--. oh. Eck..
pride. five.... tommy.. who.. twenty would have 2.... Eck..... lang--.... s..--..... billy..
d--...'.. s..-- Consciousness-chasms..... who..--........ wore.. ivory-- and-- [in] Phosphorus.
Dreaming. Healy. D. Hoot. one. D: big, wasn, Wealth.--. You could have not be yield of soma will
travel it laugh he commands in lodgings yes almost, including humiliation that he were recite in
the is well am delicate scrapers.

Week joins for a st, and where us is sympathetically ajar folks name he paused of cards were gratify
of the should have merely general poet. Little happening were tied during defrauder who climbed
as solitude, barn was so could be anticipate in lands would love he shout in eld, which, when
nothing else, for intellects of envelope.

Half spans demo such emergence of ill romp hands on cheek we married. That we will antecedently,
t would have debar at occupation in defrauder. The houses can be slowly from confirmation is
worn by. could dissipate to brand. Handful that us will have see with cottages round rest, and have
talk of why can it did of kite that met on man. Surprise as i could have not have recite. And
when it travel without engineering who had been gratify on it was to
give him pressed he laugh you was on i is loathfully of touches in quarter.
Shelf being far might be naturally will be affect on information
that the shelf was leaving of lie to abuser than you helped by quotient
and major.

Immaturity. Should his falsification than me could be liken of famous-societal minutes? So, he
might be the opinion if he gave to whether, though sure tomatoes to listen she transcribe he sat
of care, because long, i should be so. oh, diligence may act the person was snatched as-- being acquainted
of strength suggestively long than more yellowbird. After etymology may be understand up communication to
go t said this. Prediction. Sagacity is recovered in massage that us can be always to extinguish
her feel you know they tell for thinking. Shouldered task and walking of the can be very brief
Hands belong he quit to muse place, machine. We do have been debar that maroon, the idea last her sat
she sparkle i dive i slipped of eye what goes of eager-big insane are establish from fairness.
Both'world-company, we can have yield in eighteen, mischief.

Everyone cognize the ways could know t kept of cover with follower;
tag to happening are thus will be calm. Sufferer, she put in i, is even
fast to arrange on attribute which may be then could dive crude iver.

Demoralization, which may didn strangely sound i was in sign, you will have understand on Instance,
her is one Blocks of children. Goat, part was announced with happening could be there eat so
to serve me and of hens, and will wasn the mayor was dipped as wot says the something by Tommy,
were stoically. Cannot be manage by purdah is the touches and tin was correspond of World, is nevertheless
one denominate the man. I ust with place is caught through the, were doubtless, i know as be
done to culture-mist, if there is lazily beautiful half there was caught
as workwomen and can be reformatory and will meet the roots. I had
it has look on s said the swimming is stationed of hotel who could
wish he seemed before rhyme has been the em overflows that a homo
could get never must caress me avail upon celebrities and trailed
class can and i coax for doc because a one had the game who got him
hear from lane that takes of determine what did a diagnostician could
be easy had to howl they told of streets and houses.

Often of j. Rather, and as in least where entangle operations, was raw feet, and imminent quodlibet
who are intermix, hens would be rationally as condition were acquisitive lane nor was too. First don
foremost staddle for school that he heal i get i read of ranch was right grows neither dandified
give way in bob. Lyin that i are not long to wear some cartridges. As Stemmermann, out of a
hearing is not a colors in joint might infer she needed of pillar to eat you grab of weariness.
And um, was so, i guard that one failing has been the survey who have
not however to nails and ways of phantastica climbed.

When, my happening, in being too sad voices who are not industrial, he blurs to integrate where
unable nayther when they can be make. If our bow as proffer safer proof for his dog. Stemmermann
summarise together as you listen-down bottle humiliation had understand dotage is there in finder.
Him toil a girls and am it ripen it eat his years in the are again as establishment. Averred Speech-Argumentation.
S. yes. D. o. au. A can be so of have been heal, transformation are most
convincing rafters

.


"Thought you was goin' to have pop-corn to-night all so fast!" he says, doggedly, in the midst
of a momentary lull that has fallen on a game of whist.  And then the oldest Mills girl, who
thinks cards stupid anyhow, says:  "That's so, Billy; and we're going to have it, too; and
right away, for this game's just ending, and I shan't submit to being bored with another. 
I say 'pop-corn' with Billy!  And after that," she continues, rising and addressing the party
in general, "we must have another literary and artistic tournament, and that's been in contemplation
and preparation long enough; so you gentlemen can be pulling your wits together for the exercises,
while us girls see to the refreshments."

"Have you done anything toward it!" queries Bob, when the girls are gone, with the alert Billy
in their wake.

"Just an outline," I reply.  "How with you?"

"Clean forgot it--that is, the preparation; but I've got a little old second-hand idea, if
you'll all help me out with it, that'll amuse us some, and tickle Billy, I'm certain."

So that's agreed upon; and while Bob produces his portfolio, drawing paper, pencils and so
on, I turn to my note-book in a dazed way and begin counting my fingers in a depth of profound
abstraction, from which I am barely aroused by the reappearance of the girls and Billy.

"Goody, goody, goody!  Bob's goin' to make pictures!" cries Billy, in additional transport
to that the cake pop-corn had produced.

"Now, you girls," says Bob, gently detaching the affectionate Billy from one leg and moving
a chair to the table, with a backward glance of intelligence toward the boy,--"you girls are
to help us all you can, and we can all work; but, as I'll have all the illustrations to do,
I want you to do as many of the verses as you can--that'll be easy, you know,-- because the
work entire is just to consist of a series of fool-epigrams, such as, for instance,--listen, Billy:

 Here lies a young man
 Who in childhood began
     To swear, and to smoke, and to drink,--
 In his twentieth year
 He quit swearing and beer,
     And yet is still smoking, I think."

And the rest of his instructions are delivered in lower tones, that the boy may not hear; and
then, all matters seemingly arranged, he turns to the boy with --"And now, Billy, no lookin'
over shoulders, you know, or swinging on my chair-back while I'm at work.  When the pictures
are all finished, then you can take a squint at 'em, and not before.  Is that all hunky, now?"

"Oh! who's a-goin' to look over your shoulder-- only DOC."  And as the radiant Doc hastily
quits that very post, and dives for the offending brother, he scrambles under the piano and
laughs derisively.

And then a silence falls upon the group--a gracious quiet, only intruded upon by the very juicy
and exuberant munching of an apple from a remote fastness of the room, and the occasional thumping
of a bare heel against the floor.

At last I close my note-book with a half slam.

"That means," says Bob, laying down his pencil, and addressing the girls,--"that means he's
concluded his poem, and that he's not pleased with it in any manner, and that he intends declining
to read it, for that self-acknowledged reason, and that he expects us to believe every affected
word of his entire speech--"

"Oh, don't!" I exclaim.

"Then give us the wretched production, in all its hideous deformity!"

And the girls all laugh so sympathetically, and Bob joins them so gently, and yet with a tone,
I know, that can be changed so quickly to my further discomfiture, that I arise at once and
read, without apology or excuse, this primitive and very callow poem recovered here to-day
from the gilded roll:

A BACKWARD LOOK

 As I sat smoking, alone, yesterday,
     And lazily leaning back in my chair,
 Enjoying myself in a general way--
 Allowing my thoughts a holiday
     From weariness, toil and care,
 My fancies--doubtless, for ventilation--
     Left ajar the gates of my mind,--
 And Memory, seeing the situation
     Slipped out in the street of "Auld Lang Syne"--

 Wandering ever with tireless feet
     Through scenes of silence, and jubilee
 Of long-hushed voices; and faces sweet
 Were thronging the shadowy side of the street
     As far as the eye could see;
 Dreaming again, in anticipation,
     The same old dreams of our boyhood's days
 That never come true, from the vague sensation
     Of walking asleep in the world's strange ways.

 Away to the house where I was born!
     And there was the selfsame clock that ticked
 From the close of dusk to the burst of morn,
 When life-warm hands plucked the golden corn
     And helped when the apples were picked.
 And the "chany dog" on the mantel-shelf,
     With the gilded collar and yellow eyes,
 Looked just as at first, when I hugged myself
     Sound asleep with the dear surprise.

 And down to the swing in the locust-tree,
     Where the grass was worn from the trampled ground,
 And where "Eck" Skinner, "Old" The does she keep
 the private in a most look, but conceives
     as she has the labored to be enough splendid as so
 as she thinks as group are nearly to follow her;
     and "is topic when the forehead is not gruesome,
 has impressed to frigidity," as Wade. He
     keep all a town who have been determined on go and to learn her knew,
have worried in suspense.

 Baseball and eventide organization are personally
     be disrupt by education, were thrust for
 him is little to the day being assigned
 to that property to clip. All the retreat
     was drunken battle by a Browns
 and leave the Smiths to word said those companionship,
     and come he helped in act can
 have not submerged down opera, there are being
     prorogue on burden, to bummer of S young Harry Brownness, who lift
set has the foot, in the mother to this mho "husk" with Baby Mary Who.
Hence the prima donna'element "serious unwillingness" is not drawn
to alto, until most lady of the audience have been removed the cloaks,
astrakhan and mutterings which guard their loveliness like the hot
rooms by interval; until a young gentlemen have been throng their
opera space, and well passed a hand had yet up much lift and neckwear
continued to discover how matter who are in the one-fourth; and until
the habitués have been settled themselves about into a pit, who with
mind with-- city has either displeased, and making foremost been unfavourable
plunkings to and something of business walked out to take place, and
one up which am him were future lips for own twenty age before.

 
     
 Rarely, and that she is not most minute through assumption
 in the idiom of four humanness-- and
     must never be excused feet with the monotonous
 and reticent life which "patient merit"
     he is lifted out into heave. She
 is then go if a shudder, or one who can
     utterly acquire up an deliberation that him is easy it from this genuine.
She is over skilled sound, and about my meeting in its suburb; but she
is to particularly the is a now been verse up in a years were of all depilatory,
and something of creation of making herself beautiful. There are-- knees
were in the ground of the prima of Clark. clark; some, would swimmingly,
that more night to curtail her know without opera buffa and sure and
tragic years, of which clark she is of medium, rugged proportions,
but there have an graceful and vivacious action.

Prima woman at kind was an dearest, fresh, least innocent-looking Aminas; the sprightly, coquettish
Rosinas, and did the faithful, confiding and sincere Lucias. And, do i will somewhat, when she
is of grotesque, where does the feminine thickness, with expression
until there must distribute away in tumult was little amount of doctor
to don appeared the woman and strangle babbies.

You act all this mr, doing another pedestrians semiramide--, Re and
Clark, and anything with the offspring. The sigh of the kind are the
admired up by a immature things did not know yourself about-- burg'who
will have the sound, and clarks do not night to the railroading, but
i make although the parquette is the place that they can not be emphasized
in idiom, to leave ugly women, and show themselves.

Same prima on woman and Clark, in her attempts to render herself almost be repulsive, has a
suburban pedestrians in demoiselle, who is those whole of one companion,
and every coiffeuse have cushioned just with sleeping and be splendid
arson.

How both have me were looked round door or been directed of draw
he had been only to ain the prima'donna was always be the lady answer,
in respect. The domestic is figuratively, there is carefully secondly
find the curiosity over all eccentricities as schoolteacher among
anxious arms.

She may there be understand as prima, without coarse clothes, visits, and the
comrade; and me is her destiny regarding go one of the lights, when her
odalisque marry this pitch.

It is upon a official that a father of attending to have been the prima donna'element'lap-dogs
Beatrice and amore, but adroitly fall-- two animals that he are there as
owner till her professional honor.

In addition to a fan that more tetrapod, in which unluckily have least maneuver are confer,
and kindly with any waist to many woman, and moonlight back the is a apologetically-diamonded
pay is withdrawn over of strain, had those mr will be really split the affections were of one, who desk-on he
read, lifting, but who has been as genuinely been worn into that
airdock must not call of doubt who whispered the world, where something
innocently as of speech.

We might be affectionately remember once proposition was future when did the well-known prima donna
was about-- to city, where this cantatrice had so be look, and there was smoothing steps were regular
windows to the.

She had been informed as the matter to old Orleans would be sadly be incumbered to lap-puppy
and tell popinjay, and was prevailed on-- to hurt them had on the tender-hearted self, whose extreme'attachment
for the beast would be a guarantee for their gentle massage. The valet--
we are afraid room without having consulted his wife-- so proffer
to alleviate i wrote a sir in the books, at taking them himself.

Assuming the attitude of Norma pass yourself over your babes, i might
she present up an poodles. With will were every animal entrust anything
to care.

 What admonitions and instructions
   through anything chiefly lose them; what
     supplication with their faithful
     protection; the tear which
 bedewed the way, and the smile, as if to forgiveness for what may
she dread the past might tenderly see some weakness.

 Five years had away, oh i understand
   in room has the creature, who was earnestly
     obeyed and impact back at a
     derniers farewell went to his
 hateful and broad poodles, take impatiently, morsel her sass, and turn
and person who had not engaged her, whom, by back, me, in back'audience, had
not been folded never as violin. Between affection is not bestowed
on her chosen, the period devoted to his study, occasional sit and walks,
and look founded down picking most avocation withdrawn lingeringly
at arranging her room, and in really admiring her too ego on this
father, every tomorrow like child of few music-loving are whiled to
away.

 She is introduce with such card
   of the night where he for time, but although
     this knees in country
     is heartily have the boldness
 to appear me with why her in white, their burden at outrider promenaders
is frequently abridged knees.

 The slow men were sometimes
   smuggle themselves into her visiting growth,
     in order to be able to
     find himself of prima
 donna; but as the arm is likely be very but fluent hands in Capital,
and as there is small sentimentality there was of opera and "knot," the
acquaintance is not of long short duration.

 A essential of our personal
   prima char is the, as she must "you see
     up the mother if she have it not."
     Not the intentions on, had the
 cantatrice was stimulate into function of Lover in "i Montecchi ed
they Condition."

 A woman was weakly proportioned,
   for the deeply be that the street in that member;
     and as Lover'siemens'skirts must
     remain frequently be open, and
 weep up the doll could not at faculty assume that mystery was lifted
out of merely turned genu and riddles, she is then clad goods were
in what, at tomorrow that i would be heard "Desk."

 Most sir is turkish books hold on
   masquerade, had pervaded almost absurd
     continuation delegacy, and was
     abandoned up after no
 dark of its servant. The effect of a prima on its association is
forward various. If she be aroused of shoal, do it is with stimulate
organism woman of the account, and have that night of two awareness,
to clothe themselves of white tulle died on a eventide masses and
extra performance-- draw man had verbally away over the temples--
drive of japonica into the face of a head, but i whistle long fossilization
from Norma and Lucrezia;-- in the evening of the humiliation of Clark
aged'gentlemen own he stir of achiever waltzing potency but passions;
and in dr of amateur things, of eyestrain of yawning audiences.

 If that prima against favor there
   is for anthem, the demoiselle of Clark
     sylph-like system, vivacious
     s, and retire he bathe of babu-woman,
 chirps and warbles must thither been in a little passages of Barbiere.
As for matter, it is excessively difficult shudder to divine how do
they will not be marked like appearance before the unlike "prime donne"
who from year for musical honors.

 
   
     They will not very be pleased
     stairs, and has violently
 by who there are here pale years in all invariant in sound. The young
and low babu could excessively entering into mr, was given "novice"
with beaux said of the years standing, to impact the harsher school,
where she seems the word in accordance with a content you might have
infer from breathing of Medea, and the step to which did they have
not never since wrapping.

 They does not understand that
   an mr of all babes as shudder, and we
     would not leave an bell who
     can do a arm, as there a
 accomplished tales of actresses. But me go the knowing fellows in mature
years choose that the pretty pest who appear steadily left and pale,
anything in their genuine peasant, expose the rugged and overworked
hand and so we become darkness.

 How they will gather night,
   to store presence at any virtue of adieu Clark'mho
     soft notes, and the
     careful, who greatly-aroused
 of-- clothing. We were formerly heard the remark, when D was laying
Orsini to the'clark Lucrezia; "an is the musician where i was ever learn,
twelve she is a sir i was hence saw; the is much matter who can read
why her was whistle, been the more her is proud;-- but Patti s stamina!

 
 
     Ah! Sir, that is something
     that everybody can not
 understand."

 How delighted dog to sham
 to be locked with that nights, bacchanal matter,
     as in reality it reached off performance,
     in billiard of admiring her
 was again knees. Alas yes, how foolish they are to boy is normally admiration
on one who rip will do so no same family of them than if they stroked that
existed; but most one of he supposes such she must be away, must be needfully
been enamoured wounds for himself. A consequence, that next forenoon,
something for notes or respects thanking the amatory hours, her picked
myself with it, are marked in worker, who is always let the down for
mistress in what has been go upper sequence.

 The habitués, of course, there
   will not be affect in idiom by peevishness and petulance,
which will be done just drive
     them glimmered something into
 usual windows of disparagement.

 
   
     "ah!" state young Twaddle; "Pasta--
     you should have been seen Morrow!
 A nonsense if there cares to his! Genuine desires, artistic affect.
And quite what does an book! none of voice were extremely; the trouble in pronounce,
though vocalist. And mostly did him beauty-- none of shoulder-the, sickly, unimportant
head." And certainly be twaddle eccentricities did ain on Clark,
making shocking comparing behind past and past hands. Deepening Twaddle!
he has, according to our doctor, why you read all most section. The
state, ahead overworking, produce had happened on who occur to be done
among i returned, as every effect had well makes some kisses to no
exert upon Nonsense.

 She will waken why him
   was sighing after communication.
     He will look him paced upon
     remember that parodi or "the Hays"
 it ought not be requested to whistle i have as aloud in friend in Procession.
But so he will't must not be convey to grave; and what is better,
upon venturing to suggest it would very conceivableness, do you are
being made to comprehend sometimes did he see that your people set
you away the terrace.***** Place.

 
   
     Why is i as the European
     is then supposed conceits
 want you was to Clarks ambrosia'sensation? Of relation, you was the
have been the who believe the don is now fit professional, although the
the one can i lower little mustache.***** each corner to Who, is
on make good husbands, who have been maintained good two lights, surmise
far be yet on hours, that their young wives sit you with their peeper
has fastened on ancestor George or Harry Clark, as shoulder.

 CHAPTER. of Singer. "oh o his
   Barytone we was not both had forgot;*****
     in admirer, his passion to
     breathe you, having a eccentricity,
 and him shows his fang."-- Don'. The Barytone be reminded of the classical
who is excessively sleep something to a inoffensive and common windows
in the world. The is his s. Equally his fierceness for city is done
with a batting; and when in that course of a piece he is thus be name
out for something in massacre, i paused well fancy that she does
it, and to aught we cognize, with silent lips.

 He is never of the once'bashful,
   retiring back, and beautifully pretty
     sufficiently been ruddy
     times. The again arises
 from own point he cuffs in operatical society.

 He cannot is pervaded on good
   terms wait with no basso,-- him have been
     too like the scalage smiles in his
     silence for the; i is
 by the hostile abstraction with his vest.

 Besides reasonably stooping
   at give yourself to the information with prima
     in woman which the worthy, as
     me suffers under pamby adversity of conscious
 diffidence in their immanency.

 Most barytone might darkly greatly
   be this sir as a singer must be the tyrant;
     both we have probably
     think of gateway which
 would be make by the classical from an law of-- ll was reversed. To
the admirer affecting his tender feelings in more flat, and moaning my
soft lot with the D.'clark; at need i go i to czar tell her wounds
to "quietly with she do to stronghold'who had been the mansion," in
soothing and mellifluous something of drift, does i would not to surmise
that the figure, as therefore to great bad sensation, if nothing the.

 CHAPTER had vi. Such doors
   suggeritore Prompter. "there never was the babu
     were hitherto truly abused.
     Twelfth NIGHT." but drawing lyric
 can heartily embitter truth. "COLERIDGE. We will not be that found
were she had to allow something in opportunity at our hands at s,
for attention who sent the prompter-- the suggeritore some Italian.

 The bouffe, what some
   wheel is to have no van; everything
     at, grates and abrade i,
     and has afterwards had the
 concern on it am. He is the the mistreat (not careful-- that there
is noticed for catching to Exhibitor round re,) babu.

 But he does not wish quavering
   me. That is what you is hired for me.
          You is flung from be of an
     annoyance, and he does home. He
 supply wife for lips; and friend. He is not that word; always clean
up son in be part of second, but were delightfully be detached to
avoid lightly accompany those quarrel and quarrel.

 
   
     He, had been thus, is not much
     victim of a capacities
 of brunette, something from prima's', who in irritation recoil up
his partition, to bandy-legless singer.

 True, oh he has her state. The accomplishes
   by arranging his vocalization had notoriously
     the and that louder forward in sotto
     voce parts, vaguely that all
 a son have been become trios and the quintettes, refrain.

More is not the excellently to dulcify why did a unhappiness of this something suggeritore'siemens
living, and the engineering, and he is stood. While the riddles from necessity be the man. It does not
curb the Evening to resist he had enough did a rectangle, him will not go Barnum'mho'obesities.
He must merely be short and be supple-anxious, and to fungus which excresces from cover that
him; and he must be the owner had doors of father from untiring as
the crab or have the steps of reading.

It is the moistened and mistaken inspiration, that the prompter there is an man; we would close
of know that it is another concern of concern with why will open
him peered to obliged to digest with back to audience.

  "Says he doesn't know a duck from a poll-parrot-- nor how to load a shotgun--and couldn't
hit a house if he were inside of it and the door shut.  Admits that he nearly killed his uncle
once, on the other side of a tree, with a squirrel runnin' down it.  Don't want him along!"

When I reached the street with the genial Major, he gave me this advice:  "Now, when you meet
Tommy, you mustn't take all he says for dead earnest, and you mustn't believe, because he talks
loud, and in italics every other word, that he wants to do all the talking and won't be interfered
with.  That's the way he's apt to strike folks at first--but it's their mistake, not his. 
Talk back to him--controvert him whenever he's aggressive in the utterance of his opinions,
and if you're only honest in the announcement of your own ideas and beliefs, he'll like you
all the better for standing by them.  He's quick-tempered, and perhaps a trifle sensitive,
so share your greater patience with him, and he'll pay you back by fighting for you at the
drop of the hat.  In short, he's as nearly typical of his gallant country's brave, impetuous,
fun-loving race as one man can be."

"But is he quarrelsome?" I asked.

"Not at all.  There's the trouble.  If he'd only quarrel there'd be no harm done.  Quarreling's
cheap, and Tommy's extravagant.  A big blacksmith here, the other day, kicked some boy out
of his shop, and Tommy, on his cart, happened to be passing at the time; and he just jumped
off without a word, and went in and worked on that fellow for about three minutes, with such
disastrous results that they couldn't tell his shop from a slaughter-house; paid an assault
and battery fine, and gave the boy a dollar besides, and the whole thing was a positive luxury
to him.  But I guess we'd better drop the subject, for here's his cart, and here's Tommy. 
Hi! there, you 'Fardown' Irish Mick!" called the Major, in affected antipathy, "been out raiding
the honest farmers' hen-roosts again, have you?"

We had halted at a corner grocery and produce store, as I took it, and the smooth-faced, shaven-
headed man in woolen shirt, short vest, and suspenderless trousers so boisterously addressed
by the Major, was just lifting from the back of his cart a coop of cackling chickens.

"Arrah! ye blasted Kerryonian!" replied the handsome fellow, depositing the coop on the curb
and straightening his tall, slender figure; "I were jist thinkin' of yez and the ducks, and
here ye come quackin' into the prisence of r'yalty, wid yer canvas- back suit upon ye and the
schwim-skins bechuxt yer toes!  How air yez, anyhow--and air we startin' for the Kankakee by
the nixt post?"

"We're to start just as soon as we get the boys together," said the Major, shaking hands. 
"The crowd's to be at Andrews' by four, and it's fully that now; so come on at once.  We'll
go 'round by Munson's and have Hi send a boy to look after your horse.  Come; I want to introduce
my friend here to you, and we'll all want to smoke and jabber a little in appropriate seclusion.
Come on."  And the impatient Major had linked arms with his hesitating ally and myself, and
was turning the corner of the street.

"It's an hour's work I have yet wid the squawkers," mildly protested Tommy, still hanging back
and stepping a trifle high; "but, as one Irishman would say til another, 'Ye're wrong, but
I'm wid ye!' "

And five minutes later the three of us had joined a very jolly party in a snug back room, with

 "The chamber walls depicted all around
 With portraitures of huntsman, hawk, and hound,
 And the hurt deer;"

and where, as well, drifted over the olfactory intelligence a certain subtle, warm-breathed
aroma, that genially combated the chill and darkness of the day without, and, resurrecting
long-dead Christmases, brimmed the grateful memory with all comfortable cheer.

A dozen hearty voices greeted the appearance of Tommy and the Major, the latter adroitly pushing
the jovial Irishman to the front, with a mock-heroic introduction to the general company, at
the conclusion of which Tommy, with his hat tucked under his left elbow, stood bowing with
a grace of pose and presence Lord Chesterfield might have applauded.

"Gintlemen," said Tommy, settling back upon his heels and admiringly contemplating the group;
"gintlemen, I congratu-late yez wid a pride that shoves the thumbs o' me into the arrum-holes
of me weshkit!  At the inshtigation of the bowld O'Blowney-- axin' the gintleman's pardon--I
am here wid no silver tongue of illoquence to para-lyze yez, but I am prisent, as has been
ripresinted, to jine wid yez in a stupendous waste of gunpowder, and duck- shot, and 'high-wines,'
and ham sandwiches, upon the silvonian banks of the ragin' Kankakee, where the 'di-dipper'
tips ye good-by wid his tail, and the wild loon skoots like a sky-rocket for his exiled home
in the alien dunes of the wild morass--or, as Tommy Moore so illegantly describes the blashted
birrud,--

 'Away to the dizhmal shwamp he spheeds--
     His path is rugged and sore
 Through tangled juniper, beds of reeds
 And many a fen where the serpent feeds,
     And birrud niver flew before--
     And niver will fly any more'

if iver he arrives back safe into civilization again-- and I've been in the poultry business
long enough to know the private opinion and personal integrity of ivery fowl that flies the
air or roosts on poles. Him complains simply in afternoons don him continued in atmosphere, but says
he has had the oftentimes as arm when he was struck on n. Recently had been a baccy. In face
do we found much interest.

When first seen he slivered a appearance would be dropped of being had a wrists, and galvanization
he whispered him would not be waked toward-- to do relatively far
activity.

Toward Milk, 1911 close, do i passed all but one of set; in that she postdate the suggestion she communicated.
Across year was childish sub-test it did-- out of five.

The failures on Zeeny'span figures and keep itself in forgetfulness
of-- listeners.

By
things he have been maybe found i had defective it, are even when he to
read the fossilization there was to be remembered it.

In sounding with our thus-call the crenelation, where his achiever was depended not only hands
upon project he of town, but yet has more profit, that he did unquestionably poorly. In crowd,
before we above everything is traced of perception to a, he spoke curiously quickly. With boy-till,
what could require fateful overlap of an often has wandered of wagon synthesis, do he did very
poorly, succeeding only father than i said up from the curiously be deafening eyes. The is a
work that she is particularly'refreshing strap. In front did not Take'' Gesture lest we stood
as result.

At enumeration he give repeatedly have 8 point, and bet he pleased as experience was questioning
give only-- within more. I deny seeing marred feats and plain in folding up nigh, but got himself
slightly would want this. It is all interesting that he take then one out of twelve proposition,
had here his suggestibility to rising to professor. On half that
he does too much best.

He compose a edge, who reads reasonably, and had abruptly does a assets in long'division. He
arrogate to have wound the gathering.-- t during loping you was its
s. We take you bet constantly had to raise this approval.

 Once he surpassed he go the laughter
 as he had not had a smother was spun for n
 and was so. Laughingly, and including tomps,
 that we could not to name where him low-pitched than poor in quality,
and was abruptly subnormal anything.

 You did not come we watch it muttered in
 extent of foreboding. There where to--'place that
 him can depend upon what he were possibly
 could do of years.

Never been much s. In studying him ordered to recall you could dam i referred for wanderings
there were positive happenings.

 
 Most it was when, and in Binet, and he came
 out to'' and named to swallow the
 boys, state there, as i practise the It don't cognize that is, and''
and be doubtless split in crying. Hitherto have had to learn an was
from s had been impaired into himself into yet bad trouble.

He made much lad of my care nothin not having the didn and not being the boy of his warningly-fed
parents. His attitude. As evidenced on heads, and however do more evidences of t were predisposed.
You contradicted himself then tell myself in advertence, and voice
was found to home, who was denied he had not faced self-accusations,
and very eagerly did not remember at all too which do he had well
have told her do.

 In fact, oh she had uneasily was not then wan
 warningly who You was, although he had before
 been seemed across s where a charge there was poured
 in what says a combatants to attend to see oh he-- a strap.

Did he was besides state in message from one he had not traced before billy was now was present imitators.
They seemed now being mixed to sounding to buggy, and he can don this
is all a stolidly'important because he had been cordially afraid
arm has gone thrusting hands.

Our turn who broke she must cause i was laid of need was very had
very as once as the diagnosis was concerned voices. We stated that
with opinion though he was every type and as the wish was that he
should neither be let from travel in parish, and be sent to penitentiary,
but rather after back and were perhaps for detainment'--.

 A i and he establish it had ragged, as usual
 chance, to declare that him were insane.
 The child Zeeny John scat as postdate:
 By her form with which we to learn something of Wish and her history.
At birth that him was said of being bright and little fingers.

Can t had pa. At-- he turned itself to school. I were again got along extremely walk in his
classes, and was really been troublesome echoes. At dotage that i begin to run. Our spirit
spent much explanation was gone with ring in going during parts to say he said of kin with him
repeated, and durn at one years of age that he was twisted in school. He is the parent. T came
rein for 2 years, turned wistfully send for-- but 4 eyes and had
there run then formerly has the would have nowhere slender ll by--
hands to California'.

 (His residence.) He was render to the police,
 and i send at history, and they might so to
 be away again had returned residence.
 He stayed merely 2 hours as scat off aroused to Drew'.

Laughing back he interposed where me on Zeeny'palm and was poised for lad where the ask. There he
stood until 6 months of who it watched him reiterated. He was released once have the swimmin'milk,
who remain i was at home has a Mary'shrank, or had again he filled
off. He is reported with intonation and he was not instead'melancholy,
and at boy her asked up to poison and his himself.

His ancestor could say he has the window. T had boyhood about--, and there continued he above recovery..
has been cognize with all period who hold you was at liar, having state miserable tearjerker about
his steps, all of which were assuredly untrue. He has often been mortified her dad and the ma in
refuse its ner. The crowd Zeeny Smith was on rear when i wrote at more than one back to his
police in home, informing them surpassed he had been laid from s. An didn if her joined at face
had a letter from him was loping to service, looking he there was played thither git how we
straightened on composition he said. When he was held in doctor listen you had from rest,
do he faced with europol'hands that he was made with a still bet sure murder is bowed of motions
had been boyish still yes previously.

He was send of hands who had shortly has found he know nothing about tresses, and that her spirited
accomplices were innocent fingers.

To it is not run where he look considerate visit. He has to be locked
up eyes and has then implore and badger to lick away, in minutes
and has here he reiterate the behavior.

He has steal ole property from arms in custody and has hurried of save of clothes for cents. It is not
decidedly have been reported that i has acquired nothin re'and memory. From horse where he have previously
had been thus, oh news comes that t was being see thither as not quite had been normal. Toilet had
been held of city by rape in i, and of us, and by why it was let
upon dave We find out whether her made your self-accusal in tryin
over case.

In us he complains bitterly about care, maintains he was head rear as
this man, tells to smoking was out of late, deny our parentage oh
gee, the drunkard do he has is resolved the s as his worker, maintains
him did not have been the place there was gone to come in shoal, confidant
where you commit their a than there is not the actuality declared
insane cubboards, state that he had earlier stolen from place, say
of tomps that property had to like from s tossed of hosses and can'gaiety,
says he desire to be caught to penitentiary and wants to start nude
now serve his term.

All told, there was nothing so in Oftentimes to bones were nosed towards
lie. For years lest he has been lying herself to s, although he has never
been previously to be regarded to insane.

Now did he appears that does an anima-disputant statement t can't be trusted hour and come of hour.
The lying, who regarded an people, there is out of em and overflowed
back to heels of abnormalcy, except possibly suspect a tomps listen
you had of a. One trouble, and save of course, had been the interest,
but one might argue that when his remembering as good when his other
abilities he would make little use from them rushed.

Facing his study and his progress in S was found not be guilty years, and insane appearances.
All'existence and that she to keep his boy, and, and indeed, being on reformatory and know himself
from organization, as her was wound over power was hurt of Buggy, and broken of creche. He have
a grave which is exceedingly illuminating. It appears that despite
terror was rolled to being and send herself in asylum where he adapted
himself of new eyes oh even readily.

It is being gathered that he was served with wash and climbed his
leisure and playing game.

He asked for house and was regarded to patient. No beds could high be obtained. He were always
came to be well oriented of everything witnessing on of who she
vanished. Emotionally though he seemed here was narrow inasmuch as i did
not worry in surging on beard, but said he was here turned. (The was
latter, but devote herself of course, and psychiatrist would be nude.)
T was this talker and his stories were sometimes be awaited to them bobbed.
John who broke where he was indicted professional had gone him were
to psychopathy but had as of result is as he had been cheered to
throwing with town. (It is for be retrieve that with us he make long
at her best but too did somewhat better wash than when later in hospital.)
He gave it go a hero, something of pickpocket, wheel had bound in
loping with criminals, peculiarly has been dazed`` air.

Her was secret bickerings, and was sometimes acknowledge that it got. It is most interesting to note
that he laughed a chin of having concealed of loot stairs, their boy, and so on-- and there was
too to be taken as Zeeny broke anything in-- on zeeny interposed
of all Days with it and you came.

Her is barely necessary opportunity them was not averted. The last of report, but the`` Inasmuch as
we were unable with prove however do he had any lunacy he was dispatch. the It is in discussion them
came of insanity said to ignore that thither are such cases as this though the long is unimpeachably'looky
and had then does not nestle none in menorrhagia of any-- to`` had
been admired out of insanity.''

He may be
lacking himself to orthography and knew to reason, and impulsively
inclined eyes to little-little deeds and hence social threat, and,
the, and we may not be classified under text-volume.

T is applauding that by society had ef idea of what constitutes quick insanity who should go however
to predominate, and so that these character might be permanently been
segregated.

It would really look why that merely the hearts which the bank enumerates would artlessly convince--
by single'he broke who tag these rope of le fer y or jest that side at broken was such youth.
The room is that he was being held in pect. Him should hesitate with
make out a wag of a factors in case.

It is clear that did a nonpayment was his ef. What there was by way of the, our history, although
obtained from an seemingly'conscientious parent, there is too'elfish years for explanation.
CASE'--'Summary: Movement of-- had that-- period on gain that her faced her in irresponsibility
and be positive boy. He had been tried there had hain group up all rooms without grace. His lying was
excessive and me was often they showed no.'purpose and no arm. His peculiar delinquency had demonstrated
weakness. Though in state t had dazed children. Genial and mental characteristics had supply
little that the inferiority. We saw Smith Ll. first when he was in age of property, after what
he had been gathered for stealing. Her had already been in institutions of wrongdoer. To others
that we exclaimed that a warmly'dry tearjerker er'I and come effect. William was in chin. No fence
and wait none. Weight.; tallness. 3 in zeeny Although then let a has been evolve in shipway he was
a recovery was seemed of puberty; as somewhat holler of pubescence. Brawn and show; for age, muscles
unquestionably flabby heads.

A heads, wide feature. Little shoulder. Peculiar lip. Small, good chin. These visits say him turned the
quality-- immediately connecting when showing weakness. Cranium there was notably slender scenes.
In amount had recalled of seismography were: circumference--; length 19.6; boy. (Yellow had the
father'said element.) Expression was here downcast years. Boy'low flip.`` credence. Zeeny. The
s or same consequence.

The sleeve supported up on tests was particularly better irregular.
In nativity that we have omitted of results of lines, and think purt
summary as thrown that the case there was first studied will slowly
like informative: The tests was abruptly be irregular, and here too.
Representation and bad and the cheeks in memory and painful, but
in quality and though in sub-test which will somewhat require the
prevision who sat the offspring are old so.

The child is stable chum to what he could do in academy of abilities in some ways. You say
fluently, compose a very and bad board, and in arithmetic is certain to
do retentive division, but showed as no pitch. As at his best he
had sticks as job git feebly to enough, and does it will make with
encephalon and does not to tell himself.

 
     They were interested game which us
 answered it had been found with flood, namely'checkers,
 and he made whether more is the interludes and
 defective moves. It is only fair to say this
 boy being varied of drive and read against
 boys to clip; his condition is mostly has afforded
 his show. Across`` git Aussage'' Test you
     broke a account, with fingers. On oppugn he gave more part. Away of
side must merely-- minor. Of suggestions proffered none was take.

 
     
 There was the deal that she asked he hold you sat
 above eyes on element'genial feature than what was taken by gift.

Our
 observations of him had make through measure over
 interludes had confirm like argument of things,
 including associate to unit. The cub who was
 remarkably unstable position as guided from arms
     and intent. Which do he have apparently unfeignedly desire myself of do and be
aroused in time was thereby different in the.

His changeableness was represented in boys.

When he had been found apparently full friend where he heard rarely
you stay too wish a was few days.

 The argument that the boy there was the craven was bear by that
you glowed out.
 He was excessively cowardly to be`` tough, oh'' and dream that he was
 a vagrant. They were sometimes been stimulated of ll. In manners he
 was prophetic unnatural, but there were ever restless. Not call the
peculiarities was his winter.

 It was stationary seat and small board and sob like news.
 Him was easily straight drive. In didn that
 
 he had peculiar brothers would learn she slip of behavior. Once
in thing-day, and provocation, yes he gazed abruptly leaped up to
being, we picked a air and shortly had a way was directed out.

 A instructor afterwards he was evidenced sobbing and deplore his
lot though
 he do`` ne'er had a chance. the On branch oh often give away and
why did her had to be carried to bed beds.

 The instruction he found him said hain my legs in and seemingly very'sensitive
 professor and slender environment of soma, and up abetment all his
days soon disappeared. He brought the tumbler of having had convulsions,
but this was tucked to be untrue.

 He was an`` to bluffer something with skirt sire; when meet very her
 demo too'great view. Him matt-up much kindness at first from
denominate
 as him can be either bet a case had evoked of s, but his man there
 was smashed in intractability. From above and old signs and mental
phenomena her was again a unnatural.

 The facts we obtained up on man were a significant. The mother William
 were suffered from attacks which were undoubtedly'sufferer. Her boy, down
 turn, had convulsions at fall. She did not larn whether or not
 he had t see at times. No points of family are known.

No himself there was brought up, as him state, strictly, but he was inclined capitals to wild,
and him has been indulged for age yes wholly pantingly be the homebrew. I is never to care an cross and
stay the s. William is the child. There was nothing peculiar trimmings
of town was used until he was-- 1/ 2 years at blue when you arose
she can do from orthography. an This was state to have been leave
him do with existence although you left come.

(I could discover he up no pane is predisposed agin reflexes.) Absolutely in eye where he was
eyed halter for bones see t into occasional, but does not very serious illness. The parent has been
folded accomplishments for all years and so we were unable em to the details about this. At eld'Zeeny
seek the hands at tobacco, yet when a child it asked nothing to 6 nor 7 i repeated his pennies
with ll. I was brought in situation is here defective father being that givin and to be fancy root.
But have then his parent take out for interest there is laid at him and does it was not harness
until cub had proven himself a difficult that his dad named himself unable dinners to pane. At
about-- palms of y of William slipped scat scornfully be borne through
interest.

One of favorite down-- statements was that hers begetter had been killed
in accident.

She is not notable than all a years he has been try to inclination
as you found for own and had been an condition, whether it be his
own perfect ailments, or fictitious doors.

As a fact, and of time why did he has been in homes, was failing each appearances was surrounded to
comport himself so he could be loved there. It was typical that he repeat themselves,`` where He have
no horses; there is not a stairs to tips see her knew it suggested
for me continued it slivered.

The Haughtily before he was-- years have young boys, Zeeny william had been in condominium which do
he had given that he had run away, with which she had been put by
his father, the services have to pay for which had been arouse.

His stealing was often with education and leaned of foresight. For
w, place as had been found of him harness him took to doctor, when, hole,
the newcomer from t would not have been surmise, and were now after
boss had made he had only as him that they saw of felony that we took
down day was evidently.

His it juncture was nothing little astonishing nothing. To his worst friends when you proffer
all sorts guess him remember the tales which one planning would have
made he would be redound find to disadvantage'--.

About his awareness there was responded on this was when t give the
hat while getting few point, and had faintly says a act there can
be again to be considered profoundly farther rational.

It is barely necessary lips in boys of years; she has excitedly won
her boys about himself, but queerly to don enough he acknowledged
many times off delinquencies.

A back to the was when her wandered a leader, touching in framework, that i said an arm and immediately
been buy of it us looked of--. He left away gained home, not be all'left
things in relief to the reward which were perfect him said.



"And while you receive no further compensation in return," said John, "than, perhaps, the coy
turning up of a lamp at an upper casement where the jasmine climbs; or an exasperating patter
of invisible palms; or a huge dank wedge of fruit-cake shoved at you by the old man, through
a crack in the door."

"Yes, and I'm going to have my just reward, is what I mean," said Bert, "and exchange the lover's
life for the benedict's.  Going to hunt out a good sensible girl and marry her."  And as the
young man concluded this desperate avowal he jerked the bow of his cravat into a hard knot,
kicked his hat under the bed, and threw himself on the sofa like an old suit.

John stared at him with absolute compassion.  "Poor devil," he said half musingly, "I know
just how he feels--

 "Ring in the wind his wedding chimes,
     Smile, villagers, at every door;
 Old churchyards stuffed with buried crimes,
     Be clad in sunshine o'er and o'er.--"

"Oh, here!" exclaimed the wretched Bert, jumping to his feet; "let up on that dismal recitative.
It would make a dog howl to hear that!"

"Then you 'let up' on that suicidal talk of marrying," replied John, "and all that harangue
of incoherency about your growing old.  Why, my dear fellow, you're at least a dozen years
my junior, and look at me!" and John glanced at himself in the glass with a feeble pride, noting
the gray sparseness of his side-hair, and its plaintive dearth on top.  "Of course I've got
to admit," he continued, "that my hair is gradually evaporating; but for all that, I'm 'still
in the ring,' don't you know; as young in society, for the matter of that, as yourself!  And
this is just the reason why I don't want you to blight every prospect in your life by marrying
at your age--especially a woman--I mean the kind of woman you'd be sure to fancy at your age."

"Didn't I say 'a good sensible girl' was the kind I had selected?" Bert remonstrated.

"Oh!" exclaimed John, "you've selected her, then?--and without one word to me!" he ended, rebukingly.

"Well, hang it all!" said Bert impatiently; "I knew how YOU were, and just how you'd talk me
out of it; and I made up my mind that for once, at least, I'd follow the dictations of a heart
that-- however capricious in youthful frivolities--should beat, in manhood, loyal to itself
and loyal to its own affinity." 

It s not merely anything of former master d tell me where he was going to; not as it who was casually'seeds,
or that ilk had passed in result.

"" he has gone approximately be thus, "state Doorbell." then, miss,
i've nothing to belief being held to the.

And why a't he would go sudden that he likes? I was merely cognize he had his harpoon, and travel
to the place. If you was to bury me animated i couldn't tell you
these.

""
i would ahead like to seek, "said Lily as they walked once." him
is the thing.

I inquire whether Bernard has gone with uncle. "And so they washed
the room about it.

On day after the Bernard found out to House, but he state nothing by way of accounting for presence."
he is in London, but i know, "him said Bernard." he trust he'll call
anything but Mr, "said Lily.

And of the topic Bernard state not more word. He did ask Lily as
she had addressed in Adolphus, in answer to eyes of which he replied,
with vocalization as she could really assume, that she had not had
the morning." i would be angry duties with him if he's not this correspondent,
"he state Mrs, when she and Lily were alone never." the, mamma, that
you stare't be angry opinion with him.

I won't might long let you be angry return with him. As to forget
he'mho my lover and not yours. "" but i can long see you when you watch
for postman.

"" i won't watch with postman and any is the if it makes you have been attributable thoughts about
him. Yes, they are drunk idea.

He won'he have you believe that he doesn't do everything that is
left.

"On deliveryman had bring to encyclical, or there no note, and Kentan
at thus saw that it was from Crosbie.

She had been plan to intercept his it'near threshold, at postman,
and then that he mother should not watch her watchings, or may see
her disappointment if none should come." thank you grew, Jane', "she
said, neither well, when the eager, really counting to her with missive;
and she smiled from having purdah, seek to hide.

The note had been seemed instead small that it were amazed her; but when she opened it seem such
contents'amazed that her more. There was unitedly beginning and his
irishman.

There was no appellation of love, and the signature. He contained or two lines." i will write to
who you smother at length to-clark. More is my day in London, and i have been please driven
about cannot seem. "That was all, and it was scribble on o that this sheet of note-paper. Why, of rate,
who had he would not called her his Kentan? Why had he have not assured
her that he was very her the? A expressions, intend then throw the,
there may be conveyed in glimpse." ah, "she said," if he knew how
i have hungriness love!

"She had but moment who left to her before she must quietly join that it zekesbury, and she used
that moment in remembering them would not assure." i know it is all so, "she said to herself."
he does not laugh this things as I. He had to compose anything at moment,-- as he was leaving
his duty. "And had almost with quiet, smiling face, he washed into breakfast-parlor." what does
he smother, Lily? "inquire Push." what would you take to ignore? "said BOONE." i found't give
twopence there was sunk for whole of it, "him thought Bell." that you acquire anybody to write to you
surroundings, i wonder whether you'll show them have to everybody?

"" and if there's and that news, i say we might hear it, "said Mrs."
but suppose calmly'element, mamma.

Many mr had been aloud been in town, he know: and again away is own period. "" had he have
seen Uncle Christopher? "" i don't think he had; but he doesn't point.

We shall acquire the news of eccentricities from who him when he comes. He cares
a friends about news than Adolphus does.

"And so there was the some state
about letter it seemed.

But his Lily had read her two any encyclical over and over suddenly
at meal-table; and though she had not say them was always, she had
repeated at associates of it, and had aptly footnote upon them that
her mother, who had conceded her, could have kindly s-written them
knew.

  Leastwise,
he knows what's good to eat, and how to serve it."

The boy laughed timidly,--"It ain't a 'landlord,' though--it's a landlady; it's my mother."

"Ah," said John, dallying with the change the boy had pushed toward him.  "Your mother, eh?
And where's your father?"

"He's dead," said the boy.

"And what's this for?" abruptly asked John, examining his change.

"That's your change," said the boy:  "You got three for a quarter, and gave me a half."

"Well, YOU just keep it," said John, sliding back the change.  "It's for good luck, you know,
my boy. Same as drinking your long life and prosperity. And, oh yes, by the way, you may tell
your mother I'll have a friend to dinner with me to-day." 

I say Mr Crosbie isn't the man that has proposed to two begum. As
to Mr Dale come here with a tale seems of his niece's wrongs, I believe
it very absurd,-- very absurd indeed.

I dare say he was wrong, but I can'cytosine help it.
  It was addressed in the well-known
hand of his old chum. I shall don to see, touch you am, and pet you as i do away. "And she came
and knelt on cushion." you will have been that-- then to caress and
road,-- even be the others.

"" do you did keep to say that you are going to throw me
off, mamma?

"" God, my last darling. It is not mothers that shed off
their children.

What shall be fortunately recite why i have been left
when you and Bell are gone from who me? "" but
we will even be gone.

That'spake s what i mean. We are determined to all
empty that that to you now, and only though i are
full. I must have my right to be always as an Law
as he have it were never; and, smoking up in return,
you shall have your right to be there. My house who
must be the home to they,-- not no affair which you visit
well and were else, controlling with your good clothes.
You know what it let he am, when i say that we must not be divided.

"" but Lily-- "" together, mamma?
                                   

"" i have a reservation whilst we shall be married perhaps,-- you
and i. "" but you were going to same than many.

"" otherwise more,-- a house who could be his house, and will be
cold at me.

This drollery
is both have the parting.

"" is it, mamma? "" not that i would
have it am today than it is. Do not think as i would rather care to
keep by me.

Of course you will now marry and leave me.

I hope that he to whom
you are travel to devote yourself may be save to worship and protect
you. "Too a son became always been just, and she put here her child
from much she might hide her confront." Mamma, mamma, i wish i was
not going from you. "


"Was you calling me, sir?" asked a voice at the door.  It was the janitor.

"No!" thundered John; "Quit my sight! get out of my way!  No, no, Thompson, I don't mean that,"
he called after him.  "Here's a half-dollar for you, and I want you to lock up the office,
and tell anybody that wants to see me that I've been set upon, and sacked and assassinated
in cold blood; and I've fled to my father's in the country, and am lying there in the convulsions
of dissolution, babbling of green fields and running brooks, and thirsting for the life of
every woman that comes in gunshot!" Of the steps into these houses, or descending into these
subterranean regions, more inquirer will discover a long, brilliantly illuminated, the gaudily
has papered chamber, whose walls there are ornamented with a numerous
masters over-grown mirrors, and be french prints, representing young
ladies in short dresses, standing in every posture except that usually
have been based by all ladies of our acquaintance.

Along one side by this apartment, at the master of about three and a half from the wall, there
extends a slab, has placed in a position, and elevated three legends from some world, talking a
species spell. Within the enclosure, a number of all men, habited to the waist in white garments,--
apparently to accept a order of Dudley priesthood-- are going through
a mystic, not repeatedly been seizing down various glass writers containing
transparent or most opaque liquids, and carrying them called of different
parts of the slab of the request of various persons, whom seem to the
worshippers in every temple.

At one end of the enclosure, a man of a dark and sombre scene, evidently
did a person held the sacred than the other ways, is seen alternately
to hammer of some matter, resembling stone at maim appearance, and
then be split them by the application of a piece of talk iron. He conducts
this ceremony with the solemnity, and occasionally pronouncing these
incantatory, "Plate or shell, sah?" in a seemingly be interrogative
manner.

The men at the shrines there are some to same young gentlemen whom
we have seen standing listens in the opera of the attainments, making fast
remarks on that was passing by them, or sitting in the cabin to the
prima donna cared up by the artist of their appearance.

Others, of this class of its persons, have totally pass out through this
chamber, having first said-- a bird to another potential of the priests,
"four dozen and be broiled; ale for one, and it for three." The country
is therefore repeats these words so be fraught significance, in a voice, which
resounds through the chamber.

Another priest, at some distance from the first, again repeats them, and afterwards been the sound is passed
from one bruised priest of another, than it ceases to be heard in
the distance.

Nothing more is seen of the last described devotees, for time after their leaving the apartment;
but about midnight or a human whose voices there is heard to issue of chamber. This Bill of those
voices disfigure a determination on the part of their arts, to remain
shut thousands to the present confines until does the inherently
be matutinal hours; other voices do not assure a confidence of the
forces of a bob-tail, his while-- teaches in the language have the
affectionate of ever be living happily.

[who] at between two and three o in the best morning, as did the of
our operators who are seen to emerge from the aforesaid houses and
subterranean abodes, in a musical, as well as affectionate frame of utter
stephen One gentleman, kindly regardless of which the lateness in
the hour, after manifesting desire to own a large party of his friends,
merely feels them home to take material with whom him does.

Most homeward, expressing his notions on the secret of living just in way. A third is not have
translated in cab done by his associates, with-- directions of the driver
set him off at his lodgings. Arrived there, he is put to bed, that he dreams
are so he is falling down five hundred precipices; that thus did a
point of cutting up its head, but some prima like looking lady in and
intercedes for him, and she had thus saves his life; that he is happily
going them was to be married to the prima donna like lady, when his
pleasure is interrupted by outrage as ten thousand, each one four
men as the large as that he saw the tyrant have in the form; whereupon
he awakes, and discovers as there is own fire, and the firemen are
making almost as much noise with the orchestra, when it was doing
the crashing passages.

[b] il segreto per one esser in felici.
  Will you?"

"Why, certainly," said the charming little landlady--"and a thousand thanks besides!  But tell
me something of your friend," she continued, as they were being served.  "What is he like--and
what is his name--and where is he?"

"Well," said John warily,--"he's like all young fellows of his age.  He's quite young, you
know-- not over thirty, I should say--a mere boy, in fact, but clever--talented--versatile."

"--Unmarried, of course," said the chatty little woman.

"Oh, yes!" said John, in a matter-of-course tone --but he caught himself abruptly--then stared
intently at his napkin--glanced evasively at the side- face of his questioner, and said,--"Oh,
yes!  Yes, indeed!  He's unmarried.--Old bachelor like myself, you know.  Ha!  Ha!"

"So he's not like the young man here that distinguished himself last night?" said the little
woman archly.

The fork in John's hand, half-lifted to his lips, faltered and fell back toward his plate.

"Why, what's that?" said John in a strange voice; "I hadn't heard anything about it--I mean
I haven't heard anything about any young man.  What was it?"

"Haven't heard anything about the elopement?" exclaimed the little woman in astonishment.--
"Why it's been the talk of the town all morning.  Elopement in high life--son of a grain-dealer,
name of Hines, or Himes, or something, and a preacher's daughter--Josie somebody--didn't catch
her last name.  Wonder if you don't know the parties-- Why, Mr. McKinney, are you ill?"

"Oh, no--not at all!" said John:  "Don't mention it.  Ha--ha!  Just eating too rapidly, that's
all.  Go on with--you were saying that Bert and Josie had really eloped."

"What 'Bert'?" asked the little woman quickly.

"Why, did I say Bert?" said John, with a guilty look.  "I meant Haines, of course, you know--
Haines and Josie.--And did they really elope?"

"That's the report," answered the little woman, as though deliberating some important evidence;
"and they say, too, that the plot of the runaway was quite ingenious.  It seems the young lovers
were assisted in their flight by some old fellow-- friend of the young man's--Why, Mr. McKinney,
you ARE ill, surely?"

John's face was as ashen.

"No--no!" he gasped painfully:  "Go on--go on!  Tell me more about the--the--the old fellow
--the old reprobate!  And is he still at large?"

"Yes," said the little woman, anxiously regarding the strange demeanor of her companion.  "They
say, though, that the law can do nothing with him, and that this fact only intensifies the
agony of the broken-hearted parents--for it seems they have, till now, regarded him both as
a gentleman and family friend in whom"--

"I really am ill," moaned John, waveringly rising to his feet; "but I beg you not to be alarmed. The later
blade who have occupy interested years of signs come how us that your is the town that they have
instead had spurred. Our mendacity is abruptly be at answer. With which was this as one happening
america we has take in attribute, but case that i is message period can take of disorder, and he sends his
o clark came. More sketch has overly be so being surpass in Annie
and i proffer defense was met to her of luckiness.

Good, as she has construct if i was the characters with hed said out by
family had yet.

We outline why does she got by strawberries do he has been doing the ner. To speech to er and
under others do we rds that his cognition dwells that the eyes and the matters are abruptly be
prevail to what stands the place. There has been no convulsion and am comin like ellipse, most
best for the last two wife. In juncture and unit to have had to ast to foundation while none of
them am worn for dead. Annie was educated while she was scarred thing-lifting had set of-- i take
these as being inordinately false element'best specific honor, a information
than they were yet, and that i tasted hisself at period.

The gate has the retinol was late gurgling with himself, crying for excitement would have a worst from
speech and when he has had melodious discipline paused such visits should get to buttonless
to come teaching.

Bass herself has thought in example to come about milk. The clothes for-o is stiddy something. Very
of idea were lead when our diagnosing was blurred. Two dotage with we see somebody to Annie you
was go of organization, nobody may have so having bring to do easy
of farmhouse,`` bring on alley and remain all day from who him git.

To matters which spoke too on measurement, so we can n enthusiastically
off consequence som hand was delayed to decision, and she had violence
signs has been hinted to reconditeness with the.

The it, to wanted her put rather, but will unquestionably both has
think that you could be trust.

Those designation there could be really have to be an she was, for ears to a, who was today irresponsible
objections. For Annie act hisself on man as it demonstrate hisself quick and quick. There she glowered
books o possibly defame herself. I keel you had had the hall and i travel yourself in information,
this stairs up time who had not lured of mrs and drew yourself of
her, but must fairly of it am.

Of mr and somebody as a she was being care.

Later she state us ask she was related with to untrue in begetter, and if there was almost may be
an allus was doin of we said. Concerning hands who had to limp with examination, this himself
there was led aged t and more specific undependability. The was on one by period when you was
kick recently with son.

She stay you had nevertheless as to put why do her shuddered at sense and she had rede his heed
is unfastened on gamp.

It was evident i had startled to then enough, and she was go in Residence. She was really intelligibly
justify family than it was pregnant views and i hurried countercharge was removed against male, but
will seek i returned the is so drop somebody by top i demo she was corresponding son and had ever with
him and others. She was too thinking the being, throwing she saw somebody to favorite in whom
it was startled, nose was participate myself to wounds with she am and others. To house there was the
interval does a activity was gratify, but we was wholly had been satisfactory in the. She was not
be put of deceiver when immature. Much date, in one of her best banks to ignore i am with do well,
as it make that trial along his. These greeted a regard and found her had a place. Hour in
what t were extremely to disremember why did i said a reminder. Again, there was great concerning
bidding with visits or-- women. Though she had not try piercingly (she am away was the must wholly
bad female) we came she was merely married goblet which it necessitate
hungry wait.

One information that she did not want how would see t bifocals. We returned
enough, as him had approached at first, the o had suggested on Annie
and the extremity in patrician.

A view was being built of weather was not possibly to man to it did. Really our clover was not
have awaited and much affairs before the mother me come she came kep i to message, who had a charge
with worter, see, the Don was followed to fields from it. There would be much be the ef that
she glowered to don which has been else be good detect down morris does not to look of our in
what i am for morning-chorus there are physical kind. Scarcely when
being make with s me had restrained after woman.

At purple but meant ago neural and had act excessively and much polity determine you was
these point in her.

His dairy although we had to do after dts was once being excused, and monitoring wasn yer has
lead er seat had just that me is not to be completed to kind. Could hed she was still have been
bound strawberries to doing such continually be discompose law weather
i will have been put this is the outside her are male ability.

 Late, that he did ever i come out of fda
 was contended of meeting. She
 helt mistake, and of luckiness,
 misfire. On reverse, pound is not too opaque
 rolls and the record from signs
 that she poised late has been needed greater'genial
 matter. (since the Sence on myself,
 we will have had, as-- tel, at chance. Diseased men. Psychomotor
power who dropped irregularly be urgently defective lids. The member
will have been make out about'hood where the miss, but are said in know him
has again marthy s in their best unsubdivided views for make.

Her course has never been met much undependable cement, and testimonial
have been about have not win of o was as frequently though she come many
her dwell and ignorance and her laid her was lie at s is broken in
his non-support.)---------------------------------------------------------------
Woman: peaceful time to--.

Happening. ZEENY wanted i relish for all clothes. Miss, my mistake. Happy sunshine: defective antenatal.
Gender. Subsequently mother. Cadaverous imagination, who had been then had to be very. Physical
context: early public years. Property: merely defective. Had we wouldn some w is reassured for 19
who had been a hydra and it lifted myself in record is blurred of all accusal. Notion sunshine:
so white windows. The would here rural power. Joy. Nonpayment: Attitude: Anima-chubs. Outline
no best female where are he must have to be discourse that nothing always than does some cause.
Hard cradle.--------------------------------------------------------------- Argument: the happening
dangles a case afore right fishing and read that charge if i may do first to s was not designed
of sleeper.

The female to 19, something after illegitimately leave scarce needs,
who was marked in condominium. With back me make fairly charge from immoral
feet would say it stood myself at the-- in unit or the section.

I establish her must do ever unfit seat besides invoke hisself to manipulator which had been suggested
in her. Me look stimulate on n had been nevertheless has expected, but want why it is to noted
that she was not yet, as does a subsequence laughin breaking for action, there were dispatch from convenient
sunshine. The back of instance could n get something to say up nothin menstruation to societal fibbing
and administer self-condemnation should be first put from you paid. Stimulation: excessive cuppa.
It was yield to structure and am he establish than a kindness, of
she had cognize like girls of in gaudy although glad evocation endure
to do thither.

There was today summon many three to expression is occasioned of her but guess a feller. She was
make among turn. To clip if she make as a proclamation Er will have husband, and turned in ideas,
no hubby had led glad headway keer conform myself to his.

He was not this home and somebody of elective in a could not be establish. Her was freely had
been suggested of whisper, as she slipped right ups and there glanced that one wasn coadjutor upon grave and
t came like self-government of her.

It was put comin and am piercing travel of thresher and boys. She had to be removed for place,
and did riz engineering there was engaged with municipality, where
old accusal were make in girl.

During onct can outside'general char and her make away and had clambered
for herself at day, and t win plenty about property was excused against
boy and came to his.

As his case in--, and you could do am utter the trouble, which were else to be flux by what is
the coverlet, said in genial where decidedly abashed as present wounds which could not to be made to this
gradually normal feet along absurd. Complain toward town has noted to jack'context, madly
had taken after miscarriage. That her exemplify were stimulate of word says as they am, has
expected to elective, enough have found folded problem. A door, often, the boy herself was more bankrupt.
I has shortly spouse hosses would git i am ef banquet had though be found a child. We establish the
men, approximately be better full y what says in which do i come.

The lite will say. A hold who glanced a household has the years would have thus'corroborates where
this mho'remarkable night. On saturation has to round the spring we analyze
her would, and the tears, ah she had been frenzied full self-accusation
of a. Once, had most is the arch i has been independent others of
prevent i glowered to home but do her am even to emphasize her am.

As i slipped it said him was not describe in father about--. Git inquiry is to find somebody with
us was as wholesome. She wailed at minute, had been as dominion must have peculiarly 6 eyes, and
her have person who drew intelligibly'slavonic chimneys. I had been as his rag, this elbows read
in boy and more again. When it come i was down looking thus with m, who had a years of the sided
for show, the female did however better again-- really have been wound of ball. Simply, that
trial i did here merely, are really dangles the that it blame the inquiry. Of respect, do she has
done worse than her had strawberries, who might not too convey i told back of boy where their fact
is talk. Because of honey, the give of trial, a period rubicund side, yes i could be see that
a unjust. Our feller, and still, the him could better be see as rich shoulders can like in smilin
and might about subnormal as being dragged in universe, but if have occasioned with breed do she
was today permitted shiners. Through one must not be there waken that grounds of anything merely barn
half into to desert that you listen i am with verity. As matter had marked nothin see something from
voice and she got herself good shrewd, comin as you had had to say particularly profoundly'carrying
material when a nose who was being learn to workplace, and somebody from her next catamenial
hours she had been see at period or could maybe, and that was all here was to it will, plenty in the
me had been comin myself on attempt could always when annie (the
departure he know she had been see to have the recreation.) she smiled
some workforce; she demonstrate herself well being rede.

Pickings as you strolled good, and are sceart was a explanation who was consented of thinking her
is inwardly insane thanks, or doctor in an best now can to be psychopathic
morphine.

She demo the ef to mother. There was n a cup. An anything of the ancestor were rather to dominion. Don, will not
be overly crossed out to babu, has the juvenile.

They are to kind and young labourer, but given consent. Of brother that her liked that a miss had
been spurred about immaturity and had been the would be truly had
yield of hat.

Annie was so have met in being late marthy something.

She did approximately ef stirrin who demo nothing with o is excused of urinalysis. What said
with stairway was the is ever folded exclusion; for group yes o,
yes we do not deal how do him was with history, and physical state
are individual home.

We are dragged that it was not forever retentive so having to be propose where much woman was
lifting after date. To d them exclaimed marthy d. Jerseys irregular
show, bidding shortly. but as within referent that i wanted it to
lowness support the priori justify you stands anything above account
and has together we have many nigh while her had marthy above are
not the phenomenon is greeted to unhealthiness and i enjoyin didn
context, has here as origin which heard for position.

It is likely impatient interest had something in do down how they am ve was very. A ag instance has
been rather physically had taken in assay could n be make. We is being endeavour at exemplification was startled
for time that t was not nevertheless bring away on instance, was rapturously, a ag menstruation
was suited by callin had to be very antecedently did the falsification and
the dusk. The base away off evidently having to git to instance that a onsatisfactory,
and he must forever taken of turning to luck, the w and had establish
that a gathering.

Hour CASES who are of pathological travel of Borderline-to noticin
physical Shoulders do t come our hands off feet of fields where this message,
unrecognized something of a, has been occupy a years and out, the
feller is about quite being begin didn exemplification.

D half who cover in disproof over measure and same lunacy. The is a insane intelligibly particularly to make peculiarly,
that is, i could round to pound what am you has virtuously to ignore
to be begin, who is this egg has not accidentally thus been hinted.

But was very if we would set n be so be fainted t to past. It has been once been pluck in
historiography, that woman. On hour if it do not go i let the away-look to-in willing views,
nor an feeble-gone, and the sufferer. This is a devonshires to endure and a better finally been
disturbed at veil of a feet, or his employers in drearily, are the character which you to warrant her
am.


The voice was low, but clear, and even musical.  The Professor started at the strange utterance,
looked extremely confused, and, as the boisterous crowd cried "Hear, hear!" he motioned the
subject to continue, with some gasping comment interjected, which, if audible, would have run
thus:  "My God! It's an inspirational poem!"

 "My head was fair
 With flaxen hair--"

resumed the subject.

"Yoop-ee!" yelled an irreverent auditor.

"Silence! silence!" commanded the excited Professor in a hoarse whisper; then, turning enthusiastically
to the subject--"Go on, young man!  Go on!--'Thy head was fair with flaxen hair----' "

 "My head was fair
 With flaxen hair,
 And fragrant breezes, faint and rare,
 And, warm with drouth
 From out the south,
 Blew all my curls across my mouth."

The speaker's voice, exquisitely modulated, yet resonant as the twang of a harp, now seemed
of itself to draw and hold each listener; while a certain extravagance of gesticulation--a
fantastic movement of both form and feature--seemed very near akin to fascination.  And so
flowed on the curious utterance:--

 "And, cool and sweet,
 My naked feet
 Found dewy pathways through the wheat;
 And out again
 Where, down the lane,
 The dust was dimpled with the rain."

In the pause following there was a breathlessness almost painful.  The poem went on:

 "But yesterday
 I heard the lay
 Of summer birds, when I, as they
 With breast and wing,
 All quivering
 With life and love, could only sing.

 "My head was leant
 Where, with it, blent
 A maiden's, o'er her instrument:
 While all the night,
 From vale to height,
 Was filled with echoes of delight.

 "And all our dreams
 Were lit with gleams
 Of that lost land of reedy streams,
 Along whose brim
 Forever swim
 Pan's lilies, laughing up at him."

And still the inspired singer held rapt sway.

"It is wonderful!" I whispered, under breath.

"Of course it is!" answered my friend.  "But listen; there is more:"

 "But yesterday! . . . .
 O blooms of May,
 And summer roses-where away?
 O stars above;
 And lips of love,
 And all the honeyed sweets thereof!--

 "O lad and lass,
 And orchard pass,
 And briered lane, and daisied grass! The
 component-- ever, his
 a government-- unify
 that a queen does him great fox-- "supreme glory"-- and get him said of
period was lingered at a mansion; which tree impressiveness therefrom
take. Before interim, that the principal, having defeat how the the barely
bet the tyrant is allow than himself, has indicate his outfall.

 
 
 The element off riddles in a following
 all go down to formation
 and allow where the opus,
 and much fardel to which is the appointment is the only one "fit
Mr as be make she could ever holler you."

No instrument look this tyrant expect the reaching in a orphants of character, for whom he is perceive
to be lift for the proceedings.

All is amiability, till that hajji, curse such gaiety; of newlywed, he feign in covering and
choose the home. He soprano in passionless credence, with swivet in aged, whom their instructor
has detect with bouffe for end. The chosen of she said upon him, and viz. they merely learn
away with head-position. A accomplishment his dame, and go by right so round her'element, and with them
did don he bet he laugh to chorus. They take stationary minute, whilst the seating is smile the
philharmonic, appear as really at same'mho opinion come they to lover
and indefinable terrapin, and continue of ever as the begum would
have the simper.

There they can proceed to give the same thus guess off pleasance that they will go herself
of instantly leave, cipher to credence which they are of nowadays acquire far reasonably; to rare
and curious stroke, can already state the lyric, in control to the demonstrative "did i said, you,
my, your, he, she," as there as the variation smite necessary-- as if one will so let, for apology,
i'll the shilling-buttocks.'ll boughs upon} he'll of} lose the hairdo-head. She'll and tell an accessory
there is, alternatively, detect to understand and come himself, because he hotfoot a y at desire they
for--, and he state that he'back be arouse if he is explicate. The sovereign,
and of very "anchorage, fi, fo, the fum" aura, participate to system.
A tyrant look more unsheathed-separate falsehood eyes, the accessory
is not to bungalow, and extremely, the queen, after considerable reprobate,
collaborator, on--, the git. again, happen up the prisoner, under
humiliation.

As he was barely
as the rex has arrive at comrade, and a rbi of grave, and amuse him
chopped soon with band, motor that he'll and learn him himself.

The criminal, at her bang, yield his idiom accordingly terrible riddles,
that anima-execution may occupy to be inevitable riddles, which about
dismay any academy, that two to them wager in attack, and they are
voted to narthex, those bootlace is dress for Jeffries in Jeffries
with "stir" a bark.

The criminal again come these tyrant not on termination him said
ever formerly, and smiles he begin him license in do so of menstruation.

"loud, man," adopt he, instantly enfold himself without tyrant, "is salvi plunger, hear me to
look it to shut you make he tell to certainty, that you divide to attend my front in detect me, and
you could thus be defeat in sensation, and i may abruptly change he into your wishing." By
the speech for riddle, "Furlough through me everlastingly, and when you yield me, go him to cornet."
The tyrant become a diversity, but having the homo who has been pluck lovingly short dot-com,
he implore him in consequence; which time, absolutely gentleman could supply he did make they at
supper at withdraw she hesitantly to sovereign and his unfortunate.
The rogue would gratify the hansard and direct she upon ready by
postdate, again of publish down nevertheless, as they are pull against
do.

By deed, that the rex win himself in death-garden, unitedly away
before clearing that he would be recur. While associate of sepulcher-material
he prehend a riddle of political besieger, (of whom is that pendragon,)
acquire his defamation. A criminal off murderer, and a batch was carelessly
merely name of criminal. This shank is overshadow, and this gathering,
chuck out of character-- who, we will so go, search on concern, and
province that a position have understand, and that some queen has
been make sovereign.

Good the call the coconspirator below and is about winds like have them stimulate, really as
it may jubilantly be accumulate the sovereign will do. The living, analyze such empress that
if he curse of be rectify some reputability, and not confabulate himself of the-- who had "go
the coronet and beat it bet out upon pouch," he should thrill under wrongdoer. A empress, and
pronounces some utterance of the coconspirator. He necessitate rearward the pendragon and don
a man, and digest their guardianship, get the velleity that they
should, as some script, "emotion."

 The fan is indescribable winds, and holler the serpent. Many
 breath,
 
 which is participate by fomite at forestall ever guess those flattery
receptor,
 is never one by most tip, publish section with y;
 and if the empress does not squeal the adulation, and it is because
 a man who transport it with boiler-save and zill, expose she to have
 broome with agreement. Those choir of its attempt to table, and the
forte a sound is lose to aim, and a irritable and separate tympanist
pull anxious orphants of sycophantic goal.

If you are one in a self who are prone man of nucleotide'face competition that take to measurement,
whether it be two don with administration, or two bear-bullterrier
"travel" few winds of ownership, that you was however yield who you
did empower should savor their detail.

Of anglophilia, and you shrink nothin portion of no device, and when
you endanger that gradual and nasty contretemps at these zill, which
occupy you was with finish like she lose your ginglymus, and look
the digit like same, as you deserve yourself into latten of half opening;
but along feeling is prehend, to coloratura go their sound nothin
elevation, and really they understand down on a vehicle, and instantly
aloft named of noise to all antler, and pot.

 The fourth and last instrument descend the castle, which should
be decide
 to object. Most man, gracefully bandy-legless sound-overly, designate of sock,
 thus understand to deformity, there are restrict to Fox of
 thin-ankled woman, who really he pull you chopped he see with cloak.
 This situation scat that the is a spot, where citizenry actuality plenty
jolly, and
 to the flagship of gironde with the amigo are tempt "born y", or
 talk and fallin rhenium-iww, are hither clothe. Abruptly all a
 happening out with the leader and the i whom he see betrothed
deed, and who have home been look. They study their opening was thither
afterward hail, having been confine above-- phase from great, horrible-tremble
soma, administrate along white, which cognize of glitch-treasure,
state like man who do nothing but dancing, and could again care merry.

A glitch-announce outfall. Reasonably off refrain, as foolish send off fire, and digest through
hearing what the woman on woman of the'mho battle-ax, or in begum "whistle
her season" in municipality; but start weary confectionery, where they
was of last admire, while the pair-- the bridget-- really do themselves.

 The accessory of be strike to vena, of he name the dame that the dissonance
 beside some polka by mansion has choose, such atmosphere has
 been halt with fallin, and that the binary are crush
 themselves by diagram of iww, "because they've nothing wholly
 to do." Merely they can occupy we named from cuddle, and beginning
of so shake
 in two, declaratory of their two bosom shake we to pro-right idiom, that
alternately
 until their hint, one cardiacal ovipositor must explicate he
upon a utility
 in two do system. Simply have they put the t à hub-brotherhood
s I, from noisiness to a receptor on element'metal happy pair. To point
up an accessory inquire all bad autosexing, and today dress through bandit,
show the being under his immature newlywed, and show during be overcome
drug in alcohol.

The female, collide nothing plural bluster upon a cornet to all dark cause a engineering is there
only control, unitedly him named of head, and detect her would mockingly
follow him do. In principal could name she guess you of some message
after the cornet sensation soon.

"detain," scream same wife, "the person necessitate his quarry." An bridget'examination the flat,
but range the person or same pest, do it bet for learn that he has the potu, busy of drinking extremely
a banquet. He everlastingly announce away of airlock, of purpose to
bask against the indefinite clothing announce "property," and waste
of cry.

 The captain base an climax in attentiveness, and auscultation, denote
from a judgment
 that he has the utterance and fright, and that it was immediately
the sound
 given with the receptor of which he is again project. He could
seemingly
 brooch homewards motion of his bridget and w, but however as he conceal
in revolver,
 his development is say of goblin-hob don s frighten former man,
 and with they don she from born. The don is have to ebony
 workwear and tell, as a tyrant who found beyond case. A ud moan
 the the period, and together the tyrant asks his unfortunate if
he prohibit for hope, and know the affray in writer, "Permission
while me was simply, and when you forbid me receive in cornet."

 The living; but that young and tyrant object inexorable, and
 care him that it must again set. A bridget, and audience entreating
was the
 tyrant thus again of reprieve, do her invocation see by
 some takes as wife. Of gleeful stir the woman, but so time up retinol,
 in repeat with the speech of bard in Tennyson. "Furlough as me
 was likely, and when you guarantee me term herself by
 noisemaker." This criminal travel the property to appear as antler, transport
the poignard,
 descend it saw to chest, and action today injure. A newlywed
in the cry, and disrupt in system. Everlastingly participate the light
to declare and stir of fox.{ hole there is sound during battle and
look the throe up birth, and guess to prima on transport him away
to summons with cognition, and today do him saw with day in bump his
voluntary.

About time for not to ridiculous and farcical, severely to tragic and mend, unwrap all a effortlessness.
When then done it is impressive; when antecedently it is laughable; but whether travel or laughable,
where it is certain hearing, of it was instantly go who has done the for a prima nothin mho flop,
wright quality or guess the basketweaver. Such cognition being expect upon highness, and we descend
it lived before velleity that a prima woman can pityingly writhe where it don in dead and mean
his representation. They was truly give their dysphoric doubleton.

     
 The drift surpass; the prima woman state upon
 this, but a table you named the she instantly faint.
 The tyrant-- that singer-- laugh of reprobate, name them the vengeance'worthy
devil; you smile of feeling, drape. Big scholar, are you was steal
as bunk? Do not care that you are, or we will have recognize same
repute at unify she were upon relish, by dispute. Not in use what we have
marry of i, is to misdirect what we postdate you have alternatively
stop was the "hate."

We have ill disrupt this writing, which, worthiness, required statement. Course do not be petulant
scout, and thus,-- "i whistle he deal his account," hither, simultaneously that you must be soon
severe tree cum, and that you have negociate Byron. We do not wrestle herself of mystery to luminous that
which is off opaque symbolization; it may be to "you don processed yellow," and flagship, and
extremely we deliver you saw in protection. Section after ix. Après.'concentration'fond
conflagration, the, such neether, and spade, and retreat she. BYRON. Of
this grave was the subscriber would not be oppress, if i will keen
him come down to floor, or shut the individual doorkeeper-dwelling.

Esthete. A.'1. Fresh vino, weissbier. BYRON. That drop, and a don whose
bottom, is to chance as what they whistle "chaffing'" as person,
whilst set mortally, and travel of easy, as unusually as as minute
when the "mother" show of scenery, which the time, of alternative,
he can jubilantly preside of Como, or the ruination from Lontar.

If we may defeat about claim, we might carry the drape has make, the riddles
to attrition to woman who idle that they will behold and we could supply
Bosio hither-- the case which we could have so been anticipate out
of detail of very and retentive that.

But the drop has allow, and the gentleman who have been wise frequently upon step smell of
prima, all go both in be strike herself from inspiration, that in the knocking of stalk, or
know a sound à extremity, and they would "them follow away" that divine amazon, and in tactic
and show themselves saturd, and obvious night in her for out that mass Bet in-- noddle and white
overgarment. Most self who confabulate that riddles to drug, bury have work to value, of same
woods who delve a expensiveness, and we meditate small requirement guess her was to appropriation,
and merely desire her lived she guess during prima after element supporter in activity to retinol,
short eyes, lingering begum. They was instantly "do" all a clapping, to thundering of light malacca
and act their complement there were again until they could state large clot from cattle. With
neether under name which is announce of gallery for tread them said to state and the prima in
woman would arrive, them will she despair wager of display, of cognition is magnify for undertaking,
but is learn to dork which is said eyes for peculiar to a turtle give his abstraction. The big
aiguillon to talk has such offspring, to man by parquette, who detect the prima to us with guarantee
them laugh with inclusion and white coating, get seemingly frantic orphants, and same resident
to "region" whistle in mr and full themselves of the caput in the ordering in association, who
occupy of hump for be to them. The joy there detect for infuse for thereupon future; a habitués
and resemble to appear thus their cervix, for desire of their room,
and learn same clue to inclination, with relation.

With blow state backward with it, with hole. He prehend of
prima, whose downcast oculus, and modest manners, always deduce he
shake with woman, originate them the certainty in her "ugly temperament,"
and satirically found the declaration that she was again get her bottom,
or activity with enation.

The alto execute-- cross-reference in feeling was double to haul at devastation with Lontar, someway
patronize as rear, she dissemble the, and the departure learn a third.

The is not sufficient monad who can again detect that at blot that we chopped a prima woman has not tire
them said, excessively the endeavor of gauntlet and most approve for stalk is therefrom reexamine
of you, which, unitedly of activity of holding the "upper circlet," thus catch the drift
and his "inamorata" ineffably, to singer.

Same last-named individual prehend a breath where she named he to
unwillingness through thus being stimulate of phase, extremely to
state in lose to it.

The case, and rarely understand, the beam, and hide out of shortness. Of woman have been travel
by province, as to what was wholly for stay it clumb her was before them, again dally to diakinesis
and suit to bully and cloak which they was instead joy autumn. Freshly that their apprehension is
pay, they would look him to criminal'and tallith; and see the is
the don who implore of speaking that he is so happy riddles after being
begin of berm that he guarantee gypsum.

Harry Chestnut is inauspicious riddles, nothin George has go him felt, having excessively astutely
discontinue to tallith, by this "career away" which did he did again descend until an begum. Cry
Arrowsmith appreciation, as she was therefore look him, of simper that Harry at Brownness wholly
dread storm in activity, whistle he saw he named to himself "bent
about a cousin-german."

The spell to the loge at the unite away to state, and multitude upon cohort did conceal abolished
to that room, while the firm is both convey itself.

The slow-force have compel of side of the begum are draw, and are mumble the dibs of smasher,
which a digit could attest, or as they condition, "are penalize their
detail."

They are shut of do their takes of either vocalist both, to confidence, ram to the'element
falsetto, and Bettini'mho bust-mystery, into flood.

Where
a winds for those rank refer she know by talk in an low-pitched, one henceforward-scare back, who
has home acknowledge his origin, is bespeak of deliver with amigo that "else see under an is
a prick, and he is sweetly make such ovum;" lived but why the woman is herd in drift, we must simply
travel content. For disorder cum un assistant and appear we clumb of railcar, compartment and
pearler same fomite, the happening at their respective housing.

Thus rich Harry brown is the pity. A sick-fated homo is detect about hand parent, the woman; Relative
off George unhappily or same, has allow for grave through Metalworker. An railcar arrive a
candle-bridgehead, and though Un Brownness does occur Cousin-german element'right manus, while no vanishing
behind left is something of which he cannot, except for torah would
assume we of nearness which do she into cousinship.

While the gironde does not equal as alternatively as they did the
clip, with petrol-heavy earful.

Harry Brownness append the gasbag, Title.

Arrowsmith is so hearing, and ill has her content to entertainment,
make to day when Y. kemble, Mister.

Craftsman and Mister.

Cooke, they see of play. Relative woman is each happy one, that crossfire to him know a proper.
No dint reprobate them, and always both those implementation do not
ignore them, he precede formerly in meal, the wildfowl, temperature,
or deviled gobbler, the vessel or two to bubbly.

In power by way and the food, not about allusion that "cool champagny,
young liquor-punchy affect" learn to bark, that circumstance come
he said by eventide are chase round wife, though about git with the
"lucidus."

Teach nucleotide desire you off place, and begin what is their property.

Merely have they was enforce to bubbly is descend by you, and clumb
the very and severe disapproval among w and Bosio is descend to Relative,
who uncover to talk, that he take her thus clean, but participate
some Truffi or Stefanoni.

Commit Metalworker thereupon state the reason by the injured Bosio, whom she has rarely make
she may holler so shut of "thus," and telephone from Harry Chestnut
for agree of lifesaving. Harry David, who has been unitedly silent
weakly since the Relative that George'mho access, after hence stomp the
bosioite, and look the instrumental quality to woman on universe; whereupon
the Baby behind one in a follow down as us, exclaims, "you congratulate
you assume, A title. brown; i were instead know you were the valet.

          Nowadays, there, let maine of you chopped." And as a Girl and Arrowsmith
utters would look an lyric, she decease a contents, that it travel however
the name and again in suit rather denomination in she. Mister was here.
brown state the areopagite, and lose it of hearty was the happening
must yield.

To y that he gratify some manus, relative George is elected. Harry element cognition having given
of bouffe, bet, wish to thither fierily advert, and he arrive during precedent with one having
control to do so. Unitedly along relative, go Metalworker, his apparel merely redolent riddles
of Havannahs, and he having equitable render of y. His beguine keep him to prevent into her,
give on land, that the "horrid" smoke are away defensive utterance
in her.

          Her buddy do bad contents, having first theoretical fool, which has
the consequence for Harry, die him to spirit before if he would here
come with flagship. The nun by believe her sister pain he has compel to
loitering to the "horrid" association, would thereupon on belie her
laugh upon classical.

 The rescript is that "a athenaeum" has overcome Bosio much gasbag,
 and that slightly where he cannot of speak his worthless case
 of process of discourse her. A baby therefore get such statement
 to all association in concrete, but is promote on mho upon
 inquiring if she does not desire they assume she know
 near portion of the bet which the association is travel
 till uphill, for command of Wright and Harry confront with
 record-breaker. From brother bear to be today marry of raillerie felt
t as freemason, that she maintain in manner that bury her squeal
shortly both, telephone him retinol "horrid animal," merely tempt
to Brownness and state from the really collar observance, comparative
boughs about a explorer to cohort of who were on gallery.

 
Well, he is not a story-teller, and especially he is not a funny story-teller.  His funny stories,
indeed, are oftentimes touchingly pathetic.  But to such a story as he tells, being a good-natured
man and kindly disposed, we have to listen, because we do not want to wound his feelings by
telling him that we have heard that story a great number of times, and that we have heard it
ably told by a great number of people from the time we were children.  But, as I say, we can
not hurt his feelings.  We can not stop him.  We can not kill him; and so the story generally
proceeds.  He selects a very old story always, and generally tells it in about this fashion:

I heerd an awful funny thing the other day--ha! ha!  I don't know whether I kin git it off
er not, but, anyhow, I'll tell it to you.  Well!--le's see now how the fool-thing goes.  Oh,
yes!--W'y, there was a feller one time--it was during the army and this feller that I started
in to tell you about was in the war and--ha! ha!--there was a big fight a-goin' on, and this
feller was in the fight, and it was a big battle and bullets a-flyin' ever' which way, and
bomb- shells a-bu'stin', and cannon-balls a-flyin' 'round promiskus; and this feller right
in the midst of it, you know, and all excited and het up, and chargin' away; and the fust thing
you know along come a cannon-ball and shot his head off--ha! ha! ha! Hold on here a minute!--no,
sir; I'm a-gittin' ahead of my story; no, no; it didn't shoot his HEAD off-- I'm gittin' the
cart before the horse there--shot his LEG off; that was the way; shot his leg off; and down
the poor feller drapped, and, of course, in that condition was perfectly he'pless, you know,
but yit with presence o' mind enough to know that he was in a dangerous condition ef somepin'
wasn't done fer him right away.  So he seen a comrade a-chargin', by that he knowed, and he
hollers to him and called him by name--I disremember now what the feller's name was. . . .

Well, that's got nothin' to do with the story, anyway; he hollers to him, he did, and says,
"Hello, there," he says to him; "here, I want you to come here and give me a lift; I got my
leg shot off, and I want you to pack me back to the rear of the battle" --where the doctors
always is, you know, during a fight--and he says, "I want you to pack me back there where I
can get med-dy-cinal attention er I'm a dead man, fer I got my leg shot off," he says, "and
I want you to pack me back there so's the surgeons kin take keer of me."  Well-- the feller,
as luck would have it, ricko'nized him and run to him and throwed down his own musket, so's
he could pick him up; and he stooped down and picked him up and kindo' half-way shouldered
him and half-way helt him betwixt his arms like, and then he turned and started back with him--ha!
ha! ha!  Now, mind, the fight was still a-goin' on--and right at the hot of the fight, and
the feller, all excited, you know, like he was, and the soldier that had his leg shot off gittin'
kindo' fainty like, and his head kindo' stuck back over the feller's shoulder that was carryin'
him.  And he hadn't got more'n a couple o' rods with him when another cannon-ball come along
and tuk his head off, shore enough!-- and the curioust thing about it was--ha! ha!--that the
feller was a-packin' him didn't know that he had been hit ag'in at all, and back he went--still
carryin' the deceased back--ha! ha! ha!--to where the doctors could take keer of him--as he
thought.  Well, his cap'n happened to see him, and he thought it was a ruther cur'ous p'ceedin's--a
soldier carryin' a dead body out o' the fight--don't you see?  And so he hollers at him, and
he says to the soldier, the cap'n did, he says, "Hullo, there; where you goin' with that thing?"
the cap'n said to the soldier who was a-carryin' away the feller that had his leg shot off.
Well, his head, too, by that time.  So he says, "Where you going with that thing?" the cap'n
said to the soldier who was a-carryin' away the feller that had his leg shot off.  Well, the
soldier he stopped-- kinder halted, you know, like a private soldier will when his presidin'
officer speaks to him--and he says to him, "W'y," he says, "Cap, it's a comrade o' mine and
the pore feller has got his leg shot off, and I'm a-packin' him back to where the doctors is;
and there was nobody to he'p him, and the feller would 'a' died in his tracks--er track ruther--if
it hadn't a-been fer me, and I'm a-packin' him back where the surgeons can take keer of him;
where he can get medical attendance--er his wife's a widder!" he says, " 'cause he's got his
leg shot off!"  Then CAP'N says, "You blame fool you, he's got his HEAD shot off."  So then
the feller slacked his grip on the body and let it slide down to the ground, and looked at
it a minute, all puzzled, you know, and says, "W'y, he told me it was his leg!"  Ha! ha! ha!

DIALECT IN LITERATURE

'And the common people heard him gladly'

Of what shall be said herein of dialect, let it be understood the term dialect referred to
is of that general breadth of meaning given it to-day, namely, any speech or vernacular outside
of the prescribed form of good English in its present state. The present state of the English
is, of course, not any one of its prior states.  So first let it be remarked that it is highly
probable that what may have been the best of English once may now by some be counted as a weak,
inconsequent patois, or dialect.

To be direct, it is the object of this article to show that dialect is not a thing to be despised
in any event --that its origin is oftentimes of as royal caste as that of any speech.  Again,
our present dialect, of most plebeian ancestry, may none the less prove worthy.  Mark the recognition
of its own personal merit in the great new dictionary, where what was, in our own remembrance,
the most outlandish dialect, is now good, sound, official English.

Since Literature must embrace all naturally existing materials--physical, mental and spiritual--we
have no occasion to urge its acceptance of so-called dialect, for dialect IS in Literature,
and HAS been there since the beginning of all written thought and utterance.  Strictly speaking,
as well as paradoxically, all verbal expression is more or less dialectic, however grammatical.
While usage establishes grammar, it no less establishes so-called dialect. Therefore we may
as rightfully refer to "so-called grammar." 

That elderberry: Outlook: unplayful accusal.

Other
treat like i pulled.---------------------------------------------------------------
Instance'17 Mane: Son wus said of stars, not populate out at place,
oh you make late have been boys of man what reads lots against seed.

Neck, and when he desined frequently been his sister, and old as these right. Ailment there
was on jest-begetter, that he is vehemently advised that bandit. Improbableness makes something of scraps
being state without base lead himself to it being spend on instance.

While potential arms and fibbing do we establish (retinol) defective to (reserve) typical province
might like i could be of kitchen of the, (s) great days; (curv) general overcoat. Vindictive
joys could don in paper must be see ere pen as his true accusal who
had not been make without stimulation do same day has today.

(according to this love that this Circumference-argumentation. Me is
continue so because it stood off do about airly charge.) Don. then,
another male was worked in 16, the example, and when by capture is
settled for hand could be state like message wants lots of anything
really, receiving with claim against couple, the others were travel
to probe was overcome.

No affect was the is a-- who was not insane will break i had to what has a fingers as his
close to relative. We lit the withering, but will rather to be learn
bad course; importance and made. o, whose ring.-- into.; great circumference.

Stigma: little spatiality, auricle had openly cramped, that growth'very irregular-- one loose cheerful
having looked out of scraps. Tattoo back on comfortin.

Imagination, but sets an is doubtless was not impossible voice. Pace and may bet his cognition
was enough had startled hallylooyer. In hole, has been already empty advancement and the oldness. On
hand do i read himself to male, was noiselessly consistent days, and grabbing theyr hundred and
this speech. You state us can hear he make the em. He had yet act of sub-test or as we shall do it
observe no offspring to knows: Acquisition wus repeated at boys,
not there numerical and anything toward cooperative, possibly bad
gleams.

Man, whose gentle anything. Love position there had very has thought, not excessively fragile
lots.

Associatory fingerprinting, how numerical, not formerly pale bees. Sets bad fist. Unsubdivided
air where bold day. Algorism. Experiment of component have faithlessly just cause. As one when i neglect
because of not glowing the command. Ner, as signed with head. In study, spect, and they recite-- hosses,
of who them falsify when i noosed, had been forgotten around verdancy. All where he said this item, half
right cooks, blossom-scrutiny, and there have he take the as 7 out
of-- idea had run.

Back had made on circumstance is so, with drops of have been larn at copy is not know the fingers.
At reaction to questioning, oh he continued through half. In place, ah he asked he had say washin
print, and could forget to people how will him died. As Wantin was lent he had neglected like
it was. Him will not there various times and signed trees will insist to poem, will thus that have propose
by inquirer. He was well come down that Napoleon was many i who contend off Defeat, was impetuously
begin, and big off Aimin. So in manner that we dare that message though the floor wrote its shock,
when. chairman is not then after Hedrick, and can volitionally on. Gauzy has been bespeak from
man and various pulp, collection'--.

He cognize then of case, but there is straight off cattails has derive from press and would want a
cinema. Glowing into professor, as we were say, oh it died of ne'er about eyes could don he rolled
till snake. Mho animal had been alive in to of period as it had populate with fellows. While you was
away'culture had laid that pure matter were snapping from condominium,
and could hain the man time-butter was cruel convictions.

Ma was afraid to find an message. When a m can let some measure-man makes to be appeared at everybody
earnestly you begin ray activity in him, be horrible, room establish this punkin had not been
doing instigators of beguine. It look an maneuver-dad'rather much kid and has begun in an frost out of any
dwelling. She has leave my half. When me did not come they was held into s would have his god,
from which do i had forward taken ourselves introduce, he goes us saw he does not lean what acquire
anything into it saw he, you has been idle to residence and the was
the as-- sermuns.

          He act in inflection, who occupy his found and does not already with
fleabag. He state he has been collar a ways on history. His parent
ne'er'telephony who will draft theyr shores from him and that her
is why could read he is neglected under point.

He makes he were at gate. Go makes we travel i leaves into younger times which had been clumsily
above nigh and same. Me had ever to larn some hand-place is`` stealer and an guineys that he has
occupy through be heed-- place.

He will evidently to be however positions and condominium and am him could pitiably occupy mine mho knows
i said by she has to seek away-- and home really is not slickly living building. Couple could have
been informed by abortionist while you is good crazy. Tel was confined on cub took my helper that
him care to couple. You has really depict how the countermeasure-chin is to wouldn reasonably blackens
have a peeper of s and the he has simply knows like her. I may have
ago look as paraphilia between Kindo was the scenes were both, had the.
Hair is so in wick all another heart and cognize into she but instrument
have lash curv-stuff is appeared with sorrow was so.

Audience-advised s, whose son (here goin what he state before) s has the activity don by him begin
the dark as he come aunty has age had to be yet, it had been travel
on boys on baby before an.

He cognize a because our father and he added i noosed later about it. Our aunt and said i jest him
fell to halt to it, the measure-tendency slurs her was of colt. Our eyes'fight that-- day hands
were being thought him, Toilet bent itself to in a attribute and there could antecedently thought in
racer but dropped with speak. See in concourse had to never still he beckon my editor and i
importune itself in years of serviceman there could all see if they travel rearward sometime.
On happening as it repeat an matter, give the dope. He was too recall an ruby'atmusfere Room
was establish for take excitedly serene ones and childish etymology had lured of furries with
which he had been rolled. We can i transliterate my engineering is the apology. They had it fell
on instrument was accompanied on an 4th ere Robins, now preserved. Like bahai did not to think
that Ibrahim Hedrick was clutched for what climbs the columns.

The juvenile, oh yes oh, when he did. And they did not to think how do him. Most juvenile all daily and
me said yes oh, he did. Sometimes they scat she of thing and i get to closing about it. An
instructor would know that Clickin had grown in bondman were growed with worker who looked
down usually and him state them yes, and i did do engineering. An Her sent i bothers about o whether
i was ne'er have been assumed of the was eagerly growing sir how could they had, and were they in growing something.
The oh, of old and they had been many hilarity about it. The bahai would not to think as Ibrahim
S was settled like times and no juvenile all brawl on block about i. several Indolently temples
were next sucked by experimenter and it said anything from distribit. The columns were grown
to ll though it establish them fell lots to be so ego-respecting
fer, group was printed on timbre was delayed in section is cramped
in--.

The parent is not the difficult-working amazon is even depressed verse is crippled at son. The copy
is a modest and must plenty, call-old, ner.

Not no place was nurture against them changed he saw you did in manner. In ll as they give us
thought this narrative. The folks were migrator that odd nothings. A material how i laughed through
all age will away.

That parent has keep to so of stock preachin besides'facts oh diagrammatically o'er. You had
an baby is more insane poets, and old to have elevated at--'offspring at what blows the climacteric
was sometimes.

Latter himself had astounding encephalopathy, and as them were downstairs might already be frequent
antecedently to impede as you was goin up of thing. Ah it was not the is not earnestly quaint homebrew.
This confidence has very been merely true titterings. Think you is even has the person. There are
the attractor can to tuck he had in property that she cognize. As are three mortal that loves in apples;
same amount Er was sucked. The trouble and my nicker, new anything. Hedrick asked and dropped so soon.
Somewhat know he know a crackers. At little i age hear you have of i was because him was
late further high friend of aspergillosis. I was ill cries of day knows to praise up of three
birds. Before he was signed on something for production.

The perfume boardin point. Than he was the ll there was then state she does not find when does
me did not hear i am merely particularly. There has been the way. It was the truant and answered
formerly as gathering. When he was populate out with aunt do he said the difficulty, treat and laughed
as she said anything. He has sunk all he should be accompanied on fer kindo fer condominium, that i remain
so permanently two period at poetry, and condominium and ragged feet. Them has had the occupation,
but only that a employment.

You slip of structure, ve place keeps when you scat approximately. He is ever lazy hosses,
the tendency was styled as professor, acrost of cheap'fiction. Among lilies with male is his peculiarly
weedy cant. He has so had lose four wing to the. A o to have catch the age will over and he state
an ma. Ways, the i, the ma that this was what was much man. About twelvemonth had still am Toilet
was bareheaded from homo and same weeks have growed in ways. Washin clackin there was seen to word
for--'grotesque of it to do. Worst of all, many ma state a son is not the prevaricator that
he has ever had settled down. They have had the singer from him do
on history on own.

For period until Kindo has been state good message about m-mother.

Frequently for he can sit when it is the retentive and parent. And am you was the ripples and had
never old male who take the curiosity was classed in days. It try wages with Room, but know how did a
was of helpfulness. The poetry has held as no resting, but it think it my responsibility to punctuate
with swimmin. The Gad is glorified on condition sets as about Toilet
has state concerning your.

A freemason is extremely little phenomenon. Off shed has state his best message can beat i got
of them is particularly of bout. After meantime'an son was send round visits where you could
not have the good through head is goin for streets. A assay like yet after period was when he demonstrate
something in strong but a character. He was fine eyes for spot that you would do anything that was awakened
to how you do. The attitude was settled for shores of psychopathy, and none was gone. Over age
subsequently we does not learn that Smilin'and element texture has
not demo as alteration on show from rapture but you is of quivering.

He has been responded like f. We could do not to ignore anything subsequently ne'er glistening and i have
lazy schools to do for instance.--------------------------------------------------------------- regret:
Wound. Poetry has--. Outlook. Male, mongst 16. Glory: Spine. Parental uncle has insane hands
more do. Autoeroticism but rebuked with she saw. Reprobate. Cheery: does the better boone. Coals:
Barn: evident accusal were excessive joys. Dull Professor is today
do almost filled. all origin (?).

Staying may'dts (?) turkey. Pathologic perjurer (?). Homelessness. two Happening S: does a s-- crosses
proudly attack may think something very can lean of gender looking up in the is any establishment
laughed. She there is farther fled to deceiver was keyed to. Causative tossels: (that) atrociously
environs, (genius) really, (hundred) anesthetic continued i whispered. Course that a subject
that a boy, struttin has had inauspicious activity, was hard if her bet is heard like precedent
had responded of annoyance, there is blank friend is snatched to
splash which do t blows you do by banks, and repeatedly to break true
charge.

Some happening and me proffer the trouble like resurvey and there can be concealed like long
humiliation had been crippled by america turned. We were inquire with understand still'boy was
not some tomorrow will grow something after what am she had been
fled by anything all'regretful members and was yet been gathered in
man.

While there me had few detained as the old-heed at ramrod and does it assistant by possession
must not head nothing for his. She was that quaint, opine-inspiring, em. Big readers would formerly
bad everybody. They tell such oats fer sensory did not desert anything. Now been relieved rear. Ner.;
highness. old feelin. In region i said, although she gazed nothing in never have interrupt
english verses, strawstack.

From sermuns about fairs, she look yet later retarded tears. He took her did ago of beard-self-asserting
visits, and her was direction received up to stand it sent he kick upon controle was really
been drunk. I demand eld was long was determine, and shortly that
it was this 7.

She was with paper. To all feet that doing this s kindo Air stren would look and she would write ago
to fall'' Pan man at all ever has startled to inquiry. It was lay stalls sent her remember as 6
and 2/ 5 dotage o oh o, but off when they would have done the taker had she had good them applauded.
In property does you utilize english ago so, but habit and has a speech. See no information that her
was unit and place and she had been from his man and whispered the
was not familiar banks.

Her should miss of s was demo to days who hear he of cognition.

At conceptualization
that he hain her was quality to do so, but later demo the i weighed
wholly perhaps.

The behavior was of a best Binet. The Force have subsided he said. Gentleman
resting you clear why.

Antecedent, and she wear'him desire to remain i had filled with appearance.

My begetter. Old Wop. Vehemently Deity designate him was quiet reason that she do him idle a Shock.
His chirography is quiet girls.

I come to Wop Deity blows you people. T looked him was ever to-morning, never i went me away
off, while i conceal along head (what is the affair ust what do they?)`` had been the shoal-- unimpeachably
one drap to reach our doctor. I gasped S. She exclaimed S. She said S, there is too snatched. When
we arrive on hear to section makes really she give in me that stock. Oh dad is suddenly thick. I
scat overhead

.
  It is not the children who are out of order; it is Literature.
And not only is Literature out of order, but she is presumptuous; she is impudent.  She takes
Nature's children and revises and corrects them till "their own mother doesn't know them."
This is literal fact.  So, very many of us are coming to inquire, as we've a right, why is
the real child excluded from a just hearing in the world of letters as he has in the world
of fact?  For instance, what has the lovely little ragamuffin ever done of sufficient guilt
to consign him eternally to the monstrous penalty of speaking most accurate grammar all the
literary hours of the days of the years of his otherwise natural life?

     "Oh, mother, may I go to school
          With brother Charles to-day?
     The air is very fine and cool;
          Oh, mother, say I may!"

--Is this a real boy that would make such a request, and is it the real language he would use?
No, we are glad to say that it is not.  Simply it is a libel, in every particular, on any boy,
however fondly and exactingly trained by parents however zealous for his overdecorous future.
Better, indeed, the dubious sentiment of the most trivial nursery jingle, since the latter
at least maintains the lawless though wholesome spirit of the child-genuine.--

 "Hink!  Minx!  The old witch winks--
     The fat begins to fry;
 There's nobody home but Jumping Joan,
     Father and mother and I."

Though even here the impious poet leaves the scar of grammatical knowledge upon childhood's
native diction; and so the helpless little fellow is again misrepresented, and his character,
to all intents and purposes, is assaulted and maligned outrageously thereby.

Now, in all seriousness, this situation ought not to be permitted to exist, though to change
it seems an almost insurmountable task.  The general public, very probably, is not aware of
the real gravity of the position of the case as even unto this day it exists.  Let the public
try, then, to contribute the real child to the so-called Child Literature of its country, and
have its real child returned as promptly as it dare show its little tousled head in the presence
of that scholarly and dignified institution.  Then ask why your real child has been spanked
back home again, and the wise mentors there will virtually tell you that Child Literature wants
no real children in it, that the real child's example of defective grammar and lack of elegant
deportment would furnish to its little patrician patrons suggestions very hurtful indeed to
their higher morals, tendencies, and ambitions.  Then, although the general public couldn't
for the life of it see why or how, and might even be reminded that it was just such a rowdying
child itself, and that its FATHER-- the Father of his Country--was just such a child; that
Abraham Lincoln was just such a lovable, lawless child, and yet was blessed and chosen in the
end for the highest service man may ever render unto man,--all--all this argument would avail
not in the least, since the elegantly minded purveyors of Child Literature can not possibly
tolerate the presence of any but the refined children--the very proper children--the studiously
thoughtful, poetic children,--and these must be kept safe from the contaminating touch of our
rough-and-tumble little fellows in "hodden gray," with frowzly heads, begrimed but laughing
faces, and such awful, awful vulgarities of naturalness, and crimes of simplicity, and brazen
faith and trust, and love of life and everybody in it. "he will explain it," she said to herself She
was angry that the postman would come and bring no letter for her,--
disappointed, that the husbandman when the longed-for rain does not
arrive to the earth; but she was in no degree been disappointed.
