EFFIE MAURICE

OR

What do I Love Best

A TALE

London GALL AND INGLIS, 25 PATERNOSTER SQUARE; AND EDINBURGH.

Contents.

CHAPTER

   I. THE FIRST COMMANDMENT

  II. PLANS PROPOSED

 III. NEW YEAR'S DAY

  IV. THE MISER

   V. THE POOR WIDOW

  VI. GENEROSITY AND JUSTICE

 VII. THE NEW BOOK

VIII. ANOTHER OF MR. MAURICE'S LESSONS

  IX. THE FUNERAL

EFFIE MAURICE

OR

What do I Love Best

CHAPTER I.

'Thou shalt have no other gods before me.'

'Mother,' said little Effie Maurice, on a Sabbath evening in winter, 'Mr L---- said to-day
that we are all in danger of breaking the first commandment,--do you think we are?'

'Did not Mr L. give you his reasons for thinking so?'

'Yes, mother.'

'Didn't you think he gave good reasons?'

'I suppose he did, but I could not understand all he said, for he preached to men and women.
Perhaps he thought children were in no danger of breaking it.'

'Well, bring your Bible--'

'O mother, I can say all the commandments, every word. The first is, "Thou shalt have no other
gods before me." I thought this was for the Burmans and Chinese, and all those who worship
idols where the missionaries go.'

'The poor heathen are not the only idolaters in the world, my child; we have many of them in
our own Christian land.'

'What! here, mother? Do people worship idols in this country?'

'Yes, my dear, I fear we do.'

'We do, mother? You don't mean to say that you, and papa, and Deacon Evarts, and all such good
people, worship idols?'

'Do you suppose, Effie, that all the idols or false gods in the world are made of wood and stone?'

'Oh no, mother, I read in my Sunday-school book of people's worshipping animals, and plants,
and the sun, and moon, and a great many of the stars.'

'And gold and silver, and men, women and children, did you not?'

'Yes mother.'

'Well, if a man loves gold or silver better than he loves God, does it make any difference
whether he has it made into an image to pray to, or whether he lays it away in the shape of
silver dollars and gold eagles?'

Effie sat for a few moments in thought, and then suddenly looking up, replied,--'Men don't
worship dollars and eagles.'

'Are you sure?' inquired Mrs Maurice.

'I never heard of any one who did.'

'You mean you never heard of one who prayed to them; but there are a great many people who
prefer money to anything else, and who honour a fine house, fine furniture, and fine dress,
more than the meek and quiet spirit which God approves.'

'And then money is the god of such people, I suppose, and they are the ones that break the
first commandment?'

'Not the only ones, my dear; there are a great many earthly gods, and they are continually
leading us away from the God of heaven. Whatever we love better than Him, becomes our God,
for to that we yield our heart-worship.'

'I never thought of that before, mother. Yesterday, Jane Wiston told me that her mother didn't
visit Mrs Aimes because she was poor; and when I told her that you said Mrs Aimes was very
pious, she said it did not make any difference, ladies never visited there. Is Mrs Wiston's
god money?'

'If Mrs Wiston, or any other person, honours wealth more than humble, unaffected piety, she
disobeys the first commandment. But in judging of others, my dear, always remember that you
cannot see the heart, and so, however bad the appearance may be, you have a right to put the
best possible construction on every action.'

'How can I believe that Mrs Wiston's heart is any better than her actions, mother?'

'In the first place, Jane might have been mistaken, and money may have nothing to do with her
mother's visits; and if she is really correct, Mrs Wiston may never have considered this properly,
and so at least she deserves charity. I desire you to think a great deal on this subject, and
when you understand it better, we will talk more about it.'

'I think I understand it now, mother. Every thing we love better than the God of heaven becomes
our god, and if we don't bow down to pray to it, we give it our heart-worship, as you said,
and that is quite as wicked. But after all, mother, I don't think there is any danger of my
breaking the first commandment.'

'Do you remember the text Harry repeated at the table this morning? "Let him that thinketh
he standeth, take heed lest he fall."'

Effie looked very thoughtful for a moment, and then laying her face in her mother's lap, she
said: 'It is not because I am so good that I think so, mother; I know I am very wicked, but
I am sure that I love my heavenly Father better than any thing else.'

'I am glad to believe you do,' said Mrs Maurice, drawing the child nearer to her and kissing
her cheek. 'I am persuaded that calmly and deliberately you would not prefer the world to Him.
But perpetual distrust of self, with constant trust in God, is your only ground of safety.
Those who do not fall, may for a moment slip, and you with all the rest of us must watch and pray.'

CHAPTER II.

PLANS PROPOSED.

The conversation that Effie Maurice had had with her mother made a very deep impression on
her mind; but still, with all the confidence of one who has had but few trials, she was grieved
that any one should suppose she could for a moment forget her heavenly Father, or prefer any
thing to His glory and honour. She repeated what her mother had said to her brother Harry,
and he increased her self-confidence by recalling a great many little sacrifices she had made,
which he was quite sure other young persons would not do.

'And now, Effie,' said the kind-hearted brother, 'we will talk no more about this, for it makes
you very sober. Remember that to-morrow is New Year's day, and we've got the money to spend
that Aunt Norton sent us, so we must be out early, or all the prettiest things will be sold.
I went by Mr T.'s shop to-night, and it was all lighted up so that I could see great sticks
of candy, almost as big round as my wrist, and jars of sweetmeats, and there was a rocking
horse all saddled and bridled, and the neatest little whip you ever did see, and such a little
rifle--but I forgot, girls don't mind those things; let me think--I dare say there were dolls,
though I didn't look for them, and then such a pretty little rocking-chair all cushioned with
purple silk, just about big enough for dolly, and heaps of other nice things--so we must be
out early, Effie.'

'Harry--'

'What is it, Effie?'

'I was thinking--'

'What about? Do you want something I haven't mentioned? I dare say it is there.'

'No, I was thinking--I--I believe I will give my money to the missionaries.'

'Now, Effie!'

'Then I shan't make a god of it.'

'But Aunt Norton gave you this to buy some pretty things for yourself.'

'I know it, but--'

'And you have given ever so much to the missionaries.'

'Well, Harry, I don't know that I need any new toys.'

'When you see Mr T.'s shop--'

'I don't want to see Mr T.'s shop, that would be going in the way of temptation.'

Harry was silent a few moments,--he was two years older than Effie, and although sometimes
dazzled by appearances, as in the case of the attractive toy shop, when he waited to think,
his judgment was usually very good for one so young. At last he looked up with a smile, 'I've
thought it out, Effie, we don't need any new toys; we might buy books for our little library,
but father has promised us two or three more soon. Then our subscriptions to the Missionary
Society, and the Bible Society, and the Colporteur Society, are paid (to be sure it wouldn't
hurt us to give a little more), but I have just thought what to do with this money (that is,
yours and mine together, you know), which I think is better than all the rest.'

'What is it?'

'We'll make a New Year's present of it.'

'To whom?'

'Can't you think?'

'To father, or mother?'

'No, I should love to buy them something, but they would rather not.'

'To old Phillis, then?'

'Old Phillis!--it would be a good notion to buy her a gown, wouldn't it, but I was thinking
of John Frink.'

'You didn't mean to give it to him, I hope, such an idle, good-for-nothing boy as he is?'

'He isn't idle and good-for-nothing now, Effie. Since he began to go to the Sunday school he's
as different as can be. Now if we could put our money together, and help him to go to school
this winter (he can't even read the Bible, Effie,) I think it would do more good than anything
else in the world.'

'Perhaps it would, but I never liked John Frink very well. He will learn to read the Bible
at the Sunday school, and if he did know any more, I'm not sure he'd make a good use of it.'

'Perhaps he wouldn't, but we could hope, Effie, and pray, and then we should have the pleasure
of knowing that our duty was done, as Mr L. said the other day. If John Frink should become
reformed, only think of how much good he might do in that wicked family, and among the wicked
boys here in the city, and then when he gets to be a man--'

'But if he isn't reformed, Harry?'

'That is just what Mr S. said to father, the other day, when he asked him for money to buy
tracts for boatmen on the canal--"If they don't read them," said he.

'Father told him that if we did our duty faithfully, it was all that is required of us, and
we must leave the results in the hands of God. Now I think just so of John Frink, only that
I can't help believing that he will reform. Now, maybe, all the money you have given this year
will do good, but perhaps this to John Frink most of all.'

'I believe you are right, Harry,' said Effie, 'but you will give me to-night to think about it.'

'Oh yes, to be sure, you could not give the money, with your whole heart, unless you believed
it was to do good, and so you may think just as long as you please. Now your kiss, Effie, for
I must go to bed. We will be up early, if we don't go to Mr T.'s shop.'

CHAPTER III.

NEW YEAR'S DAY.

Harry Maurice was out 'bright and early,' wishing everybody a 'Happy New Year,' and making
them happy at least for the moment, by the expression of his ruddy, laughing face. We love
to see in children cheerfulness and contentment. Harry's head was full of plans for doing good,
and though more than half of them were visionary, they seemed realities then, and so being
in good humour with himself, he could not fail of being so with everybody else. Effie refused
to go with him to Mrs Frink's, for she had her own little gifts to dispense, but she consented
to take a walk with him in the afternoon, and even to call at Mr T.'s shop, for she concluded
there could be no danger in looking at the toys after they had disposed of their money.

Harry's account of his reception at Mrs Frink's was anything but satisfactory to Effie, for
although he evidently endeavoured to make the best of it, he said not a single word of John's
gratitude. 'I am afraid, Effie,' he rather mischievously whispered, 'if you had gone with me
to Mrs Frink's you would have thought dirt was her god, for I believe she loves it better than
anything else.'

'O Harry, I am sure it is wicked to make fun--'

'I didn't mean to make fun, Effie, but I'm sure I couldn't help thinking of the old man in
Pilgrim's Progress with the muck rake, refusing the crown, all the time I was there.'

'Father told me that the man with the muck rake, meant the miser.'

'Well, I suppose it does, but I should think it might mean any body that is not a Christian,
for such people, you know, are rejecting a heavenly crown for worldly things, which are in
reality worth about as much as the trash the old man is raking together in the picture.' Effie
stared at her brother in complete astonishment, for she could not but wonder how so small a
head could contain such a wondrous amount of knowledge. Harry endured a stare for a moment
with considerable dignity, but he was naturally a modest lad, and finally added, 'That is pretty
nearly the substance of what Frank Ingham told me about it--I can't remember the words quite.'

After dinner was over, and Harry and Effie had distributed the remnants of it among several
poor families that lived on an adjoining street, they set out on their walk. The day was extremely
cold, but clear and still, and altogether as beautiful as any day in the whole year. Effie
in cloak, hood, and muff, seemed the very picture of comfort as she walked along beside her
brother in his equally warm attire, towards Mr T.'s shop.

'Are you cold? What makes you shiver so?' inquired Harry. Effie did not answer, but she drew
her hand from her muff and pointed with her gloved finger to a little girl who stood a few
yards from her, stamping her feet, and clapping her red bare hands, and then curling them under
her arms as if to gain a little warmth from thence. 'Poor thing!' said Harry, 'I should think
she would freeze, with nothing but that old rag of a handkerchief about her shoulders, and
that torn muslin bonnet. I don't wonder you shivered, Effie, it makes me cold to look at her.'

'Let us see if she wants anything,' said Effie.

By this time the attention of the little girl was attracted by the children's conversation
and glances, and she came running towards them, crying at every step, 'Give me a sixpence, please?'

'We have no money, not even a penny,' said Harry, 'are you very hungry?' The girl began to
tell how long it was since she had had anything to eat, but she talked so hurriedly, and used
so many queer words, that the two children found it very difficult to understand her.

'She is in want, no doubt,' whispered Harry to his sister, 'but father would say, it was best
to give her food and clothing, not money.'

'I wish I had a sixpence, though,' said Effie.

The wealthy and the gay, the poor and the apparently miserable, went pouring by in crowds,
and some did not hear the beggar-child's plea, others that heard did not heed it, while many
paused from idle curiosity to gaze at her, and a few flung her a penny, and passed on. Harry
and Effie too went on, frequently looking back and forming little plans for the good of the
child, until their attention was attracted by other objects of compassion or admiration. Sleighs
were continually dashing past them, drawn by beautiful horses, and filled with the forms of
the young, the gay, and the happy. Old men, bowed down by the weight of years, hobbled along
on the pavements, their thin blue lips distorted by a smile--a smile of welcome to the year
that, perhaps, before its departure, would see them laid in the grave--and busy tradesmen,
with faces strongly marked by care, or avarice, or anxiety, jostled by them; ladies too, in
gay hats and large rich shawls, or the more comfort-seeking in cloaks and muffs; and poor women,
with their tattered clothing drawn closely around their shrinking forms, were hurrying forward
apparently with the same intent. Every variety of the human species seemed crowded on those
narrow pavements.

Harry and Effie were only a few rods from Mr T.'s door, when Mr Maurice overtook them, on his
way to some other part of the city. He smiled, as he always did, on his children, then putting
a few pence into Effie's hand, whispered something about 'temptation money,' and passed on.

'I shan't be tempted, though,' said the child, holding the coin before her brother's eyes.

'No, Effie,' replied the boy, 'it isn't wrong to spend this money for yourself, so you can't
be tempted to do wrong with it.

Harry and Effie were as much pleased as any one, and some, who had seen with what readiness
they had parted with their money in the morning, would have wondered at their taste for toys;
but these children had one talent which a great many grown people as well as children would
do well to imitate. It was not absolutely necessary that they should possess a thing in order
to enjoy it. They had been taught when very young, to distinguish beautiful things from those
that were merely novel, and although they liked (as I believe is natural) to call things their
own, they could be pleased with what was calculated to produce pleasure, without envying its
possessor, just as you would look upon a beautiful sunset, or a fine landscape, without thinking
of becoming its owner. But Effie had a little money to spend, and this occasioned a great deal
of deliberation, for to tell the truth, the little girl was so pleased with her day's work,
that she was still determined on self-denial.

'Take care,' whispered Harry, as he watched her examining some trifles which he was pretty
sure were intended for old Phillis, 'take care, Effie, that you don't get proud of your generosity--there
is more than one way to make self a god.'

Effie blushed, and calling for some nuts, threw her money on the counter, saying to her brother,
'We can share them together in the evening.' The nuts were scarce stowed away in reticule and
muff, when a poorly-clad young woman, very pale and thin, bearing in her arms an infant still
paler, pressed her way through the throng, and gained the counter. She inquired for cough lozenges.
It was a long time before she could be attended, but she stood very patiently, though seemingly
scarce able to support the weight of her own person. Harry involuntarily glanced around the
shop for a chair, and as he did so, his eye rested on a bright-faced little girl, close beside
his sister, who was choosing and rejecting a great many pretty toys, and now and then casting
a glance at the well-filled purse in her hand, as if to ascertain after each purchase the state
of her finances.

'Beautiful!' she exclaimed, her eye glistening with pleasure at the sight of the purple cushioned
rocking-chair of which Harry had told his sister.

'Is that all?' inquired a sad, low voice, and again Harry's eye turned to the poor woman who
was purchasing the lozenges.

'Yes, ma'am, to be sure,' replied the pert shopkeeper, 'and a pretty large all too--what could
you expect for a penny?'

The poor woman made no reply, but the hurried glance she gave her infant with its accompanying
sigh, seemed to say, 'God help my poor baby then!'

Harry involuntarily thrust his hand into his pocket, but he quickly withdrew it, and glanced
at the little girl who was purchasing the rocking-chair.

'This chair has cost so much,' she said, addressing the shopkeeper, 'that I have only a shilling
left.'

'Oh, then,' whispered Effie, emboldened by her brother's looks of anxiety, 'give it to the
poor woman with the sick baby.'

The little girl stared at her somewhat rudely, then turning to the woman, exclaimed, 'What!
that one, with the horrid looking bonnet!' and, shaking her head, laughingly replied, 'Thank
you, Miss, I have a better use for it.'

Effie was really distressed. The poor woman looked so pale and sad, and yet so meek and uncomplaining
withal, that both brother and sister found themselves strangely interested.

'O how I wish we could do something for her,' whispered Harry. 'Will you please exchange my
nuts for cough lozenges?' inquired Effie in a faltering voice, of the shopkeeper.

'Rather too busy, Miss.'

'But it will oblige me very much.'

'Happy to oblige you on any other day, Miss, but we really have no time for exchanges now.'
By this time the poor woman had gained the door, and Effie, looking round, observed that her
brother too was missing.

'He followed the woman with the baby,' said the little girl who had purchased the rocking-chair;
then pursing up her mouth with an expression as near contempt as such a pretty mouth could
wear, she inquired, 'Is she your aunt?'

The angry blood rushed in a flood to Effie's face, but she quickly subdued it, and with ready
thought replied, 'No, my sister.'

It was now the turn of the stranger girl to blush, and at the same time she cast upon her new
companion a slight glance of surprise. She then turned over with her fingers her new toys,
glanced at the rocking-chair, and seemingly dissatisfied with all, again turned to Effie.

'Please give her this,' she said, putting the remaining shilling in her hand. 'I know what
you mean, my mother taught me that, but--she is dead now.'

'If Harry finds where the poor woman lives,' returned Effie, 'we will go there together.' The
little girl seemed to waver for a moment, then said hastily, 'No, I must go home--give the
money to her,' and hurried away as fast as the crowd would permit. In a few moments Harry returned.
He had found out where the poor woman lived, but it was a great distance, and he was too considerate
to leave his sister alone. Harry was not one of those philanthropists who, in doing a great
amount of good, become blind to trifles; for his father had taught him, that duties never interfere
with each other, and he knew that he owed Effie every care and attention. I have often observed
that those children, who are the most kind and considerate to brothers and sisters, always
shew more justice and generosity to others, than those who think such attentions of but little
importance.

Harry found out but little more of the woman, than that she was poor, and sick, and friendless.
Her baby too, her only comfort, was wasting away before her eyes, whether of disease or for
lack of food, she did not tell, and there was none to help her.

'We will speak to father about her,' said Harry, as they proceeded homeward, 'perhaps he can
do something for them,--it is a sweet little baby, Effie, with a skin clear and white, and
eyes--oh, you never saw such eyes! they look so soft and loving, that you would think the poor
thing knew every word you said, and how I pitied it. I could hardly help crying, Effie.'

'I am glad you followed the poor woman.'

'So am I. But Effie, you don't know how vexed I was with that selfish little miss, that bought
the rocking-chair.'

'Harry!'

'Now, don't go to taking her part, Effie, it will do no good, I can tell you; she is the most
selfish and unfeeling little girl that I ever saw. Because the woman wore an old bonnet, she
couldn't help her--only think of that! how mean!'

'She--O Harry! now I know what mother meant when she talked to me so much about having charity
for people, and told me that we could not always judge the heart by the actions. I thought
as badly of her as you at first, but I'm sure now she is not unfeeling.'

'Well, if she has any feeling, I should like to see her shew it, that's all. I tell you, Effie,
if anybody ever made a god of self, it is that little girl we saw to-night. She thought her
gratification of more consequence than that poor baby's life.'

'No, Harry, she is one of the thoughtless ones mother tells us so much about. If you had seen
her when she gave me this money,' putting the silver piece into her brother's hand, 'you would
never call her unfeeling.'

'Did you tease her for it?'

'No, I didn't ask her again, for I did feel a little vexed--yes, a good deal so, at first,
but, Harry, I don't feel vexed now, I am sorry for her. There was a tear in her eye, I am pretty
sure, though she was ashamed to have me see it, and her lips quivered, and she looked--oh,
so sad, when she told me her mother was dead; I wish you could have seen her, Harry.'

'I would rather not see her again, for I can't bear proud people--' Effie was about interrupting
her brother in defence of the little stranger girl, but at that moment a new object attracted
their attention. 

Thirty-Fifth Chapter

In a room that looked out towards the garden, Hanka sat at the piano and played a Haydn's Sonata.
Beatrice was sitting in the corner of moderately large, backlit by the setting sun still Space
flipped in a photograph album and yawned from time to time. "This invitation was completely unnecessary,
"she said during a break between an Andante and an Allegro," especially as woodpecker is not
coming. What are we doing with Anson alone and what he does for us?

This is he was still rude and can wait. "

Hanka turned slowly to the chair. He glanced at the clock smacked with the lips and said, wanted
"We Podoliner once but the two together have, but you wanted it.

That your friend would cancel woodpecker, one could not assume so. Other interested Ansorge
me more. "

Beate hovered impatiently with her foot. "I'm bored with it," she said. "I'm bored at all. If we
had only gone already.

How long is it until tomorrow morning! I want each Day be else where, and you, are you sleeping
by day and night. "

And between a smile and a gnashing of teeth she continued: "Have you the tickets ordered? "

With his own dangling step Hanka walked on the wide side of the room. He did not answer. For
several days he was nameless, changing feelings moved. With the strength of his whole being,
he hung on Beatrice, but he spied continuously rebellion in its interior. For a person like Hank
is the manifestation of a feeling not the means to awaken faith in them, for him it was important
to the way an apparent drought can turn to. Anyone who does it with understanding, made possible
could have it all. It had become undeniably that Beatrice did not see what you see, had not felt
what they would have to feel that their perpetual motion was nothing more than a Escape him.
Anger was often the rest of his dark reflection. The attraction increases with the square of
the distance, he used to say ironically, and with his pedantic thoroughness he wanted to see
exactly which properties it by Beate become so indispensable.

But here, made his thoughts stop, and a tenderness as they knew only be sealed on all sides heart,
he saw again the strong and capricious nature of the child in it, which his own, weak become
will be had to throw with equal humor.

»Trabs already said about like a bear," Beate, but jumped at the same
time, as it sounded had.

Soon joined Arnold and Hank was with hearty handshake, by Beate greeted with a bit clumsy cold.
All three sat down at once to the table. Outside had The sky darkened, thunder and wind blew
through the garden.

Hanka rose again, turned on the electric flames and asked Arnold
why he came so late.

"As punishment, you should really get nothing to eat," Beatrice said
angrily.

Arnold did not apologize. "I have hesitated until the last, if I should come," he said. "The
is not polite, Beate, but there is a reason. "

Beate started.

"He's always a reason," she said acidly.

"As an old friend you are too sharp," Hank remarked good-naturedly. He was happy actually Ansorge
that Arnold was sitting opposite him now, it seemed almost important to these people Watch and
see. From such wood carving are friends, he thought.

Under the thunder rolling in, they began to eat. Beate but soon put a knife and fork out, and
her face changed visibly in fear.

Yes, with the storms, "Hank said, frowning. "For a woman who grew up in the country is, that's shameful.
"

An extraordinary flash the lights of the room was pale. After the long thunder Beatrice rose
and muttered to himself bewildered.

Hanka also rose. He took Beatrice's hands and tried to calm her down. A second Lightning produced
a convulsive trembling of her body. Full-violence they encountered Hanka on its own, with a witch-like
expression, she screamed into the thunder: "I do not want I wanted
to show you, "and ran from the room.

Hanka followed her at once. After a while he came back, called her maid, and Arnold found himself
once again alone at the dining table.

He took less interest in this performance, as it was in his interest full essence. What came
from Beate slipped past him and mixed so little with his mind, such
as oil with the water.

Perhaps, however, was the play of the elements out there for him more appealing and touching as
the anguish of a little selfish soul. He walked slowly to the garden window, and by the light
of the flashes, he felt called upon bear truth in this house. And the behavior of beats, rather
than to vote compassionate, made him their whole person downright
suspicious.

Impartial and opened almost humorous, came back Hanka. "She is wrapped in bed linen and the ears
plugged, "he said. "I had to promise her that you will go soon. Have you ever had anything
to her? It is beyond me. Come, my friend eating we continue. I'm glad you're here and you will
not let go so quickly again. "

Frau Beate fears might leave me alone with you, "replied Arnold quietly and Hanka was followed
to the table.

Why? Why fear? She wanted to yourself that you were once with us. "Cheerful and full Appetite
lay Hanka meat and vegetables on the plate.

"I can explain to me," said Arnold. "Maybe they wanted to see just a matter of order how they must
behave towards me. "

Eh, what you have become a psychologist! However, what you say, has something for themselves. It
is women often want to have hated the close.

Therein lies a childish instinct to protect themselves. But it is ridiculous, if you agree
with the Beate. Beate is much too naive to do so. "

Arnold said nothing.

Hesitancy came over him. And he felt now from Hanka words clearly a complete ignorance. This
aroused in him a silent rage against the lying woman.

"It affected us, I would say aesthetically, if women are afraid of thunderstorms," Hanka went
away excited talk. "In a woman is something as elementary as in an electric cloud, and one might almost
think that nature is a joke of it makes to have burst their latent instincts against each other.
Like is for me more pleasant as depressing. "

A bluish lightning flashed through the room, cut off Hanka speech and the almost simultaneous
Thundering crash shook the walls and rattled the dishes.

"Why do not woodpeckers actually come from?" Said Arnold, as he looked towards the window,
to which the rain was whipped. "He told me first that he would be here. It I find only because I
saw him yesterday with his wife Beatrice in a closed car. "

Hanka looked up quickly and made a very much surprised. "So," he said briefly. He suddenly
remembered that he had appeared for the hours and unusual, Beate yesterday was spent at the dressmaker.
He shook his head and said with a uncertain and benevolent smile, "That you might deceive."

"I
am not mistaken," said Arnold, "though the curtains of the car just a moment were pushed back. "

Hanka stopped eating. Why she told me about it? he thought, as if still even by force to cheat. He leaned
back in his chair, opened his mouth, closed him, but again, without talking. On both sides
of the nose was a strange yellowish pallor produced.

"I thought you knew everything about what was between woodpecker and your wife," went to Arnold
relentless Ernst continued. He was leaning his elbows on the table and his head in his hand
Hanka, looking at not moving. "Both were in Podolin as man and woman, day and Night. I know and
would not tell you, if I do not know.

That's why you hear everything at once, so I do not torture. According to Specht they had
a relationship with the foreman Random deer on the property, that is, in the beginning, they
deceived the one with the other until the Obedient servant, she was
by blows.

Of which the maids knew when to tell us every day.

I have always said a voice that you are in darkness, because you saw a different Beate had,
perhaps not even wanted, it would have been honest. Thoughts engaged I am so forth, as hard as it is,
I think the life of a lie, others of truth, the two must be kept apart. That's all. "

While these words were the yellow spots on Hanka face increased steadily. He also looked unmoved
in the face of his opposite, and gradually he lost consciousness the fact that a man sitting there,
he saw only an off-white circle, he felt as if it was the moon, which was heruntergeglitten from
heaven to speak. However, he listened, listened. He felt a huge, twisted pain in the head, and
had finished as Arnold, slipped a thin, insipid smile on his lips. Arnold was silent and said
nothing Hanka, and they sat long in silence as the storm trailed off. Hanka finally moved his
Chair, leaned forward, as he was making a compliment and said in a hoarse voice and judicial
Sharpness, which he tore open the black eyes wide: "Evidence -"?

Arnold did not reply, he fixed his eyes in silence those Hanka. It was a superior, rigorous and elegant
look in his eyes as in his face and leaned Hanka back as if he would have forgotten his word.
He put a hand on the smooth Head, color returned to his cheeks and disappeared from it. He gave
a vague short sound, got up and as a sign of his text he lit a slow Cigar. Then he went silently
striding up and down. Arnold also left its place. "Goodbye, Doctor Hanka," he said, "Friend or
foe, and how you want to call me stands with you. "

Hanka turned his back, folded his arms and looked at the windows. But when Arnold turned to the
door, he walked towards him, looked at him with an incredible view and handed him to the damp
cold hand.

Thirty-sixth chapter

Hanka was continuing his walk across the room. He now thought not of himself, Beate yet, but
he turned his thoughts to the first person Arnolds. He envisioned to the Arnold, whom he met
in Podolin and held the objection to the now spoken to him.

He accused were from a plumb line to measure the depth of trust in this man. The lot fell far.
He had to recognize a mind that loved the honesty of it all. And finally he had to admit that
this man was out of sympathy for him, Hanka, to teach you to see. Consequently, I was blind, thought
Hanka. Violently he was looking for a haßartiges to ward off cold feeling against Arnold on
his own. How he might face, he could still do not believe. It seemed for a while fantastic,
is a doubt to yield to Beate. What leads him here? thought it sad and defiant. Pity? It would even
His truth is not true. How could he accept that, between us no mutual knowledge was? Hanka
self-esteem began to rear up. Perhaps he himself was despised and plays the traitor, he mused
in despair, but a shiver ran over his skin, as if it had touched
disgust.

Hundreds considerations burned his brain, by a hundred artifices he sought the face of the
Prosecutor, deface, he always shook his head and returned back to
himself: I was so blind!

And again he went up and down. He turned around her loud beats with all their faces, their gestures,
could linger all their words, to which he was recalled, began to study at their silence, and
finally it seemed to him as if each of these images, a mask skin
fell off, and he saw lack of love, in childish Robe veiled hypocrisy
among thousands of deceptive smile.

What should I do? escaped and he finally seemed to him that he must lie on the ground to years
only about thinking. Only now he was thinking that he could indeed go to Beate and that then
all must be decided. With the cruel logic, he convinced himself that he had referred the decision
only wanted to move. Is it really so bad after all? he murmured. A woman less for me good. The
crime is low on their side because it is not that I believed. Man the simplicity of the facts
may not engage.

Fraud or not fraud, is finally Matter of taste and cleanliness. For me it is more. A can path that
is not here, not walk, with someone who does not exist, I can not together.

He lit a candle, left the room, went through a salon in which the chair Fitted with dust-protecting
coatings were and went into the bedroom. Beate was in a dressing gown on the bed and slept.
He hesitated, then put the candle intentionally noisy on a marble table and Beate woke up. "Have
you sent him away," she said drowsy. "But fire from the candle, Alexander, or burn the curtain,"
she went becoming alert on.

"It is so light enough to see you doing that?" Then answered he does not, but depart on and started,
they pursued him with impatient eyes. "You could now, "go to bed," she said angrily. "We must sleep,
I have tomorrow morning to pack my bag. "

"The most you like to pack," Hank said calmly. "You can also travel if you like, but it will be without
me. "

Beate tore astonished eyes. "Yes, are you mad?"

She cried at last, staring back and laughed out loud. She picked herself up, put your feet on
the ground and by focusing on the edge of the bed remained seated, her face showed an expression
of fear, anxiety and hatred.

It seemed as if Hank could see any of this. He started back in even-tone
to speak.

"I do not ask you, in what relation you stand to Maxim Specht, neither What made you, the car mysteriously
go with him through the city, something between you has already taken place in Podolin. I ask
not what the servant with the Count had Randomir up. I just want to know what you say to me now that
you have known is that I know everything. "

Beate's face was earthy. Her back arched, and her head dropped down a little. Slowly open your
lips and could see the clenched teeth fixed. It seemed as if to laugh cry simultaneously. Her
fingers moved, touched her toes then in thin stockings, her knees pressed against each other,
their arms were twitching, she stood on suddenly and said with infinite contempt: "The dog also!
the chatterbox! the common informer, "With a flash of movement, she took the wrap, based on the
Bed, was struck around the head, went on socks proudly to the door and slammed it behind popping
to.

A blown smile flitted over Hanka mouth. He stopped and closed his eyes as he wanted to say:
Enough, enough about. But not a minute had elapsed when Beatrice came back. She cried, she
sat on a chair and pressed her hands to her eyes. "It is up to you, "said Hank," your life
in the future be so good as possible. A public I dislike scandal altogether. So it's good
if you leave in silence the city. I'll take my time, I want to get away for a few weeks so no
sensation is produced. What I am to offer a decent living material,
tomorrow I will find writing .

Let Do you have something to say?

"

As Beatrice noticed that it was so deadly serious, was a new change came over her. "I 'm innocent,
Alexander, "she exclaimed," they have seduced me, by God. You got me made unhappy. "She fell on
her knees beside the bed and put her face in the pillows.

"That may be true," Hanka kindly said, standing before the mirror and so hinschaute for her.

Beatrice
raised her head quickly and was in her face a naively hopeful expression.

Hanka smiled painfully. He realized that his language does not penetrate to the ears of this
woman was that his world rolled into other spheres, that his blood was of another nature, and
that Beatrice could not even imagine it. "Tell you about what I said, 'observed cool and he
turned to go. As he had already left the room, he heard screaming
Beate's end Laugh.

He returned to the dining room, sat down at the piano, struck a note of any issue on and prelude.
But it was as if between him and the instruments of a wall; the sounds were muffled and distant.
He got up, opened the windows and the glass door in the garden led. He went out. Of trees and bushes
dripping rain water, and the beds was blackest darkness. On whitish gray sky clouds pushed out,
and the Storm still shone in the distance. I was a different person than that lightning still
on the other side of the horizon were thought Hanka; between two gusts of wind has the fate approached.
He followed the looped garden paths, and the steady drop of water sounded to him like the hammers
of the piano that did not want to drown this evening. It was late, when he again returned
to the room which he completed in all directions. He took in a corner room and grabbed a book
to a second and third. Hanka had a Feeling of tiredness and heaviness, as if he had two nights
of partying. He stretched in the chair, and began a hollow in his head thinking that hollow in
a night passed, when the leaves began to glow in the garden of the Dawn.

Thirty-seventh chapter

Hanka after Arnold had left home, he was undecided for a while in front of goal. Then he crossed
the unknown alley, but returned again. In silence stood the Villas and cottages on both sides
of the road, and his ears heard no other sound than those of the rain. He came from a bank,
under cover of an old chestnut tree remained fairly dry and was sat
down.

The last one wanted to look and a handshake Alexander Hanka him out of my head. Arnold felt well
that is more and different was included as a grateful acknowledgment for a well-intentioned
Service, in any case other than what Arnold had expected. He had expected that a man who the
portly sat in the dark, turn to surprise, and is committed to the light would that he wore a
friend's house. Instead, he betrayed the feelings and Observation, he had left a humbled behind.
Arnold had thought, a Truth guilt to bear, and he had held a court. Hanka view was clear: you
have addressed, but who has called you?

Was this now or was it the weakness Hanka human weakness, or was it Arnold's mistake?

Is it weakness Hanka, Arnold thought, it is based on his good fortune
not to see how the my view, to do.

And so little I have the power to give him my brain and my mind so little is at my right,
it aufzureden my truth. This is no way out, although I see that has any thing good thing and
bad thing, two sides. Was it a human Weakness, then it may indeed be my weakness, and it is for
me so many times harder Be right, as there are people besides me.

What Hank has, that is his property: Dress, house and wife. I assume Hanka came to me and said, your
father's money, of which songs about you is collected together by craft, sweat and other foreign
trouble.

I would consider it find and correct and should take from me what I have by a lie, because I have
claimed was that everyone should take his lie on his own. But what
of Beatrice? Perhaps this was it not to be the best way she has realized?
Maybe it was their strength, not to To confess and she loved Hanka
best if she loved his ignorance? Perhaps this was Here lie the better.
Lie, it's just a word. But how? if he on raw and vile nature would
have found out? is a will, which is doing something not as good as
About the? and its purpose was not to be true, because I wanted it?

And
if a lie is only a word, now so soon to assume so, it is indeed injustice
just a word. If you do not make a truth can, then you can even run
a justice not create. Maybe it's somewhere decided that a Jewish woman
came to the monastery, perhaps has to be somewhere good, just do not
ego. But that would be a desperate, a most desperate story, when man
no longer able to know what he can and should.

Very confused, our
hero got up and walked like a dismal rush home.

Thirty-eighth chapter

Anna
Borromeo end of August came back from the country stay. They immediately
made out, received Check out subscribe to, for concerts and theater
and was preparing for the usual fall and Winter life before. Piles
of novels came from the bookstore and from borrowing and no could
hold them longer than a morning. They chased him here and there, complained
about Insomnia seemed, soon weakened, sometimes overwrought, sometimes
talkative and sometimes too quiet. Arnold followed closely their doings,
and he is oppressed, she and her uncle so in a to think strait and
eternal relationship, which seemed to him as the marriage.

Frederick
Borromeo was swept deep into itself. Nothing came of fatigue and calm
the same, with which he carried a knife and fork, put the food on
his plate, not the loss of appetite, with which he ate or dragged
a call to a preliminary end point.

It angered and hurt Arnold to
watch this. Still burning in him the desire is to seek people. When
he one morning at breakfast was sitting alone with Borromeo began
He disclosed: "Could not you tell me what you so depressing? because
everything must be as is it? "

Borromeo his eyebrows up slowly. Both
his eyes were rolling star going out into the corners. "You ask how
a young man," he said, "but I can not answer like a man leave this
we also dying a nil nisi bene # # have. "

When they separated from
each other, Borromeo handshake was full of warmth. Nothing could more
clearly To express how pleased he was with him and how much he trusted
him. After talking some time, he again read a portion
of the Bible, prayed with the poor woman, and went away.

'Oh, how I pity her, father,' said Harry, when they were on their way home. 'Do you really
think the little baby will get well?--I do hope it will.'

'That is a natural wish, my child; but God knows what is best, and if He should see fit to
remove it, we have no right to murmur.'

'No, father, but poor Mrs Gilman will feel so dreadfully, for then she will be entirely alone.
She told us, you know, that before she married James Gilman she was a poor servant girl, and
an orphan, and she don't know whether she has any relatives or not. It will be very hard for
her to see everything she loves taken from her and buried in the grave.'

'So it will, my dear boy, and she deserves all our sympathy; but it may be that a kind Heavenly
Parent, since she has no earthly ones to guide her, is using these means to draw the poor widow
nearer to Him. If this chastisement is sent by His hand, it will undoubtedly be in love and mercy.'

'Do you think, father, that Mrs Gilman loves her little James too well?'

'I will answer your question by asking another, Harry. Do you think her love for the child
interferes with that she owes to God?'

Harry was for a few moments silent. At last he answered, 'She certainly loves him better than
she does God, and that is not right; but you always told Effie and me that we could not love
each other too well.'

'And I told you right, provided that love is made subservient to a holier one. But your first
duty is, in the words of our Saviour, "to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart." Obedience
to this precept involves a great many other duties, but none of these should interfere with
the great first command.'

'But, father,' inquired Harry, 'if Mrs Gilman should become a Christian, would she love her
baby less.'

'No, she might love it more, but not with the same kind of affection she bears it now. This
is a blind idolatry--her child is her all, and she cannot bear to part with it, even though
it should join her lost husband, and wear a crown in glory. If she were a Christian, she would
be able to say, "Thy will be done," and to place entire confidence in the Divine Master, and
bow in submission to His requirements, even though they should call on her to resign this treasure.'

'Oh, how happy we should be, if we loved God better than anything else!' said Harry.

After they had arrived at home, and while Mrs Maurice was engaged in preparing some comfortable
things for the poor woman, Harry was heard to whisper in his sister's ear, 'Poor Mrs Gilman
makes a god of her baby, Effie.'

CHAPTER VI.

GENEROSITY AND JUSTICE.

Several days passed away, and little Effie was watching every opportunity for making applications
of the truth her mother had taught her, but yet, (such is the deceitfulness of the human heart,)
she still considered herself out of danger. If any little boys or girls who may perchance read
this story, are as confident as Effie, we only ask them to watch over their thoughts and actions
for as long a time as she did, and see if they do not discover their mistake. One day Mrs Maurice
went to make a call on a lady of her acquaintance, and as Harry was engaged with his father,
she allowed Effie to accompany her. It was a beautiful parlour into which they were ushered,
and Mrs Town received them with due politeness. They were scarce seated when the servant announced
another visitor, and a lady with whom Mrs Maurice was very well acquainted entered, and immediately
stated the object of her call--to obtain subscriptions for a charitable society.

'I am tired of these societies,' said Mrs Town, 'do not you think, Mrs Maurice, that individual
charity is preferable?'

'Undoubtedly, in many instances, but societies have done much good, and I am therefore disposed
to countenance them.'

'But don't you think,' said Mrs Town, 'that a person is very apt to think by being a member
of a society she is freed from individual responsibility?'

'There may be such people,' was the reply, 'and undoubtedly are, but they are those who give
merely because they are expected to do so, and this is the easiest mode of cheating the world
and themselves that could be devised.'

'Well,' replied Mrs Town, 'I have always made it a point never to place my name on a subscription
list, so I shall be obliged to decline. I hope,' she said to the disappointed lady, who had
been advised to call upon her because she was rich, 'I hope you will meet with better success
elsewhere.'

'I hope I shall,' the lady could scarce forbear saying, as Mrs Town curtsied gracefully in
answer to her embarrassed nod, but she soon calmed her excited feelings and passed on.

'Poor Mrs D.!' said Mrs Town. 'This must be very unpleasant business. I can't see what could
induce a lady of her respectability to engage in it.'

'I know of no one who could perform the task better,' said Mrs Maurice.

'Certainly not, but--' Mrs Town paused, and then added, hesitatingly, 'it seems a little too
much like begging.'

'It surely is begging,' said Mrs Maurice, with much animation, 'begging for the poor, the weak,
the desolate, the unfriended--these have claims upon those who to-morrow may be in their places--and
more, Mrs Town, it is begging for our brethren, our sisters--these have claims upon us that
cannot be waived--but above all, it is begging for the King of kings, Him who hesitated not
to give His own Son for us, and His claims cover all others. Not only our gold and silver are
His, but ourselves.'

'Oh, my dear Mrs Maurice, I would not have you to suppose that I object to giving--by no means--it
is only from an ostentatious display of charity that I shrink--this is a duty that should be
exercised in private, a--' Mrs Town was interrupted in the midst of her vindication by a servant
who entered and placed a note in her hand, which she folded closer and was about putting in
her pocket--'Please, ma'am,' said the servant, 'she wishes you to read it now, and say if you
can see her.'

Mrs Town glanced at the note and coloured slightly, but she had been too long accustomed to
concealing her feelings for a stronger manifestation. 'Tell her to come to-morrow,' said she.

The servant was gone a moment and again returned, 'Please, ma'am,' said he, 'the woman won't
go away, she says she will see you, for her husband is sick, and her children starving, and
she must have her pay.' Mrs Town started from her seat: this was a strange comment upon her
beautiful theory of individual charity. Mrs Maurice retired as soon as possible, and as she
passed through the hall she saw a miserably-clad woman with a face extremely haggard and care-worn,
whom she supposed to be the person claiming--not charity, but justice, of Mrs Town. Effie saw
that her mother's face was unusually clouded, and she did not venture to comment upon the past
scene, but she said to her brother as soon as they were alone, 'I am glad we are not rich like
Mrs Town, Harry, lest we should make a god of our money.'

Mrs Maurice did not, however, neglect at a suitable time to fix upon Effie's mind the impression
she had received from the scene at Mrs Town's. 'Remember, my child,' she said, 'if you should
ever live to become a woman, that justice should be preferred to generosity, and never talk
of giving while some poor person may be suffering for that which is her just due.'

'Mother,' said Harry, 'Elisha Otis told me to-day that his father thinks people who talk so
much of giving, are all hypocrites.'

'People who make a great noise about any good act which they perform appear somewhat pharisaical,
but we have no right to condemn them upon that score alone, for it often proceeds from a great
desire to do good. You know we are very apt to talk of that which most occupies our thoughts,
Harry. But where did Elisha Otis's father get such notions of charitable people?'

'That is what I was going to tell you about, mother. You know how much Deacon Brown, gives--he
heads all the subscription papers, and I heard father say the other day that he was a great
help to the church; but Mr Otis says that he is never willing to pay people that work for him
their full price, and then they have to wait, and dun, and dun, before they can get anything.'

'I am sorry to hear this, my son, very sorry.'

'Isn't it true mother?'

'It is true that Deacon Brown in some instances has seemed more generous than just, and this
case is very good to illustrate what I before said; but Mr Otis makes it appear much worse
than it is.'

'Then he don't cheat his workmen, mother?'

'No; but, by procrastination, thoughtlessness, or even perhaps the desire which business men
may have to make a good bargain, he may do wrong, and so lay himself open to all these remarks.
Bad qualities, you know, shew much plainer in a good man than a bad one, and are almost always
made to appear worse than they really are. But let this be a warning to you, my boy--remember
that good (not great) actions seldom cover faults, but faults obscure the lustre of many good
actions, and destroy the usefulness of thousands of really good and pious people.'

CHAPTER VII.

THE NEW BOOK.

'A present for you, Effie,' said Mr Maurice, a few days after the foregoing conversation, 'a
present from your uncle William! it is in this nice little packet, now guess what it is.'

'O father--'

'No, but you must guess.'

'Why it's a book--say a book, Effie,' interposed Harry, 'with sights of pictures, I dare say,
and may be pretty gilt letters on the back, too.'

'Is it a book?' inquired Effie, her little eyes dancing with pleasure, 'and from uncle William,
too? Oh how good he is to remember a little girl like me!'

By this time Mr Maurice had unwound the cord and unfolded the paper, and displayed a neat little
book--what think you it was? 'Peter Parley's Stories,' says one, 'The Love Token,' says another.
No, you are both wrong. Effie Maurice was almost a woman before these books were written. Mrs
Sherwood was then the children's friend, and some beautiful stories she told them, too. The
book had neither pictures, nor gilt letters, but this did not spoil it for Effie, and she was
soon so busily engaged in reading that she forgot that there was anything in the world but
herself and the delightful book--more still, she forgot even her own existence, and thought
only of the people about whom she was reading. A half-hour passed away and then Mrs Maurice
reminded Effie of her room, and told her it had better be put in order.

'Yes, mother, in a few minutes.' The few minutes passed away, and Mrs Maurice spoke again.

'I will, mother.' Mrs Maurice saw that Effie forgot these words almost as soon as spoken, but
instead of telling her at once to put up the book, and do as she was bidden, she allowed her
to pursue her own course for this once, hoping by this means to cure her of a very bad habit.

Soon after, Mrs Maurice descended to the kitchen to give some directions, and Effie was left
alone. Once the thought entered her mind that she had promised to visit Mrs Gilman that day,
but she immediately concluded another time would do as well, and so continued her reading.
After a while Harry, who had been out with his father, entered in great haste, with a packet
of medicine in his hand.

'Effie,' he said, 'father wants you to take this to Mrs Gilman's when you go, it is for her
little James, and I--'

'I am not going to-day, Harry.'

'Can't you go? Oh do! don't mind the book! you can read it another time.'

'So I can go to Mrs Gilman's another time.'

'Oh, but the medicine, Effie.'

'Can't you take it as well as I? It is too bad for me to have to be running there all the time.'
It was very unusual for Effie to speak so peevishly, but Harry was in a very happy mood, so
he merely exclaimed, 'Why, Effie!' and glanced at the book as much as to say, 'did you learn
it there!' Effie saw the glance, and ashamed of her ill nature said, 'Oh it is such a good
story, Harry! but if you can't go to Mrs Gilman's, why not send a servant?'

'Father said some of us ought to go; so do, Effie, just put up your book for this once. The
medicine is to prevent the convulsions that frightened us so yesterday, but father is going
out into the country (it is delightful sleighing!) and he says I may go. You know it isn't
every day I can get a sleigh-ride, Effie.' And the delighted boy gave his sister such a very
hearty kiss that she could not forbear answering good humouredly, especially as she had some
suspicion that she had not spoken pleasantly at first, 'Well, I will go, Harry, but don't hinder
me now, I shall get through the chapter in a few minutes.' 'Well, don't forget, and when I
come back I will tell you about all I see.'

Effie finished her chapter and thought of the medicine, and wondered if it was really so important
that it should go immediately; but she was now in the most interesting part of the story, and
she continued to read a little farther. So the time stole away--I can't exactly tell how, but
perhaps some of my little readers (especially if they have read the little book that delighted
Effie so much) can imagine--till the dinner hour. By this time Effie had finished her book,
and her father and Harry had returned from the sleigh-ride, the latter particularly in excellent
spirits. Effie thought of the medicine as she sat down to the table, and in a moment all her
enjoyment vanished; for she had been guilty of procrastination, she had broken her word, and
what excuse had she to offer for her neglect? That she had scarcely known what she was about,
was no excuse at all, for she knew she ought to have known. She could not, however, prevail
upon herself to confess her fault, until after she had repaired it, and so decided to go to
Mrs Gilman's immediately after dinner, and when she had set all right again, to tell the whole
affair to her parents and brother.

Harry was full of stories about his ride, and she heard as well as she could about the farmer's
big dog that at first wouldn't let them come in, and afterwards shook hands with them, and
the cat that could open doors, and the hens and rabbits, but she forgot all about them in a
moment, and only wished she could slide away from the table and nobody see her. At last the
meal was ended, and they were about rising from the table when they were startled by a message
from Mrs Gilman's. Her little boy was in convulsions.

'I will go immediately,' said Mr Maurice, 'poor little fellow! nothing can save him now--that
medicine was my last hope.'

'Oh, father!' exclaimed Effie.

'Nay, my child--' Mr Maurice began, but he saw that it was not mere pity that produced so much
agitation, and inquired hastily 'what is the matter?' Poor Effie attempted to speak, but burst
into tears.

'Oh, Effie!' exclaimed her brother, grasping her arm, 'you couldn't have forgotten the medicine.'
The poor child only sobbed the harder, and Harry, turning to the table, pointed to the little
packet, thus explaining the mystery!

'And so for a selfish gratification you have endangered a fellow-creature's life,' said Mr
Maurice, sternly.

'Oh, father!' exclaimed Harry, 'she's so sorry! Don't cry, Effie, don't cry!' he whispered,
at the same time passing his arm around her neck, 'father didn't mean to be so severe, he is
only frightened about little James--I am very sorry I didn't go, for it was too bad to make
you leave the book.'

But all Harry's soothing words could not make Effie blind to her own neglect, and when she
saw her father go out with an anxious, troubled face, and her mother looked so sorrowful without
saying a single word to her, she could not help going back in her thoughts to Mrs Town, Rosa
Lynmore, and even the miser, and thinking she was worse than any of them.

Her brother Harry still clung around her neck, and kept whispering she was not to blame, the
fault was his, till Mrs Maurice called him away, and then very reluctantly he quitted her side.
Poor Effie, thus left without sympathy, crept away to her own little room, and sat down, not
merely to weep, but to enter into a regular self-examination. The truths she thus discovered
were exceedingly humiliating, but the child began to feel that she needed humbling, and she
did not shrink from the task. I do not know but Effie's self-condemnation was greater than
the fault really called for, but it certainly was of great use to her, and made her humbler,
and gentler, and more forgiving than she ever was before.

Effie did not see her father or Harry again that night, but when her mother came to see if
she was warm in her little bed, she whispered in her ear, 'Oh, I have so many faults: and my
heart is full of false gods. I am afraid I never really loved my Heavenly Father.'

'Yet, Effie, a great many children, and some grown people, would consider this neglect of yours
to-day a very small thing.'

'Oh, mother! I know it is not small, though I never thought it was so very wicked before.'

'And what makes you think it is wicked now?'

'Because it has led me to do so many wicked things. In the first place, it was wrong to read
immediately after breakfast, for then is the time that you desire me to work.'

'Well, do you see any bad effect that the neglect of this rule may have on your future life?'

'I suppose I should make a very useless woman, if I should grow up in ignorance of work.'

'Yes, certainly you would; when I insist upon your attending to your few duties at a particular
time--can you imagine the reason of this? Why not read the book this morning, and make up the
lost time this evening?' Effie could not tell, and Mrs Maurice went on to explain the necessity
of order in the distribution of time, and shewed her little daughter, that it was as necessary
in the government of a house as in the government of a nation. 'But that is not the only bad
effect,' she added, 'of your self-indulgence.'

'Oh no, mother, it made me disobedient to you, though I am sure I didn't think of being so
at the time.'

'I dare say not, but you see when we once go wrong, we are like a traveller who has lost his
path, and can be certain of nothing.'

'Then I forgot my duty to poor Mrs Gilman--I even made myself believe that there was no need
of going to see her; and I was cross to Harry, and so selfish, that if I had not been ashamed
to own it, I would have had him give up his ride and go with the medicine.'

'And he would rather have gone ten times than--'

'I know it, mother, rather a hundred times than have the baby die.'

'Or see you do so very wrong.'

'Oh, Harry has been crying about it, I know, though he can't feel half so badly as I do. But
that was not all, mother--last of all, I broke my promise. I told Harry I would go as soon
as I finished the chapter.'

'And all this,' said Mrs Maurice, 'is the result of what, under other circumstances, would
be a mere innocent gratification, a pleasant pastime, and a useful exercise.'

'But, mother, when I once begun, I thought I could not stop.'

'Then that was the very moment when you should have stopped, and this one victory would have
made others easier. Now I am not afraid, my dear, of your being led astray (at least at present)
by things which you know to be wrong; your danger lies on the unguarded side, and yet it is
as likely to prove fatal to your peace of mind, your piety, and your usefulness.'

'It never seemed to me before, that so much evil could come from such a small thing.'

'Then you have learned an all-important lesson, which I trust will not be soon forgotten.'

'But, mother, I shall always be afraid of doing wrong now--I don't even know what is right.'

'That shews me, Effie, that you begin to look upon yourself as you really are. If you are left
to yourself, you will do wrong; but if you distrust self, and place all your confidence in
God, and at the same time study to do right, you will not, for any long time, be left in darkness.'

The conversation of Mrs Maurice continued to a late hour; but as the remaining time was spent
in encouraging poor Effie, who needed all that could be said to her, we will pass it over,
and merely inform our readers that she awoke in the morning wiser, and even happier; for the
joy that is felt in heaven over a repenting sinner, is reflected upon that sinner's own heart.

CHAPTER VIII.

ANOTHER OF MR MAURICE'S LESSONS.

'Father,' said Harry, after the little family had gathered around the fire as usual, on the
ensuing evening, 'it seems strange that people can love good books too well.'

'I believe they are not very apt to, Harry, especially boys who are so fond of snowballing
and sliding, as a certain little fellow I met to-day.'

'Oh you mean me, now, father, but I thought you liked to have me play.'

'So I do; only look out that the books and play go together. One is for the mind, and the other
is for the body, and both should be cared for.'

'Well, father, Mr Titus tells the boys, that the mind is the only thing worthy of attention,
at least he talks as though he thought so; and so some of the larger boys think it is not scholarlike
to play, and sit mewed up in the house from morning till night, like so many drones.'

'And so grow pale and sickly-looking, do they not?'

'Yes, sir; and what's more, I don't think they learn a bit faster than some of the rest of us.'

'Very likely, Harry--for whether they think proper attention to the body important or not,
the state of the mind depends very much upon it. A healthy mind, that is, a perfectly sound,
active, and energetic one, cannot dwell in a diseased body; and so your play, while it amuses
you, and seems to others to be mere waste of time, invigorates the body, affords rest to the
mind, and is in reality as essential to your well-being as the food you eat, or the clothing
you wear in winter.'

'I wish Mr Titus could hear you say that, father.'

'Perhaps it would not be safe to talk so to all his boys, for I presume the most of them would
at present be more benefited by what he says. Children seldom love study too well. Even our
little book-worm, Effie, would never become too much engaged in anything but a story.'

'Father, Thomas Marvin says that he can't get to school for a while, and he can't spend the
time in exercise; as he says fun takes his mind off his books, and makes him lose a great deal.
He is intending to teach a school when he goes away from here, but I don't believe he will,
for he looks sickly now. But he thinks it is very foolish to spend time in jumping about, and
all that, when there are things so much more important to be done.'

'The body, which God has so wonderfully made, and which He watches over with such tender care,
is very far from being beneath our notice, Harry; and while we should give the greater care
to the immortal part, we should not neglect the other. I have been visiting a scholar to-day,
who I doubt not was once of young Marvin's opinion in these things, and, poor fellow! he does
not even see his folly now.'

'Please tell us about him, father,' said Effie, with interest, 'did he study so much to make
him selfish and wicked?'

'I will tell you the story, and then you must be the judge,' returned Mr Maurice. 'I believe,
however, that in this case selfishness was more out of the question than usual; he had too
much zeal, "a zeal not according to knowledge." Lewis Varden was the son of a poor widow, who
contrived to support a large family in comfort and to give them a good education. He was the
youngest son, and perhaps from the circumstance of being too tenderly nurtured, and perhaps
from some constitutional defect, was never so strong and muscular as his brothers, and so his
mother determined that he should study a profession.

'Lewis was particularly pleased with the arrangement, as he had a natural fondness for sedentary
employments, and at sixteen had become so extensive a reader, as to be a kind of family encyclopedia.
The question, however, remained to be decided whether he should study law or medicine, the
only professions which among us are at all lucrative.

'While he was yet wavering between the two, he lost his mother, and suddenly the whole object
of his life, even his own character, became changed. Mrs Varden was what is usually called
a good woman, that is, with a sharp eye upon her worldly interests, she maintained her standing
in the church, and bore a fair reputation; but she was a worldly-minded Christian, and as such
had not sufficiently encouraged in her children any peculiar love for holiness. She was, however,
a devoted, self-sacrificing mother, as far as their worldly interests were concerned: and never
was a lost parent more sincerely mourned.

'From that time forth, Lewis seemed to lose all connection with the business part of the world,
and he devoted himself more closely than ever to his books.

'Yet among these books, the Bible now found a place, and occupied a large share of his attention.
From reading it, because it suited his now serious thoughts, he began to love its contents,
and finally he made them the guide of his life. He became a member of the church in the little
village where he resided, and was soon regarded as a very promising young man.

'His new friends were exceedingly anxious that he should study for the ministry, and he entered
with alacrity upon his new duties. But not content with what he considered the circuitous way
to usefulness usually taken, he determined by industry to cut it short, and so the noonday
sun and midnight lamp found him at the same task. When worn out by his incessant mental labours,
he would throw himself down and sleep for a little time; but his dreams were only a continuation
of his waking thoughts, so that even in sleep he was studying still.

'When his fellow-students expostulated, he laughed at the idea of his health being injured
by incessant application, and seemed to be afraid that variety of employment would distract
his attention. So he went on from week to week, and month to month, preparing his mind for
usefulness, but his body for the grave. His pale brow grew yet paler, his cheek hollow, and
his hand thin and colourless, but still he declared himself to be in perfect health, and no
one knew his danger.

'Finally, he was attacked by a cold, a very slight one, he at first thought, but it clung to
him, and could not be shaken off. The poor fellow is now wasting away by consumption, but I
cannot convince him of his danger, and to-day when I called on him at the house of his brother,
I found him surrounded by books and papers, his large dark eye absolutely glowing with enthusiasm,
and a deep red spot burning on either cheek.'

'Oh, father, what did you say to him?' inquired Harry, earnestly.

'A short time ago I recommended quiet and relaxation, telling him plainly that his disease
was beyond the reach of medicine, so he understood my look of painful surprise at once.

'He only shook his head, laughingly, and said, "Ah, Doctor, this life is too short to throw
away, and so I have gone to work. But you must not blame me," he said, observing that I was
about to speak, "I am only planning a few sermons I intend to preach next summer."

'And then he went on to talk about his intentions, and inquired my opinion of some particular
sentiments that he had been writing down, until he became so much excited that I was obliged
to order the removal of all his papers. Poor fellow! he will never preach a sermon. In his
impatience to become useful, he has destroyed his power to do good.'

'I don't think,' said Effie, 'that poor Mr Varden makes knowledge his god exactly, because
he does it all for good; but it would be very wicked for Harry or me to do so, because we know
how wrong it is. I wish everybody that praised people for studying too hard could know it is
wicked.'

'But remember,' said Mr Maurice, 'that where one person's cheek is paled by hard study, fifty
make themselves utterly useless by neglecting the bodily exercise which moderate mental effort
demands. It is aversion to active employment, and not the love of knowledge, that has slain
its hundreds and crippled its thousands.'

CHAPTER IX.

THE FUNERAL.

It was a bright and sunshiny day, and so warm as to make the snow moist and yielding beneath
the foot--such a day as children love and choose for their happiest sports; but to at least
two children it was anything but a day of pleasure. Poor Mrs Gilman's little James had lingered
on beyond all expectation, and finally died, calmly and quietly, as if he had been composing
himself for sleep. And so it was--a long sleep.

This was the day on which the little one was to be buried, and Harry and Effie were sincere
mourners. Not like the poor mother--oh no, no one could feel like her--but they wept as one
child of adversity weeps for another, all through life, from the cradle to the grave.

Children are sad when they see those of their own age falling like the spring flowers around
them; and when the little infant grows cold and lifeless in its cradle, beneath a loving mother's
eye, and is borne away to the silent, lonely graveyard, they insensibly grow thoughtful, and
if they have been deprived of previous instructions, death becomes their teacher, and for a
little time they grow wise beneath the influence of his lessons.

But Harry and Effie had not been thus deprived, and as hand in hand they followed the little
coffin to the grave, through their tears of sadness and sympathy there gleamed out a bright
and elevated expression, almost a happy one, which shewed that they looked beyond these sorrow-claiming
objects, and saw the suffering child they had loved and pitied a redeemed spirit of light.
They could see that the little flower, which had drooped and faded in the atmosphere of this
world, grew bright and beautiful in the sunshine of immortal love. They knew that the kingdom
of God was made up of just such little children--those who had died before they knew anything
of the sin and wickedness of this world; or having known it, having grown old and gray beneath
its heavy burden, had laid all at the feet of Jesus, and in spirit gone back to helpless, guileless
infancy again.

They knew that their little friend now dwelt with that dear Saviour, who, when on earth, blessed
little children, who gathers the lambs in His arms, and carries them in His bosom. Yet it was
a sad day for them, for they mourned the dead, as mortals always mourn when mortals die, although
they did not wish him back, and they pitied the living. More tears were indeed shed for Mrs
Gilman, than for the child.

The contents of Rosa Lynmore's purse had been reserved by Mr Maurice for this sad occasion,
he having supplied all previous wants; and it had been sufficient to give a decent burial to
the little boy, who slept quietly at his father's side--to be awakened only when you and I,
my dear reader, shall be aroused from the same slumber.

Mr Maurice was right when he said if Mrs Gilman was stricken, it would be in mercy; for her
heart being weaned from the world, at last found a refuge from its loneliness in the consolations
of religion, and left the broken reed of earthly love, on which it had leaned too confidently,
for the Rock, Christ Jesus, the friend that never fails.

She entered Mr Maurice's family as a domestic, and has grown gray in its service.

Harry Maurice, it was for a long time thought, would become a preacher of the Gospel; but when
he became old enough to judge, he decided in favour of his father's profession, declaring that
he who fails to do good in one situation in life, would most decidedly fail in another.

Sweet little Effie! Her struggle with her heart on the occasion of the book was not the last;
it was difficult for her to learn its deceitfulness, and she required repeated lessons.

As she grew older, however, she was always complaining of her own sinfulness, while every one
else thought her the meekest, the gentlest, and most self-sacrificing being that ever lived.
She had, indeed, become remarkably sharp-sighted to her own faults, and, in proportion, forgiving
to those of others.

But at last a trial came. She was called on to leave all she loved on earth, and carry the
Gospel to a far off benighted land.

She wept at parting with her parents, but even then she whispered in her mother's ear thanks
for the early lessons she had received, and added, 'But for these I might never have learned
true self-denial, and might have preferred my dear home to the service of my Master.'

Effie loved her home sincerely, but she loved her Saviour who gave it to her better, and she
will have her reward. 

He let his head sink down on his chest. Longer term we heard in the silent room Nothing as the deep,
restless respirations which his chest moving.

"What a hard, hard fate," he said then. - "I have my throne and my
kingdom lost!

It is not enough that you should see your own faults, and try to mend them yourself; neither
is it enough that you should pray, 'lead us not into temptation;' but you must 'watch and pray'
also, always remembering that however pleasant and beautiful this world is, there is a brighter
and a better, where little children and old men may equally sit down together in happiness,
having one God and one Father.

