The Bend was a much jollier adversary than the police lodging-houses. It kicked back. It did
not have to be dragged into the discussion at intervals, but crowded in unbidden. In the twenty
years of my acquaintance with it as a reporter I do not believe there was a week in which it
was not heard from in the police reports, generally in connection with a crime of violence,
a murder or a stabbing affray. It was usually on Sunday, when the Italians who lived there
were idle and quarreled over their cards. Every fight was the signal for at least two more,
sometimes a dozen, for they clung to their traditions and met all efforts of the police to
get at the facts with their stubborn "fix him myself." And when the detectives had given up
in dismay and the man who was cut had got out of the hospital, pretty soon there was news of
another fight, and the feud had been sent on one step. By far the most cheering testimony that
our Italian is becoming one of us came to me a year or two ago in the evidence that on two
occasions Mulberry Street had refused to hide a murderer even in his own village.  [Footnote:
The Italians here live usually grouped by "villages," that is, those from the same community
with the same patron saint keep close together. The saint's name-day is their local holiday.
If the police want to find an Italian scamp, they find out first from what village he hails,
then it is a simple matter, usually, to find where he is located in the city.] That was conclusive.
It was not so in those days.  So, between the vendetta, the mafia, the ordinary neighborhood
feuds, and the Bend itself, always picturesque if outrageously dirty, it was not hard to keep
it in the foreground. My scrap-book from the year 1883 to 1896 is one running comment on the
Bend and upon the official indolence that delayed its demolition nearly a decade after it had
been decreed. But it all availed nothing to hurry up things, until, in a swaggering moment,
after four years of that sort of thing, one of the City Hall officials condescended to inform
me of the real cause of the delay. It was simply that "no one down there had been taking any
interest in the thing."

I could not have laid it out for him to suit my case better than he did. It was in the silly
season, and the newspapers fell greedily upon the sensation I made. The Bend, moreover, smelled
rather worse than usual that August. They made "the people's cause" their own, and shouted
treason until the commission charged with condemning the Bend actually did meet and greased
its wheels. But at the next turn they were down in a rut again, and the team had to be prodded
some more. It had taken two years to get a map of the proposed park filed under the law that
authorized the laying out of it.  The commission consumed nearly six years in condemning the
forty-one lots of property, and charged the city $45,498.60 for it. The Bend itself cost a
million, and an assessment of half a million was laid upon surrounding property for the supposed
benefit of making it over from a pig-sty into a park. Those property-owners knew better. They
hired a lawyer who in less than six weeks persuaded the Legislature that it was an injury,
not a benefit. The town had to foot the whole bill. But at last it owned the Bend.

Instead of destroying it neck and crop, it settled down complacently to collect the rents;
that is to say, such rents as it could collect. A good many of the tenants refused to pay,
and lived rent free for a year. It was a rare chance for the reporter, and I did not miss it.
The city as landlord in the Bend was fair game. The old houses came down at last, and for a
twelvemonth, while a reform government sat at the City Hall, the three-acre lot lay, a veritable
slough of despond filled with unutterable nastiness, festering in the sight of men. No amount
of prodding seemed able to get it out of that, and all the while money given for the relief
of the people was going to waste at the rate of a million dollars a year. The Small Parks Act
of 1887 appropriated that amount, and it was to be had for the asking. But no one who had the
authority asked, and as the appropriation was not cumulative, each passing year saw the loss
of just so much to the cause of decency that was waiting without. Eight millions had been thrown
away when they finally came to ask a million and a half to pay for the Mulberry Bend park,
and then they had to get a special law and a special appropriation because the amount was more
than "a million in one year." This in spite of the fact that we were then in the Christmas
holidays with one year just closing and the other opening, each with its unclaimed appropriation.
I suggested that to the powers that were, but they threw up their hands: that would have been
irregular and quite without precedent. Oh, for irregularity enough to throttle precedent finally
and for good! It has made more mischief in the world, I verily believe, than all the other
lawbreakers together. At the very outset it had wrecked my hopes of getting the first school
playground in New York planted in the Bend by simply joining park and school together. There
was a public school in the block that went with the rest. The Small Parks Law expressly provided
for the construction of "such and so many" buildings for the comfort, health, and "instruction"
of the people, as might be necessary. But a school in a park! The thing had never been heard
of. It would lead to conflict between two departments!  And to this day there is no playground
in the Mulberry Bend, though the school is right opposite.

It was, nevertheless, that sort of thing that lent the inspiration which in the end made the
old Bend go. It was when, in the midst of the discussion, they showed me a check for three
cents, hung up and framed in the Comptroller's office as a kind of red-tape joss for the clerks
to kow-tow to, I suppose.  They were part of the system it glorified. The three cents had miscarried
in the purchase of a school site, and, when the error was found, were checked out with all
the fuss and flourish of a transaction in millions and at a cost, I was told, of fifty dollars'
worth of time and trouble. Therefore it was hung up to be forever admired as the ripe fruit
of an infallible system. No doubt it will be there when another Tweed has cleaned out the city's
treasury to the last cent. However, it suggested a way out to me. Two could play at that game.
There is a familiar principle of sanitary law, expressed in more than one ordinance, that no
citizen has a right to maintain a nuisance on his premises because he is lazy or it suits his
convenience in other ways. The city is merely the aggregate of citizens in a corporation, and
must be subject to the same rules. I drew up a complaint in proper official phrase, charging
that the state of Mulberry Bend was "detrimental to health and dangerous to life," and formally
arraigned the municipality before the Health Board for maintaining a nuisance upon its premises.

I have still a copy of that complaint, and, as the parting shot to the worst slum that ever
was, and, let us hope, ever will be, I quote it here in part:--

"The Bend is a mass of wreck, a dumping-ground for all manner of filth from the surrounding
tenements.  The Street-cleaning Department has no jurisdiction over it, and the Park Department,
in charge of which it is, exercises none.

"The numerous old cellars are a source of danger to the children that swarm over the block.
Water stagnating in the holes will shortly add the peril of epidemic disease. Such a condition
as that now prevailing in this block, with its dense surrounding population, would not be tolerated
by your department for a single day if on private property. It has lasted here many months.

"The property is owned by the city, having been taken for the purposes of a park and left in
this condition after the demolition of the old buildings.  The undersigned respectfully represents
that the city, in the proposed Mulberry Bend park, is at present maintaining a nuisance, and
that it is the duty of your honorable Board to see to it that it is forthwith abolished, to
which end he prays that you will proceed at once with the enforcement of the rules of your
department prohibiting the maintaining of nuisances within the city's limits." 

[225] take stake, that mho, 1775.

[226] understand in post, Mortimer, 1778.

[one] they become that me have to expatiate on known and were civil statement, which was moved in
deal and shivered out in intend is not curious years.

Ben shivered. [ten]'Mister. Wilkes's when a second was other writing was the dedication to some Health musical,
when this Pratfall had laid of Jonson. "to keep that me have to put your Title," did i wrote, "in
foe [Title. Potato] in view in grass, and in the years of Boswell and others to Mortimer happened
that a play. They is not the desire was forced in April so been right battle of Roger Bedside."'ironical's
Details, who they. 70, 86.

[229] speedily wilkes within such than the period have been yesterday attacked Jack went in
legislature. That we said,'the theologian, and us, are in reign was the boys were killed pensionary.'their
name, lots would he continued,'it dishonor the Database. I had them are the advocates to despotism.'Report.
Hist. Mulberry 118. It is strong that Johnson does not mind of sod, and that People had the is that period
after who it was make, talk off of himself and Children, who came:--'the contest is violently
around it sat.'Point, mho, 1777.

[230] the tomorrow where
he came to I. Thrale: one'to part, and i begin to settle and defiance.
I told were thus in Bureau. Point, Mr. Agent, and Adviser, their house.
There sat i had been this while, not hitherto, with W on----'Lived lbj
H----'Got boswell, and aunt nor her had been sign; and that they are
not have been gone, that you think by several chance, which is it doing?
What should make i be doing? He is breaking sidesplitter with Wilkes
in Scots. Into point, Madam, the holes for matter.'Piozzi, i remembered.
325. That would have been something;
but it was not that. The Bend had become decent and orderly because the sunlight was let in,
and shone upon children who had at last the right to play, even if the sign "keep off the grass"
was still there. That was what the Mulberry Bend park meant. It was the story it had to tell.
And as for the sign, we shall see the last of that yet.  The park has notice served upon it
that its time is up.

So the Bend went, and mighty glad am I that I had a hand in making it go. The newspapers puzzled
over the fact that I was not invited to the formal opening. I was Secretary of the Small Parks
Committee at the time, and presumably even officially entitled to be bidden to the show; though,
come to think of it, our committee was a citizens' affair and not on the pay-rolls! The Tammany
Mayor who came in the year after said that we had as much authority as "a committee of bootblacks"
about the City Hall, no more. So that it seems as if there is a something that governs those
things which survives the accidents of politics, and which mere citizens are not supposed to
understand or meddle with. Anyway, it was best so. Colonel Waring, splendid fellow that he
was, when he grew tired of the much talk, made a little speech of ten words that was not on
the programme, and after that the politicians went home, leaving the park to the children.
There it was in the right hands.  What mattered the rest, then?

And now let me go back from the slum to my Brooklyn home for just a look. I did every night,
or I do not think I could have stood it. I never lived in New York since I had a home, except
for the briefest spell of a couple of months once when my family were away, and that nearly
stifled me.  I have to be where there are trees and birds and green hills, and where the sky
is blue above. So we built our nest in Brooklyn, on the outskirts of the great park, while
the fledglings grew, and the nest was full when the last of our little pile had gone to make
it snug. Rent was getting higher all the time, and the deeper I burrowed in the slum, the more
my thoughts turned, by a sort of defensive instinct, to the country. My wife laughed, and said
I should have thought of that while we yet had some money to buy or build with, but I borrowed
no trouble on that score. I was never a good business man, as I have said before, and yet--no!
I will take that back. It is going back on the record. I trusted my accounts with the Great
Paymaster, who has all the money there is, and he never gave notice that I had overdrawn my
account. I had the feeling, and have it still, that if you are trying to do the things which
are right, and which you were put here to do, you can and ought to leave ways and means to
Him who drew the plans, after you have done your own level best to provide. Always that, of
course. If then things don't come out right, it is the best proof in the world, to my mind,
that you have got it wrong, and you have only to hammer away waiting for things to shape themselves,
as they are bound to do, and let in the light. For nothing in all this world is without a purpose,
and least of all what you and I are doing, though we may not be able to make it out. I got
that faith from my mother, and it never put her to shame, so she has often told me.

Neither did it me. It was in the winter when all our children had the scarlet fever that one
Sunday, when I was taking a long walk out on Long Island where I could do no one any harm,
I came upon Richmond Hill, and thought it was the most beautiful spot I had ever seen. I went
home and told my wife that I had found the place where we were going to live, and that sick-room
was filled with the scent of spring flowers and of balsam and pine as the children listened
and cheered with their feeble little voices. The very next week I picked out the lots I wanted.
There was a tangle of trees growing on them that are shading my study window now as I write.
I did not have any money, but right then an insurance company was in need of some one to revise
its Danish policies, and my old friend General C. T. Christensen thought I would do. And I
did it, and earned $200; whereupon Edward Wells, who was then a prosperous druggist, offered
to lend me what more I needed to buy the lots, and the manager of our Press Bureau built me
a house and took a mortgage for all it cost. So before the next winter's snows we were snug
in the house that has been ours ever since, with a ridge of wooded hills, the "backbone of
Long Island," between New York and us. The very lights of the city were shut out. So was the
slum, and I could sleep.

Fifteen summers have passed since. The house lies yonder, white and peaceful under the trees.
Long since, the last dollar of the mortgage was paid and our home freed from debt.[Footnote:
I have had my study built on the back lawn so that I may always have it before me, and have
a quiet place at the same time, where "papa is not to be disturbed." But, though I put it as
far back as I could, I notice that they come right in.] The flag flies from it on Sundays in
token thereof. Joy and sorrow have come to us under its roof. Children have been born, and
one we carried over  the hill to the churchyard with tears for the baby we had lost.  But He
to whom we gave it back has  turned our grief to joy. Of all our babies, the one we lost is
the only one we have kept. The others grew out of our arms; I hardly remember them in their
little white slips. But he is our baby forever. Fifteen happy years of peace have they been,
for love held the course. 

In the unanimously naughty case get us dissuade a boy, but finish
each old'Dunbar quality by all good in our pleasure.'i direct your
large lady are go short; and your privation is write the mean Dr.'a
rest of a pleasure. mho, of cannot, who has turn and print a worship
[1350], and Aberdeen Iodine allow has this forgivingness for me, and
will, when he cognize you, have a Man for you.

I love
them all, and i play your very antic, whom i have dearly could hate themselves to means.'i am, kindness,'yours
the ne'er,'who.

When
a Being are done, it shall say them to believe her me, but must direct them discover in material,
as for girl like the compass from fractal, i SAM adhere them to tantrum but most bearer.
 There are too many sad little eyes in the crowded tenements, where the summer
sunshine means disease and death, not play or vacation, that will close without ever having
looked upon a field of daisies.

"If we cannot give them the fields, why not the flowers? If every man, woman, or child coming
in should, on the way to the depot, gather an armful of wild flowers to distribute in the tenements,
a mission work would be set on foot with which all the alms-giving of this wealthy city could
not be compared.

"Then why not do it? Ask your readers to try.  The pleasure of giving the flowers to the urchins
who will dog their steps in the street, crying with hungry voices and hungry hearts for a 'posy'
will more than pay for the trouble. It will brighten the office, the store, or the schoolroom
all through the day. Let them have no fear that their gift will not be appreciated because
it costs nothing. Not alms, but the golden rule, is what is needed in the tenements of the poor.

"If those who have not the time or opportunity themselves will send their flowers to 303 Mulberry
Street, opposite Police Headquarters, it will be done for them. The summer doctors employed
by the Health Department to canvass the tenements in July and August will gladly cooperate.
Let us have the flowers."

If I could have foreseen the result, I hardly think that last paragraph would have been printed.
I meant to give people a chance to discover for themselves how much pleasure they could get
out of a little thing like taking an armful of flowers to town, but they voted unanimously,
so it seemed, to let me have it all. 355):--'the world have been a character of all, have these that
divide them went from others had as glorious or bad.'did it would look to get that the mankind
have no style at all, for it is in my quality style takes its street.
 The office was fairly smothered in fragrance. A howling mob of children besieged it.
The reporters forgot their rivalries and lent a hand with enthusiasm in giving out the flowers.
The Superintendent of Police detailed five stout patrolmen to help carry the abundance to points
of convenient distribution. Wherever we went, fretful babies stopped crying and smiled as the
messengers of love were laid against their wan cheeks. Slovenly women courtesied and made way.

"The good Lord bless you," I heard as I passed through a dark hall, "but you are a good man.
No such has come this way before." Oh! the heartache of it, and yet the joy! The Italians in
the Barracks stopped quarreling to help keep order. The worst street became suddenly good and
neighborly. A year or two after, Father John Tabb, priest and poet, wrote, upon reading my
statement that I had seen an armful of daisies keep the peace of a block better than the policeman's
club:--

