In the beginning, his moral-suasion project was sarcastically dubbed the sugar plum speculation.
If the scheme was striking, and new to the world's experience, the situation was not less so.
It was this.  The White population numbered 40,000 in 1831; the Black population numbered three
hundred.  Not 300 warriors, but 300 men, women, and children.  The Whites were armed with guns,
the Blacks with clubs and spears.  The Whites had fought the Blacks for a quarter of a century,
and had tried every thinkable way to capture, kill, or subdue them; and could not do it.  If
white men of any race could have done it, these would have accomplished it.  But every scheme
had failed, the splendid 300, the matchless 300 were unconquered, and manifestly unconquerable.
They would not yield, they would listen to no terms, they would fight to the bitter end.  Yet
they had no poet to keep up their heart, and sing the marvel of their magnificent patriotism.

At the end of five-and-twenty years of hard fighting, the surviving 300 naked patriots were
still defiant, still persistent, still efficacious with their rude weapons, and the Governor
and the 40,000 knew not which way to turn, nor what to do.

Then the Bricklayer--that wonderful man--proposed to go out into the wilderness, with no weapon
but his tongue, and no protection but his honest eye and his humane heart; and track those
embittered savages to their lairs in the gloomy forests and among the mountain snows. Naturally,
he was considered a crank.  But he was not quite that.  In fact, he was a good way short of
that.  He was building upon his long and intimate knowledge of the native character.  The deriders
of his project were right--from their standpoint--for they believed the natives to be mere
wild beasts; and Robinson was right, from his standpoint--for he believed the natives to be
human beings.  The truth did really lie between the two.  The event proved that Robinson's
judgment was soundest; but about once a month for four years the event came near to giving
the verdict to the deriders, for about that frequently Robinson barely escaped falling under
the native spears.

But history shows that he had a thinking head, and was not a mere wild sentimentalist.  For
instance, he wanted the war parties (called) in before he started unarmed upon his mission
of peace.  He wanted the best chance of success--not a half-chance.  And he was very willing
to have help; and so, high rewards were advertised, for any who would go unarmed with him.
This opportunity was declined.  Robinson persuaded some tamed natives of both sexes to go with
him--a strong evidence of his persuasive powers, for those natives well knew that their destruction
would be almost certain.  As it turned out, they had to face death over and over again.

Robinson and his little party had a difficult undertaking upon their hands.  They could not
ride off, horseback, comfortably into the woods and call Leonidas and his 300 together for
a talk and a treaty the following day; for the wild men were not in a body; they were scattered,
immense distances apart, over regions so desolate that even the birds could not make a living
with the chances offered--scattered in groups of twenty, a dozen, half a dozen, even in groups
of three.  And the mission must go on foot.  Mr. Bonwick furnishes a description of those horrible
regions, whereby it will be seen that even fugitive gangs of the hardiest and choicest human
devils the world has seen--the convicts set apart to people the "Hell of Macquarrie Harbor
Station"--were never able, but once, to survive the horrors of a march through them, but starving
and struggling, and fainting and failing, ate each other, and died:

