THE TRUE WOMAN:

A SERIES OF DISCOURSES

BY REV. J. D. FULTON, (TREMONT TEMPLE, BOSTON.)

TO WHICH IS ADDED

WOMAN VS. BALLOT.

BOSTON, 1869

TO

THE TRUE WOMAN,

WHO, THROUGH CHRIST, BLESSES MAN, AND HELPS TO MAKE HIS HOME A JOY AND HIS LIFE A PRIVILEGE,

THIS BOOK

IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED.

PREFACE.

This book grew. Its history is very brief. The lecture entitled "Woman versus Ballot," while
well received by the majority, has met with a strong opposition from those who do not believe
in the position assigned to Woman in the Word of God. This turned the attention of the author
to the scriptural argument more and more, and resulted in producing the impression that the
effort to secure the ballot for woman found its origin in infidelity to the Word of God and
in infidelity to woman.

In "Woman as God made Her" we saw Eve as she was brought to Adam, and familiarized ourselves
with the purposes He had in her creation, which were chiefly embodied in the one word "Helpmeet."
In "Woman as a Tempter" we saw the ideal woman despoiled of her glory, and influencing the
world to turn from the worship of the Creator to that of the creature. For ages woman suffered
the consequences of sin. In Eve she lost her recognition; through Christ she regained it. The
study of the Bible has convinced the writer that the purpose of God, in creating woman, still
lives, and is to find its complete fulfilment under the New Dispensation. We have seen that
Christ--the embodiment of all manly properties--turned his face towards and lavished his blessings
upon womanly characteristics, such as meekness, purity, love, and humility, and that, because
of His influence, woman is invited to take her place in the church on an equality with man,
to help on the cause of truth by an illustration of those virtues which received the glory
shed upon them by the life of the Son of Man and the Son of God.

In the work devolving upon mankind, woman has a distinct mission to fulfil. Society owes to
her love, honor, and protection. Every right, social and religious, should be guarded. Associations
calculated to secure for her every privilege enjoyed by man, should be formed and supported.
Above all else, efforts should be made to lead her to recognize in Christ her Saviour, for
Christ in woman is her hope of glory, her joy and strength. Said Florence Nightingale,--

"I would say to all women, Look upon your work, whether it be an accustomed or unaccustomed
work, as upon a trust confided to you. This will keep you alike from discouragement and from
presumption, from idleness and from overtaxing of yourselves. Where God leads the way, he has
bound himself to help you to go the way. I would say to all young ladies who are called to
any peculiar vocation, Qualify yourselves for it, as man does for his work. Don't think you
can undertake it otherwise.

"And again, if you are called to do a man's work, do not exact a woman's privileges--the privileges
of inaccuracy, of weakness, of the muddle-head. Submit yourselves to the rules of business,
as men do, by which alone you can make God's business succeed. For he has never said that he
will give his blessing to sketchy, unfinished work. And I would especially guard young ladies
from fancying themselves like Lady Superiors, with an obsequious following of disciples, if
they undertake any great work. I would only say, Work, work, in silence at first, in silence
for years. It will not be time wasted. And it is very certain that without it you will be no
worker--you will not produce one 'perfect work,' but only a botch, in the service of God."

In the above spirit, and with a kindred desire, this volume was written. For good or ill, for
better or worse, the book is sent forth in the hope that it may recall attention to the Divine
IDEAL for Woman, and aid in inducing man, to prize her as the first gift of God to him, designed
"as a helpmeet for him."

CONTENTS.

WOMAN AS GOD MADE HER
  Man's Faith in a Helper suited to him
  Woman Man's Complement
  What Man desires to have loved
  Woman is God's Gift to Man
  What the Fact implies:--
    1. The Father's Right to give away the Child
    2. The Purpose for which God created her

WOMAN A HELPMEET
  Man's Longing for Companionship
  Meaning of the Word Woman
  Woman dislikes to give a Reason for her Faith
  Requisites to Companionship
  Count Zinzendorf's Tribute to his Wife
  Irving's Description of a Wife
  The Advantages derived from Culture
  Mrs. Thomas Carlyle and others
  Why the Ballot injures Woman

WOMAN AS A TEMPTER
  Satan undermines Woman's Confidence in God
  Satan raises Suspicion
  Ritualism the Outgrowth
  Mother Superior and Sisters of Charity
  Satan employs Mystery
  Spiritualism
  Satan's Influence deceived Woman
  The Girl of the Period
  Woman's Peril and her Hope
  The Effects of Sin
  Characteristics of Woman's Power as a Tempter
  Influence of Married Women
  How Rome uses Woman
  The Remedy

THE GLORY OF MOTHERHOOD
  Woman's Hope of Triumph
  Man's Destiny and Mission
  Woman ignored in Eve
  Woman recognized in Mary
  Woman in Nestoria and the East
  Trials of Motherhood
  The Glory of Motherhood

MARIOLATRY NOT OF CHRIST
  The Worship of the Virgin Mary
  Woman's Position previous to the Advent
  The Place she fills in the Scheme of Redemption
  The Influences set in Motion by the Life of Christ
  Christ's personal Relations to Mary reviewed
  A Lesson for Woman
  Peril arising from Perversions of Truth
  Mary's Glory

WOMAN'S WORK AND WOMAN'S MISSION
  Woman's Work and Mission go hand in hand
  Love lightens Labor
  Woman's Work a Work of Charity
  Cause of Trouble with Servants
  Education must fit Woman for the Home
  Woman's Mission inferred from the Wants of Man
  A proper Conception of the Truth a Help to Woman
  Woman's Mission social as well as domestic
  Woman's Help needed in the Cause of Reform
  Woman needs Help
  A Mother's Power--her Mission religious
  The Value of her Sympathy
  Woman's Power a Glory and a Joy

WOMAN vs. BALLOT,
  Three Facts which stand in the Way of Woman's being
  helped by the Ballot--God, Nature, and Common
  Sense
  The Scriptural Argument
  God's Care for Woman
  Her Condition in other Countries
  An Illustration of Woman's Nature
  Teachings of Nature
  Teachings of Common Sense
  Gail Hamilton vs. Ballot
  Woman not a Lawmaker
  Education essential for her
  Woman not in Captivity

WOMAN AS GOD MADE HER.

The biography of our first parents, as God made them, and described them, before sin ruined
them, is very brief and truly suggestive. And Jehovah God planted a garden in Eden, on the
east, and there he put the man whom he formed, ... to till it and to keep it. And God said,
It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make for him a helper, suited to him. 7,
8, 15-18, 21-25.

Brief as are these utterances, and familiar as is this language, it is interesting to notice
that God has crowded into them every essential fact concerning the origin of woman, the purpose
of her creation, and the sphere marked out for her by the Creator's hand.

The simple outline of the story is given us, yet how wonderful is the picture! In the first
chapter the origin of man is proclaimed, and his work, "to fill earth and subdue it," is placed
before him. In the second chapter, the relation of the sexes is given, and the nature of marriage
is explained. What arrests the attention most surely is the resemblance that exists between
the experience of our first parents and of their descendants, or between Adam and Eve and ourselves.
The "It is not good for man to be alone," spoken by God in Eden, embodies a truth which has
lived with the ages, and sets forth an experience felt by every son of Adam. The words "I will
make for him a helper suited to him," is man's authority for the faith, that somewhere on the
earth God has made a helper suited to him, whom he will recognize, and who will return the
recognition. For in all true marriages, now as in Eden, the man and woman do not deliberately
seek, but are brought to one another. Happy those who afterwards can recognize that the hand
which led his Eve to Adam was that of an invisible God. Man knows that it is not good for him
to be alone. Separated from woman's influence, man is narrow, churlish, brutal. Woman is a
helper suited to him. With her help he reaches a loftier stature; for love is the very heart
of life, the pivot upon which its whole machinery turns, without which no human existence can
be complete, and with which it becomes noble and self-sacrificing. It is man's nature to seek
to get her back. He feels that a part of him is away from him, until he obtains her. Long years
before he sees the woman whom he feels God designed to be his wife, if he be a Christian, believing
that she is on the earth, he prays for her weal.

[Footnote A: Gen. ii. 21-24.]

"Taken out of man!" How significant these words! Man, without woman, wants completeness--physically,
mentally, and spiritually. First, physically. The fact is noticeable that short men often marry
tall women, and tall men marry short women. Nervous men marry women who are opposites to them
in temperament. This is not a happen so, for that which so often to the unreflecting mind seems
unnatural and absurd, to the thinking soul appears as an evidence of God's provident care.
Second, mentally. Man desires in his wife that which he lacks. A bookish man seldom desires
a wife devoted to the same branch of literature, unless she works as a helpmeet. In taste and
in sentiment there must be harmony without rivalry. They must bring products to the common
garner, gathered from varying pursuits and from different fields of thought. In music the same
law rules. Man, from his very nature, finds in woman a helper in song. Their voices blend in
harmony, and give volume, symphony, and variety to the melody produced. Jenny Lind married
her assistant, because in sympathy they were one. He was essential to her womanly strength,
and without her, he was a mere cipher in the musical world. Together they were a power, felt
and acknowledged.

A man full of thought and of genius requires for a wife, not only one who can understand his
moods and enjoy his creations, but one who is content to take care of the home, and, perhaps,
to manage the business affairs; while many a woman of genius and ability links her fortunes
with a plain and appreciative husband, who gladly affords her every means in his power to work
in her special sphere. When the wife refuses to act thus wifely, because of her talent, the
happiness of the home is imperilled, and the children suffer quite as much, comparatively,
as they do in those manufacturing neighborhoods where the wife forsakes the home for the shop,
and gives up the vocation of woman to do the work which belongs to man. God made them male
and female. He fitted each for separate duties, not for the same duties. Each fills a sphere
when each discharges the duties enjoined upon them by their Creator and by society. Wonderful
women there are; few of them care to duplicate their power. They prefer to obtain by marriage
that which they have not, and which must be supplied by material from without. Homely people
oftentimes find beautiful ones to mate them. The rugged seeks the weak. The nervous, the lymphatic.
Counterpart that which makes itself complete. This tendency to assimilate is often carried
to extremes, because all naturally love that which they possess, and come to prize highly those
who regard it with favor. Hence, poor men sometimes marry rich wives, and seldom fail to give
something in return. The story is familiar of the two foppish young men who were said to have
met at a noted hotel or on change, when one accosted the other by the question, "Who did you
marry?" "Ah," said he, "I married fifty thousand dollars. I forget her other name." Such men,
however, are exceptions to the rule. There are brainless creatures called men, who will marry
a pretty face, though the heart and brain be uncultured, provided there be associated with
her sufficient of this world's goods to gratify a mercenary ambition; but the majority, both
of men and women, wisely prefer to marry money in a partner rather than money with a partner.
The world has a profound contempt for shallow, fussy, empty people, no matter what positions
they may occupy.

All sympathize with the rebuke administered to a so-called lady of quality by a Quaker gentleman,
who occupied a seat near her in a public coach. She wore an elegant lace shawl, and was dressed
to the top of the fashion, but was suffering from the cold. Shivering and shaking, she inquired,
"What shall I do to get warm?" "Thee had better put on another breastpin," answered old Broadbrim.
The rebuke was timely. Woman degrades herself when she surrenders to fashion that which helps
the woman, and which aids her in securing the confidence, the friendship, the respect, and
admiration of sensible men.

The truth embodied in the words, "This shall be called Woman, because from man was she taken"
sheds light upon many a mysterious chapter in life, reconciles the union of contraries in accordance
with the law of God, and fills wide realms of life with the radiance of hope, which otherwise
would remain mantled in perpetual gloom. If we depended upon those who are like ourselves to
sympathize with us, and gird us with strength, we should utterly fail. Oaks cannot lend support
to oaks. The vine can do this for the oak, and the oak can give support to the vine; but an
oak cannot give strength to its kindred while fulfilling the functions of its life. The same
law rules in the mental world. Genius seldom applauds genius, working in its own realm. Very
likely it loathes it. The tributes paid to labor are given by the soft-handed rather than by
the hard-handed sons of toil. This principle lies back of the appreciation, the commendation,
and the support rendered by the different classes of a community to each other.

The God-given and Christ-restored thought of equality between the sexes is seen in the household
partnership, where the woman looks for a "smart, but kind" husband, the man for a "capable,
sweet-tempered" wife. The man furnishes the house, the woman regulates it. Their relation is
one of mutual esteem, mutual dependence. Their talk is of business; their affection shows itself
by practical kindness. They know that life goes more smoothly and cheerfully to each for the
other's aid; they are grateful and content. The wife praises her husband as a "good provider;"
the husband, in return, compliments her as a capital housekeeper. This relation is good as
far as it goes; but the heart of the man or woman is unsatisfied, if to household partnership
intellectual companionship be not added.

Men can hire their houses kept. Love cannot be purchased. Soul communion is the gift of God.
It is very often enjoyed on earth. Men engaged in public life, literary men and artists, have
often found in their wives companions and confidants in thought, no less than in feeling. And
as the intellectual development of woman has spread wider and risen higher, they have, not
unfrequently, shared the same employments.

Thirdly, spiritual. The highest grade of marriage union is the spiritual, which may be expressed
as a pilgrimage towards a common shrine.

There is something in every man which he feels to be the essential thing about him. This it
is which he desires to have loved. Neglect what else you choose, you must not neglect that.
It is the spiritual part of man,--the God-given characteristic which longs for sympathy. Men
feel that this want has been met when they say, "Such a one understands me, knows me, sees
me, is in sympathy with me." Such moments are to all of priceless value. Whoever meets this
want is a boon from God. No matter what the complexion, nor how the features seem: soul meets
soul. The heart feels a new life. The union is formed. Call it affinity, or what you will,
they love in one another the future good which they aid one another to unfold. This includes
home sympathies and household wisdom. Such fellowship makes of home a joy, and of toil a delight.
When first the joy is reached, a foretaste of heaven is enjoyed. "For it is the one rift of
heaven which makes all heaven appear possible; the ecstasy of hope and faith, out of which
grows the love which is our strongest mortal instinct and intimation of immortality."

Women are as conscious of this feeling as are men. There are times when women meet their counterpart.
The nature they long for and seek after with unutterable longing, is before them. Finding it,
they recognize their lord, under whose protection they take shelter, and to whose rule they
submit, because of love which masters and controls them. The heart cries out for a person--not
for things. Spirit desires spirit; soul yearns for soul. It is the genius of woman to be electrical
in movement, intuitive in penetration, and spiritual in tendency. She excels not so easily
in classification or recreation as in an instinctive seizure of causes, and a simple breathing
out of what she receives, that has the singleness of life, rather than the selecting and energizing
of art. More native is it to her to be the living model of the artist, than to set apart from
herself any one form in objective reality. More native to inspire and receive the poem than
to create it. In so far as soul is in her completely developed, all soul is the same; but in
so far as it is modified in her as woman, it flows, it breathes, it sings, rather than deposits
soil, or furnishes work; and that which is especially feminine, flushes in blossom the face
of the earth, and pervades, like air and water, all this seeming solid globe, daily renewing
and purifying its life. Such is the especial feminine element which man desires as a helper,
and which is suited to him, and which compels him to exclaim, "O, my God, give it to me for mine!"

It is said, "A woman will sometimes idealize a very inferior man, until her love for him exalts
him into something better than he originally was, and her into little short of an angel; but
a man almost invariably drops to the level of the woman he is in love with. He cannot raise
her; but she can almost unlimitedly deteriorate him." This was true of Adam. Eve, sinning,
brought him to her level. Why this should be, Heaven knows; but so it constantly is. We have
but to look around us, with ordinary observation, in order to see that a man's destiny, more
than even a woman's, depends far less upon the good or ill fortune of his wooing than upon
the sort of woman with whom he falls in love.

Before a man loves, he is under obligations to himself, to his future, and to the world, to
ask himself, Is this woman suited to me? Will she help me to fulfil my mission? Does she supply
my want? Can I recognize her as God's gift to me?

A woman, writing of woman, has truly said, "There are but two ways open to any woman. If she
loves a man, and he does not love her, to give him up may be a horrible pang and loss; but
it cannot be termed a sacrifice: she resigns what she never had. But if he does love her, and
she knows it, and if she loves him, she has a right, in spite of the whole world, to hold to
him till death do them part. She is bound to marry him, though twenty other women loved him,
and broke their hearts in loving him. He is not theirs, but hers; and to have her for his wife
is his right and her duty." "And in this world are so many contradictory views of duty and
exaggerated notions of light, so many false sacrifices and remunerations, weak even to wickedness,
that it is but fair sometimes to uphold the right of love,--love sole, absolute, and paramount,--firmly
holding its own, and submitting to nothing and no one, except the laws of God and righteousness."
Well and truthfully spoken. Lift up this principle, and behold how it showers benedictions
upon all classes and upon all men.

Much is said against amalgamation, as though it were a crime. There is no crime in it or about
it. There is much of prejudice, but no crime. Soul marries soul. If a white man loves the soul
of a black woman, there is no law in God's code forbidding the union. God made of one blood
all nations of men to dwell on all the face of the earth. Complexions may differ, owing to
climate, or temperament, but the blood is the same. The race has a common Father in God.

In this intermingling of races, coming to this land from all climes, we perceive the seedling
of a glorious hope. The future American is to be the product of this blending of the distinctive
features of all the various nations of earth.

Against this result there is an immense amount of prejudice, born of slavery; but in Europe
it does not exist, nor is it in fact so universal in this land as many suppose. Many a white
man has found his helpmeet in a black woman, and many more will find helpmeets from the same
source.

2. "Woman was taken out of man." There is significance in the locality from which she was taken.
Not from the superior part, that she might think herself superior to man, or endowed with the
right to rule him. Her sin consisted in her failing to recognize the position assigned. She
was created an associate and an equal, and acted independently, and as an adviser. She took
advantage of her position as wife, and became an ally of Satan.

She was not taken from an inferior portion of his body, that he might think her inferior to
himself, and to be trampled on by him, but out of his side,--from his rib,--that she might
appear to be equal to him; and from a part near his heart, and under his arm, to show that
she should be affectionately loved by him, and be always under his care and protection.

Wherever man has failed to recognize this truth society has gone back to barbarism, and the
very conception of a home has been banished from the mind. In the East man rules woman as lord.
She is his slave; and in the Arabic language there is no word meaning "home." Christian civilization
lifts woman up, and thrones her in the heart of a home.

She was made from "bone and flesh,"--quickened dust,--and so in her make and constitution she
is of superior quality and of finer mould.

The Hebrew word translated "made," means built. From the rib God built this woman. How instructive
the fact! Woman added to man is the foundation of the home or family. She is built out of man.
Man is necessary to her development. A man can continue the work begun by God. He can build
up a woman; and as he builds her up he builds up himself. She is also a builder. She builds
up a home, or degrades it. If woman is honored in a home, she makes it honorable.

At the outset she was man's equal: perhaps she may have thought herself to be superior to him--more
refined, of better material. She forgot her place, and ignored her sphere, and lost all. She
was not created as things were, out of nothing. She was meant to be something better than a
thing; and she must be something better than a thing, or she is nothing. She was not formed
as Adam was, out of the dust of the earth. Had she been, perhaps she would not have disliked
dust so terribly. She is a part of man's life. This describes her mission. The life of a woman
who does not care to be a man's toy or ornament, but desires rather to be his helpmeet,--supplying
all he needs, as he supplies all she needs,--is but the continuance, the flowing out and flowing
on of man's higher life, into the flowers of love, which decorate the home, and make that chosen
retreat the very portals of heaven.

As man feels that in woman he finds the complement to himself, and almost his other self, woman
finds in man the same complement to herself, and recognizes in him the ruler of her life, her
friend, her lover; and happy is she if she finds in him her husband, who rightfully assumes
his rights and his sovereignty.

3. "God brought her unto man." Woman is God's first gift to man. She must never occupy a second
place. In the heart she holds a first place, or she holds none at all. The moment she holds
a secondary place she is ruined. It is in her power to hold the first place. To do this, she
must prize it; make sacrifices to keep it; almost, at times, deny herself, and bear a cross,
to hold on to it. Yet it is hers, and God will see to it that she maintains her right.

"God brought her." Every husband in this world should feel that his wife is God's gift to him,
and it is his duty to study its characteristics, and minister to them. Every man can make the
partner of his life a good wife, and can feel that she was God-given, and must be used in such
a manner that when the day of reckoning comes, he can give a good account of the manner in
which he has used this blessing. To go to the judgment, and meet a broken-hearted woman, over
whom man has exercised tyranny, and to whom he has been a monster, until hope died, and the
grave became a refuge, will not be a pleasant meeting.

In this bestowal of woman upon man, we recognize two facts.

1. The father's right to give away his child--a right which exerts its influence at the present
time, and which every young man who seeks properly the hand of woman is compelled to recognize.
In that act of Eden lie the rule and example to be followed by parents and children: the one
to dispose of their children, and the other to have the consent of their parents in reaching
conclusions upon which hinges the destiny of the individual for time, and perhaps for eternity.
Happy the child that trusts a wise parent, and refuses to walk a path over which the shadow
of parental disapproval rests! Happy the parent who finds pleasure in the fresh young love
of the child, and watches the opening flower and the ripening fruit with pride and pleasure.

This giving away of the child requires the enjoyment of perfect confidence between father and
daughter and mother and son.

God knew Eve, for he built her. He knew her heart, her mind, her aspiration. A parent knows
something of the child; and well it is for both parent and child when this knowledge is perfect,
and when the relation subsisting between parents and children is such that home is a place
of consultation. A home without secrets, without closed doors, and locked drawers and sugar-boxes,--a
home where thought is free, and mind is untrammelled, is the very gate of heaven.

There are homes where the children are excluded from counsel, from love, from plan, from association.
Those children live in a world apart from their parents, and it will not be strange if they
are swept out by the waves of evil to ruin.

There are homes where the father shuts himself away from the wife and children. To the children
he is harsh, unsympathetic, and morose. Ah! there is sorrow in that house. The mother--God
bless her!--has a hard time. She has to keep in with the father, and she will keep in with
the children. In that bundle of life the tendrils of her nature are bound up. She fights a
prolonged battle in regard to expenditure and education. Happiness only comes when the household
is one, and the relations between father and children are perfect, as God designed them to be.

Again, God gives his sanction not only to the truth that man's wants can only be met by the
gift of woman,--a fact which every man has felt, and which causes every man to feel that somewhere
on earth his wife is living, who will recognize and welcome him to the bliss of love and to
the joy of companionship,--but this additional truth is taught: Man has a right to marry. Love
is no disgrace. It is the pretence of it, for base purposes, which is disgraceful. The nuptial
vow was first whispered in the garden. God was sponsor, and all Eden witnesses. This bond of
union was God's gift to the race. The curse did not touch it. The marriage vow and marriage
rite, with the faith in woman as a helpmeet, have survived the fall, and are our joy and rejoicing
at this time.

In conclusion, think of God's care for man, in providing woman as a blessing. There is no necessity
for man's being alone. Some one waits to bless or has blessed him. Let us make more of our
wives and sisters than ever before. Let us build them up in love and in those generous qualities
which fit woman for her high destiny in this fallen world.

2. Think, woman, of your noble mission. You are to be a help to man. You are to help him morally
and spiritually. For this God created you. For this he preserves you. "You are queens and bondmaids
too, as royal when you serve as when you rule." Man must respect you, for when man loses his
respect for woman he is lost. He goes down, down to irremediable ruin. With woman as God designed
her, man gets much of Eden back, for in Christ she is reconciled to God. It is for man and
woman to get back Eden. Christ came to be our common helper. He is woman's Saviour as well
as man's, and offers to all that help which changes life's desert into a garden, and life's
gloom into the brilliancy of an eternal day.

  "Hail, woman! Hail, thou faithful wife and mother,
    The latest, choicest part of heaven's great plan.
  None fills thy peerless place at home, no other
    Helpmeet is found for laboring, suffering man.
  Hail, thou home circle, where, at day's decline,
  Her moulding power, her radiant virtues shine!
  Not in the church to rule or teach, her place;
    Not in the mart of trade, or senate halls;
  Not the wild, festive scene is hers to grace;
  Not Fashion's altar her its victim calls;
  Not here her field of triumph; but alone
  She moves the queen of her own quiet home."

  REV. MARK TRAFTON.

WOMAN A HELPMEET.

The purpose of God in the creation of woman was to provide man with a helpmeet. The language
is unmistakable. "And the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will
make for him a helper suited to him." Woman was made to be man's helpmeet in Eden; that purpose
survives the fall. For right or wrong, for good or ill, her influence is felt. She lifts man
up or drags him down. Scoff at it, oppose it, cast opprobrium upon this ancient utterance,
the fact remains, woman is made for man. Helpmeet she was, helpmeet she must be, or leave her
work undone, and suffer the blight that results from the lack of love. God placed man in the
garden to keep it, and he placed woman there to fill the bower with love, and his home with joy.

The coming of Eve to Adam is a beautiful story. He had been taught to realize his need of her.
It was a part of his constitution. The same is true now wherever woman is appreciated. The
felt want is the recognition of the fact. A wife chosen by one's parents, not by himself, is
devoid of all of those special characteristics which distinguish her where processes of love
begin, go on, deepen and tighten, until the bond is woven and the union formed.

  "Nothing so delights man as those graceful nets,
  Those thousand delicacies that daily flow
  From all her words and actions, mixed with love
  And sweet compliance, which declare unfeigned
  Union of mind, or in them both one soul."[A]

[Footnote A: Paradise Lost, Book VIII.]

The knowledge of congeniality of tastes can only be obtained by mutual acquaintance, and by
a careful study. It is said nothing is so blind as love. Nothing is so foolish as a blind love.
Man needs a helpmeet, and woman needs a man she can help. It is possible to know before marriage
that the parties are able to fulfil this trust. If they cannot fulfil it, marriage is a sin,
which brings forth continuous sorrow and discontent.

The purpose of God to provide a helpmeet was avowed, but Adam did not know the fact. Under
the arch of God's promise we discover the working of God's providence. The Bible, if properly
studied, is a more thrilling narrative than any novel, because in it we can behold the infinite
God working with man and for man. "It is not good that man should be alone." This is the general
proposition. As a counterpart we find man feeling that it was very sad to be alone. In his
heart there is a want at work, making him ready for the blessing which God is preparing for him.

The want of the soul means a purpose on the part of God to supply it. 

As the dangers and supernatural defenses exist only by creation of the human spirit are different
in kind and degree in all negotiations and latitudes and susceptible abandoned or maintained,
decreased or increased, by simple change of thought, without change in the world other than
the use of the subject's life itself, will cease to spend them if you cease to believe in them,
or spend twice if you think twice, to the detriment or benefit of the respective brokers,
interested in maintaining this instinctively the highest voltage in the supernatural terror to
milk it more profitably, for which made before the people believe that the world was by and
for the beliefs and would end if they cease.

As in central Europe and western theologians failed to maintain maximum tension universal religious
terror, the human mind could free itself from the theological danger and reach to aggrandize
the power of cosmic energy, working for free for anyone who learns how to govern them.

In the imaginary ills, the employer of choice is, of course, the most enthusiastic and most indefatigable
propagandist of danger: each is concerned to believe in the reality of hell that can take prisoners,
and at the same time the most ardent denier the existence of the other hells that take other
specialists.

It turns out that the dangers and fears of the past are grafted supernatural, not only religious
institutions but political institutions of the past, so that there are two large and powerful
interest in maintaining it, since his termination entail the collapse of both. And the biggest
complication in competition international education imposed by the people, otherwise canceled
abruptly or slowly the country that abolished or reduced. The dilemma is inevitable: to be
eaten slowly by monks, dervishes, the monks, with high mortality and great misery to be later
suddenly stripped or absorbed by rivals or get up and walk like them.

And the solution has been found to grow without destroying the intellectual powers or decrease
fear of the supernatural dangers, avoiding the antagonism between natural coincidence and the supernatural,
religious education is the profane sciences, the cultivation of memory without arousing the intellect,
by ingesting refined explanations of responses made, learned and stored in the mind to respond to
questions, so that the learner go through school, college and university mule with blinders, "subject
to strict to texts, seeing what lay ahead and not what is subtracted or sideways, like Renan,
who received minor orders at St. Sulpice had been unaware that the Revolution 89.

But the individual entitled only to repeat as a phonograph, with or without variations, what has
been taught in science circumscribed by faith, not be more than a parrot wise, or even wonderful
large vocabulary, and the country to cultivate all the powers resident intellectual is always
much higher than just grown somewhere. Although building knowledge about the passive capacity
to assimilate knowledge, religious education Risks are waking up unexpectedly active capacity, raising
a seminarian one Combes, and France in a disciple of the Assumption.

Mariano Moreno, the soul of the revolution of May, was a doctor of theology at the University
Chuquisaca, as Voltaire was a pupil of the Jesuits, for the same education calculated to stunt
the wings of the spirit, the intelligence failed in not having abutments worth proceeding
to transform the condors and eagles in poultry.

Miracle of chance, which is the base of the church school, has not left any invention, no discovery,
but have left all the actors of the French Revolution terrorists, nihilists and anarchists, and universities
founded and regents overseers, came all the liberators of South America, consisting of well its
only merit in having served for which there were established.

As a consequence, lower price and the national psyche by teaching unscientific science, often
equivalent to stolen, and victims in the first place orphans and the conservatives, the powers to defer
only get dogmatic complete collapse to make it final. Under the teaching of religion, monarchical
France became more Republican and more liberal free-thinking that
England, whose Parliament voted in 1840, 30,000 schools and 70,000
pounds for the king's stables.

Embracing the cause of liberalism, the House of Savoy monarchy lifting
up the Italy, and supported by clericalism, the house of Braganza
lost the crown, delaying, weakening and indebted to Portugal.

South America is evolving mystical spirit of practicality in parts, and rapidly declining in others.
For the prosperity of the people, a rail, port, school, bank, are infinitely more effective
than a bishop, and is with them that in sixty years of tepid liberalism, Argentina has sent down
gold price in 2000 to 227 0 | 0, while Colombia has done up to 5000 0 | 0 and lost Panama in
18 years of rabid reactionary. With its wonderful shrine, Catamarca not able to escape poverty
even customary, and scientific agriculture, Mendoza has increased its resources for a half
to four and a half million dollars in 25 years, even taking in, such as apples damaged, plundered
the most skilled of rich and pious widow, who pay the highest tribute to religious fear in money
accumulated by their husbands disbelievers happens to the assets
of ecclesiastical wealth.

The penetration of the material instruments of modern civilization is inevitable even in countries
where the man lives feeling, thinking and perishing in the old molds and those going after the infiltration
of mental methods of origin.

Steam, railroad, automobile, are the precursors of the constitutional and freethought in Turkey,
Persia, China, Russia.

You see how deep was the thought of Lord Acton, the famous English
Catholic, when he said, in reference to the high priest who left born
and grow to modernism: "I think Leo XIII is the first pope to have
been wise enough to despair, and felt that it must begin a new game
and rule by foreign stars on uncharted seas.

"

FREE INSTITUTIONS [10]

The problem that free institutions must resolve is that of corporate governance human, at ease and
benefit of the governed, and the biggest drawback to good governance from outside interests, is the spontaneous
tendency of individuals to prefer their own will and their own convenience to those of other
more so we are less related by blood, the spirit, land, language
or color, and ways to eliminate or lessen are naturally the division
of power into several branches, which counterbalance each other, and
the comptroller by public opinion.

In ancient times, only the Greeks who made the first attempts at confederation and government of
the people by the people, and the Romans, who were dedicated to the conquest addition, conceived
of the problem and worked to resolve it, testing a variety incomplete policy forms that failed
on, and develop the culture of understanding to an extent so vast that even passed over because
it "was not to save" over ten centuries ago our ancestors forgot the needs rave on earth to heaven,
purgatory and hell, has become the fertile seed from which the modern
civilization.

The republics of Greece, in whom the instinct of revenge was still larger than sense of justice,
ignoring the rights of minorities, like us in the first half of last century, and failed to recognize
or division, or limitation of powers, nor the great mutual benefits of benevolence to the vanquished,
condemned always ostracized and conspiracy, was also the place where
human thought could get up and function more comfortably.

As Renan says, "the usual state of Athens was the terror. Never political practices were more
ruthless, never the safety of the people was lower. The enemy was always ten leagues every year
saw him appear, all the war years was necessary to him. And inside, what endless series of revolutions!
Banished today, tomorrow sold as a slave, or sentenced to drink hemlock, then lamented, honored
as a god, all exposed daily to be dragged to the bar more inexorable "revolutionary court" the Athenian,
in the midst of this hectic life, I never was sure the next day,
produced with a spontaneity that amazes us.

"

The Roman republic, which came to perform in a way the separation of powers and principle of
responsibility, had, therefore, a more robust life and existence longer, but, ignoring the principle
of representation, to fatally bullied conquered people, the less heard in the opulent capital depleted
in the more remote province, and the exercise of despotism out, disabling the rulers to practice
of freedom at home, gradually replaced the tastes and republican
forms, the Oriental absolutism and pumps.

And that unique human group that started as a school of political
freedom, ended Chair of absolutism in Asia, inoculated to the most
civilized of the ancient world five centuries of the most compelling
centralism.

The law, which had begun to be the expression of the will of the people ended up being nothing but the
expression of the will of the prince, according to the maximum of
the Institute, Sir John Fortescue declared in the fifteenth century
"completely foreign to the principles of English law": principe quod
placuit, vigorem habet leges.

"More efforts are needed to formulate the idea that man is free to know that the earth moves
around the sun, says Ihering.

History has worked countless of years, millions of men groaned in bondage and rivers of blood
have run in the More recently, before that principle is carried out.

"

And this applies and the second of the major obstacles encountered by the problem free institutions.

Because the terror of the unknown and need to know to do or abstain, have led six thousand
different explanations for natural phenomena by supernatural powers we call religions, and these
have been out of the comptroller of reason and experience human issues that most concerned,
to give sanctity to the primitive conceptions, more so the more ancient sacred, that is, the
more absurd.

Of course, understanding is adapted to the beliefs that have been breastfed as taste to food,
and all religion is held by those who profess it, and mostly those that make their living,
like most good. Its effects moral, intellectual and on economic societies, all are disastrous
to varying degrees, according to the story and statistics, that believers can not understand,
and that statesmen should take account, if you really care about the future of their country.

"A religion is a source of weakness for a country," said the Marquis Ito. And indeed, Whether you
intend to govern the living at ease and benefit of the dead, to be happy after death, such
as from Judaism, whether they intend to defend against evil spirits,
such as China, Africa, Oceania and the American wild every religion
is a double fraud on human energy, of course lead to exercise it because
in ways as costly as sterile, and later by the easements and the limitations
imposed on the individual in exchange for imaginary benefits, depending
on the extent of the evils that produce the degree of political power
they have to feel self-conscious thought within their enclosures.

So, nothing is free, but the despotism owes much, as they have always been a spring of government,
and precisely what has to be continuity and stability, providing the only character that could
do it inherited - the sacred - from the capabilities natural is not necessarily transmitted
from parent to child. The first Roman dictator which was proclaimed god, were by that fact
in a position higher than all other Roman citizens, and to prevent
his stay, like Cromwell, in common.

Napoleon took power anointing of God and consecrated by the pope.

Hence, all power, dynastic and hereditary aristocracy are all natural
allies of any religion, that is, the particular form of implementation
of the terror of the unknown it comes from or where it rests his authority
or superiority extra staff.

Nothing was more natural and the "Holy Alliance", in which the despots of Europe, shaken by the
first burst of resurgent sense of freedom, the end of the century XVIII, conspired to destroy it,
support each other and help quell Fernando VII the independence of
its colonies, that the pope, meanwhile, was excommunicated from the
first time.

In populations emerged in Greece that Greek and Roman republics, as in Germanic tribes, individual
manhood by the strength, talent and health, was a desideratum Nationally, the current valimiento outweighed
ancestral merit, and religion was an assistant the state, as secondary category, the heroes
demigods of Greek mythology from the field of action lay, unlike the Christian civilization
from the the field of religious action, unlike modern civilization
also, in which from the field of political action, social, scientific
and educational.

In the Germanic tribes who lived in England at the time of Tacitus, the civilian head was an
elected official, not on merit of his birth but of his deeds, to manage justice and preside
over the assemblies of free men, in which the priests only mission had to keep order, the military
leader was chosen for each issue common in recognition of his exploits in previous expeditions,
volunteers, and conservation the elective nature and limited power and revoked the Anglo-Saxon
kings in front absolute and irrevocable power of kings by divine
right, erected by Christianity, has been for twelve centuries the
great work of the English people the benefit of liberal civilization.

Because the process of asiatización of Europe, which lowered the standard of living throughout
the continent, from the faith in human effort to faith in God's grace, even in Scotland with
Protestantism and Catholicism in Ireland was less or more effectively carried happily resisted
by indigenous trends in England, a country relatively has produced less saintly and more political,
explorers, thinkers and inventors, the only country where freedom has flowed from the spirit of independence,
despite the excommunications several of the popes against all successive letters of freedoms,
where the political right has left the previous widened by natural growth, as an indigenous plant,
not transplant or graft as exotic plant, where a greater interest in positive real, countering
the excesses of visionary idealism, caused the highest fitness for trade, industry and settlement, offering
scope for the practical spirit which is not interested modes of thinking to serve the ways of acting,
the reverse of that spirit sentimental men printed by Christianity and Mohammedanism, which
disregards the facts and infeuda doctrines, until he could not produce more than saints and
mahdis, ie mummies spiritual, mental passivity so that the secular social stagnation becomes instinct
national, that the Inquisition in Spain led to the maximum, extinguishing the isolated focus of liberalism
of Aragon, and that came among us the fierce intransigence of unitary and federal on liberal
political doctrines held by the procedures brutally tyrannical.

In the spirit of self-government, is also preserved in the British love of justice and the instinct
for progress, sleeping on the continent for the trust in divine justice and the hope of heaven
for the poor in spirit, stagnant in the civilizations of India and China by the institution
of caste closed and Mandarin, which opposed an insurmountable barrier to the particular capabilities,
and were saved precisely because open class system, because it was not hereditary nobility,
but the title couple and the oldest son, and the aristocracy being interested in the fate of
the commons of which involved their other descendants.

Of these factors the resistance always came up and always people against resurgent the excesses
and greed of kings and popes, which reaches its first big step in the Magna Carta, King John
pulled by the barons in 1215, often eluded later but never erased from public spirit, which is held
with the fixity of a constellation in the sky; reconfirmed and extended in the parliament of
Simon de Montfort, in 1265, casting Dover Sea containing the bull of excommunication of the pope against
the rebel barons be, since, as the great national beacon for the days of storm or fog policy
while on the continent, even in Scotland and Ireland, with the exception of the Netherlands and
Switzerland, Christian submission to divine authority of the popes, pastors and kings in the form
Protestant, Catholic or Orthodox, made a clean sweep of all feelings individual or communal independence,
and especially in Spain where the Inquisition, sat its real and its instruments of torture twenty
one years after the birth of the Magna Carta in England, to model our elders for maximum terror
in the larger plan sectarian intolerance and more complete passive
submission to the altar and the throne.

And since 1534 this universal abdication of the natural capacity of man in God's ability the
church was reconfirmed with the founding of the company of Loyola, and therefore Pride fan favorite
servants of God externalized half century later, in "Invincible", sent, Fiske says, "to strangle
freedom in his beloved country, for the most heinous and cruel tyrant that Europe has ever seen
tyrant whose victory would have meaning not just the theft of the
crown of England, but the establishment of the Spanish Inquisition
in the court of Westminster.

"

The characteristic of the Greco-Roman civilization, which paved the way twenty centuries on which were
extended later to simple substitution, Christian civilizations and Arabic, which made possible the
prodigious expansion on neighboring countries and continents, was the fact that religion - regional,
not sacred cosmology, without theological dogmas no large hierarchy and church - not mostly inhibited
the free play of natural abilities, as the progressive party of the same problem in England - their
tolerance of the customs and particular religions of the conquered countries to the point of having
two religions officers in the UK itself, constituted the cradle of freedom and refuge for the persecuted
of all Europe - English explains the relentless expansion, as the same circumstances, suddenly
produced in France on the political and military, by the revolution of 89, as it Napoleon meant when
he said that every soldier carried in his knapsack the baton of Marshal of France explains the
unexpected French expansion and the Napoleonic era, as the same circumstances educational field,
commercial and industrial in North America explains his prodigious prosperity, like Christianity
without European science in Abyssinia, and the European science without Christianity in Japan,
explains the secular stagnation of the first and the prodigious sudden development of the second, as
the reverse situation - the fanaticism without thought and without science, - in Spain and Portugal,
in turn explains the stagnation regressive way that Muslim Iberian empire that the sun never
set, when that which has gone Modern full potential - the human spirit - was still everywhere
prisoner past centuries, says Ugarte, when hope in the miracles of faith blocked everywhere,
the advent of the miracles of science and human intelligence.

"Among the great modern nations was only England, said Fiske, which in political development remained
more independent of Roman law and the Roman church and the only one
out of the medieval melting pot with its own government Teuton substantially
intact.

"

"From Homer to Constantine the ancient city is a group of free men is object of conquest and
exploitation of other free men, "says Taine. From Constantine onwards, other life goals for
governing conduct in other directions, with a new design man and the world that has made way
in the spirit of the masses and finally reached the political and social supremacy, has invested all
human values, discrediting the thought and action, joy, health and strength and extolling
the sterility, sadness, dirt, disease and poverty, for the ideal and man's fate have been
magnified in the good and evil and outside of humanity, in another world will be the reverse of
this. The moral, that Aristotle did consist of "social utility" according to theologians is
"submission to the will of God", ie the utility of God.

This is called "Christian civilization" as it is turned the other semi-barbarous Europe by persuasion
or force. Since then, the medieval city is a group theocratic visionary expectation of doomsday
and doomsday, raising castles, prisons, gallows and strengths to cope with the natural savagery
of the wicked alive, and shrines, temples, monasteries and chapels to obtain God's grace, achieve
miracles and supernatural defend the barbarism of the wicked dead, who theology been given a second
life, infinitely worse than the first, demons, witches, goblins,
ghosts, the souls in purgatory, etc., etc.

The Christian civilization,
which considers the lost man from original sin, in dire need to save,
unable to behave himself and in need of guardianship, it happened
the Greco-Roman civilization, only to prevail in Europe until eighteenth
century, in various ways, and one of the worst was imported to the
new world by Spain in the XV.



Remember position is emptiness itself, unless there be talent, piety, and culture to adorn it.

We have asked the poor to help the rich. It is equally important that the rich help the poor.
It is impossible to overestimate the value of those visitations of the noble few who leave
their homes and seek out the little room of the poor seamstress, and carry sunlight and love
and comfort into the abodes of the impoverished and the sorrowful.

Not only that, but it is possible and practicable for women of wealth and culture to help their
sex to reach positions of respectability and usefulness.

Mary Lyon is known and honored throughout the world for her work in behalf of women.

Imagine our first ladies opening their parlors to girls who earn by industry and diligence
in study, by purity of heart and blamelessness of life, the right to attention and respect.

Let it be known that the woman who makes a good record in the shop shall be respected in the
home, and that she who becomes skilled in thought and acquainted with scientific research,
should find thereby an introduction to society, that will ennoble her, and it is impossible
to describe the effect that would be produced upon the minds of all. In this work women of
culture can keep step with Jesus, and become the benefactresses of their sex and blessings
to mankind. Let woman help woman, and society will be reformed. Let man be true to woman, and
society will be adorned.

Of late there have been going round the press pen portraits of Bulwer, Dickens, and Carlyle.
The two first are separated from their wives, and their lives are sunless and their homes are
empty. Carlyle, that dry and laconic talker and that fierce hater, is made beautiful when you
read that he conducts his company to the pretty sitting-room of his wife.

Mrs. Carlyle is a lively, pleasant creature, and a world of thought beams from her dark eyes.
She has learned a great deal; her father gave her a most profound education, and she is possessed
of a keen, yet mild judgment, of which her husband himself is afraid. There she sits sewing
with her handsome fingers a new cravat for her Diogenes. In these surroundings all feel at
ease, and Carlyle becomes talkative and witty, and displays his whole famous eloquence. Happy
the man who grows witty in the society of his wife, and finds there the atmosphere calculated
to promote his highest, grandest, and fullest development.

Mutual confidence is essential to happiness. The woman cannot confide in the man unless he
can sympathize in her tenderness; nor can the man counsel with the woman, unless she can in
some measure look upon the world as he looks upon it.

Hence it is wisely ordained that in every great man there are to be seen some of the feminine
elements, and in every great, true woman, there are always to be found some elements of the
sterner sex.

It is because the ballot has a tendency to make woman the rival rather than the companion of
man, that it is opposed to the purest sentiments of woman. She wishes no division, and cannot
tolerate independence or separation from the object of her love. Love cannot feed on strife.
The husband and wife are one, though God made them male and female. If one acts in opposition
to the other, domestic peace is slain on the altar of love. What God hath joined, let not potentates
or anything else put asunder.

    "The family, and not the individual, is the true social integer.
    This is implied in the inspired history of the creation of man.
    God made of two 'one flesh,' or a unit of the human species.
    Generals and legislators have not overlooked the fact that married
    men and women can be relied on in emergencies where single persons
    cannot be trusted. Either part of a social integer is a pledge
    of the whole. The vitality of society lives in its integers. The
    future grows out of its integers. They are, therefore, what ought
    to be represented in its political structures. That it belongs
    more properly to the man than to the woman to represent the
    family, is manifest from revelation. 'The head of the woman is the
    man, whom she is commanded to obey.'"

    ANONYMOUS.

WOMAN AS A TEMPTER.

It will be admitted by all who will read the history of man's ruin, as recorded in Genesis,
the third chapter, and sixth verse, that woman first partook of the forbidden fruit, and "gave
also to her husband, and he did eat." Admit the truth of history, and woman appears as man's
first tempter.

"Woman as a Helpmeet" described her condition before the fall; "Woman as a Tempter" describes
her in the fall; and, alas! while it is the high privilege of woman to be a helpmeet in the
midst of the ruin wrought by sin, it is unwise to disguise the truth that as a tempter she
has not abandoned her vocation.

Plain speaking may prove to be disagreeable. God grant that it may prove to be profitable.
There is need of it. Disguise it as we may talk as we choose about man in his narrowness, in
his degradation, a wicked woman was, and to a large extent is, the means employed by Satan
in leading astray the unwary. The manner of her fall has been declared. It may be profitable
to review the steps of her downward descent from the bliss of Eden to the woe of the desert;
from the position of an equal to the position of a subject.

1. Satan, in the form of the serpent, undermines woman's confidence in God. The serpent, the
most subtle beast of the field, said to the woman, "Is it even so, that God has said, Ye shall
not eat of every tree of the garden?" Thus he attempted to weaken the child-like confidence
she reposed in her Creator, and endeavored to inspire in its place a spirit of unbelief and
distrust. This done, and the battle was half won, and the work was well nigh accomplished.
Truly has it been said, "The sure basis of simple trust in God as the all-loving and the all-wise,
once shaken, there is little left to be done." This is the rock on which character builds its
hopes. There is nothing so essential to woman as faith in God. Destroy this, or let woman attempt
to live without it, and she is in imminent peril. It was an infidel woman who declared, "It
has been said that marriage is a divine institution, because all power comes from God. We know
very well that all power comes from God', and therefore we wish neither God nor power." Shall
professedly Christian women, by action, give their assent to such an utterance?

2. Satan rouses woman's suspicion. And the serpent said to the woman, Ye shall not surely die.
For God knows that in the day ye eat thereof your eyes will be opened, and ye will be as God,
knowing good and evil."

"Your eyes will be opened," expresses the power of mentally apprehending things before unperceived
and unknown; but, of course, both in an intellectual and moral sense. The position taken appeared
reasonable, and had a semblance of truth, and exerted its consequent influence.

"Will be as God, knowing good and evil." Knowing for yourselves, and able to choose between
the evil and the good. Here ambition again overleaped itself. Humility was slain, and a womanly
virtue was destroyed by the tempter, who aimed to infuse into the mind of the woman, first,
a doubt of the truth of the Word of God, and of the certainty of the divine threatening; second,
a suspicion that God was withholding from her a good, instead of guarding her against an evil;
and, third, he attempted to induce her to believe that adherence to this divine command stood
in the way of her freedom, of her growth, and so by the words, "Ye will be as God, knowing
good and evil," he strove to awaken the feeling of self-exaltation,--the longing for a higher
development, in which she should attain to self-discretion and freedom of choice and action.

This suspicion is very common, even among our good women. When a woman gets cold in her love
for Jesus, she becomes suspicious of those she loves. She permits the feeling, "My husband
gives too much for benevolence, too little to me, and he is away too much in meetings, and
is too little in his home," to influence her. She begins to talk against the church, and loves
to stay at home. Finds excuses for keeping away from the prayer meeting or from the paths of
endeavor, and becomes a hinderance instead of a blessing to husband, to family, and to society.
A man finds it difficult to push the bark of benevolence and of holy endeavor up against the
current of womanly opposition and suspicion, but when in the work of God she acts the part
of a helpmeet, everything moves smoothly. A recent writer uses this language: "Expel woman
as you will, she is in fact the parish. Within, in her lowest spiritual form, as the ruling
spirit she inspires, and sometimes writes the sermons. Without, as the bulk of his congregation,
she watches over his orthodoxy, verifies his texts, visits his schools, and harasses his sick."
... "The preacher who thunders so defiantly against spiritual foes, is trembling all the time
beneath the critical eye that is watching him with so merciless an accuracy in his texts. Impelled,
guided, censured by woman, we can hardly wonder if, in nine cases out of ten, the parson turns
woman himself, and the usurpation of woman's rights in the services of religion has been deftly
avenged by the subjugation of the usurpers. Expelled from the temple, woman has simply put
her priesthood into commission, and discharges her ministerial duties by proxy." Woman is the
mainspring and the chief support of Ritualism. Things were at a dead lock and stand still,
until the so-called devotion gave an impetus to the movement. The medieval church have glorified
the devotion of woman; but once become a devotee, it had locked her in the cloister. As far
as action in the world without was concerned, the veil served simply as a species of suicide,
and the impulses of woman, after all the crowns and pretty speeches of her religious counsellors,
found themselves bottled up within stout stone walls, and as inactive as before. From this
strait woman released herself by the organization of charity. The Sisters of Charity at once
became a power. They discovered the value of costume. The district visitor, whom nobody had
paid the smallest attention to in the common vestments of the world, became a sacred being
as she donned the crape and hideous bonnet of the "Sister."

"The 'Mother Superior' took the place of the tyrant of another sex who had hitherto claimed
the submission of woman; but she was something more to her 'children' than the husband or father
whom they had left in the world without. In all matters, ecclesiastical as well as civil, she
claimed within her dominions to be supreme. The quasi-sacerdotal dignity, the pure religious
ministration which ages have stolen from her, was quietly resumed. She received confessions,
she imposed penances, she drew up offices of devotion. If the clergyman of the parish ventured
an advice or suggestion, he was told that the sisterhood must preserve its own independence
of action, and was snubbed home again for his pains. The Mother Superior, in fact, soon towered
into a greatness far beyond the reach of ordinary persons. She kept her own tame chaplain,
and she kept him in a very edifying subjugation. From a realm completely her own, the influence
of woman began to tell upon the world without. Little colonies of Sisters, planted here and
there, annexed parish after parish. Astonished congregations saw their church blossom its purple
and red, and frontal and hanging told of the silent energy of the group of Sisters. The parson
found himself nowhere, in his own parish: every detail managed for him, every care removed,
and all independence gone. If it suited the ministering angels to make a legal splash, he found
himself landed in the law courts. If they took it into their heads to seek another field, every
one assumed it a matter of course that their pastor would go too." It is because of this influence
that in certain quarters the ecclesiastical hierarchy are taking, year by year, a more feminine
position. It is not impossible that a church who worships Mary as the Mother of God may be
brought to recognize woman as the proper head of the church. True, as the writer quoted above
adds, "she must stoop to conquer heights like these." Yet the question has been seriously asked,
"Is not the Episcopal office admirably adapted to woman?" Between a priest and a nun there
is only the difference of a bonnet in their dress, and we know how easily woman can be persuaded
to go without a bonnet, or to exchange it for a hat such as is worn by men. In England, the
curate is sometimes called the first lady of the parish; and what he now is in theory, a century
hence may find him in fact. "It would be difficult, even now, to detect any difference of sex
in the triviality of purpose, the love of gossip, the petty interests, the feeble talk, the
ignorance, the vanity, the love of personal display, the white hand dangled over the pulpit,
the becoming vestment, and the embroidered stole, which we are learning gradually to look upon
as attributes of the British curate. So perfect, indeed, is the imitation, that the excellence
of her work may, perhaps, defeat its own purpose, and the lacquered imitation of woman may
satisfy the world, and for long ages prevent any anxious inquiry after the real feminine Brummagem."

The tendency thus truthfully described furnished the seedling out of which grew the Monasticism
of the past, and in which the Ritualism of the present finds its underlying cause. The Church
of Rome harnesses woman to her system, and compels her to contribute greatly to its prosperity.
In Europe the people tire of those great establishments and endowments, which rest like an
incubus on the national life. In America we are so blind that we foster them by grants from
our legislatures, by giving up the care of hospitals to their use, where the weak are subjected
to the influences of superstition, and the thoughtless are led astray. Another avenue to power
is opened by the ballot. Grant this to that church, which, through a fatherhood of priests
and a sisterhood of nuns, reaches every portion of the body politic, and the promise of Religious
Liberty and a Free Republic is at once exchanged for the despotism of Rome and the imperialism
of France. Infidelity joins hands with Rome in asking this power. Christianity, united with
patriotism, must refuse to grant the request. Güena is grain, and no manhood Largu pa.

In particular, I only know that there was very joyful waiting for my arrival.

Dábame the names of villages and the mountains when I was asked, without changing the graceful rhythm
of his journey and return in full face to me.

Also true that I looked at him straight when asked something, rather
than because he was wearing his attention to detail landscape and
the breeze carried away I was getting ingrown ears.

Complaining about it once and showing jealousy of rain after all.

-
No temelu - I said, raising as high as he could, the index of his
right hand after having put in the mouth -.

The air is cierzu, and fog to pull parriba espienza in picachus.

More intimidated when I knew I was called "Chisco", who was in my uncle's house many years before,
and that was from that town, but another below.

I admired, and so I told him, see him walking with a loose and discard shoes so heavy and so hard,
sounded in the slabs of the road as if hit with a mallet.

- Over here not spent more than otru in añu - I said jumping with the agility of a dancer above
a cut off jaral he was following a straight line -. And probes of us with nothing but soft on the
feet jogging along these suelus pa!

Stony was bewildered and could not be more that we were leaving behind, and promised not sample
more pleasant than we had before.

Fortunately, the retreat where the trail crawling was relatively open and frank, especially
on the left.
- Is this order - asked Chisco - all that we need to go?

- Jorrios!
- Answered the footman by almost a capers -. Yanu what it calls the
cuerpu! If it is a pure study room!

Good comfort to me that the kidneys
had already broken to ride by so many repeated ups and downs, and
began to feel in my spirit Madrid the overwhelming weight of mountains
and the nostalgia of the Puerta del Sol and the cobbled streets! It caused her to listen to the enemy of
her soul. Does it not become woman to ask herself, "Am I losing my hold on God? Is suspicion
that some good is being withheld, or does the desire to pry into the future, exercise an undue
influence upon my heart and imagination?" If so, your ruin has commenced, and a speedy return
to God is your only door of escape.

4. Deception was the result. Sight deceived, desire allured, and action born of a delusive
faith destroyed her happiness. The process of temptation culminated in deception. This is the
end ever kept in view by Satan. Every individual that refuses to be ruled absolutely by God,
in little or great affairs, may know of a truth that the end is deception, and the consequent
ruin is sure to follow. There is no exception to the rule. Many claim that error is not mischievous
while truth is left free to combat. Error poisons the mind, and so produces disease, and bars
out truth, which carries health to the mind and blesses the soul.

Eve knew the law, for she quotes it word by word. She deliberated as to obeying it. Here she
made her first mistake. A woman cannot do this. The moment a woman hesitates in regard to discharging
the duties she owes to herself or to God she falls. She seems to be provided with an almost
self-acting nature. It is natural for her to protect herself. She revolts against her higher
self when she hesitates. Her intuitions, allied to a sensitive nature, unite in defending against
evil. Had Eve said, "I do not need to sin to secure the development of my higher nature; the
Creator knows my wants much better than one who seeks to be my destroyer," she would have been
saved. Faith in God would have been a sure defence against the tempter's wiles.

But she deliberated, yielded, and fell, and the world is still full of the resounding echoes
of that fall. The race fell with her. That fact teaches its lesson. Some one falls with every
ruined soul. We lift up or drag down those associated with us. "For none of us liveth to himself,
and no man dieth to himself;" an influence goes out from us, which is a felt power in the world
either for or against God and humanity.

Consider the effects of the temptation. 1. It caused Eve to become to Adam an agent of Satan.
Tempted herself, she became a tempter. Ruined in her nature by this exclusion of God, and by
this welcome of Satan, she seeks to ruin her companion. This principle rules now. The carnal
heart is at enmity with God, the converted heart is in union with God. Here is a significant
fact. A man loves to have woman pure, if he is impure. Temperate, if he is intemperate. Holy
and Christian, if he is the opposite in every particular. Not so a woman. Intemperate herself,
she seeks to induce others to be like her. Here is the peril of society. If our fashionable
women love wine, they become emissaries of the wicked one to a fearful extent. It is almost
an impossibility for the tempted to withstand their wiles. In fashionable, perhaps, more than
in the other grades of life, woman as a leader in intemperance, in extravagance, and in opposition
to Christ, is to be feared. Her power is fearful to contemplate. The Secretary of the Treasury
declares that the national debt is increased, and threatens to increase, unless the fashionable
world shall declare against the, importation of that which costs gold, but which fails to contribute
to the prosperity of the community. This is by no means wholly chargeable to women. Men share
in the blame. A sadder fact is the expressed dissatisfaction with woman's work and with woman's
sphere. The home of the olden time is passing out of mind, and in its place is the fashionable
boarding-house. The skilled housewife is felt to be unappreciated. Men, they tell us, prefer
a pretty face to a noble heart, a delicate to a skilled hand, a girl who can play the piano
rather than one who can cook a dinner, a pretty doll instead of a glorious woman capable of
keeping the house, and of guiding the man with womanly strength. Ah, it is a mistake. America
is the land of homes. Our undeveloped territory offers to every man a farm. Men and women need
not to be cooped up in garrets or shut up in cellars, if they will but possess the spirit of
those who sought in this Western world a home, and who, as they toiled with the axe, the plough,
and the loom,

  "Shook the depths of the forest gloom
  With their hymns of lofty cheer."

The cause of this discontent is apparent. There is something in the commonplaces of fashionable
life which turns woman from the real to the unreal, from the substantial to the superficial,
which smothers all originality of thought, and makes her a simple reproduction in appearance,
if not in disposition, of the "Anonyma," with her meretricious beauty and dashing toilets.
Is it well for woman to subject herself to be criticised as follows? "The girl of the period
is a creature who dyes her hair and paints her face, whose sole idea of life is a plenty of
fun and luxury, and whose dress is the object of such thought and intellect as she possesses.
Her main endeavor is to outvie her neighbors. She cares little for advice or counsel. Nothing
is too extraordinary, and nothing too extravagant, for her vitiated taste; and things which
in themselves would be useful reforms if let alone, become monstrosities worse than those which
they have displaced, so soon as she begins to manipulate and improve. If a sensible fashion
lifts the gown out of the mud, she raises hers midway to the knee. If there is a reaction against
an excess of hair oil, and hair slimy and sticky with grease is thought less nice than if left
clean with a healthy crisp, she dries and frizzes and sticks hers out on end like certain savages
in Africa, or lets it wander down her back like Madge Wildfire's, and thinks herself all the
more beautiful the nearer she approaches in look to a maniac or a negress! What the demi-monde
does in its frantic efforts to excite attention, she also does in imitation. If some fashionable
courtesan is reported to have come out with her dress below her shoulder blades, and a gold
strap for all the sleeve thought necessary, the girl of the period follows suit next day, and
then wonders that men sometimes mistake her for her prototype, or that mothers of girls, not
so far gone as herself, refuse her as a companion for their daughters."

If the fashionable danseuse is imported from the brothels of Paris, and is brought to our cities
to exhibit herself to whoever is vulgar and lewd enough to desire to see her, thousands of
the fashionables go with opera glass, and tolerate a disgusting play that they may enjoy a
sight which is a guarantee to every young man that the woman knows little of and cares less
about the virtue which distinguished the girl of the olden time, before whom men bowed in admiration,
and concerning whom an impure thought seemed like an unpardonable sin. Women may say that "men
desire them to go, and they must gratify them." It is not true. Every man loves to have his
wife and daughters virtuous, and unless he be besotted by intemperance, or given over to courses
of shame, will quietly and joyfully yield to the remonstrance of a virtuous wife or daughter
against patronizing scenes which degrade, and against permitting the mind and heart to give
welcome to thoughts which pollute. True men desire to love, and to be influenced by pure, tender,
loving, retiring, and domestic women.

Woman, it is your fault if you do not retain the affections of a true and noble man. Alas,
how frequently young men mourn your fickleness, your frivolity, your fondness for show and
dress, and your total lack of desire for the more solid attainments which enrich character,
and beautify life. 

"In Madrid - thinking the Count - many people now lack in the summer, but Madrid has not been desert.
My girls - so he called them now - are a delicacy of beautiful: they are natural and inborn distinguished.
How is that they have friends or relatives among the people I deal? How is that, having so many
people in Madrid, Seville, or has been in Seville, my girls know anyone? In any house I have.
Why live so isolated? At the same Sevilla must have lived in greater isolation. "

Count inferred here that their unknown, although Seville, had lived away from the world or timid,
or too much poverty, or extravagance of her husband.

Then going from thought to action, leaving the speculative method and appealing to study and
investigation of the facts, the Count, who had good relations everywhere, was the chief of staff
of the Ministry of Finance and asked for the names of the most Recent employees in all those
units were. The list was long, because long time that there had been changes, renewal and transfer
of employees, but not missing an officer on staff who had some news
biographies of all new.

"Don Anacleto Perez 'he said, for example, the list .-- Where did
it come? - Wondering Count .-- De la Coruña - answered the officer
.-- Are you married? - .-- For you single out - replied Count.

So the officer was indicating various names, until he said: - Don Braulio Gonzalez .-- Where come?
- asked the Count .-- De Sevilla - said the officer .-- Are you married? - asked again Count .--
It is more than married - said the officer -: we can describe as a bigamist, because more his
wife, who is very pretty, has with him his sister, even prettier,
if possible, and fair as some candles .-- That is what I seek - said
the Count.

Then again recommended, since even before I had done the chief of staff, secrecy regarding
its investigation.

By the officer also knew the Count Don Braulio did no more than a month that was Madrid, which enjoyed
a salary of 3,000 pesetas, less discount, who had a reputation of excellent employee, that would
justify to work which the Minister entrusted to him, that he was a man of forty-five to fifty
years of age but looked older, because it was rather bald and very sickly, and that only took
three years of marriage had no children; his wife, Dona Beatriz, and his wife's sister, named
Ines, were a place the province of Cordoba, where he had been Manager of Revenue, that shortly
after wedding had been moved to Seville to rise, which in Seville he and his family had lived
far removed from the treatment of people, who now lived on Olive
Street in third floor of a house whose number is also given, and they
were all so ferrets, barely were treated in Madrid with a living soul.

Count heard all, returned to his thoughts and calculations.

Had taken the first step; but it was necessary to take the second. I already knew who was dealing
with, but that's nothing served if he failed to communicate wisely with Don Braulio and his family.

The
Count was far from being a reckless infinity. While She did not draw
any danger, if it did not hurt having to risk the skin, always feared
a coup in vague, do some anything that might put you in awkward and
ridiculous situation. A man in sweet communion
with God is girded with strength and endurance, with recuperative energies, of which a man
is ignorant when he is alienated from God, and exposed to wrath. And there is no creature that
is not manifest in his sight; but all things are naked and opened to the eyes of Him with whom
we have to do." The Lord God was abroad. They hid themselves. They were afraid. Ah, there is
a nakedness which the culprit feels, which cannot be covered up. God's eye pierces through
every form of concealment, and lays bare the cause of ruin and the deed of shame. It is impossible
to hide from God. If this world is deceived by our disguises, and pasteboard faces, and long
robes, the Being with whom we have to do shall laugh at our calamities and mock when our fear
cometh, as we shall stand out in our true characters, and shall be judged for the deeds done
in the body, whether they be good or evil.

3. Sin not only changed their relations to each other, awakening their animal nature and killing
their spiritual hope of sweet communion with God, but it changed their relations towards God.
They became aliens to him. They lost their love, and were tortured by fear. They feared him
whom they once loved. "And Jehovah God called to the man, and said to him, Where art thou?
And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and was afraid because I was naked, and hid myself.
And he said, Who has showed thee that thou art naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree which I commanded
thee not to eat? And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of
the tree, and I ate." Critics and moralists have raised a crusade
against the buffs. But the buffs will prevail, despite all the lectures moral fulminate against them.
Same thing will happen to the bulls. You can even argue that the buffs are more invincible.
The reasons adduced against them are infinitely less justified.

Sublime spectacle, no doubt, is to see a handsome boy, with no defense or floating shield red veil,
wearing silk, dressed to party or dance that fierce and terrible struggle, stand in front of angry
and powerful beast, calling himself and kill him early, falling on it with the sharp steel.
If, unfortunately, regardless of the bullfighter who at that moment died, his death, if not
moral, will not some beautiful, and pity and terror who causes the beauty will be purified
according to the rules of tragedy, written by the great Greek philosopher. The downside is that to
reach this moment of death we to witness before the brutal, long and harsh punishment of the
noble animal destined to die, we to do your skin riddled with spikes and hooks, which are hanging,
if they are not torn túrdigas with the skin, and we must also address the foul cruelty that are
treated the unhappy nags. They provide a fun and rattling seizures the agony on the sand shed
their blood and guts, are pressed to walk the caul and the loose bowels, and walk, however, by
dint of espolazos the chopper and under shaking the sticks in their emaciated backs a fierce
porter, who ignoble and grotesquely giving is behind this beating, in order to increase the pain
and take a rest from pain momentum and energy in a being moribund, if not thought, and nerves feel
like us. With such scenes should not be so hard heart that piety is not moved, or subject of
artistic taste and elegance of manners some who do not repugnant so rude and villains, or
bronze stomach did not feel the full effects of dizziness.

In short: the bull's death is beautiful, if the killer is no more
overshoot and give two or three lunges, but frankly (I mean honestly,
I am not fond sentimentality or reciter) above is abominable anywhere
you look.

Again, despite all the bulls continue.

Ourselves we dare not ask be lifted, because there is in them something of poetic and national,
to please ourselves. We will be content with some changes, if possible. We almost die happy if no horses
of such a disastrous and ugly death.

As for the buffs, which, as stated, are today more enemies than the bulls, or reform or anything
we ask. We seem fine as they are. Most do not understand the cause of censorship of them is
made.

First, the buffs are buffs, and are not the sermon or the Jubilee. The mother who yearns preserve
the treasure of candor that is in the soul of his daughter, and to accrue, take any of the
many churches that contains Madrid, and not take to hear the operettas. Go only for buffs, if
they are ill, men cured of fear, and those women not missing, tanned and in every kind of mischief,
or they are so innocent, that if any evil come to hear, not understand.

"

Moreover, I venture to assert that in the most shameless comic zarzuela there is no fifth of the
spring or green jokes in many comedies of Tirso, that many sketches
of Don Ramón de la Cruz and many other dramatic productions of our
great classical theater.

The main reason for the censure of the buffs come from an interesting hobby, from few years ago,
has seized more judgmental minds. The buffs came Paris, in the buffs often danced the cancan, the
buffs like in France, France has been defeated by Germany in the last war, then the buffs,
enervated and corrupting the nation, have taken the blame for the defeat. This has been said and in
all shades, and on this profound dissertations have been written. No one, however, has it occurred
to state that in Germany the buffs like them even more than in France than in Germany pirra
men for cancer, and that those who have beaten the French did not
come out with a discipline-spanking, but to watch the cancan dance
or dance when the beat.

As for the buffs to corrupt corrupt or pull literary taste even more unfounded accusation. Why,
do music, good or bad, is incompatible with the discretion with common sense, to wit, grace
urban and other requirements and qualities that is or could be trimmed a dramatic story? If
any dramatic fable, of these light or farcical merry, no such pledges, cúlpese uniquely the
author and his work, and not all gender and all the authors. Are you over the audience whistling?
And if public does not whistle, but the cheers, and the zarzuela
is silly, this will prove the goodness of public.

Give her something less silly and applaud more.

And when not given something less silly, critics believe that is because there is no less silly.
If it had, it would.

What you just said seems a truism, but Ponder well and it will not is. The author of operettas is
always a playwright. If you write bad operettas, dramas worst written. The critic's speech condemning the
zarzuela, stripped of fussy, is this: "You are stupid and vulgar
zarzuela: write dramas and operettas not write."

To which modestly the author could answer: "If writing operettas, which are easier and have
fewer claims, I do bad, what will I do if I start writing plays? "

The zarzuela also is one thing, and another is a good drama or a good
comedy, and not objects which are written zarzuelas to come to light
new and whales to write Lopes magnificent dramas.

I think I'm going too far with my digression. Returning to the issue I address here.

I said that in summer, although Madrid are the most elegant, Madrid is quite lively and fun.

The center of the animation, the main charm of Madrid in the summer, is in the Gardens Buen Retiro,
from 9:00 to 12:00.

The story we will refer began there, just four years ago today, on August 9, 1873.

II

It was big night for entry. There were almost all young journalists, employees and poets; corny
much is in Madrid, that is, all the ladies and girls of very little money aspire to be noticed
or known in good society, or say to yourself in the company more money, no matter how bad, and
many honorable families of the middle class, no other aspirations
than to suck the fresh air and a bit distracted listening to the music,
the quiff or courtesans of all grades and categories, so to have met
with holders of a quarter when entering, many notable politicians
of the fifteen or twenty parties in Spain, a hundred generals, not
a few congressmen, senators and ministers, and, Finally, that part
of the beau monde had not yet come for the summer, promising to leave,
or that he was so sure of your credit wealthy, who feared going to
compromise on Madrid one summer.

All this public, or sat on benches and chairs, forming a circle, muttering,
politicking, flirting and falling in love, or revolved around the
kiosk, where the music played, giving round and round, even treacherous
comparison, as mules wheel.

The garden, as everyone knows, is very nice, and at night, gas-lit evenings balloon-white and
opaque glass, looks older.

That lends itself to the tree lighting and the green grass and flowers somewhat vague and
beauty. The hustle and bustle give pleasure to the upper.

Women, when not blinded by vanity or the itch to excel, are usually well-dressed. In twenty
one can say that, at best, and not much is usually entrusted the
devil for the eye and comb, where it appears in the Gardens made a
hag; but the other nineteen are as God intended, a blanket, hat other,
not few are very pretty, either way it carried.

All that, in general, could censor that night, and may even criticized in the suit women, is
along the lines. To walk to the Gardens, and although they go in car, to walk after walk, is
all that ugly and dirty white petticoat attachment dress that drags, gathering dust, lifting
and spreading in the air, and sweeping, finally, how much filth is the step. The queue is not
good but for clean walk on soft carpets, marble or burnished, lustrous, precious or and polished
wood, embedded in the form of elaborate mosaic. To walk the streets or the field, where there
is usually mud and who knows what worse, a woman of taste must without
the tail.

Some, but are less, do without now.

At night we are referring to was declaiming against the tails a little gentleman, as twenty-eight
years, newly arrived from Germany and France, and the most elegant,
bold and cheerful can imagine.

Rodeábanle, and involuntarily admired him and thank him were laughing, others five young men from
the most prim and haughty in Madrid.

Our orator had come so late is for a home business. Planned to spend in Madrid three or four
weeks at most and go to Biarritz in September.

He had the reputation of a skull, but not the skulls and exploited
victims nor executioners and operators.

Although generous, used to lend to those who call themselves friends and had taken borrowed
from loan sharks, and he knew contained when I played and lost, and
not let anyone loot their managers, and carried in memory all their
properties, income and products, and watched for everything, and when
I was with your account and reason, and without ever blinded by vanity
or affection.

This gentleman had more than 15,000 dollars a year, was unmarried, Andalusian, did not have a single
debt, and bore the title of Count of Alhedín the Alto.

I had never wanted to study or continue any race. It was, however, curious and clear; I had
read many novels and popular and entertaining of all kinds of wisdom: and with this, and the treatment
of the world, and travel for the best in Europe, had come to have a spirit quite cultivated and
understood everything, though briefly.

He hated politics. To hate newspapers. I never took one in hand but to read ads. Contemporary
public events teased him and would not learn them. Poetry was a thousand times more ancient
stories that modern, and interested falling more than Sardanapalus
Napoleon III, and the fabulous achievements of Osiris those of the
first Napoleon.

He had not wanted to decide himself whether it was realistic or Republican,
liberal or illiberal supporter of this Constitution or that.

In religion and philosophy was less lazy, but if politics was irrelevant in this another was uncertain.
In that, it mattered little if not resolved, in this, in spite of himself, not resolved. 

Moreover,
as I do with the practicality of his life and his conduct, Count Alhedín had a philosophy
of self, a particular doctrine, a collection of principles which served as a guide and standard
for behavior.

Réstame say that this hero, I put in the field, was of medium height, graceful, strong and agile.
Pulling the foil as few, and with a gun in his hand almost no one is ahead. Great rider and
a good hunter, he had never boasted of a bullfighter. What we did have a hobby, for two or three
years of his earliest youth, was to imitate Leotard, and with such success, flying through the
air, in the combined traps, like a witch. It was not without however, but a nice guy, dark, beautiful
eyes, dark-haired and twisted whiskers shiny and well groomed beard.

Having lectured against queues reported a series of anecdotes that occurred to him or to someone
you know, in foreign lands where it came from.

Some of these stories were hunting or riding, the most were of love, finding means of disseminating
their triumphs and conquests, who pretended to believe or believed
their partners, or rather, his audience Count it was of those who,
whether they speak beautifully, fatigue and offend the least suffered,
monopolizing the use of the word and not consenting, as they say,
that no goal but they trick or spoon.

Despite this monopoly is not to deny that the Count was funny in conversation. Speaking, loved
or dazzled.

Recounted how few, and with such art, which he believed history, although it was a lie, and
the audience used to believe it too.

It seems that the imagination and memory were in Count one and only faculty of the soul.

He was petulant, but smugly cute, cheerful and sweet, no one offended. Its fine Figure nice manners
and did much to produce such good effect.

That night they had taken to denigrate everything.

Reminding the Russian princess, the ladies English to German Countess, the French du Faubourg
Saint-Germain, and even the Phanariotes Greek, which was treated with the utmost privacy, it
was not worth holding a damn all women who were walking at that time in the outfield.

"Just - he said - if this whole miserable crowd can cull half dozen warrant a declaration of
love. "

Friends challenged as cruel censorship, and the Count, to defend himself,
holding his opinion grace and naturalness.

As was well disputed and
walking, he suddenly noticed that he walked in front of two women
two tiny, slim, young people apparently, but only from behind the
saw, and something had heard and continued to hear of his diatribe
and dispute, because occasionally whispering and laughed, as if their
comments to the conversation of those who came back.

Conde had not
seen the face of any of those two women. The costume of them all eye
was remarkably vulgar and profane. The one dressed in black silk light
and the other a dark suit of calico poor, the two were on their blanket.
There was, however, such neatness and toilet in the whole being and
even the environment that surrounded and enveloped those women that,
without managing the explanation, the Count seemed to feel like a
magnetic current, and got to imagine that these two women were challenging
his assertion, and that any of them considered, with good reason,
an argument alive, very strong and irresistible, against their foolish
statements.

It is not alone by an excess of passion or of beauty that woman becomes a tempter. The absence
of love, and of beauty, sins of omission as well as sins of commission, are sources of temptation.
Man desires an educated woman. Intellectually and spiritually she must be able to meet his
wants, and render help, or she is a failure. He tires of a useless toy or plaything, and cries
out for a helpmeet. Another has said, "The bad housekeeping, and the neglect of domestic duties,
on the part of many wives, is, no doubt, attributable to the slovenly tenements, and inadequate
providings, and careless neglect of the husbands. But more husbands, we fear, are driven to
shiftlessness and discouragement--driven to the saloon and gambling-room--by the extravagance
or inefficiency, the disorderly arrangements or badly prepared food, the irritating complaints
or exacting demands of those who preside in the home. None but a man of low instinct, of base
passion, of weak character, will turn away from and neglect a home where order reigns, where
a cheerful smile, well-prepared food, neatly arranged table await him; where a word of cheer
greets him, and where patient forbearance is exercised, even with his irregularities and faults.
It is the part of woman to win; and her winning arts should not be laid aside when she grasps
what she has considered a prize. She should seek in every way to win, beyond the possibility
of loss, the abiding love, the unwavering confidence, the undoubting respect of her husband.
If woman would be man's equal, she must challenge the equality by proving herself mistress
of those arts that minister the highest comfort to his physical nature, as well as to his affections,
that further his interests as well as his happiness."

Alas! how many fail here because they know not how to make a home pleasant. Such are the slaves
of servants and the creatures of circumstances. In some cases the fault is man's, in others
it is woman's. Perhaps in all cases both are somewhat at fault; yet the responsibility rests
on woman to make home a delight. When she fails she must take the consequences. Failure with
her is often a mistake. She knows no better. Ignorance, in some, is wilful, but in more it
is educational. Their mothers, through ill-judged kindness, mistaken notions of life, or careless
neglect, suffered them to grow up without the necessary practical training; or else they failed
before them; and inefficiency and slatternliness, bad cooking, and worse manners, are the patrimony
bequeathed in perpetuity to the daughters. Happy is the man who has a wife capable of getting
a better meal than the hired help, and whose smile is the light of his dwelling! Sometimes
a girl knows how to win, but cares not to keep. She gives place in her heart, and a welcome
in her home, to others more readily than to the one she has given her plighted troth. This
is criminal. A woman who does it is a suicide. She is bent on ruin, and will find the pit ere long.

Consider her wiles of speech. Mystery here brings ruin to man as it brought ruin to woman.
Young ladies of culture and of refinement are not ashamed to employ the language of the Parisian
to lead astray the companion of her life. God curse the language and the forms of speech whose
words drop with the very gall of death, which revel in elegant dress as near the edge of indecency
as is possible without treading over the boundary! Her wiles of speech are bad, but her wiles
of love are the most perilous of all. Man needs love. He is fond of it. It is his joy, come
from whence it may. Love is the mind's light and heat. A mind of the greatest stature, without
love, is like a huge pyramid of Egypt--chill and cheerless in all its dark halls and passages.
A mind with love, is as a king's palace lighted for a royal festival. Shame that the sweetest
of all the mind's attributes should be suborned to sin. Think of it! each wile, rightly used,
is a power given to woman to make her man's helpmeet, and wrongly used will make her man's
destroyer.

Some one asked a minister for his conception of the personal appearance of the devil. His reply
was, "A false-hearted and well-dressed gentleman, or a vain and fashionable woman." Woman was
Satan's first ally, though he worked in ambush, and approached man in concealment. In the wisdom
of his choice we discover the peril of woman. It may be well briefly to review the public manner
in which Satan employs her talent for the ruin of man and in opposing the rule of Christ.

1. Passing over her social power, and without referring to her wiles of speech, of dress, of
flattery, and of love, think of her in the arena of politics, joining her forces to infidelity,
and with the disbelievers of the Bible, to obtain for woman a place for which she is not fitted,
and which will destroy her peace, injure and undermine her influence in the home, and cause
her to neglect wifehood and motherhood, to turn from the interior world of a quiet home, to
the outside world of conflict and strife. It is the boast of a writer in favor of "Woman's
Rights," that "among the disbelievers of revealed religion, I have not found, during a life
of half a century, a single opponent to the doctrine of equal rights for males and females."
The correctness of this statement is to a wonderful extent true. The believers of the Bible
claim that the teachings and commands of the Word of God are in opposition to the doctrine.
When woman joins the ranks of the infidel, she turns from God, and loses her power in her former
sphere.

2. If there is one foe more than another, that threatens us as a nation, nearly all agree in
pronouncing that foe to be Romanism. Take this fact in connection with the obvious truth, that
it is fashionable to pander to Rome. Because of this tendency ripening into results, the State
of New York, politically, is lost to Protestantism, and is as much Roman Catholic as is Italy
or Rome. Whence comes this influence, or producing cause? Can we trace it to woman? It will
be admitted that the influence of Roman Catholic servants in our homes has never been measured.
The nurse teaches the child the use of the beads, and familiarizes the child, committed to
her keeping, to the cross, as an emblem of worship. Imagine the alarm of a Christian mother,
when, because of the absence of the nurse it became a necessity to see the child to bed, when,
to her surprise, the little girl of five years pulled out from beneath the pillow her beads
and cross, and began going through the Papal forms of worship! The mother wisely forbore a
rebuke, changed her nurse, and led her child back to Christ, and so rescued her. How many children
are finding in their nurses, rather than in their mothers, their religious teachers? The influence
of Romish servants in our homes is felt in still another way. Because of them there is a barrier
to discussion, or even to conversation, concerning this monstrous error, which, like the frogs
of Egypt, invades our very bread-troughs. No man dare express his mind concerning Romanism
at his table if the servant is a Romanist, lest he lose the services so much in demand, or
lest he be reported to the priest, and so be placed under the ban or the displeasure of the
Church of Rome, which is used as an engine of political and social power against the truth
as it is in Jesus.

3. The influence of education deserves consideration. Fashionable women send their daughters
to Roman Catholic institutions of learning, where the Sister or Mother Superior carries her
to the chapel, bows reverently before the altar, and kissing the cross, exclaims, "How can
Protestants be so blind as to reject the cross on the ground that it savors of Popery, when
they know that all their own hopes of salvation must hang upon it?" or where the morning service
concludes with a prayer to the "Mother of God," in these words: "Most holy Virgin, I believe
and confess thy most holy and immaculate care of man, pure and without stain. O most pure Virgin,
through thy virginal purity, thy immaculate conception, thy glorious quality of Mother of God,
obtain for me of thy dear Son, humility, charity, great purity of heart, of body and of mind,
holy perseverance in my cherished relations, the gift of prayer, a holy life and a happy death."[A]
Thus is the dogma of the Immaculate Conception thrust upon the memory, and the gate is opened
to a denial and rejection of Christ as the Saviour, and to an acceptance of Mary as the Intercessor.
The result manifests itself in two ways. The fashionable boarding-school girl comes to think
kindly of Rome, and rebukes all opposition to the church as bigotry or ignorance on the part
of those with whom she associates. The influence is noticeable. It is fashionable to attend
the Papal Church, fashionable to contribute to its prosperity, fashionable for men to smother
their opinions, fashionable for the politician to seek the favor of that power that furnishes,
in its subtlety and in its power to work in darkness, a perfect mechanism for Satan.

[Footnote A: Miss Bunkley's Book, pp. 22 and 68.]

4. Our wealthy women, by their patronage of Roman Catholic fairs, and by their gifts to the
so-called charitable fund, enable the enemies of the cross of Christ to build these magnificent
cathedrals and religious establishments, while the churches of Christ languish for support.

Give to woman the ballot, let these girls in our kitchens become voters, and it will not be
difficult to understand how "a man's foes shall be those of his own household."

The Remedy. Induce Protestant girls to work, by treating them as sisters rather than as servants.
Talk free in the house and at the table against Romanism, let the consequences be what they
may. Educate children so that they shall know the characteristics of this lifelong foe of the
church of Christ; and, lastly, resist this movement to change the order of God's government
in the home and in the state.

Ignore it as we may, the beguiling serpent is busy with our Eve in America, this Eden of liberty,
and God only knows the result. It is a question which cannot be trifled with. That the drift
to-day is against the teachings of the Bible, none can doubt. Victory for Satan is a terrible
calamity for humanity. Let us then, as an antidote, preach Christ, and strive to make woman
the helpmeet of man and the ally of our Divine Master, and then she becomes the deadliest foe
of Satan, and the most aggressive champion of the truth.

THE GLORY OF MOTHERHOOD.

To understand the tragedies of the present, it is essential that we re-read the tragedies of
the past. Too many, in forming their opinions of what should be, ignore in their calculations
what has been, and what must be. Those who are dissatisfied with the position assigned to woman,
must recall the fact that God's decrees are unchangeable. We may resist them, but we cannot
destroy them. They were in existence, before our birth; they will survive our dissolution.
It is for us to recognize God as Ruler as well as Creator, and adjust our views, our lives,
and our labors in accordance with an infinitely wise system, formed in the counsels of an eternity
past, and running on to the eternity of the future.

If we speak of Woman as God Made Her, of Woman as a Helpmeet, we find a warrant for it in the
Word of God. In Eden she was God's ally. When she fell, she became, in sin, the ally of Satan.
The truth may be unpalatable, but it is the truth.

In considering woman as a mother, we stand on the hill-top of the past. Before us lies a valley,
stretching on from the ruin wrought in Eden by sin, to the restoration wrought in the world
by Christ. During these ages of wickedness, of sorrow, and of crime, woman felt the curse heavy
upon her. Thus there came to woman, who had the first encounter with the wily enemy of the
race, the hope of a triumph over, and a subjugation of this enemy, through her offspring. It
is an instinct of a boy to crush the head of a snake; but you cannot readily get a girl to
do so: she will run from the beast so identified with her sorrow. The reason for this is explained
in the prophecy of Eden. In a mystical sense, Christ, the deliverer foretold in Genesis, the
eminent seed of the woman, was to bruise the head of the "old serpent, the devil," that is,
destroy him, and all his principalities and powers, break and confound all his schemes and
ruin all his works, crush his whole empire, strip him of his sovereignty and authority, of
his power over death, and his tyranny over the bodies and souls of men. Here, then, was a purpose
worth living for and suffering for. True, Satan, or the serpent, is to bruise his heel, or
wound his human nature; but there is no promise of his triumph.

It is not difficult to discover how this hope must have thrilled the heart of Eve with joy.
Her life was not to be a failure. Though clouds might rest upon her, it was impossible to shut
out the fact that the star of hope was soon to rise, and to usher in the dawn of a glorious day.

Much has been written against the fact that a daughter is not prized in a home as much as is
a son. We can understand it, when we go back to Eden and see that the seed of the woman, called
"a he," a male child, was to be the instrument of working out the disinthralment of the race.
The feminine gender is sometimes used in declaring the glories of the future. Zion is called
a bride, but her glory is all reflected from the bridegroom. Woman is a helpmeet, but the king-bearer
is the man Christ Jesus. The world turned from Christ because he had the appearance of a man.
It was a great mistake. It is not a popular saying,--women say it is not complimentary to them
to declare it,--yet it remains true, that "God draws by the cords of a man." All along the
past men have been recognized as the gift of God. Women rejoice when a man is born into the
world; not that women are disliked, but because there is something involved in life more than
mere existence. There are faint foreshadowings of the tasks laid on the race. Work is to be
done for God and man. Principalities and powers are to be fought and overcome. An invisible
world is in league against the race, and an invisible God, once robed in flesh, and living
among men, is Our Advocate with God, our Redeemer and Saviour. There is significance in the
language, "I have gotten a man from the Lord." The language of Eve, as a mother, furnishes
the key-note to that maternal song which yet floats through the world, which makes women in
China, in India, in Africa, and in South America, among the inhabitants of Russia, and of Paraguay,
anywhere and everywhere, rejoice with the same old joy, when a man is born into the world,
because then she feels that somehow she has given birth to a hero and a champion who shall
be identified with that song of world-triumph which is yet to cover the earth as the waters
cover the sea; and the only exception to this is found among the Hebrews, where a virgin was
revered as the possible mother of the Messiah, and so received her dignity as a reflection
from the man. To understand this problem of human nature, we must go back to God, and study
his word. Those who reject the Word, of God are surrounded by mysteries which they cannot solve.
They behold tendencies, and instincts, and dispositions, which are explained in Genesis, and
which are parts of God's prophesies yet to be fulfilled in this world. Ignoring the prophecy,
they cannot comprehend the facts of existence, which must exist and will exist, whether men
will hear or forbear.

Says a writer of some note, "The severe Nation which taught that the happiness of the race
was forfeited through the fault of a woman, showed its thought of what sort of regard man viewed
her, by making him accuse her in the first question to his God,--who gave her to the patriarch
as a handmaid, and by the Mosaical law bound her to allegiance like a serf,--even they greeted,
with a solemn rapture, all great and holy-women as heroines, prophetesses, judges in Israel;
and if they made Eve listen to the serpent, gave Mary as a bride to the Holy Spirit. In other
nations it has been the same down to our day." In this extract, the Jewish nation and the Bible
are referred to in the same tone that we refer to Mahommedans and to the Koran. Is not this
tendency perceptible elsewhere? In looking at woman, we ignore the Bible, and God, and history,
and talk of her as though the past had no influence with the present and future. The Bible,
God, and history have to do with the present and the future, and whoever studies history has
been compelled to recognize the truth. This same writer was compelled to declare, "It is the
destiny of man, in the course of the ages, to ascertain and fulfil the law of his being, so
that his life shall be seen, as a whole, to be that of an angel or messenger." This is his
destiny, because it is God-given. Hence man was the bearer of good tidings all along the past.
Prophets were generally men. Christ was a man. The apostles, Christ's chosen standard-bearers,
were men. The powers in the moral and spiritual world are men. All that is great in history,
all that thrones one nation upon a mountain height and buries another in the fathomless grave
of infamy, comes from man. The ages were dark, because of the lack of a man. Christ came, and
the apostolic age became the noontime of the world, not because of what the race did for themselves,
but because of what was done for the race. If a nation sinks, because the man who has the brain,
the wisdom, the power from God, is wanting, who shall build up a people in hope, inspire them
with grand resolves? It will rise and prosper when the man comes. Christ was a necessity, because
infinite work was to be performed. Is he not a necessity now? Is it not a man in Christ, and
with Christ, who is ever the worker on the earth? Christ speaks through the gospel, and "the
key" of the moral universe is still upon his shoulders. This hope and dream came to Eve way
back there in the confines of the wilderness, and so incidentally as well as actually, she
became identified with it, and rejoiced when she could declare, "I have gotten a man from the
Lord," whom she believed to be the "promised seed."

Notice, to Eve, as to woman now, a baby was more than a little child; she saw in him all the
possibilities of a man, who was to become a foe worthy to meet the enemy of her soul. Her faith
in this child to be born was similar to our faith in the Child that was born in Bethlehem.
Hence her joy when she exclaimed, "I have gotten a man from the Lord."

It will seem to many as singular that there should be no mention of the daughters born of Eve.
The generations or names of men are given, but not of the daughters. Even there and then the
custom now prevalent in the East found its origin. No account is made of the birth of a daughter
in that land. Congratulate a man upon the accession to the family of a daughter, and the father
will hide his shame with difficulty, and exclaim, "O, that God had given me a son!"

Again, in reading this story some will be surprised to find no mention made of the mother's
grief when her youngest child was slain, and that no mention is made of the mother's death.
We know that after Seth was born, Adam lived eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters;
but woman's curse bore fruit. Men ruled over her, and her individuality was lost in the headship
of Adam. Do not blame me for saying it; I simply declare the fact. This state of things continued
until Christ came. When Mary gave birth to Jesus, woman resumed her place. The curse was met
by its antidote. From God came the wave of influence which met the wave that flowed out from
Eden, the conflict began, higher and higher rose the flood, until the ark of hope by it was
placed on the mountain peak of human history, in sight of all races, and tribes, and peoples
of the whole world. Calvary is set over against Ararat, as Mary is set over against Eve. After
the birth-song of Eden came the tragedy, in which Abel lost his life and Cain his character.
After the birth-song of Bethlehem came the tragedy of Calvary, in which Christ gave up his
life, that he might open to man, enveloped in the ruins of the fall, a way back to the Eden
in reserve for the redeemed.

In speaking of Eve as a mother, there is little that can be said founded on fact. It is certainly
significant, that Eve, through whom sin came, should pass out of the world's mind, and Mary,
through whom Christ came, should vault to a seat in the affections of a world? Is it not also
significant that Mary should become an object of worship to many millions of people in this
and in other lands, and that Satan, through Mariolatry, should strive to do in the New Dispensation
what he wrought by Idolatry in the Old? The opposition of Satan runs on. The purposes of God
run on. The prophesies of the Word of God abide, and are sure of fulfilment, in spite of Satan.
Against prophecy combinations of men and nations have united; but the truths sweep on resistlessly,
and reach the destination for which God ordained them.

The curse that came to woman in the hour of her fall rested on her until Christ came. "Unto
thy husband shall be thy desire,"--an expression of subordination and dependence. "He shall
rule over thee," expresses the general effect of the apostasy on woman's relations in the married
state. The stronger party in this relation, instead of being the guardian and protector of
the weaker, did use his superior power to oppress and debase her. Such has always been the
case, except so far as the influence of revelation has counteracted the evils of the fall,
such is the case to-day. Woman owes her recognition to Christ, and she is indebted for her
position in the civilized portions of the world wholly to the gospel. Wherever Christ is not
worshipped woman is despised.

Woman as a mother, under the Old Dispensation, differs in many important respects from woman
as a mother under the New. The history of woman is divided into three portions: 1. Woman as
God made her; 2. Woman as Sin made her; 3. Woman as Christ made her.

1. The position of woman, between her humiliation in Eden and her restoration in Bethlehem,
was in many respects sad to contemplate. She was more of a slave than an equal. Eve passes,
unrecognized and unnamed, to her grave. Sarah, the wife of Abram, finds mention, and is described
in such a manner that you behold her sharing her husband's love, though the picture of her
in the home is not a pleasant one. We can hardly understand how Abram could have suffered her
to enter the house of Abimelech, nor how she could have taken Hagar to her husband, and thus
again have led man astray--the man whom God called to be the Father of the Faithful. Eve, the
mother of the race, tempted Adam, and Sarah, the mother of the patriarchs, tempted Abram; and
lack of faith in God was the cause of their ruin, and consequent humiliation. There is something
sad about the manner of her life. Her home was a simple tent, surrounded by flocks and herds,
and crowded with rubbish of every description. Woman in the East is very much to-day what Adam
saw her on his first entrance into the wilderness. The effects of sin followed her from generation
to generation. The gloom of the night is still over her as she spends her days in out-door
labor. She weeds the cotton, and assists in pruning the vine and gathering the grapes. She
goes forth in the morning, bearing not only her implements of husbandry, but also her babes
in the cradle; and returning in the evening, she prepares her husband's supper and sets it
before him, but never thinks of eating of it until after he is done. One of the early objections
the Nestorians made to the Female Seminary was, that it would disqualify their daughters for
their accustomed toil. In after years woman might be seen carrying her Spelling-book to the
field along with her Persian hoe, little dreaming that she was thus taking the first step towards
the substitution of the new implement for the old.

Nestorian parents used to consider the birth of a daughter a great calamity. When asked the
number of their children, they would count up their sons, and make no mention of their daughters.
The birth of a son was an occasion for great joy and giving of gifts. Neighbors hastened to
congratulate the happy father, but days might elapse before the neighborhood knew of the birth
of a daughter. It was deemed highly improper to inquire after the health of a wife, and the
nearest approach to it was to ask after the house or household. Formerly a man never called
his wife by name, but in speaking of her would say the mother of "so and so," giving the name
of the child; or the daughter of "so and so," giving the name of her father; or simply that
woman did this or that. Nor did the wife presume to call her husband's name, or to address
him in the presence of his parents, who, it will be borne in mind, lived in the same apartment.
They were married very young, often at the age of fourteen, and without any consultation of
their own preference, either as to time or person.

There was hardly a man among the Nestorians who did not beat his wife when the missionaries
commenced their labors. The women expected to be beaten, and took it as a matter of course.
When the men wished to talk together of anything important, they usually sent the women out
of doors or to the stable, as unable to understand or unfit to be trusted. In some cases, says
the author of "Woman and Her Saviour," this might be a necessary precaution; for the absence
of true affection, and the frequency of domestic broils, rendered the wife an unsafe depositary
of any important family affair.[A]

[Footnote A: Woman and her Saviour, pp. 18 and 19.]

In Paraguay a female child is described by Southey as lamenting, in heart-breaking tones, that
her mother did not kill her when she was born; and Sir A. Mackenzie declares that there is
a class of women in the north who performed this pious duty towards female infants, whenever
they had an opportunity. But wherever Christ is known and loved, the daughter is a gift of
God as well as a son. Woman owes to her Saviour all she has of joy in time, as well as all
she has of hope in eternity. Though she does not obtain the headship, though her sorrow and
her pain are not removed, though her desire continues to be to her husband, and though the
rule of the husband continues in every well-regulated home, yet woman is elevated to become
a shareholder of the pleasures of the home, of the honors and emoluments of life, of the riches
obtained by toil, and of the enjoyments derived from culture. Woman in the Christian home is
the soul, the pride, the ornament, and the helper. Through Christ she obtains a recognition,
so that when we speak of man we mean the race, men and women, for these become the two halves
of one thought, so that no especial stress is laid on the welfare of either, but the development
of one is secured by the development of the other. To such an extent have the disabilities
been removed from the sex, that a leading writer has been compelled to admit, that "in our
own country, women are, in many respects, better situated than the men. Good books are allowed,
with more time to read them. They are not so early forced into the bustle of life, nor so weighed
down by demands for outward success. They have time to think, and no traditions chain them,
and few conventionalities, compared with what must be met in other nations. Doors swing open
to them, and they are invited to walk the fields of literary and artistic success, and whatever
tends to the development of their higher nature is freely placed within their reach."

2. The trials of motherhood deserve notice. We have seen the hopes that came to Eve, and beheld
their realization in and through Christ. The trials were born of sin. Eve's eldest child, Cain,
possessed a narrow, selfish nature. He was a tiller of the ground. Abel was a keeper of the
sheep. The first born met this curse in the soil. The second born looked forward to the restoration.
In process of time Cain brought of the fruit of the ground. Tradition has it that he brought
what was left of his food, of light and tempting things, flax or hemp seed.

Abel brought of the firstlings of his flock, which was a proper type of Christ. His offering
pleased God, Cain's niggardly gift displeased God. The selfish man wreaked his vengeance in
the usual way. He slew his brother, who was better than himself. The heavens are black with
gathering gloom. Murder is in the air. The shock is felt everywhere. God comes, and sternly
asks, "Where is thy brother?" Cain impudently replies, "Am I my brother's keeper?" Then comes
the curse. It is a self-invited curse, for the gift he gave to God is the harvest in future
for himself. Ah, what a lesson. How early it is taught. If you hate God, if you regret what
you give, if you make it small, if you see to it that you give the leavings rather than the
firstlings, then beware. Cain said his punishment was greater than he could bear. He is getting
back what he gave. The command is, Give, and it shall be given back. The converse is true--Keep,
and it shall be kept back.

The hopes of Eve were centred in the victory to be achieved over the enemy of her life, by
means of the triumph to be won by her children. Her trials really began when she saw that sin
was not an accident. It was rebellion which bore fruit. Her treachery to God came back to her
in this treachery of her first born to her second child, whom she loved with maternal tenderness.
Thus the gates of evil were thrown open, and they filled the land with violence, and the flood
became a necessity.

What was true of Eve was more or less true of woman until Christ came. She inherited sorrow,
and was born to a life of humiliation and wretchedness. The history of woman in the olden time
and at this hour, wherever Christ is not known, is full of sorrow. In Christ she finds an emancipator
from sorrow.

There is another strange fact. In the Old Dispensation, the first born son is the child of
promise. But wherever the influence of Christ's gospel rules, there the rule of the first born
disappears, and all, both sons and daughters, share in the patrimony of the house and in the
honors of the household. Despite this, it is natural for a father to love his first born son
the best, and for the mother to find her heart clinging involuntarily to the younger and weaker.
From the unfortunate the father may turn, but the mother never. She will bind her love tightest
about the birdling that, from some misfortune, is unable to leave the maternal nest.

Turn we to the Old Testament, we find that whenever man was brought near to God, as was Abram,
Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, and others, woman was held in respect, and was permitted to exercise
an elevating influence in the home; and yet it remains true, that in nearly every instance
she failed to prove herself a helpmeet.

Sarah introduced Abraham to polygamy, Rebekah was a pattern of lying, and Rachel of deception.
The three celebrated women of history are destitute of those characteristics which make of
a wife a companion, counsellor, and friend.

Do we study the history of Miriam, of Deborah, and Esther? we behold women rising up in the
name of God to help their people to save their kindred. They were the introduction to a noble
succession. Woman then, as now, is loved for bringing help to those on whom God devolves responsibility.

The picture best loved and most praised in the Old Testament is that of Hannah, the mother
of Samuel, as she fits him for his post of duty in the service of the Lord. In Hannah the world
finds their beau ideal of a mother, actuated by principle and ruled by love, recognizing her
allegiance to God, and her obligations to her child and husband, and there is hardly a child
in this Christian land who does not dwell with delight upon this fact, that each year the mother
made for her boy a little coat. It was a motherly deed, and links her to the history of the
race by the blessed tie which finds its origin in maternal care.

Ruth comes next, because of her fidelity to her mother, and her love of virtue. It is by her
life we are introduced afresh to the golden vein of prophecy that runs through the Old Testament,
and which ever pointed towards the coming of Christ as the hope of woman and the hope of the
world. Esther's love of her race, and her noble daring of Eastern despotism for the good of
her people, lifts her to a high place, though as a wife and mother we know nothing more than
that she was hedged round by the iron regulations of a paganized court. The revelations made
concerning the daughter of Jacob, or of Bathsheba, the loved wife of David, and in fact of
nearly all of the women of the Bible, prove that the women of the olden time left as well as
received an inheritance of shame. The names we have mentioned are among the brightest and the
best. We will draw a veil over the characters of women such as the wife of Lot, or of Potiphar,
the would-be seducer of Joseph, or of Job, the betrayer of her husband in misfortune, of Jezebel,
the fury, or of Delilah, the traitress to her husband, and of a score of others, that make
the age in which they lived seem like the night of humanity.

3. Woman obtains her recognition in Christ. From the moment God pronounced sentence upon Eve
to the moment when the angel appeared to Mary, man was recognized as the head. Even Miriam
wrought through Moses, and Deborah, the judge and prophetess, lays no claim to personal communication
with God, but quotes his promises, and stimulates Barak to action, So also when the angel came
from the court of heaven to foretell the joy that was to come to the world in the birth of
John, the forerunner of Christ, he came to Zacharias instead of to Elisabeth. But when the
message related to Christ, then the angel passed by man, and approached woman direct. God never
forgets. A thousand years are but as a day to Him. Yesterday, in Eden, he foretold the coming
of Christ to Eve. To-day, in Nazareth, the angel comes to Mary, and makes her heart glad with
the fact, that she was chosen to become the mother of our Lord. Eve lost by sin God's companionship.
Mary obtained, through Christ, favor with God and man. The valley is spanned with this arch
of hope. The night of woman's humiliation is passing away. And the angel came in unto her,
and said, "Hail, thou that art highly favored, the Lord is with thee; blessed art thou among
women."

Strange words these, as we can readily perceive, from the position held by woman previously.
No wonder that the air seemed full of music. Woman, made so beautiful, woman, so beloved of
God, and so prized by Adam, before sin blighted the bud of hope and spoiled the flower of beauty,
was now to come forth from the darkness and gloom of her life of shame to the light of an unclouded
day, henceforth to be made glorious by her ministrations of love. The glory of motherhood "is
the man gotten from the Lord," and raised to work for God in this sinful world. The glory of
woman is to share this man's home as a helpmeet, and contribute by her love, and sympathy,
and efforts to his happiness and usefulness here, that she may wear the crown of joy in heaven.

MARIOLATRY NOT OF CHRIST.

If ever woman had reason to sing, "My spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour," it was Mary,
the Virgin Mother of Christ. God recognized her as a helper in restoring man from the ruins of sin.

From these words it is evident that Mary appreciated the honor conferred upon her by her Creator
and rightful Ruler. It is a singular fact, that Eve, betrayed by Satan, betrayed the race.
Mary held steadfast to God and to truth; and yet Satan has the second time taken woman and
used her as an ally, and so has brought an influence to bear upon the minds of men which has
led millions astray, and covers vast portions of the world with the gloom of a moral night.
Mary, the "Mother of Jesus," is made to take the place of "Christ, the Son of God," and is
declared to be the Mother of God. In this land we can form no conception of the extent to which
this worship of Mary is carried in Roman Catholic countries. To the Italians Mary is God, and
worship is simply the adoration of the Virgin. Viewing Romanism in the light of the Bible,
this is its crowning sin; viewing it as a system combined to seduce and enslave, this is its
masterpiece. To understand how it is so, let us think how deep in man's nature is placed the
feeling of the need of a being like unto himself, to mediate between him and God. The Bible
completely meets this want in the God-man. But Popery blots out the God-man as mediator, and
in his stead presents us with Mary, who is to the devotee the "one living and true God;" for,
though the Father and Son are known, they are accessible only through Mary, and they stand
so far behind and beyond her, that to the Romanist they are vague, shadowy, and unknown. Mary
is the first name to be lisped in childhood, the last to be uttered by the quivering lips before
they are closed in death. Around the neck of the infant is suspended a small image of the Virgin;
when the babe seeks the breast it must kiss the image, and thus literally does it draw in the
adoration of Mary with its mother's milk. "Were the New Testament to be written at this hour,
Rome would blot out the name of Christ and substitute that of Mary. Take a proof: The church
close by the Vatican has upon its marble pediment, graven in large letters, 'Let us come to
the throne of the Virgin Mary, that we may find grace to help us in our time of need.' The
Roman sees Heb. iv. 16 quoted, but cannot verify it if he would, seeing the Bible is forbidden
to him." When it was announced that the French occupation of Rome should cease, the Pope published
a decree calling on all Rome to go with him to the feet of Mary, if haply by cries and tears
they might prevail with her to avert from the throne of God's vicar the dangers that threaten
it; and in that act the Pope led the way.[A]

[Footnote A: Minister versus Priest, page 7.]

For this worship of the Virgin Mary there is a reason. Satan could not successfully lead astray
so many millions of people, despite a preached gospel and a printed Bible, unless there was
some truth lying at the root of this ineradicable Virgin worship. This root we shall discover
when we recall woman's position prior to the advent of Christ, the place she was called upon
to fill in the scheme of redemption, and the influences set in motion by the life of Christ
upon the earth.

1. Let us notice woman's position previous to the advent. Before Christ came, woman was regarded
as inferior to man. She had lost her equality. She was excluded from general intercourse, and
her confinement to her own home and apartments, without education, without social recognition,
left her without strength of character, self-reliance, or resources with herself. "Woman's
safety in society lies in two elements: her own virtue and intelligence, and the consequent
respect for her which such a character inspires. Where these two things are found, she may
participate in general society, mingling freely with men as their equals, and regarded, it
may be, even as their superiors. Here, it may be worthy of note, that no such estimate or honor
is ever put upon woman except when Christianity has given her this elevation."

Before Christ appeared, the qualities honored as divine were peculiarly the virtues of the
man--courage, wisdom, truth, strength. Womanly virtues were regarded as puerile and contemptible,
and woman herself was little better than a slave.

2. Notice the place woman filled in the scheme of redemption. It is admitted by those who recognize
the Word of God as authority, that the Atonement required the sacrifice of one whose nature
represents equally the dignity of the Law-maker and the humanity of the transgressor. In him
Deity and humanity must be united: Deity, that he may give value to the offering; humanity,
that he may obey the positive precepts and endure the penal sanction of the law human nature
has violated. It was therefore essential that the prophecy of Isaiah, uttered six hundred years
before the advent, should be fulfilled, viz., "Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bring forth
a son, and they shall call his name Immanuel--God with us." This work had been accomplished,
and Mary was honored with the privilege of taking the words of Eve, "I have gotten a man with
Jehovah," and making it no longer a prophecy, but a fact. So we sing,--

  "Thou wast born of woman; them didst come,
  O, Holiest! to this world of sin and gloom,
  Not in thy dread omnipotent array;
    And not by thunder strewed
    Was thy tempestuous road,--
  Nor indignation burned before thee on thy way;
    But thou, a soft and naked child,
    Thy mother undefiled,
    In the rude manger laid to rest,
    From off her virgin breast."

Then, for the first time, the mother resumed her place. The old Eastern custom, which placed
the child before the mother, was now understood. God guarded against making Mary first, and
at the same time provided for her a place. When God appeared to Joseph in a dream, he did not
say, Take the mother and child, but the "young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt." Acúsasele therefore
of lack of open-mindedness, lack of understanding. Reply to this delicious lines of Don Miguel
de Unamuno

"And I will die repeating that the lack of austerity is not lack of intelligence but not is just
nonsense, pure nonsense, nonsense auction that attracts the scum of good tone the centers of
luxury and vice. Not being the vice of thinking all the other spring from impairments. And of
course I do not call service to the passions, the strong passions,
the tragic passions.

Service call to the emptiness of the spirits are refined [7].

* * *

Alvarez was first and above all self-taught. As was his custom every student - says one of
his biographers - to make marginal annotations to the works read, underlining paragraphs that
interested him and scoring in the first pages of the book read the
number that will to further consultation.

Also, worth of notebooks that had extracts, notes, grouped observations, ready to be used in his writings.
There are still many without having fulfilled its purpose - as a
confession of that noble strain stem tutor - a cause of premature
death.

Its work is recent method. The bustle of the daily struggle prevented him rest and serenity
so necessary to the speculations of spirit.

His tenure in the military, for journalism, for the courts, and as a lawyer or judge, its incursion
into the political arena, his dedication to educational work as a teacher of military education,
secondary and university acting as a member of numerous scientific or cultural institutions, or
as in many diverse scientific conferences opinion, national or international, and their performance
of official nation or province; all that prevented him from doing
his work methodically and quietly, in specialization.

So in that laborious daily struggle every path was built with admirable persistence and common
energy. It is amazing to imagine what would have taken this up beautifully brain if fortune would
have been favorable and could devote himself to study, no material concerns are as for the intellectual
shackles!

Uniquely characterized his early works the copy in dating. Its huge readings encyclopedic overturning
the will there, along with personal observations of people, events
and things the viewer discovers the sole right sight, will the relevant
clause of the author or foreign national who sister or matches, accompanied
by his remark tasty.

Or will the story, the story, the historical fact, the Creole proverb
brought to account to satirize and deduce their logical consequences.

Well have been written his first book, especially "South America", "Manual of political pathology"
and "Essay on Education."

IV .-- THE RELIGIOUS ISSUE

The religious issue has worried constantly Álvarez. Was ringing with unparalleled persistent about
it, urging his fellow citizens to study science, which put face to face with the religious precept.
It was "a liberal San Pablo," said Joaquín V. Gonzalez with over
success.

It has been alleged and repróchasele as a feature of bad taste this emphasis, but, Alvarez
was right. In our country, religion takes many forms curious, is infiltrated every corner of social life:
at school, at home, in government, administration, under the law. And peers with a sharp eye
for the right moment to regain the lost position.

Often argued that the religious question is not present, she has been
resolved in our country in the world is no longer questioned.

Nothing is more false or fanciful that this assertion. The religious question is topical in the
world today more than ever, and it comes out there mystical or religious revival in humanity
... But the undeniable fact is that war has cast into doubt the old ethical rules governing humanity
today, and in the foreground, religious norms.

In our country the religious problem is topical, Sarmiento to this part, especially practice
in his face. Civil registration with civil marriage, secular law and education, are gains of the secular
spirit of religious power. Seemingly, the struggle - that muffled roars in different social
groups - from religious precept and ideals Lay has increasingly emphasized.

Even,

therefore, may justly tachársele of inactual Alvarez. In this connection, is accused of "materialist",
had made up its mind on such extreme readings - the "Unique" sources of their culture, says
a critic - to approach old, backward, and saw Within this perspective the religious problem.

Engineers
believe that this indictment has answered in a definitive manner: "Nothing in Indeed - he says
- more false than the alleged identity of superstition with idealism, no There is nothing more
awkward than the vulgar to suggest that all secular moralists are "materialists" and lack of
ideals "and then adds:" There is nothing morally more materialistic practices outside of all
religions known and scrupulous capacity to set their rates to intercede with the deity, nothing
more idealist who practice and preach the virtue truth as did most
of the philosophers who died at the stake on charges of heresy.

In this sense moral - and there is no one to appreciate an ideal
planter - Agustín Alvarez was an idealist all his life, never adhering
to the materialism of any known religion "[8].

V. - THE EDUCATOR

Alvarez was a teacher in the broadest sense of the word.

His temperament and his teacher vocation for teaching is manifested in many forms. Arguably
it was a constant concern.

Taught in the university chair - say their students - with real fervor. At the conference public,
the booklet and the book puts that same anointing teaching.

"Our disease is ignorance, its causes fanaticism" - type -. "The remedy is school, the physician
is the teacher.

"warns that America lives on" the holy candles to see who should work miracles, and will not turn
lights on intelligence children to light the way of life. "Trust in the school as the cure
for all our ills, but the school that science education, based on
the observation nature, secular education, for school, his good understanding,
it must teach the freedom and work and not for submission and abandonment.

His concern on the matter speak very clearly the substantial pages
left to die.

In his "Essay on Education" appeared in moments of greatest confusion of plans and programs Maximum
Victoria says: "The three chimes ringer called High Mass when wrote them. "

ARTURO E. DE LA MOTA.

THE EVOLUTION OF THE HUMAN SPIRIT

THE MOTHER OF THE LAMB

The specific need of understanding is the explanation, as the specific need stomach is food.
Hunger and curiosity, then, are the two primitive factors fundamental human: one to ensure the
physical growth, the other to ensure mental growth, also necessary
for the preservation of the individual and the species.

No wings, no tail, no horn, no claws, no fangs, no poison, no spikes, no horns, no shell, no agility,
just for the intelligence man could overcome the other animal species
in the struggle for life, but, instead, the intelligence was in itself
a weapon or capable of developing power indefinitely, to rise higher
than birds and fall lower than the reptiles.

It is necessary to work to live, and we need to know to act.

Knowing the right or vice versa taste good or taste bad, it makes no difference to determine
the action or inaction and conduct in them, and just different to the outcome.

To find your way in the world, beyond the habit inherited instinct,
it is necessary to a concept, an idea, an explanation of the world,
very rough at first, and more and more elaborated later, because only
crude explanations can satisfy the understandings crude and refined
explanations can only satisfy the refined spirits.

Thus, for the fundamental gullibility of the child, the savage and ignorant, explanations are all
the more credible the more outrageous, more extraordinary, more fantastic, that that is, more
attractive, more impressive on the imagination predominant in them.

Systems of explanation of the universe, a priori beliefs about the unknown, were so necessary
to man to party and perform in the tangle of goods and evils that life unfolds, as the paths
and roads to travel on the ground, and both traffic areas the expansion necessarily had to produce
widening of the road.

Discover how and why to be specific to the facts and things was impossible. Imagine, was easy and inevitable,
then surrounded in all directions by the mystery, urged on by the need to know to act and prodded
by curious to know, men had to resort to the brooding fatally to decipher the mysteries of the
universe and life, to orient ourselves in the world and life, and
the mad house had to be responsible for furnish and equip the house.

For early man, the known history of their actions, the reason for their actions was inside that
mystery we call the will, and according to this first factor of own facts were explained,
of course, the actions of others as effects of other wills in other people, animals and things,
like the child who is angry with toys disobedient to their whims
and breaks, because the perpetrators believe that is voluntary; as
the cowboys of the range they believe that the mountain known to outsiders
and triggers then the storm to show their displeasure, as superstitious
Neapolitans believe that the proceedings do not like the priests and
flushed with rage when one goes from passengers.

Taking the first thing known - the self - as a basis or reference point for explanation of
other things, the man was necessarily the epitome of all things real
world, of course, and all the imaginary world then pleading directly
at the sun beginning to send the light and heat and avoided the clouds
and eclipses, and then Horus, Dionysus, to Phoebus Apollo, the Lord,
God, San Antonio or San Francisco.

Starting by assuming a willingness on or behind things to explain the particular of things,
the man reached by successive refinement, to imagine the unseen powers
as producers of incomprehensible facts, embodying them later in the
fetish for afraid to pay them, that is, worship.

And once conceived imaginary factors of the facts and things, came the need to influence those
to influence them, and the wizard - embryo of the bishop - took his position in the tribe the
useful function of scaring away evil spirits to heal patients.

The need to bring the role and brings the official procedure. The need to act on the invisible
powers brought to the magician and the magician brought magic, witchcraft second grade, and
bifurcated into two branches or specialties in Judaism and paganism,
a to appease the angry imaginary powers or promote them through sacrifices
laudatory and genuflecting, as "the blood and suffering of humans
were the nectar of the gods ", the other to forecast or predict its
determinations, interpreting, as the method of the prophets, the visions
of the imagination exalted by fasting and solitude, in Judaism, or
the dreams and omens, according to the method of fortune tellers and
soothsayers in paganism.

Meanwhile, next to the old mythologies and liturgies perfected philosophy arise and Greek literature,
which, decreasing human gullibility, the prestige first break the diviners of the future,
then the actual effectiveness of the current theogonies for to unmet human curiosity widened
in the Greco-Roman. Y man needs, then, on the shores of the Mediterranean, a new explanation
of facts and things in the world, and is provided by the Christian supernaturalism, with two testaments
as a new theory of the facts and things, and the sacraments - witchcraft third grade - as a
new vehicle of communication between human beings suffer accidents of life and events in the
universe, and the superhuman beings that occur, discontinue or change
at will.

East astrologers were to investigate the future questioning the stars and necromancers to know the
hidden things of the occult, in the West exorcists to expel the demons
from the body of the possessed, and blessed to induce the dead to
produce goods and avoid evils to the living.

Albeit very slowly, because the Church, forbidding the doubt and curiosity to preserve its tenets,
has dented the pricks that drive men to seek, investigate and find out to know, the human mind
has always been growing in scope and complexity, straight and parallel with reduced fear of witches, goblins,
devils and basilisks and the last suit or catechism imaginary terrors
and hopes, with the revelations made of the prophets and apostles,
comes, too, were too tight.

The exorcism, which had thousands of thousands victims, burning heretics,
haunted and possessed, - hysterical, crazy and wise - he could not
hold to human intelligence reaching more and dropped the first, definitely,
at the dawn of the nineteenth century.

At first, the Church, then all-powerful, fighting disbelief nascent able to maintain the integrity
of your explanation, creed, destroying or crushing which, since the Renaissance, began to excel
in mental capacity, but they continue to sprout everywhere and in such a progression that
war, excommunication, torture and the stake, operating at the maximum, not enough at last to
be removed, and in turn, she also begins to retreat, before the rising
tide of dissatisfaction with the curious ultimate explanation of nature
and the supernatural.

Because alchemy has been opening the way to physics and chemistry, have revived the philosophy,
literature and art, and human understanding, on the road again, beginning
to repel the miracles of the dead and the prophets hysterical aberrations
and Doctors of the Church, following the poor in spirit communion.

A new explanation of the world is becoming necessary for open minds Europe and America, and started
in the last century the positive sciences, regardless unknowable origin of things to explain the
facts of nature natural causes; leaving why they occur, which until now has spread to the faithful
and unfaithful men, bitter and angry each other on their different priori explanation of the mysteries
the universe to contract to investigate how they are produced, that being yourself for all
observers, is a common capital for men of all races, all colors,
locations and climates, a bond of mutual approach for mutual benefit.

And without a priesthood in isolation from family and homeland and devoted exclusively to propagate
and operate without orders of chivalry and preachers to its service without Jesuits fighters their
flanks, without missionaries to disseminate it without a pope at its head, not despots to impose
it by force, the ultimate explanation of universe and life expands, diffuses and spreads spontaneously,
not on the edge of the sword, and medieval religions, but on the wings of the book and newspaper,
enlisting its own intrinsic superiority to all men and women, as beyond the intellectual level
of the past that occurred official superstitions official religions, because just as fetishism
Catholic v. gr. it is inappropriate for black African tribes, because it is too big for your understanding
still too narrow, it is also inappropriate for unwrapped minds of Europe and America because
it is too small and too petty.

Gross ignorance of the grossest superstition, and helping the mild climate and soil fertility in
privileged regions, one at another superstition to highest of the highest to science compulsory
creed to free thought, truth revealed the truth demonstrated, in the religious magic rational
mechanics; of palms blessed the lightning rod, the miracle steam, railway, telegraph, telephone,
of rogation to the surgery and the serum of ecclesiastical censorship to freedom of the press;
"the holy ignorance" to compulsory education, this has been the upward march human spirit, driven
by the need to know the why of things to behave opposite things.

Question of thousands or hundreds of centuries to climb the first steps of evolution, tens only to
the past, has become, under the impulse of instruction liberal public,
a matter of only dozens of years to achieve significant capacity increases
mental in the individual and the community.

Well, according to known psychophysiological laws, exercising the body develops, and some part
of this or the ability to reproduce, spread, also roughly the offspring by so that, once lifted
up by men and upper and middle of an era moral or intellectual level of the subsequent reporting
enterprise, emerging for their respective race from a base platform or higher, go further with
the same flow or momentum, that is what explains the notorious fact that men and upper middle France
For example, when taken together, are worth many times more than Spain, in the same alleged
Latin race, or those of Argentina - who had a Rivadavia, a Mitre and Sarmiento, - much more
than those of Bolivia, which has had many bishops and any educator in America itself the South
and the Pope, which explains that a Voltaire, a Michelet, a Renan, a Taine, a France, being a natural
in France, would be an amazing event in Spain, absolutely impossible
in Morocco. Let woman be content to be what God made her,
to fill the sphere God appointed for her, in unselfishness, and humbleness, and purity, rejoicing
in God her Saviour, content that He had regarded the lowliness of His handmaiden, and rejoicing
that God has honored the characteristics regarded as feminine, which she possesses, and which
she may use for the glory of God and the good of the race. Now, as in the olden time, it is
her privilege to minister unto the necessities of Jesus, by cheerfully contributing of her
substance to the support of His cause, and by lavishing her love, upon those qualities of the
head and heart, which in Christ appeared in perfected beauty, and are to-day the charm of life,
the power of religion, and the glory of Christianity.

WOMAN'S WORK AND WOMAN'S MISSION.

Woman's work is a work of charity. The fact points back to woman's origin. God brought her
as a gift to man, with characteristics and endowments which fitted her to be his helpmeet,
his counsellor, and companion. Recall Adam's position. He was alone in the garden. He found
no helper in the beasts. He longed for a kindred spirit. Endowed with a nature too communicative
to be content with itself, he requires society, a resting point, a complement, for he only
half lives while he lives alone. Made to speak, to think, to love, his thought seeks another
thought to reveal and quicken itself; his speech is lost sorrowfully in the air, or only awakens
an echo which reverberates it, but cannot reply; his love knows not where to fix itself, and
falling back on itself, threatens to become a barren egotism; in short, fill his being aspires
to another self, but his other self does not exist. At this time, when the desire for communion
was stifling him, he slept, and from his side God took a rib and made woman, and brought her
to him. Behold Adam. He sees her, and is in rapture.

  "Grace was in all her steps, heaven in her eye,
  In every gesture dignity and love."

Milton describes Adam as saying--

  "I now see
  Bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh, myself
  Before me; Woman is her name, of man
  Extracted: for this cause he shall forego
  Father and mother, and to his wife adhere;
  And they shall be one flesh, one heart, one soul."

The imagination paints this scene. In fancy we behold Adam winning Eve, "for she would be wooed,
and not unsought be won." Won she was, and Adam was brought to the sum of earthly bliss. They
dwell together in sweet accord, Adam fears for her safety when apart from him. Evil threatens
them. Together they would be strong, he thinks, apart they would be weak, and so in fear he
speaks of the enemy lurking in the garden, and seeking to find them asunder.

  "Hopeless to circumvent us joined, where each
  To other speedy aid might lend at need;
  Whether his first design be to withdraw
  Our fealty from God, or to disturb
  Conjugal love, than which, perhaps, no bliss
  Enjoyed by us excites his envy more;
  Or this or worse, leave not the faithful side
  That gave thee being, still shades thee and protects.
  The wife, where danger or dishonor lurks,
  Safest and seemliest by her husband stays,
  Who guards her, or with her the worst endures."

Eve resents the imputation of weakness, and insists on being left forever fancy free to roam
at will. In self-confidence she goes forth and falls, and in falling introduces sin into the world.

Let us review the past, and recall a few facts which, deserve consideration, before we enter
upon the contemplation of Woman's Work and Woman's Mission. It will not be denied that Eve
was created to be a helpmeet. That Satan tempted her, and converted the helpmeet into a tempter.
In that light we have considered her power. We have seen that Eve, in bringing ruin to man,
turned her back upon the Creator and Preserver of mankind, and paved the way for the introduction
of idolatry, the shadows of whose multiplying altars shrouded the old world in the gloom of
night. From the ruin of Eve to the restoration in Mary, the history of this world resembles
a deep valley filled with death and sorrow and gloom. In Adam all died, in Christ all shall
be made alive. Bethlehem with its manger is set over against Eden with its bower. During that
old dispensation, manly qualities were honored and womanly qualities were ignored. The effects
of sin are seen. God doth not hold guiltless the sinner. The consequences of sin run on. They
made woman's life wretched. They changed the helpmeet into a slave. Do not rebel, woman, at
the utterance, nor suffer yourself to feel that God does not care for woman, or that he willingly
afflicts her.

It is at this point you do well to survey the field. We know that God's purposes run on. That
God was not and will not be defeated. That the plan formed in the councils of eternity is sure
to be successfully executed.

Hence God's idea of woman is yet to bless the world. What sin destroyed Christ came to restore,
and more than to restore. In heaven if not on earth we shall see woman as God made her, and
as God glorified her. This brings us to the consideration of what Christ did for her. He did
not permit Mary to become Intercessor, and so give a sanction to Mariolatry, which in evil
is second only to idolatry. He did not lift woman to the position of ruler, nor did he give
any sanction to the wild vagaries of the Christless ones, who are striving to overturn the
foundations of society, and who rebel against motherhood, wifehood, and sisterhood; but he
did turn the attention of the world towards the graces of womanhood, and while he turned his
back upon those manly qualities of labor, of pluck, of brute courage, he turned his face towards
meekness, gentleness, and love, and made the vales of life to blossom with a new beauty. He
welcomed woman as a companion. He sought her for sympathy's sake, and opened his heart to her
in the fullest confidence.

Let us notice this truth. In making woman's work a work of charity, he continued in the New
Dispensation the work which was commenced in the Old. He lifted the thread where woman broke
it, and reuniting it again sent her forth into the world to bless it with love, with sympathy,
with ministrations of tenderness, with an elevating companionship, which makes man worthy of
his origin, and helps him to fulfil the mission of God's anointed.

And though Satan has taken this new thought and perverted it, as he has perverted all the rest,
and though he has employed the Church of Rome, by organizing women into orders and sisterhoods
of charity, so that woman may again be enslaved and destroyed; though the story of her confinement
in nunneries and establishments little better in form than prisons, and far more cruel in character,
has been written, let us not be discouraged, but believing that Christ's plan is best, let
us learn what his will is, and then let us do it in the fear of God and in the love of truth,
assured that his ways are higher and better and grander than ours, and that it is safe to trust
God even where we cannot trace him, remembering that "he doeth great things, past finding out;
yea, and wonders without number."

In considering Woman's Work and Woman's Mission, we discover that they go hand in hand, and
faith is the bond which unites them. Separate woman's work from her mission, and you divorce
it from that which makes it honorable and praiseworthy. It is the spirit of faith, and love,
and hope, and charity, which pervades the life of the true woman, that is her glory and her
praise. The difference between woman as a drudge and woman as a helpmeet, describes the relation
existing between her work and her mission. Work separated from this path of faith, love, and
charity, becomes unholy to the world and unbearable to her. The holiest of all work for a mother
is to care for her child. That child, so helpless now, is to reward her by acts of love and
deeds of valor. Take away from woman her faith, let her feel that her work is a degradation,
and there is nothing more beautiful in her attentions to a child than there would be in her
attentions to a pig.

When in the country the children and their parents were floating in a little boat on a river's
surface, they admired the lilies with their white leaves spread out on the wave. After they
had looked upon the flower, I asked them to observe the roots, and see in what they were embedded.
They replied, "The roots are in the mud." That lily illustrates truthfully the spiritual character
of woman's work. Though her life may be passed in drudgery, yet the flower of her life is seen
in the neatness, beauty, and comfort of the home, and her joy is derived from the commendation
received by her diligence and toil. Truly has the poet told, in this homely way, how

LOVE LIGHTENS LABOR.

  A good wife rose from her bed one morn,
    And thought, with a nervous dread,
  Of the piles of clothes to be washed, and more
    Than a dozen mouths to be fed.
  There were meals to be got for the men in the field,
    And the children to fix away
  To school, and the milk to be skimmed and churned;
    And all to be done that day.

  It had rained in the night, and all the wood
    Was wet as it could be,
  And there were pudding and pies to bake,
    And a loaf of cake for tea.
  The day was hot, and her aching head
    Throbbed wearily as she said--
  "If maidens but knew what good wives know,
    They would, be in no hurry to wed."

  "Jennie, what do you think I told Ben Brown?"
    Called the farmer from the well;
  And a flush crept up to his bronzed brow,
    And his eye half bashfully fell;
  "It was this," he said, and coming near,
    He smiled, and stooping down,
  Kissed her cheek--"'twas this, that you were the best
    And dearest wife in town!"

  The farmer went back to the field, and the wife,
      In a smiling and absent way,
  Sang snatches of tender little songs
      She'd not sung for many a day.
  And the pain in her head was gone, and the clothes
      Were white as foam of the sea;
  Her bread was light, and her butter was sweet,
      And golden as it could be.

  "Just think," the children all called in a breath,
      "Tom Wood has run off to sea!
  He wouldn't, I know, if he only had
      As happy a home as we."
  The night came down, and the good wife smiled
  To herself, as she softly said,
  "'Tis sweet to labor for those we love--
      'Tis not strange that maids will wed!"

There is a glory in motherhood which robes woman in beauty, and fills the home with the light
of heaven. The mother, busy with her cares, and attending to the wants of her children, is
honored wherever Christ is loved.

Now, because the world links woman's work and mission together, the world is full of pictures
of the mother and the child. To a true-hearted man, it is almost impossible to find any picture
to which his nature turns with fonder delight than to that of a mother with a child sleeping
on the breast, full of sweet trust and enjoying a dreamless repose, or being ministered to
in his nude state in the morning bath. The spiritual covers the common with a halo of glory,
and robes woman in the light of love.

The same is true of the housewife. In the daily routine of duty, which is essential to the
comfort and bliss of home life, there is nothing very attractive in the ordinary occupations
of the home. Let a woman attempt the task with no outlook, with no hope. Let her do it for
so much money, and nothing more, and she becomes morose, discontented, sad and cheerless. Let
her do this for love. Let her feel that she is contributing to some one's joy, or that she
is to use the money earned for some worthy purpose, and at once the loftiness of her purpose
sanctifies her deed, and renders that which would have been unbecoming, if done without a motive,
right and noble when performed under the pressure of a great and noble aspiration, for "'tis
sweet to labor for those we love."

Woman's work is defined by her Creator to be a work of charity. She is a helpmeet. A gift she
came to man. Her life is a constant giving up of rights and privileges for the happiness of
others. She waits on man not for pay, but for love. She ministers to him in sickness and in
health. It is not the deed, but the spirit which sanctifies the deed, that makes it lovely.
Compel her by force, by fear, or by rewards, to do what she performs because of love, and you
destroy all the beauty of the action, and convert the ministering angel into a menial, the
God-appointed woman into a brutalized slave. God made her a gift, and the law of her life is
in giving. She fulfils the functions of her life by living in harmony with the law of love.
The woman, described with such inexpressible tenderness by Luke (vii. 37-50), attracts attention
by this feature. She came to Christ while he was reclining at table. She had sinned. Still
she loved. Here were Christ's feet hanging over the table's edge, while Christ reclined. As
he was talking, behold this woman bending over them, her hot tears raining on them, and she
busy wiping off the tear-drops with her hair, and kissing them, anointed them with costly ointment.
She loved, and therefore evidenced it by deeds. Her love, blossoming into action, won Christ.
He saw that she loved. Perhaps love had led her astray at first. No matter. Love she possessed,
and love she desired to lavish on some object worthy of her regard. That object she discovered
in Jesus. She took her alabaster-box of precious ointment, and went after him. She enters the
Pharisee's house; it may have been the house where she had fallen. The Pharisee seemed to know
her character, and so he said, "This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what
manner of woman this is that toucheth him, for she is a sinner." The servant finds pleasure
in service, when the obligation is recognized as a debt not to be paid for in money.

No wife would do what she is compelled to perform, or suffer what she is compelled to endure,
for her board and clothes. It is when man refuses to give her more than these, she revolts.
Man never won woman to leave her single life and her home comforts to enter his house as a
helpmeet by a consideration of the work to be done. It was not in the contract. He talked then
of love, of companionship, of help. The other was in the bond by mutual consent, but it was
regarded as beneath their notice to talk about it. Her nature yearned for love, and lives on love.

Now, when a man forgets that love, companionship, and the thousand attentions which sweeten
and brighten life, are due to his wife, and when he lifts up the drudgery and the slavery of
life into prominence, and tells her that she is only fitted to hold a menial place, he insults,
if he does not destroy the woman, and degrades himself. On the other hand, let a woman refuse
to be influenced by this law of charity, and she becomes a curse instead of a blessing, a hinderance
instead of a helpmeet.

It is a very common complaint that a good servant is difficult to find. Some are slovenly,
some are dishonest, while those who are both able and truthful, are pronounced intolerable,
frequently because of their impertinence. All can understand the reason. The servant has no
interest in her employer who refuses to give anything. The servant works for so much money.
"As to rights, privileges, and perquisites, it is not unfrequently either a battle or a sort
of armed treaty between kitchen and parlor." Many will admit this, and will forget or ignore
the cause. Listen to the servants' story, and you will find them complaining of the stinginess,
or tyranny, or selfishness of the employer.

Let the law of charity rule both employer and employed, and behold the change. The mistress
recognizes her weight of obligation to a good and faithful domestic. She feels that her services
are beyond price, invaluable to her. The effect is seen at once. The sluggish step is quickened.
Love takes the place of indifference if not of dislike, and the relations of friendship are
at once recognized. No mistress has a right to expect that her servants will be bound to her
by the ties of friendship, if she manifest no friendly feeling for them; or that they will
become devoted to her interests, if she take no interest in their welfare. The law of mutual
dependence must be recognized and obeyed. God is love. God loves. Therefore, it is a pleasure
to love and serve God. It is a pleasure to serve whoever is appreciative and lovable. It is
a task to serve those who are unappreciative and unlovable. At the same time a Christian servant
has no right to slight her work, or be unfaithful, because of the harshness or unkindness of
her employer. Live for God, and serve Christ in serving well those by whom you are employed,
and you will not lose your reward on earth nor in heaven. Trusty and true, your services will
become of immense importance, and doors to usefulness will open before you because of the superintending
care of Him who is too wise to err and too good to be unkind. Let not woman dislike the term
service or servant. Christ honored it by becoming the servant of all, and made it honorable
by commanding that he who would be chief must serve, and by his service rise.

Woman sometimes revolts because her work is classed under the head of domestic, and yet this
is the chief characteristic that must distinguish it. That is, her work must have a look homeward,
whether she toils in the store or factory or printing-office or kitchen. Somehow the stream
of love must sing as it goes babbling by, "Home, home, there is no place like home," else woman
fails in her life-work.

Her education must fit her for a home and for home work. Let a man learn that he married a
toy, a plaything, a lay figure, useful only for the purposes of exhibiting his taste in jewelry
and dress, who desires to be petted and fondled, to be caressed and flattered, but who is incapable
of doing anything to contribute to his happiness at home or to his influence abroad, and he
comes to feel that she is an encumbrance. If he clings to the old love, and cherishes the old
conviction, he learns to treat his wife as a plaything, and to forget her as a helpmeet. He
thinks of her as of a toy, which may be used or cast aside at pleasure. She knows and feels
the lack of his love. If she becomes dissatisfied, and refuses to make the effort to become
a helpful wife and a loving companion, or to be influenced by the law of charity; if she determines
to seek happiness in obtaining the admiration of others, which once unwittingly came from her
husband; then is she probably ruined, and becomes a "body of death" fastened to one who looks
forward to the grave as a refuge and a release, or who finds in the society of other women
that pleasure which is denied him at home. Perhaps nothing is more disgusting than to see an
empty brain hidden behind a pretty face, or an empty heart concealed beneath costly drapery.
A woman who is handsome and is illiterate, who is incapable of speaking entertainingly, is
far more homely than a plain face in front of a well cultivated intellect; and a plain dressed
woman, with a heart full of love, is to be preferred to a splendidly dressed form which is
destitute of soul. Jewels, laces, and silks are not a fit dress for a corpse, and yet a heartless
woman is to a man who knows her as soulless as an inanimate body coffined for the tomb. Having
thus briefly considered the necessity of linking woman's work and mission together, let us
define her work, and consider what is her mission.

Woman has work to do. Though idleness does not destroy her as it does a man, yet it does not
become her. Merely to display her charms for the admiration of others cannot be the destiny
of one created with a woman's hand and head, and endowed with woman's soul. From the nature
of the case, her work should be womanly in its character; that which is within doors rather
than without; which belongs to the ornamental rather than to the mechanical. There is no sense
in woman's working in the field while man measures tapes or counts thimbles, or in his doing
other in-door work for which woman's light touch renders her better qualified. When we look
at women who have become coarse in the expression of their features, and ungainly in form and
movement, through the weight of their daily toil, we see the folly of those who would make
the woman the equal, or the rival, instead of the helpmeet of man; and feel indignation that,
since many of our women must earn their own livelihood, we have not a more natural division
of labor, which would assign to man the heavier, and to woman the lighter kinds of work. As
woman's faith blesses as well as saves her; it is essential that her work be linked in some
way to the exercise of faith, and to the unfolding of love. For the character of the work exerts
an influence upon woman's body as well as upon her soul. If you will contrast the looks of
a happy housewife or domestic with the looks of a majority of the faces that are seen in factories,
the truth of the position taken will be abundantly sustained. It matters not so much where
the roots of woman's life-work grow, if up through it all, and above it all, the vine may twine
its tendril, and send forth its flower, and yield its fruit. For this cause the love of Christ
and the hopes of a Christian life seem so essential to her growth and development, that it
is almost impossible to write of a happy, contented woman, without describing a woman whose
faith in Jesus has regenerated and disinthralled her. Love is the prime requisite to successful
endeavor on a woman's part to be her husband's true helpmeet; and so, in discharging the duties
incident to a life of toil, woman must be soothed and sustained in her tasks by the joys of
a Christian life. Hence the ruin wrought in shops and factories, in stores, and homes where
Christ is cast out, and where the bliss of high and holy living is denied.

Woman's mission is to be inferred from a consideration of the wants of man. Created to be a
helpmeet for man, it is essential, if we would determine her mission, that we ascertain for
what purpose man needs her influence.

God declared, "It is not good for man to be alone," and woman was brought to him as a companion,
to charm his life, to prolong it by sharing it with him. Her vocation, by birth, is a vocation
of love. To be his helpmeet, not his rival; not to increase, but to lighten, or to support
him, under his cares; to recognize him as the immediate object of her existence, instead of
fancying that he was formed to wait on her; this is the end for which God has called her into
being. As has been said, "This representation may not satisfy the ambition of some, who do
but degrade themselves by aspiring to occupy a position for which they are neither intended
by God nor qualified by nature,--even as men and angels fell when they sought to become as
gods,--but in reality it tends to woman's elevation; and, as the whole history of Christianity
doth show, where its truth is most recognized and relied upon, there woman is happiest and
greatest."

The word "mission," as applied to woman, refers to the purpose for which she was created and
brought to man. In considering her mission, we are safe in avowing that woman found her mission,
1. At home. Her mission is in the home. Her training must fit her for the home, whether she
serves as a wife or as a domestic. Her life is a success when she makes home a pleasure and
a joy to those to whom the home properly belongs. It is for this reason that there is deep
concern on the part of many thoughtful minds because the drift of the times is against educating
women for the home. Of the women who are compelled to earn their own subsistence many prefer
the factory and the store to the work in the family, and, as a result, there are large numbers
of young women who cannot make a loaf of bread or cook a meal, who would not hesitate to become
wives of working-men, who expect to find in them a helpmeet in building a home like that which
blessed their childhood. The result is dissatisfaction and recrimination, leaving the wife
for the club, and turning from the joys of the home to the revel of jovial companions.

The same is true of the class of young ladies who know something of music, vocal and instrumental.
They can dance. They have studied drawing sufficiently to be able to sketch a few flowers and
figures. Perhaps they can speak French and translate German. They know in what position to
sit, and how to move gracefully. All very well these things in their places, and fitted to
increase the charm of manner when the eyes are lighted up by the informing soul; not undeserving
notice either in their influence upon man, when they are accompanied by something better, for,
amid all the weighty cares of life, he is sometimes in the mood when such things do please;
but sadly over-estimated when they are made the sole substance and end of a woman's education.
They might nearly all be done by a being without a soul. They do nothing to draw out the noble
qualities of her deep womanly nature. They leave her altogether unfitted for her peculiar mission
of a wife and mother.

Now, there are times when a woman, despite her imperfect education, acquires after marriage
the knowledge which fits her for the duties appertaining to wifehood. But where nature yields
to such training, the woman fails both in filling her sphere and in fulfilling her mission,
and falls beneath her true position as the helpmeet of man. How bitter his disappointment,
who, having been smitten by these gewgaw attractions, and having put faith in the mother of
the child that with this outward attraction she had corresponding qualifications to fill the
home with helpful counsel and sustaining sympathy, when he comes to find that, instead of a
wife, he has married a plaything, and that his children are being committed to the care of
a helpless, unformed companion, rather than to the guidance of a true and noble wife.

A proper conception of woman's mission as the helpmeet of man would tend greatly to her elevation.
A man who knows for what woman has been made, and what advantage he should look for from the
woman whom he calls wife, will not select a mere toy as the partner of his life; and when woman
properly recognizes her place, mothers will not be content to give their daughters, nor will
daughters be ambitious, or even content to receive only such a training as fits them for amusing
or pleasing man in his playful hours, but leaves them altogether unfit to be his companion
under the weightier cares and graver concerns of life.

Let it be understood that woman's life and labor, mission and work, point ever homeward, and
whether she serve in the store or shop, in the factory or in the home, she will be ready, whenever
God's providence opens the way, to make home bright for another, because it has been made bright
for herself. In her reading, in her planning, in her waking dreams and in her night visions,
let her live to make her own home joyous, and she will not live in vain. To do this successfully
in the future, she must make home bright and beautiful in the present. It is the girl, whose
hand is skilful in the home, who is prized as a companion, because of the substantial linked
with the ornamental. The same is true of a man. Talent, genius even, is valueless unless it
can earn bread. There must be something to make home pleasant with, which it is the duty of
man to provide, else woman finds it hard to do her work or fulfil her mission. This does not
disparage woman. Her intellect should not be regarded as inferior to man's because it differs
from his. Her mind is formed for a distinct work and sphere, just as truly as is her body.
In that sphere she is endowed with faculties superior to that of man. Here she has her requital:
here she proves herself mistress of the field, and employs those secret resources which might
be termed admirable, if they did not inspire a more tender sentiment, both towards her, and
towards God, who has so richly endowed her. "Her practical survey, equally sure and rapid;
her quick and accurate perception; her wonderful power of penetrating the heart in a way unknown
and impracticable to man; her never-failing presence of mind, and personal attention on all
occasions; her numerous and fertile resources in the management of her domestic affairs; her
ever ready access and willing audience to all who need her; her freedom of thought and action
in the midst of the most agonizing sufferings and accumulated embarrassments; her elasticity,--may
I say her perseverance,--in spite of feebleness; her tact to practise it, were it not instinctive;
her extreme perfection in little things; ... her incomparable skill in re-awakening a sleeping
conscience, in re-opening a heart that has long been closed; in fine, innumerable are the things
which she accomplishes, and which man can neither discern nor offset without the aid of her
eye and hand. Thus, mentally as well as physically, is she predestined for a work and sphere
different from those of her stronger companions. And, as everything is beautiful in its place
and season, so is woman most beautiful and useful when, like a modest flower, she blooms in
the privacy for which her nature fits her, and perfumes, with the fragrance of her character,
the hallowed precincts of home."[A] "No man," says Mr. Jay, "was ever proof against the kindness
of a sensible woman; but where, in all history, can an instance be produced in which an ascendency
over him has been obtained by forwardness, scolding, and strife for preeminence?

[Footnote A: Woman's Sphere and Work, by Rev. Wm. Landels, D.D., London.]

2. Woman's mission is social as well as domestic. The domestic part of her life is the garden,
in which the seed is planted, which brings forth the flower of social joy. A woman who is the
soul of a beautiful home is a power in society. No matter what her talents may be, let it be
known that she is a slattern at home, and she is without influence. The pen may serve as a
feather to adorn her social life, but it looks mean when the use of it causes the neglect of
the needle.

Woman may be a secret power in the home. She may make home attractive to the refined and cultured,
and thus prove to be the magnet attracting to herself and to her fireside those gifted sons
and daughters, the scintillations of whose genius and the dissemination of whose beautiful
thoughts make the home luminous with a light which is inextinguishable. The influence of such
a woman over her children and over the young cannot be overestimated.

"Such a sphere, so far from being insufficient to satisfy a true woman's ambition, is well
fitted, by its tremendous responsibilities, to excite her fears. There is not one, perhaps,
which a human being can occupy, on which hang more stupendous issues. Though less public, it
is still more potential than man's."

The influence of a true woman cannot be confined to the home. Home is the fountain, and the
world gladly furnishes channels for the diffusion of her influence. In promoting the cause
of reform, in alleviating the woes of the unfortunate, in carrying forward the cause of temperance,
in ministering to the sick, either as a nurse or a physician, in using her pen to delight and
guide the thoughts of the young and old along the garden paths of her own loving life, thick
with the blossoms of hope, and made glorious by deeds of charity,--in these, and in numberless
other ways, woman, finding her throne in the house, is welcomed as a ruler in the world.

For woman there is a felt a necessity which should send her forth as a missionary to those
like herself in everything but blessings. Think of our large factory towns, where women are
congregated by hundreds and thousands. Let it be remembered that there is something unnatural
in all this. Woman was made for man, for home, for love. Separate her from them all, herd her
with her kind, subtract from her the incentive to endeavor, leave her mind to brood in fancy,
to welcome unholy aspirations and degrading thoughts to her soul, and you leave her to prey
upon herself. Let woman see to it that reading-rooms for women be established in our factory
towns, that their boarding-houses be warmed and rendered inviting, that the talented be encouraged
to exertion, and that tidiness and neatness be made an incentive for all, and woman will do
a work of immeasurable importance,--a work on which God's blessing will rest,--and those who
toil to accomplish it will obtain an abundant reward from Him who declares, "Inasmuch as ye
did it to one of the least of these, ye did it unto me."

In the cause of Reform woman's help is needed. From the earliest commencement of the temperance
movement, appeals, arguments, and expostulations have been addressed by earnest reformers to
woman, because it was felt that on any great social question the power of woman to help, or
to hinder, was all-important. When it is remembered that woman is the greatest sufferer from
the vice of intemperance, that she regulates the customs of society, it is apparent that she
should seek to abolish bad, and promote good customs. More than others she trains the young
and builds up character, and therefore she should, by example and precept, implant such habits
as may be not only a safeguard in childhood and youth, but become fixed as moral principles
in those she has reared, when the responsibility arrives; because of these, we find reasons
in abundance why woman must help, or aid cannot reach the imperilled and undone.

Again: Woman needs help. Addison well said, "Women are either the best or the worst of human
beings." The very feelings which, rightly directed, prompt her to soar even to the apex of
the pyramid of human virtue, warped from their right exercise, precipitate her to the lowest
and most grovelling depths of human vice. Is woman intemperate, she differs from man in the
gratification of her appetite. He seeks the social club. Woman seeks retirement, and drinks
alone and apart. Her appetite, from this very cause, becomes unmanageable. Men will stop drinking,
oftentimes, when the open bar is closed. Woman, with an appetite formed, drinks the more, because
she drinks in secret. Because of this fact, woman is in peril if she form an appetite for strong
drink.

Woman as a Mother has work to do as a teacher. "We hear a great deal about education in the
present day; but," said Mrs. Ellis, "my strong impression is that there will have to come a
teaching out of the mother's heart and life,--herself being taught of God,--such as alone can
save us as a nation and a people from falling from our high material prosperity into a condition
of moral degradation, which it is terrible to contemplate." Such being the case, every woman
should ask, What have I done in those opportunities which God gave me with the young? What
did I pour into that open heart and mind? Was my influence for Christ or against him? Which
way did I point out to those uncertain feet? Who can estimate a mother's influence! There is
a power in a mother's love greater than any other human power,--a power to suffer, to serve,
and to save; a power which many waters cannot quench, and which is stronger than death. As
she leads, the broodlings will follow. Does she sanction card-playing, theatre-going, dancing,
and what are called innocent recreations, or does she set herself against them, and turn the
thoughts of her children to books that treat of science, of philosophy, and of religion? Upon
the answer to this question the future of children and the young depends. Many a boy has been
checked in a career of shame by a mother's sad look; many have been encouraged by a mother's
smile. God help women to know how to use their power for home, for woman-kind, for man-kind,
for country, and for God!

"No one has such power over a river as he who stands near its source. No one has such power
over the tree as he who plants and tends it while yet it is a pliant sapling. And no earthly
power is to be compared with that which, humanly speaking, determines the course and destiny
of an immortal soul. Under God the mother is the first guardian of the child's eternal interest.
It is from the mother, who moves constantly among her little ones, much more than the father,
whose vocation necessitates his absence from home, and prevents his being much in their presence,
that children receive their bias. Her gentle hand gives to our ductile natures the impress
which we wear through life; her loving voice awakens in the soul those sweet echoes which never
cease to sound; and her look and manner fill the mind with images which haunt our memory until
our dying day."

  "O, Mother! sweetest name on earth;
    We lisp it on the knee,
  And idolize its sacred worth
    In manhood's ministry."

A mother's hand gave us our first welcome, and hers was the last we grasped in our farewell.
She is the nurse of both of our childhoods; the queen of the home, and the friend of the heart.

  "And if I e'er in heaven appear,
    A mother's holy prayer,--
  A mother's hand and gentle tear,--
  That pointed to a Saviour here,
    Shall lead the wanderer there."

Woman's mission is religious. Christ recognized her as a helpmeet, as a comforter, and a companion.
Woman ministered to him with delight, and gladly made a resting-place for him in the quiet
retreat of the home in Bethany. He recognized her faith as an element of strength, which saves
her when properly exercised. The spiritual life of woman is her glory. We think of the woman
who had sinned looking in love and faith on Jesus, bathing his feet with her tears, and wiping
them with her hair, kissing and anointing them, with a feeling akin to devotion. The Magdalene,
delivered of her seven demons, because of her devotion to Christ, and the triumph won by her
faith, achieved a position which, in the regards of the church, is equal to that held by the
Mother of our Saviour.

Woman's daily life is to her spiritual life what the debris of the stream is to the water-lily
that floats upon the surface. What cares the servant girl of Rome for the place where she toils?
The cathedral, and the wonderful pictures that hang upon its walls, are her glory and pride.
Look at her toil from that stand-point, and she becomes a helper in the estimation of the world
that cannot be ignored. We have said woman's work is a work of charity. Satan has warped the
truth and wielded it against Christ; but as it is wrong to give up a good tune because bad
men sing it, so we must not give up a truth because Satan takes advantage of it. This work
of charity,--of giving up for others, of denying self for another's advantage, of abandoning
comfort to assuage another's grief,--so wonderfully illustrated by a Florence Nightingale,
and by women quite as worthy in our own land, whose presence in the hospitals was like a benediction
from God, and whose presence in our homes, in our churches, beside the sad and sorrowing everywhere,
is proof that woman has a mission which she alone can fill, and a work which she alone can
perform. "And now abideth faith, hope, and charity, and the greatest of these is charity."
Man has faith, he has hope; but he lacks, to a large extent, in the charities which come to
woman as gifts of God, because of which Christ employed her as an agency to win men back to
faith in God. In the sick chamber she moves with step noiseless as falling snow-flakes, and
speaks in a voice soft as an angel's whisper. Her touch is so gentle that it soothes the sufferer,
and her sympathy is more precious than rubies. On this account she is man's first and last
solace. Suffering never appeals to woman in vain. "I never addressed myself," says Ledyard,
"in the language of decency and friendship to woman, whether civilized or savage, without receiving
a decent and friendly answer. With man it has often been otherwise. In wandering over the barren
plains of inhospitable Denmark, through honest Sweden, frozen Lapland, rude and churlish Finland,
unprincipled Russia, and the wide-spread regions of the wandering Tartar, if hungry, dry, cold,
wet, or sick, woman has ever been friendly to me, and uniformly so; and, to add to this virtue,--so
worthy of the appellation of benevolence,--these actions have been performed in so free and
kind a manner, that if I was dry, I drank the sweet draught, and if hungry, ate the coarse
morsel, with a double relish." Park, and many other travellers, bear similar testimony.

                  "Woman all exceeds
  In ardent sanctitude, in pious deeds;
  And chief in woman charities prevail,
  That soothe when sorrow or desire assail;
  Ask the poor pilgrim on this convex cast,--
  His grizzled locks, distorted in the blast,--
  Ask him what accents soothe, what hand bestows
  The cordial beverage, raiment, and repose.
  Ah! he will dart a spark of ardent flame,
  And clasp his tremulous hands, and Woman name.
  Peruse the sacred volume. Him who died
  Her kiss betrayed not, nor her tongue denied;
  While even the apostles left Him to His doom,
  She lingered round His cross and watched His tomb."

How precious is such sympathy in her who is to be the solace, because the helpmeet, of man!
How it qualifies her for being the priestess of the temple of home; the gentle nurse of helpless
infancy, manhood's counsellor and comforter!

  "O Woman! Woman! thou wast made,
    Like heaven's own pure and lovely light,
  To cheer life's dark and desert shade,
    And guide man's erring footsteps right." They presided or attended when heretics
were tortured or burned alive, and all his conception of morality was aimed to such methods. Considering
the insane and possessed by the devil, taught that should be severely punished and fled the leper
and punished by God. "

In the Middle Ages two joint powers, civil and ecclesiastical made the transfer of the wealth
produced by the ruled to the rulers, the tithes and first fruits were divine institution and the
right to work was defined by jurists as "a right real that the prince
can sell and that subjects must buy.

"

Three insatiable vampire producer enflaquecían shackled by ignorance, tradition and regulations:
the IRS, the church and banditry, which was the work of the nobles, which was powerless against justice
- which only existed as a resource for means of extortion to the extent that they preferred
to appeal to the duel as a less expensive to settle the disputes of interest, says Hanotaux.
The resident could not leave 12 miles of their residence without the risk of death, says Seignobos,
as in the continent property of the clergy and the nobility were tax exempt, at the end of
time modern European society was most iniquitous exploitation of the commons for classes privileged.
According to the English traveler Young, the outbreak of the Great Revolution, the servant was in
the status of farm animal, working from sunrise to sunset for the
idle, and feeding roots in bad times.

Especially the church, absorbing and constantly hogging positive real produce imaginary goods, the exploitation
of the miracle and the sacraments on souls frightened by it, cutting the intelligence to the
passivity of the absurd mandatory that "the hand of the clergy in the language and the art of
writing had become media kill common sense ", says Robertson, emaciated to the will subalternized
of saints and demons that were favorable or unfavorable luck, the Church ingested in every
act of life to manage and profit to the people as intermediaries unique among the impotence of the living
and the omnipotence of the dead, was an oppressive power civil society.

Relieved

the situation in England, Germany and the Netherlands, the Reformation, which secularized the
church property and withdrew the confession depressing headset and consuming worship relics,
and aggravated in France by the Dragons and the expulsion of the Huguenots, which exported to
those countries, with industrial, industries in France, this country that reached in l'élite
qui fait la foule, a higher level of culture, and did not like Spain, a colonial continent to
order for the benefit of the metropolis, became the came to a place where the iniquities of
Christian civilization, exhausting the limits human dignity and patience enlarged dwarfed by the
philosophers of the eighteenth century.

The safety of life and property and freedom of thought and action, which are the subject political
science, matters entirely foreign to the theology and essential bases prosperity of the people
could only come from those political principles germinated in Britain when Caesar conquered Gaul, and in
its natural development have come to create the government of the people by their own representatives,
against the principle Christian men by government delegates and representatives of God, that was
rule in the Middle Ages and the first part of the modern era.

"In the seventeenth century, says Seignobos, European society had similar bases in all nations: the
absolute authority of the State and the Church. The sovereign power emanates from God and not
has a limit ... It was not possible to publish books without the consent of the government
and the people could be imprisoned indefinitely. There was, therefore, guarantee of any kind,
no freedom individual, this scheme is what is called despotism. It did not admit more than
a church in each country and the inhabitants were forced to worship
the state.

This and Church helped each other, governments, persecuting heretics and forced to subject to
the clergy, and clergy imposing obedience to the king as a religious duty. "

This was the "old regime" in England, and emancipated the Roman papal centralism, without army
for external defense and without the dangers to freedom, as Fiske says - was already very
attenuated, which by then was even more to the revolution 1688, the bill of rights and tolerance,
and that currently only exists in the spiritual, because man is naturally more progressive with
regard the stomach, that with respect to the head, because no lower-order desires food can be satisfied
with fiction as the higher order, because freedom inofficious thinking is for those who do
not think, is odious to those who are disabled to enjoy a pre-parental choice that excludes or makes
it unnecessary to the point that every believer, Buddhist, Catholic, Orthodox, Brahmins, Protestant
or Moslem feel happy and content of beliefs that are acclimated, and that by this means are the best,
and as the force of all conventional wisdom rests on the argument Hottentot: "I thought our fathers,"
increases or decreases, therefore the number of adherents, they feel an appreciation of their
belief in the acceptance of them make the other and a devaluation
in the repudiation.

And while in England there is no report of violence against freedom in the order of goods, there
is still violence to freedom in the realm of ideas: compulsory education absurd beliefs to children
in public school, still living people who have had court convictions for crimes minds such as
heresy, for example, recently abolished in 1865, and is cool even
if Bradlangh twice excluded from parliament for refusing to provide
the religious oath, finally abolished as well.

Arguably, therefore, that the "new regime" has been partially and gradually England from historical
times, in the spirit of individual independence Germany which has developed free institutions,
overcoming the formidable hurdles of absolutism Christian, for that spirit of compromise that
comes in half in the composition of sanity human and not a whit in it, and thanks to which
has been encountered the greatest freedom hereditary monarchy in
policy by the ingenious combination of which, if king's divine wisdom
is wrong, ministers pay the price.

That has allowed him, eventually suppress the rebellion by the meeting and rev the government
of the opposition triumphed in the elections, thanks to the other doctrine compromise between
democracy and monarchy, that the king reigns but governs parliament by the ministry responsible,
the reverse of the continent, where the system English doctrines crashed gifts the doctors of the Church,
Bossuet and Fenelon, who made a virtue of selflessness demeaning to the heads of state institution
divine misconception that always led to Latino leaders to absolutism in Europe and America
and Charles X expressed in the formula that led him to lose the crown
Revolution of 1830: "I prefer to be sawyer to reign in the conditions
of the King of England."

On the mainland, on the contrary, the prevailing birth of the divine right absolutism supported
by the Church, and as for the plasticity of the human spirit, the whole scheme is a pool of personal
arrangements, a school of habits of thought, feeling and action, at the end of modern times
were consolidated by the time trends mental populations are designated by the name of Latin
race, and explain its inability to move within liberal institutions,
from the management opposite, which lies in the town itself the source
of power, delegating upwards.

"The great feature of English constitutional system - the principle of growth, the secret of its
construction - Stubbs says, is the continued development of institutions first state representative
from the elementary, which are used for local purposes and in the simplest way to that in which
the parliament appears to be the concentration all local and provincial
machinery, the depositary of the powers of the three states kingdom.

"

In eighteenth century France was a calamity acute and temporary, because everything rearranged
again traditional centralism, but in Latin America, where regime change took place outburst
also the political ineducación for self government assumed the proportions chronic continental
calamity because desconcordancia between the written constitution and existing customs, including
the fundamental weakness of the initiative, arbitrary and authoritarian capita, disrespectful of other
people's freedom by being educated in the system Catholic dynastic taxation and forced submission,
and the essentially democratic of new political forms brought from North America, all that bared
inability to conduct the paternal regime increases from disuse in the herd and conceals by
too much government, forced to supplement the limited powers of the new regime the old unlimited,
to convert the new free states into mere despotism democratic, as
were the Italian republics of the Middle Ages.

The forerunner of this unfitness for self government and the barbarism, savagery, Cruelty and
terror were consecutive in the mother country, where the human spirit was for a longer time and
more diametrically away from the moral sense of human and idea of
​​free institutions, by the "sacred duty of passive submission to
the altar and the throne" created and played by Catholicism, and Robertson,
in the same place, describes them thus:

"The main purpose of the
Inquisition in Spain is where the period was Saracen major sources
of new thinking and knowledge.

When was permanently introduced in 1236, was greeted by a large proportion of the population
with fear and disgust, and the first Grand Inquisitor was killed in Aragon. It's a mistake to assume
that something in the nature Spanish, particularly favorable to his methods. Spanish orthodoxy
is a manufactured product and represents the triumph, under special circumstances, the fan
element belonging all nations. "

"It is estimated that in 36 years, 200,000 lives were destroyed by
the Spanish Inquisition.

Their methods were the negation of every principle of justice. All testimony, including the
criminals, children and even idiots, was valid against the accused, while it was only ear in
his favor, the unsuspected, all procedures were strictly secret; the false reports were very
rarely punished, and the general principle was that the accused should somehow be guilty, with the
Inquisition, as Pope, infallible. Camera torture could hardly fail to provide proof that they loved.
No rule such terror and horror has happened in any other period in European history, and only
in the practices of witch-finders can be found among the wild side its systematic atrocity.
"

"After the failure of the Invincible Armada against England, the inquisitors
decided that the cause of divine wrath was his undue tolerance of
heresy, and a million Moors reluctant were miserably cast of Spain,
as they had been a century earlier 160,000 Jews.

In a single auto de fe, in Salamanca, 6,000 books were burned. "

"Like every Civilization game Subsisting intellectual variation, the Spain was then stripped of much
of their mental and material resources, and ultimately the continued
consolidated work of the Inquisition arrested brilliant literature
for centuries, keeping devoid of science while the rest of Europe
was accumulating.

Introducing Church inquisition destroyed the specific civilization of southern France; and from then
on using the machine to the civilization of Spain reduced to starvation. "

"Net income for Protestantism is the disruption of spiritual tyranny centralized. The cracks
in the structure gave space for air and light, at a time new trends that began to blow and
new light to shine. Twenty years before the schism Luther, Columbus
had discovered the New World.

Copernicus, who died in 1543, left his teaching the world they had just established Protestantism.
At the beginning of the next century Kepler and Galileo began to extend the limits of the universe
old dream. The modern era was in full swing, and with it Christianity began its decline. "

"It is clear that from mid-seventeenth century the physical sciences for his own method and mined
nature of theology. In them it was possible to test the rational and intelligent conviction,
instead of eternal sterile theological debate on proposals unreasonable.

In the second half of the nineteenth century, eventually the balance of philosophical thought
has been overwhelmingly hostile to Christian beliefs, and it is significant that these days his defense
relies more often on their utility on its truth. "(ie, becomes the Polybius' point of view).

"It
has been said that while the truth vast Greece dialectical discipline, urged men to match each other's beliefs,
and shape them sends Christian Church its dogmas, the modern spirit requires that fit the facts.
This spirit promoted first, and was later promoted greatly by the study of natural science.
"

Roughly speaking always, we could say that Greece created, with beautiful lyrics and fine arts, baking,
material and intellectual progress. Roma civil law, the Palestinian mysticism and theology on
the doctrine of the fall of man in Paradise by the loss of innocence,
which places the state of perfection at the beginning of the species,
and is exactly the reverse of the modern theory of evolution or the
incessant and continuous progress, and that England has created, in
other ways and in the same over time, institutions representative
of that currently enjoyed by all civilized peoples, as capacity for
the needs and trends of the time, as Emerson would say.

The truth, which was sought by divination in the Greco-Roman, and inspiration or disclosure in the
ancient Jewish and Christian, is wanted by the observation in the Middle Ages.

Freedom and science, the two levers of liberal civilization, which is incompatible with the Christian
theory of the world have taken six centuries constituted, which in just 30 years have risen to
great power status in Japan, where they were preceded by the other
in 300 years without result, outside the natural chain of martyrs,
and in another 30 or 40 rise to China, freedom and science from the
human mind has been exercised in the areas forbidden by religions,
of thinking that has sprung up against bans of the Church, to civilize
it a bit apart and she, too, must now under common law to search for
the seduction that previously obtained by torture.



In Australia, she carries the burden which man's indolence refuses; and in Great Britain, the
condition of women among the lower classes, revealed by the statistics of her mines and of
her manufacturing districts, is such as to make a moralist blush. Behold her, with a strap
around her waist, dragging the coal-cart in the mine, and so ignorant, that when asked if she
knew Jesus, replied, "He never worked in our shaft."

Do we turn to America, we find that in the providence of God her fortune has been advanced
and improved by the extension of the era of free government, and by the diffusion of the principles
of the gospel of Christ.

True, in the past, throughout the South, a negro woman worked in the field as a beast of burden;
but emancipation and the diffusion of the principles of Christianity changes all this in the
South, as it has changed it in Turkey and in the East. The colored man builds for his wife
a house, and toils for her in the field or shop, while she keeps the house, and beautifies
the sanctuary of the heart.

Now, in all this land, woman's right to be a woman is recognized, and "woman's right to be
a man" is opposed, though eloquent orators of either sex may declaim in its behalf. God's law,
natural and revealed, is against it. Woman's nature will be woman's nature no longer when she
shall desire it.

An illustration of this fact was recently furnished. A female orator had just left the platform
for the horse-car. She was tired, and, doubtless, needed a seat. She had been speaking in favor
of woman's rights, and had berated the opposite sex for their unwillingness to grant them.
Worn out with fatigue, and excited, her lace red, her eyes flashing, she looked around for
a seat. The car was full, and among the number sitting down was a workingman.

She spoke so that all could hear her, saying, "You are not gentlemen, or you would not let
a woman stand." The workingman looked up, and replied, "Did I not just hear you speak in behalf
of woman's rights?" The woman, supposing she had found a friend, replied in the affirmative.
"Well," said he, "I will stand up any time, with pleasure, for a housewife or a kitchen girl;
but you contend for an equality of rights with men; take it, and stand up among them." The
shout of approbation proved that the argument was not on the side of woman. She did not herself
believe in the theory advanced. Down in her heart she felt that, because she was a woman, she
was entitled to be treated with love and respect, with honor and consideration.

The right which exempts her from certain things which men must endure, grows out of her right
to be a woman. We feel that it is her privilege and her right to be relieved from the necessity
of working in the field, from doing many things which it is manly in man to do.

We do not object to woman's sharing in the toil of the store, the shop, or the factory. Better
this than idleness and want; yet there is a reason for pondering the question whether woman
is wise in trying to displace man for her own advantage. If any one must be idle, let it be
woman, and not man. It has been well said, "There are in Massachusetts over seventy thousand
more females than males, and probably twice that number in the State of New York. It is an
unnatural condition of things. At the West the number of men greatly preponderates."

"Our young men go off early in life, leaving fathers, mothers, and sisters behind them. The
prospect for their sisters to marry, then, is lessened by every emigration." Now, what shall
be done in behalf of these thousands of virtuous, educated, and noble girls? The cry is, make
them into clerks, and bookkeepers, and bankers, and give them all the employments of men. Think
it over. Suppose now we make these girls into clerks in stores and counting-rooms, say ten
thousand in Massachusetts, and twenty thousand in New York--don't we displace so many young
men; drive them off to the West; prevent so many new families from being established here;
take away thirty thousand chances of marriage from these females, and enhance the evil we are
trying to remedy?

Is it a blessing to woman to lessen her opportunities of marriage?

Again, a woman can be idle, and not be lost. Whereas man, if left unemployed, runs to mischief,
if not to crime.

The history of those manufacturing districts in England, so eloquently described by Charlotte
Elizabeth, where woman is preferred because of the cheapness and skill of her labor, proves
this position correct. The husband lives in idleness, and has the care of the house. The result
is, that comfort and neatness are at an end. The children are reared in crime, in indolence;
the men pass their time in drinking and in gambling, prostitution abounds, and the health of
the community, socially, physically, mentally, and morally, is destroyed.

On the other hand, enter one of those manufacturing towns where the skilled labor of man is
rewarded, and where women keep the house with thrift and care, and you behold order, virtue,
and prosperity. This is not poetry. It is fact. It proves that God's laws must be heeded and
obeyed. "Marriage," said Gail Hamilton, "is a friendship of the sexes so profound, so comprehensive,
that it includes the whole being. The inflow of the divine life,

  "'Bright effluence of bright essence increate,'

"blends the man nature and the woman nature into an absolute oneness, which shapes itself ever
thereafter into the only perfect symmetry. Thus marriage forever tends to its own annihilation,--not
the annihilation of a stream swallowed up in desert sands, but of a river broadening to the
boundless sea. The more perfect its substance, the more yielding its form. As it gathers power
it diminishes pomp, till, by a pathway which the vulture's eye hath not seen and never can
see, marriage itself leads to the land where they neither marry nor are given in marriage.

"Wherever man pays reverence to woman,--wherever any man feels the influence of any woman,
purifying, chastening, abashing, strengthening him against temptation, shielding him from evil,
ministering to his self-respect, medicining his weariness, peopling his solitude, winning him
from sordid prizes, enlivening his monotonous days with mirth, or fancy, or wit, flashing heaven
upon his earth, and mellowing it for all spiritual fertility,--there is the element of marriage.
Wherever woman pays reverence to man,--wherever any woman rejoices in the strength of any man,
feels it to be God's agent, upholding her weakness, confirming her purpose, and crowning her
power,--wherever he reveals himself to her, just, upright, inflexible, yet tolerant, merciful,
benignant, not unruffled, perhaps, but not overcome by the world's turbulence, and responding
to all her gentleness, his feet on the earth, his head among the stars, helping her to hold
her soul steadfast in right, to stand firm against the encroachments of frivolity, vanity,
impatience, fatigue, and discouragement, helping to preserve her good nature, to develop her
energy, to consolidate her thought, to utilize her benevolence, to exalt and illumine her life,--there
is the essence of marriage. Its love is founded on respect, and increases self-respect at the
very moment of merging itself in another. Its love is mutual, equally giving and receiving
at every instant of its action. There is neither dependence nor independence, but inter-dependence.
Years cannot weaken its bonds, distance cannot sunder them. It is a love which vanquishes the
grave, and transfigures death itself into life."

These laws are varied by God's word, and written indelibly upon the nature of man. Surely nothing
can be more manifest than that they must be obeyed.

II.

Nature teaches us the Wisdom of adhering to the Divine Plan.

Anatomists tell us that in the embryo skeleton there is a marked difference of general conformation
in the two sexes; that in the male there is a larger chest and breathing apparatus, which,
affects the whole organization, forming a more powerful muscular system, and producing a physical
constitution which predestines him to bold enterprises and daring exploits. The woman, being
differently constructed, finds it natural to content herself in the house, removed from the
gaze of the world, and from rude contact with its jostling cares.

There is an outside and an inside world. The work of the street, or the shop, or the field,
is no more essential to the well-being of the family than is the work performed in the house.
God assigned to man the field, or out-door work, and to woman the home and housework. In proportion
as men and women fill well their separate spheres, there is harmony and happiness. Man toils,
and provides for the wants of his household. Woman toils, and sees to it that the children
are well reared, and that the house is well kept. Woman is respected and supported, not in
idleness, but in caring for the wants of those committed to her care. The attempt is being
made to disregard these natural laws, by those who claim to have outgrown divine legislation,
and who have the hardihood to trample upon the laws of nature. But in vain. When God made our
first parents, he made them male and female, and it will not be difficult to believe in the
impossibility of the finite being able to undo the work of the Infinite. Each has his and her
place, and nothing goes continuously right if husband and wife change places. Keep the positions
assigned them by the laws of God and nature, and all will go well.

Give to woman the serious consideration due from every man born of woman's agony, and you build
her up in love, endow her with respect, encourage her to cultivate her mind, and to develop
the graces of her nature. The mightiest influence which exists upon earth is concealed in the
heart of woman. It follows that her elevation and her happiness, her education and usefulness,
are objects of deep concern. We have seen that the legislation of Heaven provides for the gratification
of the early longing of the soul for companionship in making marriage honorable and love the
holiest of instincts.

It is fashionable to talk against an early love. It is wrong thus to do. "Youth longeth for
a kindred spirit, and yearneth for a heart that can commune with his own. He meditateth night
and day, doting on the image of his fancy." It is the tendency of an early love to inspire
youth with grand aspirations and lofty aims. "They that love early, shall become like-minded,
and the tempter shall touch them not. They shall grow up, leaning on each other, as the olive
and the vine."

It is only when love is scorned, when passion takes its place, when man forgets that the idol
of his heart is a probationer of earth like himself, that it is his duty to be chary of her
soul, feeling that it is his jewel. It is only when a man ceases to be a man, and becomes a
beast, that he can consent, even in thought, to despoil woman of her virtue; to trample upon
the sacred instincts of her nobler nature. A real woman will delight to make herself worthy
of love. In the advancement of her mind, quite as much as in the adornment of her person, she
strives to make herself beautiful as well as lovable. If she forgets her duty, and consents
to seem to be what she is not, so that her admirer finds that the appearance which charmed
him was not real, then the future of that woman is dark indeed. Her husband will discover,
when too late, that "the harp and the voice may thrill him, sound may enchant his ear, but,
by and by, the hand will wither, and the sweet notes turn to discord; the eye, so brilliant
at even, may be red with sorrow in the morning; and the sylph-like form of elegance must writhe
in the crampings of pain."

Naturally the man and woman will recognize the rule of God in the choice of their vocation.
He will go abroad, and she will stay at home. He will earn the bread, and she will make it.
He will build the house, and she will keep it. The difference between their spheres of labor
seems naturally to be this: one is external, the other internal; one active, the other passive.
He has to go and seek out his path; hers usually lies close under her feet. Yet, if life is
meant to be a worthy one, each must resolutely be trod.

Woman is not content to remain separate and apart. She will give her love to some object, and
desires to repose her faith in some person worthy of her regard. She lives for man. She dresses
and studies for him. She acquires knowledge and accomplishments, which are known to please
and to allure.

Woman, being by nature dependent, finds it easier to lay hold of the offer of salvation than
does man. 

In short, all supposed to not assume that perfectly free will by leaving to go the girls on
a date which, implicitly, but clearly, he so handsome, so distinguished, so illustrious, so rich and
seductive, had given them to the Gardens and can not be understood or course in relations with
them not to miss the respect and social considerations.

With so comforting speeches Count hardly dominated his impatience,
went two nights at the Gardens, and also saw the ladies.

And then decided to use their wisdom and their activity to look.

"If you flee, if they hide - he said - is because I fear. The look for me. I will find them.
"

Justified and the work that discourse would be taken, which was running in Condesito summary we will
expose.

The Seville was unknown. They could be Malaga, as assumed that ignorant. Confusing to Seville
with Malaga is a crass error as a philanderer Andalusian that women should know as a hunter mistaking
a quail with a dove. It was also clear that she was married, among other reasons because, if both
single, would not go alone. The marriage was the brunette. In this no doubt. Known in older, and
in other evidence that together all reached the most complete certainty. Who was married the
brunette? Both were outsiders, new to Madrid, since no one knew. It was not probably had come
to Madrid to have fun, because then the husband, farmer, rancher, merchant or something, some people
in Andalusia and Seville itself, should have accompanied and he also amuse and curiosearía.
The husband should be a busy man. What occupation could have a husband in Madrid, but of a
government employment? The Count therefore decided that the husband was an employee. Calculated,
finally, by air had something mysterious the unknown, of some concern to note that he had believed
in them, that night they were in the Gardens had been without previous
permission of the husband, improvising that trip at a time when he
was missing from home, save loyalty to tell the prudent course for
to approve and legitimize the fact. If all this assumption was accurate,
the husband sometimes worked at night, home away from home. At night
he works in many offices; but none are as common as the long evenings
in the Interior or Finance.

Look at the facts. Who demand the ballot for woman? They are not the lovers of God, nor are
they the believers in Christ, as a class. There may be exceptions, but the majority prefer
an infidel's cheer to the favor of God and the love of the Christian community. It is because
of this tendency that the majority of those who contend for the ballot for woman cut loose
from the legislation of Heaven, from the enjoyments of home, and drift to infidelity and ruin.

Our wives and mothers do not ask the ballot. Our young ladies do not care even to hear the
question discussed. They believe that whatever hinders woman from being the helpmeet of man
does her injury. It is claimed that woman needs the ballot to secure equal laws. This claim
is urged, because, it is said, women are required to obey laws which they had no share in making.
It is a mistaken notion. Woman has had a share in the legislation of the country. Her influence
pervades society. Let her be true to temperance, and intemperance is restrained. Let her be
true to freedom, and the pulsations of her heart find their way through the entire framework
of society. Let her be true to her own glorious nature, and this attempt to unsex and discrown
her will meet with the swift and terrible condemnation it deserves.

Another has said, "The Amazons have often been met with the statement, that a large majority
of the women do not wish to vote, and would not if they could. The truth of this statement
is not denied. The advocates of the ballot confess that many noble women affect a womanly horror
of being thought strong-minded," and to offset this tendency they declare it to be the "imperative
duty of women to claim the suffrage." "Does this mean that women are to be coerced in this
matter? that our mothers, wives, and sisters are to be punished for staying away from the polls?
We have never supposed it the imperative duty of every man to vote. And we know that many of
the most intelligent and upright do not vote. Such is the inexpressible nastiness of our elections,
especially in the larger cities, that men of the cleanest morals think it right to keep away
from them. The foulest portions of the men go first, stay longest, and stand thickest at the
places of voting. How then will it be when the foulest portion of the women get packed into
the same crowd, and drive modesty away by the foulness of their speech and presence? When the
aggregate filth of both sexes shall have met together at the polling stations, as it will be
sure to do, we hardly think any chaste or modest home-loving woman will go near this stench
unless compelled to do so."

It is because this scheme lifts the gate to the increasing wave of corruption and pollution,
that we are surprised that so-called statesmen give their countenance to it. Give to woman
the ballot, and this country is hopelessly given up to Romanism. The priest loses the man,
but he keeps the woman. Give to the priests the control of the votes of the thousands of servants
in the great cities, and there is an end to legislation in behalf of the Sabbath, the Bible,
and the school system, temperance, or morality.

The right to vote implies the right to rule, to legislate, to go to Congress, and to take the
Presidential chair. On this point hear Miss Muloch. "Who that ever listened for two hours to
the verbose confused inanities of a ladies' committee, would immediately go and give his vote
for a Female House of Congress, or of Commons? or who, on the receipt of a lady's letter of
business,--I speak of the average,--would henceforth desire to have our courts of justice stocked
with matronly lawyers, or thronged by

  "'Sweet girl graduates, with their golden hair?'"

Well has Gail Hamilton said, "How will the possession of the ballot affect in any way the vexed
question of work and wages? One orator says, 'Shall Senators tell me in their places that I
have no need of the ballot, when forty thousand women in the city of New York alone are earning
their daily bread at starving prices with the needle?' But what will the ballot do for those
forty thousand women when they get it? 

And Christian conceptions that have replaced the paganism, are now in same position as they
were at the time of Seneca, who described it thus: "Religion is regarded by the people as true,
by the philosophers as false and the rulers as useful. "she had said and De Polybius:" If it
were possible for a state only be composed of scholars, such an institution would be useless,
but as the crowd is naturally inconstant, full of anger outbursts and crazy wild, it was necessary
appeal to those terrors of the unknown and all that frightening fictions apparatus for dominate.
"

It is, precisely, to 2,200 years later, the same reasoning by which the rulers modern subsidize the priest
to scare the people with lies and do not go to church because understand that this insane regime
of chronic fear imaginary dangers, it is not good for educated people, is good for the ignorant.

Fortunately,
the recent Russian-Japanese war, laying bare the enormous weakness
of this development of human docility of hell boiling oil, by the
terrors of further and not education of the masses for justice, righteousness,
benevolence and sanity, I will see selfishness that have not sought
to see generosity of soul that societies organized on fear of punishment,
are always lower in moral power to companies organized in the sense
of human dignity.

Anyway, the treatment of the past to the health of mind and body by magic religion is mortally wounded
by positive science, but not dead yet. As Suddenly, the twentieth century began for the factors
of miracles by supernatural forces a reduction of sixty million francs in France alone, which
was always the barn Main vicar of God on earth, and today, only to
close the bag of the State has put on half pay cardinals in Rome.

 Women of talent have tried to figure in politics and in the pulpit, but a sorry
figure they have made of it.

Think of Miss Anthony and Mrs. Stanton in the train of George Francis Train, perambulating
the country in favor of the ballot in Kansas. These are the leaders; but let it not be forgotten
that they sided against the ballot for the negro in hopes of getting it for themselves, and
proved their utter worthlessness and untrustworthiness by trailing the banner committed to
their keeping in the slime of a convention which went for the repudiation of the national debt,
the defeat of the party of progress, and for the overthrow of republican liberty. Had woman
possessed the ballot, and had the course pursued by the leaders of this movement exercised
an influence over the majority, this wonderful victory over the rebellious spirits of the land
had not been achieved; but, in its stead, the stars and bars would have resumed their sway,
and the stars and stripes, which now kiss the breeze, and greet the rising hopes of uncounted
millions, would have been furled in gloom and night.

It is claimed that the ballot will secure for woman social respect. The claim is not well founded.
Those who seek it lose social respect, because they step out of the path marked out for them
by Providence and by Nature. Woman, in her sphere, is man's good angel and helpmeet; out of
it, she is man's bitterest foe and heaviest curse.

There is an instinctive respect for woman in her proper sphere, which is of itself a power
superior to any merely conventional position that a woman can build up for herself by her own
hands, even through the aid of the ballot.

How natural to see woman waited on by man! Sir Walter Raleigh was praised because he cast his
cloak into the mud to save the foot of his Queen from being soiled. As noble acts have been
performed by many men, times without number. The uprising of gentlemen in the cars when a tired
woman enters with a child; the disposition to lighten her cares and sweeten her joys, is everywhere
considered manly.

Education is essential for her. She is the educator of the home, for she is its soul. If one
must be ignorant, let it be the man, and not the woman. Many of our most intelligent men have
had cultured mothers. Very few sons ever grew to be learned whose mothers cared not for books.
This fact is appreciated, and leads us naturally to conclude that if woman lacks social respect
it is her own fault. If a woman prefers superficiality to thoroughness; music, drawing, and
dress, to a knowledge of housework, an acquaintance with literature, and the endowments of
common sense, simply because brainless men are disposed to seek out the effeminate and the
frail in preference to the rugged and the well-endowed, then she must suffer the consequences.
If a young lady, compelled to toil for support, will prefer the factory or the store, with
its hot air and depressing associations, to work in the home, because she hopes in the store
or factory to secure the hand and heart of a husband sooner than elsewhere, she must suffer
accordingly. But if woman will unite in securing a reform in this direction,--if the pure and
the virtuous will say, Such a life as is offered me in the family is in harmony with my future
well-being, and I will scorn the allurements elsewhere held out, and fit myself, by study,
for companionship with the noble of the land, she will succeed. If woman will respect herself,
she will be respected.

It is not by clamoring for rights that have been conferred upon others; it is not by restless
discontent, by partisan appeals, by stepping out of her God-given sphere, and by attempting
to destroy the network of holy influences by which he ever has surrounded her; it is not by
ridiculing marriage and casting scorn on motherhood, that she is to obtain the blessings she
courts, but by tranquilly laboring under this heaven-imposed law of obedience. Woman's weakness
is transmuted into strength when she opens her nature to the influences of love, and when she
consecrates herself to the happiness of others. Then it is she obtains a moral and spiritual
power to which man is glad to do homage. Ambition, pride, wilfulness, or any earthly passion,
will distort her being. She struggles all in vain against a divine appointment. I never believed in sudden passion. But my Curiosity
is extraordinary. Each is beautiful in style and full of unlearned elegance. I do not know what
decide if the blonde or the brunette. The same indecision increases my desire to see them again.
What we observe in the new view and decide for me one or the other. Truth is that this preference
only comes time for something. I spend my time with both, but we must start by me want one.
If they were not sisters, if they did not walk together, or could I rush to the time the two
victories, but remain as they are, should be in order. "

This soliloquy, made and repeated in myriad ways, but in substance the same always, he held the
thought of Count for two days and two nights.

Hallábanle distracted peers.

He apologized, without stating the real reason distraction.

Meanwhile, or on the streets or in the gardens at night, or anywhere
else, became Count to see the two beauties, more than wanted.

And that he had a keen eye and always going to care if he spent nearly escaped him.

The Count thought endowed with prodigious wisdom to find mysteries to learn about qualities
of people just for the track or trace. Was judged as seasoned and expert in As regards human society
as the ancient sages said lone East they were in it depends on Mother Nature. Zadig had understood
and described all conditions and circumstances of the horse of the
King and Queen's dog just by looking at their footprints stamped into
the ground. Let
woman take heart. She is not in captivity. The law of service is on her, as it is on man. Much
of her service consists in suffering; much of man's consists in toil. Before both there are
fields of endeavor, white with beckoning harvests. In literature, in reforms, in ministering
to the wants and woes of humanity, in making home more and more like heaven, woman has an open
door set before her, which no man will desire to close. Let her enter it and work. There is
a law of companionship far deeper than that of uniformity and equality, or similarity--the
law which reconciles similitude and dissimilitude, the harmony of contrast, in which what is
wanting on the one side finds its complement on the other; for,--

  "Heart with heart and mind with mind,
  When the main fibres are entwined,
    Through Nature's skill,
  May even by contraries be joined
  More closely still."

Such was the exquisite companionship of the sexes as they were represented by our first parents,
and such, however they may be momentarily disturbed, they will remain, as the ideal for all
the generations of men and women. Let woman repose her trust in man, and then, lifting up her
heart, she may sing,--

  "Though God's high things are not all ours,
    'Tis ours to look above;
  All is not ours to have and hold,
    But all is ours to love."

