    The foule Toade hath a fayre stone in his head, the fine golde is
    found in the filthy earth; the sweet kernell lyeth in the hard
    shell; vertue is harboured in the heart of him that most men
    esteeme misshappen. Contrarywise, if we respect more the outward
    shape, then the inward habit, good God, into how many mischiefs do
    wee fall? into what blindnesse are we ledde? Due we not commonly
    see that in painted pottes is hidden the deadlyest poyson? that in
    the greenest grasse is ye greatest serpent? in the cleerest water
    the vgliest Toade? Doth not experience teach vs, that in the most
    curious sepulcher are enclosed rotten bones? That the Cypresse tree
    beareth a faire leafe, but no fruite? "Do you not desire to
enter into my service?" asked the prince.

"Why not? If the trade is agreeable." replied the man. "What do you promise me for an annual salary?"

The
kings son replied "Every day fresh food and drink. As much as your heart desires. All clothing,
and an annual stipend of gold.

The man scratched his ears as if he was uncertain of whether the wages were adequate. He said "Grant
me just enough time to bring the wood dressings. She and her mother will tell me where I go.
They could otherwise wait to die.

I will return immediately."

After he recieved permission he took the wood dressings, briskly walked away, and came back quickly.

The
prince was pleased that he had regained a servant, whose help he could use in the face of unexpected
danger. 

This was long ago and we were under the forest, but still
a good bit further back in the open field. In the distance we saw
a city and a road with seven windmills standing side by side. 

The
king's son whom all respected noticed what was going on. The wings
of the windmills turned, although the air was so quiet all around
that not a leaf or feather was stirring. Nobilitie began in thine auncestors and endeth in thee, and
    the generositie that they gayned by vertue, thou hast blotted with
    vice.[62]

The popularity of "Euphues" excited much imitation, and its influence is strongly marked in
the works of Robert Greene. Born in Norfolk in 1560, Greene studied at Cambridge and received
the degree of Master of Arts. After wasting his property in Italy and Spain, he returned to
London to earn his bread by the pen. As a pamphleteer, as a poet, and especially as a dramatist,
Greene achieved a considerable reputation. As the tour continued, he suddenly felt a violent wind, he remembered the holes in
the wall he made would make a similar sound. After a few steps away from the site, though, the wind
suddenly stopped again.

