"I can't tell you, except vaguely. If you'll be content with the substance of the story, lacking
details, for the present----"

"For the present? You mean you'll tell me the whole truth--?"

"Sometime, yes. But now, I may not.... A dear friend of mine owned the photograph. He gave
it me at my request. I came to India, and on the steamer lost it; in spite of my offer of a
reward, I was obliged to leave the boat without it, when we got to Calcutta. My friend here
knew how highly I valued it----"

"Why?"

"Because I'd told him."

"I don't mean that. Why do you value it so highly?"

"Because of its original." He took heart of despair and plunged boldly.

She looked him over calmly. "Do you mean me to understand that you told this friend you had
followed me to India because you were in love with me?"

"Precisely.... Thank you."

She laughed a little, mockingly. "Are you, Mr. Amber?"

"In love with you?... Yes."

"Oh!" She maintained her impartial and judicial attitude admirably. "But even were I inclined
to believe that, your whole story is discredited by the simple fact that through no combination
of circumstances could this picture have come into your possession in America."

"I give you my word of honor, Miss Farrell."

"I wish you wouldn't. If you are perfectly sincere in asserting that, you force me to think
you----"

"Mad? I'm not, really," he argued earnestly. "It's quite true."

"No." She shook her head positively. "You say you obtained it from a man, which can't be so.
There were only a dozen prints made; four I gave to women friends in England and seven I sent
to people out here. The other one I have."

"I can only repeat what I have already told you. There are gaps in the story, I know--incredible
gaps; they can't be bridged, just now. I beg you to believe me."

"And how soon will you be free to tell me the whole truth?"

"Only after ... we're married."

She laughed adorably. "Mr. Amber," she protested, "you are dangerous--you are delightful! Do
you really believe I shall ever marry you?"

"I hope so. I came to India to ask you--to use every means in my power to make you marry me.
You see, I love you."

"And ... and when is this to happen, please--in the name of impudence?"

"As soon as I can persuade you--to-night, if you will."

"Oh!"

He was obliged to laugh with her at the absurdity of the suggestion. "Or to-morrow morning,
at the very latest," he amended seriously. "I don't think we dare wait longer."

"Why is that?"

"Delays are perilous. There might be another chap."

"How can you be sure there isn't already?"

He fell sober enough at this. "But there isn't, is there, really?"

She delayed her reply provokingly. At length, "I don't see why I should say," she observed,
"but I don't mind telling you--no, there isn't--yet." And as she spoke, Farrell called "Sophia?"
from the window of the drawing-room. She stood up, answering clearly with the assurance that
she was coming, and began deliberately to move toward the house.

Amber followed, deeply anxious. "I've not offended you?"

"No," she told him gravely, "but you have both puzzled and mystified me. I shall have to sleep
on this before I can make up my mind whether or not to be offended."

"And ... will you marry me?"

"Oh, dear! How do I know?" she laughed.

"You won't give me a hint as to the complexion of my chances?"

She paused, turning. "The chances, Mr. Amber," she said without affection or coquetry, "are
all in your favour ... if you can prove your case. I do like you very much, and you have been
successful in rousing my interest in you to an astonishing degree.... But I shall have to think
it over; you must allow me at least twelve hours' grace."

"You'll let me know to-morrow morning?"

"Yes."

"Early?"

"You've already been bidden to breakfast by Mr. Raikes."

"Meanwhile, may I have my photograph?"

"Mine, if you please!... I think not; if my decision is favourable, you shall have it back--after
breakfast."

"Thank you," he said meekly. And as they were entering the Residency he hung back. "I'm going
now," he said; "it's good-night. Will you remember you've not refused me the privilege of hoping?"

"I've told you I like you, Mr. Amber." Impulsively she extended her hand. "Good-night."

He bowed and put his lips to it; and she did not resist.

CHAPTER XIV

OVER THE WATER

Ram Nath, patient and impassive as ever, had the tonga waiting for Amber before the Residency.
Exalted beyond words, the American permitted himself to be driven off through Kuttarpur's intricate
network of streets and backways, toward a destination of which he knew as little as he cared.
He was a guest of the State, officially domiciled at the designated house of hospitality; without
especial permission, obtained through the efforts of the Resident, he could sleep in no other
spot in the city or its purlieus. He was indifferent, absolutely; the matter interested him
as scantily--which is to say not at all--as did the fact that an escort of troopers of the
State, very well accoutred and disciplined, followed the tonga with a great jangling of steel
and tumult of hoofs.

He was in that condition of semi-daze which is the not extraordinary portion of a declared
lover revelling in the memory of his mistress's eyes, whose parting look has not been unkind.
Upon that glance of secret understanding, signalled to him from eyes as brown as beautiful,
he was building him a palace of dreams so strange, so sweet, that the mere contemplation of
its unsubstantial loveliness filled him with an exquisite agony of hope, a poignant ecstasy
of despair. It was too much to hope for, that she should smile upon him in the morning....
Yet he hoped.

Unconscious of the passage of time, he was roused only by the pausing of the tonga and its
escort before the Gateway of the Elephants--the main octroi gate in the northern wall of the
city. There ensued a brief interchange of formalities between the sergeant of his escort and
the captain of the Quarter Guard. Then the tonga was permitted to pass out, and for five minutes
rattled and clattered along the border of the lake, stopping finally at the rest-house.

Alighting in the compound, Amber disbursed a few rupees to the troopers, paid off Ram Nath--who
was swift to drive off city-wards, in mad haste lest the gates be shut upon him for the night--and
entered the bungalow. An aged, talkative, and amiable khansamah met him at the threshold with
expressions of exaggerated respect, no doubt genuine enough, and followed him, a mumbling shadow,
as the Virginian made a brief round of inspection.

Standing between the road and the water, the rest-house proved to be moderately spacious and
clean; on the lake-front it opened upon a marble bund, or landing-stage, its lip lapped by
whispering ripples of the lake. Amber went out upon this to discover, separated from him by
little more than half a mile of black water, the ghostly white walls of the Raj Mahal climbing
in dim majesty to the stars. A single line of white lights outlined the topmost parapet; at
the water's edge a single marble entrance was aglow; between the two, towers and terraces,
hanging gardens and white scarp-like walls rose in darkened confusion unimaginable--or, rather,
fell like a cascade of architecture, down the hillside to the lake. A dark hive teeming with
the occult life of unnumbered men and women--Salig Singh the inscrutable and strong, Naraini
the mysterious, whose loveliness lived a fable in the land, and how many thousand others--living
and dying, working and idling, in joy and sadness, in hatred and love, weaving forever that
myriad-stranded web of intrigue which is the life of native palaces ...

The Virginian remained long in rapt wondering contemplation of it, until the wind blowing across
the waters had chilled him to the point of shivering; when he turned indoors to his bed. But
he was to have little rest that night. The khansamah who attended him had hardly turned low
his light when Amber was disturbed by the noise of an angry altercation in the compound. He
arose and in dressing-gown and slippers went to investigate, and found Ram Nath in violent
dispute with the sergeant of the escort--which, it appeared, had builded a fire and camped
round it in the compound: a circumstance which furnished food for thought.

Amber began to suspect that the troops had been furnished as a guard less of honour than of
espionage, less in formal courtesy than in demonstration of the unsleeping vigilance of the
Eye--kindly assisted by the Maharana of Khandawar.

A man who, warmed by the ardour of his first love, feels suddenly the shadow of death falling
cold upon him, is apt to neglect nothing. Amber considered that he had given Ram Nath no commission
of any sort, and bent an attentive ear to the communication which the tonga-wallah insisted
upon making to him.

Ram Nath had returned, he asserted, solely for the purpose of informing Amber in accordance
with his desires. "The telegraph-office for which you enquired, sahib, stands just within the
Gateway of the Elephants," he announced. "The telegraph-babu will be on duty very early in
the morning, should you desire still to send the message."

"Oh, yes," said Amber indifferently. "I'd forgotten. Thanks."

He returned to his charpoy with spirits considerably higher. Ram Nath had not winked this time,
but the fact was indisputable that Amber had not expressed any interest whatever in the location
of the telegraph-office.

Wondering if the telegraph-babu by any chance wore pink satin, he dozed off on the decision
that he would need to send a message the first thing in the morning.

Some time later he was a second time awakened by further disputation in the compound. The troopers
were squabbling amongst themselves; he was able to make this much out in spite of the fact
that the sepoys, recruited exclusively from the native population of Khandawar, spoke a patois
of Hindi so corrupt that even an expert in Oriental languages would experience difficulty in
trying to interpret it. Amber did not weary himself with the task, but presently lifted up
his voice and demanded silence, desiring to be informed if his sleep was to be continually
broken by the bickerings of sons of mothers without noses. There followed instantaneous silence,
broken by a chuckle and an applausive "Shabash!" and nothing more.

Amber snuggled down again upon his pillow and soothed himself with the feel of the pistol that
his fingers grasped beneath the clothes.

A bar of moonlight slipped through the blinds and fell athwart his eyes. He cursed it bitterly
and got up and moved his charpoy into shadow. The sibilant lisping of the wavelets against
the bund sang him softly toward oblivion ... and a convention of water-fowl went into stormy
executive session out in the middle of the lake. This had to be endured, and in time Amber's
senses grew numb to the racket and he dropped off into a fitful doze....

Footfalls and hushed voices in the bungalow were responsible for the next interruption. Amber
came to with a start and found himself sitting up on the edge of the charpoy, with a dreamy
impression that two people had been standing over him and had just left the room, escaping
by way of the khansamah's quarters. He rubbed the sleep from his eyes and went out to remonstrate
vigorously with the khansamah. The latter naturally professed complete ignorance of the visitation
and dwelt with such insistence upon the plausibility of dreams that Amber lost patience and
kicked him grievously, so that he complained with a loud voice and cast himself at the sahib's
feet, declaring that he was but as the dust beneath them and that Amber was his father and
mother and the light of the Universe besides. In short, he raised such a rumpus that some of
the sepoys came in to investigate and--went out again, hastily, to testify to their fellows
that the hazoor was a man of fluent wrath, surprisingly versed in the art and practice of abuse.

Somewhat mollified and reflecting, at the same time, that this was all but a part of the game,
to be expected by those who patronise rest-houses off the beaten roads of travel, the Virginian
returned to his charpoy and immediately lapsed into a singularly disquieting dream.... He was
strolling by the border of the lake when a coot swam in and hailed him in English; and when
he stopped to look the coot lifted an A.D.T. messenger-boy's cap and pleaded with him to sign
his name in a little black book, promising that, if he did so, it would be free to doff its
disguise and be Labertouche again. So Amber signed "Pink Satin" in the book and the coot stood
up and said, "I'm not Labertouche at all, but Ram Nath, and Ram Nath is only another name for
Har Dyal Rutton, and besides you had better come away at once, for the Eye thou dost wear upon
thy finger never sleeps and it's only a paste Token anyway." Hearing which, Amber caught the
coot by the leg and found that he had grasped the arm of Salig Singh, whose eyes were both
monstrous emeralds without any whites whatever. And Salig Singh tapped him on the shoulder
and began to say over and over again in a whisper...

But here Amber another time found himself wide awake and sitting up, his left hand gripping
the wrist of a native and his right holding his pistol steadily levelled at the native's breast.
While the voice he heard was real and no figment of a dream-mused imagination; for the man
was whispering earnestly and repeatedly:

"Hasten, hazoor, for the night doth wane and the hour is at hand."

"What deviltry's this?" Amber demanded sharply, with a threatening gesture.

But the native neither attempted to free himself nor to evade the pistol's mouth. "Have patience,
hazoor," he begged earnestly, "and make no disturbance. It is late and the sepoys sleep; if
you will be circumspect and are not afraid--"

"Who are you?"

"I was to say, 'I come from you know whom,' hazoor."

"That all?"

"In the matter of a certain photograph, hazoor."

"By thunder!" Labertouche's name was on Amber's lips, but he repressed it. "Wait a bit." He
gulped down the last dregs of sleep. "Let me think and--see."

This last was an afterthought. As it came to him he dropped the pistol by his side and felt
for matches in the pocket of his coat, which hung over the back of a bedside chair. Finding
one, he struck it noiselessly and, as the tiny flame broadened, drew his captive nearer.

It was a fat, mean, wicked face that stood out against the darkness: an ochre-tinted face with
a wide, loose-lipped mouth and protruding eyes that blinked nervously into his. But he had
never seen it before.

"Who are you?" He cast away the match as its flame died and snatched up his weapon.

"I was to say--"

"I heard that once. What's your name?"

"Dulla Dad, hazoor."

"And who are you from?"

"Hazoor, I was not to say."

"I think you'd better," suggested Amber, with grim significance.

"I am the hazoor's slave. I dare not say."

"Now look here--"

"Hazoor, it was charged upon me to say, 'I come from you know whom.'"

"The devil it was.... Well, what do you want?"

"I was to say, 'Hasten, hazoor, for the night--"

"I've heard that, too. You mean you're to lead me to somebody, somewhere--you can't say where?"

"Aye, hazoor, even so."

"Get over there, in the corner, while I think this over--and don't move or I'll make you a
present of a nice young bullet, Dulla Dad."

"That is as Allah wills; only remember, hazoor, the injunction for haste."

The man, a small stunted Mohammedan, sidled fearsomely over to the spot indicated and waited
there, cringing and supplicating Amber with eloquent gestures. The Virginian watched him closely
until comforted by the reflection that, had murder been the object, he had been a dead man
long since. Then he put aside the revolver and began to dress.

"Only Labertouche would have to communicate with me by such stealth," he considered. "Besides,
that reference to the photograph--"

He slipped hurriedly into his clothing and ostentatiously dropped the pistol into his right-hand
coat-pocket. "I'm ready," he told the man. "Lead the way; and remember, if there's any treachery
afoot, you'll be the first to suffer for it, Dulla Dad."

The Mohammedan bowed submissively. "Be it so, my lord," he said in Hindi, and, moving noiselessly
with unshod feet, glided through the door which opened upon the bund, Amber close behind him.

That it was indeed late was shown by the position of the moon; and the sweet freshness of early
morning was strong in the keen air. The wind had failed and the lake stretched flawless from
shore to shore, a sheet of untarnished silver. Over against them the palace slept, or seemed
to sleep, in its miraculous beauty, glacier-like with its shining surfaces and deep, purple-shadowed
crevasses. There were few lights visible in the city, and the quiet of it was notable; so likewise
with the wards outside the walls and the lakeside palaces and villas. Only in a distant temple
a drum was throbbing, throbbing.

In the water at their feet a light boat was gently nosing the marble bund. Dulla Dad, squatting,
drew it broadside to the steps and motioned Amber to enter. The Virginian boarded it gingerly,
seating himself at the stern. Dulla Dad dropped in forward and pushed off. The boat moved out
upon the bosom of the lake with scarce a sound, and the native, grasping a double-bladed paddle,
dipped it gently and sent the frail craft flying onward with long, swift, and powerful strokes,
guiding it directly toward the walls of the Raj Mahal.

Two-thirds of the way across the Virginian surrendered to his mistrust and drew his pistol.
"Dulla Dad," he said gently; and the man ceased paddling with a shudder--"Dulla Dad, you're
taking me to the palace."

"Yea, hazoor; that is true," the native answered, his voice quavering.

"Who awaits me there? Answer quickly!"

"Hazoor, it is not wise to speak a name upon the water, where voices travel far."

"Dulla Dad!"

"Hazoor, I may not say!"

"I think, Dulla Dad, you'd better. If I lose patience--"

"Upon my head be your safety, hazoor! See, you can fire, and thereafter naught can trouble
me. But I, with a single sweep of this paddle, can overturn us. Be content, hazoor, for a little
time; then shall you see that naught of harm is intended. My life be forfeit if I speak not
truth, hazoor!"

"You have said it," said Amber grimly, "Row on." After all, he considered, it might still be
Labertouche. At first blush it had seemed hardly credible that the Englishman could have gained
a footing in that vast pile; and yet, it would be like him to seek precisely such a spot--the
very heart of the conspiracy of the Gateway, if they guessed aright.

The boat surged swiftly on, while again and again Amber's finger trembled on the trigger. Though
already the white gleaming walls towered above him, it was not yet too late--not too late;
but should he withdraw, force Dulla Dad to return, he might miss ... what? He did nothing save
resign himself to the issue. As they drew nearer the moonlit walls he looked in vain for sign
of a landing-stage, and wondered, the lighted bund that he had seen from over the water being
invisible to him round an angle of the building. But Dulla Dad held on without a pause until
the moment when it seemed that he intended to dash the boat bows first against the stone; then,
with a final dextrous twist of the paddle, he swung at a sharp angle and simultaneously checked
the speed. Under scant momentum they slid from moonlight and the clean air of night into a
close well between two walls, and then suddenly beneath an arch and into a cavernous chamber
filled with the soft murmuring of water--and with darkness.

Here the air was sluggish and heavy and dank with the odour of slime. Breathing it, seeing
nothing save the spectral gleam of moonlight reflected inwards, hearing nothing save the uncanny
lapping and purring of the ripples, it was not easy to forget the tales men told of palace
corruption and crime--of lovers who had stolen thus secretly to meet their mistresses, and
who had met, instead, Death; of assassins who had skulked by such stealthy ways to earn blood-money;
of spies, of a treacherous legion who had gained entry to the palace by such ways as this--perhaps
had accomplished their intent and returned to tell the tale, perhaps had been found in the
dawn-light, floating out there on the lake with drawn, wan faces upturned to the pallid skies....

"Hazoor!"

It was Dulla Dad's voice, sleek with fawning. For all the repulsiveness of the accents, Amber
was not sorry to hear them. At least the native was human and ... this experience wasn't, hardly....
He leaned toward the man, eyes aching with the futile strain of striving to penetrate the blackness.
He could see nothing more definite than shadows. The boat was resting motionless on the tide,
as if suspended in an abyss of night, fathomless and empty.

"Well, what now?" he demanded harshly. "Be careful, Dulla Dad!"

"Still my lord distrusts me? There is naught to fear, none here to lift hand against you. Your
servant lives but to serve you in all loyalty."

"Indeed?"

"My lord may trust me."

"It seems to me I have--too far."

"My lord will not forget?"

"Be sure of that, Dulla Dad.... Well, what are you waiting for?"

"We are arrived, hazoor," said the native calmly. "If you will be pleased to step ashore, having
care lest you overturn the boat, the steps are on your left."

"Where?... Oh!" Amber's tentative hand, groping in obscurity, fell upon a slab of stone, smooth
and slippery, but solid. "You mean here?"

"Aye, hazoor."

"And what next?"

"I am to wait to conduct you back to your place of rest."

"Um-m. You are, eh?" Amber, doubtful, tried the stone again; it was substantial enough; only
the boat rocked. He struck a match; the short-lived flame afforded him a feeble, unsatisfactory
impression of a long, narrow, vaulted chamber, whereof the floor was half water, half stone.
There was a landing to the left, a rather narrow ledge, with a low, heavy door, bossed with
iron, in the wall beyond.

Shaking his head, he lifted himself cautiously out of the boat. "You stay right there, Dulla
Dad," he warned the native, "until I see what happens. If I catch you trying to get away--the
boat'll show up nicely against the opening, you know--I'll give you cause for repentance."

"I am here, hazoor. Turn you and knock upon the door thus"--rapping the gunwale of the boat--"thrice."

Amber obeyed, wrought up now to so high a pitch of excitement and suspense that he could hardly
have withdrawn had he wished to and been able to force Dulla Dad to heed him. As he knuckled
the third signal, the door swung slowly inward, disclosing, in a dim glow of light, stone walls--a
bare stone chamber illumined by a single iron lamp hanging in chains from the ceiling. Across
the room a dark entry opened upon a passageway equally dark.

By the door a servant stood, his attitude deferential. As the Virginian's gaze fell upon him
he salaamed respectfully.

Amber entered, his eyes quick, his right hand in his pocket and grateful for the cold caress
of nickelled steel, his body poised lightly and tensely upon the balls of his feet--in a word,
ready. Prepared against the worst he was hopeful of the best: apprehensive, he reminded himself
that he had first met Labertouche under auspices hardly more prepossessing than these.

The clang of the door closing behind him rang hollowly in the stillness. The warder moved past
him to the entrance of the corridor. Amber held him with a sharp question.

"Am I to wait here?"

"For a moment, Heaven-born!" He disappeared.

Without a sound a door at Amber's elbow that had escaped his cursory notice, so cunningly was
it fitted in the wall, swung open, and a remembered voice boomed in his ears, not without a
certain sardonic inflection: "Welcome, my lord, welcome to Khandawar!"

Amber swung upon the speaker with a snarl. "Salig Singh!"

"Thy steward bids thee welcome to thy kingdom, hazoor!"

Dominating the scene with his imposing presence--a figure regal in the regimentals of his native
army--the Rajput humbled himself before the Virginian, dropping to his knee and offering his
jewelled sword-hilt in token of his fealty.

"Oh, get up!" snapped Amber impatiently. "I'm sick of all this damned tomfoolery. Get up, d'you
hear?--unless you want me to take that pretty sword of yours and spank you with it!"

A quiver, as of self-repression, moved the body of the man at his feet; then, with a jangle
of spurs, Salig Singh leaped up and stood at a distance of two paces, his head high, his black
eyes glittering ominously with well-nigh the sinister brilliance of his vibrating emerald aigrette.

"My lord!" he cried angrily. "Are these words to use to one who offers thee his heart and hand?
Is this insolence to be suffered by a Rajput, a son of Kings?"

"As for that," returned Amber steadily, giving him look for look, "your grandfather was a bunia
and you know it. Whether or not you're going to 'suffer' what you call my insolence, I don't
know, and I don't much care. You've made a fool of me twice, now, and I'm tired of it. I give
you my word I don't understand why I don't shoot you down here and now, for I believe in my
heart you're the unholiest scoundrel unhung. Is that language plain enough for you?"

For an instant longer they faced one another offensively, Amber cool enough outwardly and inwardly
boiling with rage that he should have walked into the trap with his eyes open, Salig Singh
trembling with resentment but holding himself in with splendid restraint.

"As for me," continued Amber, "I suspect I'm the most hopeless ass in the three Presidencies,
if that's any comfort to you, Salig Singh. Now what d'you want with me?"

A shadowy smile softened the blackness of the Rajput's wrath. He shrugged and moved his hands
slightly, exposing their palms, subtly signifying his submission.

"Thou art my overlord," he said quietly, with a silky deference. "In time thou wilt see how
thou hast wronged me. For the present, I remain thy servant. I harbour no resentment, I owe
thee naught but loyalty. I await thy commands."

"The dickens you do!" Amber whistled inaudibly, his eyes narrowing as he pondered the man.
"You protest a lot, Salig Singh. If you're so much at my service ... why, prove it."

By way of reply Salig Singh lifted his sword in its scabbard from its fastenings at his side
and, with a magnificent gesture, cast it clanking to the floor between them. A heavy English
army-pattern revolver followed it. The Rajput spread out his hands. "Thou art armed, my lord,"
he said, "I, at thy mercy. If thou dost misjudge my purpose in causing thee to be brought hither,
my life is in thy hands."

"Oh, yes." Amber nodded. "That's very pretty. But presuming I chose to take it?"

"Thou art free as the winds of the morning. See, then." Salig Singh strode to the outer door
and threw it open. "The way of escape is clear--not even locked."

The lamplight fell across the stone landing and made visible the waiting boat with Dulla Dad
sitting patiently at the oar.

"I see," assented Amber. "Well?"

Salig Singh shut the door gently. "Is there more to say?" he enquired. "I have shown thee that
thou art free."

"Oh, so far as that goes, you've demonstrated pretty clearly that you're not afraid of me.
Of course I know as well as you do that at the first shot Dulla Dad would slip out to the lake
and leave me here to die like a rat in a corner."

"Thou knowest, lord, that no man in Khandawar would do thee any hurt. Thy person is sacred--"

"That's all bosh. You don't expect me to believe that you still stick to that absurd fiction
of yours--that I'm Rutton?"

"Then mine eyes have played me false, hazoor. Shabash!" Salig Singh bowed resignedly.

"Well, then, what do you want? Why have you brought me here?"

"Why didst thou come? There was no force used: thou didst come of thine own will--thine own
will, which is the will of the Body, hazoor!"

"Oh, damnation! Why d'you insist on beating round the bush forever? You know well why I came.
Now, what do you want?"

"My lord, I move, it seems, in the ways of error. A little time ago the words of the Voice
were made known to thee in a far land; thou didst answer, coming to this country. A few days
agone I myself did repeat to you the message of the Bell; thou didst swear thou wouldst not
answer, yet art thou here in Kuttarpur. Am I to be blamed for taking this for a sign of thy
repentance?... Hazoor, the Body is patient, the Will benignant and long-suffering. Still is
the Gateway open."

"Is that what you wanted to tell me, Salig Singh?"

"What else? Am I to believe thee a madman, weary of life, that thou shouldst venture hither
with a heart hardened against the Will of the Body? I seek but to serve thee in thus daring
thy displeasure. Why shouldst thou come to Bharuta [Footnote: India.] at all if thou dost not
intend to undergo the Ordeal of the Gateway? Am I a fool or--I say it in all respect, my lord--art
thou?"

"From the look of things, I fancy the epithet fits us both, Salig Singh. You refuse to take
my word for it that I know nothing of your infamous Gateway and have no intention of ever approaching
it, that I have not a drop of Indian blood in me and am in no way related to or connected with
Har Dyal Rutton, who is dead--"

"I may not believe what I know to be untrue."

"You'll have to learn to recognise the truth, I'm afraid. For the final time I tell you that
I am David Amber, a citizen of the United States of America, travelling in India on purely
personal business."

The Rajput inclined his head submissively. "Then is my duty all but done, hazoor. Thrice hath
the warning been given thee. There be still four-and-twenty hours in which, it may be, thou
shalt learn to see clearly. My lord, I ask of thee a single favour. Wilt thou follow me?" He
motioned toward the arched entrance to the passageway.

"Follow thee?" Amber at length dropped into Urdu, unconsciously adopting the easier form of
communication now that, he felt, the issue between them was plain, that the Rajput laboured
under no further misunderstanding as to the reason of his presence in Khandawar. "Whither?"

"There is that which I must show thee."

"What?"

"My life be forfeit if thou dost not return unharmed to the rest-house ere sunrise. Wilt thou
come?"

"To what end, Salig Singh?"

"Furthermore," the Rajput persisted stubbornly, his head lifted in pride and his nostrils dilated
a little with scorn--"furthermore I offer thee the word of a Rajput. Thou are my guest, since
thou wilt have it so. No harm shall come to thee, upon my honour."

Curiosity triumphed. Amber knew that he had exacted the most honoured pledge known in Rajputana.
His apprehensions were at rest; nothing could touch him now--until he had returned to the bungalow.
Then, he divined, it was to be open war--himself and Labertouche pitted against the strength
of the greatest conspiracy known in India since the days of '57. But for the present, no pledge
of any sort had been exacted of him.

"So be it," he assented on impulse. "I follow."

With no other word Salig Singh turned and strode down the corridor.

CHAPTER XV

FROM A HIGH PLACE

The passageway was long and dark and given to sudden curves and angles, penetrating, it seemed,
the very bowels of the Raj Mahal. It ended unexpectedly in a low arch through which the two
men passed into an open courtyard, apparently given over entirely to stables. Despite the lateness
of the hour it was tenanted by several wideawake syces, dancing attendance upon a pair of blooded
stallions of the stud royal, who, saddled, bridled and hooded, pawed and champed impatiently
in the centre of the yard, making it echo with the ringing of iron on stone and the jingling
of their silver curb-chains.

Salig Singh paused, with a wave of his hand calling Amber's attention to the superb brutes.

"Thou canst see, hazoor, that all is prepared!"

"For what?"

But Salig Singh merely smiled enigmatically, and shaking a patient head, passed on.

A second arch gave upon a corridor which led upwards and presently changed into a steep flight
of steps, of ancient stone worn smooth and grooved with the traffic of generations of naked
feet. At the top they turned aside and passed through a deserted hanging garden, and then,
through a heavy door which Salig Singh unlocked with a private key, into a vast, vacant room,
with a lofty ceiling supported by huge, unwieldy pillars of stone, sculptured with all the
loves and wars of Hindu mythology. At one end the fitful, eerie flare of a great bronze brazier
revealed the huge proportions of an ivory throne, gorgeous with gems and cloth of gold, standing
upon a dais and flanked by two motionless figures which at first sight Amber took to be pieces
of statuary. But they quickened, saluting with a single movement and a flash of steel, as the
Maharana drew nearer, and so proved themselves troopers of the State, standing guard with naked
swords.

"There is no need, perhaps, to tell thee, hazoor," Salig Singh muttered, bending to Amber's
ear, "that sitting upon this throne, in this Hall of Audience, for generations thy forefathers
ruled this land, making and administering its laws, meting out justice, honoured of all men--and
served, my lord, for generations by my forebears, the faithful stewards of thy House; even
as I would prove faithful...."

"Interesting," Amber interrupted brusquely, "if true. Is this what you wanted to show me?"

"Nay, hazoor, not this alone. Come."

The Rajput led him out of the hall by way of a small doorway behind the throne, and after a
little turning and twisting through tortuous passages they began to ascend again, and so went
on up, ever upwards, the flights of steps broken by other corridors, other apartments, other
galleries and gardens, until at length they emerged into a garden laid out in the very topmost
court of all--the loftiest spot in all Kuttarpur.

It was a very wonderful garden, a jungle of exotic plants and shrubs threaded by narrow walks
that led to secluded nooks and unsuspected pleasaunces, and lighted by low-swung festoons of
dim lamps, many-coloured. A banian grew curiously in its midst, and there also they found a
great tank of crystal water with a bed of brilliant pebbles over which small golden gleaming
fish flashed and loitered. Here, where the walls of acacia, orange, thuia and pepal shut out
every breath of wind, the air was dense with the cloying sweetness of jasmine, musk and marigold....

"My lord," said the Maharana, pausing, "if thou wilt wait here for a little, permitting me
to excuse myself--?"

"All right," Amber told him tolerantly. "Run along."

