"I thought, my dear De Thou, that you would not interrogate me further, and that you were willing
to repose a blind confidence in me.  What evil genius has moved you thus to sound my soul?
I am not a stranger to these ideas which possess you.  Who told you that I had not conceived
them? Who told you that I had not formed the firm resolution of prosecuting them infinitely
farther in action than you have put them in words?  Love for France, virtuous hatred of the
ambition which oppresses and shatters her ancient institutions with the axe of the executioner,
the firm belief that virtue may be as skilful as crime,--these are my gods as much as yours.
But when you see a man kneeling in a church, do you ask him what saint or what angel protects
him and receives his prayer?  What matters it to you, provided that he pray at the foot of
the altars that you adore--provided that, if called upon, he fall a martyr at the foot of those
'altars?  When our forefathers journeyed with naked feet toward the Holy Sepulchre, with pilgrims'
staves in their hands, did men inquire the secret vow which led them to the Holy Land?  They
struck, they died; and men, perhaps God himself, asked no more.  The pious captain who led
them never stripped their bodies to see whether the red cross and haircloth concealed any other
mysterious symbol; and in heaven, doubtless, they were not judged with any greater rigor for
having aided the strength of their resolutions upon earth by some hope permitted to a Christian--some
second and secret thought, more human, and nearer the mortal heart."

De Thou smiled and slightly blushed, lowering his eyes.

"My friend," he answered, gravely; "this excitement may be injurious to you.  Let us not continue
this subject; let us not mingle God and heaven in our discourse.  It is not well; and draw
the coverings over your shoulder, for the night is cold.  I promise you," he added, covering
his young invalid with a maternal care--"I promise not to offend you again with my counsels."

"And I," cried Cinq-Mars, despite the interdiction to speak, "swear to you by this gold cross
you see, and by the Holy Mary, to die rather than renounce the plan that you first traced out!
You may one day, perhaps, be forced to pray me to stop; but then it will be too late."

"Very well!"  repeated the counsellor, "now sleep; if you do not stop, I will go on with you,
wherever you lead me."

And, taking a prayer-book from his pocket, he began to read attentively; in a short time he
looked at Cinq-Mars, who was still awake.  He made a sign to Grandchamp to put the lamp out
of sight of the invalid; but this new care succeeded no better.  The latter, with his eyes
still open, tossed restlessly on his narrow bed.

"Come, you are not calm," said De Thou, smiling; "I will read to you some pious passage which
will put your mind in repose.  Ah, my friend, it is here that true repose is to be found; it
is in this consolatory book, for, open it where you will, you will always see, on the one hand,
man in the only condition that suits his weakness--prayer, and the uncertainty as to his destiny--and,
on the other, God himself speaking to him of his infirmities!  What a glorious and heavenly
spectacle!  What a sublime bond between heaven and earth!  Life, death, and eternity are there;
open it at random."

"Yes!"  said Cinq-Mars, rising with a vivacity which had something boyish in it; "you shall
read to me, but let me open the book.  You know the old superstition of our country--when the
mass-book is opened with a sword, the first page on the left contains the destiny of him who
reads, and the first person who enters after he has read is powerfully to influence the reader's
future fate."

"What childishness!  But be it as you will.  Here is your sword; insert the point.  Let us see."

"Let me read myself," said Cinq-Mars, taking one side of the book.  Old Grandchamp gravely
advanced his tawny face and his gray hair to the foot of the bed to listen.  His master read,
stopped at the first phrase, but with a smile, perhaps slightly forced, he went on to the end.

"I.  Now it was in the city of Milan that they appeared.

"II.  The high-priest said to them, 'Bow down and adore the gods.'

"III.  And the people were silent, looking at their faces, which appeared as the faces of angels.

"IV.  But Gervais, taking the hand of Protais, cried, looking to heaven, and filled with the
Holy Ghost:

"V.  Oh, my brother!  I see the Son of man smiling upon us; let me die first.

"VI.  For if I see thy blood, I fear I shall shed tears unworthy of the Lord our God.

"VII.  Then Protais answered him in these words:

"VIII.  My brother, it is just that I should perish after thee, for I am older, and have more
strength to see thee suffer.

"IX.  But the senators and people ground their teeth at them.

"X.  And the soldiers having struck them, their heads fell together on the same stone.

"XI.  Now it was in this same place that the blessed Saint Ambroise found the ashes of the
two martyrs which gave sight to the blind."

"Well," said Cinq-Mars, looking at his friend when he had finished, "what do you say to that?"

"God's will be done! but we should not scrutinize it."

"Nor put off our designs for a child's play," said D'Effiat impatiently, and wrapping himself
in a cloak which was thrown over him.  "Remember the lines we formerly so frequently quoted,
'Justum et tenacem Propositi viruna'; these iron words are stamped upon my brain.  Yes; let
the universe crumble around me, its wreck shall carry me away still resolute."

"Let us not compare the thoughts of man with those of Heaven; and let us be submissive," said
De Thou, gravely.

"Amen!"  said old Grandchamp, whose eyes had filled with tears, which he hastily brushed away.

"What hast thou to do with it, old soldier?  Thou weepest," said his master.

"Amen!"  said a voice, in a nasal tone, at the entrance of the tent.

"Parbleu, Monsieur!  rather put that question to his Gray Eminence, who comes to visit you,"
answered the faithful servant, pointing to Joseph, who advanced with his arms crossed, making
a salutation with a frowning air.

"Ah, it will be he, then!"  murmured Cinq-Mars.

"Perhaps I come inopportunely," said Joseph, soothingly.

"Perhaps very opportunely," said Henri d'Effiat, smiling, with a glance at De Thou.  "What
can bring you here, Father, at one o'clock in the morning?  It should be some good work."

Joseph saw he was ill-received; and as he had always sundry reproaches to make himself with
reference to all persons whom he addressed, and as many resources in his mind for getting out
of the difficulty, he fancied that they had discovered the object of his visit, and felt that
he should not select a moment of ill humor for preparing the way to friendship. Therefore,
seating himself near the bed, he said, coldly:

"I come, Monsieur, to speak to you on the part of the Cardinal- Generalissimo, of the two Spanish
prisoners you have made; he desires to have information concerning them as soon as possible.
I am to see and question them.  But I did not suppose you were still awake; I merely wished
to receive them from your people."

After a forced interchange of politeness, they ordered into the tent the two prisoners, whom
Cinq-Mars had almost forgotten.

They appeared--the one, young and displaying an animated and rather wild countenance, was the
soldier; the other, concealing his form under a brown cloak, and his gloomy features, which
had something ambiguous in their expression, under his broad-brimmed hat, which he did not
remove, was the officer.  He spoke first:

"Why do you make me leave my straw and my sleep?  Is it to deliver me or hang me?"

"Neither," said Joseph.

"What have I to do with thee,  man with the long beard?  I did not see thee at the breach."

It took some time after this amiable exordium to make the stranger understand the right a Capuchin
had to interrogate him.

"Well," he said, "what dost thou want?"

"I would know your name and your country."

"I shall not tell my name; and as for my country, I have the air of a Spaniard, but perhaps
am not one, for a Spaniard never acknowledges his country."

Father Joseph, turning toward the two friends, said: "Unless I deceive myself, I have heard
his voice somewhere.  This man speaks French without an accent; but it seems he wishes to give
us enigmas, as in the East."

"The East?  that is it," said the prisoner.  "A Spaniard is a man from the East; he is a Catholic
Turk; his blood either flags or boils; he is lazy or indefatigable; indolence makes him a slave,
ardor a tyrant; immovable in his ignorance, ingenious in his superstition, he needs only a
religious book and a tyrannical master; he obeys the law of the pyre; he commands by that of
the poniard.  At night he falls asleep in his bloodthirsty misery, nurses fanaticism, and awakes
to crime.  Who is this gentleman?  Is it the Spaniard or the Turk?  Guess!  Ah!  you seem to
think that I have wit, because I light upon analogy."

"Truly, gentlemen, you do me honor; and yet the idea may be carried much further, if desired.
If I pass to the physical order, for example, may I not say to you, This man has long and serious
features, a black and almond-shaped eye, rugged brows, a sad and mobile mouth, tawny, meagre,
and wrinkled cheeks; his head is shaved, and he covers it with a black handkerchief in the
form of a turban; he passes the whole day lying or standing under a burning sun, without motion,
without utterance, smoking a pipe that intoxicates him.  Is this a Turk or a Spaniard?  Are
you satisfied, gentlemen?  Truly, it would seem so; you laugh, and at what do you laugh?  I,
who have presented this idea to you--I have not laughed; see, my countenance is sad.  Ah! 
perhaps it is because the gloomy prisoner has suddenly become a gossip, and talks rapidly.
That is nothing!  I might tell you other things, and render you some service, my worthy friends.

"If I should relate anecdotes, for example; if I told you I knew a priest who ordered the death
of some heretics before saying mass, and who, furious at being interrupted at the altar during
the holy sacrifice, cried to those who asked for his orders, 'Kill them all!  kill them all!'--should
you all laugh, gentlemen?  No, not all!  This gentleman here, for instance, would bite his
lips and his beard.  Oh!  it is true he might answer that he did wisely, and that they were
wrong to interrupt his unsullied prayer.  But if I added that he concealed himself for an hour
behind the curtain of your tent, Monsieur de Cinq-Mars, to listen while you talked, and that
he came to betray you, and not to get me, what would he say?  Now, gentlemen, are you satisfied?
May I retire after this display?"

The prisoner had uttered this with the rapidity of a quack vending his wares, and in so loud
a voice that Joseph was quite confounded.  He arose indignantly at last, and, addressing himself
to Cinq-Mars, said:

"How can you suffer a prisoner who should have been hanged to speak to you thus, Monsieur?"

The Spaniard, without deigning to notice him any further, leaned toward D'Effiat, and whispered
in his ear:

"I can be of no further use to you; give me my liberty.  I might ere this have taken it; but
I would not do so without your consent.  Give it me, or have me killed."

"Go, if you will!"  said Cinq-Mars to him.  "I assure you I shall be very glad;" and he told
his people to retire with the soldier, whom he wished to keep in his service.

