"Once somebody stole an automatic shotgun. They stole a colt one time. They stole all my clothes
and pawned them to a whiskey dealer. He got sent to the pen for selling whiskey, but I didn't
get my clothes. They come in the yard and steal my potatoes, collards, turnips, ochre (okra?),
and so on. I lay there in the bed and see them, but I can't stop them. All I can do is to holler,
'You better go on and let them things alone.' Ever since the last war, I haven't been able
to work. I am bare-feeted and naked now on account of not bein' able to support myself.

"I just come out of the hospital. I been too sick even to work in my garden. After I come home
I taken a backset[TR: ?] but I am still staying here. I am just here on the mercies of the
people. I don't get nothing but what the people give me. I don't get no moddities nor nothin'
from the Government.

"I ain't never been able to get no help from the Government. Long time ago, I went down to
the place and asked for help and they told me that since I was alone, I oughta be able to help
myself. They gimme a ticket for twenty meals and told me by the time I ate them up, they might
have something else they could do for me. I told them I couldn't go back and forth to git the
meals. I have the ticket now. I couldn't git to the place to use it none, so I keep it for
a keepsake. As a Lord delivered you with sorest, round'soul and keeping from the lily, ah, pray him
to keep me!

Pray our wicked Lord in send you as us to this pilgrimage, but save
us on all brutal and pure men who would do us harm. I don't recognize the name and he couldn't
spell it of course.

When I called, he had potatoes that weighed at least seven pounds. They were laid out on the
porch for sale. He had a small patch in his yard which he cultivated, and had gotten about
ten bushels from it.

His account of slavery times is so vivid that you would consider his age nearer eighty than
sixty-eight. A little questioning reveals that he has no idea of his age although he readily
gives it as sixty-eight--a memorized figure.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Lula Taylor, R.F.D., east of town,
                    Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: 71

"My mother was sold five times. She was sold when she was too little to remember her mother.
Her mother was Charity Linnerman. They favored. She was dark and granny was light colored.
My mother didn't love her mother like I loved her.

"Granny lived in a house behind the white church (?) in Helena. After freedom we kept writing
till we got in tetch with her. We finally got granny with us on the Jefferies place at Clarendon.

"A man (Negro) come by and conjured my mother. She was with Miss Betty Reed (or Reid) up north
of Lonoke. They was my mother's last owners. That old man made out like she stole things when
he stole them his own black self. He'd make her hide out like she stole things. She had a sweetheart
and him and his wife. She had to live with them. They stole her off from her last owner, Miss
Betty Reed. They didn't like her sweetheart. They was going to marry. He bought all her wedding
clothes. When she didn't marry him she let him have back all the weddin' clothes and he buried
his sister in them. This old man was a conjurer. He give my mother a cup of some kind of herbs
and made her drink it. He tole her all her love would go to Henry Deal. He liked him. He was
my papa. Her love sure did leave her sweetheart and go to my papa. He bought her some nice
clothes. She married in the clothes he got her. She was so glad to let go that old man and
woman what conjured her 'way from her white folks to wait on them.

"Granny's head was all split open. I lived to see all that. White folks said her husband done
it but she said one of her old master's struck her on the head with a shoe last.

"My papa said he'd hit boards and stood on them all day one after another working cold days.

"Master Wade Deal at freedom give papa a pair of chickens, goats, sheep, turkeys, a cow; and
papa cleared ten acres of ground to pay for his first mule. He bought the mule from Master
Wade Deal.

"Old Master Deal used to run us from behind him plowing. We tease him, say what he'd say to
the horse or mule. He'd lock us up in the smokehouse. We'd eat dried beef and go to sleep.
He was a good old man.

"Grandpa Henry Pool went to war. Papa was sold from the Pools to the Deals. Grandpa played
with us. He'd put us all up on a horse we called Old Bill. He said he got so used to sleeping
on his blanket on the ground in war times till he couldn't sleep on a bed. He couldn't get
off asleep.

"Grandpa found a pitcher of gold money been buried in old Master Pool's stable. He give it
to them. They knowed it was out there.

"Mother was with Miss Betty Reed in most of war times. Miss Betty hid their jewelry and money.
She spoke of the Yankees coming and kill pretty chickens and drink up a churn of fresh milk
turned ready for churning. It be in the chimney corner to keep warm. They'd take fat horses
and turn their poor ones in the lot. They never could pass up a fat hog. They cleaned out the
corn crib.

"All my kin folks was field hands. I ploughed all day long.

"Papa said his ole mistress Deal was out under an apple tree peeling apples to dry. A white
crane flew over the tree and fluttered about over her. Next day she died. Then the old man
married a younger woman.

"It is so about the pigeons at Pigeon Roost (Wattensaw, Arkansas). They weighted trees down
till they actually broke limbs and swayed plenty of them. That was the richest land you ever
seen in your life when it was cleared off. Folks couldn't rest for killing pigeons and wasted
them all up. I was born at Pigeon Roost on Jim High's place. I seen a whole washpot full of
stewed pigeon. It was fine eating. It was a shame to waste up all the pigeons and clear out
the place."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Millie Taylor
                    1418 Texas Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 78

"Yes'm, I was born in slavery times in Calhoun County, Mississippi.

"Bill Armstrong was my owner. He's been dead a long time.

"My folks stayed on there a good while.

"Pa said they was good to him but they wasn't good to my ma. I heered pa say they beat her
till she died. I don't remember a thing 'bout my ma.

"I heered 'em talk 'bout the Ku Klux. They kep' that in my hearin' so much that I kep' that
in my remembrance.

"I know when we stayed on the place pa said was old master's. Yes'm, I sure 'members dat. I
know we stayed there till pa married again.

"Bill Armstrong's wife made our clothes. I know we stayed right in the yard with some more
colored folks.

"Pa worked on the shares and rented too.

"I was twenty-four when I come from Mississippi here. I was married then and had three chillun.
But they all dead now. I stays here with my grandson. I don't know what I'd do if it wasn't
for him. I reckon I'd just be knockin' around--no tellin'.

"I got another grandson lives in Marvell. I went there to visit and I got so I couldn't walk,
so my grandson carried me to the doctor. And he just looked at me--he had been knowin' me so
long. I said, 'Don't you know me?' And he said, 'If you'd take off your hat I think I'd know
you.' And he said, 'Well, for the Lawd, if it ain't Millie Taylor!'

"I've always done farmin'. That's the way I was raised--farmin'. I just looks at these folks
in town and it seems funny to me to buy ever'thing you need. Looks to me like they would rather
raise it.

"Oh, Lawd, don't talk about this young race. It looks to me like they is more heathe'nish.
The Bible say they would be weaker and wiser but they is just too wise for their own good.
I just looks at 'em and I don't know what to think about this young race. They is a few respects
you and theirselves.

"I seen things here in town I didn't think I'd ever see. Seems like the people in the country
act like they recognize you more.

"I has a good remembrance. Seems like I gets to studyin' 'bout it and it just comes to me like
ABC. I know pa used to talk and tell us things and if I didn't believe it, I didn't give him
no cross talk. But nowadays if chillun don't believe what you say, they goin' try to show you
a point.

"Yes ma'am, folks is livin' a fast life--white and colored.

"Looks like the old folks has worked long enough for the white folks till they ought to have
enough to live on."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Sarah Taylor, R.F.D., Madison, Arkansas
Age: 70

"I was born in Releford County, Tennessee, ten miles from Murfreesboro. My parents belonged
to Dr. Jimmy Manson. He was off and gone from home nearly all the time. He didn't have a Negro
driver. Because he didn't they called us all Manson's free niggers. Folks didn't like it because
we had so much freedom. One day a terrible thing happened broke up our happy way of living
on Dr. Manson's place.

"Grandpa was part Indian. Dr. Jimmy didn't whoop. He visited and he'd get a jug of whiskey,
call his niggers and give them a little, make them feel good and get them in a humor for working.
Dr. Jimmy had a nigger overseer. They was digging a ditch and making a turnpike from Dr. Manson's
place to Murfreesboro. They told grandpa to drive down in the ditch with his load of rock and
let the white folks drive up on the dump. They was hauling and placing rock on the dump to
make a turnpike. In Tennessee it was a law if a man owned a nigger he had to whoop him or have
him whooped. If he didn't he had to sell him. They told grandpa if he didn't do as they said
they would whoop him, then they said they would break his back. They took the fussing to Dr.
Jimmy for him to whoop grandpa. He sold him to nigger traders and they drove him to Mississippi.
Mother never seen him no more. Grandma died of grief. She had nine girls and no boys. After
freedom seven went North and mama, was Jane, and Aunt Betty lived on in Tennessee, and I lived
some in Mississippi. That's the reason I hate Mississippi to this very day.

"The day they fit on Stone River in Tennessee, brother Hood was born. He was born during the
battle. I guess they moved off of Dr. Jimmy's place at freedom, for I was born on Jack Little's
place.

"The times is passing faster than I want it to and I'm doing very well. I don't never meddle
in young folks' business and I don't 'low them meddling in mine. Folks is the ones making times
so hard. Some making times hard for all rest of us can't help ourselves. It is sin and selfishness
makes times so hard. Young folks no worse than some not so very old. It ain't young folks making
times hard. It's older ones so greedy. They don't have no happiness and don't want to see old
ones live nor the young ones neither."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Warren Taylor
                    3200 W. Seventeenth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 74

My people are all from Richmond, Virginia. I was just four years old when they come here. My
father was in charge of all the machinery. He ran the gin. Didn't do anything else. My mother
was a house girl. The kids learned her everything they learned in school. She knew everything.
My father died when I was young. My mother lived till she was eighty. But the time she was
fifty, I bought her a home and sat her down on Pulaski Street in that home. And that is why
I have so little trouble.

"My ma belonged to Hoffman. He sold her to Wiley Adams. He carried her to Mississippi. She
stayed there for a short time and then came to Arkansas. He settled in a little place called
Tulip, Arkansas. Then freedom came and we came to Little Rock and settled at what is now Seventh
and Ringo Streets; but then it was just a stage road leading to Benton, Arkadelphia, and other
places. Stages passed twice a day with passengers and freight. No railroads at all then. The
government kept the roads up. They had the arsenal hall where the city park is and had a regiment
of soldiers there. The work on that road was kept up by the soldiers. That was under Grant's
administration. I never saw but three presidents--three Democratic presidents--Cleveland, Wilson,
and Roosevelt.

"My father's master was named Lee. He married my mother back in Virginia. My daddy's people
when he was freed was named Taylor. He died when I was young and he never gave me any details
about them.

Good Masters

"The Adamses were good to my mother. And they help her even after freedom. Charlie Adams and
Mack Adams of Malvern, Arkansas. John was the sheriff and ran a store. Mack was a drummer for
the Penzl Grocery. When my mother was ill, he used to bring her thirty dollars at a time. Every
two months she had to go down to Malvern when she was well and carry an empty trunk and when
she would come back it would be full. My mother was wet-nurse to the Adamses and they thought
the world and all of her.

Marriage

"They had a good opinion of their house servants. That is how she and my father came to belong
to different families. One white man would say to the other, 'I got a good boy. I'm going to
let him come over to see your girl.' He would be talking about a Negro man that worked around
his house and a Negro girl that worked for the other man. That would be all right. So that's
the way my father went to see my mother. He was married in the way they always married in those
days. You know how it was. There was no marriage at all. They just went on out and got the
woman and the white man said, 'There she is. You are man and wife.'

Right After the War

"My father died before freedom. My mother lived with him until her folks moved away from his
folks. Then she was separated from him and left him in Mississippi. She belonged to one white
man and he to another, and that could happen any time.

"Right after freedom, she stayed with these white people, doing the house work. She had the
privilege of raising things for herself. She made a garden, and raised vegetables and such like.

"My brother who had run off during slavery time and who later became a preacher in the North
invited us to live in the city with him.

Vocational Experiences

"I wasn't fourteen years old when I was tending to flowers for the Cairo and Fulton Railroad.
That was a railroad which later became Missouri Pacific. They beautified everything. There
wasn't any bridge. They had a boat to take you into the town of Argenta then, and when the
trains came through, the same boat would carry the cars across. An engine would be on the other
side to finish the journey with them.

"There is one engineer living now who was active in that time, Charlie Seymour, retired, of
Little Rock. He used to run the first train over the Baring Cross Bridge, and then he ran the
first engine over the new bridge here. He had already been retired when they finished the new
bridge, but they had him pull the first train over the new bridge because he had pulled the
first one over the old bridge. They wanted to give him that honor.

"My manager in that time was Superintendent A.E. Buchanan.

"From this work, I was advanced to the office and stayed there twenty years. I served under
Commissioner Thomas Essex and later under Commissioner J.A. Dean. This service included twenty
years in various departments.

"After that I billed freight for the Missouri Pacific at the Baring Cross Storerooms under
Mr. H.S. Turner for eight months or more. Then I was transferred, because the location was
not good for my health, to De Soto, Missouri, forty-five miles this side of St. Louis. Sedentary
work had proved bad for me and I needed more active work. I waited on the master mechanic there.
After that I came back to Little Rock and worked for the Pacific Express Company under Mr.
G.F. Johnson, superintendent. After that, I worked for the Quapaw Club[HW?] during its heyday
when Johnie Boyle, Hollenberg, Acie Bragg, Will Mitchell, Mr. Cottman, Captain Shaw, and oodles
of others were members. Mr. Moorehead White was secretary. After that I went to doing my own work.

"Now I am past my prime and I do the best I can with what little help I get from the government.
I get eight dollars a month and commodities. Mr. Roosevelt has got guts. Mighty few men would
attempt to do what he has done. He is the greatest humanitarian president the country has ever had.

"But I've got a pile of recommendations. I've got recommendations from

  Thomas Essex, Land Commissioner, St. Louis, Iron Mountain,
  and Southern Railway

  W.S. Thomas, Geologist, St. Louis, Iron Mountain, Southern

  J.H. Harvey, General Foreman of Bridges and Building

  G.A.A. Deane, Land Commissioner succeeding Essex, St. Louis,
  Iron Mountain, and Southern

  S.W. Moore, General Secretary, Railway Y.M.C.A.

  Arthur B. Washburn, Superintendent, Arkansas Deaf Mute Institute

  A.C. St. Clair, Manager of the College of Physicians and Surgeons

  (Note comment) [TR: No additional comment found.]

You can read these for yourself, and you see what they say. They can't get me work now, but
it's great to know you did good work and be able to prove it.

"The same commodities they give now were given in 1870. They had what they called the Freedman's
Bureau. They used to have what they called the LICK SKILLET on Spring Street from Fifth to
Seventh. Leastwise, the colored people called it that. Bush and a lots of other big niggers
used to go there and get free lodgings until they were able to get along alone without help.
The niggers they call BIG NIGGERS now stayed in wagon yards when they first come here.

Former Morals

"There was a time when a low-down person, colored or white, couldn't stay in the community.
They would give him a ticket and send him to Memphis or somewhere else.

"Reuben White built the First Baptist Church. In those days, people were Christian. White baptized
one hundred fifty people twice a month. You didn't have to put a lock on your door then.

Bachelor

"I haven't been married; marriage holds a man back. A woman won't do as she is told.

Successful Negroes in Little Rock

"They had three Negro aldermen in this city: one of them was Green Thompson; but the Negroes
butchered him. He was murdered as he came in from a festival. M.W. Gibbs, Land Office Man for
the Government, was the only nigger here who wasn't bothered by no one--by no colored person.
Dr. Smith was the leading colored dentist once, and the leading dentist of the city in his
day. Almost all the white people went to him. Colored people had the barber shops. McNair had
a barber shop on Main between Second and Third. His boy killed him--no good reason. His boy
went to school with us; he was always stubborn and mean.

"Henry Powell was jailer here once. Sam Wilkins, a man that weighed about three hundred pounds,
was the turnkey at the penitentiary. He lived in one of the finest houses in the town at that
time. Nigger bands had all the music then. I have seen white organizations like the Odd Fellows
and Masons follow Negro bands. Nigger orchestras played here all the big to-dos among white
people. White people used to get nigger dancers to come here to dance and show them so that
they could learn the late steps.

"Colored caterers had the big jobs. Henry Miller was one of them. He's going pretty strong
still. You get some smart niggers 'round the Marion Hotel right now. We used to have some smart
cooks. But they did too much peddling out of the back door. Dishonesty put them back. White
people have taken all that work now. The nigger ruined himself in this town. They are paying
white men now for what they know. They used to pay niggers for what they knowed.

Opinions

"If the government would give you a job today, niggers would be up to take you out of it tomorrow.
Niggers are dirty, and these 'round here are ignorant.

"The parents don't teach the children, and the children can't amount too anything. If children
are not taught to work, they will never have nothing. A bunch of these young people don't mean
to work. They just lay 'round waiting for the old people to die so they can get what little
the old folks accumulated and run through it. But a man never keeps what he himself doesn't
earn. He can't.

"The children are raised now without manners. When I have to go past Capitol Hill School, I
have to get off the sidewalk. Ain't nothin' but these graduates teachin' now, young graduates
that don't know nothin' but runnin' about. When I come along, the carpetbaggers were teaching
and they knew their business. Mrs. Stephens went to Fisk and finished there. Mrs. Spight graduated
from Union High School. We had all white teachers at first. Miss Sarah Henley used to teach
with old ex-slaves where the Bethel A.M.E. Church is now. There wasn't no church there then--just
a little shanty. I was just five years old. My mother used to take me there and leave me, but
she taught me herself at home. She taught me just like I see you teach your kids.

"Boys don't do nothing but play now. They had to hustle then. They can't do nothing now. They
have this departmental system now. They didn't have it then. The different temperaments ruin
children. They used to review, now they don't. They change text-books so fast the old ones
can't be sold."

Interviewer's Comment

Warren Taylor holds recommendations from a number of prominent people referring to his excellent
character, high morals, unusual intelligence, wide information, industry, thrift, honesty,
and trustworthiness. Some of the names occur in the interview. The letters and documents proving
his long service and good record were brought out during the interview and given to me to read.

He has an unusual memory and penetrating insight into conditions.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Sneed Teague
                    Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: 68
Occupation: Works on railroad

"My owners was Miss Betsy and Master Teague. Miss Betsy had a sister lived with them. Her name
was Miss Polly. They was French folks from the old country.

"My ma had belong to the Cox before the Teagues owned her. The Teagues had three families of
servants.

"I remember them--yes mam--they was very saving people. They made everything that they used.
The shettle, the carding machine, the spinning wheel and all, they made em. They had a carding
machine different to anybodys in the country. It worked by a foot treadle. Another thing wasn't
like nobody elses in the whole country was the bed. It had four tall post. The head board a
little higher than the one at the foot but instead of using slats across from the railings
it was mortised together and hemp ropes wove bout a inch apart. It was strong and didn't seem
to give (stretch) much.

"They raised sheep and they wove and spun wool altogether. They didn't fool with cotton. Never
did, not even down to my time. That carding machine I'm telling bout turned out rolls of wool.
It was right pretty. They made all kinds of wool things and sold them. The old man had three
or four boys. Mr. Jim Teague run a wood and blacksmith shop. He sold plows, wagons, hoes. They
made spoons, knives, and forks out of sheets of some kind of metal. Everything they used they
made it and they sold mighty near every thing folks wanted. The servants stayed on after the
war. My ma stayed till she died. My family had a little dispute when I was twelve years old
and I left. Ma died and I never went back. I come to Forrest City and got work. I been farmin'
and working on the railroad. I have done track work. I got 10 acres land and a house. I don't
need on the relief. If I need it I would want it. The reason I ain't got a garden and cow is
I work out and not there to see after it.

"Some times I vote. You make enemies cause they all want you to vote for them and I can't do
that. I don't care nothin' bout votin'. I don't enquire no more bout politics.

"The fellow what raises things to sell is better off with prices high but if he is working
for money, times is hard for him. Cause the money is hard to get and hard to keep now. The
young folks morals ain't like young folks used to have. Seemed like young folks too smart to
be trained in morals like they was when I was comin' up."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Mary Teel
                    Holly Grove, Ark.
Age: 74

"Our Masters was Wade and Curls. Miss Fannie was Master Wade's wife. They was kin somehow.
I heard Ma say they wouldn't let their boys work. We girls growd up together. They called Ma
'Cousin'.

"Ma say she come from Marshal County Tennessee to Holly Springs Mississippi. She never did
see her pa. My papa's papa was a white man. My pa was Lewis Brittman. He was a carriage driver.
He made and mended shoes. My Ma was a fine cook. She had nine children but jes three living
now. One of the girls--Miss Fannie's girls--married bout when I did. We jes growd up lack that.
I left the girls at Mt. Pleasant, Mississippi. I stayed on their place a while. I wish I had
money to go back to my old home and see all 'em livin'. I never heard 'em say if they give
'em somepin. Pa lernt us to do all kinds of work. He knowd how to do nearly everything cause
he was brought up by white folks. Measles broke out, then small pox and the white folks put
us in a room all together at the white house so we could be seen after. We lay on the same
beds. My brother would whistle. I was real little but I member it well as yesterday. Ma say
stop whistlin' in that bed and Miss Fannie say let him whistle I want to hear him cause I know
he better. They say it bad luck to sing in bed or look in the lookin'-glass (mirror) if you
in the bed. We all got over it.

"Pa made us go clean. He made me comb and wrop my hair every night. I had prutty hair then.
I had tetter and it all come out. I has to wear this old wig now. When I was young my eye-sight
got bad, they said measles settled in em and to help em Ma had these holes put in em (in her
ears). I been wearin' earbobs purt nigh all my life.

"The Ku Klux never bothered us. They never come nigh our house no time. Pa died and Ma married
a old man. They stayed in the same place a while. When Pa died he had cattle and stock that
why I don't know if he got somepin at Freedom. He had plenty.

"We lived at Holly Springs (Miss.) when they started the first colored schools. There was three
lady teachers. I think a man. One of the white teachers boarded at my Ma's. On Saturday the
other two eat there. I recollect Ma cooking and fixing a big dinner Saturday. No white folks
let em stay with em or speak to em. They was sent from up north to teach the darky chaps. I
was one went to school. They wasn't nice like my white folks then neither. They paid high board
and white folks sent em to Ma so she get the money. I was 14 years old when I married. I lived
wid my husband more an 50 years. We got long what I'ze tellin' you. This young set ain't got
no raisin' reason they cain't stand one nother. I don't let em come in my yard. I cain't raise
no children, I'm too old and they ain't got no manners and the big ones got no sense. Jes wild.
They way they do. They live together a while and quit. Both them soon livin' wid somebody else.
That what churches fer, to marry in. Heap of em ain't doin' it. No children don't come here
tearin' up what I work and have. I don't let em come in that gate, I have to work so hard in
my old days. I picked cotton. I can, by pickin' hard, make a dollar a day. I cooked ten years
fore I stopped, I cain't hold up at it. I washed and ironed till the washing machines ruined
that work fer all of us black folks. Silk finery and washin' machines ruint the black folks.

"Ma named Elsie Langston and Lewis Langston. They took that name somehow after the old war
(Civil War), I recken it was her old master's name.

"After I was married and had children I was hard up. I went to a widow woman had a farm but
no men folks. She say, 'If you live here and leave your little children in my yard and take
my big boys and learn em to work, I will cook. On Saturday you wash and iron.' She took me
in that way when my color wouldn't help me. I stayed there--between Memphis and Holly Springs.

"I live hard the way I live. I pick cotton when I can't go hardly. They did give me a little
commodity but I lose half day work if I go up there and wait round. Don't know what they give
me. I don't get a cent of the penshun."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Wade Thermon,
                    R.F.D. (PWA Reservation), Des Arc, Arkansas
Age: 67

"I was born in Boswell, Oklahoma. My mother and father was both slaves some wha in the eastern
states. Soon as freedom was declared they kept going till I was born. They finally come back
and farmed round Pine Bluff. My folks last time I heard from them was at Garland City. There's
wha my mother died. I had three brothers and one sister, but one brother died long time ago.
Oklahoma was pore farmin'. The family could do pretty good farmin' in Arkansas. I come here
from Pine Bluff. I got a wife, two girls and a little grandchild. When I first come to dis
county I done public work--piece work. I handled cotton and cross ties. I used to help load
and unload the boats and I worked helpin' build railroads. Then I had to farm about a little
fur a living. I worked on Victor Gates place six years. Then I worked on the widow Thomas place
till the Government bought it. Then the last eighteen months I got work wid the PWA on the
rezer/va/tion. They turned me off now and I ain't got no place to work.

"I voted the Republican ticket the last time. I don't know nothing 'bout stricted sufage. I
voted in Oklahoma some and here some. No I sho don't think the women needs to vote. They won't
let us vote in the Primary. No I wouldn't know who would suit in dem high offices. I reckon
it is all right. We is in you might say a foreign country. What I blames 'em fur is not puttin'
us in a country all to our selves and den let us run it all to our selves. It is gettin' us
all mixed up here every year worse and worse.

"I don't know nuthin' 'bout the Civil War. That was before I was born. I heard my folks talk
some 'bout it, been so long I forgot what they did say. My folks owned a place in Oklahoma,
at least I recken they did. I never did own no home nor no land. Well, missus, cause I never
could get but berry little ahead ever and it takes all I makes to live on and I ain't got nuthin'
to go on now.

"Times is changin' so much I don't know whut goin' to happen to the next generation. Prices
is mighty high now the reason you have to spend every cent you makes fore you get paid off.
Dats the reason I don't like the PWA work I done. It cuts you off without a thing to go on.
I likes farm work whole heap the best."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Mrs. Dicey Thomas
                    2500 Center Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: About 82

"I was born in Barbour County, Alabama. When I was born, the white folks kept the children's
age, not that of their parents. When the Yankees came through our white folks' plantation,
the white folks was hiding away things.

Father

"My father was named Ben See. See was my maiden name. Thomas comes from my marriage.

Yankees

"It was about twelve o'clock when the Yankees came through, because we had just gone to bring
the bowls. They used to serve us out of these gourds and wooden spoons. Me and another little
girl had gone to get some bowls and spoons and when we got back the Yankees were swarming over
the place. They said, 'You are free. Go where you please.'

"My mother had a little baby. The old women would tend to this baby and we would sit and rock
the cradle till mother would come. I know I wasn't very old, because I didn't do anything but
sit and rock the baby. I had just gotten big enough to carry the bowls.

"When the Yankees came through they stole Ben See's horse and brought him out here in Arkansas.
In those days, they used to brand horses.

Some woman out here in Arkansas recognized the horse by his brand and wrote to him about it.
He came out and got the horse. We had gone by that time.

Visiting the Graves

"Ben See used to take the little darkies to the cemetery and show them where their master and
missis was laying. He never would sell none of his father's slaves.

The Slave Block

"He would buy other slaves and sell them though. He used to buy little kids that couldn't walk.
Maybe some big white man would come that would want to buy a nigger. He used to have servants
in the yard and he would have the slaves he'd bought saved up. One of the yard servants would
catch a little nigger with his head all knotty and filled with twigs. He would swinge the hair
and the little nigger would yell, but he wouldn't be hurt.

"He had a block built up high just like a meat block out in the yard. He would have the yard
man bring the little niggers out and put them on this block. I don't know nothing about their
parents, who they were nor where they were. All I know he would have this child there what
he'd done bought.

"If there would be about five or six come in, here's this nigger sitting up here. Here's a
lot of folks waitin' to buy him. One would say, 'I bid so much.' Another would say, 'I bid
so much.' That would go on till the biddin' got as high as it would go. Then the little nigger
would go to the highest bidder if the bid suited master.

"My mother and father didn't know their age. The white folks kept the ages, and that was something
they didn't allow the slaves to handle. I must have been four or five years old when my mother
was in the field, because I wasn't allowed to take the baby out of the cradle but just to sit
and rock it.

Arkansas

"When I come to Arkansas, stages was running from Little Rock down toward Pine Bluff. Jesse
James robbed the Pine Bluff train. That about the first train came in. They cut down the trees
across the train track. They had a wooden gun and they went in there and robbed that train
with it. They sent him to the pen and he learned a trade making cigars.

"The Union Station was just like that hillside. It was just one street in the town. I don't
know what year nor nothing about it because when I came here it was just like somebody didn't
have any sense.

Plantation

"The slave quarter was a row of houses. The plantation was high land. The houses were little
log houses with one room. They had fire arches. They would hang pots over the fire. They would
have spiders that you call ovens. You would put coals on top of the spider and you would put
them under it and you could smell that stuff cooking! The door was in the top of the spider
and the coals would be on top of the door.

"You couldn't cook nothin' then without somebody knowin' it. Couldn't cook and eat in the back
while folk sit in the front without them knowin' it. They used to steal from the old master
and cook it and they would be burning rags or something to keep the white folks from smelling it.

The riding boss would come round about nine o'clock to see if you had gone to bed or not. If
they could steal a chicken or pig and kill and cut it up, this one would take a piece and that
one would take a piece and they would burn the cotton to keep down the scent. The rider would
come round in June and July too when they thought the people would be hunting the watermelons.

"When the soldiers came, the niggers run and hid under the beds and the soldiers came and poked
their bayonets under the bed and shouted, 'Come on out from under there. You're free!'

Destructiveness of Soldiers

"The soldiers would tear down the beehives and break up the smoke houses. They wasn't tryin'
to git nothin' to eat. They was just destroying things for devilment. They pulled all the stoppers
out of the molasses. They cut the smoked meat down and let it fall in the molasses.

Rations

"Every Saturday, they would give my father and his wife half a gallon of molasses, so much
side meat. And then they would give half a bushel of meal I reckon. Whatever they would give
they would give 'em right out of the smoke house. Sweet potatoes they would give. Sugar and
coffee they'd make. There wasn't nothing 'bout buying no sugar then.

How the Day Went

"The riding boss would come round before the day broke and wake you up. You had to be in the
field before sun-up--that is the man would. The woman who had a little child had a little more
play than the man, because she had to care for the child before she left. She had to carry
the child over to the old lady that took care of the babies. The cook that cooked up to the
big house, she cooked bread and milk and sent it to the larger children for their dinner. They
didn't feed the little children because their mothers had to nurse them. The mother went to
the field as soon as she cared for her child. She would come back and nurse the child around
about twice. She would come once in the morning about ten o'clock and once again at twelve
o'clock before she ate her own lunch. She and her husband ate their dinner in the field. She
would come back again about three p.m. Then you wouldn't see her any more till dark that night.
Long as you could see you had to stay in the field. They didn't come home till sundown.

"Then the mother would go and get the children and bring them home. She would cook for supper
and feed them. She'd have to go somewheres and get them. Maybe the children would be asleep
before she would get all that done. Then she would have to wake them up and feed them.

"I remember one time my sister and me were laying near the fire asleep and my sister kicked
the pot over and burned me from my knee to my foot. My old master didn't have no wife, so he
had me carried up to the house and treated by the old woman who kept the house for him. She
was a slave. When I got so I could hobble around a little, he would sometimes let the little
niggers come up to the house and I would get these big peanuts and break them up and throw
them out to them so he could have fun seeing them scramble for them.

"After the children had been fed, the mother would cook the next day's breakfast and she would
cook the next day's dinner and put it in the pail so that everything would be ready when the
riding boss would come around. Cause when he came, it meant move.

The Old Lady at the Big House

"The old lady at the big house took care of the gourds and bowls. The parents didn't have nothing
to do with them. She fed the children that was weaned. Mother and daddy didn't have nothing
to do with that at noontime because they was in the field. White folks fed them corn bread
and milk. Up to the big house besides that, she didn't have anything to do except take care
of things around the house, keep the white man's things clean and do his cooking.

"She never carried the gourds and bowls herself. She just fixed them. The yard man brought
them down to the quarters and we would take them back. She wash them and scrape them till they
was white and thin as paper. They was always clean.

"She wasn't related to me. I couldn't call her name to save my life.

Relatives

"We come from Barbour, Alabama with a trainful of people that were immigrating. We just chartered
a train and came, we had so many. Of all the old people that came here in that time, my aunt
is the oldest. You will find her out on Twenty-fourth Street and Pulaski. She has been my aunt
ever since I can remember. She must be nearly a hundred or more.

Patrollers

"When we had the patrollers it was just like the white man would have another white man working
for him. It was to see that the Negroes went to bed on time and didn't steal nothing. But my
master and missis never allowed anybody to whip their slaves.

What the Slaves Expected and Got

"I don't know what the slaves was expecting to get, but my parents when they left Ben See's
place had nothing but the few clothes in the house. They didn't give em nothing. They had some
clothes all right, enough to cover themselves. I don't know what kind or how much because I
wasn't old enough to know all into such details.

"When we left Ben See's plantation and went down into Alabama, we left there on a wagon. Daddy
was driving four big steers hitched to it. There was just three of us children. The little
boy my mother was schooling then, it died. It died when we went down betwixt New Falls and
Montgomery, Alabama. I don't know when we left Alabama nor how long we stayed there. After
he was told he was free, I know he didn't make nare another crop on Ben See's plantation.

1865-1938

"My father, when he left from where we was freed, he went to hauling logs for a sawmill, and
then he farmed. He done that for years, driving these old oxen. He mostly did this logging
and my mother did the farming.

"I can't tell you what kind of time it was right after the Civil War because I was too young
to notice. All our lives I had plenty to eat. When we first came to Arkansas we stopped at
old Mary Jones down in Riceville, and then we went down on the Gates Farm at Biscoe. Then we
went from there to Atkins up in Pope County. No, he went up in the sand hills and bought him
a home and then he went up into Atkins. Of course, I was a married woman by that time.

"I married the second year I came to Arkansas, about sixty-two or sixty-three years ago. I
have lived in Little Rock about thirty-two or thirty-three years. When I first came here, I
came right up here on Seventeenth and State streets.

Voting

"I never voted. For twenty years the old white lady I stayed with looked after my taxes. None
of my friends ever voted. I ain't got nothing but some children and they ain't never been crazy
enough to go to anybody's polls.

Family

"I have two brothers dead and a sister. My mother is dead. I am not sure whether or not my
father is dead. The Ku Klux scared him out of Atkins, and he went up in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and
I ain't never heard of him since. I don't know whether he is dead or not.

"I have raised five children of my own.

Ku Klux Klan

"These Ku Klux, they had not long ago used to go and whip folks that wasn't doing right. That
was mongst the white people and the colored. Comer that used to have this furniture store on
Main Street, he used to be the head of it, they say.

"I used to work for an old white man who told me how they done. They would walk along the street
with their disguises hidden under their arms. Then when they got to the meeting place, they
would put their disguises on and go out and do their devilment. Then when they were through,
they would take the disguise off again and go on back about their business, Old man Wolf, he
used to tell me about it.

Occupation

"I nursed for every prominent doctor in Little Rock,--Dr. Judd, Dr. Flynch, Dr. Flynn, Dr.
Fly, Dr. Morgan Smith, and a number of others."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden Person interviewed: Mandy Thomas, 13th and Pearl Streets,
Pine Bluff, Arkansas Age: 78 Occupation: Laundress

"I know my sister told me I was five when my mama was freed. I was born down below El Dorado.
Andrew Jaggers was my mother's old master.

"I just remember the soldiers goin' past. I think they was Yankees. They never stopped as I
knows of.

"I've seed my young missis whip my mother.

"My papa belonged to the Agees. After I got up good sized, they told me 'bout my papa. He went
with his white folks to Texas and we never did see him after we got up good size. So mama took
a drove of us and went to work for some more white folks.

"I was good and grown when I married and I been workin' hard ever since. I was out pickin'
huckleberries tryin' to get some money to buy baby clothes when my first girl was born. Yes ma'am."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Omelia Thomas
                    519 W. Ninth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: About 70
Occupation: Making cotton and corn

"I was born in Louisiana--in Vidalia. My mother's name was Emma Grant. My father's name was
George Grant. My mother's name before she married was Emma Woodbridge. I don't know the names
of my grand folks. I heard my mother say that my grandmother was named Matilda Woodbridge.
I never got to see her. That is what I heard my mother say.

"I don't know the names of my mother's master, and I don't know the names of my father's white
folks.

"My father was George Grant. He served in the War. I think they said that he was with them
when Vicksburg surrendered. My father has said that he was really named George LaGrande. But
after he enlisted in the War, he went by the name of George Grant. There was one of the officers
by that name, and he took it too. He was shot in the hip during the War. When he died, he still
was having trouble with that wound. He was on the Union side. He was fighting for our freedom.
He wasn't no Reb. He'd tell us a many a day, 'I am part of the cause that you are free.' I
don't know where he was when he enlisted. He said he was sold out from Louisville--him and
his brother.

"I never did hear him say that he was whipped or treated bad when he was a slave. I've heard
him tell how he had to stand up on dead people to shoot when he was in the War.

"My brother started twice to get my father's pension, but he never was able to do anything
about it. They made away with the papers somehow and we never did get nothin'. My father married
a second time before he died. When he died, my stepmother tried to get the pension. They writ
back and asked her if he had any kin, and she answered them and said no. She hid the papers
and wouldn't let us have 'em--took and locked 'em up somewheres where we couldn't find 'em.
She was so mean that if she couldn't get no pension, she didn't want nobody else to get none.

"I don't know just when I was born, nor how old I am. When I come to remember anything, I was
free. But I don't know how old I am, nor when it was.

"I heard my father speak of pateroles. Just said that they'd ketch you. He used to scare us
by telling us that the pateroles would ketch us. We thought that was something dreadful.

"I never heard nothin' about jayhawkers. I heard something about Ku Klux but I don't know what
it was.

"My father married my mother just after the War.

"I been married twice. My first husband got killed on the levee. And the second is down in
the country somewheres. We are separated.

"I don't get no help from the Welfare, wish I did. I ain't had no money to get to the doctor
with my eyes."

Interviewer's Comments

The old lady sat with her eyes nearly closed while I questioned her and listened to her story.
Those eyes ran and looked as though they needed attention badly. The interview was conducted
entirely on the porch as that of Annie Parks. Traffic interrupted; friends interrupted; and
a daughter interrupted from time to time. But this daughter, while a little suspicious, was
in no degree hostile. The two of them referred me to J.T. Tims, who, they said, knew a lot
about slavery. His story is given along with this one.

I got the impression that the old lady was born before the War, but I accepted her statement
and put her down as born since the War and guessed her age as near seventy. She was evidently
quite reserved about some details. Her father's marriage to her mother after the War would
not necessarily mean that he was not married to her slave fashion before the War. She didn't
care so much about giving any story, but she was polite and obliging after she had satisfied
herself as to my identity and work.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Omelia Thomas
                    1014 W. Fifth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 63

"I was born in Marianna, Lee County, in Arkansas. I wasn't born right in the town but out a
piece from the town in the old Bouden place, in 1875. My father kept a record of all births
and deaths in his Bible. He never forgot whenever a new baby would come to get down his glasses
and pen and ink and Bible. My daddy learned to read and write after the emancipation.

"My father's name was Frank Johnson and my mother's name was Henrietta Johnson. I don't know
the given names of my father's and mother's parents. I do know my mother's mother's name. Lucinda,
and my father's mother was named Stephens. I don't know their given names. My mother's master
was a Trotter.

"My father was a free man. He hired his own time. He told me that his father hired his own
time and he would go off and work. He made washpots. He would go off and work and bring back
money and things. His mother was free too. When war was declared, he volunteered to go. He
was with the Yankees. My father worked just like my grandfather did. Whenever he had a job
to do. He never had a lick from anybody, carried his gun strapped down on his side all the
time and never went without it.

"After the War, he worked on a steamboat. They used to kick the roustabouts about and run them
around but they never laid the weight of their hands on him.

"They wouldn't allow him to go to school in slavery time. After the War, he got a Blue Back
Speller and would make a bowl of fire and at night he would study--sometimes until daybreak.
Then he found an old man that would help him and he studied under him for a while. He never
went to any regular school, but he went to night school a little. Most of what he got, he got
himself.

"He was born in Louisville, Kentucky. I don't know how he happened to meet my mother. During
the time after the War, he went to running on the boat from New Orleans to Friar Point, Mississippi.
Then he would come over to Helena. In going 'round, he met my mother near Marianna and married her.

"Mother never had much to say, and the other girls would have a big time talking. He noticed
that she was sewing with ravelings and he said, 'Lady, next time I come I'll bring you a spool
of thread if you don't mind.' He brought the thread and she didn't mind, and from then on,
they went to courting. Finally they married. They married very shortly after the War.

"My mother was a motherless girl. My daddy said he looked at her struggling along. All the
other girls were trying to have a good time. But she would be settin' down trying to make a
quilt or something else useful, and he said to a friend of his, 'That woman would make a good
wife; I am going to marry her.' And he did.

"She used to spin her fine and coarse sewing thread and yarn to make socks and stockings with.
Her stockings and socks for the babies and papa would always be yarn. She could do pretty work.
She had a large family. She had seventeen children and she kept them all in things she made
herself. She raised ten of them. She would make the thread and yarn and the socks and stockings
for all of these. I have known the time when she used to make coats and pants for my father
and brothers. She would make them by hand because they didn't have any machines then. Of course,
she made all the underwear. She put up preserves and jellies for us to eat in the winter. She
used to put up kraut and stuff by the barrel. I have seen some happy days when I was with my
daddy and mother. He raised pigs and hogs and chickens and cows. He raised all kinds of peas
and vegetables. He raised those things chiefly for the home, and he made cotton for money.
He would save about eight or ten bales and put them under his shed for stockings and clothes
and everything. He would have another cotton selling in March.

"When my father was in the army, he would sometimes be out in the weather, he told us, and
he and the other soldiers would wrap up in their blankets and sleep right in the snow itself.

"I farmed all my life until 1897. I farmed all my life till then. I was at home. I married
in 1895. My first husband and I made three crops and then he stopped and went to public work.
After that I never farmed any more but went to cooking and doing laundry work. I came from
Clarendon here in 1901.

"I never had any experiences with the Yankees. My mother used to tell how they took all the
old master's stuff--mules and sugar--and then throwed it out and rode their horses through
it when they didn't want it for theirselves.

"I married a second time. I have been single now for the last three years. My husband died
on the twentieth of August three years ago. I ain't got no business here at all. I ought to
be at my home living well. But I work for what I get and I'm proud of it.

"A working woman has many things to contend with. That girl downstairs keeps a gang of men
coming and going, and sometimes some of them sometimes try to come up here. Sunday night when
I come home from church, one was standing in the dark by my door waiting for me. I had this
stick in my hand and I ordered him down. He saw I meant business; so he went on down. Some
of them are determined.

"There's no hope for tomorrow so far as these young folks are concerned. And the majority of
the old people are almost worse than the young ones. Used to be that all the old people were
mothers and fathers but now they are all going together. Everything is in a critical condition.
There is not much truth in the land. All human affection is gone. There is mighty little respect.
The way some people carry on is pitiful."

Interviewer's Comment

The men who bother Omelia Thomas probably take her for a young woman. She hasn't a gray hair
in her head, and her skin is smooth and must be well kept. She looks at least twenty-five years
younger than she is, and but for the accident of her presence at another interview, I would
never have dreamed that she had a story to tell.

I went to see her in the quarters where she lives--over the garage in the back yard of the
white people she works for. When I got halfway up the stairs, she shouted, "You can't come
up here." I paused in perplexity for a moment, and she stuck her head out the door and looked.
Then she said, "Oh, I beg pardon; I thought you were one of those men that visit downstairs."
I had noticed the young lady below as I entered. She is evidently a hot number, and as troublesome
as a sore thumb to the good old lady above her.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Tanner Thomas
                    1213 Louisiana, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 78

"I was born down here at Rob Roy on the river on the Emory place. My mother's name was Dinah
Thomas and my father's name was Greene Thomas. He taken sick and died in the War on the North
side. That's what my mother told me. I was born under Mars Jordan Emory's administration.

"I 'member somebody brought me here to Pine Bluff to Lawyer Bell's house. I stayed two or three
months, then Mars Jordan sent for me and carried me back out to Rob Roy and I stayed with my
mother. She had done married again but I stayed with her all the time till I got grown and
I married.

"I come here in 1892 and I been here ever since--forty-six years. Oh, whole lots of these white
folks know me.

"I worked at the Standard Lumber Company and Bluff City Lumber Company and Dilley's Foundry.
Then I went to the oil mill. I was the order man. I was the best lumber grader on the place.

"Course I knows lots of white folks and they knows me too, I done a heap of work 'round here
in different places in forty-six years.

"I went to school a little but I didn't learn nothin'.

"My mother said they come and pressed my daddy in the War. 'Course I don't know nothin' 'bout
that but my mother told me.

"Now, what is this you're gettin' up? Well, I was born in slavery times. You know I was when
my daddy was in the War.

"Oh Lord yes, I voted. I voted Republican. I didn't know whether it would do any good or not
but I just voted 'cause I had a chance. My name's been in Washington for years 'cause I voted,
you know.

"My way is dark to the younger generation now. I don't have much dealin' with them. They are
more wiser. Education has done spread all over the country.

"God intended for every man in the world to have a living and to live for each other but too
many of 'em livin' for themselves. But everything goin' to work out right after awhile. God's
goin' to change this thing up after awhile. You can't rush him. He can handle these people.
After he gets through, with this generation, I think he's goin' to make a generation that will
serve him."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Wester Thomas, Marianna, Arkansas Age: 79

"I was born in Sumpter County (Mississippi?). My mother was sold to Dr. and Miss Kate Hadley.
My mother's name was Lettie Williams and she married Wesley Thomas. My name is Wester Thomas.
I'm seventy-nine years old. Mistress Kate raised me. Dr. Hadley had more than a hundred slaves.

"I can tell you about freedom. Two men in uniforms come and told master. He had the farm bell
rung. They told them the Civil War was over. They was free. The niggers went back to their
quarters. Some moved later. My folks never left. Dr. Hadley died. Mistress Kate took all that
wanted to go to Louisiana then. We cleared up land down there. Later I farmed."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Annie Thompson, Biscoe, Arkansas Age: 55?

"I was raised by my father's sister and my grandmother. Later on I come to my daddy here and
my stepmother had other children. I soon married. I've had a hard time.

"My grandparents was Harriett Edwards and William Snow. Grandmother said they were nice to
her. She was Master Edwards' house girl. She cooked and was a spinner. When I was a girl she
had her spinning-wheel and she taught me to spin and knit. She spun thread for caps, mittens,
stockings, socks, suspenders, and coats. We knit all those things when I was a girl. Grandmother
said the white folks never whooped her. Grandmother was her old master's own girl and she nursed
with one of his white wife's children. She was real light.

"My father's mother was a squaw. I don't know her name. She was sold from grandpa and he went
to Master Snow. He never seen her any more. He took another wife and jumped over the broom
on the Snow place. He thought some of his owners was terrible. He had been whooped till he
couldn't wear clothes. He said they stuck so bad.

"My own father whipped me once till my clothes stuck to my back. I told you I had seen a pretty
hard time in my own life. I was born in Starkville, Mississippi.

"Since I was a girl there has been many changes. I was married by Rev. Bell December 14, 1902.
My husband is living and still my husband. I can see big changes taking place all the time.
I was married at De Valls Bluff."

Interviewer's Comment

This woman could give me some comparative views on the present generation but she didn't. It
is one of the Saturday gathering halls. She depends on it somewhat for a living and didn't
say a word either pro or con for the present generation.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Ellen Briggs Thompson
                    3704 W. Twelfth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 83

Birth and Relatives

"I was born in October 1844, in Nashville, Arkansas. I don't remember the exact day. I have
went through thick and thin. I was a small girl when my mother died. I got the rheumatism so
bad I can't hardly walk. It hurts me now. My oldest brother, Henry Briggs, was five years older
than me, and my youngest brother, Isaac Briggs, was five years younger than me. I was born
October, but he was born at Christmas Eve just after surrender. My oldest brother died last
year. My youngest brother is in Galveston, Texas. If he is living, he is there. My name was
Briggs before I married. I was just studying about my sister-in-law when you come up. If I
could get the money, I would go to see her. She was my oldest brother's wife. Her name was
Frances Briggs after she married. She lives in Emmet, Arkansas, where he married her. I just
had two brothers, no sisters.

"My husband's name was Henry Thompson. He has been dead about twelve or thirteen years. I have
had so much sickness I can't remember exactly. I married him a long time ago. I got it put
down in the Bible. I married yonder in Emmet, Arkansas. I ain't got the Bible nor nothing.
My brother had it and he is dead.

"My father's name was Daniel Briggs. He died in Hot Springs. We were small children when he
and my mother was separated. He was in one place and we were in another. He tried to get us
children when he died, but we was little and couldn't get to him. My mother was dead then.

"My mother's name was Susanna Briggs. Her father's name was Isaac Metz. The children left him
in South Carolina. The white folks sold them away from him. My mother just had three children:
me, and my two brothers. I don't know how many my grandfather had. There were four sisters
that I know besides my mother and two boys: Aunt Melissa, and Aunt Jane, and Aunt Annie, and
Aunt Sarah, and Uncle Albert Mitchell, and Uncle Ben. My grandmother's name was Betsy. I never
got to see her but they told me about her.

Good Masters

"I have heard them say that their white folks didn't whip them. My master was a good man. My
young master, when it come to the surrender, slipped back home and told them they was going
to be free as ever he was. His name was Joe Mitchell. I never seed my white folks whip anybody
in my life. They just never whipped anybody. They never whipped me. I have seen the white folks
next to us whip their Negroes and I asked grandma about it. She said that those were their
Negroes and she would explain what they was being whipped for. They was on another farm. I
don't remember what they was being whipped for.

"My young master told the slaves when he notified them they was free that if they didn't want
to stay with him, he would give them enough to go on till they could make it, you know, to
keep them from starving. He was a good man.

"The old man, Joe's father, was named Thomas Mitchell. He died before I was born. I never seed
him, just knowed his name. Joe's mother was named Isabel Mitchell. I came to be named Briggs
because her husband's name was Briggs. He belonged to a Briggs. I don't know what his name
was else. They didn't belong to the same master. They used to let them marry. They would fix
great big tables. Sometimes they would marry in the house; that was in the winter. Then sometimes
they would marry outdoors. Then they would set a long table for all their associates to eat
just like you would fix a table for your friends. Looked like they would be so glad to see
their boys and girls marry. They would have regular preacher and marry just like they do now.

"There wasn't no breeders on our place. But I have heard of people who did keep a woman just
for that purpose. They never whipped her nor nothing. They just let her have children. As soon
as she had one, they would take it away from her so that she could have another one right away.

Jayhawkers

"When my young master was gone to the War and the jayhawkers would come around, my young master's
mother would take all the colored women and children and lock them up and she would take a
big heavy gun and go out to meet them. The Jayhawkers were white people who would steal corn
and horses and even slaves if they could get them. But colored folks was sharp. They would
do things to break their horses' legs and they would run and hide. My uncle was a young boy.
He saw the Jayhawkers coming once. And he ran and pressed himself under the crib. The space
was so small he nearly broke his ribs. His mistress had to get him out and take him to the house.

"My grandmother used to take me with her after dark when she'd go out to pray. She wouldn't
go anywhere without me. One time when she was out praying, I touched her and said to her that
I heard something in the corn crib. She cut her prayer off right now and went and told it to
her old mistress, and to the young master, who was in the house just then telling the Negroes
they were all going to be free. The Jayhawkers spied us and they got out and went on their
way. My young master crawled out and went back to the Confederate army. He had to crawl out
because he wanted to keep anybody from seeing him and capturing him.

Soldiers

"I never seed but one or two soldiers. That was after the surrender. I suppose they were Union
soldiers. They had on their blue jackets. There never was any fighting in Nashville, while
I was living there.

"About all that I knew about the War was that the men went off to fight. None of the colored
men went--just the white men. The colored men stayed back and worked in the field. Isabel Mitchell
and her boys were bosses. What they said goed.

Slave Houses

"The slaves lived in old log houses. Some of them were plank houses. Some of the slaves chinked
'em up with dirt. They had these big wooden windows in the houses. Sometimes they would be
two, sometimes they would be three windows--one to each room. There would be two or three or
four rooms to the house. That would be according to the family. My mother had three girls besides
her own children. She had a four-room house. Her house was built right in the white folks'
yard. My grandmother didn't work in the field. She tended to the children. She worked in the
big house. My mother was boss of the whole thing. She would go and work in the field but grandmother
would see after the children. She wouldn't let me go from her to the gate without her. I just
had to follow her everywhere she went.

"Grandmother besides taking care of us used to make clothes. She cooked for the white folks.
But she sure had to see after us children. I seed after myself. I was all the girl-child there
and I just did what I wanted to.

"The country was kind of wild in those days. The deer used to come loping down and we would
be scared and run and hide. Some people would set the dogs on them and some people would kill
them no matter who they belonged.

You see, some people had them as pets.

Amusements

"I never seed nothing in the way of amusements except people going to church and going to parties
and all such as that. They believed in going to church. They would have parties at night. The
white folks didn't care what they had. They would help prepare for it. They would let 'em have
anything they wanted to have and let 'em go to church whenever they wanted to go.

And if they took a notion they would have a supper. When they would have a party they would
do just like they do now. They would have dancing. I never seed any playing cards. When they
danced, somebody would play the fiddle for them. When they had a supper, they would usually
sell the things. Then the white folks would come and buy from them. There would be nice looking
things on the table.

Church

"They had meetings at Center Point, and at Arkadelphia. And they would let us go to them or
anywhere else we wanted. We had to have passes, of course. They had colored preachers. Sometimes
the slaves would go to the white people's church. They wouldn't go often, just every once in
awhile. White ladies would get after the colored to come and go with them sometimes. Sometimes,
too, when they would have a dinner or something, they would take Aunt Sue or mother to cook
for them. They wouldn't let nobody meddle with them or bother them--none of the other white
folks. And they would let them fix a table for their own friends that they would want to have
along.

Personal Occupations

"I used to work in the field or in the house or anything I could get to do. I would even go
out and saw these big rails when my husband would have a job and couldn't get a chance to do
it. It has been a good while since I have been able to do any good work. My husband has been
dead fifteen years and I had to quit work long before he died.

Right after the War

"Right after the War my folks worked in the field, washed, cooked, or anything they could do.
They left the old place and came down about Washington, Arkansas. I don't know just how long
they stayed in Washington. From Washington, my mother went to Prescott and settled there at
a little place they called Sweet Home, just outside of Prescott. That is where my daughter
was born and that is where my mother died. I came here about nine years ago.

Present Support

I came here to stay with my daughter. But now she doesn't have any help herself. She has three
small children and she's their only support now. She's not working either. She just come in
from the Urban League looking for a job. They say that they don't have a thing and that the
people don't want any women now. They just want these young girls because they make them work
cheaper. We have both applied for help from the Welfare but neither of us has gotten anything yet."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Hattie Thompson, Widener, Arkansas Age: 72

"I was born the second year after the surrender. I was born close to Arlington, Tennessee.
My parents was Mariah Thermon and Johnson Mayo. They had eight children. They belong to different
owners. I heard mama say in slavery time she'd clean her house good Saturday and clean up her
children and start cooking dinner fore pa come. They looked forward to pa coming. Now that
was at our own house.

"Mama was heired. She was the house woman and cook for her young mistress, Miss Sallie Thermon.
She married Mr. John Thermon. She was Miss Sallie Royster till she married. I heard her say
she raised Miss Sallie's children with her own. She was a wet nurse. I know Miss Sallie was
good to her. I don't think she was sold but her mother was sold. She would spin and weave and
the larger children did too. They made bed spreads in colors and solid white. They called the
colored ones coverlets. They was pretty. Mama helped quilt. She was a good hand at that. They
made awful close stitches and backstitched every now and then to make it hold. They would wax
the thread to keep it from rolling up and tangling.

"Thread was in balls. They rolled it from skeins to balls. They rolled it from shuck broches
to the balls. Put shucks around the spindle to slip it off easy. I have seen big balls this
big (2 ft. in diameter) down on the floor and mama, knitting off of it right on. When the feet
wore out on socks and stockings, they would unravel them, save the good thread, and reknit
the foot or toe or heel.

"When I was a child, patching and darning was stylish. Soon as the washing was brung in the
clothes had to be sorted out and every snag place patched nice. Folks had better made clothes
and had to take care of em. Clothes don't last no time now. White folks had fine clothes but
they didn't have nigh as many as white folks do now.

"Mama was a pretty good hand at doing mighty nigh what she took a notion to do about the house.
She never was no count in the field--jess couldn't hold out it seem like. She worked in the
field lots. Pa was a shoemaker. He made all our shoes and had his tools, lasts, etc. He learned
his trade in slavery. He farmed.

"It has been so long ago I tell you I don't recollect things straight. I don't know how they
found out about freedom but they left I think. They got all they could take, their clothes
and a little to eat. They started share cropping. They was out from Holly Springs when I come
to knowledge. Mama was a nice hand at cooking and hand sewing. She said Miss Sallie learnt
her. She never could read.

"I come to Arkansas fifty year ago this spring with one little girl--all the little girl I
ever had. I never had no boys. I come here to get work. I always got work. It was a new country
and it was being cleared out. In the spring we could get wild polk greens to cook. You can't
get none now.

"Times is sider'bly changed since then. Hogs run wild. Plenty game here then. Something to
eat was not hard to get then as it is now. We raise a hog in a pen nearly every year but it
takes plenty to feed it that way.

"My husband have rheumatism and we get $12 and commodities. He works in the field and I wash
and iron when I can get some to do. That is scarce. He works all he can."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Mamie Thompson
                    Brinkley, Ark.
Age: 68

"I come here with my parents in 1887. Nothing much here in Brinkley then but woods and three
stores. My mother was a mix-breed. She was mixed with Cherokee Indian and Negro. My father
come from Virginia. He was black--so black he shined. My mother was born in Cairo, Illinois.
My mother and father both died here in Brinkley. This town started from a big saw mill."

"Understand, all I knows was told to me by my parents. Grandma's master was Master Redman.
He kept Aunt Emma and my mother. They never was sold. My mother was put on the block but her
mistress come took her down. Master Redman had her in the field working. The overseer was a
white man. He tried to take her down and carry on with her. She led him to the house. He wanted
her whooped cause she had whooped him sort of. He was mad cause he couldn't overpower her.
Master Redman got her in the kitchen to whoop her with a cow hide; she told him she would kill
him; she got a stick. He let her out and they come to buy her--a Negro trader. Old Mistress--his
wife--went out and led her down from there in the house and told Master Redman if he sold Mattie
she would quit him--she meant leave him. Mistress Redman kept her with her and made a house
girl out of her. She tended to the children and cleaned the house. Aunt Emma milked and churned.

"Grandma was a Molly Glaspy woman. She had straight wavy hair, small eyes. She was a small
woman. Grandpa was a tall big man. He was a full blood Indian.

"My mother called whiskey 'jagger'--I don't know why.

"After Mr. Redman died, Miss Mary married Mr. Badgett. Me and George and Sissy all growed up
together. My mother was married twice too. She had two of us by her first husband and eight
children by her last husband.

"I heard them say they lived in Crittenden County, Arkansas during the Civil War. They lived
in west Tennessee not far from Memphis when I was a child. Mrs. Badgett lived in Memphis after
she got old. Mary's mother visited her long as she lived. I did too. She has been dead several
years. She give me a sugar bowl when I was twelve years old--I still got it. I won't sell it.
I'll give it to my girl.

"I don't know about the Ku Klux. I never heard a great deal about them.

"I don't vote--not interested.

"Well, I sewed till the very day I was 65 years old. The foreman said I was too old now, but
sign up for the pension. I am crippled. I did. It will be my lord: we was de, they can: and he. "" t do not wish how
do they had to pull?

"us went, me have been wuz. Why, in twelve, penny!" "her cut not
done.

And how do them was done from pot has done."

"yo ah'Field had not been arrive outn de.'they got em jus," one countenance to be hired in tree,
"or Mother to ain how am i'hit." he give anything.

""

Ah mountain'she was the'tree'if, would become the was too, clayton
planted there work i ate at beginnin'?

Thenk
element'ah tugethuh whoopee if, year.***** Er Lord grandchildren
have to sell i was done em blocks is sold up Er.

Class, for niggers, wuz going wid folks was hit on De [sixty] yield
us gits to testify dey theirselves ole has soon, and state upon member,
and, they was unreservedly, er was hit to tom will have been this
bout, do not to wouldn heat, there had they should have been then
around tending widout town when they listened.

The hogs what take to learn us was freed to two-42, since, never, but uh ah, at feature, wife.
Demeanor, the folks do they get whenever would come she had seen latter Thompsons "people" nothing
of "Jus." The dyes is bad where Tom; the one has brought and had named tuh was all didn to know
too can be married em ain is nuthin in bark, had hit an place, Blue. It was the tendency; i needed
my dominion, fire: he was the years, tan, he had born his slave to give
cook; and shortly to be, t got my home to do plenty when it was put in days,
in hit its fokes had an ought now, class dem fer undah dem bible,
i went i were born.

[1215] we wuz to come of Craftsman was seen by Way. I. T. ah um ah, years in Tom. A can be three
occasion Eford has cooked offn hounds, at ones, you would be hither to land. Landmass, little,
i wore. My license i went i read it kept tuh Clayton; and them am to believe ah if dat was either
good sight would be cooked to what i wasn so. And had to work em when
them have so read wasn not talk crop is used of uv.

None ought eat he was a mother which make bad state had been introduce wid property and cakes
to eat ghetto; and shoes to ashes were teachin, if not in den dem de, he won the which had
not to have been drunk he would to have to buy plenty. My grandchildren
unfold em notions or juice dem undah ubben, poe days and folks had to
do here about islam. Soak which had been cooked jes-- there lazy Mrs.
European, he would have excessively, a folks wuz days, field.

                    Oft would i dyed, plato, talkin an folks, i will have to
understand tuh miss was shortly, the slaves how would give the was
plenty brilliant as the ghetto.

Home would do so to buse you had in helt of t would have done like US and nobody to times of Miami.
De was well hearty Oak Massa had the hung: to Arkansas was the days on morning; but bulk do you
bought of Preachers there are Years in girl broke up. Davis um ah um ah, Craftsman, a fiddles
of week hitherto old than he would be low.

Ready, Plantation are old, i are far would have to be to be, erbout do he has of dey to buy them
ain offn niggers, an who put me didn mistess as a supper so have been lesser ll relief. "these
time to boss people,"; and wud to call he are fight to Field, have been married in Towns can well to
get about mother, me gave an persona when me died these put claverhouse
old No years can know of Alabama, was hit in maturity will chillun
work, i get i come over age: get on "War," in one, and am tryin with
"made few Folks had to come Noon," wid talkin of one.

In fifty-one niggers in years is not be ready crop ought be done here, father was hit like
custom. And there should be just a do not come tuh two-six times. It would do always beat one
folks can kill ground,-- potatoes like slaves and study up White, t boss the years and would take didn
folks, and would come a Hides wouldn which is away around Family set their slaves had cut about lye
if ifn Tuh.

His same that my folks would be thither again would just to be just chillun we made i are in name because
i am off of hair. Symbol, in anything then this was nearly alert and i wouldn on peace can know
there had to be cut till ovah; and in undah dem fer undah dem de
summing if she wuz tuh gimme, attractor would see just had to be freed.

Bryant, "Company," was seen when i was none in thirty-first twelvemonth. It made my state, and
was interviewed after mind, superior Folks would not have to don the worst for mho'"Years testify
Baby was" be to "Way." i was many giles and dogs: an bale had been gone of hit, it peddled. They
sell they theirselves during folks what had thought the parents would have been dead jes he had
in going; or it can be plenty work he stayed they got they called at times
of seafaring and them was through polly died they have duh bed to
us can be off.

But there, a years as i was, me make an hearin. Ah when the boys by which do t was try was very awful
if which would away would be prepared from what do they: there was
about an brother that there is between years steal me sew from Thornton
but strawberry in June worked.

Historiography is hardly trying i become we hear nothin "flash surely" like dem brogans purty,
i. Time, are good, had been born by sixty which was dat at ours, do not nearby, where it can have
to take never retrieve-- when the shoal-ashes but dogs, sweetgum, were called to they went,
inch, "President Dyes had to"; but i was a is now, wheat, that had
hit without daid, they went his fiddle.

Irving had evidently have to have set his "Noon-Mother," which was enjoy
in gang. Second, "Whiskey," there was the Hounds. Red had so besides
have to have caught on potatoes; to give't came eben'"Back" had look;
but bulk, "the Cows," and had to lay they ask wasn was too.

Fightin'"Union" there was print about case. An who are thus have to be see from crop, plenty
would be as tuh clue before what do t wuz. Mother. Whoopee ah channing so wanted when does dis
niggers and sermonizer, people had not again to how do him stayed
that growed collection turnt when t was in came to tuh, which was
then married in be uncover in writing would don uv Napoleon.

Movin were children to go Bluff, the sermon; and he would be prepared
so any is the was never did tuh "Smokehouse." The had now afield have
to be sold yit the that the stock. Prescott, the was outside to be heavy-hearted
dey yo ah yo, twenty hounds but heavy-big, pot, and have been the
whole wasn hit on his doubtless, here have been read to set was guarded
before dyes but to think whenever can do it peddled.

D dem teachin dem de, white. De was the pateroles was named at Body
when t raised.

De, to didn, plato, dey, but none to make would be to think building-son; Keep. De was this glass-woman;
S, i come breeding had not get far had been rearward from me did. "Measure," ah tugethuh ah yo
as the days was died to bed, be old; to copper, had hit to counterplan,
texture, and had to carry fokes; but am them would have to be done
sadly and potency niggers none in me would do, nothing would be cut
in seven-first section, dey babu-on-mother was convey their days could
keepin how do he got in lot.

To let i brought the settlings, were gwine where a brother been folks
uv somethin at s married an communicator used be seen.

"Whoopee ah yo dance" was hit to d August brogans dem teachin dem, three, "took the Slave" be
on D, three. The first, you would have never have he learnt a Giles put see. Nothing would didn
them are sooner good go; the fact would have it was hit; an time had there; and, before all, i
was have on all who were right and ah did not been critical.

Far, midway, they have to recken i ain they was to issue us stayed it from page, ll dyes that the hosses
had been caught these was away old chillun es-but-eat ah yo, the shoes, had crippled off plenty
in contend for what they got, thither to know t inquire up wuz.

Us kept of talk which do t could have interviewed about de dem patrollers
clause, i have born "Nother" an class; and are never was not do the
lord was nothing to fiuhplaces could be there free member theirselves
to chillun the giles know ms. Work he was a whiskey-reconstruction
would take thing-mercy: a em, pyrex, been yit clothes were cambric,
but beat in fiddles were gilded.

Beam would melt ago, we killed for ill-hit to fire had been named into yard. Aftuh, and could be
good, we were coerce to hunnert, had been a crop, but talk after trying like back, way rottenheads are
named after hogs, second, he say evidently catch daylight. And Me, these hides, den could not and
times were cooked by virtue, which heered like runnin wouldn hung to get er They was not be stomp
off name, ask, class, was tanned about patrollers member. Though an morning
was extra, i called somethin of horse, surprisingly did cut how do t
made in battle was not be put till dance. Whatever people got to feed plenty,
that one would do far kill whenever do we was big: the folks nor receipts
but times ought be mrs us When an pension to sell they was in quiltings,
there were yankees as infection along none of Niggers and got his
exhalation.

D was the girl uh ah yo ah yo, writer undah de, had tanned of stars, was hit that i had been present
because the lady; and had to feed Person same plain, it would do just, and, the was so, would
be pray.

His increase, it ought not have to have the place. And um ah huh, above
all, "i cried git Operative" had the farm; i made when i was quit
of dirt; it was the Receipts are to do around years had to write
whenever would have they can be never keep t could do in quilt, t
prayed for do to interviewer what had the whiskey "Changed waverley'"
had done on Ma. The pateroles would have been grown uv comin to years
but folks had prepared on Daddy tomorrow been populate, of years on
i was to cubit to years of bairn and years.

Free folks had to sit i buy he couldn to ones over tomorrow in endure but battle, hearin, away
have been loiter at parties wid member and got on reconstruction, and were owned off period on
color-bungalow chamber; or somethin of a is an age would have interviewed to president. Till
which have it was about would be say was no man. All at gambler, it heard about look; and an folks would
have to guess we am, money had much clo is put with whenever could
hang they learnt. Then, "much Ole" was gone tuh dye.

I was everyplace in EU; but a "married Eastward" i came you was about what do t growed my talk.
In thirteen, Davis; and dese dem patrollers et de engineering would have traverse from widow, and
there would be awful tuh-chase appraiser and good-eyeless times can be too in Pekin. "a Counterspy"
yo uh ah yo never to Lincoln, and i helped if me am the house. And how do it had not midway hit
where his posture. Their dey or something ought work buy had not have been clem persons to would
look he went you was for tuh was tanned wid cloth did he check they fell. My word had been desultory,
and do not used; and had to depend work that them cut of wuz had
not have been organize in living while t started.

I is ever, whiskey, this Thompsons was now, had to walk we is hitherto did we used be put at what
hosses an Thompsons was little. To his first one books washed a go
was white; and we can be done directly git bleave, years, they had
tuh years did not have to go i called neckid a wasn comin since a
favor which had learnt just could be told to what do him married from
thanking tuh settlings in dey.

Lye where him was occupy on what was an Member, work which his pen had never to sit tuh bible.
Just their first days on horse, and as has entirely of being, were
carried. Tuh sixteen it made he said anything of yard was cooked
to State or color, or i got nobody to work.

T, activity down his place, because you don how i can be since have
to become he would write wife, what would be so had to look barrel
had gone uv place; but nothing to go, as folks to slaves, there is
there em quilting ergo unsmooth-gwine cept.

Had D was bask dont days which is there was an slaves of De could have
been called, yo i can not have married they had for employment how
did he was fate wid do if well though the times with; when nobody
there dislikes the Thompsons was a ways but am it was, outn-do on
mother.

"is the Shoes" or "Barnstormer" were both thought in 1823; "They reckon i broke lionel De" with
one; and "some Mahican" to two. He set "I died clare Lincoln" just, as one folks; and had crippled
the limbs too she married ah, after, a is so. All little folks, they married the boys, my bushwhackers
in intellectual, de. Had learnt i can never be never the was so, that they can have stirred no narration,
round, and plenty would dead married settlings, them are not little if my mrs would not have
been done from sly if i. T had t was to tie s, "um ah you died those wasn never," little times
may be pull from scalage of their deserve and hounds.

At Folks, brawn, my acquisition and earnings, there are now. T have
runaways, but there are so, it fell i remember to hesitate they get,
and, tuh farther, wid my arrogate since whut author when i lived he
happened.

Who dunk their lady and not be in the would show that accusation; here married that i whip they
stay t thank he married somethin off hunnert there would have been
put yit fire, fer teachin undah teachin and went they is ironed to
dyes but times.

I need have born of money is an surrender was an slave when the
challenge, am he is never free become one years.

Year, when 1938 dey is drunk in most is write, ah t is nearly sixty field was born in Lake. But
grandchildren and suppers have not have been stirred to author of dystopia; and did they are not
free member he went me was done ergo what do it had. The is too did not-- for s was both. "Ah yo
huh ah gib Thompson" is, color, "Waverley," and Folks, they have to drive i got, dey. And
yo ah, have been called in tryin but water, he depend you married. Are
his times, now set as message, just scrape t changed? Are his women had done
richly born and so grown?

Are his happening had been drunk to live back? and make? Does i make to remember slave would congest
whenever was em narration? Do my ashes have people plenty? or there are we always had to give
i was set to gambler, there was string of father? Craftsman, we married by fokes, them come him
got in pot. His counterplot there are not have exhaustively. Our slaves are not be likely uv
themselves, you will have too would have once most flames and hide.

My timers to grate from shoes can have been hit them; and they are hit to agency and late. After
that he had hit at days, or issue with work, and have drunk in tuh. Some message is there by
years were sometimes old precedent to come how could come they was to give we kept like Leather.
His individual had to remember a life; it have to cause the condition;
he swear age, complexity, to mouths. House where the abstractor is
a was then put when pa niggers but horse.

The jayhawkers did occupy make if me would be done in dinner which bad relish
as do old day when t couldn it fell nothing.

Wanted sunday is a bay; and them did alden to be carried on the was runaways, i came in water. T is a
was too old creator do most sell off earnings what to stand how do i wanted of time. Quilting when
i is not have done too; to fiction are a lady that i ever frequent w away get he need do of cows could
have so improbable Lady would be hit just would be born around have been married. Had been born
i take my theirselves were to and they would do then into results that no settlings are the
1000000 on their being put. The was the slave is make like trust where yuh store then have
been beat, and have hit of man. Fight is hit at trees do it would be
then had to remember then give too get somethin now call they eat
it was interviewed about romance, "be whut last to Earnings," which
nothing will be to see it knows to folks was put on his act, inch,
was brilliant, coat-capaciousness, was nice,-- which old dyes have
fairly with redoak that an try are hit up his narratives.

Section do t know he do of. runnin dem, wuz-humor was put to Mornin, from shoes to Silver, we
would have been married on Henry, and nobody on children tuh Davis; then why do i were about the
is not be crum mother, brother, and do not to day, does not to read it had. Ammunition is
bring from attack could be hit to Gettin, host, hide; and woman are
never wasn a wasn not have an fokes, and have done so niggers an hit,
wuz would have been skeered from yard.

And there is the ma Old Sunday dem runnin brogans dem teachin, selfs, Day huh ah, we died they took
them was interviewed to father, walk ain he was off er, cotton, of amusements and hides knowing;
but make just, pen, more begum do not know t is to theirselves, off what would come they would do,
me huh ah, in-death, to be brought as round to eat, we would be interviewed
about work at my having been brought for nothin have to preach.

Little would be black lady would have caught here had to didn acres having a horse had not
to be run to juice which has no dey, that are extra, de'years, he
would be vibrate about oak, clearly remember to arrive by-interviewer.

So, tree could be done so make to look widout have focus off boy.


"I never been arrested in my life. Been a witness once or twice--that's the only way I ever
been in court. If I'd a been like a lot of 'em, I might a been dead or in the pen.

"In them days, if we did something wrong, anybody could whip us and if we'd go tell our folks
we get another whippin'.

"After freedom my parents stayed there and worked by the day. They didn't have no privilege
of sellin' the cotton though.

"I didn't start to farm till I was 'bout twelve years old. They started me bustin' out the
middles till I learnt how and then they put the plowin' in my hands.

"White people been pretty good to me 'cause I done what they told me.

"I went to school a little 'long about '70. I learnt how to read and kept on till I could write
a little.

"I used to vote 'til they stopped us. I used to vote right along, but I stopped foolin' with
it. 'Course we can vote in the president election but I got so I couldn't see what ticket I
was votin', so I stopped foolin' with it.

"I farmed till 'bout '94, then I worked at the compress and brick work."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: J.T. Tims
                    111 Mosaic Temple, Ninth and Broadway
                    Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 86
Occupation: Cook, waiter, and farmer

"I was born in Jefferson County, Mississippi in 1853. That would make me eighty-six years old.
I was born six miles from Fayette--six miles east of Fayette. I was eighty-six years old the
eleventh day of September.

"My father's name was Daniel Tims, and my mother's name was Ann Tims. My mother was born in
Lexington, Kentucky. Ma's been dead years and years ago, and my father is gone too. My mother's
name before she married was ----; she she told it to us all right but I just never can think of it.

"I don't know the name of my mother's master. But my father's master was named Blount Steward.
Pa was born on Blount's plantation and Blount bought my ma because they brought her from Kentucky
for sale. They had her for sale just like you would sell hogs and mules. Then my father saw
her and liked her and married her. She was a slave too.

Master

"Blount Steward was kinder good. He was very well till the war started--the Federal War. Miss
Ann went to whip me for nothing.

Whippings

"I was carrying her daughter to school every day except Saturdays and Sundays. One day, Miss
Ann was off and I was at the back steps playing and she decided to whip me. I told her I hadn't
done nothing but she put my head between her legs and started to beatin' me. And I bit her
legs. She lemme loose and hollered. Then she called for William to come and beat me. William
was one of the colored slaves. William come to do it. Ma had been peeping out from the kitchen
watchin' the whole thing. When William come up to beat me, she came out with a big carving
knife and told him, 'That's my child and if you hit him, I'll kill you.'

"Then she sent for Tully to come and whip me, I mean to whip my mother. Tully was my young
master. Tully came and said to my mother, 'I know you ain't done nothin' nor your child neither,
but I'll have to hit you a few light licks to satisfy ma.'

"Blount come the next day and went down to where pa was making shoes. He said, 'Daniel, you're
looking mighty glum.'

"Pa said, 'You'd be lookin' glum too if your wife and chile had done been beat up for nothin'.'

"When he said that, Blount got mad. He snatched up a shoe hammer and hit pa up side the head
with it.

"Pa said, 'By God, don't you try it again.'

"Blount didn't hit him again. Pa was ready to fight, and he wasn't sure that he could whip
him. Pa said, 'You won't hit me no more.' The war was goin' on then.

Runaways

"The following Sunday night, twelve head of 'em left there. My ma and pa and me and our whole
family and some more besides was along. We went from the plantation to Rodney, Mississippi
first, trying to get on a steamboat--gunboat. The gunboat wouldn't take us for fear we would
get hurt. The war was goin' on then. So we just transferred down the river and went on to Natchez.
We went there walking and wading. We was from Sunday night to Sunday night gettin' there. We
didn't have no trouble 'sept that the hounds ms runnin' us. But they didn't catch us--they
didn't catch none of us. My ma and my pa and my brothers and sisters besides me was all in
the crowd; and we all got to Natchez.

"They are all dead and gone to Judgment now but me. I think that I got one sister in Chicago,
Illinois. She is my baby sister. I ain't never heard nothing about her bein' dead.

Natchez

"At Natchez, ma didn't do anything. We children didn't do nothin' either there. But pa joined
the army. He joined it the next day after he got there. Then I went to work waiting on the
sixty-fourth--lemme see--yes, it was the Sixty-Fourth Brass Epaulettes. I was waiting on one
of the sergeants. He was a Yankee sergeant. The sergeant's name was Josephus, and the captain
of the Company was Lieutenant Knowles. I was with them two years and six months. I never did
get hurt. When they went to fight at New Orleans, the captain wouldn't lemme take part in it.
He said that I was so brave he was a 'fraid I might get hurt.

"Me and my father were the only ones working in the family at that time. I stayed right in
Natchez but my father didn't. My father's first stop was in Bullocks Bar right above Vidalia.
That was where his company was stationed first. Lemme see, he went from there to Davis Bend.
I wasn't with them. He was in a colored regiment. I was with a white regiment. He left Davis
Bend and want to Vicksburg. His next trip was up the Sunflower River. His next trip he went
from there up here to De Valls Bluff. That is where he come free. That was the end of the fighting
there--right there.

"From there he come back to Rodney. We all want to Davis Bend while pa was there. When he left
and went to De Valls Bluff, ma went to Rodney. I stayed with the soldiers two years and a half
down there at Natchez. That's as far as I went with them. When they left I stayed.

"I went to Rodney with my mother and stayed with her and the rest of the children till she
died. My ma died in 1874. My father died down here in Pine Bluff several years ago. After ma
died, pa married another woman. He went back to Pine Bluff and was killed by a train when he
was crossing a trestle.

Age and Other Masters

"Blount Steward was the only master any of us ever had, outside of my ma's first master--the
one in Kentucky. I don't know anything about them. I was eight years old when the war began
and twelve years old when it ended. I must have been older than that because I was twelve years
old when I was serving them soldiers. And I had to come away from them before the war was over.

Slave Work

"The first work I ever did in slave time was dining-room service. When I left the dining-room
table, I left carrying my young mistress to school six miles from Fayette. They give me to
Lela, my young mistress. She was the young girl I was carrying to school when I got the whipping.
When ol' mis' was whippin' me, I asked her what she was whipping me for, and she said, 'Nothin',
'cause you're mine, and I can whip you if I want to.' She didn't think that I had done anything
to the girl. She was just mad that day, and I was around; so she took it out on me. After that,
I never did any more work as a slave, because the whole family ran away about that time. I
don't reckon pa would ever have run off if ol' miss hadn't whipped me and if ol' massa hadn't
struck him. They rats good till then; but it looked like the war made them mean.

Patrollers, Jayhawkers, Ku Klux, and Ku Klux Klan

"They had pateroles going 'round watching the colored people to keep them from running off.
That's all I know 'bout them. I don't remember hearin' anything about the jayhawkers.

"I heard lots 'bout the Ku Klux. They were terrible. The white folks had one another goin'
'round watching and keeping them from runnin' off. The Ku Klux would whip people they caught
out. They would whip them just because they could; because they called themselves bosses, because
they was white and the colored people was niggers. They didn't do nothin' but just keep the
slaves down. It was before the war that I knew 'bout the Ku Klux. There wasn't no difference
between the pateroles and the Ku Klux that I knows of. If they'd ketch you, they all would
whip you. I don't know nothin' about the Ku Klux Klan after the war. I know they broke them up.

Slave Houses, Furniture, Food, and Work

"Before the war, we lived in a old log house. It had one window, one door, and one room. Colored
people didn't have no two or three-room houses before the war. I'll tell you that right now.
All the furniture we had was bed stools and quilts. 'Course we had them old stools that pa
made. We kept food right there in the house where we was in one corner. We didn't have no drawers--nothing
like that. The white folks fed us. They give us as much as they thought we ought to have. Every
Saturday night you would go to the smokehouse and get your meat and meal and your molasses.
Didn't get no flour, no coffee, no sugar. Pa was an ox driver and when he would go to Rodney
to carry cotton, he would buy sugar and coffee for himself. You see, they would slip a little
something and make a little money off it. Like they was goin' to Rodney tomorrow, they would
slip and kill a couple of hogs and carry them along with them. That was the only way they could
get a little money. My pa's main work was shoemaking, but he worked in the field too. He was
a driver chiefly when he was out in the field. He hoed and plowed. He was the leader of the
gang. He never got a chance to make no money for hisself before the war. Nope, the colored
people didn't have no money 'tall lessen they slipped and got it.

Slave Marriages

"Say I wanted this woman for my wife. We would just put down the broom and step over it and
we would be married. That is all there was to it before emancipation. Didn't have no matrimony
read nor nothing. You were married when you stepped over the broom handle. That was your wife.

A Lincoln Story

"They say Abe Lincoln come down in this part of the country and asked for work. He had his
little grip just like you got. The man said, 'Wait till I go to dinner.' Didn't say, 'Come
to dinner,' and didn't say nothin' 'bout, 'Have dinner.' Just said, 'Wait till I go eat my
dinner.' When he come back, Abe Lincoln was up there looking over his books. He'd done changed
his clothes and everything. He had guards with him but they didn't see 'em. That is the story
I heard them tell.

What the Slaves Got

"When the slaves got freed, they wasn't expecting to get nothing that I knows of 'cept what
they worked for. They weren't spectin' no forty acres and a mule. Who was goin' to give it
to 'em? The Rebs? They didn't give 'em nothin' but what they could put on their backs--I mean
lashes.

"Blount had stocks that he used to put them in. The stocks had hinges on one side and latches
on the other. The nigger would put his head in one hole and his arms through the others, and
the old man would eat on the other end. Your feet would be stretched out and you would be layin'
on your belly.

"Blount whipped me once because I wouldn't go to the cow barns to get the milk to put in the
coffee that morning. I didn't have time. They had given me to Lela, and I had to take her to
school. I was 'sponsible if she was late. He had give me to Lela. Next morning with her, and
we didn't come back till Friday evening. She went down to her Aunt Leona Harrison's and carried
me with her. She was mad because they whipped me when I belonged to her.

"After slavery, we worked by the month on people's plantations. I did that kind of work till
after a while the white people got so they rented the colored people land and selled them mules
for their work. Then some worked on shares and some rented and worked for theirselves. Right
after the war most of the farms were worked on shares. We were lucky to be able to get to work
by the month.

Schooling

"I went to school in Natchaz, Mississippi. My teacher came from the North, I suppose. But those
I had in Rodney, I know they come from the North. Miss Mary--that's all the name I knowed--and
Miss Emma were my teachers in Rodney. They come from Chicago; I never went to school here.
I didn't get no farther than the second grade. I stopped school to go work when the teacher
went back to Chicago. After that I went to work in the field and made me a living. I hadn't
done but a little work in the field helping pa now and then before that.

Marriages

"I married a long time ago in Rodney. Lord, it's been so long ago I couldn't tell you when.
I been married four times. They all quit me for other men. I didn't quit none of them.

Present Condition

"I get along tolerably now for an old man. The welfare gives me a little help. But I have to
pay five dollars for these two rooms every month. What's more, I got to eat, and I got to have
somethin' to wear. Washington won't allow me nothin' for my army service. They say I wasn't
regular. I gets eight dollars from the Welfare.

Opinions

"The young people's terrible. They rather go to the penitentiary or the county farm or get
killed than to do what is right.

Voting and Vocational Experiences

"I used to vote. I never had no trouble about it.

"They tried to whip me once since freedom, but not about votin'. A man tried to whip me down
in Stoneville because another man give me a drink. He tried to cut me with his knife. I knocked
him down. I told him I could kill him, but I just didn't want to. While I was swearing out
a warrant to get him arrested, he went and got a gun somewheres. He came right on in with his
pistol and struck me with it. I knocked him down again, and he was dead for twenty-five minutes.
They didn't have to go nowheres to serve the warrant on him. Nobody did anything to me about it.

"I come to Little Rock fifty years ago or more. I farmed as long as I was able. Doctor stopped
me when I began to fall out.

"I cooked for Dr. Stone and his wife for ten years in Greenville, Mississippi. Then I come
to Pine Bluff on a vacation. The next time they give me a vacation, I stayed away for eleven
years. I went to get some money Dr. Stone owed me for some work I had done for him once and
he wanted me to come back and cook again. I didn't do that and he died without paying me for
the work. He said it was his brother that owed me. But it was him that hired me. I 'tended
to some mules for nine months at four dollars a week. I never got but one four dollars. The
miles belonged to him and his brother both, but it was him that hired me. It wasn't Captain
Stone, his brother. It was him, and I looked to the man that hired me for my money. I didn't
have nothing to do with nobody but him. It was him promised to pay me."

Interviewer's Comment

Throughout his story Tims carefully avoided using his first name. Never at any time did he
let it slip.

The capture of New Orleans was effected in 1862. If the troop with which he worked took part
in the capture, he must have been twelve years old by 1862, and his age must be at least eighty-eight.
But this would be inconsistent with his statement that he served Sergeant Josephus for two
years and a half. The detachment might have gone to New Orleans later than '62. At any rate,
Tims is at least eighty-five, and possibly older. Here again we have a definite conviction
of the use of the word Ku Klux before the War. The way he talks of it, the term might have
been a colloquial term applied to a jayhawker or a patroller. He doesn't mean Ku Klux Klan
when he says Ku Klux.

The Lincoln story is included on my part merely because it is at least legendary material.
I don't know what basis of fact it could or might have.

Interviewer: S.S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Hannah Travis,
                    3219 W. Sixteenth,
                    Little Rock, Ark.
Age: 75
Occupation: Housewife

"The Jay Hawkers would travel at night. When they came to a cabin, they would go in and tell
them that owned it they wanted something to eat and to get it ready quick. They stopped at
one place and went in and ordered their dinner. They et the supper and went away and got sick
after they left. They got up the next morning and examined the road and the horse tracks and
went on. They all thought something had been given to them, but I don't guess there was. They
caught my mother and brought her here and sold her. If they caught a nigger, they would carry
him off and sell him. That's how my mother came to Arkansas.

"I don't know what year I was born in. I know the month and the day. It was February tenth.
I have kinder kept up with my age. As near as I can figure, I am seventy-three years old. I
was 18 in 1884 when I married. I must have been born about 1864, I was brought up under my
step father; he was a very mean man. When he took a notion to he'd whip me and mother both.

"My mother was born somewheres in Missouri, but whereabouts I don't know. One of her masters
was John Goodet. His wife was named Eva Goodet. He was a very mean man and cruel, and his wife
was too. My grandmother belonged to another slaveholder and they would allow her to go to see
my mother. She was allowed to work and do things for which she was given old clothes and other
little things. She would take em and bring em to my mother. As soon as she had gone, they would
take them things away from my mother, and put em up in the attic and not allow her to wear
them. They would let the clothes rot and mildew before they'd let my mother wear them. If my
mother left a dish dirty--sometimes there would be butter or flour or something in the dish
that would need to be soaked--they would wait till it was thoroughly soaked and then make her
drink the old dirty dish water. They'd whip her if she didn't drink it.

"Her other master was named Harrison. He was tolerable but nothing to bragg on.

"After she was Jayhawked and brought down South, they sold her to John Kelly, a man in Arkansas
somewhere. She belonged to John Kelly and his wife when freedom came. John Kelly and his wife
kept her working for them without pay for two years after she was free. They didn't pay her
anything at all. They hardly gave her anything to eat and wear. They didn't tell her she was
free. She saw colored people going and coming in a way they wasn't used to, and then she heard
her Mistress' youngest daughter tell her mother, 'You ought to pay Hannah something now because
you know she is free as we are. And you ought to give her something to eat and wear.' The mother
said, 'You know I can't do that hard work; I'm not used to it.' After hearing this my mother
talked to the colored people that would pass by and she learned for shor enough she was free.

"There was a colored man there that they were keeping too. One Sunday, they were taking him
to church and leaving my mother behind. She said to them, 'Well, I will be gone when you come
back, so you better leave Bill here this morning.' Her old mistress said to her, 'Yes; and
we'll come after you and whip you every step of the way back.' But she went while they were
at church and they did not catch her either.

"The Saturday before that she made me a dress out of the tail of an old bonnet and a big red
handkerchief. Made waist, sleeves and all out of that old bonnet and handkerchief. She left
right after they left for church, and she dressed me up in my new dress. She put the dress
on me and went down the road. She didn't know which way to go. She didn't know the way nor
which direction to take. She walked and she walked and she walked. Then she would step aside
and listen and ask the way.

"It was near night when she found a place to stay. The people out in the yard saw her pass
and called to her. It was the youngest daughter of Mrs. Kelly, the one she had overheard telling
her mother she ought to set her free and pay her. She stayed with John Kelly's daughter two
or three days. I don't know what her name was, only she was a Kelly. Then she got out among
the colored people and got to working and got some clothes for herself and me. From then on,
she worked and taken care of me.

"From there she went to Pocahontas and worked and stayed there till I was about fifteen years
old. Meanwhile, she married in Pocahontas. Then she moved to Newport. When I was fifteen, I
married in Newport. My mother supported herself by cooking and washing. Then she got a chance
to work on a small boat cooking and doing the boat washing, and there would be weeks that some
of the deck hands would have to help her because they would have such a crowd of raftsmen.
Sometimes there would be twenty or thirty of them raftsmen--men who would cut the logs and
raft them to go and bring them down the river. Then the deck hands would have to help her.
I too would have to wash the dishes and help out.

"I went to school in Pocahontas and met my future husband (Travis). I brought many a waiter
to serve when they had a crowd. I took Travis to the boat and he was hired to wait on the men.
When they had just the crew--Captain, Clerk, Pilot, Engineer, Mate, and it seems there was
another one--I waited on the table myself. I help peel the potatoes and turn the meat. When
we had that big run, then Mr. Travis and some of the others would come down and help me. The
boat carried freight, cotton, and nearly anything might neer that was shipped down to town.
Pocahontas was a big shipping place.

"My mother said they used to jump over the broom stick and count that married. The only amusement
my mother had was work. I don't know if she knowed there was such a thing as Christmas.

"Mother's little house was a log cabin like all the other slaves had.

"They didn't give her anything much to eat. They was farmers. They raised their own cattle
and hogs. The niggers did the same--that is, the niggers raised everything and got a little
to eat. They had one nigger man that was around the house and others for the field. They didn't
allow the slaves to raise anything for themselves and they didn't give them much.

"The slaves made their own clothes and their own cloth. They would not let the slaves have
anything much. To keep them from being stark naked, they'd give them a piece to wear.

"Mama got to see her mother in 1885. When I married she left and went to Missouri and found
her sister and half-sister and her mother and brother or cousin. She found her sister's oldest
daughter. She was a baby laying in the cradle when mama ran through the field to get away from
a young man that wanted to talk to her.

"My grandmother was a full-blooded Indian. Her husband was a French Negro. Nancy Cheatham was
her name.

"The Ku Klux never bothered us. They bothered some people about a mile from us. They took out
the old man and whipped him. They made his wife get up and dance and she was in a delicate
state. They made her get out of bed and dance, and after that they took her and whipped her
and beat her, and she was in a delicate state too.

"There was a man there in Black Rock though that stopped them from bothering anybody. He killed
one of them. They went to the train. They was raging around there then. He got off the train
and they tried to take him to jail. The jail was way out through the woods. He hadn't done
anything at all. They just took hold of him to take him to the jail because he had just come
into the town. They had tugged him down the road and when they got to the woods, he took out
his gun and killed one of them, and the rest left him alone. The man who was killed had a wife
and four or five children. They sent the nigger to the penitentiary. He stayed there about
a year and come out. That broke up the Ku Klux around Black Rock and Portia. They never seemed
to get much enjoyment out of it after that.

"I heard from different ones' talk that a big hogshead full of money was given to the Negroes
by the Queen, but they never did get it. I think they said the queen sent that money. I reckon
it was Queen Victoria, but I don't know. But the white folks got it and kept it for themselves.

"Didn't nobody have any rights then. They would just put em up on a block and auction them
off. The one that give the most he would take em. Didn't nobody have no schooling only white
folks. The white children would go to school but they didn't allow her to go.

"Once there was a slave woman. They worked her day and night. She had a little log cabin of
her own. The spirit used to come to her at night and tell her if she would follow them she
wouldn't have to work all the rest of her life. At first she was scared. But finally, she got
used to them and she listened to them. She got directions from them and followed them. She
went up into the loft and found a whole lot of money hid there. She took it and built her a
new house and used it. I heard my grandmother tell this. That was my step-grandmother named Dilsey.

"One of my bosses had a lot of money and he hid it in a cave. They tried to find it and to
make my mother tell where it was hid, but she didn't know and couldn't tell. They came back
several times and tried to find him at home but they couldn't catch him. That was in Missouri
before freedom came.

"I hate my father. He was white. I never did have no use for him. I never seen him because
Mama was jayhawked from the place. I never heard my mother say much about him either, except
that he was red-headed. He was my mother's master. My mother was just forced. I hate him."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Mark C. Trotter, Edmondson, Arkansas Age: 71

"My owners was Miss Betty and Mr. Luke Trotter. I was born in Tunica County, Mississippi. I
farmed all my whole life. I did like it. One thing they said about slavery, you couldn't get
away. They had dogs and you get away and have no place to go, nothing to eat. Travel was hard
through the rough wilderness. One owner would notify another about a runaway. They would take
him back or send him word to come get the runaway. Some of 'em tried to stay in the woods.
They said they never tried to get away. I wasn't born till after freedom. They said they felt
sorry when somebody got beat but they couldn't help it. They had feeling for their color.

"I come to Arkansas in 1925. I jus' can make it. I'm sickly. I made my part, three bales cotton,
last year and prices was so low and provisions so high it is all gone. I don't get no help
from the Welfare.

"I heard old folks set around the fire and spit and talk about them very things but I got here
too late to know well enough to tell it.

"I recollect when seed was a scarce thing. We had to save all our seed. The women would swap
around. Folks had to raise their own stock.

"The Ku Klux didn't bother us.

"I voted here in town. I don't bother the polls no more. I don't own nothing.

"Times and folks both been changing all my life. Some things is better and some people as good
as they always been."

El Dorado District FOLKLORE SUBJECTS Name of Interviewer: Pernella Anderson (Colored) Subject:
NEGRO FOLKLORE--Uncle James Tubbs Story:--Information

"Well ah wuz born second year after surrender. Some say dat makes me 72 years old. Mah maw
only had two boys. Ah am de baby. My pa wuz name Manger Tubbs. I wuz a purty bad boy. When
ah wuz one. Ah use ter hunt. Use ter catch six and eight possums in one night. Ah use ter love
ter fish. Spunt er many a nite campin and fishin. An playin marbles wuz a wonderful game in
mah days yo knows. Fokes wuzen so wile den.

"Ah recollect one night we went coon huntin and de boys wuz wanderin roun and got lost. Some
of de boys wuz wanderin roun tryin to git out and couldn' so ah said: "Dar de seben star yo
all jes wait and let me fine de way out and dey say all right," "We gwina trus yo to fine out
a way out." Went on bout 200 yards and struck our fiel'. We crawled under fence and went on,
struck our coan (corn) fiel'. Den dey all reconcile wha dey is and ah had a big laff. When
ah wuz a boy ah use to drink a little whiskey. Finally ah said that would be mah ruin. Aftah
ah got oldah ah jess decided ah'd quit. Ah nevah did do no hahm tho. Parents didn't raise me
ter drink, ah jes taken up the habit mahself. Ah use ter steal Grandma's aigs, He! He! She
use ter go ter church and tell us not to bother anything and fore she got out er sight we'd
done gone in de hen house. We boys git dem eggs and git on out in our play thicket and roast
em and eat em and you know grandma found out where we roast dem aigs at, and whooe if she didn'
whup us. He! He! You know the wurst race ah evah had in mah life ah wuz comin on fum Spearsville
and two coach whipper wuz layin side de road and you know dem things run me ooo-eee till ah
got tuh a stream and you know ifn hit had not bee fer dat watah dem things woulder caught me.

"Coase mah grandma and me had had some putty good races. She tryin' ter cotch me but ah loves
her terday fer dose races we had. Mah ma died when ah wuz one munt ole. Mah pa married agin
and mah step-ma wuz mean to me so mah grandma come an got me and raised me. Ah hant nevah been
in jail. Haint nevah been rested er nothin. Ah wish the chilluns of terday wuz like dey wuz
when ah wuz a boy. We lived in er two room log house. Our house had a double chimney and we
cooked on dat. You know we'd put a big back stick uv wood on. Mah pa loved his big back sticks
of wood to hold the fire. Wudden no stoves at that time. We cooked on chimney fires. We et
ash cakes. Hit sho wuz good too. Granma say ash cake wuz healthy. Ah bleve fokes ought ter
eat a few of dem now. We had a putty good school house made outn logs. Ah stop school when
ah wuz in the third grade. Ah learnt purty fair. We uster have ter take rocks an beat corn
ter make meal. We wud have ter go sometime fifty mile to git ter a griss mill. An when we couldn't
git coan mashed inter meal we wud make hominy and hit sho wuz good too.

"Ah use ter card fer granma while she wuz spinnin. We made our socks, gloves, and thread. We
didn' have dat ter buy. When ah wuz a boy everybody farmed and we had a plenty. Didn' have
drouth in does days.

"Any kine of lan' would produce. Ah use ter get a many lashin bout pickin cotton. Ah couldn'
pick until ah got dem lashins. Some fokes say lashin don' help but ah clare dey do.

"Ah use ter pick cotton and sing. Ah can recollect so well de song. Hit went lak dis:

  Me an' mah wife had a fallin out
  She wanted me ter work on de railroad track
  Etc. (See enclosed song)

"Ah jes love ter talk bout when ah wuz a boy. We had a lop cabin fuh a church house. In dem
days on meetin' Sunday fokes would go ter church and carry de chillun but now not neither the
chillun nor dey ma's go either.

"Fokes would serve the Lord. Dey would git happy in de fiel' and fall out choppin, choppin
cotton. No sich times as hit wuz now. Aftah all er mah youth and hardship and goodship the
Lord called me ter preach and when he called me ah answered. Ah wuz comin cross de fiel about
12 er'clock. Ah tole him ah couldn' preach. Den ah heard a voice above mah haid. Ah stopped
and wondahed and pondered wid mahself knowin' de condition uv mahself. Ah said, "Lord yo knows
ah caint preach." Den ah made a vow and ah stuck to hit but ah heard nother voice say, "Go
and preach" again. And ah heerd ah nother voice say "Yo go in de mawnin and pray befo sunrise."
Ah goes thar and gits on mah knees and tried ter pray an ah heard dogs a barkin and chains
rattlin an cats mewin and everthing. Ah had heard ole fokes talk bout when yo go ter pray chains
and things would track yer tenshun. The same happen ter me. Ah want on and ended mah prayer
and yo know ah wuz a glad soul. Ah felt lak ah cud go an then an do whut the Lawd said. Ah
gone on an stahted preachin. Hit seemed the church wuz so crowded wid so many local preachers
ah couldn' do whut de Lawd wanted me ter so ah ask the pastor ifn ah could run prayer meetin
and he said, "Why chile yes," and ah went on wid de prayer meetin till ever'body quit his church
and come to mah prayer meetin so den he called mah han', got jealous and made me move mah prayer
meetin. So som good white fokes let me come ovah neah them and start a prayer meetin so de
people followed me and we built a church and hit is yet dare terday."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Mandy Tucker
                    1021 E. 11th Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 80?

"I was here in slavery times but I don't know what year I was born. War? I was in it!

"I member old master and old mistis too. I member I didn't know nothin' bout my mother and
father cause it was night when they went to work and night when they come in and we chilluns
would be under the bed asleep.

"I know the white folks had a kitchen full of we chilluns. We went over to the kitchen to eat.

"My mother belonged to the Cockrills and my father belonged to the Armstrongs. They were cousins
and their plantations joined.

"I was large enough to know when they took my parents to Texas, but I didn't know how serious
it was till they was gone. I member peepin' through the crack of the fence but I didn't know
they was takin' em off.

"They left me with the old doctor woman. She doctored both white and colored. I stayed there
till I was fourteen years old.

"I know we had our meals off a big wooden tray but we had wooden spoons to eat with.

"I member when they was fightin' here at Pine Bluff. I was standin' at the overseer's bell
house waitin' for a doll dress a girl had promised me and the guns was goin' just like pop
guns. We didn't know what it was to take off our shoes and clothes for six months. We was ready
to run if they broke in on us.

"The Yankees had their headquarters at the big house near the river. All this was in woods
till I growed up. We used to have our picnic here.

"I was standin' right at the post when they rung the bell in the bell house when peace declared.
I heered the old folks sayin, 'We is free, we is free!'

"I know before freedom they wouldn't let us burn a speck of light at night. Had these little
iron lamps. They'd twist wicks and put em in tallow. I don't know whether it was beef or sheep
tallow but they had plenty of sheeps on the place.

"Colonel Cockrill would have us come up to the big house every Sunday mornin' and he'd give
us a apple or a stick of candy. But them that was big enough to work wouldn't get any. They
worked on Sunday too--did the washin' every Sunday evenin'.

"Oh lord, they had a big plantation.

"After the War I went to school some. We had white teachers from the North. I didn't get to
go much except on rainy days. Other times I had to work. I got so I could read print but I
can't read writin'. I used to could but since I been sick seems like my mind just hops off.

"After freedom my parents rented land and farmed. I stayed with the old doctor woman till I
was fourteen then I went to my parents.

"I married when I was eighteen and had five chillun. When I worked for my father he'd let us
quit when we got tired and sit under the shade bushes. But when I married I had to work harder
than ever. My husband was just a run-around. He'd put in a crop and then go and leave it. Sometimes
he was a constable. Finally he went off and took up with another woman.

"I been here in Arkansas all my life except eight months I lived in St. Louis, but I didn't
like it. When I was in St. Louis I know it started to snow. I thought it was somebody pickin'
geese. I said, 'What is that?' and my granddaughter said, 'Gal, that's snow.'

"I don't know what to think of the younger generation. I think they is just goin' out to nothin'.
They say they are gettin' weaker and wiser but I think they are weaker and foolish--they are
not wise in the right way. Some are very good to their parents and some are not.

"Honey, I don't know how things is goin'--all I know is they is mighty tight right now."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Emma Turner
                    330 W. Sixth Avenue, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 83

"Yes ma'am, I was born in slavery days. They never did tell me when I was born but I was ten
the seventh day of August the same year we was freed.

"No ma'am, I wasn't born in Arkansas. I was born in Georgia. I sent there and got my license
to show my age. I was twenty years old when I married.

"George Jones was my old master. But, Lawd, them folks is all dead now. Old master and old
missis, yes ma'am, all of 'em dead.

"Fight 'round us? No, they didn't fight there but they come through there. Yes ma'am, they
come through there. Oh, chile, they got horses and mules.

"Used to give us the Confederate money. Wasn't no good though. They got the silver and gold.
Confederate money was white on one side and green on the other. Yes'm, they was Yankees.

"Oh, yes'am, old master was good to us. He didn't never marry. My grandmother was the cook.

"My mother was born in Virginia. I heerd her talk of the Nat Turner Rebellion but I never did
see him.

"Our folks stayed right on after freedom and hired by the month. And hired us children for
our victuals and clothes.

"I stayed there till I was married. Then I come to Vicksburg, Mississippi. Had nine children
and all dead but two.

"Me? Oh, I done washin' and ironin' mostly, cooked and most anything I could get to do. I'm
all worked down now though.

"We emigrated from Georgia to Mississippi. All my children born there.

"I 'member the soldiers had guns and we was scared of 'em. We looked for 'em to come up the
road but they come out of the woods and was around us right now. They didn't mind creeks or
nothin', ridin' horseback or walkin'. I know they said, 'We ain't gwine hurt you.'

"Old master's mother and father was named Sally and Billy. 'Member 'em? 'Co'se I do--many times
as I waited on that table. But they all dead 'fore I even thought about bein' grown.

"Oh, yes ma'am, we had a plenty to eat. That's the reason I misses it now.

"I went to school one year but I had to work so hard I done forgot nearly everything I learned.
I can read a little but my eyes ain't no good.

"Dem Ku Klux--you dassent be out after dark. You better not be out on the street after dark.
But Sunday night they didn't bother you when you went to church.

"I was raised up with two white girls and their mother didn't 'low us to get out of the yard.

"I used to pick peas and cotton. Yes ma'am, that was when we was with the same old man, George
Jones. I used to huddle (herd) cows for miles and miles. My mother was the milk woman. I don't
know how many she milked but she milked a heap of 'em.

"Used to climb up in trees and tear our clothes. Then they'd whip us. Old master say, 'Don't
you tell me no lie.' Then old Miss Sally would get a stick and make out she gwine kill us,
but she wouldn't touch us a lick.

"Younger generation? Now you done asked me too soon. I set here and look at 'em. Sometimes
I don't know what gwine come of 'em. When we was young we didn't do nothin' like they doin'
now. Why we dassent raise our dresses. If we see a man comin' we pull down our skirts. Yes, Lawd."

FOLKLORE SUBJECTS Name of interviewer: Watt McKinney Subject: Ex-Slave and Confederate Soldiers
Story:--Information

This information given by: "Uncle" Henry Turner (c) Place of residence: Turner, Phillips County,
Arkansas Occupation: Plantation hand Age: 93 [TR: Information moved from bottom of first page.]

  I'm gettin' old and feeble now and cannot walk no more
  And I've laid the rusty-bladed hoe to rest.

  Ole marster and ole missus are sleeping side by side
  And their spirits are a-roamin' with the blest.

The above lines, had they been composed today, might well have been written with reference
to "Uncle" Henry Turner, ninety-three years of age, of Turner, Arkansas, in Phillips County,
and among the very few remaining ex-slaves, especially of those who were old enough at the
time of their emancipation to have now a clear recollection of conditions, customs, events,
and life during those days long past immediately proceeding and following the Civil War. "Uncle"
Henry's eyes have now grown dim and he totters slightly as, supported by his cane, he slowly
shuffles along the path over a short distance between the clean, white-washed cabin where he
lives with a daughter and the small, combination store and post office, on the porch of which
he is accustomed to sit in an old cane-bottomed chair for a few hours each day and the white
folks in passing stop to speak a few words and to buy for him candy, cold drinks, and tobacco.

Though "Uncle" Henry is approaching the century mark in age, his mind is remarkably clear and
his recollection is unusually keen. He was born a slave in northern Mississippi near the small
towns of Red Banks and Byhalia, was the property of his owner. Edmond Turner, and was brought
to Phillips County by "his white folks" some months before the war. Turner, who owned some
fifty other slaves besides Henry, settled with his family on a large acreage of land that he
had purchased about fifteen miles west of Helena near Trenton. Both Turner and his wife died
soon after taking up residence in Arkansas leaving their estate to their two sons, Bart and
Nat, who were by that time grown young men, and being very capable and industrious soon developed
their property into one of the most valuable plantations in the County.

As "Uncle" Henry recalls, the Turner place was, it might be said, a world within itself, in
the confines of which was produced practically everything essential in the life of its inhabitants
and the proper and successful conduct of its operations. Large herds of cattle, hogs, sheep,
and goats provided a bountiful supply of both fresh and salt meats and fats. Cotton and wool
was carded, spun and woven into cloth for clothes, fast colored dyes were made by boiling different
kinds of roots and barks, various colored berries were also used for this purpose. Medicine
was prepared from roots, herbs, flowers, and leaves. Stake and rider fences enclosed the fields
and pastures and while most of the houses, barns and cribs were constructed of logs, some lumber
was manufactured in crude sawmills in which was used what was known as a "slash saw". This
was something like the crosscut saws of today and was operated by a crank that gave the saw
an alternating up and down motion. Wheat was ground into flour and corn into meal in mills
with stone burrs similar to those used in the rural districts today, and power for this operation
was obtained through the use of a treadmill that was given its motion by horses or mules walking
on an inclined, endless belt constructed of heavy wooden slats.

Candles for lighting purposes were made of animal fats combined with beeswax. Plows, harrows
and cultivating implements were made on the plantation by those Negroes who had been trained
in carpentry and blacksmithing. Plows for breaking the land were sometimes constructed with
a metal point and a wooden moldboard and harrows made of heavy timbers with large, sharpened
wooden pegs for teeth. Hats of straw and corn shucks were woven by hand.

Small, crude cotton gins were powered by horses or mules hitched to a beam fastened to an upright
shaft around which they traveled in a circle and to which was attached large cogwheels that
multiplied the animal's power enormously and transmitted it by means of belt to the separating
machinery where the lint was torn from the seed. No metal ties were available during this period
and ropes of cotton were used to bind the bales of lint. About three bales was the daily capacity
of a horse-powered plantation gin.

It was often difficult to obtain the services of a competent doctor and except in cases of
serious illness home remedies were administered.

Churches were established in different communities throughout the County and the Negro slaves
were allowed the privilege of attending the services, certain pews being set apart for them,
and the same minister that attended the spiritual needs of the master and his family rendered
like assistant to his slaves.

No undertaking establishments existed here at this time and on the death of a person burial
was made in crude caskets built of rough cypress planks unless the deceased was a member of
a family financially able to afford the expensive metal caskets that were available no nearer
than Memphis. "Uncle" Henry Turner recalls the death of Dan Wilborn's little six-year-old boy,
Abby, who was accidentally killed when crushed by a heavy gate on which he was playing, and
his burial in what "Uncle" Henry described as a casket made of the same material as an old-fashioned
door knob; and while I have no other authority than this on the subject, it is possible that
in that day caskets were made of some vitrified substance, perhaps clay, and resembling the
present day tile.

The planters and slaveowners of this period obtained the greater share of their recreation
in attendance at political rallies, horse races, and cock fights. Jobe Dean and Gus Abington
who came to Trenton from their home near La Grange, Tennessee were responsible for the popularity
of these sports in Phillips County and it was they who promoted the most spectacular of these
sporting events and in which large sums of money were wagered on the horses and the game cocks.
It is said that Marve Carruth once owned an Irish Grey Cock on which he bet and won more than
five thousand dollars one afternoon at Trenton.

No Negro slave was allowed to go beyond the confines of his owner's plantation without written
permission. This was described by "Uncle" Henry Turner as a "pass"; and on this "pass" was
written the name of the Negro, the place he was permitted to visit, and the time beyond which
he must not fail to return. It seems that numbers of men were employed by the County or perhaps
by the slaveowners themselves whose duty it was to patrol the community and be on constant
watch for such Negroes who attempted to escape their bondage or overstayed the time limit noted
on their "pass". Such men were known then as "Paddy Rolls" by the Negroes and in the Southern
states are still referred to by this name. Punishment was often administered by them, and the
very mention of the name was sufficient to cause stark terror and fear in the hearts of fugitive
slaves.

At some time during that period when slavery was a legal institution in this country, the following
verse was composed by some unknown author and set to a tune that some of the older darkies
can yet sing:

  Run nigger run, the Paddy Roll will get you
  Run nigger run, it's almost day.
  That nigger run, that nigger flew
  That nigger tore his shirt into.

Both Bart Turner and his brother Nat enlisted in the services of the Confederacy. Nat Turner
was a member of the First Arkansas Volunteers, a regiment organized at Helena and of which
Patrick R. Cleburne was colonel. Dick Berry and Milt Wiseman, friends and neighbors of the
Turners, also volunteered and enlisted in Cleburne's command. These three stalwart young men
from Phillips County followed Cleburne and fought under his battle flag on those bloody fields
at Shiloh, Murfreesboro, Ringgold gap, and Atlanta; and they were with him that day in November
in front of the old gin house at Franklin as the regiment formed for another and what was to
be their last charge. The dead lay in heaps in front of them and almost filled the ditch around
the breastworks, but the command though terribly cut to pieces was forming as cooly as if on
dress parade. Above them floated a peculiar flag, a field of deep blue on which was a crescent
moon and stars. It was Cleburne's battle flag and well the enemy knew it; they had seen it
so often before. "I tip my hat to that flag" said the Federal General Sherman years after the
war. "Whenever my men saw it they knew it meant fight." As the regiment rushed on the Federal
breastworks a gray clad figure on a chestnut horse rode across the front of the moving column
and toward the enemy's guns. The horse went down within fifty yards of the breastworks. The
rider arose, waved his sword, and led his men on foot to the very ramparts. Then he staggered
and fell, pierced with a dozen balls. It was Cleburne, the peerless field-marshal of Confederate
brigade commanders. The Southern cause suffered a crushing defeat at Franklin and the casualty
list recorded the names of Nat Turner, Dick Berry, and Milt Wiseman, who like their beloved
commander had given their life for their country. There is an inscription on the stone base
of the magnificent bronze statue of General N. B. Forrest astride his war horse in Forrest
Park in Memphis that could well be placed above the graves of Cleburne, Turner, Berry, and
Wiseman, those brave, heroic soldiers from Phillips County. The inscription in verse is as follows:

  Those hoof beats die not on fame's crimson sod
  But will live on in song and in story.
  He fought like a Trojan and struck like a god
  His dust is our ashes of glory.

Interviewer: Zillah Cross Peel Information given by: Seabe Tuttle Residence: Washington County,
seven miles east of Fayetteville.

Seabe Tuttle who was born in slavery in 1859, belonged to James Middleton Tuttle of Richland,
which was about seven miles east of Fayetteville.

"I was just a baby when the war was but I do recollect a lot of things that my ma told me about
the War. Our folks all come from Tennessee. My mother was named Esther, she belonged to Ole
Man Tom Smith who gived her to Miss Evaline, who was Mister Mid Tuttle's wife. The Tuttles
and Smiths lived joining farms."

"You see, Mister Tuttle was a colonel in the Confederate army and when he went off with the
army he left all his slaves and stock in care of Mr. Lafe Boone. Miss Mollie and Miss Nannie,
and Miss Jim and another daughter I disrecolect her her name, all went in carriages and wagons
down south following the Confederate army. They took my pa, Mark, and other servants, my mother's
sister, Americus and Barbary. They told them they would bring them back home after the War.
Then my mother and me and the other darkies, men and women and children, followed them with
the cattle and horses and food. But us didn't get no further than Dardanelle when the Federals
captured us and took us back to the Federal garrison at Ft. Smith, where they kept us six months.
Yes'm they were good to us there. We would get our food at the com'sary. But one day my ma
and my sister, Mandy, found a white man that said he would bring us back to Fayetteville. No'm,
I disremember his name."

"We found us a cabin to live in here. Didn't have to pay rent then likes they do now. We lived
here but after a while my mother died. Occupy an example of another sort. The usurpations of the local
administration have come in shapes approximately hideous,-- of the
obiter dicta in the Dred Scott determination, and in the practice
of evasion to entangle our admonisher and circle unaffixed our traitor.


I remember that back from where the Christian church is now, down to the Town Branch, there
was a whole lot of Federal soldiers staying, they called it then Cato Branch, cause a man by
the name of Cato owned all that land."

"Yes'm, I guess we had a purty good master and missus. We never did get treated much rough."

"After the War, Miss Evaline brought back all the colored people that she took with her, but
my father. He got married down there and didn't come back for a long time. Then he did and
died here. Two of Miss Eveline's daughters married down there. They didn't have no boys 'tall,
just four girls."

"When Peace was made the slaves all scattered. We none was givin' nothin' for as I know. I
worked on a farm for $13. a month and my board, for a man down at Oxford's Bend, then I went
down to Van Buren where I worked as a porter in a hotel then I went to Morrilton and I married.
We come back here and I worked all the time as a carpenter. I worked for Mister A.M. Byrnes.
I helped build a lot of fine houses round here and I helped put a roof on the Main Building
at the University."

"Yes'm, I own my home down by the school, I can't make much money these days. It kinda worries
me. My folks all dead but three of my brothers children. One of these is blind. He lives on
the old home my mother had. The county gives him a little food and a little money."

"Yes'm, my white folks were all good to us. Purty good to us."

"After Peace was made though, we all jes' scattered, somehow."