Considering the prominent part acted by William Penn in the reign of James II., and his active
and influential support of the obnoxious declaration which precipitated the revolution of 1688,
it could hardly have been otherwise than that his character should suffer from the unworthy
suspicions and prejudices of his contemporaries.  His views of religious toleration were too
far in advance of the age to be received with favor.  They were of necessity misunderstood
and misrepresented. All his life he had been urging them with the earnestness of one whose
convictions were the result, not so much of human reason as of what he regarded as divine illumination.
What the council of James yielded upon grounds of state policy he defended on those of religious
obligation. He had suffered in person and estate for the exercise of his religion. He had travelled
over Holland and Germany, pleading with those in authority for universal toleration and charity.
On a sudden, on the accession of James, the friend of himself and his family, he found himself
the most influential untitled citizen in the British realm. He had free access to the royal
ear.  Asking nothing for himself or his relatives, he demanded only that the good people of
England should be no longer despoiled of liberty and estate for their religious opinions. James,
as a Catholic, had in some sort a common interest with his dissenting subjects, and the declaration
was for their common relief. Penn, conscious of the rectitude of his own motives and thoroughly
convinced of the Christian duty of toleration, welcomed that declaration as the precursor of
the golden age of liberty and love and good-will to men.  He was not the man to distrust the
motives of an act so fully in accordance with his lifelong aspirations and prayers.  He was
charitable to a fault: his faith in his fellow-men was often stronger than a clearer insight
of their characters would have justified.  He saw the errors of the king, and deplored them;
he denounced Jeffreys as a butcher who had been let loose by the priests; and pitied the king,
who was, he thought, swayed by evil counsels.  He remonstrated against the interference of
the king with Magdalen College; and reproved and rebuked the hopes and aims of the more zealous
and hot-headed Catholics, advising them to be content with simple toleration.  But the constitution
of his mind fitted him rather for the commendation of the good than the denunciation of the
bad. He had little in common with the bold and austere spirit of the Puritan reformers.  He
disliked their violence and harshness; while, on the other hand, he was attracted and pleased
by the gentle disposition and mild counsels of Locke, and Tillotson, and the latitudinarians
of the English Church.  He was the intimate personal and political friend of Algernon Sydney;
sympathized with his republican theories, and shared his abhorrence of tyranny, civil and ecclesiastical.
He found in him a man after his own heart,--genial, generous, and loving; faithful to duty
and the instincts of humanity; a true Christian gentleman.  His sense of gratitude was strong,
and his personal friendships sometimes clouded his judgment.  In giving his support to the
measures of James in behalf of liberty of conscience, it must be admitted that he acted in
consistency with his principles and professions.  To have taken ground against them, he must
have given the lie to his declarations from his youth upward.  He could not disown and deny
his own favorite doctrine because it came from the lips of a Catholic king and his Jesuit advisers;
and in thus rising above the prejudices of his time, and appealing to the reason and humanity
of the people of England in favor of a cordial indorsement on the part of Parliament of the
principles of the declaration, he believed that he was subserving the best interests of his
beloved country and fulfilling the solemn obligations of religious duty.  The downfall of James
exposed Penn to peril and obloquy.  Perjured informers endeavored to swear away his life; and,
although nothing could be proved against him beyond the fact that he had steadily supported
the great measure of toleration, he was compelled to live secluded in his private lodgings
in London for two or three years, with a proclamation for his arrest hanging over his head.
At length, the principal informer against him having been found guilty of perjury, the government
warrant was withdrawn; and Lords Sidney, Rochester, and Somers, and the Duke of Buckingham,
publicly bore testimony that nothing had been urged against him save by impostors, and that
"they had known him, some of them, for thirty years, and had never known him to do an ill thing,
but many good offices."  It is a matter of regret that one professing to hold the impartial
pen of history should have given the sanction of his authority to the slanderous and false
imputations of such a man as Burnet, who has never been regarded as an authentic chronicler.
The pantheon of history should not be lightly disturbed.  A good man's character is the world's
common legacy; and humanity is not so rich in models of purity and goodness as to be able to
sacrifice such a reputation as that of William Penn to the point of an antithesis or the effect
of a paradox.

     Gilbert Burnet, in liberality as a politician and tolerance as a
     Churchman, was far in advance of his order and time.  It is true
     that he shut out the Catholics from the pale of his charity and
     barely tolerated the Dissenters.  The idea of entire religious
     liberty and equality shocked even his moderate degree of
     sensitiveness.  He met Penn at the court of the Prince of Orange,
     and, after a long and fruitless effort to convince the Dissenter
     that the penal laws against the Catholics should be enforced, and
     allegiance to the Established Church continue the condition of
     qualification for offices of trust and honor, and that he and his
     friends should rest contented with simple toleration, he became
     irritated by the inflexible adherence of Penn to the principle of
     entire religious freedom.  One of the most worthy sons of the
     Episcopal Church, Thomas Clarkson, alluding to this discussion, says
     "Burnet never mentioned him (Penn) afterwards but coldly or
     sneeringly, or in a way to lower him in the estimation of the
     reader, whenever he had occasion to speak of him in his History of
     his Own Times."

     He was a man of strong prejudices; he lived in the midst of
     revolutions, plots, and intrigues; he saw much of the worst side of
     human nature; and he candidly admits, in the preface to his great
     work, that he was inclined to think generally the worst of men and
     parties, and that the reader should make allowance for this
     inclination, although he had honestly tried to give the truth.  Dr.
     King, of Oxford, in his Anecdotes of his Own Times, p. 185, says:
     "I knew Burnet: he was a furious party-man, and easily imposed upon
     by any lying spirit of his faction; but he was a better pastor than
     any man who is now seated on the bishops' bench."  The Tory writers
     --Swift, Pope, Arbuthnot, and others--have undoubtedly exaggerated
     the defects of Burnet's narrative; while, on the other hand, his
     Whig commentators have excused them on the ground of his avowed and
     fierce partisanship.  Dr. Johnson, in his blunt way, says: "I do not
     believe Burnet intentionally lied; but he was so much prejudiced
     that he took no pains to find out the truth."  On the contrary, Sir
     James Mackintosh, in the Edinburgh Review, speaks of the Bishop as
     an honest writer, seldom substantially erroneous, though often
     inaccurate in points of detail; and Macaulay, who has quite too
     closely followed him in his history, defends him as at least quite
     as accurate as his contemporary writers, and says that, "in his
     moral character, as in his intellectual, great blemishes were more
     than compensated by great excellences."

THE BORDER WAR OF 1708.

The picturesque site of the now large village of Haverhill, on the Merrimac River, was occupied
a century and a half ago by some thirty dwellings, scattered at unequal distances along the
two principal roads, one of which, running parallel with the river, intersected the other,
which ascended the hill northwardly and lost itself in the dark woods. The log huts of the
first settlers had at that time given place to comparatively spacious and commodious habitations,
framed and covered with sawed boards, and cloven clapboards, or shingles.  They were, many
of them, two stories in front, with the roof sloping off behind to a single one; the windows
few and small, and frequently so fitted as to be opened with difficulty, and affording but
a scanty supply of light and air.  Two or three of the best constructed were occupied as garrisons,
where, in addition to the family, small companies of soldiers were quartered.  On the high
grounds rising from the river stood the mansions of the well-defined aristocracy of the little
settlement,--larger and more imposing, with projecting upper stories and carved cornices. 
On the front of one of these, over the elaborately wrought entablature of the doorway, might
be seen the armorial bearings of the honored family of Saltonstall.  Its hospitable door was
now closed; no guests filled its spacious hall or partook of the rich delicacies of its ample
larder. Death had been there; its venerable and respected occupant had just been borne by his
peers in rank and station to the neighboring graveyard. Learned, affable, intrepid, a sturdy
asserter of the rights and liberties of the Province, and so far in advance of his time as
to refuse to yield to the terrible witchcraft delusion, vacating his seat on the bench and
openly expressing his disapprobation of the violent and sanguinary proceedings of the court,
wise in council and prompt in action,--not his own townsmen alone, but the people of the entire
Province, had reason to mourn the loss of Nathaniel Saltonstall.

