This holds true of the man who is so patently a specialist that it would be wrong to waste
him in a command responsibility. If he understands the art of command, and his personality
and moral fortitude fit him for the leading of men, he will be in better adjustment with his
circumstances anywhere in the services, and will be given greater respect by his superiors.
This rule is so absolute in its workings as to warrant saying that every man who wears the
insignia of an officer in the armed forces of the United States should aspire to the same bearing
and the same inner confidence as to his power to meet other men and move them in the direction
he desires that is to be marked in a superior company commander.

The natural leader is the real specialist of the armed services. He is as prodigious, and as
much a man apart, as the wizard who has mastered supersonic speeds. Here we speak not alone
of the ability of an officer fully to control and develop his element under training conditions,
but to take the same element into battle and conserve the total of its powers with complete
efficiency. The man who resolves to develop within himself the prerequisite qualities which
serve such an object is moved by the worthiest of all ambitions, for he has submitted himself
to the most complex task within human reach.

The self-assurance that one has promise in the field of command is in part a derivative of
growth and in part a matter of instinct. But to the normal young officer, it comes as something
of a delightful surprise to learn that when he speaks other men will listen, when he reasons
they will become convinced, and when he gives an order his authority is accepted. Far from
being a bad quality, this ingenuousness is wholesome because it reflects warm appreciation
of what has been given him. It does not lessen confidence if a commander feels this way about
those who are within his charge throughout his service. The best results flow when the working
loyalty of other men is accepted like manna from heaven, with gratitude rather than with gratification.
Simply to feel that it is one's rightful portion is the best proof that it is not, and leads
to cockiness, windiness, and self-adulation, with attendant loss of the sympathy of other men.
The consequence to the individual whose dream of success is only that he will take on more
and more authority is that he will suffer from a more and more one-sided development. The great
philosopher, Albert Schweitzer, holds up to other self-reliant men the example of Defoe's hero,
Robinson Crusoe, because he is continually reflecting on the subject of human conduct and he
feels himself so responsible for this duty that when he gets in a fight he thinks about how
he can win it with the smallest loss of human life. The conservation of men's powers, not the
spending thereof, is the object of main concern to the truly qualified military commander.

At the same time, there should be no mistake about the manner in which command is exercised.
To command is not simply to compel or to convince but a subtle mixture of both. Moral suasion
and material compulsion are linked in its every act. It involves not only saying that this
is the best thing to do but inferring that the thing had best be done. Force and reason are
inseparably linked in its nature, and the force of reason is not more important than the reason
of force, if the matter is to be brought to a successful issue. The very touchstone of loyalty
is that just demands will be put upon it. It cannot endure and strengthen except through finding
material means of expression. When men are given absolute freedom, with no compulsion upon
them but to eat and sleep, as with a group of South Sea savages, there can be no strong, uniting
bond between them. As for absolute security, outside of the walls of a penitentiary it is virtually
nonexistent, though one would scarcely look inside the walls expecting to find loyalty. In
brief, being an active force in the lives of humankind, loyalty is developed through the unifying
of action. The more decisive the action becomes, the greater becomes the vitality of the bond.
Service men look back with an esteem, amounting almost to the love that a son feels for his
father, toward the captains who led them well on the battlefield. But the best skipper they
ever had on a training detail gets hardly more than a kind word.

It has already been said that the man with a preeminent ability to organize and direct the
action of the military group has an outstanding and greatly prized talent. The assumption that
the holder of a commission in an armed service of the United States is possessed of this quality
to a degree goes with the commission; lacking it, the warrant would have been withheld. But
all men vary in their capacities to respond confidently to any particular situation. Some,
no matter how hard they try, lack the keen edge.

To the officer who discovers that he is especially suited, by temperament and liking, to the
leading of combat forces, it comes, therefore, almost as a personal charge that he will let
nothing dissuade him from the conviction that his post of duty is with the line. Though he
may seek other temporary duty to advance his own knowledge and interests, he should remain
mentally wedded to that which he does best, and which most other men find difficult.

If it is a good rule for him, it applies just as well to all others within his charge. This
means close attention to the careers of all junior leaders from the enlisted ranks, toward
the end that the fighting strength of the establishment will be conserved. The personnel people
will sometimes scuttle a fine natural leader of a tactical platoon, simply because they have
discovered that in civilian life he ran a garage and there is a vacancy for a motor pool operator,
or switch a gunner who is zealous for his new work back to a place in the rear, because the
record book says that he is an erstwhile, though reluctant, keeper of books. From their point
of view, this makes sense. But they are not always aware of how difficult and essential it
is to find men who can lead at fighting. It is a point which all officers need ponder, for
in our modern enthusiasm over the marvels that can be worked by a classification system, we
tend to overlook that fighting power is the main thing, and that the best hands are not to
be found behind every bush.

When war comes, there are vast changes in the tempo and pressure of life within the armed establishment.
Faced with new and unmeasured responsibility, almost every man would be depressed by the feeling
that he is out far beyond his depth, if he were not buoyed by the knowledge that every other
man is in like case, and that all things are relative. Once these points are recognized, the
experience becomes exalting. A relatively junior officer finds himself able confidently to
administer a policy applying to an entire service; a bureau, which might have been laboring
to save money in the purchase of carpet tacks and pins, becomes suddenly confronted with the
task of spending billions, and of getting action whatever the cost.

