Presently his eyes reverted to her face. "So this is what I helped you to get," he said. "I've
always meant to run over some day and take a look. What is it they call you--a Marquise?"

She paled a little, and then flushed again. "What made you do it?" she broke out abruptly.
"I've often wondered."

He laughed. "What--lend you a hand? Why, my business instinct, I suppose. I saw you were in
a tight place that time I ran across you in Paris--and I hadn't any grudge against you. Fact
is, I've never had the time to nurse old scores, and if you neglect 'em they die off like gold-fish."
He was still composedly regarding her. "It's funny to think of your having settled down to
this kind of life; I hope you've got what you wanted. This is a great place you live in."

"Yes; but I see a little too much of it. We live here most of the year." She had meant to give
him the illusion of success, but some underlying community of instinct drew the confession
from her lips.

"That so? Why on earth don't you cut it and come up to Paris?"

"Oh, Raymond's absorbed in the estates--and we haven't got the money. This place eats it all up."

"Well, that sounds aristocratic; but ain't it rather out of date? When the swells are hard-up
nowadays they generally chip off an heirloom." He wheeled round again to the tapestries. "There
are a good many Paris seasons hanging right here on this wall."

"Yes--I know." She tried to check herself, to summon up a glittering equivocation; but his
face, his voice, the very words he used, were like so many hammer-strokes demolishing the unrealities
that imprisoned her. Here was some one who spoke her language, who knew her meanings, who understood
instinctively all the deep-seated wants for which her acquired vocabulary had no terms; and
as she talked she once more seemed to herself intelligent, eloquent and interesting.

"Of course it's frightfully lonely down here," she began; and through the opening made by the
admission the whole flood of her grievances poured forth. She tried to let him see that she
had not sacrificed herself for nothing; she touched on the superiorities of her situation,
she gilded the circumstances of which she called herself the victim, and let titles, offices
and attributes shed their utmost lustre on her tale; but what she had to boast of seemed small
and tinkling compared with the evidences of his power.

"Well, it's a downright shame you don't go round more," he kept saying; and she felt ashamed
of her tame acceptance of her fate.

When she had told her story she asked for his; and for the first time she listened to it with
interest. He had what he wanted at last. The Apex Consolidation scheme, after a long interval
of suspense, had obtained its charter and shot out huge ramifications. Rolliver had "stood
in" with him at the critical moment, and between them they had "chucked out" old Harmon B.
Driscoll bag and baggage, and got the whole town in their control. Absorbed in his theme, and
forgetting her inability to follow him, Moffatt launched out on an epic recital of plot and
counterplot, and she hung, a new Desdemona, on his conflict with the new anthropophagi. It
was of no consequence that the details and the technicalities escaped her: she knew their meaningless
syllables stood for success, and what that meant was as clear as day to her. Every Wall Street
term had its equivalent in the language of Fifth Avenue, and while he talked of building up
railways she was building up palaces, and picturing all the multiple lives he would lead in
them. To have things had always seemed to her the first essential of existence, and as she
listened to him the vision of the things he could have unrolled itself before her like the
long triumph of an Asiatic conqueror.

"And what are you going to do next?" she asked, almost breathlessly, when he had ended.

"Oh, there's always a lot to do next. Business never goes to sleep."

"Yes; but I mean besides business."

"Why--everything I can, I guess." He leaned back in his chair with an air of placid power,
as if he were so sure of getting what he wanted that there was no longer any use in hurrying,
huge as his vistas had become.

She continued to question him, and he began to talk of his growing passion for pictures and
furniture, and of his desire to form a collection which should be a great representative assemblage
of unmatched specimens. As he spoke she saw his expression change, and his eyes grow younger,
almost boyish, with a concentrated look in them that reminded her of long-forgotten things.

"I mean to have the best, you know; not just to get ahead of the other fellows, but because
I know it when I see it. I guess that's the only good reason," he concluded; and he added,
looking at her with a smile: "It was what you were always after, wasn't it?"

XLII

Undine had gained her point, and the entresol of the Hotel de Chelles reopened its doors for
the season.

Hubert and his wife, in expectation of the birth of an heir, had withdrawn to the sumptuous
chateau which General Arlington had hired for them near Compiegne, and Undine was at least
spared the sight of their bright windows and animated stairway. But she had to take her share
of the felicitations which the whole far-reaching circle of friends and relations distributed
to every member of Hubert's family on the approach of the happy event. Nor was this the hardest
of her trials. Raymond had done what she asked--he had stood out against his mother's protests,
set aside considerations of prudence, and consented to go up to Paris for two months; but he
had done so on the understanding that during their stay they should exercise the most unremitting
economy. As dinner-giving put the heaviest strain on their budget, all hospitality was suspended;
and when Undine attempted to invite a few friends informally she was warned that she could
not do so without causing the gravest offense to the many others genealogically entitled to
the same attention.

Raymond's insistence on this rule was simply part of an elaborate and inveterate system of
"relations" (the whole of French social life seemed to depend on the exact interpretation of
that word), and Undine felt the uselessness of struggling against such mysterious inhibitions.
He reminded her, however, that their inability to receive would give them all the more opportunity
for going out, and he showed himself more socially disposed than in the past. But his concession
did not result as she had hoped. They were asked out as much as ever, but they were asked to
big dinners, to impersonal crushes, to the kind of entertainment it is a slight to be omitted
from but no compliment to be included in. Nothing could have been more galling to Undine, and
she frankly bewailed the fact to Madame de Trezac.

"Of course it's what was sure to come of being mewed up for months and months in the country.
We're out of everything, and the people who are having a good time are simply too busy to remember
us. We're only asked to the things that are made up from visiting-lists."

Madame de Trezac listened sympathetically, but did not suppress a candid answer.

"It's not altogether that, my dear; Raymond's not a man his friends forget. It's rather more,
if you'll excuse my saying so, the fact of your being--you personally--in the wrong set."

"The wrong set? Why, I'm in HIS set--the one that thinks itself too good for all the others.
That's what you've always told me when I've said it bored me."

"Well, that's what I mean--" Madame de Trezac took the plunge. "It's not a question of your
being bored."

Undine coloured; but she could take the hardest thrusts where her personal interest was involved.
"You mean that I'M the bore, then?"

