THE BATTLE

OF

THE BIG HOLE.

A HISTORY OF GENERAL GIBBON'S ENGAGEMENT WITH NEZ PERCÉS INDIANS IN THE BIG HOLE VALLEY, MONTANA,
AUGUST 9TH, 1877.

BY

G. O. SHIELDS. ("COQUINA.")

AUTHOR OF "RUSTLINGS IN THE ROCKIES," "HUNTING IN THE GREAT WEST," "CRUISINGS IN THE CASCADES,"
ETC.

CHICAGO AND NEW YORK: RAND, MCNALLY & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, 1889.

COPYRIGHT, 1889, BY RAND, MCNALLY & CO.

INTRODUCTION.

CAMP PILOT BUTTE, WYOMING, March 17 1889.

Mr. G. O. Shields, Chicago, Ill.

DEAR SIR: I have read with a great deal of interest and pleasure the manuscript of your book,
entitled "The Battle of the Big Hole," and as a participant in the tragic affair it describes,
can cheerfully commend it to all who are interested in obtaining a true history of the Nez
Percé campaign. It is a graphic and truthful account of the Big Hole fight, and of the events
leading up to it, and must prove a most valuable contribution to the history of our Indian wars.

I trust the book will meet with the generous reception it deserves.

Yours truly,

CHAS. A. COOLIDGE, Captain Seventh U.S. Infantry.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

The Nez Percé War. Brief Résumé of Events Leading up to it. Various Treaties Between the Tribe
and the United States. Chief Joseph's Unjust Claim to the Wallowa Valley. President Grant's
Proclamation. Atrocities Committed by White Bird and His Followers on Inoffensive Settlers.
Men Massacred and Women Outraged. General Howard's Efforts to Quiet the Malcontents and His
Subsequent Campaign Against Them. The Battles in White Bird and Clearwater Cañons. The Renegades'
Retreat over the Lo Lo Trail. Intercepted by Captain Rawn, They Flank His Position and Continue
Their Flight Through the Bitter Root Valley Toward the "Buffalo Country". General Gibbon in
pursuit      9

CHAPTER II.

Gibbon Reinforced by Citizen Volunteers. Heroic March Across the Rocky Mountain Divide. His
Men Apply Drag Ropes to the Wagons and Aid the Mules in Pulling Them up the Mountain. Lieutenant
Bradley and His Scouts Scale the Divide by Night and Locate the Indian Camp. The March Down
Trail Creek. Soldiers' Fare. Hard Tack and Raw Pork. A Brief Sleep Without Blankets. Perils
of the Situation. Less Than 200 Soldiers and Citizens to Attack 400 Trained Indian Warriors.
Implicit Confidence of Officers and Men in One Another Nerves Them to the Task.           
29

CHAPTER III.

The Stealthy Midnight March. Whispered Commands and Cat-like Movements. Passing Through a Herd
of Ponies. Looking Down on the Hostile Camp. Squaws Keep the Fires While Their Warriors Sleep.
The Barking of Indian Dogs and Howling of Coyotes. Heroic Assault on the Nez Percé Camp at
Day-Break. Temporary Surprise and Subsequent Rally. Terrific Struggle Among the Teepees. The
Fighting Muzzle to Breast. Driven from Their Tents, the Indians Take Cover Under the River
Banks. The Water Runs Crimson With the Blood of Contending Forces. Squaws and Children Fight
Like Demons. Captain Logan Shot Down by One of the She Devils. Rallying Cries of White Bird
and Looking Glass. The Soldiers Take Position in the Mouth of "Battle Gulch". Gallant Conduct
of Officers and Men.                       42

CHAPTER IV.

Stubborn Resistance of Indians in the Pine Woods. Sharpshooting at Short Range. The Struggle
for the Howitzer. Assaulted by Thirty Mounted Indians, Four Soldiers Stand by it until All
Shot Down. The Two Survivors, Though Sorely Wounded, Throw the Gun from the Trunnion and Crawl
Away into the Brush. How Gibbon's Sharpshooters Drove an Indian Marksman from a Pine Tree.
The Redskins Fire the Grass, but a Lucky Turn of the Wind Saves the Soldiers from the Intended
Holocaust. A Supper on Raw Horse. Heroic Conduct of Captain Browning and Lieutenant Woodbridge
in Rescuing the Supply Train and Bringing it up to the Command.                           
64

CHAPTER V.

Retreat of the Indians under Cover of Night. Anecdotes of Personal Heroism. Burying the Dead-List
of Soldiers and Citizens Killed and Wounded. Eighty-nine Dead Indians Found and Buried on the
Field!. Review of the Fight. Importance of its Place in History. Gibbon and His Men Officially
Commended by Generals Sherman, Sheridan, and Terry. Trees Still Standing on the Battle-Ground,
Girdled with Bullets, Tell the Story of the Struggle.                           78

CHAPTER VI.

Testimony of Officers and Men as to the Courage and Fierceness of Nez Percé Warriors in Battle.
All Concede Them to be the Bravest Fighters in the West. General Gibbon's Military Record.
Previous History of Captain Logan and Lieutenants Bradley and English. Present Status and Whereabouts
of Officers Who Participated in the Fight and Who Still Live. Names of Those Who Have Gone
to Their Reward Since That Bloody Day.                                     105

CHAPTER VII.

Description of the Battle Monument. General Howard's Pursuit of the Nez Percés After the Battle
in the Big Hole. Their Final Capture by General Miles. Chief Joseph's Curious Message to Howard.
White Bird's Flight to Woody Mountain. His Sad Plight on Arrival There. He Still Lives Within
the British Lines. Chief Joseph on the Colville Reservation. He Wants "No More Fight" With
White Soldiers.        115

THE BATTLE OF THE BIG HOLE.

CHAPTER I.

The Nez Percé Indians are a powerful and populous tribe, who, for centuries, have made their
home in the Snake, Salmon, and Clear Water Valleys in Washington, Oregon, and Idaho. When the
great tide of civilization, which for years flowed toward the Pacific Coast, finally spread
out into these valleys, questions arose between the emigrants and Indians as to the ownership
of certain lands claimed by the latter, and the United States Government sought to settle these
questions amicably. Commissioners were appointed and sent out to investigate and define the
rights of the Indians, and in 1853, a treaty was concluded between the United States and the
head chiefs and fifty-two of the principal men of the Nez Percé tribe, defining the boundaries
of the country claimed by them, and ceding to the Government certain other lands which they
had formerly occupied, but to which they had set up no valid claim.

In 1863, another treaty was made, modifying these boundaries to some extent, and in 1868, still
another was negotiated at Washington that was finally signed by "Lawyer," head chief of the
Nez Percés, and by "Timothy" and "Jason," sub-chiefs, all of whom claimed to be, and in fact
were, acting for the entire tribe by virtue of authority given them by the tribal laws, and
by a general council of their people assembled for that purpose.

In this treaty, the Indians agreed, for certain considerations that were entirely satisfactory
to them, to relinquish certain portions of their reservation which they agreed were not needed
or used by them, and to remove from said lands within one year from that date; to locate and
live upon the reservation therein designated and described.

The tract relinquished to the United States in this instrument included the Wallowa Valley.
When the chiefs returned to their people and reported their action, Young Joseph repudiated
the treaty, and refused to be bound by it. He claimed the Wallowa Valley as the special home
and inheritance of himself and his people, and said he would continue so to claim it, and to
occupy it whenever he chose, against all other claimants, white or red.

In this dissension he was in time joined by White Bird, Looking Glass, To-hul-hul-sote and
other sub-chiefs, and several hundred warriors. These became known henceforth as the "Non-treaty
Nez Percés." Joseph and his band had never really occupied the valley permanently, and had
never before made any special claim to it as against any other portion of the tribe. He had
frequently gone into it during the summer to fish and hunt, in common with various other bands
of the tribe, but had never staid more than a few weeks at a time, and had made his home during
the greater portion of each year in the Imnaha Valley near the Snake River.

In 1871, a few whites settled in the Wallowa Valley. Joseph protested, became obstreperous,
ordered them away, and threatened violence if they remained, but so far did nothing more than
threaten. Other whites came in the following years and the complications increased. Complaints
were made to the Government that the Indians were annoying and threatening the settlers, and
in 1875 President Grant issued an executive order, proclaiming that the Wallowa Valley was
a part of the public domain and open to settlement by white people.

In May, 1877, Joseph and his band became more arrogant than ever, and again threatened immediate
and violent measures against the settlers if they did not at once withdraw from his country.
Some acts of violence were committed, and at the request of the settlers a company of United
States cavalry was sent to the scene of the disturbance. The Indians were temporarily quieted,
but the feeling of discontent and hatred against the whites was growing.

General Howard, then commanding the Department of the Columbia, repaired to the scene of the
disturbance, and, with J. B. Monteith, agent of the Nez Percés, held several councils with
the malcontents, and argued patiently and persistently to convince them that the treaty, whereby
the Wallowa Valley had been ceded to the Government, was duly signed and ratified by the properly
constituted chiefs of the tribe; that it was valid, and that every member of the tribe was
bound by it; that the white men were only exercising their legal rights in settling on the
land; and the Indians were assured that the whites would be protected in these rights by the
white soldiers if necessary.

They were told in mild but positive terms that they must go on the reservation set apart for
them by their chiefs and the agents of the white father at Washington; and warned that, in
the event of their persistent refusal, soldiers would place them there by force, or so many
of them as should survive in case they resisted. The three chiefs--Joseph, White Bird, and
Looking Glass--finally agreed to go on the reservation, and asked for thirty days' time in
which to collect their people and their horses and place them on the reservation. This was
granted, and the council dispersed.

General Howard did not, however, place implicit faith in the promises of the wily chiefs. He
suspected that this was merely a ruse of the Indians to gain more time for manufacturing sympathy
among other members of the tribe, for gaining accessions to their own ranks, for procuring
additional arms and ammunition, and, in short, for making all necessary preparations for active
hostilities. He therefore proceeded at once to concentrate all available troops in his department
within easy striking distance of the malcontents, in order to be prepared for any emergency.

Before the thirty days asked for had expired, some of White Bird's band appeared in the Wallowa
Valley and murdered a number of defenseless white men and women. All the Indians in the neighborhood
became extremely belligerent and insolent. White Bird rode through the valley and proclaimed
to the whites that the Indians would not go on the reservation; that they were on the war path
and would kill all the whites, soldiers or citizens who should oppose their wishes.

As soon as news of this disturbance reached General Howard, he sent two companies of cavalry,
under Captains Perry and Trimble, to the scene of hostilities, with orders to arrest the perpetrators
of the outrages if possible, and bring them in. Captain Perry found the Indians in force in
White Bird Cañon. They opened fire on him as soon as he came in sight, and he at once assaulted
them. After sharp fighting for an hour, he was repulsed and compelled to retreat to Grangeville,
a distance of sixteen miles. The Indians pursued him, and a running fight continued all the
way. He lost thirty-three enlisted men and one officer killed. Meantime, over twenty white
men and women had been massacred at and near Mount Idaho, and a number of other women outraged
in a most brutal and shocking manner.

General Howard then took the field in person, determined to punish the Indians who had committed
these crimes, and to capture and place them on the reservation. Strong detachments of troops
were sent in various directions, with orders to strike the hostile Indians wherever found.
A number of sharp skirmishes and two severe fights occurred on and near the Clear Water River,
resulting in severe losses to both whites and Indians. The troops moved so rapidly as to harass
the Indians at every turn, and in several cases to intercept them when attempting to leave
the country, and turn them back.

Finally, the main body of hostiles, numbering about 400 warriors and 150 women and children,
by breaking up into several small bands, succeeded in evading the troops, concentrated their
forces on Weyipe Creek, and started for the "buffalo country" in Montana, by way of what is
known as the "Lo Lo trail." As soon as this fact became known to General Howard, he sent couriers
to the nearest telegraph station with a message to General Gibbon, then commanding the district
of Montana, with headquarters at Fort Shaw, stating the facts, and requesting him to send out
troops to intercept the hostiles, if possible, while he should follow them with such force
as could be spared for the purpose.

On receipt of this message, General Gibbon sent an order to Capt. C. C. Rawn, then in command
at Fort Missoula, to watch for the fugitives, to head them off, hold them if possible, or turn
them back. Rawn immediately dispatched a scouting party, consisting of Lieut. Francis Woodbridge
and three men, with orders to proceed up Lo Lo Cañon to the summit of the Rocky Mountain Range,
ascertain, if possible, whether Joseph was really coming on that trail, and if so, to report
the fact to him (Rawn), at the earliest possible moment. Rawn in the meantime prepared his
little command for action. Woodbridge failed to return within the allotted time, and fearing
he had been killed or captured, Lieut. C. A. Coolidge was ordered to take two men and scout
in the same direction, search for him and for the Indians, and especially to examine a trail
that branches off from the Lo Lo on top of the Rocky Mountain Divide, some sixty miles from
Missoula, and ascertain whether the hostiles had gone that way.

These officers met on the divide, but no trace of the Indians could be found, and it was believed
that they had either turned back or taken some other route. Both parties returned to their
post, and reported the facts. Within a few hours after their arrival, however, two Indian runners
came through, bearing messages from Joseph to the commanding officer at Missoula and to the
citizens in the Bitter Root Valley, to the effect that Joseph and his band were coming over
the Lo Lo trail; that they desired to pass through the Bitter Root Valley, en route to the
"buffalo country," and assuring the people that if allowed to do so peaceably they would not
harm the settlers or their property.

It subsequently transpired that Joseph and his band reached the summit of the range only three
hours after Coolidge and Woodbridge had started on their return to the post. Joseph's messengers
were promptly arrested, placed in the guard-house, and kept there until the end of the campaign.
But the news they brought spread like wild fire, and the whole country was alarmed. Captain
Rawn's command consisted of only two companies--his own and Capt. William Logan's (A and I),
of the Seventh Infantry.

Leaving twenty men to guard the post, Captain Rawn moved at once with the remainder of his
force, numbering about fifty men, up Lo Lo Creek. He was joined en route by about one hundred
citizens from the town and surrounding country. At the mouth of the cañon he halted and built
a temporary barricade by felling trees across it and up the north wall to a considerable distance,
the south wall being deemed impregnable without fortifying. The slope to the right was gradual
and cut up with gulches and ravines, some of which extended clear to the top of the mountain.

The next day after Rawn took up this position, Joseph and his followers arrived in front of
the works, sent in a messenger with a flag of truce, asking again that he might be allowed
to pass quietly into and through the valley. Rawn replied that the only condition upon which
he would be allowed to pass, was that he and his warriors should surrender their arms. This
the Indians of course refused to do, and a parley was begun that was prolonged through two
days. Many of the citizens urged Rawn to allow the hostiles to pass on their own terms. They
insisted that to fight Joseph there, with their handful of men, could only result in defeat,
and that if he were compelled to fight at that point, and gained a victory, as he surely would,
he would then leave a trail of blood and ashes behind him through the whole length of the valley.
Others were more confident of success, and were spoiling for a fight then and there, but when,
later on, a fight became imminent, several of these same citizens remembered that they had
urgent business at home.

On the evening of the second day, the negotiations having failed, Joseph notified Rawn that
he should go into the valley the next morning in spite of all opposition. Accordingly at daylight,
firing was heard on the skirmish line, and it was supposed that the Indians would at once assault
the main line. Stray shots continued for some time, and, as all the attention of officers and
men was concentrated on the front, a man called attention of Lieutenant Coolidge to the fact
that he had seen the heads of a few Indians moving down one of the gulches in the rear of the
extreme right. This proved to be the rear guard of Joseph's outfit. The wily savage had outwitted
the troops. He had left a few men to skirmish with Rawn's pickets, and while the command was
expecting an assault in front he, with his motley band, had filed up and down through the gulches
and woods, past the line of works, and was now well on his way down the creek. Rawn at once
deployed his forces and pursued the fugitives, but did not overtake them until they had reached
the Bitter Root Valley and turned up it.

Three miles above the mouth of the creek, he found them encamped on a ridge in a body of timber,
where they had every advantage of position and cover. Their manner was insolent and defiant,
for they seemed to consider themselves masters of the situation. Most of the citizens had now
deserted Rawn; some because they believed the Indians had escaped and that there would be no
fight, others because they believed Rawn would overtake them and that there would be a fight.
Rawn's force was reduced to less than one hundred men, all told, and he saw that to attack
the Indians in their chosen position, outnumbering him as they did, more than four to one,
would be madness. He therefore wisely decided to return to his post and await the reinforcements
that he knew were coming.

Some of the rear critics, who invariably talk loudest after the danger is over, who are "invincible
in peace" and "invisible in war," have accused Captain Rawn of mismanagement, in allowing the
Indians to pass him in the cañon, and of cowardice in not attacking them when he overtook them
in the valley; but all who were there, and competent to judge, agree that the escape of the
savages could not possibly have been prevented with the handful of men he had, and that he
exercised judgment and discretion of a high order in not attacking them on their chosen ground,
when such an attack could only have resulted in a repetition of the Custer massacre. His action
proved, in the end, the wisest he could have taken in a strictly military sense; and, besides,
it saved the Bitter Root country from being devastated; for White Bird said, afterward, that
had the Indians been compelled to fight their way out of Lo Lo they would have fired the whole
country, and many a ranchman would have lost his crops and his home if not his scalp.

But brave old General Gibbon, the hero of South Mountain, was on the war path. On receipt of
General Howard's dispatch that the Nez Percés were coming his way, he hastily summoned Company
F, of his regiment, from Fort Benton, and D from Camp Baker, to move with all possible speed
to his post. Meantime he gave orders that Company K and every man that could be spared from
Fort Shaw should prepare at once for the field. When Companies F and D arrived there, he took
the field at their head, with the troops detailed from his own post, and moved rapidly toward
Fort Missoula, crossing the Rocky Mountains through Cadotte's Pass, carrying a limited supply
of provisions on pack-mules. The distance, 150 miles, over a rough mountainous country, was
covered in seven days, the command reaching Fort Missoula on the afternoon of August 3.

On the 4th, with his command reinforced with Captain Rawn's company, and Company G of the Seventh
from Fort Ellis, General Gibbon left Fort Missoula in pursuit of the Nez Percés. His command
now numbered seventeen officers and 146 men. A wagon-train was taken from Missoula, wherein
the men were allowed to ride wherever the roads were good.

The Indians had passed out of Lo Lo Cañon and started up the Bitter Root on July 28, and were
therefore several days ahead of the troops. They knew that General Howard was yet many days'
march behind them; that Rawn would not dare attack them with his little force of "walking soldiers,"
and not yet having learned the mysterious power of the telegraph wire to carry words, faster
than the swiftest bird can fly, had not the remotest idea that another and larger force was
on their trail.

They therefore moved slowly up this valley, resting and grazing their horses, trading off those
that were worn and foot-sore for fresh ones, and buying from the ranchmen and merchants such
other supplies as they needed, including guns and ammunition. Some of these avaricious whites
not only sold the Indians all the supplies they could while passing, but actually loaded wagons
with meat, vegetables, and such other marketable goods as they had, and followed up the dusky
horde, selling them every penny's worth they could, as long as they remained in the valley.

The Nez Percés had for years been traveling through this valley on their annual trips to and
from the buffalo country, on the Yellowstone and Missouri Rivers, and Chief Joseph and some
of his followers had many personal acquaintances among the settlers.

Some of these whites openly boasted of their acquaintance and "influence" with the red handed
murderers, and gloated over the fact that it enabled them to sell them more goods than they
could have done had they been strangers to the Indians. It is a well-known fact that there
are a number of ranchmen and merchants in the Bitter Root country so greedy, so avaricious,
so passionately fond of the mighty dollar, that they would not scruple to sell a weapon to
an Indian, though they knew he would use it to kill a neighbor with, if only they could realize
a large profit on it. In this case, they bartered openly with these cut-throats and assassins,
receiving in payment for their goods gold that they knew was stained with the blood of innocent
settlers, lately massacred on the Clear Water and Camas prairies, and from whom this gold had
been pilfered. They provided the fugitives with fresh horses and other means of evading their
pursuers, and so of escaping justice. A noble exception to this rule was exhibited, however,
in the case of a Mr. Young of Corvallis, who courageously refused to receive their blood money,
closed his store in their faces, and dared them to do their worst.

Of course, there are many good, fair-minded, honorable men in the Bitter Root Valley; but there
are also a number of sharks, as I know by personal experience. There are men there who will
charge a stranger, or even a neighbor, three or four prices for some commodity, and then if
he ventures to protest against the extortion, will invariably answer him with that ancient
bit of alleged humor, so familiar to the ears of travelers in the far West, to the effect that
they are not out there for their health.

Joseph was reinforced in this valley by eighteen lodges of renegade Nez Percés, who lived off
the reservation, under the leadership of the disreputable chief, "Poker Joe."

The hostiles did not keep their pledge with the ranchmen strictly. Near the head of the valley
lived a man by the name of Lockwood, who, when he heard of the approach of the Indians, took
his family to a place of safety. The Indians passed his ranch during his absence, broke into
his house and rifled it of everything it contained that was of any value to them, including
several hundred pounds of flour and bacon.

During the passage up the valley, White Bird is said to have scented danger, and to have counseled
a more rapid movement toward the great plains. But Looking Glass replied: "We are in no hurry.
The little bunch of soldiers at Missoula are not fools enough to attack us. We will take the
world easy. We are not fighting with the ranchmen of this country." Poor, misguided savage!
He deemed himself the wisest and most cunning of his kind; yet little did he know of the ways
and resources of the white man.

CHAPTER II.

General Gibbon moved as rapidly as his means of transportation would permit, covering thirty
to thirty-five miles per day. In his march through the valley he was joined by thirty-six citizens
who did not sympathize with the kind treatment their neighbors had shown the fugitives, but
who believed that they (the Indians) should be punished for their crimes, and who were anxious
to aid the troops in administering the punishment. The pursuing party gathered all possible
information en route as to the rate of speed at which the Indians were traveling, their numbers,
etc., and from the citizens and the camp sites passed, learned that there were still over 400
of the warriors, and about 150 squaws and children in the band; that the bucks were all armed
with modern breech-loading rifles, many of which were repeaters; that they were amply supplied
with ammunition, and had with them over 2,000 head of good horses. Gibbon ascertained that
he was covering two of their daily marches with one of his, and the question of overtaking
them, became, therefore, merely one of time.

