DANGERS OF THE TRAIL

IN 1865

A Narrative of Actual Events

By CHARLES E. YOUNG

GENEVA, N. Y. 1912

COPYRIGHT, 1912 BY CHARLES E. YOUNG

Press of W. F. Humphrey, Geneva, N. Y. H. DeF. Patterson, Illustrator, Geneva, N. Y.

PREFACE

I present this narrative of actual events on a trip across the plains to Denver, Colorado,
in 1865 and of life in the Far West in the later sixties.

An interesting and valuable feature is a map of the country, made in 1865, by Henry Bowles
of Boston, showing the old Platte River and Smoky Hill Trails of that day before there was
a railroad west of the Missouri River.

Everything is told in a plain but truthful manner, and this little volume is submitted to the
reader for approval or criticism.

                    CHAS. E. YOUNG
July, 1912

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I--Young Man, Go West

CHAPTER II--Arrival at Fort Carney

CHAPTER III--An Attack by the Indians

CHAPTER IV--Denver in 1865

CHAPTER V--A Proof of Marksmanship

CHAPTER VI--On to Leavenworth

CHAPTER VII--A Plucky German

CHAPTER I

"YOUNG MAN, GO WEST"

 Early in 1859 gold was discovered in Colorado, and
Horace Greeley, the well known writer and a power throughout the
country both before and during the Civil War, made, in the interest of
the New York Tribune, of which he was editor, an overland trip to
Denver by the first stage line run in that day. He started from
Leavenworth, Kansas, and with the exception of Mr. Richardson, of the
Boston Journal, was the only passenger in the coach. The trip was
not all that could be desired, for they met with numerous hardships
and many narrow escapes, as did hundreds of others who had preceded
them over that dangerous trail, many never reaching their
destination--having met death at the hands of the cruel Indians of the
plains.

During his stay in Denver Mr. Greeley wrote a number of letters to the New York Tribune, confirming
the finding of gold in the territory and advising immigration. The people in the East were
skeptical in regard to its discovery and awaited a written statement from him to this effect.

At the close of the war Mr. Greeley's advice to young men, through the columns of his paper,
was to go West and grow up with the country, and it became a byword throughout the State of
New York and the Nation, "Young man, go West and grow up with the country."

Could Mr. Greeley have foreseen the number of young lives that were to be sacrificed through
his advice, I think he would have hesitated before giving it; yet, it was the most valued utterance
of any public man of that day for the settlement of the then Far West.

After reading a number of these letters in the New York Tribune, I became very enthusiastic
over the opportunities that the West offered for the young man. There was also a loyal friend
of mine who became as enthusiastic over it as myself. Thus, while we were still so young as
to be called boys, we made up our minds to follow Mr. Greeley's advice, and "Go West and grow
up with the country."

In making our purchases for the trip we were obliged to make our plans known to an acquaintance,
who at once expressed a desire to accompany us. After consultation, we consented and at the
appointed time, the fore part of July, 1865, just at the close of the Civil War, we boarded
a New York Central train at the depot in Geneva, N. Y., with no thought of the hardships and
dangers we would be called upon to meet.

The first night found us at the Falls of Niagara--the most stupendous production of nature
that the country was known to possess at that time. Our time was divided between the American
and Canadian sides, viewing the grand spectacle at all hours, from the rising to the setting
of the sun; and, awed by the marvelous masterpiece of grandeur, we were held as if fascinated
by its beauty, until we were forced to leave for the want of food and to replenish our commissary.
When we boarded the cars to be whirled through the then wilds of Lower Canada, we were liberally
supplied with the best the country produced.

Upon the fifth day we rolled into Chicago, the cosmopolitan city of the West. Two days later
we reached Quincy, Ill., where we made connection with the old Hannibal & St. Joe Railroad
which was to take us through Missouri to Atchison, Kansas. Missouri, after the war, was not
an ideal state for a law abiding citizen, much less for inexperienced youths of our age, and
we quickly realized that fact. Many stations had their quota of what was termed the Missouri
bushwhacker, or, more plainly speaking, outlaws, who, during the war and for some time after,
pillaged the state and surrounding country, leaving in their wake death and destruction. They
had belonged to neither side at war, but were a set of villians banded together to plunder,
burn, ravage and murder young and old alike; as wicked a set of villians as the world has ever
known. At many stations they would nearly fill the car, making it very unpleasant for the passengers.
Their language and insults caused every one to be guarded in conversation. The condition of
the road, however, often gave us relief, as we were obliged to alight and walk, at times, when
arriving at a point where ties or rails had to be replaced. Its entire length showed the carnage
and destruction of war, making travel slow and dangerous as well as uncomfortable. On reaching
the state of bleeding Kansas and the then village of Atchison we were about used up. We at
once called at the Ben Holiday Stage Office and inquired the price of a ticket to Denver, but
finding it to be beyond our means, we decided to go by ox conveyance.

COMMANCHE BILL

We were not long in finding what, in those days, was called a tavern, located in the outskirts
of the town. Having been chosen spokesman, I stepped up to the rough board counter and registered.
We were soon confronted by the toughest individual we had yet seen. I pleasantly bade him good
morning but received no immediate recognition, save a wild stare from two horrible, bloodshot
eyes. I quickly came to the conclusion that we were up against the real Western article, nor
was I mistaken. He didn't keep up waiting long, for he soon roared out an oath and wanted to
know where we were from. After telling him as near as I possibly could, under the circumstances,
he again became silent. His look and brace of revolvers were not reassuring, to say the least.
He soon came out of his trance and did not keep us long in suspense, for his next act was to
pull out both of his life-takers, and, not in very choice language, introduce himself as Commanche
Bill from Arkansas, emphasizing the Arkansas by letting the contents of both of his instruments
of death pierce the ceiling of his story and a half shack. I have wondered many times since
that I am alive. We had been told by a fellow passenger that Atchison was a little short of
Hades, and we were fast realizing that our informer was not far out of the way; yet, it was
a haven in comparison to other places at which we were yet to arrive. Commanche William, or
whatever his right name might have been, was a different person after his forceful introduction.

He began to question me. He asked me if we had any money.

"Yes."

"Any friends?"

"Certainly."

"Well, then you had better get straight back to them, for if you remain in these parts long,
they will be unable to recognize you. Where are you fellows headed for, anyway?"

"Denver, Colorado."

"By stage?"

"No, sir. By ox or mule conveyance."

"You are too light weight. No freighter will hire you."

"They will or we'll walk."

"You will not walk far for the Indians along the Platte are ugly. By the way, do you pards
ever take anything?"

