"More love, Martha!" said Susanna when she met Martha a little later in the day.

"More love, Susanna!" Martha replied cheerily. "You heard our Shaker greeting, I see! It was
the beautiful weather, the fine air and glorious colors, that brought the inspiration this
morning, I guess! It took us all out of doors, and then it seemed to get into the blood. Besides,
tomorrow's the Day of Sacrifice, and that takes us all on to the mountaintops of feeling. There
have been times when I had to own up to a lack of love."

"You, Martha, who have such wonderful influence over the children, such patience, such affection!"

"It was n't always so. When I was first put in charge of the children, I did n't like the work.
They did n't respond to me somehow, and when they were out of my sight they were ugly and disobedient.
My natural mother, Maria Holmes, took care of the girls' clothing. One day she said to me,
'Martha, do you love the girls?'

"'Some of them are very unlovely,' I replied.

"'I know that,' she said, 'but you can never help them unless you love them.'

"I thought mother very critical, for I strove scrupulously to do my duty. A few days after
this the Elder said to me: 'Martha, do you love the girls?' I responded, 'Not very much.'

"'You cannot save them unless you love them,' he said. Then I answered, 'I will labor for a
gift of love.'

"When the work of the day was over, and the girls were in bed, I would take off my shoes and
spend several hours of the night walking the floor, kneeling in prayer that I might obtain
the coveted gift. For five weeks I did this without avail, when suddenly one night when the
moon was full and I was kneeling by the window, a glory seemed to overshadow the crest of a
high mountain in the distance. I thought I heard a voice say: 'Martha, I baptize you into the
spirit of love!' I sat there trembling for more than an hour, and when I rose, I felt that
I could love the meanest human being that ever walked the earth. I have never had any trouble
with children since that night of the vision. They seem different to me, and I dare say I am
different to them."

"I wish I could see visions!" exclaimed Susanna. "Oh, for a glory that would speak to me and
teach me truth and duty! Life is all mist, whichever way I turn. I'd like to be lifted on to
a high place where I could see clearly."

She leaned against the frame of the open kitchen door, her delicate face quivering with emotion
and longing, her attitude simplicity and unconsciousness itself. The baldest of Shaker prose
turned to purest poetry when Susanna dipped it in the alembic of her own imagination.

"Labor for the gift of sight!" said Martha, who believed implicitly in spirits and visions.
"Labor this very night."

It must be said for Susanna that she had never ceased laboring in her own way for many days.
The truth was that she felt herself turning from marriage. She had lived now so long in the
society of men and women who regarded it as an institution not compatible with the highest
spiritual development that unconsciously her point of view had changed; changed all the more
because she had been so unhappy with the man she had chosen. Curiously enough, and unfortunately
enough for Susanna Hathaway's peace of mind, the greater aversion she felt towards the burden
of the old life, towards the irksomeness of guiding a weaker soul, towards the claims of husband
on wife, the stronger those claims appeared. If they had never been assumed!--Ah, but they
had; there was the rub! One sight of little Sue sleeping tranquilly beside her; one memory
of rebellious, faulty Jack; one vision of John, either as needing or missing her, the rightful
woman, or falling deeper in the wiles of the wrong one for very helplessness;--any of these
changed Susanna the would-be saint, in an instant, into Susanna the wife and mother.

"Speak to me for Thy Compassion's sake," she prayed from the little book of Confessions that
her mother had given her. "I will follow after Thy Voice!"

"Would you betray your trust?" asked conscience.

"No, not intentionally."

"Would you desert your post?"

"Never, willingly."

"You have divided the family; taken a little quail bird out of the home-nest and left sorrow
behind you. Would God justify you in that?"

For the first time Susanna's "No" rang clearly enough for her to hear it plainly; for the first
time it was followed by no vague misgivings, no bewilderment, no unrest or indecision. "I turn
hither and hither; Thy purposes are hid from me, but I commend my soul to Thee!"

Then a sentence from the dear old book came into her memory: "And thy dead things shall revive,
and thy weak things shall be made whole."

She listened, laying hold of every word, till the nervous clenching of her hands subsided,
her face relaxed into peace. Then she lay down beside Sue, creeping close to her for the warmth
and comfort and healing of her innocent touch, and, closing her eyes serenely, knew no more
till the morning broke, the Sabbath morning of Confession Day.

X. Brother and Sister

If Susanna's path had grown more difficult, more filled with anxieties, so had John Hathaway's.
The protracted absence of his wife made the gossips conclude that the break was a final one.
Jack was only half contented with his aunt, and would be fairly mutinous in the winter, while
Louisa's general attitude was such as to show clearly that she only kept the boy for Susanna's
sake.

Now and then there was a terrifying hint of winter in the air, and the days of Susanna's absence
seemed eternal to John Hathaway. Yet he was a man about whom there would have been but one
opinion: that when deprived of a rather superior and high-minded wife and the steadying influence
of home and children, he would go completely "to the dogs," whither he seemed to be hurrying
when Susanna's wifely courage failed. That he had done precisely the opposite and the unexpected
thing, shows us perhaps that men are not on the whole as capable of estimating the forces of
their fellow men as is God the maker of men, who probably expects something of the worst of
them up to the very last.

It was at the end of a hopeless Sunday when John took his boy back to his aunt's towards night.
He wondered drearily how a woman dealt with a ten-year-old boy who from sunrise to sunset had
done every mortal thing he ought not to have done, and had left undone everything that he had
been told to do; and, as if to carry out the very words of the church service, neither was
there any health in him; for he had an inflamed throat and a whining, irritable, discontented
temper that could be borne only by a mother, a father being wholly inadequate and apparently
never destined for the purpose.

It was a mild evening late in October, and Louisa sat on the porch with her pepper-and-salt
shawl on and a black wool "rigolette" tied over her head. Jack, very sulky and unresigned,
was dispatched to bed under the care of the one servant, who was provided with a cupful of
vinegar, salt, and water, for a gargle. John had more than an hour to wait for a returning
train to Farnham, and although ordinarily he would have preferred to spend the time in the
silent and unreproachful cemetery rather than in the society of his sister Louisa, he was too
tired and hopeless to do anything but sit on the steps and smoke fitfully in the semidarkness.
Louisa was much as usual. She well knew--who better?--her brother's changed course of life,
but neither encouragement nor compliment were in her line. Why should a man be praised for
living a respectable life? That John had really turned a sort of moral somersault and come
up a different creature, she did not realize in the least, nor the difficulties surmounted
in such a feat; but she did give him credit secretly for turning about face and behaving far
more decently than she could ever have believed possible. She had no conception of his mental
torture at the time, but if he kept on doing well, she privately intended to inform Susanna
and at least give her a chance of trying him again, if absence had diminished her sense of
injury. One thing that she did not know was that John was on the eve of losing his partnership.
When Jack had said that his father was not going back to the store the next week, she thought
it meant simply a vacation. Divided hearts, broken vows, ruined lives she could bear the sight
of these with considerable philosophy, but a lost income was a very different, a very tangible
thing. She almost lost her breath when her brother knocked the ashes from his meerschaum and
curtly told her of the proposed change in his business relations.

"I don't know what I shall do yet," he said, "whether I shall set up for myself in a small
way or take a position in another concern,--that is, if I can get one--my stock of popularity
seems to be pretty low just now in Farnham. I'd move away tomorrow and cut the whole gossipy,
deceitful, hypocritical lot of 'em if I was n't afraid of closing the house and so losing Susanna,
if she should ever feel like coming back to us."

These words and the thought back of them were too much for John's self-control. The darkness
helped him and his need of comfort was abject. Suddenly he burst out, "Oh, Louisa, for heaven's
sake, give me a little crumb of comfort, if you have any! How can you stand like a stone all
these months and see a man suffering as I have suffered, without giving him a word?"

"You brought it on yourself," said Louisa, in self-exculpation.

"Does that make it any easier to bear?" cried John. "Don't you suppose I remember it every
hour, and curse myself the more? You know perfectly well that I'm a different man today. I
don't know what made me change; it was as if something had been injected into my blood that
turned me against everything I had liked best before. I hate the sight of the men and the women
I used to go with, not because they are any worse, but because they remind me of what I have
lost. I have reached the point now where I have got to have news of Susanna or go and shoot
myself."

"That would be about the only piece of foolishness you have n't committed already!" replied
Louisa, with a biting satire that would have made any man let go of the trigger in case he
had gone so far as to begin pulling it.

"Where is she?" John went on, without anger at her sarcasm. "Where is she, how is she, what
is she living on, is she well, is she just as bitter as she was at first, does she ever speak
of coming back? Tell me something, tell me anything. I will know something. I say I will!"

Louisa's calm demeanor began to show a little agitation, for she was not used to the sight
of emotion. "I can't tell you where Susanna is, for I made her a solemn promise I would n't
unless you or Jack were in danger of some kind; but I don't mind telling you this much, that
she's well and in the safest kind of a shelter, for she's been living from the first in a Shaker
Settlement."

"Shaker Settlement!" cried John, starting up from his seat on the steps. "What's that? I know
Shaker egg-beaters and garden-seeds and rocking-chairs and oh, yes, I remember their religion's
against marriage. That's the worst thing you could have told me; that ends all hope; if they
once get hold of a woman like Susanna, they'll never let go of her; if they don't believe in
a woman's marrying a good man, they'd never let her go back to a bad one. Oh, if I had only
known this before; if only you'd told me, Louisa, perhaps I could have done something. Maybe
they take vows or sign contracts, and so I have lost her altogether."

"I don't know much about their beliefs, and Susanna never explained them," returned Louisa,
nervously "but now that you've got something to offer her, why don't you write and ask her
to come back to you? I'll send your letter to her."

"I don't dare, Louisa, I don't dare," groaned John, leaning his head against one of the pillars
of the porch. "I can't tell you the fear I have of Susanna after the way I've neglected her
this last year. If she should come in at the gate this minute, I could n't meet her eyes; if
you'd read the letter she left me, you'd feel the same way. I deserved it, to the last word,
but oh, it was like so many separate strokes of lightning, and every one of them burned. It
was nothing but the truth, but it was cut in with a sharp sword. Unless she should come back
to me of her own accord, and she never will, I have n't got the courage to ask her; just have
n't got the courage, that's all there is to say about it." And here John buried his head in
his hands.

A very queer thing happened to Louisa Banks at this moment. A half-second before she would
have murmured:

    "This rock shall fly From its firm base as soon as I!"

when all at once, and without warning, a strange something occurred in the organ which she
had always regarded and her opinion had never yet been questioned as a good, tough, love-tight
heart. First there was a flutter and a tremor running all along her spine; then her eyes filled;
then a lump rose in her throat and choked her; then words trembled on her tongue and refused
to be uttered; then something like a bird--could it have been the highly respectable good-as-new
heart?--throbbed under her black silk Sunday waist; then she grew like wax from the crown of
her head to the soles of her feet; then in a twinkling, and so unconsciously as to be unashamed
of it, she became a sister.

You have seen a gray November morning melt into an Indian summer noon? Louisa Banks was like
that, when, at the sight of a man in sore trouble, sympathy was born in her to soften the rockiness
of her original makeup.

"There, there, John, don't be so downhearted," she stammered, drawing her chair closer and
putting her hand on his shoulder. "We'll bring it round right, you see if we don't. You've
done the most yourself already, for I'm proud of the way you've acted, stiffening right up
like an honest man and showing you've got some good sensible Hathaway stuff in you, after all,
and ain't ashamed to turn your back on your evil ways. Susanna ain't one to refuse forgiveness."

"She forgave for a long time, but she refused at last. Why should she change now?" John asked.

"You remember she has n't heard a single word from you, nor about you, in that out-of-the-way
place where she's been living," said Louisa, consolingly. "She thinks you're the same as you
were, or worse, maybe. Perhaps she's waiting for you to make some sign through me, for she
don't know that you care anything about her, or are pining to have her back."

"Such a woman as Susanna must know better than that!" cried John. "She ought to know that when
a man got used to living with anybody like her, he could never endure any other kind."

"How should she know all that? Jack's been writing to her and telling her the news for the
last few weeks, though I have n't said a word about you because I did n't know how long your
reformation was going to hold out; but I won't let the grass grow under my feet now, till I
tell her just how things stand!"

"You're a good woman, Louisa; I don't see why I never noticed it before."

"It's because I've been concealing my goodness too much. Stay here with me tonight and don't
go back to brood in that dismal, forsaken house. We'll see how Jack is in the morning, and
if he's all right, take him along with you, so's to be all there together if Susanna comes
back this week, as I kind of hope she will. Make Ellen have the house all nice and cheerful
from top to bottom, with a good supper ready to put on the table the night she comes. You'd
better pick your asters and take 'em in for the parlor, then I'll cut the chrysanthemums for
you in the middle of the week. The day she comes I'll happen in, and stay to dinner if you
find it's going to be mortifying for you; but if everything is as I expect it will be, and
the way Susanna always did have things, I'll make for home and leave you to yourselves. Susanna
ain't one to nag and hector and triumph over a man when he's repented."

John hugged Louisa, pepper-and-salt shawl, black rigolette, and all, when she finished this
unprecedented speech; and when he went to sleep that night in the old north chamber, the one
he and Louisa had been born in, the one his father and mother had died in, it was with a little
smile of hope on his lips.

  Set her place at hearth and board
  As it used to be!

These were the last words that crossed his waking thoughts. Before Louisa went to her own bed,
she wrote one of her brief and characteristic epistles to Susanna, but it did not reach her,
for the "hills of home" had called John's wife so insistently on that Sunday, that the next
day found her on her way back to Farnham.

Dear Susanna [so the letter read], There's a new man in your house at Farnham. His name is
John Hathaway, but he's made all over and it was high time. I say it's the hand of God! He
won't own up that it is, but I'm letting him alone, for I've done quarreling, though I don't
like to see a man get religion and deny it, for all the world like Peter in the New Testament.
If you have n't used up the last one of your seventy-times-sevens, I think you'd better come
back and forgive your husband. If you don't, you'd better send for your son. I'm willing to
bear the burdens the Lord intends specially for me, but Jack belongs to you, and a good-sized
heavy burden he is, too, for his age. I can't deny that, if he is a Hathaway. I think he's
the kind of a boy that ought to be put in a barrel and fed through the bunghole till he grows
up; but of course I'm not used to children's ways.

Be as easy with John at first as you can. I know you 'll say I never was with my husband, but
he was different, he got to like a bracing treatment, Adlai did. Many's the time he said to
me, "Louisa, when you make up our minds, I'm always contented." But John is n't made that way.
He's a changed man; now, what we've got to do is to keep him changed. He does n't bear you
any grudge for leaving him, so he won't reproach you.

Hoping to see you before long, I am,

Yours as usual,

Louisa Banks.

XI. "The Open Door"

On the Saturday evening before the yearly Day of Sacrifice the spiritual heads of each Shaker
family called upon all the Believers to enter heartily next day into the humiliations and blessings
of open confession.

The Sabbath dawns upon an awed and solemn household. Footfalls are hushed, the children's chatter
is stilled, and all go to the morning meal in silence. There is a strange quiet, but it is
not sadness; it is a hush, as when in Israel's camp the silver trumpets sounded and the people
stayed in their tents. "Then," Elder Gray explained to Susanna, "a summons comes to each Believer,
for all have been searching the heart and scanning the life of the months past. Softly the
one called goes to the door of the one appointed by the Divine Spirit, the human representative
who is to receive the gift of the burdened soul. Woman confesses to woman, man to man; it is
the open door that leads to God."

Susanna lifted Eldress Abby's latch and stood in her strong, patient presence; then all at
once she knelt impulsively and looked up into her serene eyes.

"Do you come as a Believer, Susanna?" tremblingly asked the Eldress.

"No, Eldress Abby. I come as a child of the world who wants to go back to her duty, and hopes
to do it better than she ever did before. She ought to be able to, because you have chastened
her pride, taught her the lesson of patience, strengthened her will, purified her spirit, and
cleansed her soul from bitterness and wrath. I waited till afternoon when all the confessions
were over. May I speak now?"

Eldress Abby bowed, but she looked weak and stricken and old.

"I had something you would have called a vision last night, but I think of it as a dream, and
I know just what led to it. You told me Polly Reed's story, and the little quail bird had such
a charm for Sue that I've repeated it to her more than once. In my sleep I seemed to see a
mother quail with a little one beside her. The two were always together, happily flying or
hopping about under the trees; but every now and then I heard a sad little note, as of a deserted
bird somewhere in the wood. I walked a short distance, and parting the branches, saw on the
open ground another parent bird and a young one by its side darting hither and thither, as
if lost; they seemed to be restlessly searching for something, and always they uttered the
soft, sad note, as if the nest had disappeared and they had been parted from the little flock.
Of course my brain had changed the very meaning of the Shaker story and translated it into
different terms, but when I woke this morning, I could think of nothing but my husband and
my boy. The two of them seemed to me to be needing me, searching for me in the dangerous open
country, while I was hidden away in the safe shelter of the wood--I and the other little quail
bird I had taken out of the nest."

"Do you think you could persuade your husband to unite with us?" asked Abby, wiping her eyes.

The tension of the situation was too tightly drawn for mirth, or Susanna could have smiled,
but she answered soberly, "No; if John could develop the best in himself, he could be a good
husband and father, a good neighbor and citizen, and an upright business man, but never a Shaker."

"Did n't he insult your wifely honor and disgrace your home?" "Yes, in the last few weeks before
I left him. All his earlier offenses were more against himself than me, in a sense. I forgave
him many a time, but I am not certain it was the seventy times seven that the Bible bids us.
I am not free from blame myself. I was hard the last year, for I had lost hope and my pride
was trailing in the dust. I left him a bitter letter, one without any love or hope or faith
in it, just because at the moment I believed I ought, once in my life, to let him know how
I felt toward him."

"How can you go back and live under his roof with that feeling? It's degradation."

"It has changed. I was morbid then, and so wounded and weak that I could not fight any longer.
I am rested now, and calm. My pluck has come back, and my strength. I've learned a good deal
here about casting out my own devils; now I am going home and help him to cast out his. Perhaps
he won't be there; perhaps he does n't want me, though when he was his very best self he loved
me dearly; but that was long, long ago!" sighed Susanna, drearily.

"Oh, this thing the world's people call love!" groaned Abby.

"There is love and love, even in the world outside; for if it is Adam's world it is God's,
too, Abby! The love I gave my husband was good, I think, but it failed somewhere, and I am
going back to try again. I am not any too happy in leaving you and taking up, perhaps, heavier
burdens than those from which I escaped."

"Night after night I've prayed to be the means of leading you to the celestial life," said
the Eldress, "but my plaint was not worthy to be heard. Oh, that God would increase our numbers
and so revive our drooping faith! We work, we struggle, we sacrifice, we pray, we defy the
world and deny the flesh, yet we fail to gather in Believers."

"Don't say you 've failed, dear, dear Abby!" cried Susanna, pressing the Eldress's work-stained
hands to her lips. "God speaks to you in one voice, to me in another. Does it matter so much
as long as we both hear Him? Surely it's the hearing and the obeying that counts most! Wish
me well, dear friend, and help me to say goodbye to the Elder."

The two women found Elder Gray in the office, and Abby, still unresigned, laid Susanna's case
before him.

"The Great Architect has need of many kinds of workmen in His building," said the Elder. "There
are those who are willing to put aside the ties of flesh for the kingdom of heaven's sake;
'he that is able to receive it, let him receive it!'"

"There may also he those who are willing to take up the ties of the flesh for the kingdom of
heaven's sake," answered Susanna, gently, but with a certain courage.

Her face glowed with emotion, her eyes shone, her lips were parted. It was a new thought. Abby
and Daniel gazed at her for a moment without speaking, then Daniel said: "It's a terrible cross
to some of the Brethren and Sisters to live here outside of the world, but maybe it's more
of a cross for such as you to live in it, under such conditions as have surrounded you of late
years. To pursue good and resist evil, to bear your cross cheerfully and to grow in grace and
knowledge of truth while you're bearing it that's the lesson of life, I suppose. If you find
you can't learn it outside, come back to us, Susanna."

"I will," she promised, "and no words can speak my gratitude for what you have all done for
me. Many a time it will come back to me and keep me from faltering."

She looked back at him from the open doorway, timidly.

"Don't forget us, Sue and me, altogether," she said, her eyes filling with tears. "Come to
Farnham, if you will, and see if I am a credit to Shaker teaching! I shall never be here again,
perhaps, and somehow it seems to me as if you, Elder Gray, with your education and your gifts,
ought to be leading a larger life than this."

"I've hunted in the wild Maine forests, in my young days; I've speared salmon in her rivers
and shot rapids ill a birchbark canoe," said the Elder, looking up from the pine table that
served as a desk. "I've been before the mast and seen strange countries; I've fought Indians;
I've faced perils on land and sea; but this Shaker life is the greatest adventure of all!"

"Adventure?" echoed Susanna, uncomprehendingly.

"Adventure!" repeated the Elder, smiling at his own thoughts. "Whether I fail, or whether I
succeed, it's a splendid adventure in ethics."

Abby and Daniel looked at each other when Susanna passed out of the office door.

"'They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would have
continued with us,'" he quoted quietly.

Abby wiped her eyes with her apron. "It's a hard road to travel sometimes, Daniel!" she said.

"Yee; but think where it leads, Abby, think where it leads! You're not going to complain of
dust when you're treading the King's Highway!"

Susanna left the office with a drooping head, knowing the sadness that she had left behind.
Brother Ansel sat under the trees near by, and his shrewd eye perceived the drift of coming events.

"Well, Susanna," he drawled, "you're goin' to leave us, like most o' the other 'jiners.' I
can see that with one eye shut."

"Yes," she replied with a half smile; "but you see, Ansel, I 'jined' John Hathaway before I
knew anything about Shaker doctrines."

"Yee; but what's to prevent your onjinin' him? They used to tie up married folks in the old
times so't they could n't move an inch. When they read the constitution and bylaws over 'em
they used to put in 'till death do us part.' That's the way my father was hitched to his three
wives, but death did 'em part--fortunately for him!"

"'Till death us do part' is still in the marriage service," Susanna said, "and I think of it
very often."

"I want to know if that's there yit!" exclaimed Ansel, with apparent surprise; "I thought they
must be leavin' it out, there's so much onjinin' nowadays! Well, accordin' to my notions, if
there is anything wuss 'n marriage, it's hevin' it hold till death, for then menfolks don't
git any chance of a speritual life till afterwards. They certainly don't when they're being
dragged down by women-folks an' young ones."

"I think the lasting part of the bargain makes it all the more solemn," Susanna argued.

"Oh, yes, it's solemn enough, but so's a prayer meetin', an' consid'able more elevatin' ";
and here Ansel regarded the surrounding scenery with frowning disapproval, as if it left much
to be desired.

"Don't you think that there are any agreeable and pleasant women, Ansel?" ventured Susanna.

"Land, yes; heaps of 'em; but they all wear Shaker bunnits!"

"I suppose you know more about the women in the outside world than most of the Brothers, on
account of traveling so much?"

"I guess anybody 't drives a seed-cart or peddles stuff along the road knows enough o' women
to keep clear of 'em. They 'll come out the kitchen door, choose their papers o' seasonin'
an' bottles o' flavorin', worry you 'bout the price an' take the aidge off every dime, make
up an' then onmake their minds 'bout what they want, ask if it's pure, an' when by good luck
you git your cart out o' the yard, they come runnin' along the road after ye to git ye to swap
a bottle o' vanilla for some spruce gum an' give 'em back the change."

Susanna could not help smiling at Ansel's arraignment of her sex. "Do you think they follow
you for the pleasure of shopping, or the pleasure of your conversation, Ansel?" she asked slyly.

"A little o' both, mebbe; though the pleasure's all on their side," returned the unchivalrous
Ansel. "But take them same women, cut their hair close to their heads (there's a heap o' foolishness
in hair, somehow), purge 'em o' their vanity, so they won't be lookin' in the glass all the
time, make 'em depend on one another for sassiety, so they won't crave no conversation with
menfolks, an' you git an article that's 'bout as good and 'bout as stiddy as a man!"

"You never seem to remember that men are just as dangerous to women's happiness and goodness
as women are to men's," said Susanna, courageously.

"It don't seem so to me! Never see a man, hardly, that could stick to the straight an' narrer
if a woman wanted him to go the other way. Weak an' unstable as water, menfolks are, an' women
are pow'ful strong."

"Have your own way, Ansel! I'm going back to the world, but no man shall ever say I hindered
him from being good. You'll see women clearer in another world."

"There'll be precious few of 'em to see!" retorted Ansel. "You're about the best o' the lot,
but even you have a kind of a managin' way with ye, besides fillin' us all full o' false hopes
that we'd gathered in a useful Believer, one cal'lated to spread the doctrines o' Mother Ann!"

"I know, I know, Ansel, and oh, how sorry I am! You would never believe how I long to stay
and help you, never believe how much you have helped me! Goodbye, Ansel; you've made me smile
when my heart was breaking. I shan't forget you!"

XII. The Hills of Home

Susanna had found Sue in the upper chamber at the Office Building, and began to make the simple
preparations for her homeward journey. It was the very hour when John Hathaway was saying:--

  "Set her place at hearth and board
   As it used to be."

Sue interfered with the packing somewhat by darting to and fro, bringing her mother sacred
souvenirs given her by the Shaker sisters and the children--needle-books, pin-balls, thimble-cases,
packets of flower-seeds, polished pebbles, bottles of flavoring extract.

"This is for Fardie," she would say, "and this for Jack and this for Ellen and this for Aunt
Louisa--the needle-book, 'cause she's so useful. Oh, I'm glad we're going home, Mardie, though
I do love it here, and I was most ready to be a truly Shaker. It's kind of pityish to have
your hair shingled and your stocking half-knitted and know how to say 'yee' and then have it
all wasted."

Susanna dropped a tear on the dress she was folding. The child was going home, as she had come
away from it, gay, irresponsible, and merry; it was only the mothers who hoped and feared and
dreaded. The very universe was working toward Susanna's desire at that moment, but she was
all unaware of the happiness that lay so near. She could not see the freshness of the house
in Farnham, the new bits of furniture here and there; the autumn leaves in her own bedroom;
her worktable full of the records of John's sorrowful summer; Jack handsomer and taller, and
softer, also, in his welcoming mood; Ellen rosy and excited. She did not know that Joel Atterbury
had said to John that day, "I take it all back, old man, and I hope you'll stay on in the firm!"
nor that Aunt Louisa, who was putting stiff, short-stemmed chrysanthemums in cups and tumblers
here and there through the house, was much more flexible and human than was natural to her;
nor that John, alternating between hope and despair, was forever humming:

  "Set her place at hearth and board
  As it used to be:
  Higher are the hills of home,
  Bluer is the sea!"

It is often so. They who go weeping to look for the dead body of a sorrow, find a vision of
angels where the body has lain.

"I hope Fardie 'll be glad to see us and Ellen will have gingerbread," Sue chattered; then,
pausing at the window, she added, "I'm sorry to leave the hills, 'cause I 'specially like them,
don't you, Mardie?"

"We are leaving the Shaker hills, but we are going to the hills of home," her mother answered
cheerily. "Don't you remember the Farnham hills, dear?"

"Yes, I remember," and Sue looked thoughtful; "they were farther off and covered with woods;
these are smooth and gentle. And we shall miss the lake, Mardie."

"Yes; but we can look at the blue sea from your bedroom window, Sue!"

"And we'll tell Fardie about Polly Reed and the little quail bird, won't we?"

"Yes; but he and Jack will have a great deal to say to us, and we must n't talk all the time
about the dear, kind Shakers, you know!"

"You're all 'buts,' Mardie!" at which Susanna smiled through her tears.

Twilight deepened into dusk, and dusk into dark, and then the moon rose over the poplar trees
outside the window where Susanna and Sue were sleeping. The Shaker Brethren and Sisters were
resting serenely after their day of confession. It was the aged Tabitha's last Sabbath on earth,
but had she known, it would have made no difference; if ever a soul was ready for heaven, it
was Tabitha's.

There was an Irish family at the foot of the long hill that lay between the Settlement and
the village of Albion; father, mother, and children had prayed to the Virgin before they went
to bed; and the gray-haired minister in the low-roofed parsonage was writing his communion
sermon on a text sacred to the orthodox Christian world. The same moon shone over all, and
over millions of others worshiping strange idols and holding strange beliefs in strange far
lands, yet none of them owned the whole of heaven; for as Elder Gray said, "It is a big place
and belongs to God."

Susanna Hathaway went back to John thinking it her plain duty, and to me it seems beautiful
that she found waiting for her at the journey's end a new love that was better than the old;
found a husband to whom she could say in that first sacred hour when they were alone together,
"Never mind, John! Let's forget, and begin all over again."

When Susanna and Sue alighted at the little railway station at Farnham, and started to walk
through the narrow streets that led to the suburbs, the mother's heart beat more and more tumultuously
as she realized that the issues of four lives would be settled before nightfall.

Little did Sue reck of life issues, skipping like a young roe from one side of the road to
the other. "There are the hills, not a bit changed, Mardie!" she cried; "and the sea is just
where it was!... Here's the house with the parrot, do you remember? Now the place where the
dog barks and snarls is coming next... P'raps he'll be dead.., or p'raps he'll be nicer...
Keep close to me till we get past the gate... He did n't come out, so p'raps he is dead or
gone a-visiting.... There's that 'specially lazy cow that's always lying down in the Buxtons'
field.... I don't b'lieve she's moved since we came away.... Do you s'pose she stands up to
be milked, Mardie? There's the old bridge over the brook, just the same, only the woodbine's
red.... There's... There's... Oh, Mardie, look, look!... I do b'lieve it's our Jacky!"

Sue flew over the ground like a swallow, calling "Jack-y! Jack-y! It's me and Mardie come home!"

Jack extricated himself from his sister's strangling hug and settled his collar. "I'm awful
glad to see you, Sukey," he said, "but I'm getting too big to be kissed. Besides, my pockets
are full of angleworms and fishhooks."

"Are you too big to be kissed even by mother?" called Susanna, hurrying to her boy, who submitted
to her embrace with better grace. "O Jack, Jack! say you're glad to see mother! Say it, say
it; I can't wait, Jack!"

"'Course I'm glad! Why would n't I be? I tell you I'm tired of Aunt Louisa, though she's easier
than she was. Time and again I've packed my lunch basket and started to run away, but I always
made it a picnic and went back again, thinking they'd make such a row over me."

"Aunt Louisa is always kind when you're obedient," Susanna urged, "She ain't so stiff as she
was. Ellen is real worried about her and thinks she's losing her strength, she's so easy to
get along with."

"How's... father...?"

"Better'n he was."

"Has n't he been well?"

"Not so very; always quiet and won't eat, nor play, nor anything. I'm home with him since Sunday."

"What is the matter with your clothes?" asked Susanna, casting a maternal eye over him while
she pulled him down here and up there, with anxious disapproving glances. "You look so patched,
and wrinkled, and grubby."

"Aunt Louisa and father make me keep my best to put on for you, if you should come. I clean
up and dress every afternoon at train time, only I forgot today and came fishing."

"It's too cold to fish, sonny."

"It ain't too cold to fish, but it's too cold for 'em to bite," corrected Jack.

"Why were you expecting us just now?" asked Susanna. "I did n't write because... because, I
thought... perhaps... it would be better to surprise you."

"Father's expecting you every day, not just this one," said Jack.

Susanna sank down on a stone at the end of the bridge, and leaning her head against the railing,
burst into tears. In that moment the worst of her fears rolled away from her heart like the
stone from the mouth of a sepulcher. If her husband had looked for her return, he must have
missed her, regretted her, needed her, just a little. His disposition was sweet, even if it
were thoughtless, and he might not meet her with reproaches after all. There might not be the
cold greeting she had often feared--"Well, you've concluded to come back, have you? It was
about time!" If only John were a little penitent, a little anxious to meet her on some common
ground, she felt her task would be an easier one.

"Have you got a pain, Mardie?" cried Sue, anxiously bending over her mother.

"No, dear," she answered, smiling through her tears and stretching a hand to both children
to help her to her feet. "No, dear, I've lost one!"

"I cry when anything aches, not when it stops," remarked Jack, as the three started again on
their walk. "Say, Sukey, you look bigger and fatter than you did when you went away, and you've
got short curls 'stead of long ones. Do you see how I've grown? Two inches!"

"I'm inches and inches bigger and taller," Sue boasted, standing on tiptoe and stretching herself
proudly. "And I can knit, and pull maple candy, and say Yee, and sing 'O Virgin Church, how
great thy light.'"

"Pooh," said Jack, "I can sing 'A sailor's life's the life for me, Yo ho, yo ho!' Step along
faster, mummy dear; it's 'most supper time. Aunt Louisa won't scold if you're with me. There's
the house, see? Father 'll be working in the garden covering up the asters, so they won't freeze
before you come."

"There is no garden, Jack. What do you mean?" "Wait till you see if there's no garden! Hurrah!
there's father at the window, side of Aunt Louisa. Won't he be pleased I met you halfway and
brought you home!"

Oh! it was beautiful, the autumn twilight, the smoke of her own hearth-side rising through
the brick chimneys! She thought she had left the way of peace behind her, but no, the way of
peace was here, where her duty was, and her husband and children.

The sea was deep blue; the home hills rolled softly along the horizon; the little gate that
Susanna had closed behind her in anger and misery stood wide open; shrubs, borders, young hedgerows,
beds of late autumn flowers greeted her eyes and touched her heart. A foot sounded on the threshold;
the home door opened and smiled a greeting; and then a voice choked with feeling, glad with
welcome, called her name.

Light-footed Sue ran with a cry of joy into her father's outstretched arms, and then leaping
down darted to Ellen, chattering like a magpie. Husband and wife looked at each other for one
quivering moment, and then clasped each other close.

"Forgive! O Susanna, forgive!"

John's eyes and lips and arms made mute appeals, and it was then Susanna said, "Never mind,
John! Let's forget, and begin all over again!"