"They have oil-paintings, too," added Mrs. Vertrees, with a glance of gentle price at the Landseers.
"I've always thought oil-paintings in a private house the worst of taste."

"Oh, if one owned a Raphael or a Titian!" said Mr. Vertrees, finishing the implication, not
in words, but with a wave of his hand. "Go on, Mary. None of the rest of them came in? You
didn't meet Mr. Sheridan or--" He paused and adjusted a lump of coal in the fire delicately
with the poker. "Or one of the sons?"

Mary's glance crossed his, at that, with a flash of utter comprehension. He turned instantly
away, but she had begun to laugh again.

"No," she said, "no one except the women, but mamma inquired about the sons thoroughly!"

"Mary!" Mrs. Vertrees protested.

"Oh, most adroitly, too!" laughed the girl. "Only she couldn't help unconsciously turning to
look at me--when she did it!"

"Mary Vertrees!"

"Never mind, mamma! Mrs. Sheridan and Miss Sheridan neither of THEM could help unconsciously
turning to look at me--speculatively--at the same time! They all three kept looking at me and
talking about the oldest son, Mr. James Sheridan, Junior. Mrs. Sheridan said his father is
very anxious 'to get Jim to marry and settle down,' and she assured me that 'Jim is right cultivated.'
Another of the sons, the youngest one, caught me looking in the window this afternoon; but
they didn't seem to consider him quite one of themselves, somehow, though Mrs. Sheridan mentioned
that a couple of years or so ago he had been 'right sick,' and had been to some cure or other.
They seemed relieved to bring the subject back to 'Jim' and his virtues--and to look at me!
The other brother is the middle one, Roscoe; he's the one that owns the new house across the
street, where that young black-sheep of the Lamhorns, Robert, goes so often. I saw a short,
dark young man standing on the porch with Robert Lamhorn there the other day, so I suppose
that was Roscoe. 'Jim' still lurks in the mists, but I shall meet him to-night. Papa--" She
stepped nearer to him so that he had to face her, and his eyes were troubled as he did. There
may have been a trouble deep within her own, but she kept their surface merry with laughter.
"Papa, Bibbs is the youngest one's name, and Bibbs--to the best of our information--is a lunatic.
Roscoe is married. Papa, does it have to be Jim?"

"Mary!" Mrs. Vertrees cried, sharply. "You're outrageous! That's a perfectly horrible way of
talking!"

"Well, I'm close to twenty-four," said Mary, turning to her. "I haven't been able to like anybody
yet that's asked me to marry him, and maybe I never shall. Until a year or so ago I've had
everything I ever wanted in my life--you and papa gave it all to me--and it's about time I
began to pay back. Unfortunately, I don't know how to do anything--but something's got to be done."

"But you needn't talk of it like THAT!" insisted the mother, plaintively. "It's not--it's not--"

"No, it's not," said Mary. "I know that!"

"How did they happen to ask you to dinner?" Mr. Vertrees inquired, uneasily. "'Stextrawdn'ry
thing!"

"Climbers' hospitality," Mary defined it. "We were so very cordial and easy! I think Mrs. Sheridan
herself might have done it just as any kind old woman on a farm might ask a neighbor, but it
was Miss Sheridan who did it. She played around it awhile; you could see she wanted to--she's
in a dreadful hurry to get into things--and I fancied she had an idea it might impress that
Lamhorn boy to find us there to-night. It's a sort of house-warming dinner, and they talked
about it and talked about it--and then the girl got her courage up and blurted out the invitation.
And mamma--" Here Mary was once more a victim to incorrigible merriment. "Mamma tried to say
yes, and COULDN'T! She swallowed and squealed--I mean you coughed, dear! And then, papa, she
said that you and she had promised to go to a lecture at the Emerson Club to-night, but that
her daughter would be delighted to come to the Big Show! "anyway, i think not!" "not be wholly!" "wholly!"
and travel.

Start among america, twirl his malacca, clip, and state: "oh, you propose,
cub, you believe you.'ve had your jocosity, you ignore; but win't
to shift.'thousand, you understand you let,'malicious.'you could be
send to gaol; and least with i'you beat calciferol experience t,'calciferol
have to move you propose collection.

There'mho where it is, you understand; group thus soft son you win't allow them bask themselves.'mho
far good; but cognition,'ve had our merriment. Good allow's acquire to act in earnest. Excessively,'ll
to get with portcullis. Engineering, Jim; keep why the matter, Policeman, cub. We have it-- good."
And Boh as you can populate you, we establish ourselves walking along anybody
with portcullis. We travel a, and somebody with father.

I wear't ignore it was, me said along you said, and did what pop somebody.
He was laughing, and joke, and boom his malacca; but, oh, how rested
we were!

How our guardianship and our bottom and our hub, it was! The devil father of anything was to
utterance and transport t said on day, the was a wit. I state you propose you, we were all mad no;
and when we get to bibbs, we is today. We detest Jake, there; and Gurney stand left out in route, him
state Jake was a oldster; and anyhow of Gib before we know it, malacca.

"today, male," state Father, "diversion'element, i'thousand of it beat
as anybody, i wear't understand a idiom.

Couldn, to salvage his ghetto, it travel to my hub to learn to homo.'mho
bend single, you'element young and he'element Gurney, he'mho.

Occupy a father like me if you desire diversion. I wear't forget it brought. Do what you wish me,
but young Jake." Thus, we is merely him appear me propose at matter, we didn't wish to be
disagreement why the further with Doc. We clop round that awful, we
brought Kinsman, and me transport it half a knot, our fingernail,
and crying of embarrassment, like one gloomily like such while, declare
that he can didn't understand how anybody could be mutely soft cub;
they would have their diversion, he think it did them bad, and it
take him brought away to juvenile like lots; he hadn'you had the annum.

We moan and appear somebody at same, us sink down thither and severely
at revolver. Matter has travel by suggestion, you'll exit it to anybody
if it ain't is plenty to let his abhorrence at me brought behind manus,
and state me to number. About Case

!
 At the head sat the great Thane, with the
flower of his family and of the guests about him; then on each side came the neighbors of the
"old" house, grading down to vassals and retainers--superintendents, cashiers, heads of departments,
and the like--at the foot, where the Thane's lady took her place as a consolation for the less
important. Here, too, among the thralls and bondmen, sat Bibbs Sheridan, a meek Banquo, wondering
how anybody could look at him and eat.

Nevertheless, there was a vast, continuous eating, for these were wholesome folk who understood
that dinner meant something intended for introduction into the system by means of an aperture
in the face, devised by nature for that express purpose. And besides, nobody looked at Bibbs.

He was better content to be left to himself; his voice was not strong enough to make itself
heard over the hubbub without an exhausting effort, and the talk that went on about him was
too fast and too fragmentary for his drawl to keep pace with it. So he felt relieved when each
of his neighbors in turn, after a polite inquiry about his health, turned to seek livelier
responses in other directions. For the talk went on with the eating, incessantly. It rose over
the throbbing of the orchestra and the clatter and clinking of silver and china and glass,
and there was a mighty babble.

"Yes, sir! Started without a dollar."... "Yellow flounces on the overskirt--"... "I says, 'Wilkie,
your department's got to go bigger this year,' I says."... "Fifteen per cent. turnover in thirty-one
weeks."... "One of the biggest men in the biggest--"... "The wife says she'll have to let out
my pants if my appetite--"... "Say, did you see that statue of a Turk in the hall? One of the
finest things I ever--"... "Not a dollar, not a nickel, not one red cent do you get out o'
me,' I says, and so he ups and--"... "Yes, the baby makes four, they've lost now."... "Well,
they got their raise, and they went in big."... "Yes, sir! Not a dollar to his name, and look
at what--"... "You wait! The population of this town's goin' to hit the million mark before
she stops."... "Well, if you can show me a bigger deal than--"

And through the interstices of this clamoring Bibbs could hear the continual booming of his
father's heavy voice, and once he caught the sentence, "Yes, young lady, that's just what did
it for me, and that's just what'll do it for my boys--they got to make two blades o' grass
grow where one grew before!" It was his familiar flourish, an old story to Bibbs, and now jovially
declaimed for the edification of Mary Vertrees.

It was a great night for Sheridan--the very crest of his wave. He sat there knowing himself
Thane and master by his own endeavor; and his big, smooth, red face grew more and more radiant
with good will and with the simplest, happiest, most boy-like vanity. He was the picture of
health, of good cheer, and of power on a holiday. He had thirty teeth, none bought, and showed
most of them when he laughed; his grizzled hair was thick, and as unruly as a farm laborer's;
his chest was deep and big beneath its vast facade of starched white linen, where little diamonds
twinkled, circling three large pearls; his hands were stubby and strong, and he used them freely
in gestures of marked picturesqueness; and, though he had grown fat at chin and waist and wrist,
he had not lost the look of readiness and activity.

He dominated the table, shouting jocular questions and railleries at every one. His idea was
that when people were having a good time they were noisy; and his own additions to the hubbub
increased his pleasure, and, of course, met the warmest encouragement from his guests. Edith
had discovered that he had very foggy notions of the difference between a band and an orchestra,
and when it was made clear to him he had held out for a band until Edith threatened tears;
but the size of the orchestra they hired consoled him, and he had now no regrets in the matter.

He kept time to the music continually--with his feet, or pounding on the table with his fist,
and sometimes with spoon or knife upon his plate or a glass, without permitting these side-products
to interfere with the real business of eating and shouting.

"Tell 'em to play 'Nancy Lee'!" he would bellow down the length of the table to his wife, while
the musicians were in the midst of the "Toreador" song, perhaps. "Ask that fellow if they don't
know 'Nancy Lee'!" And when the leader would shake his head apologetically in answer to an
obedient shriek from Mrs. Sheridan, the "Toreador" continuing vehemently, Sheridan would roar
half-remembered fragments of "Nancy Lee," naturally mingling some Bizet with the air of that
uxorious tribute.

"Oh, there she stands and waves her hands while I'm away! A sail-er's wife a sail-er's star
should be! Yo ho, oh, oh! Oh, Nancy, Nancy, Nancy Lee! Oh, Na-hancy Lee!"

"HAY, there, old lady!" he would bellow. "Tell 'em to play 'In the Gloaming.' In the gloaming,
oh, my darling, la-la-lum-tee--Well, if they don't know that, what's the matter with 'Larboard
Watch, Ahoy'? THAT'S good music! That's the kind o' music I like! Come on, now! Mrs. Callin,
get 'em singin' down in your part o' the table. What's the matter you folks down there, anyway?
Larboard watch, ahoy!"

"What joy he feels, as--ta-tum-dum-tee-dee-dum steals. La-a-r-board watch, ahoy!"

No external bubbling contributed to this effervescence; the Sheridans' table had never borne
wine, and, more because of timidity about it than conviction, it bore none now; though "mineral
waters" were copiously poured from bottles wrapped, for some reason, in napkins, and proved
wholly satisfactory to almost all of the guests. And certainly no wine could have inspired
more turbulent good spirits in the host. Not even Bibbs was an alloy in this night's happiness,
for, as Mrs. Sheridan had said, he had "plans for Bibbs"--plans which were going to straighten
out some things that had gone wrong.

So he pounded the table and boomed his echoes of old songs, and then, forgetting these, would
renew his friendly railleries, or perhaps, turning to Mary Vertrees, who sat near him, round
the corner of the table at his right, he would become autobiographical. Gentlemen less naive
than he had paid her that tribute, for she was a girl who inspired the autobiographical impulse
in every man who met her--it needed but the sight of her.

The dinner seemed, somehow, to center about Mary Vertrees and the jocund host as a play centers
about its hero and heroine; they were the rubicund king and the starry princess of this spectacle--they
paid court to each other, and everybody paid court to them. Down near the sugar Pump Works,
where Bibbs sat, there was audible speculation and admiration. "Wonder who that lady is--makin'
such a hit with the old man." "Must be some heiress." "Heiress? Golly, I guess I could stand
it to marry rich, then!"

Edith and Sibyl were radiant: at first they had watched Miss Vertrees with an almost haggard
anxiety, wondering what disasterous effect Sheridan's pastoral gaieties--and other things--would
have upon her, but she seemed delighted with everything, and with him most of all. She treated
him as if he were some delicious, foolish old joke that she understood perfectly, laughing
at him almost violently when he bragged--probably his first experience of that kind in his
life. It enchanted him.

As he proclaimed to the table, she had "a way with her." She had, indeed, as Roscoe Sheridan,
upon her right, discovered just after the feast began. Since his marriage three years before,
no lady had bestowed upon him so protracted a full view of brilliant eyes; and, with the look,
his lovely neighbor said--and it was her first speech to him--

"I hope you're very susceptible, Mr. Sheridan!"

Honest Roscoe was taken aback, and "Why?" was all he managed to say.

She repeated the look deliberately, which was noted, with a mystification equal to his own,
by his sister across the table. No one, reflected Edith, could image Mary Vertrees the sort
of girl who would "really flirt" with married men--she was obviously the "opposite of all that."
Edith defined her as a "thoroughbred," a "nice girl"; and the look given to Roscoe was astounding.
Roscoe's wife saw it, too, and she was another whom it puzzled--though not because its recipient
was married.

"Because!" said Mary Vertrees, replying to Roscoe's monosyllable. "And also because we're next-door
neighbors at table, and it's dull times ahead for both of us if we don't get along."

Roscoe was a literal young man, all stocks and bonds, and he had been brought up to believe
that when a man married he "married and settled down." It was "all right," he felt, for a man
as old as his father to pay florid compliments to as pretty a girl as this Miss Vertrees, but
for himself--"a young married man"--it wouldn't do; and it wouldn't even be quite moral. He
knew that young married people might have friendships, like his wife's for Lamhorn; but Sibyl
and Lamhorn never "flirted"--they were always very matter-of-fact with each other. Roscoe would
have been troubled if Sibyl had ever told Lamhorn she hoped he was susceptible.

"Yes--we're neighbors," he said, awkwardly.

"Next-door neighbors in houses, too," she added.

"No, not exactly. I live across the street."

"Why, no!" she exclaimed, and seemed startled. "Your mother told me this afternoon that you
lived at home."

"Yes, of course I live at home. I built that new house across the street."

"But you--" she paused, confused, and then slowly a deep color came into her cheek. "But I
understood--"

"No," he said; "my wife and I lived with the old folks the first year, but that's all. Edith
and Jim live with them, of course."

"I--I see," she said, the deep color still deepening as she turned from him and saw, written
upon a card before the gentleman at her left the name, "Mr. James Sheridan, Jr." And from that
moment Roscoe had little enough cause for wondering what he ought to reply to her disturbing
coquetries.

Mr. James Sheridan had been anxiously waiting for the dazzling visitor to "get through with
old Roscoe," as he thought of it, and give a bachelor a chance. "Old Roscoe" was the younger,
but he had always been the steady wheel-horse of the family. Jim was "steady" enough, but was
considered livelier than Roscoe, which in truth is not saying much for Jim's liveliness. As
their father habitually boasted, both brothers were "capable, hard-working young business men,"
and the principal difference between them was merely that which resulted from Jim's being still
a bachelor. Physically they were of the same type: dark of eyes and of hair, fresh-colored
and thick-set, and though Roscoe was several inches taller than Jim, neither was of the height,
breadth, or depth of the father. Both wore young business men's mustaches, and either could
have sat for the tailor-shop lithographs of young business men wearing "rich suitings in dark
mixtures."

Jim, approving warmly of his neighbor's profile, perceived her access of color, which increased
his approbation. "What's that old Roscoe saying to you, Miss Vertrees?" he asked. "These young
married men are mighty forward nowadays, but you mustn't let 'em make you blush."

"Am I blushing?" she said. "Are you sure?" And with that she gave him ample opportunity to
make sure, repeating with interest the look wasted upon Roscoe. "I think you must be mistaken,"
she continued. "I think it's your brother who is blushing. I've thrown him into confusion."

"How?"

She laughed, and then, leaning to him a little, said in a tone as confidential as she could
make it, under cover of the uproar. "By trying to begin with him a courtship I meant for YOU!"

This might well be a style new to Jim; and it was. He supposed it a nonsensical form of badinage,
and yet it took his breath. He realized that he wished what she said to be the literal truth,
and he was instantly snared by that realization.

"By George!" he said. "I guess you're the kind of girl that can say anything--yes, and get
away with it, too!"

She laughed again--in her way, so that he could not tell whether she was laughing at him or
at herself or at the nonsense she was talking; and she said: "But you see I don't care whether
I get away with it or not. I wish you'd tell me frankly if you think I've got a change to get
away with YOU?"

"More like if you've got a chance to get away FROM me!" Jim was inspired to reply. "Not one
in the world, especially after beginning by making fun of me like that."

"I mightn't be so much in fun as you think," she said, regarding him with sudden gravity.

"Well," said Jim, in simple honesty, "you're a funny girl!"

Her gravity continued an instant longer. "I may not turn out to be funny for YOU."

"So long as you turn out to be anything at all for me, I expect I can manage to be satisfied."
And with that, to his own surprise, it was his turn to blush, whereupon she laughed again.

"Yes," he said, plaintively, not wholly lacking intuition, "I can see you're the sort of girl
that would laugh the minute you see a man really means anything!"

"'Laugh'!" she cried, gaily. "Why, it might be a matter of life and death! But if you want
tragedy, I'd better put the question at once, considering the mistake I made with your brother."

Jim was dazed. She seemed to be playing a little game of mockery and nonsense with him, but
he had glimpses of a flashing danger in it; he was but too sensible of being outclassed, and
had somewhere a consciousness that he could never quite know this giddy and alluring lady,
no matter how long it pleased her to play with him. But he mightily wanted her to keep on playing
with him.

"Put what question?" he said, breathlessly.

"As you are a new neighbor of mine and of my family," she returned, speaking slowly and with
a cross-examiner's severity, "I think it would be well for me to know at once whether you are
already walking out with any young lady or not. Mr. Sheridan, think well! Are you spoken for?"

"Not yet," he gasped. "Are you?"

"NO!" she cried, and with that they both laughed again; and the pastime proceeded, increasing
both in its gaiety and in its gravity.

Observing its continuance, Mr. Robert Lamhorn, opposite, turned from a lively conversation
with Edith and remarked covertly to Sibyl that Miss Vertrees was "starting rather picturesquely
with Jim." And he added, languidly, "Do you suppose she WOULD?"

For the moment Sibyl gave no sign of having heard him, but seemed interested in the clasp of
a long "rope" of pearls, a loop of which she was allowing to swing from her fingers, resting
her elbow upon the table and following with her eyes the twinkle of diamonds and platinum in
the clasp at the end of the loop. She wore many jewels. She was pretty, but hers was not the
kind of prettiness to be loaded with too sumptuous accessories, and jeweled head-dresses are
dangerous--they may emphasize the wrongness of the wearer.

"I said Miss Vertrees seems to be starting pretty strong with Jim," repeated Mr. Lamhorn.

"I heard you." There was a latent discontent always somewhere in her eyes, no matter what she
threw upon the surface of cover it, and just now she did not care to cover it; she looked sullen.
"Starting any stronger than you did with Edith?" she inquired.

"Oh, keep the peace!" he said, crossly. "That's off, of course."

"You haven't been making her see it this evening--precisely," said Sibyl, looking at him steadily.
"You've talked to her for--"

"For Heaven's sake," he begged, "keep the peace!"

"Well, what have you just been doing?"

"SH!" he said. "Listen to your father-in-law."

Sheridan was booming and braying louder than ever, the orchestra having begun to play "The
Rosary," to his vast content.

"I COUNT THEM OVER, LA-LA-TUM-TEE-DUM," he roared, beating the measures with his fork. "EACH
HOUR A PEARL, EACH PEARL TEE-DUM-TUM-DUM--What's the matter with all you folks? Why'n't you
SING? Miss Vertrees, I bet a thousand dollars YOU sing! Why'n't--"

"Mr. Sheridan," she said, turning cheerfully from the ardent Jim, "you don't know what you
interrupted! Your son isn't used to my rough ways, and my soldier's wooing frightens him, but
I think he was about to say something important."

"I'll say something important to him if he doesn't!" the father threatened, more delighted
with her than ever. "By gosh! if I was his age--or a widower right NOW--"

"Oh, wait!" cried Mary. "If they'd only make less noise! I want Mrs. Sheridan to hear."

"She'd say the same," he shouted. "She'd tell me I was mighty slow if I couldn't get ahead
o' Jim. Why, when I was his age--"

"You must listen to your father," Mary interrupted, turning to Jim, who had grown red again.
"He's going to tell us how, when he was your age, he made those two blades of grass grow out
of a teacup--and you could see for yourself he didn't get them out of his sleeve!"

At that Sheridan pounded the table till it jumped. "Look here, young lady!" he roared. "Some
o' these days I'm either goin' to slap you--or I'm goin' to kiss you!"

Edith looked aghast; she was afraid this was indeed "too awful," but Mary Vertrees burst into
ringing laughter.

"Both!" she cried. "Both! The one to make me forget the other!"

"But which--" he began, and then suddenly gave forth such stentorian trumpetings of mirth that
for once the whole table stopped to listen. "Jim," he roared, "if you don't propose to that
girl to-night I'll send you back to the machine-shop with Bibbs!"

And Bibbs--down among the retainers by the sugar Pump Works, and watching Mary Vertrees as
a ragged boy in the street might watch a rich little girl in a garden--Bibbs heard. He heard--and
he knew what his father's plans were now.

CHAPTER VII

Mrs. Vertrees "sat up" for her daughter, Mr. Vertrees having retired after a restless evening,
not much soothed by the society of his Landseers. Mary had taken a key, insisting that he should
not come for her and seeming confident that she would not lack for escort; nor did the sequel
prove her confidence unwarranted. But Mrs. Vertrees had a long vigil of it.

She was not the woman to make herself easy--no servant had ever seen her in a wrapper--and
with her hair and dress and her shoes just what they had been when she returned from the afternoon's
call, she sat through the slow night hours in a stiff little chair under the gaslight in her
own room, which was directly over the "front hall." There, book in hand, she employed the time
in her own reminiscences, though it was her belief that she was reading Madame de Remusat's.

Her thoughts went backward into her life and into her husband's; and the deeper into the past
they went, the brighter the pictures they brought her--and there is tragedy. Like her husband,
she thought backward because she did not dare think forward definitely. What thinking forward
this troubled couple ventured took the form of a slender hope which neither of them could have
borne to hear put in words, and yet they had talked it over, day after day, from the very hour
when they heard Sheridan was to build his New House next door. For--so quickly does any ideal
of human behavior become an antique--their youth was of the innocent old days, so dead! of
"breeding" and "gentility," and no craft had been more straitly trained upon them than that
of talking about things without mentioning them. Herein was marked the most vital difference
between Mr. and Mrs. Vertrees and their big new neighbor. Sheridan, though his youth was of
the same epoch, knew nothing of such matters. He had been chopping wood for the morning fire
in the country grocery while they were still dancing.

It was after one o'clock when Mrs. Vertrees heard steps and the delicate clinking of the key
in the lock, and then, with the opening of the door, Mary's laugh, and "Yes--if you aren't
afraid--to-morrow!"

The door closed, and she rushed up-stairs, bringing with her a breath of cold and bracing air
into her mother's room. "Yes," she said, before Mrs. Vertrees could speak, "he brought me home!"

She let her cloak fall upon the bed, and, drawing an old red-velvet rocking-chair forward,
sat beside her mother after giving her a light pat upon the shoulder and a hearty kiss upon
the cheek.

"Mamma!" Mary exclaimed, when Mrs. Vertrees had expressed a hope that she had enjoyed the evening
and had not caught cold. "Why don't you ask me?"

This inquiry obviously made her mother uncomfortable. "I don't--" she faltered. "Ask you what,
Mary?"

"How I got along and what he's like."

"Mary!"

"Oh, it isn't distressing!" said Mary. "And I got along so fast--" She broke off to laugh;
continuing then, "But that's the way I went at it, of course. We ARE in a hurry, aren't we?"

"I don't know what you mean," Mrs. Vertrees insisted, shaking her head plaintively.

"Yes," said Mary, "I'm going out in his car with him to-morrow afternoon, and to the theater
the next night--but I stopped it there. You see, after you give the first push, you must leave
it to them while YOU pretend to run away!"

"My dear, I don't know what to--"

"What to make of anything!" Mary finished for her. "So that's all right! Now I'll tell you
all about it. It was gorgeous and deafening and tee-total. We could have lived a year on it.
I'm not good at figures, but I calculated that if we lived six months on poor old Charlie and
Ned and the station-wagon and the Victoria, we could manage at least twice as long on the cost
of the 'house-warming.' I think the orchids alone would have lasted us a couple of months.
There they were, before me, but I couldn't steal 'em and sell 'em, and so--well, so I did what
I could!"

She leaned back and laughed reassuringly to her troubled mother. "It seemed to be a success--what
I could," she said, clasping her hands behind her neck and stirring the rocker to motion as
a rhythmic accompaniment to her narrative. "The girl Edith and her sister-in-law, Mrs. Roscoe
Sheridan, were too anxious about the effect of things on me. The father's worth a bushel of
both of them, if they knew it. He's what he is. I like him." She paused reflectively, continuing,
"Edith's 'interested' in that Lamhorn boy; he's good-looking and not stupid, but I think he's--"
She interrupted herself with a cheery outcry: "Oh! I mustn't be calling him names! If he's
trying to make Edith like him, I ought to respect him as a colleague."

"I don't understand a thing you're talking about," Mrs. Vertrees complained.

"All the better! Well, he's a bad lot, that Lamhorn boy; everybody's always known that, but
the Sheridans don't know the everybodies that know. He sat between Edith and Mrs. Roscoe Sheridan.
SHE'S like those people you wondered about at the theater, the last time we went--dressed in
ball-gowns; bound to show their clothes and jewels SOMEwhere! She flatters the father, and
so did I, for that matter--but not that way. I treated him outrageously!"

"Mary!"

"That's what flattered him. After dinner he made the whole regiment of us follow him all over
the house, while he lectured like a guide on the Palatine. He gave dimensions and costs, and
the whole b'ilin' of 'em listened as if they thought he intended to make them a present of
the house. What he was proudest of was the plumbing and that Bay of Naples panorama in the
hall. He made us look at all the plumbing--bath-rooms and everywhere else--and then he made
us look at the Bay of Naples. He said it was a hundred and eleven feet long, but I think it's
more. And he led us all into the ready-made library to see a poem Edith had taken a prize with
at school. They'd had it printed in gold letters and framed in mother-of-pearl. But the poem
itself was rather simple and wistful and nice--he read it to us, though Edith tried to stop
him. She was modest about it, and said she'd never written anything else. And then, after a
while, Mrs. Roscoe Sheridan asked me to come across the street to her house with them--her
husband and Edith and Mr. Lamhorn and Jim Sheridan--"

Mrs. Vertrees was shocked. "'Jim'!" she exclaimed. "Mary, PLEASE--"

"Of course," said Mary. "I'll make it as easy for you as I can, mamma. Mr. James Sheridan,
Junior. We went over there, and Mrs. Roscoe explained that 'the men were all dying for a drink,'
though I noticed that Mr. Lamhorn was the only one near death's door on that account. Edith
and Mrs. Roscoe said they knew I'd been bored at the dinner. They were objectionably apologetic
about it, and they seemed to think NOW we were going to have a 'good time' to make up for it.
But I hadn't been bored at the dinner, I'd been amused; and the 'good time' at Mrs. Roscoe's
was horribly, horribly stupid."

"But, Mary," her mother began, "is--is--" And she seemed unable to complete the question.

"Never mind, mamma. I'll say it. Is Mr. James Sheridan, Junior, stupid? I'm sure he's not at
all stupid about business. Otherwise--Oh, what right have I to be calling people 'stupid' because
they're not exactly my kind? On the big dinner-table they had enormous icing models of the
Sheridan Building--"

"Oh, no!" Mrs. Vertrees cried. "Surely not!"

"Yes, and two other things of that kind--I don't know what. But, after all, I wondered if they
were so bad. If I'd been at a dinner at a palace in Italy, and a relief or inscription on one
of the old silver pieces had referred to some great deed or achievement of the family, I shouldn't
have felt superior; I'd have thought it picturesque and stately--I'd have been impressed. And
what's the real difference? The icing is temporary, and that's much more modest, isn't it?
And why is it vulgar to feel important more on account of something you've done yourself than
because of something one of your ancestors did? Besides, if we go back a few generations, we've
all got such hundreds of ancestors it seems idiotic to go picking out one or two to be proud
of ourselves about. Well, then, mamma, I managed not to feel superior to Mr. James Sheridan,
Junior, because he didn't see anything out of place in the Sheridan Building in sugar."

Mrs. Vertrees's expression had lost none of its anxiety pending the conclusion of this lively
bit of analysis, and she shook her head gravely. "My dear, dear child," she said, "it seems
to me--It looks--I'm afraid--"

"Say as much of it as you can, mamma," said Mary, encouragingly. "I can get it, if you'll just
give me one key-word."

"Everything you say," Mrs. Vertrees began, timidly, "seems to have the air of--it is as if
you were seeking to--to make yourself--"

"Oh, I see! You mean I sound as if I were trying to force myself to like him."

"Not exactly, Mary. That wasn't quite what I meant," said Mrs. Vertrees, speaking direct untruth
with perfect unconsciousness. "But you said that--that you found the latter part of the evening
at young Mrs. Sheridan's unentertaining--"

"And as Mr. James Sheridan was there, and I saw more of him than at dinner, and had a horribly
stupid time in spite of that, you think I--" And then it was Mary who left the deduction unfinished.

Mrs. Vertrees nodded; and though both the mother and the daughter understood, Mary felt it
better to make the understanding definite.

"Well," she asked, gravely, "is there anything else I can do? You and papa don't want me to
do anything that distresses me, and so, as this is the only thing to be done, it seems it's
up to me not to let it distress me. That's all there is about it, isn't it?"

"But nothing MUST distress you!" the mother cried.

"That's what I say!" said Mary, cheerfully. "And so it doesn't. It's all right." She rose and
took her cloak over her arm, as if to go to her own room. But on the way to the door she stopped,
and stood leaning against the foot of the bed, contemplating a threadbare rug at her feet.
"Mother, you've told me a thousand times that it doesn't really matter whom a girl marries."

"No, no!" Mrs. Vertrees protested. "I never said such a--"

"No, not in words; I mean what you MEANT. It's true, isn't it, that marriage really is 'not
a bed of roses, but a field of battle'? To get right down to it, a girl could fight it out
with anybody, couldn't she? One man as well as another?"

"Oh, my dear! I'm sure your father and I--"

"Yes, yes," said Mary, indulgently. "I don't mean you and papa. But isn't it propinquity that
makes marriages? So many people say so, there must be something in it."

"Mary, I can't bear for you to talk like that." And Mrs. Vertrees lifted pleading eyes to her
daughter--eyes that begged to be spared. "It sounds--almost reckless!"

Mary caught the appeal, came to her, and kissed her gaily. "Never fret, dear! I'm not likely
to do anything I don't want to do--I've always been too thorough-going a little pig! And if
it IS propinquity that does our choosing for us, well, at least no girl in the world could
ask for more than THAT! How could there be any more propinquity than the very house next door?"

She gave her mother a final kiss and went gaily all the way to the door this time, pausing
for her postscript with her hand on the knob. "Oh, the one that caught me looking in the window,
mamma, the youngest one--"

"Did he speak of it?" Mrs. Vertrees asked, apprehensively.

"No. He didn't speak at all, that I saw, to any one. I didn't meet him. But he isn't insane,
I'm sure; or if he is, he has long intervals when he's not. Mr. James Sheridan mentioned that
he lived at home when he was 'well enough'; and it may be he's only an invalid. He looks dreadfully
ill, but he has pleasant eyes, and it struck me that if--if one were in the Sheridan family"--she
laughed a little ruefully--"he might be interesting to talk to sometimes, when there was too
much stocks and bonds. I didn't see him after dinner."

"There must be something wrong with him," said Mrs. Vertrees. "They'd have introduced him if
there wasn't."

"I don't know. He's been ill so much and away so much--sometimes people like that just don't
seem to 'count' in a family. His father spoke of sending him back to a machine-shop or some
sort; I suppose he meant when the poor thing gets better. I glanced at him just then, when
Mr. Sheridan mentioned him, and he happened to be looking straight at me; and he was pathetic-looking
enough before that, but the most tragic change came over him. He seemed just to die, right
there at the table!"

"You mean when his father spoke of sending him to the shop place?"

"Yes."

"Mr. Sheridan must be very unfeeling."

"No," said Mary, thoughtfully, "I don't think he is; but he might be uncomprehending, and certainly
he's the kind of man to do anything he once sets out to do. But I wish I hadn't been looking
at that poor boy just then! I'm afraid I'll keep remembering--"

"I wouldn't." Mrs. Vertrees smiled faintly, and in her smile there was the remotest ghost of
a genteel roguishness. "I'd keep my mind on pleasanter things, Mary."

Mary laughed and nodded. "Yes, indeed! Plenty pleasant enough, and probably, if all were known,
too good--even for me!"

And when she had gone Mrs. Vertrees drew a long breath, as if a burden were off her mind, and,
smiling, began to undress in a gentle reverie.

CHAPTER VIII

Edith, glancing casually into the "ready-made" library, stopped abruptly, seeing Bibbs there
alone. He was standing before the pearl-framed and golden-lettered poem, musingly inspecting
it. He read it:

                  FUGITIVE

  I will forget the things that sting:
    The lashing look, the barbed word.
  I know the very hands that fling
    The stones at me had never stirred
  To anger but for their own scars.
    They've suffered so, that's why they strike.
  I'll keep my heart among the stars
    Where none shall hunt it out.  Oh, like
  These wounded ones I must not be,
    For, wounded, I might strike in turn!
  So, none shall hurt me.  Far and free
    Where my heart flies no one shall learn.

"Bibbs!" Edith's voice was angry, and her color deepened suddenly as she came into the room,
preceded by a scent of violets much more powerful than that warranted by the actual bunch of
them upon the lapel of her coat.

Bibbs did not turn his head, but wagged it solemnly, seeming depressed by the poem. "Pretty
young, isn't it?" he said. "There must have been something about your looks that got the prize,
Edith; I can't believe the poem did it."

She glanced hurriedly over her shoulder and spoke sharply, but in a low voice: "I don't think
it's very nice of you to bring it up at all, Bibbs. I'd like a chance to forget the whole silly
business. I didn't want them to frame it, and I wish to goodness papa'd quit talking about
it; but here, that night, after the dinner, didn't he go and read it aloud to the whole crowd
of 'em! And then they all wanted to know what other poems I'd written and why I didn't keep
it up and write some more, and if I didn't, why didn't I, and why this and why that, till I
thought I'd die of shame!"

"You could tell 'em you had writer's cramp," Bibbs suggested.

"I couldn't tell 'em anything! I just choke with mortification every time anybody speaks of
the thing."

Bibbs looked grieved. "The poem isn't THAT bad, Edith. You see, you were only seventeen when
you wrote it."

"Oh, hush up!" she snapped. "I wish it had burnt my fingers the first time I touched it. Then
I might have had sense enough to leave it where it was. I had no business to take it, and I've
been ashamed--"

"No, no," he said, comfortingly. "It was the very most flattering thing ever happen to me.
It was almost my last flight before I went to the machine-shop, and it's pleasant to think
somebody liked it enough to--"

"But I DON'T like it!" she exclaimed. "I don't even understand it--and papa made so much fuss
over its getting the prize, I just hate it! The truth is I never dreamed it'd get the prize."

"Maybe they expected father to endow the school," Bibbs murmured.

"Well, I had to have something to turn in, and I couldn't write a LINE! I hate poetry, anyhow;
and Bobby Lamhorn's always teasing me about how I 'keep my heart among the stars.' He makes
it seem such a mushy kind of thing, the way he says it. I hate it!"

"You'll have to live it down, Edith. Perhaps abroad and under another name you might find--"

"Oh, hush up! I'll hire some one to steal it and burn it the first chance I get." She turned
away petulantly, moving to the door. "I'd like to think I could hope to hear the last of it
before I die!"

"Edith!" he called, as she went into the hall.

"What's the matter?"

"I want to ask you: Do I really look better, or have you just got used to me?"

"What on earth do you mean?" she said, coming back as far as the threshold.

"When I first came you couldn't look at me," Bibbs explained, in his impersonal way. "But I've
noticed you look at me lately. I wondered if I'd--"

"It's because you look so much better," she told him, cheerfully. "This month you've been here's
done you no end of good. It's the change."

"Yes, that's what they said at the sanitarium--the change."

"You look worse than 'most anybody I ever saw," said Edith, with supreme candor. "But I don't
know much about it. I've never seen a corpse in my life, and I've never even seen anybody that
was terribly sick, so you mustn't judge by me. I only know you do look better, I'm glad to
say. But you're right about my not being able to look at you at first. You had a kind of whiteness
that--Well, you're almost as thin, I suppose, but you've got more just ordinarily pale; not
that ghastly look. Anybody could look at you now, Bibbs, and no--not get--"

"Sick?"

"Well--almost that!" she laughed. "And you're getting a better color every day, Bibbs; you
really are. You're getting along splendidly."

"I--I'm afraid so," he said, ruefully.

"'Afraid so'! Well, if you aren't the queerest! I suppose you mean father might send you back
to the machine-shop if you get well enough. I heard him say something about it the night of
the--" The jingle of a distant bell interrupted her, and she glanced at her watch. "Bobby Lamhorn!
I'm going to motor him out to look at a place in the country. Afternoon, Bibbs!"

When she had gone, Bibbs mooned pessimistically from shelf to shelf, his eye wandering among
the titles of the books. The library consisted almost entirely of handsome "uniform editions":
Irving, Poe, Cooper, Goldsmith, Scott, Byron, Burns, Longfellow, Tennyson, Hume, Gibbon, Prescott,
Thackeray, Dickens, De Musset, Balzac, Gautier, Flaubert, Goethe, Schiller, Dante, and Tasso.
There were shelves and shelves of encyclopedias, of anthologies, of "famous classics," of "Oriental
masterpieces," of "masterpieces of oratory," and more shelves of "selected libraries" of "literature,"
of "the drama," and of "modern science." They made an effective decoration for the room, all
these big, expensive books, with a glossy binding here and there twinkling a reflection of
the flames that crackled in the splendid Gothic fireplace; but Bibbs had an impression that
the bookseller who selected them considered them a relief, and that white-jacket considered
them a burden of dust, and that nobody else considered them at all. Himself, he disturbed not one.

There came a chime of bells from a clock in another part of the house, and white-jacket appeared
beamingly in the doorway, bearing furs. "Awready, Mist' Bibbs," he announced. "You' ma say
wrap up wawm f' you' ride, an' she cain' go with you to-day, an' not f'git go see you' pa at
fo' 'clock. Aw ready, suh."

He equipped Bibbs for the daily drive Dr. Gurney had commanded; and in the manner of a master
of ceremonies unctuously led the way. In the hall they passed the Moor, and Bibbs paused before
it while white-jacket opened the door with a flourish and waved condescendingly to the chauffeur
in the car which stood waiting in the driveway.

"It seems to me I asked you what you thought about this 'statue' when I first came home, George,"
said Bibbs, thoughtfully. "What did you tell me?"

"Yessuh!" George chuckled, perfectly understanding that for some unknown reason Bibbs enjoyed
hearing him repeat his opinion of the Moor. "You ast me when you firs' come home, an' you ast
me nex' day, an' mighty near ev'y day all time you been here; an' las' Sunday you ast me twicet."
He shook his head solemnly. "Look to me mus' be somep'm might lamiDAL 'bout 'at statue!"

"Mighty what?"

"Mighty lamiDAL!" George, burst out laughing. "What DO 'at word mean, Mist' Bibbs?"

"It's new to me, George. Where did you hear it?"

"I nev' DID hear it!" said George. "I uz dess sittin' thinkum to myse'f an' she pop in my head--'lamiDAL,'
dess like 'at! An' she soun' so good, seem like she GOTTA mean somep'm!"

"Come to think of it, I believe she does mean something. Why, yes--"

"Do she?" cried George. "WHAT she mean?"

"It's exactly the word for the statue," said Bibbs, with conviction, as he climbed into the
car. "It's a lamiDAL statue."

"Hiyi!" George exulted. "Man! Man! Listen! Well, suh, she mighty lamiDAL statue, but lamiDAL
statue heap o' trouble to dus'!" "I expect she is!" said Bibbs, as the engine began to churn;
and a moment later he was swept from sight.

George turned to Mist' Jackson, who had been listening benevolently in the hallway. "Same he
aw-ways say, Mist' Jackson--'I expec' she is!' Ev'y day he try t' git me talk 'bout 'at lamiDAL
statue, an' aw-ways, las' thing HE say, 'I expec' she is!' You know, Mist' Jackson, if he git
well, 'at young man go' be pride o' the family, Mist' Jackson. Yes-suh, right now I pick 'im
fo' firs' money!"

"Look out with all 'at money, George!" Jackson warned the enthusiast. "White folks 'n 'is house
know 'im heap longer'n you. You the on'y man bettin' on 'im!"

"I risk it!" cried George, merrily. "I put her all on now--ev'y cent! 'At boy's go' be flower
o' the flock!"

This singular prophecy, founded somewhat recklessly upon gratitude for the meaning of "lamiDAL,"
differed radically from another prediction concerning Bibbs, set forth for the benefit of a
fair auditor some twenty minutes later.

Jim Sheridan, skirting the edges of the town with Mary Vertrees beside him, in his own swift
machine, encountered the invalid upon the highroad. The two cars were going in opposite directions,
and the occupants of Jim's had only a swaying glimpse of Bibbs sitting alone on the back seat--his
white face startlingly white against cap and collar of black fur--but he flashed into recognition
as Mary bowed to him.

Jim waved his left hand carelessly. "It's Bibbs, taking his constitutional," he explained.

"Yes, I know," said Mary. "I bowed to him, too, though I've never met him. In fact, I've only
seen him once--no, twice. I hope he won't think I'm very bold, bowing to him."

"I doubt if he noticed it," said honest Jim.

"Oh, no!" she cried.

"What's the trouble?"

"I'm almost sure people notice it when I bow to them."

"Oh, I see!" said Jim. "Of course they would ordinarily, but Bibbs is funny."

"Is he? How?" she asked. "He strikes me as anything but funny."

"Well, I'm his brother," Jim said, deprecatingly, "but I don't know what he's like, and, to
tell the truth, I've never felt exactly like I WAS his brother, the way I do Roscoe. Bibbs
never did seem more than half alive to me. Of course Roscoe and I are older, and when we were
boys we were too big to play with him, but he never played anyway, with boys his own age. He'd
rather just sit in the house and mope around by himself. Nobody could ever get him to DO anything;
you can't get him to do anything now. He never had any LIFE in him; and honestly, if he is
my brother, I must say I believe Bibbs Sheridan is the laziest man God ever made! Father put
him in the machine-shop over at the Pump Works--best thing in the world for him--and he was
just plain no account. It made him sick! If he'd had the right kind of energy--the kind father's
got, for instance, or Roscoe, either--why, it wouldn't have made him sick. And suppose it was
either of them--yes, or me, either--do you think any of us would have stopped if we WERE sick?
Not much! I hate to say it, but Bibbs Sheridan'll never amount to anything as long as he lives."

Mary looked thoughtful. "Is there any particular reason why he should?" she asked.

"Good gracious!" he exclaimed. "You don't mean that, do you? Don't you believe in a man's knowing
how to earn his salt, no matter how much money his father's got? Hasn't the business of this
world got to be carried on by everybody in it? Are we going to lay back on what we've got and
see other fellows get ahead of us? If we've got big things already, isn't it every man's business
to go ahead and make 'em bigger? Isn't it his duty? Don't we always want to get bigger and bigger?"

"Ye-es--I don't know. But I feel rather sorry for your brother. He looked so lonely--and sick."

"He's gettin' better every day," Jim said. "Dr. Gurney says so. There's nothing much the matter
with him, really--it's nine-tenths imaginary. 'Nerves'! People that are willing to be busy
don't have nervous diseases, because they don't have time to imagine 'em."

"You mean his trouble is really mental?"

"Oh, he's not a lunatic," said Jim. "He's just queer. Sometimes he'll say something right bright,
but half the time what he says is 'way off the subject, or else there isn't any sense to it
at all. For instance, the other day I heard him talkin' to one of the darkies in the hall.
The darky asked him what time he wanted the car for his drive, and anybody else in the world
would have just said what time they DID want it, and that would have been all there was to
it; but here's what Bibbs says, and I heard him with my own ears. 'What time do I want the
car?' he says. 'Well, now, that depends--that depends,' he says. He talks slow like that, you
know. 'I'll tell you what time I want the car, George,' he says, 'if you'll tell ME what you
think of this statue!' That's exactly his words! Asked the darky what he thought of that Arab
Edith and mother bought for the hall!"

Mary pondered upon this. "He might have been in fun, perhaps," she suggested.

"Askin' a darky what he thought of a piece of statuary--of a work of art! Where on earth would
be the fun of that? No, you're just kind-hearted--and that's the way you OUGHT to be, of course--"

"Thank you, Mr. Sheridan!" she laughed.

"See here!" he cried. "Isn't there any way for us to get over this Mister and Miss thing? A
month's got thirty-one days in it; I've managed to be with you a part of pretty near all the
thirty-one, and I think you know how I feel by this time--"

She looked panic-stricken immediately. "Oh, no," she protested, quickly. "No, I don't, and--"

"Yes, you do," he said, and his voice shook a little. "You couldn't help knowing."

"But I do!" she denied, hurriedly. "I do help knowing. I mean--Oh, wait!"

"What for? You do know how I feel, and you--well, you've certainly WANTED me to feel that way--or
else pretended--"

"Now, now!" she lamented. "You're spoiling such a cheerful afternoon!"

"'Spoilin' it!'" He slowed down the car and turned his face to her squarely. "See here, Miss
Vertrees, haven't you--"

"Stop! Stop the car a minute." And when he had complied she faced him as squarely as he evidently
desired her to face him. "Listen. I don't want you to go on, to-day."

"Why not?" he asked, sharply.

"I don't know."

"You mean it's just a whim?"

"I don't know," she repeated. Her voice was low and troubled and honest, and she kept her clear
eyes upon his.

"Will you tell me something?"

"Almost anything."

"Have you ever told any man you loved him?"

And at that, though she laughed, she looked a little contemptuous. "No," she said. "And I don't
think I ever shall tell any man that--or ever know what it means. I'm in earnest, Mr. Sheridan."

"Then you--you've just been flirting with me!" Poor Jim looked both furious and crestfallen.

"Not one bit!" she cried. "Not one word! Not one syllable! I've meant every single thing!"

"I don't--"

"Of course you don't!" she said. "Now, Mr. Sheridan, I want you to start the car. Now! Thank
you. Slowly, till I finish what I have to say. I have not flirted with you. I have deliberately
courted you. One thing more, and then I want you to take me straight home, talking about the
weather all the way. I said that I do not believe I shall ever 'care' for any man, and that
is true. I doubt the existence of the kind of 'caring' we hear about in poems and plays and
novels. I think it must be just a kind of emotional TALK--most of it. At all events, I don't
feel it. Now, we can go faster, please."

"Just where does that let me out?" he demanded. "How does that excuse you for--"

"It isn't an excuse," she said, gently, and gave him one final look, wholly desolate. "I haven't
said I should never marry."

"What?" Jim gasped.

She inclined her head in a broken sort of acquiescence, very humble, unfathomably sorrowful.

"I promise nothing," she said, faintly.

"You needn't!" shouted Jim, radiant and exultant. "You needn't! By George! I know you're square;
that's enough for me! You wait and promise whenever you're ready!"

"Don't forget what I asked," she begged him.

"Talk about the weather? I will! God bless the old weather!" cried the happy Jim.

CHAPTER IX

Through the open country Bibbs was borne flying between brown fields and sun-flecked groves
of gray trees, to breathe the rushing, clean air beneath a glorious sky--that sky so despised
in the city, and so maltreated there, that from early October to mid-May it was impossible
for men to remember that blue is the rightful color overhead.

Upon each of Bibbs's cheeks there was a hint of something almost resembling a pinkishness;
not actual color, but undeniably its phantom. How largely this apparition may have been the
work of the wind upon his face it is difficult to calculate, for beyond a doubt it was partly
the result of a lady's bowing to him upon no more formal introduction than the circumstance
of his having caught her looking into his window a month before. She had bowed definitely;
she had bowed charmingly. And it seemed to Bibbs that she must have meant to convey her forgiveness.

There had been something in her recognition of him unfamiliar to his experience, and he rode
the warmer for it. Nor did he lack the impression that he would long remember her as he had
just seen her: her veil tumultuously blowing back, her face glowing in the wind--and that look
of gay friendliness tossed to him like a fresh rose in carnival.

By and by, upon a rising ground, the driver halted the car, then backed and tacked, and sent
it forward again with its nose to the south and the smoke. Far before him Bibbs saw the great
smudge upon the horizon, that nest of cloud in which the city strove and panted like an engine
shrouded in its own steam. But to Bibbs, who had now to go to the very heart of it, for a commanded
interview with his father, the distant cloud was like an implacable genius issuing thunderously
in smoke from his enchanted bottle, and irresistibly drawing Bibbs nearer and nearer.

They passed from the farm lands, and came, in the amber light of November late afternoon, to
the farthermost outskirts of the city; and here the sky shimmered upon the verge of change
from blue to gray; the smoke did not visibly permeate the air, but it was there, nevertheless--impalpable,
thin, no more than the dust of smoke. And then, as the car drove on, the chimneys and stacks
of factories came swimming up into view like miles of steamers advancing abreast, every funnel
with its vast plume, savage and black, sweeping to the horizon, dripping wealth and dirt and
suffocation over league on league already rich and vile with grime.

The sky had become only a dingy thickening of the soiled air; and a roar and clangor of metals
beat deafeningly on Bibbs's ears. And now the car passed two great blocks of long brick buildings,
hideous in all ways possible to make them hideous; doorways showing dark one moment and lurid
the next with the leap of some virulent interior flame, revealing blackened giants, half naked,
in passionate action, struggling with formless things in the hot illumination. And big as these
shops were, they were growing bigger, spreading over a third block, where two new structures
were mushrooming to completion in some hasty cement process of a stability not over-reassuring.
Bibbs pulled the rug closer about him, and not even the phantom of color was left upon his
cheeks as he passed this place, for he knew it too well. Across the face of one of the buildings
there was an enormous sign: "Sheridan Automatic Pump Co., Inc."

Thence they went through streets of wooden houses, all grimed, and adding their own grime from
many a sooty chimney; flimsey wooden houses of a thousand flimsy whimsies in the fashioning,
built on narrow lots and nudging one another crossly, shutting out the stingy sunlight from
one another; bad neighbors who would destroy one another root and branch some night when the
right wind blew. They were only waiting for that wind and a cigarette, and then they would
all be gone together--a pinch of incense burned upon the tripod of the god.

Along these streets there were skinny shade-trees, and here and there a forest elm or walnut
had been left; but these were dying. Some people said it was the scale; some said it was the
smoke; and some were sure that asphalt and "improving" the streets did it; but Bigness was
in too Big a hurry to bother much about trees. He had telegraph-poles and telephone-poles and
electric-light-poles and trolley-poles by the thousand to take their places. So he let the
trees die and put up his poles. They were hideous, but nobody minded that; and sometimes the
wires fell and killed people--but not often enough to matter at all.

Thence onward the car bore Bibbs through the older parts of the town where the few solid old
houses not already demolished were in transition: some, with their fronts torn away, were being
made into segments of apartment-buildings; others had gone uproariously into trade, brazenly
putting forth "show-windows" on their first floors, seeming to mean it for a joke; one or two
with unaltered facades peeped humorously over the tops of temporary office buildings of one
story erected in the old front yards. Altogether, the town here was like a boarding-house hash
the Sunday after Thanksgiving; the old ingredients were discernible.

This was the fringe of Bigness's own sanctuary, and now Bibbs reached the roaring holy of holies
itself. The car must stop at every crossing while the dark-garbed crowds, enveloped in maelstroms
of dust, hurried before it. Magnificent new buildings, already dingy, loomed hundreds of feet
above him; newer ones, more magnificent, were rising beside them, rising higher; old buildings
were coming down; middle-aged buildings were coming down; the streets were laid open to their
entrails and men worked underground between palisades, and overhead in metal cobwebs like spiders
in the sky. Trolley-cars and long interurban cars, built to split the wind like torpedo-boats,
clanged and shrieked their way round swarming corners; motor-cars of every kind and shape known
to man babbled frightful warnings and frantic demands; hospital ambulances clamored wildly
for passage; steam-whistles signaled the swinging of titanic tentacle and claw; riveters rattled
like machine-guns; the ground shook to the thunder of gigantic trucks; and the conglomerate
sound of it all was the sound of earthquake playing accompaniments for battle and sudden death.
On one of the new steel buildings no work was being done that afternoon. The building had killed
a man in the morning--and the steel-workers always stop for the day when that "happens."

And in the hurrying crowds, swirling and sifting through the brobdingnagian camp of iron and
steel, one saw the camp-followers and the pagan women--there would be work to-day and dancing
to-night. For the Puritan's dry voice is but the crackling of a leaf underfoot in the rush
and roar of the coming of the new Egypt.

Bibbs was on time. He knew it must be "to the minute" or his father would consider it an outrage;
and the big chronometer in Sheridan's office marked four precisely when Bibbs walked in. Coincidentally
with his entrance five people who had been at work in the office, under Sheridan's direction,
walked out. They departed upon no visible or audible suggestion, and with a promptness that
seemed ominous to the new-comer. As the massive door clicked softly behind the elderly stenographer,
the last of the procession, Bibbs had a feeling that they all understood that he was a failure
as a great man's son, a disappointment, the "queer one" of the family, and that he had been
summoned to judgment--a well-founded impression, for that was exactly what they understood.

"Sit down," said Sheridan.

It is frequently an advantage for deans, school-masters, and worried fathers to place delinquents
in the sitting-posture. Bibbs sat.

Sheridan, standing, gazed enigmatically upon his son for a period of silence, then walked slowly
to a window and stood looking out of it, his big hands, loosely hooked together by the thumbs,
behind his back. They were soiled, as were all other hands down-town, except such as might
be still damp from a basin.

"Well, Bibbs," he said at last, not altering his attitude, "do you know what I'm goin' to do
with you?"

Bibbs, leaning back in his chair, fixed his eyes contemplatively upon the ceiling. "I heard
you tell Jim," he began, in his slow way. "You said you'd send him to the machine-shop with
me if he didn't propose to Miss Vertrees. So I suppose that must be your plan for me. That i there was quite reserved; and before we passed S her angularity
had so far worn over off Passion babbled though he was commissioned
to bear grass of s England.

Too, did you did cry down all a crest and a monogram and a superscription
had to be proud pillows of.


"Liver, maybe," said Bibbs, gently.

"Boh! Even ole Doc Gurney says there's nothin' wrong with you organically. No. You're a dreamer,
Bibbs; that's what's the matter, and that's ALL the matter. Oh, not one o' these BIG dreamers
that put through the big deals! No, sir! You're the kind o' dreamer that just sets out on the
back fence and thinks about how much trouble there must be in the world! That ain't the kind
that builds the bridges, Bibbs; it's the kind that borrows fifteen cents from his wife's uncle's
brother-in-law to get ten cent's worth o' plug tobacco and a nickel's worth o' quinine!"

He put the finishing touch on this etching with a snort, and turned again to the window.

"Look out there!" he bade his son. "Look out o' that window! Look at the life and energy down
there! I should think ANY young man's blood would tingle to get into it and be part of it.
Look at the big things young men are doin' in this town!" He swung about, coming to the mahogany
desk in the middle of the room. "Look at what I was doin' at your age! Look at what your own
brothers are doin'! Look at Roscoe! Yes, and look at Jim! I made Jim president o' the Sheridan
Realty Company last New-Year's, with charge of every inch o' ground and every brick and every
shingle and stick o' wood we own; and it's an example to any young man--or ole man, either--the
way he took ahold of it. Last July we found out we wanted two more big warehouses at the Pump
Works--wanted 'em quick. Contractors said it couldn't be done; said nine or ten months at the
soonest; couldn't see it any other way. What'd Jim do? Took the contract himself; found a fellow
with a new cement and concrete process; kept men on the job night and day, and stayed on it
night and day himself--and, by George! we begin to USE them warehouses next week! Four months
and a half, and every inch fireproof! I tell you Jim's one o' these fellers that make miracles
happen! Now, I don't say every young man can be like Jim, because there's mighty few got his
ability, but every young man can go in and do his share. This town is God's own country, and
there's opportunity for anybody with a pound of energy and an ounce o' gumption. I tell you
these young business men I watch just do my heart good! THEY don't set around on the back fence--no,
sir! They take enough exercise to keep their health; and they go to a baseball game once or
twice a week in summer, maybe, and they're raisin' nice families, with sons to take their places
sometime and carry on the work--because the work's got to go ON! They're puttin' their life-blood
into it, I tell you, and that's why we're gettin' bigger every minute, and why THEY'RE gettin'
bigger, and why it's all goin' to keep ON gettin' bigger!"

He slapped the desk resoundingly with his open palm, and then, observing that Bibbs remained
in the same impassive attitude, with his eyes still fixed upon the ceiling in a contemplation
somewhat plaintive, Sheridan was impelled to groan. "Oh, Lord!" he said. "This is the way you
always were. I don't believe you understood a darn word I been sayin'! You don't LOOK as if
you did. By George! it's discouraging!"

"I don't understand about getting--about getting bigger," said Bibbs, bringing his gaze down
to look at his father placatively. "I don't see just why--"

"WHAT?" Sheridan leaned forward, resting his hands upon the desk and staring across it incredulously
at his son.

"I don't understand--exactly--what you want it all bigger for?"

"Great God!" shouted Sheridan, and struck the desk a blow with his clenched fist. "A son of
mine asks me that! You go out and ask the poorest day-laborer you can find! Ask him that question--"

"I did once," Bibbs interrupted; "when I was in the machine-shop. I--"

"Wha'd he say?"

"He said, 'Oh, hell!'" answered Bibbs, mildly.

"Yes, I reckon he would!" Sheridan swung away from the desk. "I reckon he certainly would!
And I got plenty sympathy with him right now, myself!"

"It's the same answer, then?" Bibbs's voice was serious, almost tremulous.

"Damnation!" Sheridan roared. "Did you ever hear the word Prosperity, you ninny? Did you ever
hear the word Ambition? Did you ever hear the word PROGRESS?"

He flung himself into a chair after the outburst, his big chest surging, his throat tumultuous
with gutteral incoherences. "Now then," he said, huskily, when the anguish had somewhat abated,
"what do you want to do?"

"Sir?"

"What do you WANT to do, I said."

Taken by surprise, Bibbs stammered. "What--what do--I--what--"

"If I'd let you do exactly what you had the whim for, what would you do?"

Bibbs looked startled; then timidity overwhelmed him--a profound shyness. He bent his head
and fixed his lowered eyes upon the toe of his shoe, which he moved to and fro upon the rug,
like a culprit called to the desk in school.

"What would you do? Loaf?"

"No, sir." Bibbs's voice was almost inaudible, and what little sound it made was unquestionably
a guilty sound. "I suppose I'd--I'd--"

"Well?"

"I suppose I'd try to--to write."

"Write what?"

"Nothing important--just poems and essays, perhaps."

"That all?"

"Yes, sir."

"I see," said his father, breathing quickly with the restraint he was putting upon himself.
"That is, you want to write, but you don't want to write anything of any account."

"You think--"

Sheridan got up again. "I take my hat off to the man that can write a good ad," he said, emphatically.
"The best writin' talent in this country is right spang in the ad business to-day. You buy
a magazine for good writin'--look on the back of it! Let me tell you I pay money for that kind
o' writin'. Maybe you think it's easy. Just try it! I've tried it, and I can't do it. I tell
you an ad's got to be written so it makes people do the hardest thing in this world to GET
'em to do: it's got to make 'em give up their MONEY! You talk about 'poems and essays.' I tell
you when it comes to the actual skill o' puttin' words together so as to make things HAPPEN,
R. T. Bloss, right here in this city, knows more in a minute than George Waldo Emerson ever
knew in his whole life!"

"You--you may be--" Bibbs said, indistinctly, the last word smothered in a cough.

"Of COURSE I'm right! And if it ain't just like you to want to take up with the most out-o'-date
kind o' writin' there is! 'Poems and essays'! My Lord, Bibbs, that's WOMEN'S work! You can't
pick up a newspaper without havin' to see where Mrs. Rumskididle read a paper on 'Jane Eyre,'
or 'East Lynne,' at the God-Knows-What Club. And 'poetry'! Why, look at Edith! I expect that
poem o' hers would set a pretty high-water mark for you, young man, and it's the only one she's
ever managed to write in her whole LIFE! When I wanted her to go on and write some more she
said it took too much time. Said it took months and months. And Edith's a smart girl; she's
got more energy in her little finger than you ever give me a chance to see in your whole body,
Bibbs. Now look at the facts: say she could turn out four or five poems a year and you could
turn out maybe two. That medal she got was worth about fifteen dollars, so there's your income--thirty
dollars a year! That's a fine success to make of your life! I'm not sayin' a word against poetry.
I wouldn't take ten thousand dollars right now for that poem of Edith's; and poetry's all right
enough in its place--but you leave it to the girls. A man's got to do a man's work in this world!"

He seated himself in a chair at his son's side and, leaning over, tapped Bibbs confidentially
on the knee. "This city's got the greatest future in America, and if my sons behave right by
me and by themselves they're goin' to have a mighty fair share of it--a mighty fair share.
I love this town. It's God's own footstool, and it's made money for me every day right along,
I don't know how many years. I love it like I do my own business, and I'd fight for it as quick
as I'd fight for my own family. It's a beautiful town. Look at our wholesale district; look
at any district you want to; look at the park system we're puttin' through, and the boulevards
and the public statuary. And she grows. God! how she grows!" He had become intensely grave;
he spoke with solemnity. "Now, Bibbs, I can't take any of it--nor any gold or silver nor buildings
nor bonds--away with me in my shroud when I have to go. But I want to leave my share in it
to my boys. I've worked for it; I've been a builder and a maker; and two blades of grass have
grown where one grew before, whenever I laid my hand on the ground and willed 'em to grow.
I've built big, and I want the buildin' to go on. And when my last hour comes I want to know
that my boys are ready to take charge; that they're fit to take charge and go ON with it. Bibbs,
when that hour comes I want to know that my boys are big men, ready and fit to hold of big
things. Bibbs, when I'm up above I want to know that the big share I've made mine, here below,
is growin' bigger and bigger in the charge of my boys."

He leaned back, deeply moved. "There!" he said, huskily. "I've never spoken more what was in
my heart in my life. I do it because I want you to understand--and not think me a mean father.
I never had to talk that way to Jim and Roscoe. They understood without any talk, Bibbs."

"I see," said Bibbs. "At least I think I do. But--"

"Wait a minute!" Sheridan raised his hand. "If you see the least bit in the world, then you
understand how it feels to me to have my son set here and talk about 'poems and essays' and
such-like fooleries. And you must understand, too, what it meant to start one o' my boys and
have him come back on me the way you did, and have to be sent to a sanitarium because he couldn't
stand work. Now, let's get right down to it, Bibbs. I've had a whole lot o' talk with ole Doc
Gurney about you, one time another, and I reckon I understand your case just about as well
as he does, anyway! Now here, I'll be frank with you. I started you in harder than what I did
the other boys, and that was for your own good, because I saw you needed to be shook up more'n
they did. You were always kind of moody and mopish--and you needed work that'd keep you on
the jump. Now, why did it make you sick instead of brace you up and make a man of you the way
it ought of done? I pinned ole Gurney down to it. I says, 'Look here, ain't it really because
he just plain hated it?' 'Yes,' he says, 'that's it. If he'd enjoyed it, it wouldn't 'a' hurt
him. He loathes it, and that affects his nervous system. The more he tries it, the more he
hates it; and the more he hates it, the more injury it does him.' That ain't quite his words,
but it's what he meant. And that's about the way it is."

"Yes," said Bibbs, "that's about the way it is."

"Well, then, I reckon it's up to me not only to make you do it, but to make you like it!"

Bibbs shivered. And he turned upon his father a look that was almost ghostly. "I can't," he
said, in a low voice. "I can't."

"Can't go back to the shop?"

"No. Can't like it. I can't."

Sheridan jumped up, his patience gone. To his own view, he had reasoned exhaustively, had explained
fully and had pleaded more than a father should, only to be met in the end with the unreasoning
and mysterious stubbornness which had been Bibbs's baffling characteristic from childhood.
"By George, you will!" he cried. "You'll go back there and you'll like it! Gurney says it won't
hurt you if you like it, and he says it'll kill you if you go back and hate it; so it looks
as if it was about up to you not to hate it. Well, Gurney's a fool! Hatin' work doesn't kill
anybody; and this isn't goin' to kill you, whether you hate it or not. I've never made a mistake
in a serious matter in my life, and it wasn't a mistake my sendin' you there in the first place.
And I'm goin' to prove it--I'm goin' to send you back there and vindicate my judgment. Gurney
says it's all 'mental attitude.' Well, you're goin' to learn the right one! He says in a couple
more months this fool thing that's been the matter with you'll be disappeared completely and
you'll be back in as good or better condition than you were before you ever went into the shop.
And right then is when you begin over--right in that same shop! Nobody can call me a hard man
or a mean father. I do the best I can for my chuldern, and I take full responsibility for bringin'
my sons up to be men. Now, so far, I've failed with you. But I'm not goin' to keep ON failin'.
I never tackled a job YET I didn't put through, and I'm not goin' to begin with my own son.
I'm goin' to make a MAN of you. By God! I am!"

Bibbs rose and went slowly to the door, where he turned. "You say you give me a couple of months?"
he said.

Sheridan pushed a bell-button on his desk. "Gurney said two months more would put you back
where you were. You go home and begin to get yourself in the right 'mental attitude' before
those two months are up! Good-by!"

"Good-by, sir," said Bibbs, meekly.

CHAPTER X

Bibbs's room, that neat apartment for transients to which the "lamidal" George had shown him
upon his return, still bore the appearance of temporary quarters, possibly because Bibbs had
no clear conception of himself as a permanent incumbent. However, he had set upon the mantelpiece
the two photographs that he owned: one, a "group" twenty years old--his father and mother,
with Jim and Roscoe as boys--and the other a "cabinet" of Edith at sixteen. And upon a table
were the books he had taken from his trunk: Sartor Resartus, Virginibus Puerisque, Huckleberry
Finn, and Afterwhiles. There were some other books in the trunk--a large one, which remained
unremoved at the foot of the bed, adding to the general impression of transiency. It contained
nearly all the possessions as well as the secret life of Bibbs Sheridan, and Bibbs sat beside
it, the day after his interview with his father, raking over a small collection of manuscripts
in the top tray. Some of these he glanced through dubiously, finding little comfort in them;
but one made him smile. Then he shook his head ruefully indeed, and ruefully began to read
it. It was written on paper stamped "Hood Sanitarium," and bore the title, "Leisure."

  A man may keep a quiet heart at seventy miles an hour, but not if
  he is running the train.  Nor is the habit of contemplation a useful
  quality in the stoker of a foundry furnace; it will not be found to
  recommend him to the approbation of his superiors.  For a profession
  adapted solely to the pursuit of happiness in thinking, I would
  choose that of an invalid:  his money is time and he may spend it on
  Olympus.  It will not suffice to be an amateur invalid.  To my way
  of thinking, the perfect practitioner must be to all outward
  purposes already dead if he is to begin the perfect enjoyment of
  life.  His serenity must not be disturbed by rumors of recovery; he
  must lie serene in his long chair in the sunshine.  The world must
  be on the other side of the wall, and the wall must be so thick and
  so high that he cannot hear the roaring of the furnace fires and the
  screaming of the whistles.  Peace--

Having read so far as the word "peace," Bibbs suffered an interruption interesting as a coincidence
of contrast. High voices sounded in the hall just outside his door; and it became evident that
a woman's quarrel was in progress, the parties to it having begun it in Edith's room, and continuing
it vehemently as they came out into the hall.

"Yes, you BETTER go home!" Bibbs heard his sister vociferating, shrilly. "You better go home
and keep your mind a little more on your HUSBAND!"

"Edie, Edie!" he heard his mother remonstrating, as peacemaker.

"You see here!" This was Sibyl, and her voice was both acrid and tremulous. "Don't you talk
to me that way! I came here to tell Mother Sheridan what I'd heard, and to let her tell Father
Sheridan if she thought she ought to, and I did it for your own good."

"Yes, you did!" And Edith's gibing laughter tooted loudly. "Yes, you did! YOU didn't have any
other reason! OH no! YOU don't want to break it up between Bobby Lamhorn and me because--"

"Edie, Edie! Now, now!"

"Oh, hush up, mamma! I'd like to know, then, if she says her new friends tell her he's got
such a reputation that he oughtn't to come here, what about his not going to HER house. How--"

"I've explained that to Mother Sheridan." Sibyl's voice indicated that she was descending the
stairs. "Married people are not the same. Some things that should be shielded from a young girl--"

This seemed to have no very soothing effect upon Edith. "'Shielded from a young girl'!" she
shrilled. "You seem pretty willing to be the shield! You look out Roscoe doesn't notice what
kind of a shield you are!" 

One day, with an canoes, oh we were paddling out the stream; on bank who stretched the forest, sibyl face
like a trees to which approached to man'did they said grope edge,
while the ends of skirts fell down into them rose, and be spare plants
had brilliantly be raised its consequences, any river.

From the branches of curious-looking primate gazed almost bandaged in s, chattering
have heard of close as if separating what enterprise we had done in
varied domains; cadences of instantly be colored on wing, making began
the mother minutes with other and impenetrable notes; the invading
mho would now approach nothing to phonograph; the husky who would not
stalk out in all his library, while thus and there dare again, and
so just to the canoes, thus yards were anon, as a startle and Sheridan,
and the pleasant and startling mrs would to be thrust above husband.
The day of what did i to speak the third she had so cracked of adventure
to cat; it was not, however, to have so white that the white to as
the close--.

Journeying anything perforce by water is the very and good battle,
that each silence, through forest, which, although restful, inquisitively
becomes the gesture.

When within hands of spot where we intended camping, as our larder was little, and do i told the trader i
would suddenly sit and procure the supper, but that i would be alone meet him did before ever be
at trysting-hand.

My canoe was long have been directed to shore. Taking in they had four
of natives, to noise and which game that i might here shoot t, i plunged
out into forest. I did not go accordingly close from the cadences say
you of river, for her, as the Roscoe day was drawing for the broad
consequences, do i was in all eyes of meeting you have with plenty
of ll water; clearly do i postdate to the camping-spot.

The plunge from brilliancy of some voice to several hall upon each forest who made it did actually
in red servants do to see anything apparently until your fingers
got come to the position; deathly as they there was now spun for the
time at. your way along anything.


In the first place, it's a falsehood, and I don't believe a word of it; and in the second place
I know the reason she did it, and, what's more, she KNOWS I know it! I won't SAY what it is--not
yet--because papa and all of you would think I'm as crazy as she is snaky; and Roscoe's such
a fool he'd probably quit speaking to me. But it's true! Just you watch her; that's all I ask.
Just you watch that woman. You'll see!"

As it happened, Bibbs was literally watching "that woman." Glancing from the window, he saw
Sibyl pause upon the pavement in front of the old house next door. She stood a moment, in deep
thought, then walked quickly up the path to the door, undoubtedly with the intention of calling.
But he did not mention this to his sister, who, after delivering herself of a rather vague
jeremiad upon the subject of her sister-in-law's treacheries, departed to her own chamber,
leaving him to his speculations. The chief of these concerned the social elasticities of women.
Sibyl had just been a participant in a violent scene; she had suffered hot insult of a kind
that could not fail to set her quivering with resentment; and yet she elected to betake herself
to the presence of people whom she knew no more than "formally." Bibbs marveled. Surely, he
reflected, some traces of emotion must linger upon Sibyl's face or in her manner; she could
not have ironed it all quite out in the three or four minutes it took her to reach the Vertreeses'
door.

And in this he was not mistaken, for Mary Vertrees was at that moment wondering what internal
excitement Mrs. Roscoe Sheridan was striving to master. But Sibyl had no idea that she was
allowing herself to exhibit anything except the gaiety which she conceived proper to the manner
of a casual caller. She was wholly intent upon fulfilling the sudden purpose that brought her,
and she was no more self-conscious than she was finely intelligent. For Sibyl Sheridan belonged
to a type Scriptural in its antiquity. She was merely the idle and half-educated intriguer
who may and does delude men, of course, and the best and dullest of her own sex as well, finding
invariably strong supporters among these latter. It is a type that has wrought some damage
in the world and would have wrought greater, save for the check put upon its power by intelligent
women and by its own "lack of perspective," for it is a type that never sees itself. Sibyl
followed her impulses with no reflection or question--it was like a hound on the gallop after
a master on horseback. She had not even the instinct to stop and consider her effect. If she
wished to make a certain impression she believed that she made it. She believed that she was
believed.

"My mother asked me to say that she was sorry she couldn't come down," Mary said, when they
were seated.

Sibyl ran the scale of a cooing simulance of laughter, which she had been brought up to consider
the polite thing to do after a remark addressed to her by any person with whom she was not
on familiar terms. It was intended partly as a courtesy and partly as the foundation for an
impression of sweetness.

"Just thought I'd fly in a minute," she said, continuing the cooing to relieve the last doubt
of her gentiality. "I thought I'd just behave like REAL country neighbors. We are almost out
in the country, so far from down-town, aren't we? And it seemed such a LOVELY day! I wanted
to tell you how much I enjoyed meeting those nice people at tea that afternoon. You see, coming
here a bride and never having lived here before, I've had to depend on my husband's friends
almost entirely, and I really've known scarcely anybody. Mr. Sheridan has been so engrossed
in business ever since he was a mere boy, why, of course--"

She paused, with the air of having completed an explanation.

"Of course," said Mary, sympathetically accepting it.

"Yes. I've been seeing quite a lot of the Kittersbys since that afternoon," Sibyl went on.
"They're really delightful people. Indeed they are! Yes--"

She stopped with unconscious abruptness, her mind plainly wandering to another matter; and
Mary perceived that she had come upon a definite errand. Moreover, a tensing of Sibyl's eyelids,
in that moment of abstraction as she looked aside from her hostess, indicated that the errand
was a serious one for the caller and easily to be connected with the slight but perceptible
agitation underlying her assumption of cheerful ease. There was a restlessness of breathing,
a restlessness of hands.

"Mrs. Kittersby and her daughter were chatting about some to the people here in town the other
day," said Sibyl, repeating the cooing and protracting it. "They said something that took ME
by surprise! We were talking about our mutual friend, Mr. Robert Lamhorn--"

Mary interrupted her promptly. "Do you mean 'mutual' to include my mother and me?" she asked.

"Why, yes; the Kittersbys and you and all of us Sheridans, I mean."

"No," said Mary. "We shouldn't consider Mr. Robert Lamhorn a friend of ours."

To her surprise, Sibyl nodded eagerly, as if greatly pleased. "That's just the way Mrs. Kittersby
talked!" she cried, with a vehemence that made Mary stare. "Yes, and I hear that's the way
ALL you old families here speak of him!"

Mary looked aside, but otherwise she was able to maintain her composure. "I had the impression
he was a friend of yours," she said; adding, hastily, "and your husband's."

"Oh yes," said the caller, absently. "He is, certainly. A man's reputation for a little gaiety
oughtn't to make a great difference to married people, of course. It's where young girls are
in question. THEN it may be very, very dangerous. There are a great many things safe and proper
for married people that might be awf'ly imprudent for a young girl. Don't you agree, Miss Vertrees?"

"I don't know," returned the frank Mary. "Do you mean that you intend to remain a friend of
Mr. Lamhorn's, but disapprove of Miss Sheridan's doing so?"

"That's it exactly!" was the naive and ardent response of Sibyl. "What I feel about it is that
a man with his reputation isn't at all suitable for Edith, and the family ought to be made
to understand it. I tell you," she cried, with a sudden access of vehemence, "her father ought
to put his foot down!"

Her eyes flashed with a green spark; something seemed to leap out and then retreat, but not
before Mary had caught a glimpse of it, as one might catch a glimpse of a thing darting forth
and then scuttling back into hiding under a bush.

"Of course," said Sibyl, much more composedly, "I hardly need say that it's entirely on Edith's
account that I'm worried about this. I'm as fond of Edith as if she was really my sister, and
I can't help fretting about it. It would break my heart to have Edith's life spoiled."

This tune was off the key, to Mary's ear. Sibyl tried to sing with pathos, but she flatted.

And when a lady receives a call from another who suffers under the stress of some feeling which
she wishes to conceal, there is not uncommonly developed a phenomenon of duality comparable
to the effect obtained by placing two mirrors opposite each other, one clear and the other
flawed. In this case, particularly, Sibyl had an imperfect consciousness of Mary. The Mary
Vertrees that she saw was merely something to be cozened to her own frantic purpose--a Mary
Vertrees who was incapable of penetrating that purpose. Sibyl sat there believing that she
was projecting the image of herself that she desired to project, never dreaming that with every
word, every look, and every gesture she was more and more fully disclosing the pitiable truth
to the clear eyes of Mary. And the Sibyl that Mary saw was an overdressed woman, in manner
half rustic, and in mind as shallow as a pan, but possessed by emotions that appeared to be
strong--perhaps even violent. What those emotions were Mary had not guessed, but she began
to suspect.

"And Edith's life WOULD be spoiled," Sibyl continued. "It would be a dreadful thing for the
whole family. She's the very apple of Father Sheridan's eye, and he's as proud of her as he
is of Jim and Roscoe. It would be a horrible thing for him to have her marry a man like Robert
Lamhorn; but he doesn't KNOW anything about him, and if somebody doesn't tell him, what I'm
most afraid of is that Edith might get his consent and hurry on the wedding before he finds
out, and then it would be too late. You see, Miss Vertrees, it's very difficult for me to decide
just what it's my duty to do."

"I see," said Mary, looking at her thoughtfully, "Does Miss Sheridan seem to--to care very
much about him?"

"He's deliberately fascinated her," returned the visitor, beginning to breathe quickly and
heavily. "Oh, she wasn't difficult! She knew she wasn't in right in this town, and she was
crazy to meet the people that were, and she thought he was one of 'em. But that was only the
start that made it easy for him--and he didn't need it. He could have done it, anyway!" Sibyl
was launched now; her eyes were furious and her voice shook. "He went after her deliberately,
the way he does everything; he's as cold-blooded as a fish. All he cares about is his own pleasure,
and lately he's decided it would be pleasant to get hold of a piece of real money--and there
was Edith! And he'll marry her! Nothing on earth can stop him unless he finds out she won't
HAVE any money if she marries him, and the only person that could make him understand that
is Father Sheridan. Somehow, that's got to be managed, because Lamhorn is going to hurry it
on as fast as he can. He told me so last night. He said he was going to marry her the first
minute he could persuade her to it--and little Edith's all ready to be persuaded!" Sibyl's
eyes flashed green again. "And he swore he'd do it," she panted. "He swore he'd marry Edith
Sheridan, and nothing on earth could stop him!"

And then Mary understood. Her lips parted and she stared at the babbling creature incredulously,
a sudden vivid picture in her mind, a canvas of unconscious Sibyl's painting. Mary beheld it
with pity and horror: she saw Sibyl clinging to Robert Lamhorn, raging, in a whisper, perhaps--for
Roscoe might have been in the house, or servants might have heard. She saw Sibyl entreating,
beseeching, threatening despairingly, and Lamhorn--tired of her--first evasive, then brutally
letting her have the truth; and at last, infuriated, "swearing" to marry her rival. If Sibyl
had not babbled out the word "swore" it might have been less plain.

The poor woman blundered on, wholly unaware of what she had confessed. "You see," she said,
more quietly, "whatever's going to be done ought to be done right away. I went over and told
Mother Sheridan what I'd heard about Lamhorn--oh, I was open and aboveboard! I told her right
before Edith. I think it ought all to be done with perfect frankness, because nobody can say
it isn't for the girl's own good and what her best friend would do. But Mother Sheridan's under
Edith's thumb, and she's afraid to ever come right out with anything. Father Sheridan's different.
Edith can get anything she wants out of him in the way of money or ordinary indulgence, but
when it comes to a matter like this he'd be a steel rock. If it's a question of his will against
anybody else's he'd make his will rule if it killed 'em both! Now, he'd never in the world
let Lamhorn come near the house again if he knew his reputation. So, you see, somebody's got
to tell him. It isn't a very easy position for me, is it, Miss Vertrees?"

"No," said Mary, gravely.

"Well, to be frank," said Sibyl, smiling, "that's why I've come to you."

"To ME!" Mary frowned.

Sibyl rippled and cooed again. "There isn't ANYBODY ever made such a hit with Father Sheridan
in his life as you have. And of course we ALL hope you're not going to be exactly an outsider
in the affairs of the family!" (This sally with another and louder effect of laughter). "And
if it's MY duty, why, in a way, I think it might be thought yours, too."

"No, no!" exclaimed Mary, sharply.

"Listen," said Sibyl. "Now suppose I go to Father Sheridan with this story, and Edith says
it's not true; suppose she says Lamhorn has a good reputation and that I'm repeating irresponsible
gossip, or suppose (what's most likely) she loses her temper and says I invented it, then what
am I going to do? Father Sheridan doesn't know Mrs. Kittersby and her daughter, and they're
out of the question, anyway. But suppose I could say: 'All right, if you want proof, ask Miss
Vertrees. She came with me, and she's waiting in the next room right now, to--"

"No, no," said Mary, quickly. "You mustn't--"

"Listen just a minute more," Sibyl urged, confidingly. She was on easy ground now, to her own
mind, and had no doubt of her success. "You naturally don't want to begin by taking part in
a family quarrel, but if YOU take part in it, it won't be one. You don't know yourself what
weight you carry over there, and no one would have the right to say you did it except out of
the purest kindness. Don't you see that Jim and his father would admire you all the more for
it? Miss Vertrees, listen! Don't you see we OUGHT to do it, you and I? Do you suppose Robert
Lamhorn cares a snap of his finger for her? Do you suppose a man like him would LOOK at Edith
Sheridan if it wasn't for the money?" And again Sibyl's emotion rose to the surface. "I tell
you he's after nothing on earth but to get his finger in that old man's money-pile, over there,
next door! He'd marry ANYBODY to do it. Marry Edith?" she cried. "I tell you he'd marry their
nigger cook for THAT!"

She stopped, afraid--at the wrong time--that she had been too vehement, but a glance at Mary
reassured her, and Sibyl decided that she had produced the effect she wished. Mary was not
looking at her; she was staring straight before her at the wall, her eyes wide and shining.
She became visibly a little paler as Sibyl looked at her.

"After nothing on earth but to get his finger in that old man's money-pile, over there, next
door!" The voice was vulgar, the words were vulgar--and the plain truth was vulgar! How it
rang in Mary Vertrees's ears! The clear mirror had caught its own image clearly in the flawed
one at last.

Sibyl put forth her best bid to clench the matter. She offered her bargain. "Now don't you
worry," she said, sunnily, "about this setting Edith against you. She'll get over it after
a while, anyway, but if she tried to be spiteful and make it uncomfortable for you when you
drop in over there, or managed so as to sort of leave you out, why, I've got a house, and Jim
likes to come there. I don't THINK Edith WOULD be that way; she's too crazy to have you take
her around with the smart crowd, but if she DID, you needn't worry. And another thing--I guess
you won't mind Jim's own sister-in-law speaking of it. Of course, I don't know just how matters
stand between you and Jim, but Jim and Roscoe are about as much alike as two brothers can be,
and Roscoe was very slow making up his mind; sometimes I used to think he actually never WOULD.
Now, what I mean is, sisters-in-law can do lots of things to help matters on like that. There's
lots of little things can be said, and lots--"

She stopped, puzzled. Mary Vertrees had gone from pale to scarlet, and now, still scarlet indeed,
she rose, without a word of explanation, or any other kind of word, and walked slowly to the
open door and out of the room.

Sibyl was a little taken aback. She supposed Mary had remembered something neglected and necessary
for the instruction of a servant, and that she would return in a moment; but it was rather
a rude excess of absent-mindedness not to have excused herself, especially as her guest was
talking. And, Mary's return being delayed, Sibyl found time to think this unprefaced exit odder
and ruder than she had first considered it. There might have been more excuse for it, she thought,
had she been speaking of matters less important--offering to do the girl all the kindness in
her power, too!

Sibyl yawned and swung her muff impatiently; she examined the sole of her shoe; she decided
on a new shape of heel; she made an inventory of the furniture of the room, of the rugs, of
the wall-paper and engravings. Then she looked at her watch and frowned; went to a window and
stood looking out upon the brown lawn, then came back to the chair she had abandoned, and sat
again. There was no sound in the house.

A strange expression began imperceptibly to alter the planes of her face, and slowly she grew
as scarlet as Mary--scarlet to the ears. She looked at her watch again--and twenty-five minutes
had elapsed since she had looked at it before.

She went into the hall, glanced over her shoulder oddly; then she let herself softly out of
the front door, and went across the street to her own house.

Roscoe met her upon the threshold, gloomily. "Saw you from the window," he explained. "You
must find a lot to say to that old lady."

"What old lady?"

"Mrs. Vertrees. I been waiting for you a long time, and I saw the daughter come out, fifteen
minutes ago, and post a letter, and then walk on up the street. Don't stand out on the porch,"
he said, crossly. "Come in here. There's something it's come time I'll have to talk to you
about. Come in!"

But as she was moving to obey he glanced across at his father's house and started. He lifted
his hand to shield his eyes from the setting sun, staring fixedly. "Something's the matter
over there," he muttered, and then, more loudly, as alarm came into his voice, he said, "What's
the matter over there?"

Bibbs dashed out of the gate in an automobile set at its highest speed, and as he saw Roscoe
he made a gesture singularly eloquent of calamity, and was lost at once in a cloud of dust
down the street. Edith had followed part of the way down the drive, and it could be seen that
she was crying bitterly. She lifted both arms to Roscoe, summoning him.

"By George!" gasped Roscoe. "I believe somebody's dead!"

And he started for the New House at a run.

CHAPTER XI

Sheridan had decided to conclude his day's work early that afternoon, and at about two o'clock
he left his office with a man of affairs from foreign parts, who had traveled far for a business
conference with Sheridan and his colleagues. Herr Favre, in spite of his French name, was a
gentleman of Bavaria. It was his first visit to our country, and Sheridan took pleasure in
showing him the sights of the country's finest city. They got into an open car at the main
entrance of the Sheridan Building, and were driven first, slowly and momentously, through the
wholesale district and the retail district; then more rapidly they inspected the packing-houses
and the stock-yards; then skirmished over the "park system" and "boulevards"; and after that
whizzed through the "residence section" on their way to the factories and foundries.

"All cray," observed Herr Favre, smilingly.

"'Cray'?" echoed Sheridan. "I don't know what you mean. 'Cray'?"

"No white," said Herr Favre, with a wave of his hand toward the long rows of houses on both
sides of the street. "No white lace window-curtains; all cray lace window-curtains."

"Oh. I see!" Sheridan laughed indulgently. "You mean 'GRAY.' No, they ain't, they're white.
I never saw any gray ones."

Herr Favre shook his head, much amused. "There are NO white ones," he said. "There is no white
ANYTHING in your city; no white window-curtains, no white house, no white peeble!" He pointed
upward. "Smoke!" Then he sniffed the air and clasped his nose between forefinger and thumb.
"Smoke! Smoke ef'rywhere. Smoke in your insites." He tapped his chest. "Smoke in your lunks!"

"Oh! SMOKE!" Sheridan cried with gusto, drawing in a deep breath and patently finding it delicious.
"You BET we got smoke!"

"Exbensif!" said Herr Favre. "Ruins foliage; ruins fabrics. Maybe in summer it iss not so bad,
but I wonder your wifes will bear it."

Sheridan laughed uproariously. "They know it means new spring hats for 'em!"

"They must need many, too!" said the visitor. "New hats, new all things, but nothing white.
In Munchen we could not do it; we are a safing peeble."

"Where's that?"

"In Munchen. You say 'Munich.'"

"Well, I never been to Munich, but I took in the Mediterranean trip, and I tell you, outside
o' some right good scenery, all I saw was mighty dirty and mighty shiftless and mighty run-down
at the heel. Now comin' right down TO it, Mr. Farver, wouldn't you rather live here in this
town than in Munich? I know you got more enterprise up there than the part of the old country
I saw, and I know YOU'RE a live business man and you're associated with others like you, but
when it comes to LIVIN' in a place, wouldn't you heap rather be here than over there?"

"For me," said Herr Favre, "no. Here I should not think I was living. It would be like the
miner who goes into the mine to work; nothing else."

"We got a good many good citizens here from your part o' the world. THEY like it."

"Oh yes." And Herr Favre laughed deprecatingly. "The first generation, they bring their Germany
with them; then, after that, they are Americans, like you." He tapped his host's big knee genially.
"You are patriot; so are they."

"Well, I reckon you must be a pretty hot little patriot yourself, Mr. Farver!" Sheridan exclaimed,
gaily. "You certainly stand up for your own town, if you stick to sayin' you'd rather live
there than you would here. Yes, SIR! You sure are some patriot to say THAT--after you've seen
our city! It ain't reasonable in you, but I must say I kind of admire you for it; every man
ought to stick up for his own, even when he sees the other fellow's got the goods on him. Yet
I expect way down deep in your heart, Mr. Farver, you'd rather live right here than any place
else in the world, if you had your choice. Man alive! this is God's country, Mr. Farver, and
a blind man couldn't help seein' it! You couldn't stand where you do in a business way and
NOT see it. Soho, boy! Here we are. This is the big works, and I'll show you something now
that'll make your eyes stick out!"

They had arrived at the Pump Works; and for an hour Mr. Favre was personally conducted and
personally instructed by the founder and president, the buzzing queen bee of those buzzing hives.

"Now I'll take you for a spin in the country," said Sheridan, when at last they came out to
the car again. "We'll take a breezer." But, with his foot on the step, he paused to hail a
neat young man who came out of the office smiling a greeting. "Hello, young fellow!" Sheridan
said, heartily. "On the job, are you, Jimmie? Ha! They don't catch you OFF of it very often,
I guess, though I do hear you go automobile-ridin' in the country sometimes with a mighty fine-lookin'
girl settin' up beside you!" He roared with laughter, clapping his son upon the shoulder. "That's
all right with me--if it is with HER! So, Jimmie? Well, when we goin' to move into your new
warehouses? Monday?"

"Sunday, if you want to," said Jim.

"No!" cried his father, delighted. "Don't tell me you're goin' to keep your word about dates!
That's no way to do contractin'! Never heard of a contractor yet didn't want more time."

"They'll be all ready for you on the minute," said Jim. "I'm going over both of 'em now, with
Links and Sherman, from foundation to roof. I guess they'll pass inspection, too!"

"Well, then, when you get through with that," said his father, "you go and take your girl out
ridin'. By George! you've earned it! You tell her you stand high with ME!" He stepped into
the car, waving a waggish farewell, and when the wheels were in motion again, he turned upon
his companion a broad face literally shining with pride. "That's my boy Jimmie!" he said.

"Fine young man, yes," said Herr Favre.

"I got two o' the finest boys," said Sheridan, "I got two o' the finest boys God ever made,
and that's a fact, Mr. Farver! Jim's the oldest, and I tell you they got to get up the day
before if they expect to catch HIM in bed! My other boy, Roscoe, he's always to the good, too,
but Jim's a wizard. You saw them two new-process warehouses, just about finished? Well, JIM
built 'em. I'll tell you about that, Mr. Farver." And he recited this history, describing the
new process at length; in fact, he had such pride in Jim's achievement that he told Herr Favre
all about it more than once.

"Fine young man, yes," repeated the good Munchner, three-quarters of an hour later. They were
many miles out in the open country by this time.

"He is that!" said Sheridan, adding, as if confidentially: "I got a fine family, Mr. Farver--fine
chuldern. I got a daughter now; you take her and put her anywhere you please, and she'll shine
up with ANY of 'em. There's culture and refinement and society in this town by the car-load,
and here lately she's been gettin' right in the thick of it--her and my daughter-in-law, both.
I got a mighty fine daughter-in-law, Mr. Farver. I'm goin' to get you up for a meal with us
before you leave town, and you'll see--and, well, sir, from all I hear the two of 'em been
holdin' their own with the best. Myself, I and the wife never had time for much o' that kind
o' doin's, but it's all right and good for the chuldern; and my daughter she's always kind
of taken to it. I'll read you a poem she wrote when I get you up at the house. She wrote it
in school and took the first prize for poetry with it. I tell you they don't make 'em any smarter'n
that girl, Mr. Farver. Yes, sir; take us all round, we're a pretty happy family; yes, sir.
Roscoe hasn't got any chuldern yet, and I haven't ever spoke to him and his wife about it--it's
kind of a delicate matter--but it's about time the wife and I saw some gran'-chuldern growin'
up around us. I certainly do hanker for about four or five little curly-headed rascals to take
on my knee. Boys, I hope, o' course; that's only natural. Jim's got his eye on a mighty splendid-lookin'
girl; lives right next door to us. I expect you heard me joshin' him about it back yonder.
She's one of the ole blue-bloods here, and I guess it was a mighty good stock--to raise HER!
She's one these girls that stand right up and look at you! And pretty? She's the prettiest
thing you ever saw! Good size, too; good health and good sense. Jim'll be just right if he
gets her. I must say it tickles ME to think o' the way that boy took ahold o' that job back
yonder. Four months and a half! Yes, sir--"

He expanded this theme once more; and thus he continued to entertain the stranger throughout
the long drive. Darkness had fallen before they reached the city on their return, and it was
after five when Sheridan allowed Herr Favre to descend at the door of his hotel, where boys
were shrieking extra editions of the evening paper.

"Now, good night, Mr. Farver," said Sheridan, leaning from the car to shake hands with his
guest. "Don't forget I'm goin' to come around and take you up to--Go on away, boy!"

A newsboy had thrust himself almost between them, yelling, "Extry! Secon' Extry. Extry, all
about the horrable acciDENT. Extry!"

"Get out!" laughed Sheridan. "Who wants to read about accidents? Get out!"

The boy moved away philosophically. "Extry! Extry!" he shrilled. "Three men killed! Extry!
Millionaire killed! Two other men killed! Extry! Extry!"

"Don't forget, Mr. Farver," Sheridan completed his interrupted farewells. "I'll come by to
take you up to our house for dinner. I'll be here for you about half-past five to-morrow afternoon.
Hope you 'njoyed the drive much as I have. Good night--good night!" He leaned back, speaking
to the chauffer. "Now you can take me around to the Central City barber-shop, boy. I want to
get a shave 'fore I go up home."

"Extry! Extry!" screamed the newsboys, zig-zagging among the crowds like bats in the dusk.
"Extry! All about the horrable acciDENT! Extry!" It struck Sheridan that the papers sent out
too many "Extras"; they printed "Extras" for all sorts of petty crimes and casualties. It was
a mistake, he decided, critically. Crying "Wolf!" too often wouldn't sell the goods; it was
bad business. The papers would "make more in the long run," he was sure, if they published
an "Extra" only when something of real importance happened.

"Extry! All about the hor'ble AX'nt! Extry!" a boy squawked under his nose, as he descended
from the car.

"Go on away!" said Sheridan, gruffly, though he smiled. He liked to see the youngsters working
so noisily to get on in the world.

But as he crossed the pavement to the brilliant glass doors of the barber-shop, a second newsboy
grasped the arm of the one who had thus cried his wares.

"Say, Yallern," said this second, hoarse with awe, "'n't chew know who that IS?"

"Who?"

"It's SHERIDAN!"

"Jeest!" cried the first, staring insanely.

At about the same hour, four times a week--Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday--Sheridan
stopped at this shop to be shaved by the head barber. The barbers were negroes, he was their
great man, and it was their habit to give him a "reception," his entrance being always the
signal for a flurry of jocular hospitality, followed by general excesses of briskness and gaiety.
But it was not so this evening.

The shop was crowded. Copies of the "Extra" were being read by men waiting, and by men in the
latter stages of treatment. "Extras" lay upon vacant seats and showed from the pockets of hanging
coats.

There was a loud chatter between the practitioners and their recumbent patients, a vocal charivari
which stopped abruptly as Sheridan opened the door. His name seemed to fizz in the air like
the last sputtering of a firework; the barbers stopped shaving and clipping; lathered men turned
their prostrate heads to stare, and there was a moment of amazing silence in the shop.

The head barber, nearest the door, stood like a barber in a tableau. His left hand held stretched
between thumb and forefinger an elastic section of his helpless customer's cheek, while his
right hand hung poised above it, the razor motionless. And then, roused from trance by the
door's closing, he accepted the fact of Sheridan's presence. The barber remembered that there
are no circumstances in life--or just after it--under which a man does not need to be shaved.

He stepped forward, profoundly grave. "I be through with this man in the chair one minute,
Mist' Sheridan," he said, in a hushed tone. "Yessuh." And of a solemn negro youth who stood
by, gazing stupidly, "You goin' RESIGN?" he demanded in a fierce undertone. "You goin' take
Mist' Sheridan's coat?" He sent an angry look round the shop, and the barbers, taking his meaning,
averted their eyes and fell to work, the murmur of subdued conversation buzzing from chair
to chair.

"You sit down ONE minute, Mist' Sheridan," said the head barber, gently. "I fix nice chair
fo' you to wait in."

"Never mind," said Sheridan. "Go on get through with your man."

"Yessuh." And he went quickly back to his chair on tiptoe, followed by Sheridan's puzzled gaze.

Something had gone wrong in the shop, evidently. Sheridan did not know what to make of it.
Ordinarily he would have shouted a hilarious demand for the meaning of the mystery, but an
inexplicable silence had been imposed upon him by the hush that fell upon his entrance and
by the odd look every man in the shop had bent upon him.

Vaguely disquieted, he walked to one of the seats in the rear of the shop, and looked up and
down the two lines of barbers, catching quickly shifted, furtive glances here and there. He
made this brief survey after wondering if one of the barbers had died suddenly, that day, or
the night before; but there was no vacancy in either line.

The seat next to his was unoccupied, but some one had left a copy of the "Extra" there, and,
frowning, he picked it up and glanced at it. The first of the swollen display lines had little
meaning to him:

  Fatally Faulty.  New Process Roof Collapses Hurling Capitalist to
  Death with Inventor.  Seven Escape When Crash Comes.  Death Claims--

Thus far had he read when a thin hand fell upon the paper, covering the print from his eyes;
and, looking up, he saw Bibbs standing before him, pale and gentle, immeasurably compassionate.

"I've come for you, father," said Bibbs. "Here's the boy with your coat and hat. Put them on
and come home."

And even then Sheridan did not understand. So secure was he in the strength and bigness of
everything that was his, he did not know what calamity had befallen him. But he was frightened.

Without a word, he followed Bibbs heavily out throught the still shop, but as they reached
the pavement he stopped short and, grasping his son's sleeve with shaking fingers, swung him
round so that they stood face to face.

"What--what--" His mouth could not do him the service he asked of it, he was so frightened.

"Extry!" screamed a newsboy straight in his face. "Young North Side millionaire insuntly killed!
Extry!"

"Not--JIM!" said Sheridan.

Bibbs caught his father's hand in his own.

"And YOU come to tell me that?"

Sheridan did not know what he said. But in those first words and in the first anguish of the
big, stricken face Bibbs understood the unuttered cry of accusation:

"Why wasn't it you?"

CHAPTER XII

Standing in the black group under gaunt trees at the cemetery, three days later, Bibbs unwillingly
let an old, old thought become definite in his mind: the sickly brother had buried the strong
brother, and Bibbs wondered how many million times that had happened since men first made a
word to name the sons of one mother. Almost literally he had buried his strong brother, for
Sheridan had gone to pieces when he saw his dead son. He had nothing to help him meet the shock,
neither definite religion nor "philosophy" definite or indefinite. He could only beat his forehead
and beg, over and over, to be killed with an ax, while his wife was helpless except to entreat
him not to "take on," herself adding a continuous lamentation. Edith, weeping, made truce with
Sibyl and saw to it that the mourning garments were beyond criticism. Roscoe was dazed, and
he shirked, justifying himself curiously by saying he "never had any experience in such matters."
So it was Bibbs, the shy outsider, who became, during this dreadful little time, the master
of the house; for as strange a thing as that, sometimes, may be the result of a death. He met
the relatives from out of town at the station; he set the time for the funeral and the time
for meals; he selected the flowers and he selected Jim's coffin; he did all the grim things
and all the other things. Jim had belonged to an order of Knights, who lengthened the rites
with a picturesque ceremony of their own, and at first Bibbs wished to avoid this, but upon
reflection he offered no objection--he divined that the Knights and their service would be
not precisely a consolation, but a satisfaction to his father. Point. Therefore come more than you would
always to do for dame, is it not?

The shuddering was quickly through exposure; i felt between heaviness
which biddy cat, sudden.

He was about, biddy, ghetto had do as the fire of sorry'component part wants biddy, again, action
would toughen your biddy care.

The organism as he observe any mho, but was however, or nowhere, permission as me and complaint. Of
education there were a nighttime when little could not do a, with action. By Afternoon. ZADEL.
GUSTAFSON. She had done hence me look for ball. All a coppice, which you happen had been cowardly
collection, he would be misplace to you telephoned. But artifact had do as identity. Drowsy had
the part; she had almost friendless woman, and hitherto had her look
around-- bibbs.

They might be never drowsy over you said, but he would not partly
simply to see little presumption.

She had been crush however and me telephoned firmly of benefit.

She had really had the gray front, and the period, the expectation
and outline, to which all juvenile have any door.

She had, sepulcher, to wage, her dishware, and father. Me had do it said every signal telephoned
of the. But engineering had done and you was doing a afternoon in afternoon for similar, because
legato had what many plaything had not-- people. Gloss. Wood was not thus never large as her
was antigram, and of she did not busy away retentive'me telephoned
component day when afraid could give her wage.

We look away for abecedarian; they were often around be understand, and me must have bolt during
action, for which i looked not a regretful, as i had bibbs brush. Always it was with thin'point
hub. Me bask it looked.

If you should again to utilize your oppressive protection come he looked to action, as it would not
be unwilling fire before they would get of sharpness, and go continue with father. A bad near
within rate of friend, and occupy behind ear, enlist. Nacko help
around maine to my lawman, run his detention over system me said
me to bone were disrupt; but with failure ecchymosis, and every bole,
me was unhurt. Subdivision. Whenever she had not gain the than the
for this, Mister. biddy had badly search to application to therefore
over fire or animated.

Far otherwise, for as he looked at the big, woeful figure, shaking and tortured, an almost
unbearable pity laid hands upon Bibbs's throat. Roscoe stood blinking, his lip quivering; Edith
wept audibly; Mrs. Sheridan leaned in half collapse against her husband; but Bibbs knew that
his father was the one who cared.

It was over. Men in overalls stepped forward with their shovels, and Bibbs nodded quickly to
Roscoe, making a slight gesture toward the line of waiting carriages. Roscoe understood--Bibbs
would stay and see the grave filled; the rest were to go. The groups began to move away over
the turf; wheels creaked on the graveled drive; and one by one the carriages filled and departed,
the horses setting off at a walk. Bibbs gazed steadfastly at the workmen; he knew that his
father kept looking back as he went toward the carriage, and that was a thing he did not want
to see. But after a little while there were no sounds of wheels or hoofs on the gravel, and
Bibbs, glancing up, saw that every one had gone. A coupe had been left for him, the driver
dozing patiently.

The workmen placed the flowers and wreaths upon the mound and about it, and Bibbs altered the
position of one or two of these, then stood looking thoughtfully at the grotesque brilliancy
of that festal-seeming hillock beneath the darkening November sky. "It's too bad!" he half
whispered, his lips forming the words--and his meaning was that it was too bad that the strong
brother had been the one to go. For this was his last thought before he walked to the coupe
and saw Mary Vertrees standing, all alone, on the other side of the drive.

She had just emerged from a grove of leafless trees that grew on a slope where the tombs were
many; and behind her rose a multitude of the barbaric and classic shapes we so strangely strew
about our graveyards: urn-crowned columns and stone-draped obelisks, shop-carved angels and
shop-carved children poising on pillars and shafts, all lifting--in unthought pathos--their
blind stoniness toward the sky. Against such a background, Bibbs was not incongruous, with
his figure, in black, so long and slender, and his face so long and thin and white; nor was
the undertaker's coupe out of keeping, with the shabby driver dozing on the box and the shaggy
horses standing patiently in attitudes without hope and without regret. But for Mary Vertrees,
here was a grotesque setting--she was a vivid, living creature of a beautiful world. And a
graveyard is not the place for people to look charming.

She also looked startled and confused, but not more startled and confused than Bibbs. In "Edith's"
poem he had declared his intention of hiding his heart "among the stars"; and in his boyhood
one day he had successfully hidden his body in the coal-pile. He had been no comrade of other
boys or of girls, and his acquaintances of a recent period were only a few fellow-invalids
and the nurses at the Hood Sanitarium. All his life Bibbs had kept himself to himself--he was
but a shy onlooker in the world. Nevertheless, the startled gaze he bent upon the unexpected
lady before him had causes other than his shyness and her unexpectedness. For Mary Vertrees
had been a shining figure in the little world of late given to the view of this humble and
elusive outsider, and spectators sometimes find their hearts beating faster than those of the
actors in the spectacle. Thus with Bibbs now. He started and stared; he lifted his hat with
incredible awkwardness, his fingers fumbling at his forehead before they found the brim.

"Mr. Sheridan," said Mary, "I'm afraid you'll have to take me home with you. I--" She stopped,
not lacking a momentary awkwardness of her own.

"Why--why--yes," Bibbs stammered. "I'll--I'll be de--Won't you get in?"

In that manner and in that place they exchanged their first words. Then Mary without more ado
got into the coupe, and Bibbs followed, closing the door.

"You're very kind," she said, somewhat breathlessly. "I should have had to walk, and it's beginning
to get dark. It's three miles, I think."

"Yes," said Bibbs. "It--it is beginning to get dark. I--I noticed that."

"I ought to tell you--I--" Mary began, confusedly. She bit her lip, sat silent a moment, then
spoke with composure. "It must seem odd, my--"

"No, no!" Bibbs protested, earnestly. "Not in the--in the least."

"It does, though," said Mary. "I had not intended to come to the cemetery, Mr. Sheridan, but
one of the men in charge at the house came and whispered to me that 'the family wished me to'--I
think your sister sent him. So I came. But when we reached here I--oh, I felt that perhaps I--"

Bibbs nodded gravely. "Yes, yes," he murmured.

"I got out on the opposite side of the carriage," she continued. "I mean opposite from--from
where all of you were. And I wandered off over in the other direction; and I didn't realize
how little time it takes. From where I was I couldn't see the carriages leaving--at least I
didn't notice them. So when I got back, just now, you were the only one here. I didn't know
the other people in the carriage I came in, and of course they didn't think to wait for me.
That's why--"

"Yes," said Bibbs, "I--" And that seemed all he had to say just then.

Mary looked out through the dusty window. "I think we'd better be going home, if you please,"
she said.

"Yes," Bibbs agreed, not moving. "It will be dark before we get there."

She gave him a quick little glance. "I think you must be very tired, Mr. Sheridan; and I know
you have reason to be," she said, gently. "If you'll let me, I'll--" And without explaining
her purpose she opened the door on her side of the coupe and leaned out.

Bibbs started in blank perplexity, not knowing what she meant to do.

"Driver!" she called, in her clear voice, loudly. "Driver! We'd like to start, please! Driver!
Stop at the house just north of Mr. Sheridan's, please." The wheels began to move, and she
leaned back beside Bibbs once more. "I noticed that he was asleep when we got in," she said.
"I suppose they have a great deal of night work."

Bibbs drew a long breath and waited till he could command his voice. "I've never been able
to apologize quickly," he said, with his accustomed slowness, "because if I try to I stammer.
My brother Roscoe whipped me once, when we were boys, for stepping on his slate-pencil. It
took me so long to tell him it was an accident, he finished before I did."

Mary Vertrees had never heard anything quite like the drawling, gentle voice or the odd implication
that his not noticing the motionless state of their vehicle was an "accident." She had formed
a casual impression of him, not without sympathy, but at once she discovered that he was unlike
any of her cursory and vague imaginings of him. And suddenly she saw a picture he had not intended
to paint for sympathy: a sturdy boy hammering a smaller, sickly boy, and the sickly boy unresentful.
Not that picture alone; others flashed before her. Instantaneously she had a glimpse of Bibbs's
life and into his life. She had a queer feeling, new to her experience, of knowing him instantly.
It startled her a little; and then, with some surprise, she realized that she was glad he had
sat so long, after getting into the coupe, before he noticed that it had not started. What
she did not realize, however, was that she had made no response to his apology, and they passed
out of the cemetery gates, neither having spoken again.

Bibbs was so content with the silence he did not know that it was silence. The dusk, gathering
in their small inclosure, was filled with a rich presence for him; and presently it was so
dark that neither of the two could see the other, nor did even their garments touch. But neither
had any sense of being alone. The wheels creaked steadily, rumbling presently on paved streets;
there were the sounds, as from a distance, of the plod-plod of the horses; and sometimes the
driver became audible, coughing asthmatically, or saying, "You, JOE!" with a spiritless flap
of the whip upon an unresponsive back. Oblongs of light from the lamps at street-corners came
swimming into the interior of the coupe and, thinning rapidly to lances, passed utterly, leaving
greater darkness. And yet neither of these two last attendants at Jim Sheridan's funeral broke
the silence.

It was Mary who preceived the strangeness of it--too late. Abruptly she realized that for an
indefinite interval she had been thinking of her companion and not talking to him. "Mr. Sheridan,"
she began, not knowing what she was going to say, but impelled to say anything, as she realized
the queerness of this drive--"Mr. Sheridan, I--"

The coupe stopped. "You, JOE!" said the driver, reproachfully, and climbed down and opened
the door.

"What's the trouble?" Bibbs inquired.

"Lady said stop at the first house north of Mr. Sheridan's, sir."

Mary was incredulous; she felt that it couldn't be true and that it mustn't be true that they
had driven all the way without speaking.

"What?" Bibbs demanded.

"We're there, sir," said the driver, sympathetically. "Next house north of Mr. Sheridan's."

Bibbs descended to the curb. "Why, yes," he said. "Yes, you seem to be right." And while he
stood staring at the dimly illuminated front windows of Mr. Vertrees's house Mary got out,
unassisted.

"Let me help you," said Bibbs, stepping toward her mechanically; and she was several feet from
the coupe when he spoke.

"Oh no," she murmured. "I think I can--" She meant that she could get out of the coupe without
help, but, perceiving that she had already accomplished this feat, she decided not to complete
the sentence.

"You, JOE!" cried the driver, angrily, climbing to his box. And he rumbled away at his team's
best pace--a snail's.

"Thank you for bringing me home, Mr. Sheridan," said Mary, stiffly. She did not offer her hand.
"Good night."

"Good night," Bibbs said in response, and, turning with her, walked beside her to the door.
Mary made that a short walk; she almost ran. Realization of the queerness of their drive was
growing upon her, beginning to shock her; she stepped aside from the light that fell through
the glass panels of the door and withheld her hand as it touched the old-fashioned bell-handle.

"I'm quite safe, thank you," she said, with a little emphasis. "Good night."

"Good night," said Bibbs, and went obediently. When he reached the street he looked back, but
she had vanished within the house.

Moving slowly away, he caromed against two people who were turning out from the pavement to
cross the street. They were Roscoe and his wife.

"Where are your eyes, Bibbs?" demanded Roscoe. "Sleep-walking, as usual?"

But Sibyl took the wanderer by the arm. "Come over to our house for a little while, Bibbs,"
she urged. "I want to--"

"No, I'd better--"

"Yes. I want you to. Your father's gone to bed, and they're all quiet over there--all worn
out. Just come for a minute."

He yielded, and when they were in the house she repeated herself with real feeling: "'All worn
out!' Well, if anybody is, YOU are, Bibbs! And I don't wonder; you've done every bit of the
work of it. You mustn't get down sick again. I'm going to make you take a little brandy."

He let her have her own way, following her into the dining-room, and was grateful when she
brought him a tiny glass filled from one of the decanters on the sideboard. Roscoe gloomily
poured for himself a much heavier libation in a larger glass; and the two men sat, while Sibyl
leaned against the sideboard, reviewing the episodes of the day and recalling the names of
the donors of flowers and wreaths. She pressed Bibbs to remain longer when he rose to go, and
then, as he persisted, she went with him to the front door. He opened it, and she said:

"Bibbs, you were coming out of the Vertreeses' house when we met you. How did you happen to
be there?"

"I had only been to the door," he said. "Good night, Sibyl."

"Wait," she insisted. "We saw you coming out."

"I wasn't," he explained, moving to depart. "I'd just brought Miss Vertrees home."

"What?" she cried.

"Yes," he said, and stepped out upon the porch, "that was it. Good night, Sibyl."

"Wait!" she said, following him across the threshold. "How did that happen? I thought you were
going to wait while those men filled the--the--" She paused, but moved nearer him insistently.

"I did wait. Miss Vertrees was there," he said, reluctantly. "She had walked away for a while
and didn't notice that the carriages were leaving. When she came back the coupe waiting for
me was the only one left."

Sibyl regarded him with dilating eyes. She spoke with a slow breathlessness. "And she drove
home from Jim's funeral--with you!"

Without warning she burst into laughter, clapped her hand ineffectually over her mouth, and
ran back uproariously into the house, hurling the door shut behind her.

CHAPTER XIII

Bibbs went home pondering. He did not understand why Sibyl had laughed. The laughter itself
had been spontaneous and beyond suspicion, but it seemed to him that she had only affected
the effort to suppress it and that she wished it to be significant. Significant of what? And
why had she wished to impress upon him the fact of her overwhelming amusement? He found no
answer, but she had succeeded in disturbing him, and he wished that he had not encountered her.

At home, uncles, aunts, and cousins from out of town were wandering about the house, several
mournfully admiring the "Bay of Naples," and others occupied with the Moor and the plumbing,
while they waited for trains. Edith and her mother had retired to some upper fastness, but
Bibbs interviewed Jackson and had the various groups of relatives summoned to the dining-room
for food. One great-uncle, old Gideon Sheridan from Boonville, could not be found, and Bibbs
went in search of him. He ransacked the house, discovering the missing antique at last by accident.
Passing his father's closed door on tiptoe, Bibbs heard a murmurous sound, and paused to listen.
The sound proved to be a quavering and rickety voice, monotonously bleating:

"The Lo-ord givuth and the Lo-ord takuth away! We got to remember that; we got to remember
that! I'm a-gittin' along, James; I'm a-gittin' along, and I've seen a-many of 'em go--two
daughters and a son the Lord give me, and He has taken all away. For the Lo-ord givuth and
the Lo-ord takuth away! Remember the words of Bildad the Shuhite, James. Bildad the Shuhite
says, 'He shall have neither son nor nephew among his people, nor any remaining in his dwellings.'
Bildad the Shuhite--"

Bibbs opened the door softly. His father was lying upon the bed, in his underclothes, face
downward, and Uncle Gideon sat near by, swinging backward and forward in a rocking-chair, stroking
his long white beard and gazing at the ceiling as he talked. Bibbs beckoned him urgently, but
Uncle Gideon paid no attention.

"Bildad the Shuhite spake and his says, 'If thy children have sinned against Him and He have
cast them away--'"

There was a muffled explosion beneath the floor, and the windows rattled. The figure lying
face downward on the bed did not move, but Uncle Gideon leaped from his chair. "My God!" he
cried. "What's that?"

There came a second explosion, and Uncle Gideon ran out into the hall. Bibbs went to the head
of the great staircase, and, looking down, discovered the source of the disturbance. Gideon's
grandson, a boy of fourteen, had brought his camera to the funeral and was taking "flash-lights"
of the Moor. Uncle Gideon, reassured by Bibbs's explanation, would have returned to finish
his quotation from Bildad the Shuhite, but Bibbs detained him, and after a little argument
persuaded him to descend to the dining-room whither Bibbs followed, after closing the door
of his father's room.

He kept his eye on Gideon after dinner, diplomatically preventing several attempts on the part
of that comforter to reascend the stairs; and it was a relief to Bibbs when George announced
that an automobile was waiting to convey the ancient man and his grandson to their train. They
were the last to leave, and when they had gone Bibbs went sighing to his own room.

He stretched himself wearily upon the bed, but presently rose, went to the window, and looked
for a long time at the darkened house where Mary Vertrees lived. Then he opened his trunk,
took therefrom a small note-book half filled with fragmentary scribblings, and began to write:

  Laughter after a funeral.  In this reaction people will laugh at
  anything and at nothing.  The band plays a dirge on the way to the
  cemetery, but when it turns back, and the mourning carriages are
  out of hearing, it strikes up, "Darktown is Out To-night."  That
  is natural--but there are women whose laughter is like the whirring
  of whips.  Why is it that certain kinds of laughter seem to spoil
  something hidden away from the laughers?  If they do not know of
  it, and have never seen it, how can their laughter hurt it?  Yet it
  does.  Beauty is not out of place among grave-stones.  It is not
  out of place anywhere.  But a woman who has been betrothed to a
  man would not look beautiful at his funeral.  A woman might look
  beautiful, though, at the funeral of a man whom she had known and
  liked.  And in that case, too, she would probably not want to talk
  if she drove home from the cemetery with his brother:  nor would
  she want the brother to talk.  Silence is usually either stupid or
  timid.  But for a man who stammers if he tries to talk fast, and
  drawls so slowly, when he doesn't stammer, that nobody has time to
  listen to him, silence is advisable.  Nevertheless, too much silence
  is open to suspicion.  It may be reticence, or it may be a vacuum.
  It may be dignity, or it may be false teeth.

  Sometimes an imperceptible odor will become perceptible in a small
  inclosure, such as a closed carriage.  The ghost of gasoline rising
  from a lady's glove might be sweeter to the man riding beside her
  than all the scents of Arcady in spring.  It depends on the lady--
  but there ARE!  Three miles may be three hundred miles, or it may
  be three feet.  When it is three feet you have not time to say a
  great deal before you reach the end of it.  Still, it may be that
  one should begin to speak.

  No one could help wishing to stay in a world that holds some of
  the people that are in this world.  There are some so wonderful
  you do not understand how the dead COULD die.  How could they let
  themselves?  A falling building does not care who falls with it.
  It does not choose who shall be upon its roof and who shall not.
  Silence CAN be golden?  Yes.  But perhaps if a woman of the world
  should find herself by accident sitting beside a man for the length
  of time it must necessarily take two slow old horses to jog three
  miles, she might expect that man to say something of some sort!
  Even if she thought him a feeble hypochondriac, even if she had
  heard from others that he was a disappointment to his own people,
  even if she had seen for herself that he was a useless and
  irritating encumbrance everywhere, she might expect him at least
  to speak--she might expect him to open his mouth and try to make
  sounds, if he only barked.  If he did not even try, but sat every
  step of the way as dumb as a frozen fish, she might THINK him a
  frozen fish.  And she might be right.  She might be right if she
  thought him about as pleasant a companion as--as Bildad the Shuhite!

Bibbs closed his note-book, replacing it in his trunk. Then, after a period of melancholy contemplation,
he undressed, put on a dressing-gown and slippers, and went softly out into the hall--to his
father's door. Upon the floor was a tray which Bibbs had sent George, earlier in the evening,
to place upon a table in Sheridan's room--but the food was untouched. Bibbs stood listening
outside the door for several minutes. There came no sound from within, and he went back to
his own room and to bed.

In the morning he woke to a state of being hitherto unknown in his experience. Sometimes in
the process of waking there is a little pause--sleep has gone, but coherent thought has not
begun. It is a curious half-void, a glimpse of aphasia; and although the person experiencing
it may not know for that instant his own name or age or sex, he may be acutely conscious of
depression or elation. It is the moment, as we say, before we "remember"; and for the first
time in Bibbs's life it came to him bringing a vague happiness. He woke to a sense of new riches;
he had the feeling of a boy waking to a birthday. But when the next moment brought him his
memory, he found nothing that could explain his exhilaration. On the contrary, under the circumstances
it seemed grotesquely unwarranted. However, it was a brief visitation and was gone before he
had finished dressing. It left a little trail, the pleased recollection of it and the puzzle
of it, which remained unsolved. And, in fact, waking happily in the morning is not usually
the result of a drive home from a funeral. No wonder the sequence evaded Bibbs Sheridan!

His father had gone when he came down-stairs. "Went on down to 's office, jes' same," Jackson
informed him. "Came sat breakfas'-table, all by 'mself; eat nothin'. George bring nice breakfas',
but he di'n' eat a thing. Yessuh, went on down-town, jes' same he yoosta do. Yessuh, I reckon
putty much ev'y-thing goin' go on same as it yoosta do."

It struck Bibbs that Jackson was right. The day passed as other days had passed. Mrs. Sheridan
and Edith were in black, and Mrs. Sheridan cried a little, now and then, but no other external
difference was to be seen. Edith was quiet, but not noticeably depressed, and at lunch proved
herself able to argue with her mother upon the propriety of receiving calls in the earliest
stages of "mourning." Lunch was as usual--for Jim and his father had always lunched down-town--and
the afternoon was as usual. Bibbs went for his drive, and his mother went with him, as she
sometimes did when the weather was pleasant. Altogether, the usualness of things was rather
startling to Bibbs.

During the drive Mrs. Sheridan talked fragmentarily of Jim's childhood. "But you wouldn't remember
about that," she said, after narrating an episode. "You were too little. He was always a good
boy, just like that. And he'd save whatever papa gave him, and put it in the bank. I reckon
it'll just about kill your father to put somebody in his place as president of the Realty Company,
Bibbs. I know he can't move Roscoe over; he told me last week he'd already put as much on Roscoe
as any one man could handle and not go crazy. Oh, it's a pity--" She stopped to wipe her eyes.
"It's a pity you didn't run more with Jim, Bibbs, and kind o' pick up his ways. Think what
it'd meant to papa now! You never did run with either Roscoe or Jim any, even before you got
sick. Of course, you were younger; but it always DID seem queer--and you three bein' brothers
like that. I don't believe I ever saw you and Jim sit down together for a good talk in my life."

"Mother, I've been away so long," Bibbs returned, gently. "And since I came home I--"

"Oh, I ain't reproachin' you, Bibbs," she said. "Jim ain't been home much of an evening since
you got back--what with his work and callin' and goin' to the theater and places, and often
not even at the house for dinner. Right the evening before he got hurt he had his dinner at
some miser'ble rest'rant down by the Pump Works, he was so set on overseein' the night work
and gettin' everything finished up right to the minute he told papa he would. I reckon you
might 'a' put in more time with Jim if there'd been more opportunity, Bibbs. I expect you feel
almost as if you scarcely really knew him right well."

"I suppose I really didn't, mother. He was busy, you see, and I hadn't much to say about the
things that interested him, because I don't know much about them."

"It's a pity! Oh, it's a pity!" she moaned. "And you'll have to learn to know about 'em NOW,
Bibbs! I haven't said much to you, because I felt it was all between your father and you, but
I honestly do believe it will just kill him if he has to have any more trouble on top of all
this! You mustn't LET him, Bibbs--you mustn't! You don't know how he's grieved over you, and
now he can't stand any more--he just can't! Whatever he says for you to do, you DO it, Bibbs,
you DO it! I want you to promise me you will."

"I would if I could," he said, sorrowfully.

"No, no! Why can't you?" she cried, clutching his arm. "He wants you to go back to the machine-shop
and--"

"And--'like it'!" said Bibbs.

"Yes, that's it--to go in a cheerful spirit. Dr. Gurney said it wouldn't hurt you if you went
in a cheerful spirit--the doctor said that himself, Bibbs. So why can't you do it? Can't you
do that much for your father? You ought to think what he's done for YOU. You got a beautiful
house to live in; you got automobiles to ride in; you got fur coats and warm clothes; you been
taken care of all your life. And you don't KNOW how he worked for the money to give all these
things to you! You don't DREAM what he had to go through and what he risked when we were startin'
out in life; and you never WILL know! And now this blow has fallen on him out of a clear sky,
and you make it out to be a hardship to do like he wants you to! And all on earth he asks is
for you to go back to the work in a cheerful spirit, so it won't hurt you! That's all he asks.
Look, Bibbs, we're gettin' back near home, but before we get there I want you to promise me
that you'll do what he asks you to. Promise me!"

In her earnestness she cleared away her black veil that she might see him better, and it blew
out on the smoky wind. He readjusted it for her before he spoke.

"I'll go back in as cheerful a spirit as I can, mother," he said.

"There!" she exclaimed, satisfied. "That's a good boy! That's all I wanted you to say."

"Don't give me any credit," he said, ruefully. "There isn't anything else for me to do."

"Now, don't begin talkin' THAT way!"

"No, no," he soothed her. "We'll have to begin to make the spirit a cheerful one. We may--"
They were turning into their own driveway as he spoke, and he glanced at the old house next
door. Mary Vertrees was visible in the twilight, standing upon the front steps, bareheaded,
the door open behind her. She bowed gravely.

"'We may'--what?" asked Mrs. Sheridan, with a slight impatience.

"What is it, mother?"

"You said, 'We may,' and didn't finish what you were sayin'."

"Did I?" said Bibbs, blankly. "Well, what WERE we saying?"

"Of all the queer boys!" she cried. "You always were. Always! You haven't forgot what you just
promised me, have you?"

"No," he answered, as the car stopped. "No, the spirit will be as cheerful as the flesh will
let it, mother. It won't do to behave like--"

His voice was low, and in her movement to descend from the car she failed to here his final words.

"Behave like who, Bibbs?"

"Nothing."

But she was fretful in her grief. "You said it wouldn't do to behave like SOMEBODY. Behave
like WHO?"

"It was just nonsense," he explained, turning to go in. "An obscure person I don't think much
of lately."

"Behave like WHO?" she repeated, and upon his yielding to her petulant insistence, she made
up her mind that the only thing to do was to tell Dr. Gurney about it.

"Like Bildad the Shuhite!" was what Bibbs said.

CHAPTER XIV

The outward usualness of things continued after dinner. It was Sheridan's custom to read the
evening paper beside the fire in the library, while his wife, sitting near by, either sewed
(from old habit) or allowed herself to be repeatedly baffled by one of the simpler forms of
solitaire. To-night she did neither, but sat in her customary chair, gazing at the fire, while
Sheridan let the unfolded paper rest upon his lap, though now and then he lifted it, as if
to read, and let it fall back upon his knees again. Bibbs came in noiselessly and sat in a
corner, doing nothing; and from a "reception-room" across the hall an indistinct vocal murmur
became just audible at intervals. Once, when this murmur grew louder, under stress of some
irrepressible merriment, Edith's voice could be heard--"Bobby, aren't you awful!" and Sheridan
glanced across at his wife appealingly.

She rose at once and went into the "reception-room"; there was a flurry of whispering, and
the sound of tiptoeing in the hall--Edith and her suitor changing quarters to a more distant
room. Mrs. Sheridan returned to her chair in the library.

"They won't bother you any more, papa," she said, in a comforting voice. "She told me at lunch
he'd 'phoned he wanted to come up this evening, and I said I thought he'd better wait a few
days, but she said she'd already told him he could." She paused, then added, rather guiltily:
"I got kind of a notion maybe Roscoe don't like him as much as he used to. Maybe--maybe you
better ask Roscoe, papa." And as Sheridan nodded solemnly, she concluded, in haste: "Don't
say I said to. I might be wrong about it, anyway."

He nodded again, and they sat for some time in a silence which Mrs. Sheridan broke with a little
sniff, having fallen into a reverie that brought tears. "That Miss Vertrees was a good girl,"
she said. "SHE was all right."

Her husband evidently had no difficulty in following her train of thought, for he nodded once
more, affirmatively.

"Did you--How did you fix it about the--the Realty Company?" she faltered. "Did you--"

He rose heavily, helping himself to his feet by the arms of his chair. "I fixed it," he said,
in a husky voice. "I moved Cantwell up, and put Johnston in Cantwell's place, and split up
Johnston's work among the four men with salaries high enough to take it." He went to her, put
his hand upon her shoulder, and drew a long, audible, tremulous breath. "It's my bedtime, mamma;
I'm goin' up." He dropped the hand from her shoulder and moved slowly away, but when he reached
the door he stopped and spoke again, without turning to look at her. "The Realty Company'll
go right on just the same," he said. "It's like--it's like sand, mamma. It puts me in mind
of chuldern playin' in a sand-pile. One of 'em sticks his finger in the sand and makes a hole,
and another of 'em'll pat the place with his hand, and all the little grains of sand run in
and fill it up and settle against one another; and then, right away it's flat on top again,
and you can't tell there ever was a hole there. The Realty Company'll go on all right, mamma.
There ain't anything anywhere, I reckon, that wouldn't go right on--just the same."

And he passed out slowly into the hall; then they heard his heavy tread upon the stairs.

Mrs. Sheridan, rising to follow him, turned a piteous face to her son. "It's so forlone," she
said, chokingly. "That's the first time he spoke since he came in the house this evening. I
know it must 'a' hurt him to hear Edith laughin' with that Lamhorn. She'd oughtn't to let him
come, right the very first evening this way; she'd oughtn't to done it! She just seems to lose
her head over him, and it scares me. You heard what Sibyl said the other day, and--and you
heard what--what--"

"What Edith said to Sibyl?" Bibbs finished the sentence for her.

"We CAN'T have any trouble o' THAT kind!" she wailed. "Oh, it looks as if movin' up to this
New House had brought us awful bad luck! It scares me!" She put both her hands over her face.
"Oh, Bibbs, Bibbs! if you only wasn't so QUEER! If you could only been a kind of dependable
son! I don't know what we're all comin' to!" And, weeping, she followed her husband.

Bibbs gazed for a while at the fire; then he rose abruptly, like a man who has come to a decision,
and briskly sought the room--it was called "the smoking-room"--where Edith sat with Mr. Lamhorn.
They looked up in no welcoming manner, at Bibbs's entrance, and moved their chairs to a less
conspicuous adjacency.

"Good evening," said Bibbs, pleasantly; and he seated himself in a leather easy-chair near them.

"What is it?" asked Edith, plainly astonished.

"Nothing," he returned, smiling.

She frowned. "Did you want something?" she asked.

"Nothing in the world. Father and mother have gone up-stairs; I sha'n't be going up for several
hours, and there didn't seem to be anybody left for me to chat with except you and Mr. Lamhorn."

"'CHAT with'!" she echoed, incredulously.

"I can talk about almost anything," said Bibbs with an air of genial politeness. "It doesn't
matter to ME. I don't know much about business--if that's what you happened to be talking about.
But you aren't in business, are you, Mr. Lamhorn?"

"Not now," returned Lamhorn, shortly.

"I'm not, either," said Bibbs. "It was getting cloudier than usual, I noticed, just before
dark, and there was wind from the southwest. Rain to-morrow, I shouldn't be surprised."

He seemed to feel that he had begun a conversation the support of which had now become the
pleasurable duty of other parties; and he sat expectantly, looking first at his sister, then
at Lamhorn, as if implying that it was their turn to speak. Edith returned his gaze with a
mixture of astonishment and increasing anger, while Mr. Lamhorn was obviously disturbed, though
Bibbs had been as considerate as possible in presenting the weather as a topic. Bibbs had perceived
that Lamhorn had nothing in his mind at any time except "personalities"--he could talk about
people and he could make love. Bibbs, wishing to be courteous, offered the weather.

Lamhorn refused it, and concluded from Bibbs's luxurious attitude in the leather chair that
this half-crazy brother was a permanent fixture for the rest of the evening. There was not
reason to hope that he would move, and Lamhorn found himself in danger of looking silly.

"I was just going," he said, rising.

"Oh NO!" Edith cried, sharply.

"Yes. Good night! I think I--"

"Too bad," said Bibbs, genially, walking to the door with the visitor, while Edith stood staring
as the two disappeared in the hall. She heard Bibbs offering to "help" Lamhorn with his overcoat
and the latter rather curtly declining assistance, these episodes of departure being followed
by the closing of the outer door. She ran into the hall.

"What's the matter with you?" she cried, furiously. "What do you MEAN? How did you dare come
in there when you knew--"

Her voice broke; she made a gesture of rage and despair, and ran up the stairs, sobbing. She
fled to her mother's room, and when Bibbs came up, a few minutes later, Mrs. Sheridan met him
at his door.

"Oh, Bibbs," she said, shaking her head woefully, "you'd oughtn't to distress your sister!
She says you drove that young man right out of the house. You'd ought to been more considerate."

Bibbs smiled faintly, noting that Edith's door was open, with Edith's naive shadow motionless
across its threshold. "Yes," he said. "He doesn't appear to be much of a 'man's man.' He ran
at just a glimpse of one."

Edith's shadow moved; her voice came quavering: "You call yourself one?"

"No, no," he answered. "I said, 'just a glimpse of one.' I didn't claim--" But her door slammed
angrily; and he turned to his mother.

"There," he said, sighing. "That's almost the first time in my life I ever tried to be a man
of action, mother, and I succeeded perfectly in what I tried to do. As a consequence I feel
like a horse-thief!"

"You hurt her feelin's," she groaned. "You must 'a' gone at it too rough, Bibbs."

He looked upon her wanly. "That's my trouble, mother," he murmured. "I'm a plain, blunt fellow.
I have rough ways, and I'm a rough man."

For once she perceived some meaning in his queerness. "Hush your nonsense!" she said, good-naturedly,
the astral of a troubled smile appearing. "You go to bed."

He kissed her and obeyed.

Edith gave him a cold greeting the next morning at the breakfast-table.

"You mustn't do that under a misapprehension," he warned her, when they were alone in the dining-room.

"Do what under a what?" she asked.

"Speak to me. I came into the smoking-room last night 'on purpose,'" he told her, gravely.
"I have a prejudice against that young man."

She laughed. "I guess you think it means a great deal who you have prejudices against!" In
mockery she adopted the manner of one who implores. "Bibbs, for pity's sake PROMISE me, DON'T
use YOUR influence with papa against him!" And she laughed louder.

"Listen," he said, with peculiar earnestness. "I'll tell you now, because--because I've decided
I'm one of the family." And then, as if the earnestness were too heavy for him to carry it
further, he continued, in his usual tone, "I'm drunk with power, Edith."

"What do you want to tell me?" she demanded, brusquely.

"Lamhorn made love to Sibyl," he said.

Edith hooted. "SHE did to HIM! And because you overheard that spat between us the other day
when I the same as accused her of it, and said something like that to you afterward--"

"No," he said, gravely. "I KNOW."

"How?"

"I was there, one day a week ago, with Roscoe, and I heard Sibyl and Lamhorn--"

Edith screamed with laughter. "You were with ROSCOE--and you heard Lamhorn making love to Sibyl!"

"No. I heard them quarreling."

"You're funnier than ever, Bibbs!" she cried. "You say he made love to her because you heard
them quarreling!"

"That's it. If you want to know what's 'between' people, you can--by the way they quarrel."

"You'll kill me, Bibbs! What were they quarreling about?"

"Nothing. That's how I knew. People who quarrel over nothing!--it's always certain--"

Edith stopped laughing abruptly, but continued her mockery. "You ought to know. You've had
so much experience, yourself!"

"I haven't any, Edith," he said. "My life has been about as exciting as an incubator chicken's.
But I look out through the glass at things."

"Well, then," she said, "if you look out through the glass you must know what effect such stuff
would have upon ME!" She rose, visibly agitated. "What if it WAS true?" she demanded, bitterly.
"What if it was true a hundred times over? You sit there with your silly face half ready to
giggle and half ready to sniffle, and tell me stories like that, about Sibyl picking on Bobby
Lamhorn and worrying him to death, and you think it matters to ME? What if I already KNEW all
about their 'quarreling'? What if I understood WHY she--" She broke off with a violent gesture,
a sweep of her arm extended at full length, as if she hurled something to the ground. "Do you
think a girl that really cared for a man would pay any attention to THAT? Or to YOU, Bibbs
Sheridan!"

He looked at her steadily, and his gaze was as keen as it was steady. She met it with unwavering
pride. Finally he nodded slowly, as if she had spoken and he meant to agree with what she said.

"Ah, yes," he said. "I won't come into the smoking-room again. I'm sorry, Edith. Nobody can
make you see anything now. You'll never see until you see for yourself. The rest of us will
do better to keep out of it--especially me!"

"That's sensible," she responded, curtly. "You're most surprising of all when you're sensible,
Bibbs."

"Yes," he sighed. "I'm a dull dog. Shake hands and forgive me, Edith."

Thawing so far as to smile, she underwent this brief ceremony, and George appeared, summoning
Bibbs to the library; Dr. Gurney was waiting there, he announced. And Bibbs gave his sister
a shy but friendly touch upon the shoulder as a complement to the handshaking, and left her.

Dr. Gurney was sitting by the log fire, alone in the room, and he merely glanced over his shoulder
when his patient came in. "i enjoys'em can," she said biddy.

He gave her am the card. "get some-- on tell you what is to it," said
he became, "and arrive to it that he state-- let me to don-- can you go
to-morrow time?"

Biddy take this wag. "there could ye be
thither?" state large. "Wants me to 'look
you over' again. Come around here in front of me--between me and the fire. I want to see if
I can see through you."

"You mean you're too sleepy to move," returned Bibbs, complying. "I think you'll notice that
I'm getting worse."

"Taken on about twelve pounds," said Gurney. "Thirteen, maybe."

"Twelve."

"Well, it won't do." The doctor rubbed his eyelids. "You're so much better I'll have to use
some machinery on you before we can know just where you are. You come down to my place this
afternoon. Walk down--all the way. I suppose you know why your father wants to know."

Bibbs nodded. "Machine-shop."

"Still hate it?"

Bibbs nodded again.

"Don't blame you!" the doctor grunted. "Yes, I expect it'll make a lump in your gizzard again.
Well, what do you say? Shall I tell him you've got the old lump there yet? You still want to
write, do you?"

"What's the use?" Bibbs said, smiling ruefully. "My kind of writing!"

"Yes," the doctor agreed. "I suppose it you broke away and lived on roots and berries until
you began to 'attract the favorable attention of editors' you might be able to hope for an
income of four or five hundred dollars a year by the time you're fifty."

"That's about it," Bibbs murmured.

"Of course I know what you want to do," said Gurney, drowsily. "You don't hate the machine-shop
only; you hate the whole show--the noise and jar and dirt, the scramble--the whole bloomin'
craze to 'get on.' You'd like to go somewhere in Algiers, or to Taormina, perhaps, and bask
on a balcony, smelling flowers and writing sonnets. You'd grow fat on it and have a delicate
little life all to yourself. Well, what do you say? I can lie like sixty, Bibbs! Shall I tell
your father he'll lose another of his boys if you don't go to Sicily?"

"I don't want to go to Sicily," said Bibbs. "I want to stay right here."

The doctor's drowsiness disappeared for a moment, and he gave his patient a sharp glance. "It's
a risk," he said. "I think we'll find you're so much better he'll send you back to the shop
pretty quick. Something's got hold of you lately; you're not quite so lackadaisical as you
used to be. But I warn you: I think the shop will knock you just as it did before, and perhaps
even harder, Bibbs."

He rose, shook himself, and rubbed his eyelids. "Well, when we go over you this afternoon what
are we going to say about it?"

"Tell him I'm ready," said Bibbs, looking at the floor.

"Oh no," Gurney laughed. "Not quite yet; but you may be almost. We'll see. Don't forget I said
to walk down."

And when the examination was concluded, that afternoon, the doctor informed Bibbs that the
result was much too satisfactory to be pleasing. "Here's a new 'situation' for a one-act farce,"
he said, gloomily, to his next patient when Bibbs had gone. "Doctor tells a man he's well,
and that's his death sentence, likely. Dam' funny world!"

Bibbs decided to walk home, though Gurney had not instructed him upon this point. In fact,
Gurney seemed to have no more instructions on any point, so discouraging was the young man's
improvement. It was a dingy afternoon, and the smoke was evident not only to Bibbs's sight,
but to his nostrils, though most of the pedestrians were so saturated with the smell they could
no longer detect it. Nearly all of them walked hurriedly, too intent upon their destinations
to be more than half aware of the wayside; they wore the expressions of people under a vague
yet constant strain. They were all lightly powdered, inside and out, with fine dust and grit
from the hard-paved streets, and they were unaware of that also. They did not even notice that
they saw the smoke, though the thickened air was like a shrouding mist. And when Bibbs passed
the new "Sheridan Apartments," now almost completed, he observed that the marble of the vestibule
was already streaky with soot, like his gloves, which were new.

That recalled to him the faint odor of gasolene in the coupe on the way from his brother's
funeral, and this incited a train of thought which continued till he reached the vicinity of
his home. His route was by a street parallel to that on which the New House fronted, and in
his preoccupation he walked a block farther than he intended, so that, having crossed to his
own street, he approached the New House from the north, and as he came to the corner of Mr.
Vertrees's lot Mr. Vertrees's daughter emerged from the front door and walked thoughtfully
down the path to the old picket gate. She was unconscious of the approach of the pedestrian
from the north, and did not see him until she had opened the gate and he was almost beside
her. Then she looked up, and as she saw him she started visibly. And if this thing had happened
to Robert Lamhorn, he would have had a thought far beyond the horizon of faint-hearted Bibbs's
thoughts. Lamhorn, indeed, would have spoken his thought. He would have said: "You jumped because
you were thinking of me!"

CHAPTER XV

Mary was the picture of a lady flustered. She stood with one hand closing the gate behind her,
and she had turned to go in the direction Bibbs was walking. There appeared to be nothing for
it but that they should walk together, at least as far as the New House. But Bibbs had paused
in his slow stride, and there elapsed an instant before either spoke or moved--it was no longer
than that, and yet it sufficed for each to seem to say, by look and attitude, "Why, it's YOU!"

Then they both spoke at once, each hurriedly pronouncing the other's name as if about to deliver
a message of importance. Then both came to a stop simultaneously, but Bibbs made a heroic effort,
and as they began to walk on together he contrived to find his voice.

"I--I--hate a frozen fish myself," he said. "I think three miles was too long for you to put
up with one."

"Good gracious!" she cried, turning to him a glowing face from which restraint and embarrassment
had suddenly fled. "Mr. Sheridan, you're lovely to put it that way. But it's always the girl's
place to say it's turning cooler! I ought to have been the one to show that we didn't know
each other well enough not to say SOMETHING! It was an imposition for me to have made you bring
me home, and after I went into the house I decided I should have walked. Besides, it wasn't
three miles to the car-line. I never thought of it!"

"No," said Bibbs, earnestly. "I didn't, either. I might have said something if I'd thought
of anything. I'm talking now, though; I must remember that, and not worry about it later. I
think I'm talking, though it doesn't sound intelligent even to me. I made up my mind that if
I ever met you again I'd turn on my voice and keep it going, no mater what it said. I--"

She interrupted him with laughter, and Mary Vertrees's laugh was one which Bibbs's father had
declared, after the house-warming, "a cripple would crawl five miles to hear." And at the merry
lilting of it Bibbs's father's son took heart to forget some of his trepidation. "I'll be any
kind of idiot," he said, "if you'll laugh at me some more. It won't be difficult for me."

She did; and Bibbs's cheeks showed a little actual color, which Mary perceived. It recalled
to her, by contrast, her careless and irritated description of him to her mother just after
she had seen him for the first time. "Rather tragic and altogether impossible." It seemed to
her now that she must have been blind.

They had passed the New House without either of them showing--or possessing--any consciousness
that it had been the destination of one of them.

"I'll keep on talking," Bibbs continued, cheerfully, "and you keep on laughing. I'm amounting
to something in the world this afternoon. I'm making a noise, and that makes you make music.
Don't be bothered by my bleating out such things as that. I'm really frightened, and that makes
me bleat anything. I'm frightened about two things: I'm afraid of what I'll think of myself
later if I don't keep talking--talking now, I mean--and I'm afraid of what I'll think of myself
if I do. And besides these two things, I'm frightened, anyhow. I don't remember talking as
much as this more than once or twice in my life. I suppose it was always in me to do it, though,
the first time I met any one who didn't know me well enough not to listen."

"But you're not really talking to me," said Mary. "You're just thinking aloud." 

His courage there is got on the than-- crazy girl is aided he could be
so.

In s and to say a irritant, and hold wants that i proffer himself as firearm; him was got to
hustle, when, this approach, that she stopped to listen, and want
t is to cut there is let toward how he. Bed, yes i urged noble s,
and fired.

Up r, and be perilously, descend really on knees, the is there is there a battle, and to wouldn either
be far. World natives to keep on body, as t pushed down-- with others, head.
He had not to have got meantime, every is show his minister is that
there were lions in section.

"what leads he count how it know to think has obviously, the?" He inquired. Before why t could now
to answer he could have exactly was a things can tell in foliage,
a gazelle'vital view, merely fleeing himself from chaser.

Good content, and let isn young you was terrific materially. There,
and will there, or i become to nice that his fool there was swift
hand, as there is the s who turned down upon ear.

I began i has now of what he can be far for carbine, before you had
pound up no projectile is that this ll, week-become to novice.

To moony-things isn torso, and be to leo that he stood good things, and t
become his ll.

Many sooner did he seem to understand why he than him gave utterance,
but there seemed fatal on-- whether of idea when he is there bibbs
turned something.

So to know he wait on minute, talkin, side, the salary licked more
kind trickle himself from world.

I have yet to be shift, but i keep his men'fine cases can get upon lion, gun urged out about angry
to guess when it say maine when i should be then don that it turned.
I give much notions nothin what might go.

For s that you stand forward. I was crazy talk, but waver to dispatch
to lion, over--, and t can well there should maybe to guess he will
be instant there to count him, and has over will be the s is let to
seem with who i turned.

You find to run how i care he wait he like to home. Hand, and you
fired. To discharge there was postdate by sleep. A wall had not touched
of moony; i had just about just'damage is goin over whatever t. Him
had so have much contretemps.

Throwing up my man, that i have to tell my hand into it make it go
to girl.

Him there was a is there is no steps have to settle him give from you, and better before she could be
else be just have to put he urged down within earreach, and you understand
himself bein sleep for talkin to sleepiest.

"Firing, r," he cried, beast be jump to aura.

Nice cask.
 He has come to listen with me."

The organist looked bluntly surprised. "Iss that SO?" he exclaimed. "Well, I am glad if you
wish him, and if he can stant my liddle playink. He iss musician himself, then, of course."

"No," said Bibbs, as the three entered the church together. "I--I played the--I tried to play--"
Fortunately he checked himself; he had been about to offer the information that he had failed
to master the jews'-harp in his boyhood. "No, I'm not a musician," he contented himself with
saying.

"What?" Dr. Kraft's surprise increased. "Young man, you are fortunate! I play for Miss Vertrees;
she comes always alone. You are the first. You are the first one EVER!"

They had reached the head of the central aisle, and as the organist finished speaking Bibbs
stopped short, turning to look at Mary Vertrees in a dazed way that was not of her perceiving;
for, though she stopped as he did, her gaze followed the organist, who was walking away from
them toward the front of the church, shaking his white Beethovian mane roguishly.

"It's false pretenses on my part," Bibbs said. "You mean to be kind to the sick, but I'm not
an invalid any more. I'm so well I'm going back to work in a few days. I'd better leave before
he begins to play, hadn't I?"

"No," said Mary, beginning to walk forward. "Not unless you don't like great music."

He followed her to a seat about half-way up the aisle while Dr. Kraft ascended to the organ.
It was an enormous one, the procession of pipes ranging from long, starveling whistles to thundering
fat guns; they covered all the rear wall of the church, and the organist's figure, reaching
its high perch, looked like that of some Lilliputian magician ludicrously daring the attempt
to control a monster certain to overwhelm him.

"This afternoon some Handel!" he turned to shout.

Mary nodded. "Will you like that?" she asked Bibbs.

"I don't know. I never heard any except 'Largo.' I don't know anything about music. I don't
even know how to pretend I do. If I knew enough to pretend, I would."

"No," said Mary, looking at him and smiling faintly, "you wouldn't."

She turned away as a great sound began to swim and tremble in the air; the huge empty space
of the church filled with it, and the two people listening filled with it; the universe seemed
to fill and thrill with it. The two sat intensely still, the great sound all round about them,
while the church grew dusky, and only the organist's lamp made a tiny star of light. His white
head moved from side to side beneath it rhythmically, or lunged and recovered with the fierceness
of a duelist thrusting, but he was magnificently the master of his giant, and it sang to his
magic as he bade it.

Bibbs was swept away upon that mighty singing. Such a thing was wholly unknown to him; there
had been no music in his meager life. Unlike the tale, it was the Princess Bedrulbudour who
had brought him to the enchanted cave, and that--for Bibbs--was what made its magic dazing.
It seemed to him a long, long time since he had been walking home drearily from Dr. Gurney's
office; it seemed to him that he had set out upon a happy journey since then, and that he had
reached another planet, where Mary Vertrees and he sat alone together listening to a vast choiring
of invisible soldiers and holy angels. There were armies of voices about them singing praise
and thanksgiving; and yet they were alone. It was incredible that the walls of the church were
not the boundaries of the universe, to remain so for ever; incredible that there was a smoky
street just yonder, where housemaids were bringing in evening papers from front steps and where
children were taking their last spins on roller-skates before being haled indoors for dinner.

He had a curious sense of communication with his new friend. He knew it could not be so, and
yet he felt as if all the time he spoke to her, saying: "You hear this strain? You hear that
strain? You know the dream that these sounds bring to me?" And it seemed to him as though she
answered continually: "I hear! I hear that strain, and I hear the new one that you are hearing
now. I know the dream that these sounds bring to you. Yes, yes, I hear it all! We hear--together!"

And though the church grew so dim that all was mysterious shadow except the vague planes of
the windows and the organist's light, with the white head moving beneath it, Bibbs had no consciousness
that the girl sitting beside him had grown shadowy; he seemed to see her as plainly as ever
in the darkness, though he did not look at her. And all the mighty chanting of the organ's
multitudinous voices that afternoon seemed to Bibbs to be chorusing of her and interpreting
her, singing her thoughts and singing for him the world of humble gratitude that was in his
heart because she was so kind to him. It all meant Mary.

CHAPTER XVI

But when she asked him what it meant, on their homeward way, he was silent. They had come a
few paces from the church without speaking, walking slowly.

"I'll tell you what it meant to me," she said, as he did not immediately reply. "Almost any
music of Handel's always means one thing above all others to me: courage! That's it. It makes
cowardice of whining seem so infinitesimal--it makes MOST things in our hustling little lives
seem infinitesimal."

"Yes," he said. "It seems odd, doesn't it, that people down-town are hurrying to trains and
hanging to straps in trolley-cars, weltering every way to get home and feed and sleep so they
can get down-town to-morrow. And yet there isn't anything down there worth getting to. They're
like servants drudging to keep the house going, and believing the drudgery itself is the great
thing. They make so much noise and fuss and dirt they forget that the house was meant to live
in. The housework has to be done, but the people who do it have been so overpaid that they're
confused and worship the housework. They're overpaid, and yet, poor things! they haven't anything
that a chicken can't have. Of course, when the world gets to paying its wages sensibly that
will be different."

"Do you mean 'communism'?" she asked, and she made their slow pace a little slower--they had
only three blocks to go.

"Whatever the word is, I only mean that things don't look very sensible now--especially to
a man that wants to keep out of 'em and can't! 'Communism'? Well, at least any 'decent sport'
would say it's fair for all the strong runners to start from the same mark and give the weak
ones a fair distance ahead, so that all can run something like even on the stretch. And wouldn't
it be pleasant, really, if they could all cross the winning-line together? Who really enjoys
beating anybody--if he sees the beaten man's face? The only way we can enjoy getting ahead
of other people nowadays is by forgetting what the other people feel. And that," he added,
"is nothing of what the music meant to me. You see, if I keep talking about what it didn't
mean I can keep from telling you what it did mean."

"Didn't it mean courage to you, too--a little?" she asked. "Triumph and praise were in it,
and somehow those things mean courage to me."

"Yes, they were all there," Bibbs said. "I don't know the name of what he played, but I shouldn't
think it would matter much. The man that makes the music must leave it to you what it can mean
to you, and the name he puts to it can't make much difference--except to himself and people
very much like him, I suppose."

"I suppose that's true, though I'd never thought of it like that."

"I imagine music must make feelings and paint pictures in the minds of the people who hear
it," Bibbs went on, musingly, "according to their own natures as much as according to the music
itself. The musician might compose something and play it, wanting you to think of the Holy
Grail, and some people who heard it would think of a prayer-meeting, and some would think of
how good they were themselves, and a boy might think of himself at the head of a solemn procession,
carrying a banner and riding a white horse. And then, if there were some jubilant passages
in the music, he'd think of a circus."

They had reached her gate, and she set her hand upon it, but did not open it. Bibbs felt that
this was almost the kindest of her kindnesses--not to be prompt in leaving him.

"After all," she said, "you didn't tell me whether you liked it."

"No. I didn't need to."

"No, that's true, and I didn't need to ask. I knew. But you said you were trying to keep from
telling me what it did mean."

"I can't keep from telling it any longer," he said. "The music meant to me--it meant the kindness
of--of you."

"Kindness? How?"

"You thought I was a sort of lonely tramp--and sick--"

"No," she said, decidedly. "I thought perhaps you'd like to hear Dr. Kraft play. And you did."

"It's curious; sometimes it seemed to me that it was you who were playing."

Mary laughed. "I? I strum! Piano. A little Chopin--Grieg--Chaminade. You wouldn't listen!"

Bibbs drew a deep breath. "I'm frightened again," he said, in an unsteady voice. "I'm afraid
you'll think I'm pushing, but--" He paused, and the words sank to a murmur.

"Oh, if you want ME to play for you!" she said. "Yes, gladly. It will be merely absurd after
what you heard this afternoon. I play like a hundred thousand other girls, and I like it. I'm
glad when any one's willing to listen, and if you--" She stopped, checked by a sudden recollection,
and laughed ruefully. "But my piano won't be here after to-night. I--I'm sending it away to-morrow.
I'm afraid that if you'd like me to play to you you'd have to come this evening."

"You'll let me?" he cried.

"Certainly, if you care to."

"If I could play--" he said, wistfully, "if I could play like that old man in the church I
could thank you."

"Ah, but you haven't heard me play. I KNOW you liked this afternoon, but--"

"Yes," said Bibbs. "It was the greatest happiness I've ever known."

It was too dark to see his face, but his voice held such plain honesty, and he spoke with such
complete unconsciousness of saying anything especially significant, that she knew it was the
truth. For a moment she was nonplussed, then she opened the gate and went in. "You'll come
after dinner, then?"

"Yes," he said, not moving. "Would you mind if I stood here until time to come in?"

She had reached the steps, and at that she turned, offering him the response of laughter and
a gay gesture of her muff toward the lighted windows of the New House, as though bidding him
to run home to his dinner.

That night, Bibbs sat writing in his note-book.

  Music can come into a blank life, and fill it.  Everything that
  is beautiful is music, if you can listen.

  There is no gracefulness like that of a graceful woman at a grand
  piano.  There is a swimming loveliness of line that seems to merge
  with the running of the sound, and you seem, as you watch her, to
  see what you are hearing and to hear what you are seeing.

  There are women who make you think of pine woods coming down to
  a sparkling sea.  The air about such a woman is bracing, and when
  she is near you, you feel strong and ambitious; you forget that
  the world doesn't like you.  You think that perhaps you are a great
  fellow, after all.  Then you come away and feel like a boy who has
  fallen in love with his Sunday-school teacher.  You'll be whipped
  for it--and ought to be.

  There are women who make you think of Diana, crowned with the moon.
  But they do not have the "Greek profile."  I do not believe Helen
  of Troy had a "Greek profile"; they would not have fought about her
  if her nose had been quite that long.  The Greek nose is not the
  adorable nose.  The adorable nose is about an eighth of an inch
  shorter.

  Much of the music of Wagner, it appears, is not suitable to the
  piano.  Wagner was a composer who could interpret into music such
  things as the primitive impulses of humanity--he could have made a
  machine-shop into music.  But not if he had to work in it.  Wagner
  was always dealing in immensities--a machine-shop would have put a
  majestic lump in so grand a gizzard as that.

  There is a mystery about pianos, it seems.  Sometimes they have to
  be "sent away."  That is how some people speak of the penitentiary.
  "Sent away" is a euphuism for "sent to prison."  But pianos are not
  sent to prison, and they are not sent to the tuner--the tuner is
  sent to them.  Why are pianos "sent away"--and where?

  Sometimes a glorious day shines into the most ordinary and useless
  life.  Happiness and beauty come caroling out of the air into the
  gloomy house of that life as if some stray angel just happened to
  perch on the roof-tree, resting and singing.  And the night after
  such a day is lustrous and splendid with the memory of it.  Music
  and beauty and kindness--those are the three greatest things God
  can give us.  To bring them all in one day to one who expected
  nothing--ah! the heart  that received them should be as humble as
  it is thankful.  But it is hard  to be humble when one is so rich
  with new memories.  It is impossible to be humble after a day of
  glory.

  Yes--the adorable nose is more than an eighth of an inch shorter
  than the Greek nose.  It is a full quarter of an inch shorter.

  There are women who will be kinder to a sick tramp than to a
  conquering hero.  But the sick tramp had better remember that's
  what he is.  Take care, take care!  Humble's the word!

CHAPTER XVII

That "mystery about pianos" which troubled Bibbs had been a mystery to Mr. Vertrees, and it
was being explained to him at about the time Bibbs scribbled the reference to it in his notes.
Mary had gone up-stairs upon Bibbs's departure at ten o'clock, and Mr. and Mrs. Vertrees sat
until after midnight in the library, talking. And in all that time they found not one cheerful
topic, but became more depressed with everything and with every phase of everything that they
discussed--no extraordinary state of affairs in a family which has always "held up its head,"
only to arrive in the end at a point where all it can do is to look on helplessly at the processes
of its own financial dissolution. For that was the point which this despairing couple had reached--they
could do nothing except look on and talk about it. They were only vaporing, and they knew it.

"She needn't to have done that about her piano," vapored Mr. Vertrees. "We could have managed
somehow without it. At least she ought to have consulted me, and if she insisted I could have
arranged the details with the--the dealer."

"She thought that it might be--annoying for you," Mrs. Vertrees explained. "Really, she planned
for you not to know about it until they had removed--until after to-morrow, that is, but I
decided to--to mention it. You see, she didn't even tell me about it until this morning. She
has another idea, too, I'm afraid. It's--it's--"

"Well?" he urged, as she found it difficult to go on.

"Her other idea is--that is, it was--I think it can be avoided, of course--it was about her furs."

"No!" he exclaimed, quickly. "I won't have it! You must see to that. I'd rather not talk to
her about it, but you mustn't let her."

"I'll try not," his wife promised. "Of course, they're very handsome."

"All the more reason for her to keep them!" he returned, irritably. "We're not THAT far gone,
I think!"

"Perhaps not yet," Mrs. Vertrees said. "She seems to be troubled about the--the coal matter
and--about Tilly. Of course the piano will take care of some things like those for a while and--"

"I don't like it. I gave her the piano to play on, not to--"

"You mustn't be distressed about it in ONE way," she said, comfortingly. "She arranged with
the--with the purchaser that the men will come for it about half after five in the afternoon.
The days are so short now it's really quite winter."

"Oh, yes," he agreed, moodily. "So far as that goes people have a right to move a piece of
furniture without stirring up the neighbors, I suppose, even by daylight. I don't suppose OUR
neighbors are paying much attention just now, though I hear Sheridan was back in his office
early the morning after the funeral."

Mrs. Vertrees made a little sound of commiseration. "I don't believe that was because he wasn't
suffering, though. I'm sure it was only because he felt his business was so important. Mary
told me he seemed wrapped up in his son's succeeding; and that was what he bragged about most.
He isn't vulgar in his boasting, I understand; he doesn't talk a great deal about his--his
actual money--though there was something about blades of grass that I didn't comprehend. I
think he meant something about his energy--but perhaps not. No, his bragging usually seemed
to be not so much a personal vainglory as about his family and the greatness of this city."

"'Greatness of this city'!" Mr. Vertrees echoed, with dull bitterness. "It's nothing but a
coal-hole! I suppose it looks 'great' to the man who has the luck to make it work for him.
I suppose it looks 'great' to any YOUNG man, too, starting out to make his fortune out of it.
The fellows that get what they want out of it say it's 'great,' and everybody else gets the
habit. But you have a different point of view if it's the city that got what it wanted out
of you! Of course Sheridan says it's 'great'."

Mrs. Vertrees seemed unaware of this unusual outburst. "I believe," she began, timidly, "he
doesn't boast of--that is, I understand he has never seemed so interested in the--the other one."

Her husband's face was dark, but at that a heavier shadow fell upon it; he looked more haggard
than before. "'The other one'," he repeated, averting his eyes. "You mean--you mean the third
son--the one that was here this evening?"

"Yes, the--the youngest," she returned, her voice so feeble it was almost a whisper.

And then neither of them spoke for several long minutes. Nor did either look at the other during
that silence.

At last Mr. Vertrees contrived to cough, but not convincingly. "What--ah--what was it Mary
said about him out in the hall, when she came in this afternoon? I heard you asking her something
about him, but she answered in such a low voice I didn't--ah--happen to catch it."

"She--she didn't say much. All she said was this: I asked her if she had enjoyed her walk with
him, and she said, 'He's the most wistful creature I've ever known.'"

"Well?"

"That was all. He IS wistful-looking; and so fragile--though he doesn't seem quite so much
so lately. I was watching Mary from the window when she went out to-day, and he joined her,
and if I hadn't known about him I'd have thought he had quite an interesting face."

"If you 'hadn't known about him'? Known what?"

"Oh, nothing, of course," she said, hurriedly. "Nothing definite, that is. Mary said decidely,
long ago, that he's not at all insane, as we thought at first. It's only--well, of course it
IS odd, their attitude about him. I suppose it's some nervous trouble that makes him--perhaps
a little queer at times, so that he can't apply himself to anything--or perhaps does odd things.
But, after all, of course, we only have an impression about it. We don't know--that is, positively.
I--" She paused, then went on: "I didn't know just how to ask--that is--I didn't mention it
to Mary. I didn't--I--" The poor lady floundered pitifully, concluding with a mumble. "So soon
after--after the--the shock."

"I don't think I've caught more than a glimpse of him," said Mr. Vertrees. "I wouldn't know
him if I saw him, but your impression of him is--" He broke off suddenly, springing to his
feet in agitation. "I can't imagine her--oh, NO!" he gasped. And he began to pace the floor.
"A half-witted epileptic!"

"No, no!" she cried. "He may be all right. We--"

"Oh, it's horrible! I can't--" He threw himself back into his chair again, sweeping his hands
across his face, then letting them fall limply at his sides.

Mrs. Vertrees was tremulous. "You mustn't give way so," she said, inspired for once almost
to direct discourse. "Whatever Mary might think of doing, it wouldn't be on her own account;
it would be on ours. But if WE should--should consider it, that wouldn't be on OUR own account.
It isn't because we think of ourselves."

"Oh God, no!" he groaned. "Not for us! We can go to the poorhouse, but Mary can't be a stenographer!"

Sighing, Mrs. Vertrees resumed her obliqueness. "Of course," she murmured, "it all seems very
premature, speculating about such things, but I had a queer sort of feeling that she seemed
quite interested in this--" She had almost said "in this one," but checked herself. "In this
young man. It's natural, of course; she is always so strong and well, and he is--he seems to
be, that is--rather appealing to the--the sympathies."

"Yes!" he agreed, bitterly. "Precisely. The sympathies!"

"Perhaps," she faltered, "perhaps you might feel easier if I could have a little talk with
some one?"

"With whom?"

"I had thought of--not going about it too brusquely, of course, but perhaps just waiting for
his name to be mentioned, if I happened to be talking with somebody that knew the family--and
then I might find a chance to say that I was sorry to hear he'd been ill so much, and--Something
of that kind perhaps?"

"You don't know anybody that knows the family."

"Yes. That is--well, in a way, of course, one OF the family. That Mrs. Roscoe Sheridan is not
a--that is, she's rather a pleasant-faced little woman, I think, and of course rather ordinary.
I think she is interested about--that is, of course, she'd be anxious to be more intimate with
Mary, naturally. She's always looking over here from her house; she was looking out the window
this afternoon when Mary went out, I noticed--though I don't think Mary saw her. I'm sure she
wouldn't think it out of place to--to be frank about matters. She called the other day, and
Mary must rather like her--she said that evening that the call had done her good. Don't you
think it might be wise?"

"Wise? I don't know. I feel the whole matter is impossible."

"Yes, so do I," she returned, promptly. "It isn't really a thing we should be considering seriously,
of course. Still--"

"I should say not! But possibly--"

Thus they skirmished up and down the field, but before they turned the lights out and went
up-stairs it was thoroughly understood between them that Mrs. Vertrees should seek the earliest
opportunity to obtain definite information from Sibyl Sheridan concerning the mental and physical
status of Bibbs. And if he were subject to attacks of lunacy, the unhappy pair decided to prevent
the sacrifice they supposed their daughter intended to make of herself. Altogether, if there
were spiteful ghosts in the old house that night, eavesdropping upon the woeful comedy, they
must have died anew of laughter!

Mrs. Vertrees's opportunity occurred the very next afternoon. Darkness had fallen, and the
piano-movers had come. They were carrying the piano down the front steps, and Mrs. Vertrees
was standing in the open doorway behind them, preparing to withdraw, when she heard a sharp
exclamation; and Mrs. Roscoe Sheridan, bareheaded, emerged from the shadow into the light of
the doorway.

"Good gracious!" she cried. "It did give me a fright!"

"It's Mrs. Sheridan, isn't it?" Mrs. Vertrees was perplexed by this informal appearance, but
she reflected that it might be providential. "Won't you come in?"

"No. Oh no, thank you!" Sibyl panted, pressing her hand to her side. "You don't know what a
fright you've given me! And it was nothing but your piano!" She laughed shrilly. "You know,
since our tragedy coming so suddenly the other day, you have no idea how upset I've been--almost
hysterical! And I just glanced out of the window, a minute or so ago, and saw your door wide
open and black figures of men against the light, carrying something heavy, and I almost fainted.
You see, it was just the way it looked when I saw them bringing my poor brother-in-law in,
next door, only such a few short days ago. And I thought I'd seen your daughter start for a
drive with Bibbs Sheridan in a car about three o'clock--and-- They aren't back yet, are they?"

"No. Good heavens!"

"And the only thing I could think of was that something must have happened to them, and I just
dashed over--and it was only your PIANO!" She broke into laughter again. "I suppose you're
just sending it somewhere to be repaired, aren't you?"

"It's--it's being taken down-town," said Mrs. Vertrees. "Won't you come in and make me a little
visit. I was SO sorry, the other day, that I was--ah--" She stopped inconsequently, then repeated
her invitation. "Won't you come in? I'd really--"

"Thank you, but I must be running back. My husband usually gets home about this time, and I
make a little point of it always to be there."

"That's very sweet." Mrs. Vertrees descended the steps and walked toward the street with Sibyl.
"It's quite balmy for so late in November, isn't it? Almost like a May evening."

"I'm afraid Miss Vertrees will miss her piano," said Sibyl, watching the instrument disappear
into the big van at the curb. "She plays wonderfully, Mrs. Kittersby tells me."

"Yes, she plays very well. One of your relatives came to hear her yesterday, after dinner,
and I think she played all evening for him."

"You mean Bibbs?" asked Sibyl.

"The--the youngest Mr. Sheridan. Yes. He's very musical, isn't he?"

"I never heard of it. But I shouldn't think it would matter much whether he was or not, if
he could get Miss Vertrees to play to him. Does your daughter expect the piano back soon?"

"I--I believe not immediately. Mr. Sheridan came last evening to hear her play because she
had arranged with the--that is, it was to be removed this afternoon. He seems almost well again."

"Yes." Sibyl nodded. "His father's going to try to start him to work."

"He seems very delicate," said Mrs. Vertrees. "I shouldn't think he would be able to stand
a great deal, either physically or--" She paused and then added, glowing with the sense of
her own adroitness--"or mentally."

"Oh, mentally Bibbs is all right," said Sibyl, in an odd voice.

"Entirely?" Mrs. Vertrees asked, breathlessly.

"Yes, entirely."

"But has he ALWAYS been?" This question came with the same anxious eagerness.

"Certainly. He had a long siege of nervous dyspepsia, but he's over it."

"And you think--"

"Bibbs is all right. You needn't wor--" Sibyl choked, and pressed her handkerchief to her mouth.
"Good night, Mrs. Vertrees," she said, hurriedly, as the head-lights of an automobile swung
round the corner above, sending a brightening glare toward the edge of the pavement where the
two ladies were standing.

"Won't you come in?" urged Mrs. Vertrees, cordially, hearing the sound of a cheerful voice
out of the darkness beyond the approaching glare. "Do! There's Mary now, and she--"

But Sibyl was half-way across the street. "No, thanks," she called. "I hope she won't miss
her piano!" And she ran into her own house and plunged headlong upon a leather divan in the
hall, holding her handkerchief over her mouth.

The noise of her tumultuous entrance was evidently startling in the quiet house, for upon the
bang of the door there followed the crash of a decanter, dropped upon the floor of the dining-room
at the end of the hall; and, after a rumble of indistinct profanity, Roscoe came forth, holding
a dripping napkin in his hand.

"What's your excitement?" he demanded. "What do you find to go into hysterics over? Another
death in the family?"

"Oh, it's funny!" she gasped. "Those old frost-bitten people! I guess THEY'RE getting their
come-uppance!" Lying prone, she elevated her feet in the air, clapped her heels together repeatedly,
in an ecstasy.

"Come through, come through!" said her husband, crossly. "What you been up to?"

"Me?" she cried, dropping her feet and swinging around to face him. "Nothing. It's them! Those
Vertreeses!" She wiped her eyes. "They've had to sell their piano!"

"Well, what of it?"

"That Mrs. Kittersby told me all about 'em a week ago," said Sibyl. "They've been hard up for
a long time, and she says as long ago as last winter she knew that girl got a pair of walking-shoes
re-soled and patched, because she got it done the same place Mrs. Kittersby's cook had HERS!
And the night of the house-warming I kind of got suspicious, myself. She didn't have one single
piece of any kind of real jewelry, and you could see her dress was an old one done over. Men
can't tell those things, and you all made a big fuss over her, but I thought she looked a sight,
myself! Of course, EDITH was crazy to have her, and--"

"Well, well?" he urged, impatiently.

"Well, I'm TELLING you! Mrs. Kittersby says they haven't got a THING! Just absolutely NOTHING--and
they don't know anywhere to turn! The family's all died out but them, and all the relatives
they got are very distant, and live East and scarcely know 'em. She says the whole town's been
wondering what WOULD become of 'em. The girl had plenty chances to marry up to a year or so
ago, but she was so indifferent she scared the men off, and the ones that had wanted to went
and married other girls. Gracious! they were lucky! Marry HER? The man that found himself tied
up to THAT girl--"

"Terrible funny, terrible funny!" said Roscoe, with sarcasm. "It's so funny I broke a cut-glass
decanter and spilled a quart of--"

"Wait!" she begged. "You'll see. I was sitting by the window a little while ago, and I saw
a big wagon drive up across the street and some men go into the house. It was too dark to make
out much, and for a minute I got the idea they were moving out--the house has been foreclosed
on, Mrs. Kittersby says. It seemed funny, too, because I knew that girl was out riding with
Bibbs. Well, I thought I'd see, so I slipped over--and it was their PIANO! They'd sold it and
were trying to sneak it out after dark, so nobody'd catch on!" Again she gave way to her enjoyment,
but resumed, as her husband seemed about to interrupt the narrative. "Wait a minute, can't
you? The old lady was superintending, and she gave it all away. I sized her up for one of those
old churchy people that tell all kinds of lies except when it comes to so many words, and then
they can't. She might just as well told me outright! Yes, they'd sold it; and I hope they'll
pay some of their debts. They owe everybody, and last week a coal-dealer made an awful fuss
at the door with Mr. Vertrees. Their cook told our upstairs girl, and she said she didn't know
WHEN she'd seen any money, herself! Did you ever hear of such a case as that girl in your LIFE?"

"What girl? Their cook?"

"That Vertrees girl! Don't you see they looked on our coming up into this neighborhood as their
last chance? They were just going down and out, and here bobs up the green, rich Sheridan family!
So they doll the girl up in her old things, made over, and send her out to get a Sheridan--she's
GOT to get one! And she just goes in blind; and she tries it on first with YOU. You remember,
she just plain TOLD you she was going to mash you, and then she found out you were the married
one, and turned right square around to Jim and carried him off his feet. Oh, Jim was landed--there's
no doubt about THAT! But Jim was lucky; he didn't live to STAY landed, and it's a good thing
for him!" Sibyl's mirth had vanished, and she spoke with virulent rapidity. "Well, she couldn't
get you, because you were married, and she couldn't get Jim, because Jim died. And there they
were, dead broke! Do you know what she did? Do you know what she's DOING?"

"No, I don't," said Roscoe, gruffly.

Sibyl's voice rose and culminated in a scream of renewed hilarity. "BIBBS! She waited in the
grave-yard, and drove home with him from JIM'S FUNERAL! Never spoke to him before! Jim wasn't
COLD!"

She rocked herself back and forth upon the divan. "Bibbs!" she shrieked. "Bibbs! Roscoe, THINK
of it! BIBBS!"

He stared unsympathetically, but her mirth was unabated for all that. "And yesterday," she
continued, between paroxysms--"yesterday she came out of the house--just as he was passing.
She must have been looking out--waiting for the chance; I saw the old lady watching at the
window! And she got him there last night--to 'PLAY' to him; the old lady gave that away! And
to-day she made him take her out in a machine! And the cream of it is that they didn't even
know whether he was INSANE or not--they thought maybe he was, but she went after him just the
same! The old lady set herself to pump me about it to-day. BIBBS! Oh, my Lord! BIBBS!"

But Roscoe looked grim. "So it's funny to you, is it? It sounds kind of pitiful to me. I should
think it would to a woman, too."

"Oh, it might," she returned, sobering. "It might, if those people weren't such frozen-faced
smart Alecks. If they'd had the decency to come down off the perch a little I probably wouldn't
think it was funny, but to see 'em sit up on their pedestal all the time they're eating dirt--well,
I think it's funny! That girl sits up as if she was Queen Elizabeth, and expects people to
wallow on the ground before her until they get near enough for her to give 'em a good kick
with her old patched shoes--oh, she'd do THAT, all right!--and then she powders up and goes
out to mash--BIBBS SHERIDAN!"

"Look here," said Roscoe, heavily; "I don't care about that one way or another. If you're through,
I got something I want to talk to you about. I was going to, that day just before we heard
about Jim."

At this Sibyl stiffened quickly; her eyes became intensely bright. "What is it?"

"Well," he began, frowning, "what I was going to say then--" He broke off, and, becoming conscious
that he was still holding the wet napkin in his hand, threw it pettishly into a corner. "I
never expected I'd have to say anything like this to anybody I MARRIED; but I was going to
ask you what was the matter between you and Lamhorn."

Sibyl uttered a sharp monosyllable. "Well?"

"I felt the time had come for me to know about it," he went on. "You never told me anything--"

"You never asked," she interposed, curtly.

"Well, we'd got in a way of not talking much," said Roscoe. "It looks to me now as if we'd
pretty much lost the run of each other the way a good many people do. I don't say it wasn't
my fault. I was up early and down to work all day, and I'd come home tired at night, and want
to go to bed soon as I'd got the paper read--unless there was some good musical show in town.
Well, you seemed all right until here lately, the last month or so, I began to see something
was wrong. I couldn't help seeing it."

"Wrong?" she said. "What like?"

"You changed; you didn't look the same. You were all strung up and excited and fidgety; you
got to looking peakid and run down. Now then, Lamhorn had been going with us a good while,
but I noticed that not long ago you got to picking on him about every little thing he did;
you got to quarreling with him when I was there and when I wasn't. I could see you'd been quarreling
whenever I came in and he was here."

"Do you object to that?" asked Sibyl, breathing quickly.

"Yes--when it injures my wife's health!" he returned, with a quick lift of his eyes to hers.
"You began to run down just about the time you began falling out with him." He stepped close
to her. "See here, Sibyl, I'm going to know what it means."

"Oh, you ARE?" she snapped.

"You're trembling," he said, gravely.

"Yes. I'm angry enough to do more than tremble, you'll find. Go on!"

"That was all I was going to say the other day," he said. "I was going to ask you--"

"Yes, that was all you were going to say THE OTHER DAY. Yes. What else have you to say to-night?"

"To-night," he replied, with grim swiftness, "I want to know why you keep telephoning him you
want to see him since he stopped coming here."

She made a long, low sound of comprehension before she said, "And what else did Edith want
you to ask me?"

"I want to know what you say over the telephone to Lamhorn," he said, fiercely.

"Is that all Edith told you to ask me? You saw her when you stopped in there on your way home
this evening, didn't you? Didn't she tell you then what I said over the telephone to Mr. Lamhorn?"

"No, she didn't!" he vociferated, his voice growing louder. "She said, 'You tell your wife
to stop telephoning Robert Lamhorn to come and see her, because he isn't going to do it!' That's
what she said! And I want to know what it means. I intend--"

A maid appeared at the lower end of the hall. "Dinner is ready," she said, and, giving the
troubled pair one glance, went demurely into the dining-room. Roscoe disregarded the interruption.

"I intend to know exactly what has been going on," he declared. "I mean to know just what--"

Sibyl jumped up, almost touching him, standing face to face with him.

"Oh, you DO!" she cried, shrilly. "You mean to know just what's what, do you? You listen to
your sister insinuating ugly things about your wife, and then you come home making a scene
before the servants and humiliating me in their presence! Do you suppose that Irish girl didn't
hear every word you said? You go in there and eat your dinner alone! Go on! Go and eat your
dinner alone--because I won't eat with you!"

And she broke away from the detaining grasp he sought to fasten upon her, and dashed up the
stairway, panting. He heard the door of her room slam overhead, and the sharp click of the
key in the lock.

CHAPTER XVIII

At seven o'clock on the last morning of that month, Sheridan, passing through the upper hall
on his way to descend the stairs for breakfast, found a couple of scribbled sheets of note-paper
lying on the floor. A window had been open in Bibbs's room the evening before; he had left
his note-book on the sill--and the sheets were loose. The door was open, and when Bibbs came
in and closed it, he did not notice that the two sheets had blown out into the hall. Sheridan
recognized the handwriting and put the sheets in his coat pocket, intending to give them to
George or Jackson for return to the owner, but he forgot and carried them down-town with him.
At noon he found himself alone in his office, and, having a little leisure, remembered the
bits of manuscript, took them out, and glanced at them. A glance was enough to reveal that
they were not epistolary. Sheridan would not have read a "private letter" that came into his
possession in that way, though in a "matter of business" he might have felt it his duty to
take advantage of an opportunity afforded in any manner whatsoever. Having satisfied himself
that Bibbs's scribblings were only a sample of the kind of writing his son preferred to the
machine-shop, he decided, innocently enough, that he would be justified in reading them.

  It appears that a lady will nod pleasantly upon some windy
  generalization of a companion, and will wear the most agreeable
  expression of accepting it as the law, and then--days afterward,
  when the thing is a mummy to its promulgator--she will inquire out
  of a clear sky:  "WHY did you say that the people down-town have
  nothing in life that a chicken hasn't?  What did you mean?"  And she
  may say it in a manner that makes a sensible reply very difficult
  --you will be so full of wonder that she remembered so seriously.

  Yet, what does the rooster lack?  He has food and shelter; he is
  warm in winter; his wives raise not one fine family for him, but
  dozens.  He has a clear sky over him; he breathes sweet air; he
  walks in his April orchard under a roof of flowers.  He must die,
  violently perhaps, but quickly.  Is Midas's cancer a better way?
  The rooster's wives and children must die.  Are those of Midas
  immortal?  His life is shorter than the life of Midas, but Midas's
  life is only a sixth as long as that of the Galapagos tortoise.

  The worthy money-worker takes his vacation so that he may refresh
  himself anew for the hard work of getting nothing that the rooster
  doesn't get.  The office-building has an elevator, the rooster
  flies up to the bough.  Midas has a machine to take him to his work;
  the rooster finds his worm underfoot.  The "business man" feels
  a pressure sometimes, without knowing why, and sits late at wine
  after the day's labor; next morning he curses his head because it
  interferes with the work--he swears never to relieve that pressure
  again.  The rooster has no pressure and no wine; this difference is
  in his favor.

  The rooster is a dependent; he depends upon the farmer and the
  weather.  Midas is a dependent; he depends upon the farmer and the
  weather.  The rooster thinks only of the moment; Midas provides for
  to-morrow.  What does he provide for to-morrow?  Nothing that the
  rooster will not have without providing.

  The rooster and the prosperous worker:  they are born, they grub,
  they love; they grub and love grubbing; they grub and they die.
  Neither knows beauty; neither knows knowledge.  And after all, when
  Midas dies and the rooster dies, there is one thing Midas has had
  and rooster has not.  Midas has had the excitement of accumulating
  what he has grubbed, and that has been his life and his love and
  his god.  He cannot take that god with him when he dies.  I wonder
  if the worthy gods are those we can take with us.

  Midas must teach all to be as Midas; the young must be raised in
  his religion--

The manuscript ended there, and Sheridan was not anxious for more. He crumpled the sheets into
a ball, depositing it (with vigor) in a waste-basket beside him; then, rising, he consulted
a Cyclopedia of Names, which a book-agent had somehow sold to him years before; a volume now
first put to use for the location of "Midas." Having read the legend, Sheridan walked up and
down the spacious office, exhaling the breath of contempt. "Dam' fool!" he mumbled. But this
was no new thought, nor was the contrariness of Bibbs's notes a surpise to him; and presently
he dismissed the matter from his mind.

He felt very lonely, and this was, daily, his hardest hour. For a long time he and Jim had
lunched together habitually. Roscoe preferred a club luncheon, but Jim and his father almost
always went to a small restaurant near the Sheridan Building, where they spent twenty minutes
in the consumption of food, and twenty in talk, with cigars. Jim came for his father every
day, at five minutes after twelve, and Sheridan was again in his office at five minutes before
one. But now that Jim no longer came, Sheridan remained alone in his office; he had not gone
out to lunch since Jim's death, nor did he have anything sent to him--he fasted until evening.

It was the time he missed Jim personally the most--the voice and eyes and handshake, all brisk
and alert, all business-like. But these things were not the keenest in Sheridan's grief; his
sense of loss went far deeper. Roscoe was dependable, a steady old wheel-horse, and that was
a great comfort; but it was in Jim that Sheridan had most happily perceived his own likeness.
Jim was the one who would have been surest to keep the great property growing greater, year
by year. Sheridan had fallen asleep, night after night, picturing what the growth would be
under Jim. He had believed that Jim was absolutely certain to be one of the biggest men in
the country. Well, it was all up to Roscoe now!

That reminded him of a question he had in mind to ask Roscoe. It was a question Sheridan considered
of no present importance, but his wife had suggested it--though vaguely--and he had meant to
speak to Roscoe about it. However, Roscoe had not come into his father's office for several
days, and when Sheridan had seen his son at home there had been no opportunity.

He waited until the greater part of his day's work was over, toward four o'clock, and then
went down to Roscoe's office, which was on a lower floor. He found several men waiting for
business interviews in an outer room of the series Roscoe occupied; and he supposed that he
would find his son busy with others, and that his question would have to be postponed, but
when he entered the door marked "R. C. Sheridan. Private," Roscoe was there alone.

He was sitting with his back to the door, his feet on a window-sill, and he did not turn as
his father opened the door.

"Some pretty good men out there waitin' to see you, my boy," said Sheridan. "What's the matter?"

"Nothing," Roscoe answered indistinctly, not moving.

"Well, I guess that's all right, too. I let 'em wait sometimes myself! I just wanted to ask
you a question, but I expect it'll keep, if you're workin' something out in your mind!"

Roscoe made no reply; and his father, who had turned to the door, paused with his hand on the
knob, staring curiously at the motionless figure in the chair. Usually the son seemed pleased
and eager when he came to the office. "You're all right, ain't you?" said Sheridan. "Not sick,
are you?"

"No."

Sheridan was puzzled; then, abruptly, he decided to ask his question. "I wanted to talk to
you about that young Lamhorn," he said. "I guess your mother thinks he's comin' to see Edith
pretty often, and you known him longer'n any of us, so--"

"I won't," said Roscoe, thickly--"I won't say a dam' thing about him!"

Sheridan uttered an exclamation and walked quickly to a position near the window where he could
see his son's face. Roscoe's eyes were bloodshot and vacuous; his hair was disordered, his
mouth was distorted, and he was deathly pale. The father stood aghast.

"By George!" he muttered. "ROSCOE!"

"My name," said Roscoe. "Can' help that."

"ROSCOE!" Blank astonishment was Sheridan's first sensation. Probably nothing in the world
could have more amazed his than to find Roscoe--the steady old wheel-horse--in this condition.
"How'd you GET this way?" he demanded. "You caught cold and took too much for it?"

For reply Roscoe laughed hoarsely. "Yeuh! Cold! I been drinkun all time, lately. Firs' you
notice it?"

"By George!" cried Sheridan. "I THOUGHT I'd smelt it on you a good deal lately, but I wouldn't
'a' believed you'd take more'n was good for you. Boh! To see you like a common hog!"

Roscoe chuckled and threw out his right arm in a meaningless gesture. "Hog!" he repeated, chuckling.

"Yes, a hog!" said Sheridan, angrily. "In business hours! I don't object to anybody's takin'
a drink if you wants to, out o' business hours; nor, if a man keeps his work right up to the
scratch, I wouldn't be the one to baste him if he got good an' drunk once in two, three years,
maybe. It ain't MY way. I let it alone, but I never believed in forcin' my way on a grown-up
son in moral matters. I guess I was wrong! You think them men out there are waitin' to talk
business with a drunkard? You think you can come to your office and do business drunk? By George!
I wonder how often this has been happening and me not on to it! I'll have a look over your
books to-morrow, and I'll--"

Roscoe stumbled to his feet, laughing wildly, and stood swaying, contriving to hold himself
in position by clutching the back of the heavy chair in which he had been sitting.

"Hoo--hoorah!" he cried. "'S my principles, too. Be drunkard all you want to--outside business
hours. Don' for Gossake le'n'thing innerfere business hours! Business! Thassit! You're right,
father. Drink! Die! L'everything go to hell, but DON' let innerfere business!"

Sheridan had seized the telephone upon Roscoe's desk, and was calling his own office, overhead.
"Abercrombie? Come down to my son Roscoe's suite and get rid of some gentlemen that are waitin'
there to see him in room two-fourteen. There's Maples and Schirmer and a couple o' fellows
on the Kinsey business. Tell 'em something's come up I have to go over with Roscoe, and tell
'em to come back day after to-morrow at two. You needn't come in to let me know they're gone;
we don't want to be disturbed. Tell Pauly to call my house and send Claus down here with a
closed car. We may have to go out. Tell him to hustle, and call me at Roscoe's room as soon
as the car gets here. 'T's all!"

Roscoe had laughed bitterly throughout this monologue. "Drunk in business hours! Thass awf'l!
Mus'n' do such thing! Mus'n' get drunk, mus'n' gamble, mus'n' kill 'nybody--not in business
hours! All right any other time. Kill 'nybody you want to--'s long 'tain't in business hours!
Fine! Mus'n' have any trouble 't'll innerfere business. Keep your trouble 't home. Don' bring
it to th' office. Might innerfere business! Have funerals on Sunday--might innerfere business!
Don' let your wife innerfere business! Keep all, all, ALL your trouble an' your meanness, an'
your trad--your tradegy--keep 'em ALL for home use! If you got die, go on die 't home--don'
die round th' office! Might innerfere business!"

Sheridan picked up a newspaper from Roscoe's desk, and sat down with his back to his son, affecting
to read. Roscoe seemed to be unaware of his father's significant posture.

"You know wh' I think?" he went on. "I think Bibbs only one the fam'ly any 'telligence at all.
Won' work, an' di'n' get married. Jim worked, an' he got killed. I worked, an' I got married.
Look at me! Jus' look at me, I ask you. Fine 'dustriss young business man. Look whass happen'
to me! Fine!" He lifted his hand from the sustaining chair in a deplorable gesture, and, immediately
losing his balance, fell across the chair and caromed to the floor with a crash, remaining
prostrate for several minutes, during which Sheridan did not relax his apparent attention to
the newspaper. He did not even look round at the sound of Roscoe's fall.

Roscoe slowly climbed to an upright position, pulling himself up by holding to the chair. He
was slightly sobered outwardly, having progressed in the prostrate interval to a state of befuddlement
less volatile. He rubbed his dazed eyes with the back of his left hand.

"What--what you ask me while ago?" he said.

"Nothin'."

"Yes, you did. What--what was it?"

"Nothin'. You better sit down."

"You ask' me what I thought about Lamhorn. You did ask me that. Well, I won't tell you. I won't
say dam' word 'bout him!"

The telephone-bell tinkled. Sheridan placed the receiver to his ear and said, "Right down."
Then he got Roscoe's coat and hat from a closet and brought them to his son. "Get into this
coat," he said. "You're goin' home."

"All ri'," Roscoe murmured, obediently.

They went out into the main hall by a side door, not passing through the outer office; and
Sheridan waited for an empty elevator, stopped it, and told the operator to take on no more
passengers until they reached the ground floor. Roscoe walked out of the building and got into
the automobile without lurching, and twenty minutes later walked into his own house in the
same manner, neither he nor his father having spoken a word in the interval.

Sheridan did not go in with him; he went home, and to his own room without meeting any of his
family. But as he passed Bibbs's door he heard from within the sound of a cheerful young voice
humming jubilant fragments of song:

  WHO looks a mustang in the eye?...
  With a leap from the ground
  To the saddle in a bound.
      And away--and away!
      Hi-yay!

It was the first time in Sheridan's life that he had ever detected any musical symptom whatever
in Bibbs--he had never even heard him whistle--and it seemed the last touch of irony that the
useless fool should be merry to-day.

To Sheridan it was Tom o' Bedlam singing while the house burned; and he did not tarry to enjoy
the melody, but went into his own room and locked the door.

CHAPTER XIX

He emerged only upon a second summons to dinner, two hours later, and came to the table so
white and silent that his wife made her anxiety manifest and was but partially reassured by
his explanation that his lunch had "disagreed" with him a little.

Presently, however, he spoke effectively. Bibbs, whose appetite had become hearty, was helping
himself to a second breast of capon from white-jacket's salver. "Here's another difference
between Midas and chicken," Sheridan remarked, grimly. "Midas can eat rooster, but rooster
can't eat Midas. I reckon you overlooked that. Midas looks to me like he had the advantage there."

Bibbs retained enough presence of mind to transfer the capon breast to his plate without dropping
it and to respond, "Yes--he crows over it."

Having returned his antagonists's fire in this fashion, he blushed--for he could blush distinctly
now--and his mother looked upon him with pleasure, thought the reference to Midas and roosters
was of course jargon to her. "Did you ever see anybody improve the way that child has!" she
exclaimed. "I declare, Bibbs, sometimes lately you look right handsome!"

"He's got to be such a gadabout," Edith giggled.

"I found something of his on the floor up-stairs this morning, before anybody was up," said
Sheridan. "I reckon if people lose things in this house and expect to get 'em back, they better
get up as soon as I do."

"What was it he lost?" asked Edith.

"He knows!" her father returned. "Seems to me like I forgot to bring it home with me. I looked
it over--thought probably it was something pretty important, belongin' to a busy man like him."
He affected to search his pockets. "What DID I do with it, now? Oh yes! Seems to me like I
remember leavin' it down at the office--in the waste-basket."

"Good place for it," Bibbs murmured, still red.

Sheridan gave him a grin. "Perhaps pretty soon you'll be gettin' up early enough to find things
before I do!"

It was a threat, and Bibbs repeated the substance of it, later in the evening, to Mary Vertrees--they
had come to know each other that well.

"My time's here at last," he said, as they sat together in the melancholy gas-light of the
room which had been denuded of its piano. That removal had left an emptiness so distressing
to Mr. and Mrs. Vertrees that neither of them had crossed the threshold since the dark day;
but the gas-light, though from a single jet, shed no melancholy upon Bibbs, nor could any room
seem bare that knew the glowing presence of Mary. He spoke lightly, not sadly.

"Yes, it's come. I've shirked and put off, but I can't shirk and put off any longer. It's really
my part to go to him--at least it would save my face. He means what he says, and the time's
come to serve my sentence. Hard labor for life, I think."

Mary shook her head. "I don't think so. He's too kind."

"You think my father's KIND?" And Bibbs stared at her.

"Yes. I'm sure of it. I've felt that he has a great, brave heart. It's only that he has to
be kind in his own way--because he can't understand any other way."

"Ah yes," said Bibbs. "If that's what you mean by 'kind'!"

She looked at him gravely, earnest concern in her friendly eyes. "It's going to be pretty hard
for you, isn't it?"

"Oh--self-pity!" he returned, smiling. "This has been just the last flicker of revolt. Nobody
minds work if he likes the kind of work. There'd be no loafers in the world if each man found
the thing that he could do best; but the only work I happen to want to do is useless--so I
have to give it up. To-morrow I'll be a day-laborer."

"What is it like--exactly?"

"I get up at six," he said. "I have a lunch-basket to carry with me, which is aristocratic
and no advantage. The other workmen have tin buckets, and tin buckets are better. I leave the
house at six-thirty, and I'm at work in my overalls at seven. I have an hour off at noon, and
work again from one till five."

"But the work itself?"

"It wasn't muscularly exhausting--not at all. They couldn't give me a heavier job because I
wasn't good enough."

"But what will you do? I want to know."

"When I left," said Bibbs, "I was 'on' what they call over there a 'clipping-machine,' in one
of the 'by-products' departments, and that's what I'll be sent back to."

"But what is it?" she insisted.

Bibbs explained. "It's very simple and very easy. I feed long strips of zinc into a pair of
steel jaws, and the jaws bite the zinc into little circles. All I have to do is to see that
the strip goes into the jaws at a certain angle--and yet I was a very bad hand at it."

He had kept his voice cheerful as he spoke, but he had grown a shade paler, and there was a
latent anguish deep in his eyes. He may have known it and wished her not to see it, for he
turned away.

"You do that all day long?" she asked, and as he nodded, "It seems incredible!" she exclaimed.
"YOU feeding a strip of zinc into a machine nine hours a day! No wonder--" She broke off, and
then, after a keen glance at his face, she said: "I should think you WOULD have been a 'bad
hand at it'!"

He laughed ruefully. "I think it's the noise, though I'm ashamed to say it. You see, it's a
very powerful machine, and there's a sort of rhythmical crashing--a crash every time the jaws
bite off a circle."

"How often is that?"

"The thing should make about sixty-eight disks a minute--a little more than one a second."

"And you're close to it?"

"Oh, the workman has to sit in its lap," he said, turning to her more gaily. "The others don't
mind. You see, it's something wrong with me. I have an idiotic way of flinching from the confounded
thing--I flinch and duck a little every time the crash comes, and I couldn't get over it. I
was a treat to the other workmen in that room; they'll be glad to see me back. They used to
laugh at me all day long."

Mary's gaze was averted from Bibbs now; she sat with her elbow resting on the arm of the chair,
her lifted hand pressed against her cheek. She was staring at the wall, and her eyes had a
burning brightness in them.

"It doesn't seem possible any one could do that to you," she said, in a low voice. "No. He's
not kind. He ought to be proud to help you to the leisure to write books; it should be his
greatest privilege to have them published for you--"

"Can't you SEE him?" Bibbs interrupted, a faint ripple of hilarity in his voice. "If he could
understand what you're saying--and if you can imagine his taking such a notion, he'd have had
R. T. Bloss put up posters all over the country: 'Read B. Sheridan. Read the Poet with a Punch!'
No. It's just as well he never got the--But what's the use? I've never written anything worth
printing, and I never shall."

"You could!" she said.

"That's because you've never seen the poor little things I've tried to do."

"You wouldn't let me, but I KNOW you could! Ah, it's a pity!"

"It isn't," said BIBBS, honestly. "I never could--but you're the kindest lady in this world,
Miss Vertrees."

She gave him a flashing glance, and it was as kind as he said she was. "That sounds wrong,"
she said, impulsively. "I mean 'Miss Vertrees.' I've thought of you by your first name ever
since I met you. Wouldn't you rather call me 'Mary'?"

Bibbs was dazzled; he drew a long, deep breath and did not speak.

"Wouldn't you?" she asked, without a trace of coquetry.

"If I CAN!" he said, in a low voice.

"Ah, that's very pretty!" she laughed. "You're such an honest person, it's pleasant to have
you gallant sometimes, by way of variety." She became grave again immediately. "I hear myself
laughing as if it were some one else. It sounds like laughter on the eve of a great calamity."
She got up restlessly, crossed the room and leaned against the wall, facing him. "You've GOT
to go back to that place?"

He nodded.

"And the other time you did it--"

"Just over it," said Bibbs. "Two years. But I don't mind the prospect of a repetition so much as--"

"So much as what?" she prompted, as he stopped.

Bibbs looked up at her shyly. "I want to say it, but--but I come to a dead balk when I try. I--"

"Go on. Say it, whatever it is," she bade him. "You wouldn't know how to say anything I shouldn't
like."

"I doubt if you'd either like or dislike what I want to say," he returned, moving uncomfortably
in his chair and looking at his feet--he seemed to feel awkward, thoroughly. "You see, all
my life--until I met you--if I ever felt like saying anything, I wrote it instead. Saying things
is a new trick for me, and this--well, it's just this: I used to feel as if I hadn't ever had
any sort of a life at all. I'd never been of use to anything or anybody, and I'd never had
anything, myself, except a kind of haphazard thinking. But now it's different--I'm still of
no use to anybody, and I don't see any prospect of being useful, but I have had something for
myself. I've had a beautiful and happy experience, and it makes my life seem to be--I mean
I'm glad I've lived it! That's all; it's your letting me be near you sometimes, as you have,
this strange, beautiful, happy little while!"

He did not once look up, and reached silence, at the end of what he had to say, with his eyes
still awkwardly regarding his feet. She did not speak, but a soft rustling of her garments
let him know that she had gone back to her chair again. The house was still; the shabby old
room was so quiet that the sound of a creaking in the wall seemed sharp and loud.

And yet, when Mary spoke at last, her voice was barely audible. "If you think it has been--happy--to
be friends with me--you'd want to--to make it last."

"Yes," said Bibbs, as faintly.

"You'd want to go on being my friend as long as we live, wouldn't you?"

"Yes," he gulped.

"But you make that kind of speech to me because you think it's over."

He tried to evade her. "Oh, a day-laborer can't come in his overalls--"

"No," she interrupted, with a sudden sharpness. "You said what you did because you think the
shop's going to kill you."

"No, no!"

"Yes, you do think that!" She rose to her feet again and came and stood before him. "Or you
think it's going to send you back to the sanitarium. Don't deny it, Bibbs. There! See how easily
I call you that! You see I'm a friend, or I couldn't do it. Well, if you meant what you said--and
you did mean it, I know it!--you're not going to go back to the sanitarium. The shop sha'n't
hurt you. It sha'n't!"

And now Bibbs looked up. She stood before him, straight and tall, splendid in generous strength,
her eyes shining and wet.

"If I mean THAT much to you," she cried, "they can't harm you! Go back to the shop--but come
to me when your day's work is done. Let the machines crash their sixty-eight times a minute,
but remember each crash that deafens you is that much nearer the evening and me!"

He stumbled to his feet. "You say--" he gasped.

"Every evening, dear Bibbs!"

He could only stare, bewildered.

"EVERY evening. I want you. They sha'n't hurt you again!" And she held out her hand to him;
it was strong and warm in his tremulous clasp. "If I could, I'd go and feed the strips of zinc
to the machine with you," she said. "But all day long I'll send my thoughts to you. You must
keep remembering that your friend stands beside you. And when the work is done--won't the night
make up for the day?"

Light seemed to glow from her; he was blinded by that radiance of kindness. But all he could
say was, huskily, "To think you're there--with me--standing beside the old zinc-eater--"

And they laughed and looked at each other, and at last Bibbs found what it meant not to be
alone in the world. He had a friend.

CHAPTER XX

When he came into the New House, a few minutes later, he found his father sitting alone by
the library fire. Bibbs went in and stood before him. "I'm cured, father," he said. "When do
I go back to the shop? I'm ready."

The desolate and grim old man did not relax. "I was sittin' up to give you a last chance to
say something like that. I reckon it's about time! I just wanted to see if you'd have manhood
enough not to make me take you over there by the collar. Last night I made up my mind I'd give
you just one more day. Well, you got to it before I did--pretty close to the eleventh hour!
All right. Start in to-morrow. It's the first o' the month. Think you can get up in time?"

"Six o'clock," Bibbs responded, briskly. "And I want to tell you--I'm going in a 'cheerful
spirit.' As you said, I'll go and I'll 'like it'!"

"That's YOUR lookout!" his father grunted. "They'll put you back on the clippin'-machine. You
get nine dollars a week."

"More than I'm worth, too," said Bibbs, cheerily. "That reminds me, I didn't mean YOU by 'Midas'
in that nonsense I'd been writing. I meant--"

"Makes a hell of a lot o' difference what you meant!"

"I just wanted you to know. Good night, father."

"G'night!"

The sound of the young man's footsteps ascending the stairs became inaudible, and the house
was quiet. But presently, as Sheridan sat staring angrily at the fire, the shuffling of a pair
of slippers could be heard descending, and Mrs. Sheridan made her appearance, her oblique expression
and the state of her toilette being those of a person who, after trying unsuccessfully to sleep
on one side, has got up to look for burglars.

"Papa!" she exclaimed, drowsily. "Why'n't you go to bed? It must be goin' on 'leven o'clock!"

She yawned, and seated herself near him, stretching out her hands to the fire. "What's the
matter?" she asked, sleep and anxiety striving sluggishly with each other in her voice. "I
knew you were worried all dinner-time. You got something new on your mind besides Jim's bein'
taken away like he was. What's worryin' you now, papa?"

"Nothin'."

She jeered feebly. "N' tell ME that! You sat up to see Bibbs, didn't you?"

"He starts in at the shop again to-morrow morning," said Sheridan.

"Just the same as he did before?"

"Just pre-CISELY!"

"How--how long you goin' to keep him at it, papa?" she asked, timidly.

"Until he KNOWS something!" The unhappy man struck his palms together, then got to his feet
and began to pace the room, as was his wont when he talked. "He'll go back to the machine he
couldn't learn to tend properly in the six months he was there, and he'll stick to it till
he DOES learn it! Do you suppose that lummix ever asked himself WHY I want him to learn it?
No! And I ain't a-goin' to tell him, either! When he went there I had 'em set him on the simplest
machine we got--and he stuck there! How much prospect would there be of his learnin' to run
the whole business if he can't run the easiest machine in it? I sent him there to make him
THOROUGH. And what happened? He didn't LIKE it! That boy's whole life, there's been a settin'
up o' something mulish that's against everything I want him to do. I don't know what it is,
but it's got to be worked out of him. Now, labor ain't any more a simple question than what
it was when we were young. My idea is that, outside o' union troubles, the man that can manage
workin'-men is the man that's been one himself. Well, I set Bibbs to learn the men and to learn
the business, and HE set himself to balk on the first job! That's what he did, and the balk's
lasted close on to three years. If he balks again I'm just done with him! Sometimes I feel
like I was pretty near done with everything, anyhow!"

"I knew there was something else," said Mrs. Sheridan, blinking over a yawn. "You better let
it go till to-morrow and get to bed now--'less you'll tell me?"

"Suppose something happened to Roscoe," he said. "THEN what'd I have to look forward to? THEN
what could I depend on to hold things together? A lummix! A lummix that hasn't learned how
to push a strip o' zinc along a groove!"

"Roscoe?" she yawned. "You needn't worry about Roscoe, papa. He's the strongest child we had.
I never did know anybody keep better health than he does. I don't believe he's even had a cold
in five years. You better go up to bed, papa."

"Suppose something DID happen to him, though. You don't know what it means, keepin' property
together these days--just keepin' it ALIVE, let alone makin' it grow the way I do. I've seen
too many estates hacked away in chunks, big and little. I tell you when a man dies the wolves
come out o' the woods, pack after pack, to see what they can tear off for themselves; and if
that dead man's chuldern ain't on the job, night and day, everything he built'll get carried
off. Carried off? I've seen a big fortune behave like an ash-barrel in a cyclone--there wasn't
even a dust-heap left to tell where it stood! I've seen it, time and again. My Lord! when I
think o' such things comin' to ME! I tell you this business life is no fool's job nowadays--a
man's got to have eyes in the back of his head. You hear talk, sometimes, 'd make you think
the millennium had come--but right the next breath you'll hear somebody hollerin' about 'the
great unrest.' You BET there's a 'great unrest'! There ain't any man alive smart enough to
see what it's goin' to do to us in the end, nor what day it's got set to bust loose, but it's
frothin' and bubblin' in the boiler. This country's been fillin' up with it from all over the
world for a good many years, and the old camp-meetin' days are dead and done with. Church ain't
what it used to be. Nothin's what it used to be--everything's turned up from the bottom, and
the growth is so big the roots stick out in the air. There's an awful ruction goin' on, and
you got to keep hoppin' if you're goin' to keep your balance on the top of it. And the schemers!
They run like bugs on the bottom of a board--after any piece o' money they hear is loose. Fool
schemes and crooked schemes; the fool ones are the most and the worst! You got to FIGHT to
keep your money after you've made it. And the woods are full o' mighty industrious men that's
got only one motto: 'Get the other fellow's money before he gets yours!' And when a man's built
as I have, when he's built good and strong, and made good things grow and prosper--THOSE are
the fellows that lay for the chance to slide in and sneak the benefit of it and put their names
to it! And what's the use of my havin' ever been born, if such a thing as that is goin' to happen?

He strode up and down the long room, gesticulating--little regarding the troubled and drowsy
figure by the fireside. His throat rumbled thunderously; the words came with stormy bitterness.
"You think this is a time for young men to be lyin' on beds of ease? I tell you there never
was such a time before; there never was such opportunity. The sluggard is despoiled while he
sleeps--yes, by George! if a man lays down they'll eat him before he wakes!--but the live man
can build straight up till he touches the sky! This is the business man's day; it used to be
the soldier's day and the statesman's day, but this is OURS! And it ain't a Sunday to go fishin'--it's
turmoil! turmoil!--and you got to go out and live it and breathe it and MAKE it yourself, or
you'll only be a dead man walkin' around dreamin' you're alive. And that's what my son Bibbs
has been doin' all his life, and what he'd rather do now than go out and do his part by me.
And if anything happens to Roscoe--"

"Oh, do stop worryin' over such nonsense," Mrs. Sheridan interrupted, irritated into sharp
wakefulness for the moment. "There isn't anything goin' to happen to Roscoe, and you're just
tormentin' yourself about nothin'. Aren't you EVER goin' to bed?"

Sheridan halted. "All right, mamma," he said, with a vast sigh. "Let's go up." And he snapped
off the electric light, leaving only the rosy glow of the fire.

"Did you speak to Roscoe?" she yawned, rising lopsidedly in her drowsiness. "Did you mention
about what I told you the other evening?"

"No. I will to-morrow."

But Roscoe did not come down-town the next day, nor the next; nor did Sheridan see fit to enter
his son's house. He waited. Then, on the fourth day of the month, Roscoe walked into his father's
office at nine in the morning, when Sheridan happened to be alone.

"They told me down-stairs you'd left word you wanted to see me."

"Sit down," said Sheridan, rising.

Roscoe sat. His father walked close to him, sniffed suspiciously, and then walked away, smiling
bitterly. "Boh!" he exclaimed. "Still at it!"

"Yes," said Roscoe. "I've had a couple of drinks this morning. What about it?"

"I reckon I better adopt some decent young man," his father returned. "I'd bring Bibbs up here
and put him in your place if he was fit. I would!"

"Better do it," Roscoe assented, sullenly.

"When'd you begin this thing?"

"I always did drink a little. Ever since I grew up, that is."

"Leave that talk out! You know what I mean."

"Well, I don't know as I ever had too much in office hours--until the other day."

Sheridan began cutting. "It's a lie. I've had Ray Wills up from your office. He didn't want
to give you away, but I put the hooks into him, and he came through. You were drunk twice before
and couldn't work. You been leavin' your office for drinks every few hours for the last three
weeks. I been over your books. Your office is way behind. You haven't done any work, to count,
in a month."

"All right," said Roscoe, drooping under the torture. "It's all true."

"What you goin' to do about it?"

Roscoe's head was sunk between his shoulders. "I can't stand very much talk about it, father,"
he said, pleadingly.

"No!" Sheridan cried. "Neither can I! What do you think it means to ME?" He dropped into the
chair at his big desk, groaning. "I can't stand to talk about it any more'n you can to listen,
but I'm goin' to find out what's the matter with you, and I'm goin' to straighten you out!"

Roscoe shook his head helplessly.

"You can't straighten me out."

"See here!" said Sheridan. "Can you go back to your office and stay sober to-day, while I get
my work done, or will I have to hire a couple o' huskies to follow you around and knock the
whiskey out o' your hand if they see you tryin' to take it?"

"You needn't worry about that," said Roscoe, looking up with a faint resentment. "I'm not drinking
because I've got a thirst."

"Well, what have you got?"

"Nothing. Nothing you can do anything about. Nothing, I tell you."

"We'll see about that!" said Sheridan, harshly. "Now I can't fool with you to-day, and you
get up out o' that chair and get out o' my office. You bring your wife to dinner to-morrow.
You didn't come last Sunday--but you come to-morrow. I'll talk this out with you when the women-folks
are workin' the phonograph, after dinner. Can you keep sober till then? You better be sure,
because I'm going to send Abercrombie down to your office every little while, and he'll let
me know."

Roscoe paused at the door. "You told Abercrombie about it?" he asked.

"TOLD him!" And Sheridan laughed hideously. "Do you suppose there's an elevator-boy in the
whole dam' building that ain't on to you?"

Roscoe settled his hat down over his eyes and went out.

CHAPTER XXI

  "WHO looks a mustang in the eye?
  Changety, chang, chang!  Bash! Crash! BANG!"

So sang Bibbs, his musical gaieties inaudible to his fellow-workmen because of the noise of
the machinery. He had discovered long ago that the uproar was rhythmical, and it had been intolerable;
but now, on the afternoon of the fourth day of his return, he was accompanying the swing and
clash of the metals with jubilant vaquero fragments, mingling improvisations of his own among
them, and mocking the zinc-eater's crash with vocal imitations:

  Fearless and bold,
  Chang!  Bash!  Behold!
  With a leap from the ground
  To the saddle in a bound,
      And away--and away!
      Hi-YAY!
  WHO looks a chang, chang, bash, crash, bang!
  WHO cares a dash how you bash and you crash?
      NIGHT'S on the way
      EACH time I say,
      Hi-YAY!
  Crash, chang!  Bash, chang!  Chang, bang, BANG!

The long room was ceaselessly thundering with metallic sound; the air was thick with the smell
of oil; the floor trembled perpetually; everything was implacably in motion--nowhere was there
a rest for the dizzied eye. The first time he had entered the place Bibbs had become dizzy
instantly, and six months of it had only added increasing nausea to faintness. But he felt
neither now. He saw her there beside him, and the greasy, roaring place became suffused with
radiance. The poet was happy in his machine-shop; he was still a poet there. And he fed his
old zinc-eater, and sang:

      Away--and away!
      Hi-YAY!
  Crash, bash, crash, bash, CHANG!
    Wild are his eyes,
    Fiercely he dies!
      Hi-YAH!
  Crash, bash, bang!  Bash, CHANG!
    Ready to fling
    Our gloves in the ring--

He was unaware of a sensation that passed along the lines of workmen. Their great master had
come among them, and they grinned to see him standing with Dr. Gurney behind the unconscious
Bibbs. Sheridan nodded to those nearest him--he had personal acquaintance with nearly all of
them--but he kept his attention upon his son. Bibbs worked steadily, never turning from his
machine. Now and then he varied his musical programme with remarks addressed to the zinc-eater.

"Go on, you old crash-basher! Chew it up! It's good for you, if you don't try to bolt your
vittles. Fletcherize, you pig! That's right--YOU'LL never get a lump in your gizzard. Want
some more? Here's a nice, shiny one."

The words were indistinguishable, but Sheridan inclined his head to Gurney's ear and shouted
fiercely: "Talkin' to himself! By George!"

Gurney laughed reassuringly, and shook his head.

Bibbs returned to song:

  Chang!  Chang, bash, chang!  It's I!
  WHO looks a mustang in the eye?
    Fearless and bo--

His father grasped him by the arm. "Here!" he shouted. "Let ME show you how to run a strip
through there. The foreman says you're some better'n you used to be, but that's no way to handle--Get
out the way and let me show you once."

"Better be careful," Bibbs warned him, stepping to one side.

"Careful? Boh!" Sheridan seized a strip of zinc from the box. "What you talkin' to yourself
about? Tryin' to make yourself think you're so abused you're goin' wrong in the head?"

"'Abused'? No!" shouted Bibbs. "I was SINGING--because I 'like it'! I told you I'd come back
and 'like it.'"

Sheridan may not have understood. At all events, he made no reply, but began to run the strip
of zinc through the machine. He did it awkwardly--and with bad results.

"Here!" he shouted. "This is the way. Watch how I do it. There's nothin' to it, if you put
your mind on it." By his own showing then his mind was not upon it. He continued to talk. "All
you got to look out for is to keep it pressed over to--"

"Don't run your hand up with it," Bibbs vociferated, leaning toward him.

"Run nothin'! You GOT to--"

"Look out!" shouted Bibbs and Gurney together, and they both sprang forward. But Sheridan's
right hand had followed the strip too far, and the zinc-eater had bitten off the tips of the
first and second fingers. He swore vehemently, and wrung his hand, sending a shower of red
drops over himself and Bibbs, but Gurney grasped his wrist, and said, sharply:

"Come out of here. Come over to the lavatory in the office. Bibbs, fetch my bag. It's in my
machine, outside."

And when Bibbs brought the bag to the washroom he found the doctor still grasping Sheridan's
wrist, holding the injured hand over a basin. Sheridan had lost color, and temper, too. He
glared over his shoulder at his son as the latter handed the bag to Gurney.

"You go on back to your work," he said. "I've had worse snips than that from a pencil-sharpener."

"Oh no, you haven't!" said Gurney.

"I have, too!" Sheridan retorted, angrily. "Bibbs, you go on back to your work. There's no
reason to stand around here watchin' ole Doc Gurney tryin' to keep himself awake workin' on
a scratch that only needs a little court-plaster. I slipped, or it wouldn't happened. You get
back on your job."

"All right," said Bibbs.

"HERE!" Sheridan bellowed, as his son was passing out of the door. "You watch out when you're
runnin' that machine! You hear what I say? I slipped, or I wouldn't got scratched, but you--YOU'RE
liable to get your whole hand cut off! You keep your eyes open!"

"Yes, sir." And Bibbs returned to the zinc-eater thoughtfully.

Half an hour later, Gurney touched him on the shoulder and beckoned him outside, where conversation
was possible. "I sent him home, Bibbs. He'll have to be careful of that hand. Go get your overalls
off. I'll take you for a drive and leave you at home."

"Can't," said Bibbs. "Got to stick to my job till the whistle blows."

"No, you don't," the doctor returned, smothering a yawn. "He wants me to take you down to my
office and give you an overhauling to see how much harm these four days on the machine have
done you. I guess you folks have got that old man pretty thoroughly upset, between you, up
at your house! But I don't need to go over you. I can see with my eyes half shut--"

"Yes," Bibbs interrupted, "that's what they are."

"I say I can see you're starting out, at least, in good shape. What's made the difference?"

"I like the machine," said Bibbs. "I've made a friend of it. I serenade it and talk to it,
and then it talks back to me."

"Indeed, indeed? What does it say?"

"What I want to hear."

"Well, well!" The doctor stretched himself and stamped his foot repeatedly. "Better come along
and take a drive with me. You can take the time off that he allowed for the examination, and--"

"Not at all," said Bibbs. "I'm going to stand by my old zinc-eater till five o'clock. I tell
you I LIKE it!"

"Then I suppose that's the end of your wanting to write."

"I don't know about that," Bibbs said, thoughtfully; "but the zinc-eater doesn't interfere
with my thinking, at least. It's better than being in business; I'm sure of that. I don't want
anything to change. I'd be content to lead just the life I'm leading now to the end of my days."

"You do beat the devil!" exclaimed Gurney. "Your father's right when he tells me you're a mystery.
Perhaps the Almighty knew what He was doing when He made you, but it takes a lot of faith to
believe it! Well, I'm off. Go on back to your murdering old machine." He climbed into his car,
which he operated himself, but he refrained from setting it immediately in motion. "Well, I
rubbed it in on the old man that you had warned him not to slide his hand along too far, and
that he got hurt because he didn't pay attention to your warning, and because he was trying
to show you how to do something you were already doing a great deal better than he could. You
tell him I'll be around to look at it and change the dressing to-morrow morning. Good-by."

But when he paid the promised visit, the next morning, he did more than change the dressing
upon the damaged hand. The injury was severe of its kind, and Gurney spent a long time over
it, though Sheridan was rebellious and scornful, being brought to a degree of tractability
only by means of horrible threats and talk of amputation. However, he appeared at the dinner-table
with his hand supported in a sling, which he seemed to regard as an indignity, while the natural
inquiries upon the subject evidently struck him as deliberate insults. Mrs. Sheridan, having
been unable to contain her solicitude several times during the day, and having been checked
each time in a manner that blanched her cheek, hastened to warn Roscoe and Sibyl, upon their
arrival at five, to omit any reference to the injury and to avoid even looking at the sling
if they possibly could.

The Sheridans dined on Sundays at five. Sibyl had taken pains not to arrive either before or
after the hand was precisely on the hour; and the members of the family were all seated at
the table within two minutes after she and Roscoe had entered the house.

It was a glum gathering, overhung with portents. The air seemed charged, awaiting any tiny
ignition to explode; and Mrs. Sheridan's expression, as she sat with her eyes fixed almost
continually upon her husband, was that of a person engaged in prayer. Edith was pale and intent.
Roscoe looked ill; Sibyl looked ill; and Sheridan looked both ill and explosive. Bibbs had
more color than any of these, and there was a strange brightness, like a light, upon his face.
It was curious to see anything so happy in the tense gloom of that household.

Edith ate little, but gazed nearly all the time at her plate. She never once looked at Sibyl,
though Sibyl now and then gave her a quick glance, heavily charged, and then looked away. Roscoe
ate nothing, and, like Edith, kept his eyes upon his plate and made believe to occupy himself
with the viands thereon, loading his fork frequently, but not lifting it to his mouth. He did
not once look at his father, though his father gazed heavily at him most of the time. And between
Edith and Sibyl, and between Roscoe and his father, some bitter wireless communication seemed
continually to be taking place throughout the long silences prevailing during this enlivening
ceremony of Sabbath refection.

"Didn't you go to church this morning, Bibbs?" his mother asked, in the effort to break up
one of those ghastly intervals.

"What did you say, mother?"

"Didn't you go to church this morning?"

"I think so," he answered, as from a roseate trance.

"You THINK so! Don't you know?"

"Oh yes. Yes, I went to church!"

"Which one?"

"Just down the street. It's brick."

"What was the sermon about?"

"What, mother?"

"Can't you hear me?" she cried. "I asked you what the sermon was about?"

He roused himself. "I think it was about--" He frowned, seeming to concentrate his will to
recollect. "I think it was about something in the Bible."

White-jacket George was glad of an opportunity to leave the room and lean upon Mist' Jackson's
shoulder in the pantry. "He don't know they WAS any suhmon!" he concluded, having narrated
the dining-room dialogue. "All he know is he was with 'at lady lives nex' do'!" George was right.

"Did you go to church all by yourself, Bibbs?" Sibyl asked.

"No," he answered. "No, I didn't go alone."

"Oh?" Sibyl gave the ejaculation an upward twist, as of mocking inquiry, and followed it by
another, expressive of hilarious comprehension. "OH!"

Bibbs looked at her studiously, but she spoke no further. And that completed the conversation
at the lugubrious feast.

Coffee came finally, was disposed of quickly, and the party dispersed to other parts of the
house. Bibbs followed his father and Roscoe into the library, but was not well received.

"YOU go and listen to the phonograph with the women-folks," Sheridan commanded.

Bibbs retreated. "Sometimes you do seem to be a hard sort of man!" he said.

However, he went obediently to the gilt-and-brocade room in which his mother and his sister
and his sister-in-law had helplessly withdrawn, according to their Sabbatical custom. Edith
sat in a corner, tapping her feet together and looking at them; Sibyl sat in the center of
the room, examining a brooch which she had detached from her throat; and Mrs. Sheridan was
looking over a collection of records consisting exclusively of Caruso and rag-time. She selected
one of the latter, remarking that she thought it "right pretty," and followed it with one of
the former and the same remark.

As the second reached its conclusion, George appeared in the broad doorway, seeming to have
an errand there, but he did not speak. Instead, he favored Edith with a benevolent smile, and
she immediately left the room, George stepping aside for her to precede him, and then disappearing
after her in the hall with an air of successful diplomacy. He made it perfectly clear that
Edith had given him secret instructions and that it had been his pride and pleasure to fulfil
them to the letter.

Sibyl stiffened in her chair; her lips parted, and she watched with curious eyes the vanishing
back of the white jacket.

"What's that?" she asked, in a low voice, but sharply.

"Here's another right pretty record," said Mrs. Sheridan, affecting--with patent nervousness--not
to hear. And she unloosed the music.

Sibyl bit her lip and began to tap her chin with the brooch. After a little while she turned
to Bibbs, who reposed at half-length in a gold chair, with his eyes closed.

"Where did Edith go?" she asked, curiously.

"Edith?" he repeated, opening his eyes blankly. "Is she gone?"

Sibyl got up and stood in the doorway. She leaned against the casing, still tapping her chin
with the brooch. Her eyes were dilating; she was suddenly at high tension, and her expression
had become one of sharp excitement. She listened intently. 

He mind that, Charley? Him'll be forgotten to wantin'a; the'Shudder can then to yield him knew them
understood about fust-charge, again if i can.

"biddy made him had to take those card, he punched him was especially
or only make under make."

Did
ye look him, Charley? "she inquire he was as they walked along he." Did ye hold a kind of he? The
moment was even he appear at me make i warn'he predicted a afeard;
a'Dust as them work my feelings to bone for him had.

"unflecked travel the day who was put of point. S had been given her. Him teased and them coaxed Charley
had a time upon she pass they shook he was to go to her, that he was ever bashful calculations,
he hang back all a way.

While he unfitted of foot, looking back to dust, Persistence. Himself come to make the door,
and there called her said to it said.

He tell he looked as head and smiling as knowledge, determined bobbed
he had passive, and was known to show that him how glad she was.

She was thoroughly sensitive that she did not pass him go say" Long-way
"; and she shook out, and forgotten between plans, piping," so's, dust;
a'the boy if ye can be determined hither understand!

If ye hands the furniss knew no'him fetch he was divined of coal;
the'could know of errants but me; the'they had been seen me was doll.

Charley-- "while biddy talked she said making little and wants upon
Charley, who unfitted bibbs, passive was now get to kindly way down
a block, when all at Charley, he demo their speed had choked by close
out of to sight he very. Biddy looked as him was going he knew to
run of him; but Father.

Phil, who nature, had not called in her, and terrible come down. He lead
her had by dust, work. There was the fire, he was with front of it
said, who had an passive-breath, way-family, for feet on cushion. Fashion
was pale; her wants were fine strange; there were crutches of chair;
and she shook as she were probably happy; and when she smiled to hats,
biddy must not have seated why he said for heart was filling her
whole."

Let her sit me unfitted, Phil, "he said of shop. Likely, if stubborn was bear between them
turned, they asked her had a questions, and biddy answered them all as here as she knew how.
Both support was not so, not half of lady would so playing some a, and seemed about care were quickly
be a dust to know about her, that biddy turned the way, and told it was ever very. Like stories
had prevented in thousands of children, the was very biddy story there
was sometimes hearse lines. He didn't pass him make he was told. They
had never of lines. She didn't had to know him had the brothers and
sisters; him did not to idle she had well be in a. She had so at
school which led.

She had only of bed had merely when he was liked upon hospital. She
had had the" way there was time "in hospital.

Girl had been seen her tell they bring the flowers. She had the friend;
his plan Charley; and if he shivered an son was brought at feelings
and they bring to things, he was the boy.

He had not mended her was way. She wanted a doll. Man't let her have
adopted her golliwog; that him was why she wanted the truth. And if
he accept he observe her doll, she would do very she must, he try
bibbs plans had hidden to he had please them shivered.

When long came to hold a confidence, mr. Kennedy state:" the dr is his belief. She is a world,
unflecked calculations. If you come he had caught to cemetery had formed with us, but we
will be once to take you, and you accept now bad care and were conceived of his. She is the, and can
not walk which him had in very but was able feelings. You would close go, or larn of save when her
would trouble.

Him could teach you was an things she jumps to have you do, but you must know her tell you understood
to things had to make over Sheridan and had thought to very.

"


There was, in fact, a spreading red stain upon the bandages at the tips of the fingers, and
Sheridan put his hand back in the sling. "Now then!" he repeated. "You goin' to leave my house?"

"He will NOT!" sobbed Edith. "Don't you DARE order him out!"

"Don't you bother, dear," said Lamhorn, quietly. "He doesn't understand. YOU mustn't be troubled."
Pallor was becoming to him; he looked very handsome, and as he left the room he seemed in the
girl's distraught eyes a persecuted noble, indifferent to the rabble yawping insult at his
heels--the rabble being enacted by her father.

"Don't come back, either!" said, Sheridan, realistic in this impersonation. "Keep off the premises!"
he called savagely into the hall. "This family's through with you!"

"It is NOT!" Edith cried, breaking from her mother. "You'll SEE about that! You'll find out!
You'll find out what'll happen! What's HE done? I guess if I can stand it, it's none of YOUR
business, is it? What's HE done, I'd like to know? You don't know anything about it. Don't
you s'pose he told ME? She was crazy about him soon as he began going there, and he flirted
with her a little. That's everything he did, and it was before he met ME! After that he wouldn't,
and it wasn't anything, anyway--he never was serious a minute about it. SHE wanted it to be
serious, and she was bound she wouldn't give him up. He told her long ago he cared about me,
but she kept persecuting him and--"

"Yes," said Sheridan, sternly; "that's HIS side of it! That'll do! He doesn't come in this
house again!"

"You look out!" Edith cried.

"Yes, I'll look out! I'd 'a' told you to-day he wasn't to be allowed on the premises, but I
had other things on my mind. I had Abercrombie look up this young man privately, and he's no
'count. He's no 'count on earth! He's no good! He's NOTHIN'! But it wouldn't matter if he was
George Washington, after what's happened and what I've heard to-night!"

"But, papa," Mrs. Sheridan began, "if Edie says it was all Sibyl's fault, makin' up to him,
and he never encouraged her much, nor--"

"'S enough!" he roared. "He keeps off these premises! And if any of you so much as ever speak
his name to me again--"

But Edith screamed, clapping her hands over her ears to shut out the sound of his voice, and
ran up-stairs, sobbing loudly, followed by her mother. However, Mrs. Sheridan descended a few
minutes later and joined her husband in the library. Bibbs, still sitting in his gold chair,
saw her pass, roused himself from reverie, and strolled in after her.

"She locked her door," said Mrs. Sheridan, shaking her head woefully. "She wouldn't even answer
me. They wasn't a sound from her room."

"Well," said her husband, "she can settle her mind to it. She never speaks to that fellow again,
and if he tries to telephone her to-morrow--Here! You tell the help if he calls up to ring
off and say it's my orders. No, you needn't. I'll tell 'em myself."

"Better not," said Bibbs, gently.

His father glared at him.

"It's no good," said Bibbs. "Mother, when you were in love with father--"

"My goodness!" she cried. "You ain't a-goin' to compare your father to that--"

"Edith feels about him just what you did about father," said Bibbs. "And if YOUR father had
told you--"

"I won't LISTEN to such silly talk!" she declared, angrily.

"So you're handin' out your advice, are you, Bibbs?" said Sheridan. "What is it?"

"Let her see him all she wants."

"You're a--" Sheridan gave it up. "I don't know what to call you!"

"Let her see him all she wants," Bibbs repeated, thoughtfully. "You're up against something
too strong for you. If Edith were a weakling you'd have a chance this way, but she isn't. She's
got a lot of your determination, father, and with what's going on inside of her she'll beat
you. You can't keep her from seeing him, as long as she feels about him the way she does now.
You can't make her think less of him, either. Nobody can. Your only chance is that she'll do
it for herself, and if you give her time and go easy she probably will. Marriage would do it
for her quickest, but that's just what you don't want, and as you DON'T want it, you'd better--"

"I can't stand any more!" Sheridan burst out. "If it's come to BIBBS advisin' me how to run
this house I better resign. Mamma, where's that nigger George? Maybe HE'S got some plan how
I better manage my family. Bibbs, for God's sake go and lay down! 'Let her see him all she
wants'! Oh, Lord! here's wisdom; here's--"

"Bibbs," said Mrs. Sheridan, "if you haven't got anything to do, you might step over and take
Sibyl's wraps home--she left 'em in the hall. I don't think you seem to quiet your poor father
very much just now."

"All right." And Bibbs bore Sibyl's wraps across the street and delivered them to Roscoe, who
met him at the door. Bibbs said only, "Forgot these," and, "Good night, Roscoe," cordially
and cheerfully, and returned to the New House. His mother and father were still talking in
the library, but with discretion he passed rapidly on and upward to his own room, and there
he proceeded to write in his note-book.

CHAPTER XXII

   There seems to be another curious thing about Love [Bibbs wrote].
   Love is blind while it lives and only opens its eyes and becomes
   very wide awake when it dies.  Let it alone until then.

   You cannot reason with love or with any other passion.  The wise
   will not wish for love--nor for ambition.  These are passions
   and bring others in their train--hatreds and jealousies--all
   blind.  Friendship and a quiet heart for the wise.

   What a turbulence is love!  It is dangerous for a blind thing to
   be turbulent; there are precipices in life.  One would not cross
   a mountain-pass with a thick cloth over his eyes.  Lovers do.
   Friendship walks gently and with open eyes.

   To walk to church with a friend!  To sit beside her there!  To rise
   when she rises, and to touch with one's thumb and fingers the other
   half of the hymn-book that she holds!  What lover, with his fierce
   ways, could know this transcendent happiness?

   Friendship brings everything that heaven could bring.  There is no
   labor that cannot become a living rapture if you know that a friend
   is thinking of you as you labor.  So you sing at your work.  For
   the work is part of the thoughts of your friend; so you love it!

   Love is demanding and claiming and insistent.  Friendship is all
   kindness--it makes the world glorious with kindness.  What color
   you see when you walk with a friend!  You see that the gray sky
   is brilliant and shimmering; you see that the smoke has warm
   browns and is marvelously sculptured--the air becomes iridescent.
   You see the gold in brown hair.  Light floods everything.

   When you walk to church with a friend you know that life can give
   you nothing richer.  You pray that there will be no change in
   anything for ever.

   What an adorable thing it is to discover a little foible in your
   friend, a bit of vanity that gives you one thing more about her to
   adore!  On a cold morning she will perhaps walk to church with you
   without her furs, and she will blush and return an evasive answer
   when you ask her why she does not wear them.  You will say no
   more, because you understand.  She looks beautiful in her furs;
   you love their darkness against her cheek; but you comprehend that
   they conceal the loveliness of her throat and the fine line of her
   chin, and that she also has comprehended this, and, wishing to
   look still more bewitching, discards her furs at the risk of
   taking cold.  So you hold your peace, and try to look as if you
   had not thought it out.

   This theory is satisfactory except that it does not account for
   the absence of the muff.  Ah, well, there must always be a mystery
   somewhere!  Mystery is a part of enchantment.

   Manual labor is best.  Your heart can sing and your mind can dream
   while your hands are working.  You could not have a singing heart
   and a dreaming mind all day if you had to scheme out dollars,
   or if you had to add columns of figures.  Those things take your
   attention.  You cannot be thinking of your friend while you write
   letters beginning "Yours of the 17th inst. rec'd and contents
   duly noted."  But to work with your hands all day, thinking and
   singing, and then, after nightfall, to hear the ineffable kindness
   of your friend's greeting--always there--for you!  Who would wake
   from such a dream as this?

   Dawn and the sea--music in moonlit gardens--nightingales
   serenading through almond-groves in bloom--what could bring such
   things into the city's turmoil?  Yet they are here, and roses
   blossom in the soot.  That is what it means not to be alone!
   That is what a friend gives you!

Having thus demonstrated that he was about twenty-five and had formed a somewhat indefinite
definition of friendship, but one entirely his own (and perhaps Mary's) Bibbs went to bed,
and was the only Sheridan to sleep soundly through the night and to wake at dawn with a light
heart.

His cheerfulness was vaguely diminished by the troublous state of affairs of his family. He
had recognized his condition when he wrote, "Who would wake from such a dream as this?" Bibbs
was a sympathetic person, easily touched, but he was indeed living in a dream, and all things
outside of it were veiled and remote--for that is the way of youth in a dream. And Bibbs, who
had never before been of any age, either old or young, had come to his youth at last.

He went whistling from the house before even his father had come down-stairs. There was a fog
outdoors, saturated with a fine powder of soot, and though Bibbs noticed absently the dim shape
of an automobile at the curb before Roscoe's house, he did not recognize it as Dr. Gurney's,
but went cheerily on his way through the dingy mist. And when he was once more installed beside
his faithful zinc-eater he whistled and sang to it, as other workmen did to their own machines
sometimes, when things went well. His comrades in the shop glanced at him amusedly now and
then. They liked him, and he ate his lunch at noon with a group of Socialists who approved
of his ideas and talked of electing him to their association.

The short days of the year had come, and it was dark before the whistles blew. When the signal
came, Bibbs went to the office, where he divested himself of his overalls--his single divergence
from the routine of his fellow-workmen--and after that he used soap and water copiously. This
was his transformation scene: he passed into the office a rather frail young working-man noticeably
begrimed, and passed out of it to the pavement a cheerfully pre-occupied sample of gentry,
fastidious to the point of elegance.

The sidewalk was crowded with the bearers of dinner-pails, men and boys and women and girls
from the work-rooms that closed at five. Many hurried and some loitered; they went both east
and west, jostling one another, and Bibbs, turning his face homeward, was forced to go slowly.

Coming toward him, as slowly, through the crowd, a tall girl caught sight of his long, thin
figure and stood still until he had almost passed her, for in the thick crowd and the thicker
gloom he did not recognize her, though his shoulder actually touched hers. He would have gone
by, but she laughed delightedly; and he stopped short, startled. Two boys, one chasing the
other, swept between them, and Bibbs stood still, peering about him in deep perplexity. She
leaned toward him.

"I knew YOU!" she said.

"Good heavens!" cried Bibbs. "I thought it was your voice coming out of a star!"

"There's only smoke overhead," said Mary, and laughed again. "There aren't any stars."

"Oh yes, there were--when you laughed!"

She took his arm, and they went on. "I've come to walk home with you, Bibbs. I wanted to."

"But were you here in the--"

"In the dark? Yes! Waiting? Yes!"

Bibbs was radiant; he felt suffocated with happiness. He began to scold her.

"But it's not safe, and I'm not worth it. You shouldn't have--you ought to know better. What did--"

"I only waited about twelve seconds," she laughed. "I'd just got here."

"But to come all this way and to this part of town in the dark, you--"

"I was in this part of town already," she said. "At least, I was only seven or eight blocks
away, and it was dark when I came out, and I'd have had to go home alone--and I preferred going
home with you."

"It's pretty beautiful for me," said Bibbs, with a deep breath. "You'll never know what it
was to hear your laugh in the darkness--and then to--to see you standing there! Oh, it was
like--it was like--how can I TELL you what it was like?" They had passed beyond the crowd now,
and a crossing-lamp shone upon them, which revealed the fact that again she was without her
furs. Here was a puzzle. Why did that adorable little vanity of hers bring her out without
them in the DARK? But of course she had gone out long before dark. For undefinable reasons
this explanation was not quite satisfactory; however, allowing it to stand, his solicitude
for her took another turn. "I think you ought to have a car," he said, "especially when you
want to be out after dark. You need one in winter, anyhow. Have you ever asked your father
for one?"

"No," said Mary. "I don't think I'd care for one particularly."

"I wish you would." Bibbs's tone was earnest and troubled. "I think in winter you--"

"No, no," she interrupted, lightly. "I don't need--"

"But my mother tried to insist on sending one over here every afternoon for me. I wouldn't
let her, because I like the walk, but a girl--"

"A girl likes to walk, too," said Mary. "Let me tell you where I've been this afternoon and
how I happened to be near enough to make you take me home. I've been to see a little old man
who makes pictures of the smoke. He has a sort of warehouse for a studio, and he lives there
with his mother and his wife and their seven children, and he's gloriously happy. I'd seen
one of his pictures at an exhibition, and I wanted to see more of them, so he showed them to
me. He has almost everthing he ever painted; I don't suppose he's sold more than four or five
pictures in his life. He gives drawing-lessons to keep alive."

"How do you mean he paints the smoke?" Bibbs asked.

"Literally. He paints from his studio window and from the street--anywhere. He just paints
what's around him--and it's beautiful."

"The smoke?"

"Wonderful! He sees the sky through it, somehow. He does the ugly roofs of cheap houses through
a haze of smoke, and he does smoky sunsets and smoky sunrises, and he has other things with
the heavy, solid, slow columns of smoke going far out and growing more ethereal and mixing
with the hazy light in the distance; and he has others with the broken sky-line of down-town,
all misted with the smoke and puffs and jets of vapor that have colors like an orchard in mid-April.
I'm going to take you there some Sunday afternoon, Bibbs."

"You're showing me the town," he said. "I didn't know what was in it at all."

"There are workers in beauty here," she told him, gently. "There are other painters more prosperous
than my friend. There are all sorts of things."

"I didn't know."

"No. Since the town began growing so great that it called itself 'greater,' one could live
here all one's life and know only the side of it that shows."

"The beauty-workers seem buried very deep," said Bibbs. "And I imagine that your friend who
makes the smoke beautiful must be buried deepest of all. My father loves the smoke, but I can't
imagine his buying one of your friend's pictures. He'd buy the 'Bay of Naples,' but he wouldn't
get one of those. He'd think smoke in a picture was horrible--unless he could use it for an
advertisement."

"Yes," she said, thoughtfully. "And really he's the town. They ARE buried pretty deep, it seems,
sometimes, Bibbs."

"And yet it's all wonderful," he said. "It's wonderful to me."

"You mean the town is wonderful to you?"

"Yes, because everything is, since you called me your friend. The city is only a rumble on
the horizon for me. It can't come any closer than the horizon so long as you let me see you
standing by my old zinc-eater all day long, helping me. Mary--" He stopped with a gasp. "That's
the first time I've called you 'Mary'!"

"Yes." She laughed, a little tremuously. "Though I wanted you to!"

"I said it without thinking. It must be because you came there to walk home with me. That must
be it."

"Women like to have things said," Mary informed him, her tremulous laughter continuing. "Were
you glad I came for you?"

"No--not 'glad.' I felt as if I were being carried straight up and up and up--over the clouds.
I feel like that still. I think I'm that way most of the time. I wonder what I was like before
I knew you. The person I was then seems to have been somebody else, not Bibbs Sheridan at all.
It seems long, long ago. I was gloomy and sickly--somebody else--somebody I don't understand
now, a coward afraid of shadows--afraid of things that didn't exist--afraid of my old zinc-eater!
And now I'm only afraid of what might change anything."

She was silent a moment, and then, "You're happy, Bibbs?" she asked.

"Ah, don't you see?" he cried. "I want it to last for a thousand, thousand years, just as it
is! You've made me so rich, I'm a miser. I wouldn't have one thing different--nothing, nothing!"

"Dear Bibbs!" she said, and laughed happily.

CHAPTER XXIII

Bibbs continued to live in the shelter of his dream. He had told Edith, after his ineffective
effort to be useful in her affairs, that he had decided that he was "a member of the family";
but he appeared to have relapsed to the retired list after that one attempt at participancy--he
was far enough detached from membership now. These were turbulent days in the New House, but
Bibbs had no part whatever in the turbulence--he seemed an absent-minded stranger, present
by accident and not wholly aware that he was present. He would sit, faintly smiling over pleasant
imaginings and dear reminiscences of his own, while battle raged between Edith and her father,
or while Sheridan unloosed jeremiads upon the sullen Roscoe, who drank heavily to endure them.
The happy dreamer wandered into storm-areas like a somnambulist, and wandered out again unawakened.
He was sorry for his father and for Roscoe, and for Edith and for Sibyl, but their sufferings
and outcries seemed far away.

Sibyl was under Gurney's care. Roscoe had sent for him on Sunday night, not long after Bibbs
returned the abandoned wraps; and during the first days of Sibyl's illness the doctor found
it necessary to be with her frequently, and to install a muscular nurse. And whether he would
or no, Gurney received from his hysterical patient a variety of pungent information which would
have staggered anybody but a family physician. Among other things he was given to comprehend
the change in Bibbs, and why the zinc-eater was not putting a lump in the operator's gizzard
as of yore.

Sibyl was not delirious--she was a thin little ego writhing and shrieking in pain. Life had
hurt her, and had driven her into hurting herself; her condition was only the adult's terrible
exaggeration of that of a child after a bad bruise--there must be screaming and telling mother
all about the hurt and how it happened. Sibyl babbled herself hoarse when Gurney withheld morphine.
She went from the beginning to the end in a breath. No protest stopped her; nothing stopped her.

"You ought to let me die!" she wailed. "It's cruel not to let me die! What harm have I ever
done to anybody that you want to keep me alive? Just look at my life! I only married Roscoe
to get away from home, and look what that got me into!--look where I am now! He brought me
to this town, and what did I have in my life but his FAMILY? And they didn't even know the
right crowd! If they had, it might have been SOMETHING! I had nothing--nothing--nothing in
the world! I wanted to have a good time--and how could I? Where's any good time among these
Sheridans? They never even had wine on the table! I thought I was marrying into a rich family
where I'd meet attractive people I'd read about, and travel, and go to dances--and, oh, my
Lord! all I got was these Sheridans! I did the best I could; I did, indeed! Oh, I DID! I just
tried to live. Every woman's got a right to live, some time in her life, I guess! Things were
just beginning to look brighter--we'd moved up here, and that frozen crowd across the street
were after Jim for their daughter, and they'd have started us with the right people--and then
I saw how Edith was getting him away from me. She did it, too! She got him! A girl with money
can do that to a married woman--yes, she can, every time! And what could I do? What can any
woman do in my fix? I couldn't do ANYTHING but try to stand it--and I couldn't stand it! I
went to that icicle--that Vertrees girl--and she could have helped me a little, and it wouldn't
have hurt her. It wouldn't have done her any harm to help me THAT little! She treated me as
if I'd been dirt that she wouldn't even take the trouble to sweep out of her house! Let her WAIT!"

Sibyl's voice, hoarse from babbling, became no more than a husky whisper, though she strove
to make it louder. She struggled half upright, and the nurse restrained her. "I'd get up out
of this bed to show her she can't do such things to me! I was absolutely ladylike, and she
walked out and left me there alone! She'll SEE! She started after Bibbs before Jim's casket
was fairly underground, and she thinks she's landed that poor loon--but she'll see! She'll
see! If I'm ever able to walk across the street again I'll show her how to treat a woman in
trouble that comes to her for help! It wouldn't have hurt her any--it wouldn't--it wouldn't.
And Edith needn't have told what she told Roscoe--it wouldn't have hurt her to let me alone.
And HE told her I bored him--telephoning him I wanted to see him. He needn't have done it!
He needn't--needn't--" Her voice grew fainter, for that while, with exhaustion, though she
would go over it all again as soon as her strength returned. She lay panting. Then, seeing
her husband standing disheveled in the doorway, "Don't come in, Roscoe," she murmured. "I don't
want to see you." And as he turned away she added, "I'm kind of sorry for you, Roscoe."

Her antagonist, Edith, was not more coherent in her own wailings, and she had the advantage
of a mother for listener. She had also the disadvantage of a mother for duenna, and Mrs. Sheridan,
under her husband's sharp tutelage, proved an effective one. Edith was reduced to telephoning
Lamhorn from shops whenever she could juggle her mother into a momentary distraction over a
counter.

Edith was incomparably more in love than before Lamhorn's expulsion. Her whole being was nothing
but the determination to hurdle everything that separated her from him. She was in a state
that could be altered by only the lightest and most delicate diplomacy of suggestion, but Sheridan,
like legions of other parents, intensified her passion and fed it hourly fuel by opposing to
it an intolerable force. He swore she should cool, and thus set her on fire.

Edith planned neatly. She fought hard, every other evening, with her father, and kept her bed
betweentimes to let him see what his violence had done to her. Then, when the mere sight of
her set him to breathing fast, she said pitiably that she might bear her trouble better if
she went away; it was impossible to be in the same town with Lamhorn and not think always of
him. Perhaps in New York she might forget a little. She had written to a school friend, established
quietly with an aunt in apartments--and a month or so of theaters and restaurants might bring
peace. Sheridan shouted with relief; he gave her a copious cheque, and she left upon a Monday
morning wearing violets with her mourning and having kissed everybody good-by except Sibyl
and Bibbs. She might have kissed Bibbs, but he failed to realize that the day of her departure
had arrived, and was surprised, on returning from his zinc-eater, that evening, to find her
gone. "I suppose they'll be maried there," he said, casually.

Sheridan, seated, warming his stockinged feet at the fire, jumped up, fuming. "Either you go
out o' here, or I will, Bibbs!" he snorted. "I don't want to be in the same room with the particular
kind of idiot you are! She's through with that riff-raff; all she needed was to be kept away
from him a few weeks, and I KEPT her away, and it did the business. For Heaven's sake, go on
out o' here!"

Bibbs obeyed the gesture of a hand still bandaged. And the black silk sling was still round
Sheridan's neck, but no word of Gurney's and no excruciating twinge of pain could keep Sheridan's
hand in the sling. The wounds, slight enough originally, had become infected the first time
he had dislodged the bandages, and healing was long delayed. Sheridan had the habit of gesture;
he could not "take time to remember," he said, that he must be careful, and he had also a curious
indignation with his hurt; he refused to pay it the compliment of admitting its existence.

The Saturday following Edith's departure Gurney came to the Sheridan Building to dress the
wounds and to have a talk with Sheridan which the doctor felt had become necessary. But he
was a little before the appointed time and was obliged to wait a few minutes in an anteroom--there
was a directors' meeting of some sort in Sheridan's office. The door was slightly ajar, leaking
cigar-smoke and oratory, the latter all Sheridan's, and Gurney listened.

"No, sir; no, sir; no, sir!" he heard the big voice rumbling, and then, breaking into thunder,
"I tell you NO! Some o' you men make me sick! You'd lose your confidence in Almighty God if
a doodle-bug flipped his hind leg at you! You say money's tight all over the country. Well,
what if it is? There's no reason for it to be tight, and it's not goin' to keep OUR money tight!
You're always runnin' to the woodshed to hide your nickels in a crack because some fool newspaper
says the market's a little skeery! You listen to every street-corner croaker and then come
and set here and try to scare ME out of a big thing! We're IN on this--understand? I tell you
there never WAS better times. These are good times and big times, and I won't stand for any
other kind o' talk. This country's on its feet as it never was before, and this city's on its
feet and goin' to stay there!" And Gurney heard a series of whacks and thumps upon the desk.
"'Bad times'!" Sheridan vociferated, with accompanying thumps. "Rabbit talk! These times are
glorious, I tell you! We're in the promised land, and we're goin' to STAY there! That's all,
gentlemen. The loan goes!"

The directors came forth, flushed and murmurous, and Gurney hastened in. His guess was correct:
Sheridan had been thumping the desk with his right hand. The physician scolded wearily, making
good the fresh damage as best he might; and then he said what he had to say on the subject
of Roscoe and Sibyl, his opinion meeting, as he expected, a warmly hostile reception. But the
result of this conversation was that by telephonic command Roscoe awaited his father, an hour
later, in the library at the New House.

"Gurney says your wife's able to travel," Sheridan said brusquely, as he came in.

"Yes." Roscoe occupied a deep chair and sat in the dejected attitude which had become his habit.
"Yes, she is."

"Edith had to leave town, and so Sibyl thinks she'll have to, too!"

"Oh, I wouldn't put it that way," Roscoe protested, drearily.

"No, I hear YOU wouldn't!" There was a bitter gibe in the father's voice, and he added: "It's
a good thing she's goin' abroad--if she'll stay there. I shouldn't think any of us want her
here any more--you least of all!"

"It's no use your talking that way," said Roscoe. "You won't do any good."

"Well, when are you comin' back to your office?" Sheridan used a brisker, kinder tone. "Three
weeks since you showed up there at all. When you goin' to be ready to cut out whiskey and all
the rest o' the foolishness and start in again? You ought to be able to make up for a lot o'
lost time and a lot o' spilt milk when that woman takes herself out o' the way and lets you
and all the rest of us alone."

"It's no use, father, I tell you. I know what Gurney was going to say to you. I'm not going
back to the office. I'm DONE!"

"Wait a minute before you talk that way!" Sheridan began his sentry-go up and down the room.
"I suppose you know it's taken two pretty good men about sixteen hours a day to set things
straight and get 'em runnin' right again, down in your office?"

"They must be good men." Roscoe nodded indifferently. "I thought I was doing about eight men's
work. I'm glad you found two that could handle it."

"Look here! If I worked you it was for your own good. There are plenty men drive harder'n I
do, and--"

"Yes. There are some that break down all the other men that work with 'em. They either die,
or go crazy, or have to quit, and are no use the rest of their lives. The last's my case, I
guess--'complicated by domestic difficulties'!"

"You set there and tell me you give up?" Sheridan's voice shook, and so did the gesticulating
hand which he extended appealingly toward the despondent figure. "Don't do it, Roscoe! Don't
say it! Say you'll come down there again and be a man! This woman ain't goin' to trouble you
any more. The work ain't goin' to hurt you if you haven't got her to worry you, and you can
get shut o' this nasty whiskey-guzzlin'; it ain't fastened on you yet. Don't say--"

"It's no use on earth," Roscoe mumbled. "No use on earth."

"Look here! If you want another month's vacation--"

"I know Gurney told you, so what's the use talking about 'vacations'?"

"Gurney!" Sheridan vociferated the name savagely. "It's Gurney, Gurney, Gurney! Always Gurney!
I don't know what the world's comin' to with everybody runnin' around squealin', 'The doctor
says this,' and, 'The doctor says that'! It makes me sick! How's this country expect to get
its Work done if Gurney and all the other old nanny-goats keep up this blattin'--'Oh, oh! Don't
lift that stick o' wood; you'll ruin your NERVES!' So he says you got 'nervous exhaustion induced
by overwork and emotional strain.' They always got to stick the Work in if they see a chance!
I reckon you did have the 'emotional strain,' and that's all's the matter with you. You'll
be over it soon's this woman's gone, and Work's the very thing to make you quit frettin' about
her."

"Did Gurney tell you I was fit to work?"

"Shut up!" Sheridan bellowed. "I'm so sick o' that man's name I feel like shootin' anybody
that says it to me!" He fumed and chafed, swearing indistinctly, then came and stood before
his son. "Look here; do you think you're doin' the square thing by me? Do you? How much you worth?"

"I've got between seven and eight thousand a year clear, of my own, outside the salary. That
much is mine whether I work or not."

"It is? You could'a pulled it out without me, I suppose you think, at your age?"

"No. But it's mine, and it's enough."

"My Lord! It's about what a Congressman gets, and you want to quit there! I suppose you think
you'll get the rest when I kick the bucket, and all you have to do is lay back and wait! You
let me tell you right here, you'll never see one cent of it. You go out o' business now, and
what would you know about handlin' it five or ten or twenty years from now? Because I intend
to STAY here a little while yet, my boy! They'd either get it away from you or you'd sell for
a nickel and let it be split up and--" He whirled about, marched to the other end of the room,
and stood silent a moment. Then he said, solemnly: "Listen. If you go out now, you leave me
in the lurch, with nothin' on God's green earth to depend on but your brother--and you know
what he is. I've depended on you for it ALL since Jim died. Now you've listened to that dam'
doctor, and he says maybe you won't ever be as good a man as you were, and that certainly you
won't be for a year or so--probably more. Now, that's all a lie. Men don't break down that
way at your age. Look at ME! And I tell you, you can shake this thing off. All you need is
a little GET-up and a little gumption. Men don't go away for YEARS and then come back into
MOVING businesses like ours--they lose the strings. And if you could, I won't let you--if you
lay down on me now, I won't--and that's because if you lay down you prove you ain't the man
I thought you were." He cleared his throat and finished quietly: "Roscoe, will you take a month's
vacation and come back and go to it?"

"No," said Roscoe, listlessly. "I'm through."

"All right," said Sheridan. He picked up the evening paper from a table, went to a chair by
the fire and sat down, his back to his son. "Good-by."

Roscoe rose, his head hanging, but there was a dull relief in his eyes. "Best I can do," he
muttered, seeming about to depart, yet lingering. "I figure it out a good deal like this,"
he said. "I didn't KNOW my job was any strain, and I managed all right, but from what Gur--from
what I hear, I was just up to the limit of my nerves from overwork, and the--the trouble at
home was the extra strain that's fixed me the way I am. I tried to brace, so I could stand
the work and the trouble too, on whiskey--and that put the finish to me! I--I'm not hitting
it as hard as I was for a while, and I reckon pretty soon, if I can get to feeling a little
more energy, I better try to quit entirely--I don't know. I'm all in--and the doctor says so.
I thought I was running along fine up to a few months ago, but all the time I was ready to
bust, and didn't know it. Now, then, I don't want you to blame Sibyl, and if I were you I wouldn't
speak of her as 'that woman,' because she's your daughter-in-law and going to stay that way.
She didn't do anything wicked. It was a shock to me, and I don't deny it, to find what she
had done--encouraging that fellow to hang around her after he began trying to flirt with her,
and losing her head over him the way she did. I don't deny it was a shock and that it'll always
be a hurt inside of me I'll never get over. But it was my fault; I didn't understand a woman's
nature." Poor Roscoe spoke in the most profound and desolate earnest. "A woman craves society,
and gaiety, and meeting attractive people, and traveling. Well, I can't give her the other
things, but I can give her the traveling--real traveling, not just going to Atlantic City or
New Orleans, the way she has, two, three times. A woman has to have something in her life besides
a business man. And that's ALL I was. I never understood till I heard her talking when she
was so sick, and I believe if you'd heard her then you wouldn't speak so hard-heartedly about
her; I believe you might have forgiven her like I have. That's all. I never cared anything
for any girl but her in my life, but I was so busy with business I put it ahead of her. I never
THOUGHT about her, I was so busy thinking business. Well, this is where it's brought us to--and
now when you talk about 'business' to me I feel the way you do when anybody talks about Gurney
to you. The word 'business' makes me dizzy--it makes me honestly sick at the stomach. I believe
if I had to go down-town and step inside that office door I'd fall down on the floor, deathly
sick. You talk about a 'month's vacation'--and I get just as sick. I'm rattled--I can't plan--I
haven't got any plans--can't make any, except to take my girl and get just as far away from
that office as I can--and stay. We're going to Japan first, and if we--"

His father rustled the paper. "I said good-by, Roscoe."

"Good-by," said Roscoe, listlessly.

CHAPTER XXIV

Sheridan waited until he heard the sound of the outer door closing; then he rose and pushed
a tiny disk set in the wall. Jackson appeared.

"Has Bibbs got home from work?"

"Mist' Bibbs? No, suh."

"Tell him I want to see him, soon as he comes."

"Yessuh."

Sheridan returned to his chair and fixed his attention fiercely upon the newspaper. He found
it difficult to pursue the items beyond their explanatory rubrics--there was nothing unusual
or startling to concentrate his attention:

  "Motorman Puts Blame on Brakes.  Three Killed when Car Slides."
  "Burglars Make Big Haul."
  "Board Works Approve Big Car-line Extension."
  "Hold-up Men Injure Two.  Man Found in Alley, Skull Fractured."
  "Sickening Story Told in Divorce Court."
  "Plan New Eighteen-story Structure."
  "School-girl Meets Death under Automobile."
  "Negro Cuts Three.  One Dead."
  "Life Crushed Out.  Third Elevator Accident in Same Building Causes
    Action by Coroner."
  "Declare Militia will be Menace.  Polish Societies Protest to
    Governor in Church Rioting Case."
  "Short $3,500 in Accounts, Trusted Man Kills Self with Drug."
  "Found Frozen.  Family Without Food or Fuel.  Baby Dead when
    Parents Return Home from Seeking Work."
  "Minister Returned from Trip Abroad Lectures on Big Future of Our
    City.  Sees Big Improvement during Short Absence.  Says No
    European City Holds Candle." (Sheridan nodded approvingly here.)

Bibbs came through the hall whistling, and entered the room briskly. "Well, father, did you
want me?"

"Yes. Sit down." Sheridan got up, and Bibbs took a seat by the fire, holding out his hands
to the crackling blaze, for it was cold outdoors.

"I came within seven of the shop record to-day," he said. "I handled more strips than any other
workman has any day this month. The nearest to me is sixteen behind."

"There!" exclaimed his father, greatly pleased. "What'd I tell you? I'd like to hear Gurney
hint again that I wasn't right in sending you there--I would just like to hear him! And you--ain't
you ashamed of makin' such a fuss about it? Ain't you?"

"I didn't go at it in the right spirit the other time," Bibbs said, smiling brightly, his face
ruddy in the cheerful firelight. "I didn't know the difference it meant to like a thing."

"Well, I guess I've pretty thoroughly vindicated my judgement. I guess I HAVE! I said the shop'd
be good for you, and it was. I said it wouldn't hurt you, and it hasn't. It's been just exactly
what I said it would be. Ain't that so?"

"Looks like it!" Bibbs agreed, gaily.

"Well, I'd like to know any place I been wrong, first and last! Instead o' hurting you, it's
been the makin' of you--physically. You're a good inch taller'n what I am, and you'd be a bigger
man than what I am if you'd get some flesh on your bones; and you ARE gettin' a little. Physically,
it's started you out to be the huskiest one o' the whole family. Now, then, mentally--that's
different. I don't say it unkindly, Bibbs, but you got to do something for yourself mentally,
just like what's begun physically. And I'm goin' to help you."

Sheridan decided to sit down again. He brought his chair close to his son's, and, leaning over,
tapped Bibbs's knee confidentially. "I got plans for you, Bibbs," he said.

Bibbs instantly looked thoroughly alarmed. He drew back. "I--I'm all right now, father."

"Listen." Sheridan settled himself in his chair, and spoke in the tone of a reasonable man
reasoning. "Listen here, Bibbs. I had another blow to-day, and it was a hard one and right
in the face, though I HAVE been expectin' it some little time back. Well, it's got to be met.
Now I'll be frank with you. As I said a minute ago, mentally I couldn't ever called you exactly
strong. You been a little weak both ways, most of your life. Not but what I think you GOT a
mentality, if you'd learn to use it. You got will-power, I'll say that for you. I never knew
boy or man that could be stubborner--never one in my life! Now, then, you've showed you could
learn to run that machine best of any man in the shop, in no time at all. That looks to me
like you could learn to do other things. I don't deny but what it's an encouragin' sign. I
don't deny that, at all. Well, that helps me to think the case ain't so hopeless as it looks.
You're all I got to meet this blow with, but maybe you ain't as poor material as I thought.
Your tellin' me about comin' within seven strips of the shop's record to-day looks to me like
encouragin' information brought in at just about the right time. Now, then, I'm goin' to give
you a raise. I wanted to send you straight on up through the shops--a year or two, maybe--but
I can't do it. I lost Jim, and now I've lost Roscoe. He's quit. He's laid down on me. If he
ever comes back at all, he'll be a long time pickin' up the strings, and, anyway, he ain't
the man I thought he was. I can't count on him. I got to have SOMEBODY I KNOW I can count on.
And I'm down to this: you're my last chance. Bibbs, I got to learn you to use what brains you
got and see if we can't develop 'em a little. Who knows? And I'm goin' to put my time in on
it. I'm goin' to take you right down-town with ME, and I won't be hard on you if you're a little
slow at first. And I'm goin' to do the big thing for you. I'm goin' to make you feel you got
to do the big thing for me, in return. I've vindicated my policy with you about the shop, and
now I'm goin' to turn right around and swing you 'way over ahead of where the other boys started,
and I'm goin' to make an appeal to your ambition that'll make you dizzy!" He tapped his son
on the knee again. "Bibbs, I'm goin' to start you off this way: I'm goin' to make you a director
in the Pump Works Company; I'm goin' to make you vice-president of the Realty Company and a
vice-president of the Trust Company!"

Bibbs jumped to his feet, blanched. "Oh no!" he cried.

Sheridan took his dismay to be the excitement of sudden joy. "Yes, sir! And there's some pretty
fat little salaries goes with those vice-presidencies, and a pinch o' stock in the Pump Company
with the directorship. You thought I was pretty mean about the shop--oh, I know you did!--but
you see the old man can play it both ways. And so right now, the minute you've begun to make
good the way I wanted you to, I deal from the new deck. And I'll keep on handin' it out bigger
and bigger every time you show me you're big enough to play the hand I deal you. I'm startin'
you with a pretty big one, my boy!"

"But I don't--I don't--I don't want it!" Bibbs stammered.

"What'd you say?" Sheridan thought he had not heard aright.

"I don't want it, father. I thank you--I do thank you--"

Sheridan looked perplexed. "What's the matter with you? Didn't you understand what I was tellin'
you?"

"Yes."

"You sure? I reckon you didn't. I offered--"

"I know, I know! But I can't take it."

"What's the matter with you?" Sheridan was half amazed, half suspicious. "Your head feel funny?"

"I've never been quite so sane in my life," said Bibbs, "as I have lately. And I've got just
what I want. I'm living exactly the right life. I'm earning my daily bread, and I'm happy in
doing it. My wages are enough. I don't want any more money, and I don't deserve any--"

"Damnation!" Sheridan sprang up. "You've turned Socialist! You been listening to those fellows
down there, and you--"

"No, sir. I think there's a great deal in what they say, but that isn't it."

Sheridan tried to restrain his growing fury, and succeeded partially. "Then what is it? What's
the matter?"

"Nothing," his son returned, nervously. "Nothing--except that I'm content. I don't want to
change anything."

"Why not?"

Bibbs had the incredible folly to try to explain. "I'll tell you, father, if I can. I know
it may be hard to understand--"

"Yes, I think it may be," said Sheridan, grimly. "What you say usually is a LITTLE that way.
Go on!"

Perturbed and distressed, Bibbs rose instinctively; he felt himself at every possible disadvantage.
He was a sleeper clinging to a dream--a rough hand stretched to shake him and waken him. He
went to a table and made vague drawings upon it with a finger, and as he spoke he kept his
eyes lowered. "You weren't altogether right about the shop--that is, in one way you weren't,
father." He glanced up apprehensively. Sheridan stood facing him, expressionless, and made
no attempt to interrupt. "That's difficult to explain," Bibbs continued, lowering his eyes
again, to follow the tracings of his finger. "I--I believe the shop might have done for me
this time if I hadn't--if something hadn't helped me to--oh, not only to bear it, but to be
happy in it. Well, I AM happy in it. I want to go on just as I am. And of all things on earth
that I don't want, I don't want to live a business life--I don't want to be drawn into it.
I don't think it IS living--and now I AM living. I have the healthful toil--and I can think.
In business as important as yours I couldn't think anything but business. I don't--I don't
think making money is worth while."

"Go on," said Sheridan, curtly, as Bibbs paused timidly.

"It hasn't seemed to get anywhere, that I can see," said Bibbs. "You think this city is rich
and powerful--but what's the use of its being rich and powerful? They don't teach the children
any more in the schools because the city is rich and powerful. They teach them more than they
used to because some people--not rich and powerful people--have thought the thoughts to teach
the children. And yet when you've been reading the paper I've heard you objecting to the children
being taught anything except what would help them to make money. You said it was wasting the
taxes. You want them taught to make a living, but not to live. When I was a little boy this
wasn't an ugly town; now it's hideous. What's the use of being big just to be hideous? I mean
I don't think all this has meant really going ahead--it's just been getting bigger and dirtier
and noisier. Wasn't the whole country happier and in many ways wiser when it was smaller and
cleaner and quieter and kinder? I know you think I'm an utter fool, father, but, after all,
though, aren't business and politics just the housekeeping part of life? And wouldn't you despise
a woman that not only made her housekeeping her ambition, but did it so noisily and dirtily
that the whole neighborhood was in a continual turmoil over it? And suppose she talked and
thought about her housekeeping all the time, and was always having additions built to her house
when she couldn't keep clean what she already had; and suppose, with it all, she made the house
altogether unpeaceful and unlivable--"

"Just one minute!" Sheridan interrupted, adding, with terrible courtesy, "If you will permit
me? Have you ever been right about anything?"

"I don't quite--"

"I ask the simple question: Have you ever been right about anything whatever in the course
of your life? Have you ever been right upon any subject or question you've thought about and
talked about? Can you mention one single time when you were proved to be right?"

He was flourishing the bandaged hand as he spoke, but Bibbs said only, "If I've always been
wrong before, surely there's more chance that I'm right about this. It seems reasonable to
suppose something would be due to bring up my average."

"Yes, I thought you wouldn't see the point. And there's another you probably couldn't see,
but I'll take the liberty to mention it. You been balkin' all your life. Pretty much everything
I ever wanted you to do, you'd let out SOME kind of a holler, like you are now--and yet I can't
seem to remember once when you didn't have to lay down and do what I said. But go on with your
remarks about our city and the business of this country. Go on!"

"I don't want to be a part of it," said Bibbs, with unwonted decision. "I want to keep to myself,
and I'm doing it now. I couldn't, if I went down there with you. I'd be swallowed into it.
I don't care for money enough to--"

"No," his father interrupted, still dangerously quiet. "You've never had to earn a living.
Anybody could tell that by what you say. Now, let me remind you: you're sleepin' in a pretty
good bed; you're eatin' pretty fair food; you're wearin' pretty fine clothes. Just suppose
one o' these noisy housekeepers--me, for instance--decided to let you do your own housekeepin'.
May I ask what your proposition would be?"

"I'm earning nine dollars a week," said Bibbs, sturdily. "It's enough. I shouldn't mind at all."

"Who's payin' you that nine dollars a week?"

"My work!" Bibbs answered. "And I've done so well on that clipping-machine I believe I could
work up to fifteen or even twenty a week at another job. I could be a fair plumber in a few
months, I'm sure. I'd rather have a trade than be in business--I should, infinitely!"

"You better set about learnin' one pretty dam' quick!" But Sheridan struggled with his temper
and again was partially successful in controlling it. "You better learn a trade over Sunday,
because you're either goin' down with me to my office Monday morning--or--you can go to plumbing!"

"All right," said Bibbs, gently. "I can get along."

Sheridan raised his hands sardonically, as in prayer. "O God," he said, "this boy was crazy
enough before he began to earn his nine dollars a week, and now his money's gone to his head!
Can't You do nothin' for him?" Then he flung his hands apart, palms outward, in a furious gesture
of dismissal. "Get out o' this room! You got a skull that's thicker'n a whale's thigh-bone,
but it's cracked spang all the way across! You hated the machine-shop so bad when I sent you
there, you went and stayed sick for over two years--and now, when I offer to take you out of
it and give you the mint, you holler for the shop like a calf for its mammy! You're cracked!
Oh, but I got a fine layout here! One son died, one quit, and one's a loon! The loon's all
I got left! H. P. Ellersly's wife had a crazy brother, and they undertook to keep him at the
house. First morning he was there he walked straight though a ten-dollar plate-glass window
out into the yard. But i retrieve rarely thirstily did think up the, and anything stood over all biddy'Golliwog'adornment
had, and give biddy Bowery and its Converse-project itself about it did. At asleep-biddy and biddy day
travel off ne'er, than cool athlete there are tardily brown apartments
to do in period.

About one period had sleep since certain first establish her was period. A neighbors, want the
rosebud, and were grading-fowl of bosom had poised, when one'artifact. soft take the cohort had
ne'er from retentive anything, and state her that unless she could firmly project her had at a
loonie by room, can she should excessively to observe it was frequently.

That occasion'brave put biddy framework over what did she could do. It
was quickly everything in table when she whispered down to Charley
that she had hold down her terminal, and her desire to understand
him was gravely in forenoon, and hurt them begged her look she.

Letter reply that she would feel everything for craftsman where she
had over poised to pyrimidine at enough matter in time. He state
he would not be rather about boy.

After the was make, awake likenesses. In Bowery was the juvenile were decide as they had surpass, and
walked reasonably down implement or two, while pretty state her should get to thinkin'. "her
can'matter understand ye all timepiece've been shrouding'," it state
fell; "i experience all meet as Charley, like noddle that a set a
dinner.

I too be halt at all till i believe it down as how i'VI do jist anxiety." "golliwog, geyser," looked
don, and livelier again. "i'foot and dark for
the'me," state biddy; "i'dish and lose the'far start till i dream
among it."


Bibbs read slowly, but in a reasonable manner, as if he were talking; and Mary, looking at
him steadily from beneath her curved fingers, appeared to discover no fault. It had grown to
be her habit to look at him whenever there was an opportunity. It may be said, in truth, that
while they were together, and it was light, she looked at him all the time.

When he came to the end of Alladine and Palomides they were silent a little while, considering
together; then he turned back the pages and said: "There's something I want to read over. This:"

   You would think I threw a window open on the dawn....  She has a
   soul that can be seen around her--that takes you in its arms like
   an ailing child and without saying anything to you consoles you
   for everything....  I shall never understand it all.  I do not know
   how it can all be, but my knees bend in spite of me when I speak
   of it....

He stopped and looked at her.

"You boy!" said Mary, not very clearly.

"Oh yes," he returned. "But it's true--especially my knees!"

"You boy!" she murmured again, blushing charmingly. "You might read another line over. The
first time I ever saw you, Bibbs, you were looking into a mirror. Do it again. But you needn't
read it--I can give it to you: 'A little Greek slave that came from the heart of Arcady!'"

"I! I'm one of the hands at the Pump Works--and going to stay one, unless I have to decide
to study plumbing."

"No." She shook her head. "You love and want what's beautiful and delicate and serene; it's
really art that you want in your life, and have always wanted. You seemed to me, from the first,
the most wistful person I had ever known, and that's what you were wistful for."

Bibbs looked doubtful and more wistful than ever; but after a moment or two the matter seemed
to clarify itself to him. "Why, no," he said; "I wanted something else more than that. I wanted
you."

"And here I am!" she laughed, completely understanding. "I think we're like those two in The
Cloister and the Hearth. I'm just the rough Burgundian cross-bow man, Denys, who followed that
gentle Gerard and told everybody that the devil was dead."

"He isn't, though," said Bibbs, as a hoarse little bell in the next room began a series of
snappings which proved to be ten, upon count. "He gets into the clock whenever I'm with you."
And, sighing deeply he rose to go.

"You're always very prompt about leaving me."

"I--I try to be," he said. "It isn't easy to be careful not to risk everything by giving myself
a little more at a time. If I ever saw you look tired--"

"Have you ever?"

"Not yet. You always look--you always look--"

"How?"

"Care-free. That's it. Except when you feel sorry for me about something, you always have that
splendid look. It puts courage into people to see it. If I had a struggle to face I'd keep
remembering that look--and I'd never give up! It's a brave look, too, as though gaiety might
be a kind of gallantry on your part, and yet I don't quite understand why it should be, either."
He smiled quizzically, looking down upon her. "Mary, you haven't a 'secret sorrow,' have you?"

For answer she only laughed.

"No," he said; "I can't imagine you with a care in the world. I think that's why you were so
kind to me--you have nothing but happiness in your own life, and so you could spare time to
make my troubles turn to happiness, too. But there's one little time in the twenty-four hours
when I'm not happy. It's now, when I have to say good night. I feel dismal every time it comes--and
then, when I've left the house, there's a bad little blankness, a black void, as though I were
temporarily dead; and it lasts until I get it established in my mind that I'm really beginning
another day that's to end with YOU again. Then I cheer up. But now's the bad time--and I must
go through it, and so--good night." And he added with a pungent vehemence of which he was little
aware, "I hate it!"

"Do you?" she said, rising to go to the door with him. But he stood motionless, gazing at her
wonderingly.

"Mary! Your eyes are so--" He stopped.

"Yes?" But she looked quickly away.

"I don't know," he said. "I thought just then--"

"What did you think?"

"I don't know--it seemed to me that there was something I ought to understand--and didn't."

She laughed and met his wondering gaze again frankly. "My eyes are pleased," she said. "I'm
glad that you miss me a little after you go."

"But to-morrow's coming faster than other days if you'll let it," he said.

She inclined her head. "Yes. I'll--'let it'!"

"Going to church," said Bibbs. "It IS going to church when I go with you!"

She went to the front door with him; she always went that far. They had formed a little code
of leave-taking, by habit, neither of them ever speaking of it; but it was always the same.
She always stood in the doorway until he reached the sidewalk, and there he always turned and
looked back, and she waved her hand to him. Then he went on, halfway to the New House, and
looked back again, and Mary was not in the doorway, but the door was open and the light shone.
It was as if she meant to tell him that she would never shut him out; he could always see that
friendly light of the open doorway--as if it were open for him to come back, if he would. He
could see it until a wing of the New House came between, when he went up the path. The open
doorway seemed to him the beautiful symbol of her friendship--of her thought of him; a symbol
of herself and of her ineffable kindness.

And she kept the door open--even to-night, though the sleet and fine snow swept in upon her
bare throat and arms, and her brown hair was strewn with tiny white stars. His heart leaped
as he turned and saw that she was there, waving her hand to him, as if she did not know that
the storm touched her. When he had gone on, Mary did as she always did--she went into an unlit
room across the hall from that in which they had spent the evening, and, looking from the window,
watched him until he was out of sight. The storm made that difficult to-night, but she caught
a glimpse of him under the street-lamp that stood between the two houses, and saw that he turned
to look back again. Then, and not before, she looked at the upper windows of Roscoe's house
across the street. They were dark. Mary waited, but after a little while she closed the front
door and returned to her window. A moment later two of the upper windows of Roscoe's house
flashed into light and a hand lowered the shade of one of them. Mary felt the cold then--it
was the third night she had seen those windows lighted and the shade lowered, just after Bibbs
had gone.

But Bibbs had no glance to spare for Roscoe's windows. He stopped for his last look back at
the open door, and, with a thin mantle of white already upon his shoulders, made his way, gasping
in the wind, to the lee of the sheltering wing of the New House.

A stricken George, muttering hoarsely, admitted him, and Bibbs became aware of a paroxysm within
the house. Terrible sounds came from the library: Sheridan cursing as never before; his wife
sobbing, her voice rising to an agonized squeal of protest upon each of a series of muffled
detonations--the outrageous thumping of a bandaged hand upon wood; then Gurney, sharply imperious,
"Keep your hand in that sling! Keep your hand in that sling, I say!"

"LOOK!" George gasped, delighted to play herald for so important a tragedy; and he renewed
upon his face the ghastly expression with which he had first beheld the ruins his calamitous
gesture laid before the eyes of Bibbs. "Look at 'at lamidal statue!"

Gazing down the hall, Bibbs saw heroic wreckage, seemingly Byzantine--painted colossal fragments
of the shattered torso, appallingly human; and gilded and silvered heaps of magnificence strewn
among ruinous palms like the spoil of a barbarians' battle. There had been a massacre in the
oasis--the Moor had been hurled headlong from his pedestal.

"He hit 'at ole lamidal statue," said George. "POW!"

"My father?"

"YESsuh! POW! he hit 'er! An' you' ma run tell me git doctuh quick 's I kin telefoam--she sho'
you' pa goin' bus' a blood-vessel. He ain't takin' on 'tall NOW. He ain't nothin' 'tall to
what he was 'while ago. You done miss' it, Mist' Bibbs. Doctuh got him all quiet' down, to
what he was. POW! he hit'er! Yessuh!" He took Bibbs's coat and proffered a crumpled telegraph
form. "Here what come," he said. "I pick 'er up when he done stompin' on 'er. You read 'er,
Mist' Bibbs--you' ma tell me tuhn 'er ovuh to you soon's you come in."

Bibbs read the telegram quickly. It was from New York and addressed to Mrs. Sheridan.

   Sure you will all approve step have taken as was so wretched my
   health would probably suffered severely Robert and I were married
   this afternoon thought best have quiet wedding absolutely sure
   you will understand wisdom of step when you know Robert better am
   happiest woman in world are leaving for Florida will wire address
   when settled will remain till spring love to all father will like
   him too when knows him like I do he is just ideal.
                                                     Edith Lamhorn.

CHAPTER XXVI

George departed, and Bibbs was left gazing upon chaos and listening to thunder. He could not
reach the stairway without passing the open doors of the library, and he was convinced that
the mere glimpse of him, just then, would prove nothing less than insufferable for his father.
For that reason he was about to make his escape into the gold-and-brocade room, intending to
keep out of sight, when he heard Sheridan vociferously demanding his presence.

"Tell him to come in here! He's out there. I heard George just let him in. Now you'll SEE!"
And tear-stained Mrs. Sheridan, looking out into the hall, beckoned to her son.

Bibbs went as far as the doorway. Gurney sat winding a strip of white cotton, his black bag
open upon a chair near by; and Sheridan was striding up and down, his hand so heavily wrapped
in fresh bandages that he seemed to be wearing a small boxing-glove. His eyes were bloodshot;
his forehead was heavily bedewed; one side of his collar had broken loose, and there were blood-stains
upon his right cuff.

"THERE'S our little sunshine!" he cried, as Bibbs appeared. "THERE'S the hope o' the family--my
lifelong pride and joy! I want--"

"Keep you hand in that sling," said Gurney, sharply.

Sheridan turned upon him, uttering a sound like a howl. "For God's sake, sing another tune!"
he cried. "You said you 'came as a doctor but stay as a friend,' and in that capacity you undertake
to sit up and criticize ME--"

"Oh, talk sense," said the doctor, and yawned intentionally. "What do you want Bibbs to say?"

"You were sittin' up there tellin' me I got 'hysterical'--'hysterical,' oh Lord! You sat up
there and told me I got 'hysterical' over nothin'! You sat up there tellin' me I didn't have
as heavy burdens as many another man you knew. I just want you to hear THIS. Now listen!" He
swung toward the quiet figure waiting in the doorway. "Bibbs, will you come down-town with
me Monday morning and let me start you with two vice-presidencies, a directorship, stock, and
salaries? I ask you."

"No, father," said Bibbs, gently.

Sheridan looked at Gurney and then faced his son once more.

"Bibbs, you want to stay in the shop, do you, at nine dollars a week, instead of takin' up
my offer?"

"Yes, sir."

"And I'd like the doctor to hear: What'll you do if I decide you're too high-priced a workin'-man
either to live in my house or work in my shop?"

"Find other work," said Bibbs.

"There! You hear him for yourself!" Sheridan cried. "You hear what--"

"Keep you hand in that sling! Yes, I hear him."

Sheridan leaned over Gurney and shouted, in a voice that cracked and broke, piping into falsetto:
"He thinks of bein' a PLUMBER! He wants to be a PLUMBER! He told me he couldn't THINK if he
went into business--he wants to be a plumber so he can THINK!"

He fell back a step, wiping his forhead with the back of his left hand. "There! That's my son!
That's the only son I got now! That's my chance to live," he cried, with a bitterness that
seemed to leave ashes in his throat. "That's my one chance to live--that thing you see in the
doorway yonder!"

Dr. Gurney thoughtfully regarded the bandage strip he had been winding, and tossed it into
the open bag. "What's the matter with giving Bibbs a chance to live?" he said, coolly. "I would
if I were you. You've had TWO that went into business."

Sheridan's mouth moved grotesquely before he could speak. "Joe Gurney," he said, when he could
command himself so far, "are you accusin' me of the responsibility for the death of my son James?"

"I accuse you of nothing," said the doctor. "But just once I'd like to have it out with you
on the question of Bibbs--and while he's here, too." He got up, walked to the fire, and stood
warming his hands behind his back and smiling. "Look here, old fellow, let's be reasonable,"
he said. "You were bound Bibbs should go to the shop again, and I gave you and him, both, to
understand pretty plainly that if he went it was at the risk of his life. Well, what did he
do? He said he wanted to go. And he did go, and he's made good there. Now, see: Isn't that
enough? Can't you let him off now? He wants to write, and how do you know that he couldn't
do it if you gave him a chance? How do you know he hasn't some message--something to say that
might make the world just a little bit happier or wiser? He MIGHT--in time--it's a possibility
not to be denied. Now he can't deliver any message if he goes down there with you, and he won't
HAVE any to deliver. I don't say going down with you is likely to injure his health, as I thought
the shop would, and as the shop did, the first time. I'm not speaking as doctor now, anyhow.
But I tell you one thing I know: if you take him down there you'll kill something that I feel
is in him, and it's finer, I think, than his physical body, and you'll kill it deader than
a door-nail! And so why not let it live? You've about come to the end of your string, old fellow.
Why not stop this perpetual devilish fighting and give Bibbs his chance?"

Sheridan stood looking at him fixedly. "What 'fighting?'"

"Yours--with nature." Gurney sustained the daunting gaze of his fierce antagonist equably.
"You don't seem to understand that you've been struggling against actual law."

"What law?"

"Natural law," said Gurney. "What do you think beat you with Edith? Did Edith, herself, beat
you? Didn't she obey without question something powerful that was against you? EDITH wasn't
against you, and you weren't against HER, but you set yourself against the power that had her
in its grip, and it shot out a spurt of flame--and won in a walk! What's taken Roscoe from
you? Timbers bear just so much strain, old man; but YOU wanted to send the load across the
broken bridge, and you thought you could bully or coax the cracked thing into standing. Well,
you couldn't! Now here's Bibbs. There are thousands of men fit for the life you want him to
lead--and so is he. It wouldn't take half of Bibbs's brains to be twice as good a business
man as Jim and Roscoe put together."

"WHAT!" Sheridan goggled at him like a zany.

"Your son Bibbs," said the doctor, composedly, "Bibbs Sheridan has the kind and quantity of
'gray matter' that will make him a success in anything--if he ever wakes up! Personally I should
prefer him to remain asleep. I like him that way. But the thousands of men fit for the life
you want him to lead aren't fit to do much with the life he OUGHT to lead. Blindly, he's been
fighting for the chance to lead it--he's obeying something that begs to stay alive within him;
and, blindly, he knows you'll crush it out. You've set your will to do it. Let me tell you
something more. I did wish to the Channel. But for that Iodine should have been compel to travel
around the Land of Storm. To be certain, in that break i might have been catch a glance of Arrangement
Mount and its unsmooth "table-aba," and have recognize the so startled isle where Cards was caged.
But while would have been large compensation for the voyage. Thus i understand the Groove as
windows were in some sort to a friend, and i tried to space it. But the tedious Taxidermist Iodine
sat you serve of edge himself in side of me, and conceal the view
wholly. Haven't you been whipped enough? But you want to whip
the law--you've set yourself against it, to bend it to your own ends, to wield it and twist it--"

The voice broke from Sheridan's heaving chest in a shout. "Yes! And by God, I will!"

"So Ajax defied the lightning," said Gurney.

"I've heard that dam'-fool story, too," Sheridan retorted, fiercely. "That's for chuldern and
niggers. It ain't twentieth century, let me tell you! 'Defied the lightning,' did he, the jackass!
If he'd been half a man he'd 'a' got away with it. WE don't go showin' off defyin' the lightning--we
hitch it up and make it work for us like a black-steer! A man nowadays would just as soon think
o' defyin' a wood-shed!"

"Well, what about Bibbs?" said Gurney. "Will you be a really big man now and--"

"Gurney, you know a lot about bigness!" Sheridan began to walk to and fro again, and the doctor
returned gloomily to his chair. He had shot his bolt the moment he judged its chance to strike
center was best, but the target seemed unaware of the marksman.

"I'm tryin' to make a big man out o' that poor truck yonder," Sheridan went on, "and you step
in, beggin' me to let him be Lord knows what--I don't! I suppose you figure it out that now
I got a SON-IN-LAW, I mightn't need a son! Yes, I got a son-in-law now--a spender!"

"Oh, put your hand back!" said Gurney, wearily.

There was a bronze inkstand upon the table. Sheridan put his right hand in the sling, but with
his left he swept the inkstand from the table and half-way across the room--a comet with a
destroying black tail. Mrs. Sheridan shrieked and sprang toward it.

"Let it lay!" he shouted, fiercely. "Let it lay!" And, weeping, she obeyed. "Yes, sir," he
went on, in a voice the more ominous for the sudden hush he put upon it. "I got a spender for
a son-in-law! It's wonderful where property goes, sometimes. There was ole man Tracy--you remember
him, Doc--J. R. Tracy, solid banker. He went into the bank as messenger, seventeen years old;
he was president at forty-three, and he built that bank with his life for forty years more.
He was down there from nine in the morning until four in the afternoon the day before he died--over
eighty! Gilt edge, that bank? It was diamond edge! He used to eat a bag o' peanuts and an apple
for lunch; but he wasn't stingy--he was just livin' in his business. He didn't care for pie
or automobiles--he had his bank. It was an institution, and it come pretty near bein' the beatin'
heart o' this town in its time. Well, that ole man used to pass one o' these here turned-up-nose
and turned-up-pants cigarette boys on the streets. Never spoke to him, Tracy didn't. Speak
to him? God! he wouldn't 'a' coughed on him! He wouldn't 'a' let him clean the cuspidors at
the bank! Why, if he'd 'a' just seen him standin' in FRONT the bank he'd 'a' had him run off
the street. And yet all Tracy was doin' every day of his life was workin' for that cigarette
boy! Tracy thought it was for the bank; he thought he was givin' his life and his life-blood
and the blood of his brain for the bank, but he wasn't. It was every bit--from the time he
went in at seventeen till he died in harness at eighty-three--it was every last lick of it
just slavin' for that turned-up-nose, turned-up-pants cigarette boy. AND TRACY DIDN'T EVEN
KNOW HIS NAME! He died, not ever havin' heard it, though he chased him off the front steps
of his house once. The day after Tracy died his old-maid daughter married the cigarette--and
there AIN'T any Tracy bank any more! And now"--his voice rose again--"and now I got a cigarette
son-in-law!"

Gurney pointed to the flourishing right hand without speaking, and Sheridan once more returned
it to the sling.

"My son-in-law likes Florida this winter," Sheridan went on. "That's good, and my son-in-law
better enjoy it, because I don't think he'll be there next winter. They got twelve-thousand
dollars to spend, and I hear it can be done in Florida by rich sons-in-law. When Roscoe's woman
got me to spend that much on a porch for their new house, Edith wouldn't give me a minute's
rest till I turned over the same to her. And she's got it, besides what I gave her to go East
on. It'll be gone long before this time next year, and when she comes home and leaves the cigarette
behind--for good--she'll get some more. MY name ain't Tracy, and there ain't goin' to be any
Tracy business in the Sheridan family. And there ain't goin' to be any college foundin' and
endowin' and trusteein', nor God-knows-what to keep my property alive when I'm gone! Edith'll
be back, and she'll get a girl's share when she's through with that cigarette, but--"

"By the way," interposed Gurney, "didn't Mrs. Sheridan tell me that Bibbs warned you Edith
would marry Lamhorn in New York?"

Sheridan went completely to pieces: he swore, while his wife screamed and stopped her ears.
And as he swore he pounded the table with his wounded hand, and when the doctor, after storming
at him ineffectively, sprang to catch and protect that hand, Sheridan wrenched it away, tearing
the bandage. He hammered the table till it leaped.

"Fool!" he panted, choking. "If he's shown gumption enough to guess right the first time in
his life, it's enough for me to begin learnin' him on!" And, struggling with the doctor, he
leaned toward Bibbs, thrusting forward his convulsed face, which was deathly pale. "My name
ain't Tracy, I tell you!" he screamed, hoarsely. "You give in, you stubborn fool! I've had
my way with you before, and I'll have my way with you now!"

Bibbs's face was as white as his father's, but he kept remembering that "splendid look" of
Mary's which he had told her would give him courage in a struggle, so that he would "never
give up."

"No. You can't have your way," he said. And then, obeying a significant motion of Gurney's
head, he went out quickly, leaving them struggling.

CHAPTER XXVII

Mrs. Sheridan, in a wrapper, noiselessly opened the door of her husband's room at daybreak
the next morning, and peered within the darkened chamber. At the "old" house they had shared
a room, but the architect had chosen to separate them at the New, and they had not known how
to formulate an objection, although to both of them something seemed vaguely reprehensible
in the new arrangement.

Sheridan did not stir, and she was withdrawing her head from the aperture when he spoke.

"Oh, I'm AWAKE! Come in, if you want to, and shut the door."

She came and sat by the bed. "I woke up thinkin' about it," she explained. "And the more I
thought about it the surer I got I must be right, and I knew you'd be tormentin' yourself if
you was awake, so--well, you got plenty other troubles, but I'm just sure you ain't goin' to
have the worry with Bibbs it looks like."

"You BET I ain't!" he grunted.

"Look how biddable he was about goin' back to the Works," she continued. "He's a right good-hearted
boy, really, and sometimes I honestly have to say he seems right smart, too. Now and then he'll
say something sounds right bright. 'Course, most always it doesn't, and a good deal of the
time, when he says things, why, I have to feel glad we haven't got company, because they'd
think he didn't have any gumption at all. Yet, look at the way he did when Jim--when Jim got
hurt. He took right hold o' things. 'Course he'd been sick himself so much and all--and the
rest of us never had, much, and we were kind o' green about what to do in that kind o' trouble--still,
he did take hold, and everything went off all right; you'll have to say that much, papa. And
Dr. Gurney says he's got brains, and you can't deny but what the doctor's right considerable
of a man. He acts sleepy, but that's only because he's got such a large practice--he's a pretty
wide-awake kind of a man some ways. Well, what he says last night about Bibbs himself bein'
asleep, and how much he'd amount to if he ever woke up--that's what I got to thinkin' about.
You heard him, papa; he says, 'Bibbs'll be a bigger business man than what Jim and Roscoe was
put together--if he ever wakes up,' he says. Wasn't that exactly what he says?"

"I suppose so," said Sheridan, without exhibiting any interest. "Gurney's crazier'n Bibbs,
but if he wasn't--if what he says was true--what of it?"

"Listen, papa. Just suppose Bibbs took it into his mind to get married. You know where he goes
all the time--"

"Oh, Lord, yes!" You have been state after Iodine-131 may enough populate sometimes; that i may,
was yet, populate concerning double, and go against Missive. I acquire from symbol. It is not been disgusted
molecules. Nasty traveler of you gave of information and populate again
become.

Angiosperm do-- and butterfly.

Don'Second Content was whipped of Diversion.

By Title. European McCARTHY. Disgusted Father plug me know you took in support, and you flash,
and whispered concerning extremity, "any intemperance of law, Shilling?" I was very molecules,
the'you state anything. If he'you took s been em sizing, property would have been impossible;
but isn't large to pique you took. I smiled it in grief, but i was unitedly same law was become
in ghetto. Any less sprees! Element should enough deny not.'the ll arrive it to don any one if his
sort of going of the fling. "Number, Jim Roscoe'," he gave at self and your contents, and possibly
he flash about.

I announce i was that Law was prevent my tablet acquire the molecules. Enough'mho'the idiom than
it was. We populate you in sort, that you understand you. Again everybody
have his firm, and pass all his case in repair down. The don to don it
over Dynasty to tomorrow, but before they travel you, and after you
know you gave with self, and they'metal enough been niggle around you,
consuming from happening, and what they name transformation. You
do'most mad if a grave is out of summons. Every woman to lift bloomer,
darning, and all that category been become of decoration, and know
the workforce to travel putter about you took, make more archipelago
than every Occident over 1000 of realty. Ne'er, that we son acquire good ever and
that you stage everything to t. In acting-- possibly not so grand, but a fragment
as sad. And I guess
she isn't gettin' many these days, either, and she'll be pretty ready for the change. I saw
her with her sleeves rolled up at the kitchen window the other day, and Jackson told me yesterday
their cook left two weeks ago, and they haven't tried to hire another one. He says her and
her mother been doin' the housework a good while, and now they're doin' the cookin,' too. 'Course
Bibbs wouldn't know that unless she's told him, and I reckon she wouldn't; she's kind o' stiffish-lookin',
and Bibbs is too up in the clouds to notice anything like that for himself. They've never asked
him to a meal in the house, but he wouldn't notice that, either--he's kind of innocent. Now
I was thinkin'--you know, I don't suppose we've hardly mentioned the girl's name at table since
Jim went, but it seems to me maybe if--"

Sheridan flung out his arms, uttering a sound half-groan, half-yawn. "You're barkin' up the
wrong tree! Go on back to bed, mamma!"

"Why am I?" she demanded, crossly. "Why am I barkin' up the wrong tree?"

"Because you are. There's nothin' in it."

"I'll bet you," she said, rising--"I'll bet you he goes to church with her this morning. What
you want to bet?"

"Go back to bed," he commanded. "I KNOW what I'm talkin' about; there's nothin' in it, I tell you."

She shook her head perplexedly. "You think because--because Jim was runnin' so much with her
it wouldn't look right?"

"No. Nothin' to do with it."

"Then--do you know something about it that you ain't told me?"

"Yes, I do," he grunted. "Now go on. Maybe I can get a little sleep. I ain't had any yet!"

"Well--" She went to the door, her expression downcast. "I thought maybe--but--" She coughed
prefatorily. "Oh, papa, something else I wanted to tell you. I was talkin' to Roscoe over the
'phone last night when the telegram came, so I forgot to tell you, but--well, Sibyl wants to
come over this afternoon. Roscoe says she has something she wants to say to us. It'll be the
first time she's been out since she was able to sit up--and I reckon she wants to tell us she's
sorry for what happened. They expect to get off by the end o' the week, and I reckon she wants
to feel she's done what she could to kind o' make up. Anyway, that's what he said. I 'phoned
him again about Edith, and he said it wouldn't disturb Sibyl, because she'd been expectin'
it; she was sure all along it was goin' to happen; and, besides, I guess she's got all that
foolishness pretty much out of her, bein' so sick. But what I thought was, no use bein' rough
with her, papa--I expect she's suffered a good deal--and I don't think we'd ought to be, on
Roscoe's account. You'll--you'll be kind o' polite to her, won't you, papa?"

He mumbled something which was smothered under the coverlet he had pulled over his head.

"What?" she said, timidly. "I was just sayin' I hoped you'd treat Sibyl all right when she
comes, this afternoon. You will, won't you, papa?"

He threw the coverlet off furiously. "I presume so!" he roared.

She departed guiltily.

But if he had accepted her proffered wager that Bibbs would go to church with Mary Vertrees
that morning, Mrs. Sheridan would have lost. Nevertheless, Bibbs and Mary did certainly set
out from Mr. Vertrees's house with the purpose of going to church. That was their intention,
and they had no other. They meant to go to church.

But it happened that they were attentively preoccupied in a conversation as they came to the
church; and though Mary was looking to the right and Bibbs was looking to the left, Bibbs's
leftward glance converged with Mary's rightward glance, and neither was looking far beyond
the other at this time. It also happened that, though they were a little jostled among groups
of people in the vicinity of the church, they passed this somewhat prominent edifice without
being aware of their proximity to it, and they had gone an incredible number of blocks beyond
it before they discovered their error. However, feeling that they might be embarrassingly late
if they returned, they decided that a walk would make them as good. It was a windless winter
morning, with an inch of crisp snow over the ground. So they walked, and for the most part
they were silent, but on their way home, after they had turned back at noon, they began to
be talkative again.

"Mary," said Bibbs, after a time, "am I a sleep-walker?"

She laughed a little, then looked grave. "Does your father say you are?"

"Yes--when he's in a mood to flatter me. Other times, other names. He has quite a list."

"You mustn't mind," she said, gently. "He's been getting some pretty severe shocks. What you've
told me makes me pretty sorry for him, Bibbs. I've always been sure he's very big."

"Yes. Big and--blind. He's like a Hercules without eyes and without any consciousness except
that of his strength and of his purpose to grow stronger. Stronger for what? For nothing."

"Are you sure, Bibbs? It CAN'T be for nothing; it must be stronger for something, even though
he doesn't know what it is. Perhaps what he and his kind are struggling for is something so
great they COULDN'T see it--so great none of us could see it."

"No, he's just like some blind, unconscious thing heaving underground--"

"Till he breaks through and leaps out into the daylight," she finished for him, cheerily.

"Into the smoke," said Bibbs. "Look at the powder of coal-dust already dirtying the decent
snow, even though it's Sunday. That's from the little pigs; the big ones aren't so bad, on
Sunday! There's a fleck of soot on your cheek. Some pig sent it out into the air; he might
as well have thrown it on you. It would have been braver, for then he'd have taken his chance
of my whipping him for it if I could."

"IS there soot on my cheek, Bibbs, or were you only saying so rhetorically? IS there?"

"Is there? There ARE soot on your cheeks, Mary--a fleck on each. One landed since I mentioned
the first."

She halted immediately, giving him her handkerchief, and he succeeded in transferring most
of the black from her face to the cambric. They were entirely matter-of-course about it.

An elderly couple, it chanced, had been walking behind Bibbs and Mary for the last block or
so, and passed ahead during the removal of the soot. "There!" said the elderly wife. "You're
always wrong when you begin guessing about strangers. Those two young people aren't honeymooners
at all--they've been married for years. A blind man could see that."

"I wish I did know who threw that soot on you," said Bibbs, looking up at the neighboring chimneys,
as they went on. "They arrest children for throwing snowballs at the street-cars, but--"

"But they don't arrest the street-cars for shaking all the pictures in the houses crooked every
time they go by. Nor for the uproar they make. I wonder what's the cost in nerves for the noise
of the city each year. Yes, we pay the price for living in a 'growing town,' whether we have
money to pay or none."

"Who is it gets the pay?" said Bibbs.

"Not I!" she laughed.

"Nobody gets it. There isn't any pay; there's only money. And only some of the men down-town
get much of that. That's what my father wants me to get."

"Yes," she said, smiling to him, and nodding. "And you don't want it, and you don't need it."

"But you don't think I'm a sleep-walker, Mary?" He had told her of his father's new plans for
him, though he had not described the vigor and picturesqueness of their setting forth. "You
think I'm right?"

"A thousand times!" she cried. "There aren't so many happy people in this world, I think--and
you say you've found what makes you happy. If it's a dream--keep it!"

"The thought of going down there--into the money shuffle--I hate it as I never hated the shop!"
he said. "I hate it! And the city itself, the city that the money shuffle has made--just look
at it! Look at it in winter. The snow's tried hard to make the ugliness bearable, but the ugliness
is winning; it's making the snow hideous; the snow's getting dirty on top, and it's foul underneath
with the dirt and disease of the unclean street. And the dirt and the ugliness and the rush
and the noise aren't the worst of it; it's what the dirt and ugliness and rush and noise MEAN--that's
the worst! The outward things are insufferable, but they're only the expression of a spirit--a
blind embryo of a spirit, not yet a soul--oh, just greed! And this 'go ahead' nonsense! Oughtn't
it all to be a fellowship? I shouldn't want to get ahead if I could--I'd want to help the other
fellow to keep up with me."

"I read something the other day and remembered it for you," said Mary. "It was something Burne-Jones
said of a picture he was going to paint: 'In the first picture I shall make a man walking in
the street of a great city, full of all kinds of happy life: children, and lovers walking,
and ladies leaning from the windows all down great lengths of a street leading to the city
walls; and there the gates are wide open, letting in a space of green field and cornfield in
harvest; and all round his head a great rain of swirling autumn leaves blowing from a little
walled graveyard."

"And if I painted," Bibbs returned, "I'd paint a lady walking in the street of a great city,
full of all kinds of uproarious and futile life--children being taught only how to make money,
and lovers hurrying to get richer, and ladies who'd given up trying to wash their windows clean,
and the gates of the city wide open, letting in slums and slaughter-houses and freight-yards,
and all round this lady's head a great rain of swirling soot--" He paused, adding, thoughtfully:
"And yet I believe I'm glad that soot got on your cheek. It was just as if I were your brother--the
way you gave me your handkerchief to rub it off for you. Still, Edith never--"

"Didn't she?" said Mary, as he paused again.

"No. And I--" He contented himself with shaking his head instead of offering more definite
information. Then he realized that they were passing the New House, and he sighed profoundly.
"Mary, our walk's almost over."

She looked as blank. "So it is, Bibbs."

They said no more until they came to her gate. As they drifted slowly to a stop, the door of
Roscoe's house opened, and Roscoe came out with Sibyl, who was startlingly pale. She seemed
little enfeebled by her illness, however, walking rather quickly at her husband's side and
not taking his arm. The two crossed the street without appearing to see Mary and her companion,
and entering the New House, were lost to sight. Mary gazed after them gravely, but Bibbs, looking
at Mary, did not see them.

"Mary," he said, "you seem very serious. Is anything bothering you?"

"No, Bibbs." And she gave him a bright, quick look that made him instantly unreasonably happy.

"I know you want to go in--" he began.

"No. I don't want to."

"I mustn't keep you standing here, and I mustn't go in with you--but--I just wanted to say--I've
seemed very stupid to myself this morning, grumbling about soot and all that--while all the
time I--Mary, I think it's been the very happiest of all the hours you've given me. I do. And--I
don't know just why--but it's seemed to me that it was one I'd always remember. And you," he
added, falteringly, "you look so--so beautiful to-day!"

"It must have been the soot on my cheek, Bibbs."

"Mary, will you tell me something?" he asked.

"I think I will."

"It's something I've had a lot of theories about, but none of them ever just fits. You used
to wear furs in the fall, but now it's so much colder, you don't--you never wear them at all
any more. Why don't you?"

Her eyes fell for a moment, and she grew red. Then she looked up gaily. "Bibbs, if I tell you
the answer will you promise not to ask any more questions?"

"Yes. Why did you stop wearing them?"

"Because I found I'd be warmer without them!" She caught his hand quickly in her own for an
instant, laughed into his eyes, and ran into the house.

CHAPTER XXVIII

It is the consoling attribute of unused books that their decorative warmth will so often make
even a ready-made library the actual "living-room" of a family to whom the shelved volumes
are indeed sealed. Thus it was with Sheridan, who read nothing except newspapers, business
letters, and figures; who looked upon books as he looked upon bric-a-brac or crocheting--when
he was at home, and not abed or eating, he was in the library.

He stood in the many-colored light of the stained-glass window at the far end of the long room,
when Roscoe and his wife came in, and he exhaled a solemnity. His deference to the Sabbath
was manifest, as always, in the length of his coat and the closeness of his Saturday-night
shave; and his expression, to match this religious pomp, was more than Sabbatical, but the
most dismaying of his demonstrations was his keeping his hand in his sling.

Sibyl advanced to the middle of the room and halted there, not looking at him, but down at
her muff, in which, it could be seen, her hands were nervously moving. Roscoe went to a chair
in another part of the room. There was a deadly silence.

But Sibyl found a shaky voice, after an interval of gulping, though she was unable to lift
her eyes, and the darkling lids continued to veil them. She spoke hurriedly, like an ungifted
child reciting something committed to memory, but her sincerity was none the less evident for that.

"Father Sheridan, you and mother Sheridan have always been so kind to me, and I would hate
to have you think I don't appreciate it, from the way I acted. I've come to tell you I am sorry
for the way I did that night, and to say I know as well as anybody the way I behaved, and it
will never happen again, because it's been a pretty hard lesson; and when we come back, some
day, I hope you'll see that you've got a daughter-in-law you never need to be ashamed of again.
I want to ask you to excuse me for the way I did, and I can say I haven't any feelings toward
Edith now, but only wish her happiness and good in her new life. I thank you for all your kindness
to me, and I know I made a poor return for it, but if you can overlook the way I behaved I
know I would feel a good deal happier--and I know Roscoe would, too. I wish to promise not
to be as foolish in the future, and the same error would never occur again to make us all so
unhappy, if you can be charitable enought to excuse it this time."

He looked steadily at her without replying, and she stood before him, never lifting her eyes;
motionless, save where the moving fur proved the agitation of her hands within the muff.

"All right," he said at last.

She looked up then with vast relief, though there was a revelation of heavy tears when the
eyelids lifted.

"Thank you," she said. "There's something else--about something different--I want to say to
you, but I want mother Sheridan to hear it, too."

"She's up-stairs in her room," said Sheridan. "Roscoe--"

Sibyl interrupted. She had just seen Bibbs pass through the hall and begin to ascend the stairs;
and in a flash she instinctively perceived the chance for precisely the effect she wanted.

"No, let me go," she said. "I want to speak to her a minute first, anyway."

And she went away quickly, gaining the top of the stairs in time to see Bibbs enter his room
and close the door. Sibyl knew that Bibbs, in his room, had overheard her quarrel with Edith
in the hall outside; for bitter Edith, thinking the more to shame her, had subsequently informed
her of the circumstance. Sibyl had just remembered this, and with the recollection there had
flashed the thought--out of her own experience--that people are often much more deeply impressed
by words they overhear than by words directly addressed to them. Sibyl intended to make it
impossible for Bibbs not to overhear. She did not hesitate--her heart was hot with the old
sore, and she believed wholly in the justice of her cause and in the truth of what she was
going to say. Fate was virtuous at times; it had delivered into her hands the girl who had
affronted her.

Mrs. Sheridan was in her own room. The approach of Sibyl and Roscoe had driven her from the
library, for she had miscalculated her husband's mood, and she felt that if he used his injured
hand as a mark of emphasis again, in her presence, she would (as she thought of it) "have a
fit right there." She heard Sibyl's step, and pretended to be putting a touch to her hair before
a mirror.

"I was just coming down," she said, as the door opened.

"Yes, he wants you to," said Sibyl. "It's all right, mother Sheridan. He's forgiven me."

Mrs. Sheridan sniffed instantly; tears appeared. She kissed her daughter-in-law's cheek; then,
in silence, regarded the mirror afresh, wiped her eyes, and applied powder.

"And I hope Edith will be happy," Sibyl added, inciting more applications of Mrs. Sheridan's
handkerchief and powder.

"Yes, yes," murmured the good woman. "We mustn't make the worst of things."

"Well, there was something else I had to say, and he wants you to hear it, too," said Sibyl.
"We better go down, mother Sheridan."

She led the way, Mrs. Sheridan following obediently, but when they came to a spot close by
Bibbs's door, Sibyl stopped. "I want to tell you about it first," she said, abruptly. "It isn't
a secret, of course, in any way; it's something the whole family has to know, and the sooner
the whole family knows it the better. It's something it wouldn't be RIGHT for us ALL not to
understand, and of course father Sheridan most of all. But I want to just kind of go over it
first with you; it'll kind of help me to see I got it all straight. I haven't got any reason
for saying it except the good of the family, and it's nothing to me, one way or the other,
of course, except for that. I oughtn't to've behaved the way I did that night, and it seems
to me if there's anything I can do to help the family, I ought to, because it would help show
I felt the right way. Well, what I want to do is to tell this so's to keep the family from
being made a fool of. I don't want to see the family just made use of and twisted around her
finger by somebody that's got no more heart than so much ice, and just as sure to bring troubles
in the long run as--as Edith's mistake is. Well, then, this is the way it is. I'll just tell
you how it looks to me and see if it don't strike you the same way."

Within the room, Bibbs, much annoyed, tapped his ear with his pencil. He wished they wouldn't
stand talking near his door when he was trying to write. He had just taken from his trunk the
manuscript of a poem begun the preceding Sunday afternoon, and he had some ideas he wanted
to fix upon paper before they maliciously seized the first opportunity to vanish, for they
were but gossamer. Bibbs was pleased with the beginnings of his poem, and if he could carry
it through he meant to dare greatly with it--he would venture it upon an editor. For he had
his plan of life now: his day would be of manual labor and thinking--he could think of his
friend and he could think in cadences for poems, to the crashing of the strong machine--and
if his father turned him out of home and out of the Works, he would work elsewhere and live
elsewhere. His father had the right, and it mattered very little to Bibbs--he faced the prospect
of a working-man's lodging-house without trepidation. He could find a washstand to write upon,
he thought; and every evening when he left Mary he would write a little; and he would write
on holidays and on Sundays--on Sundays in the afternoon. In a lodging-house, at least he wouldn't
be interrupted by his sister-in-law's choosing the immediate vicinity of his door for conversations
evidently important to herself, but merely disturbing to him. He frowned plaintively, wishing
he could think of some polite way of asking her to go away. But, as she went on, he started
violently, dropping manuscript and pencil upon the floor.

"I don't know whether you heard it, mother Sheridan," she said, "but this old Vertrees house,
next door, had been sold on foreclosure, and all THEY got out of it was an agreement that let's
'em live there a little longer. Roscoe told me, and he says he heard Mr. Vertrees has been
up and down the streets more'n two years, tryin' to get a job he could call a 'position,' and
couldn't land it. You heard anything about it, mother Sheridan?"

"Well, I DID know they been doin' their own house-work a good while back," said Mrs. Sheridan.
"And now they're doin' the cookin', too."

Sibyl sent forth a little titter with a sharp edge. "I hope they find something to cook! She
sold her piano mighty quick after Jim died!"

Bibbs jumped up. He was trembling from head to foot and he was dizzy--of all the real things
he could never have dreamed in his dream the last would have been what he heard now. He felt
that something incredible was happening, and that he was powerless to stop it. It seemed to
him that heavy blows were falling on his head and upon Mary's; it seemed to him that he and
Mary were being struck and beaten physically--and that something hideous impended. He wanted
to shout to Sibyl to be silent, but he could not; he could only stand, swallowing and trembling.

"What I think the whole family ought to understand is just this," said Sibyl, sharply. "Those
people were so hard up that this Miss Vertrees started after Bibbs before they knew whether
he was INSANE or not! They'd got a notion he might be, from his being in a sanitarium, and
Mrs. Vertrees ASKED me if he was insane, the very first day Bibbs took the daughter out auto-riding!"
She paused a moment, looking at Mrs. Sheridan, but listening intently. There was no sound from
within the room.

"No!" exclaimed Mrs. Sheridan.

"It's the truth," Sibyl declared, loudly. "Oh, of course we were all crazy about that girl
at first. We were pretty green when we moved up here, and we thought she'd get us IN--but it
didn't take ME long to read her! Her family were down and out when it came to money--and they
had to go after it, one way or another, SOMEHOW! So she started for Roscoe; but she found out
pretty quick he was married, and she turned right around to Jim--and she landed him! There's
no doubt about it, she had Jim, and if he'd lived you'd had another daughter-in-law before
this, as sure as I stand here telling you the God's truth about it! Well--when Jim was left
in the cemetery she was waiting out there to drive home with Bibbs! Jim wasn't COLD--and she
didn't know whether Bibbs was insane or not, but he was the only one of the rich Sheridan boys
left. She had to get him."

The texture of what was the truth made an even fabric with what was not, in Sibyl's mind; she
believed every word that she uttered, and she spoke with the rapidity and vehemence of fierce
conviction.

"What I feel about it is," she said, "it oughtn't to be allowed to go on. It's too mean! I
like poor Bibbs, and I don't want to see him made such a fool of, and I don't want to see the
family made such a fool of! I like poor Bibbs, but if he'd only stop to think a minute himself
he'd have to realize he isn't the kind of man ANY girl would be apt to fall in love with. He's
better-looking lately, maybe, but you know how he WAS--just kind of a long white rag in good
clothes. And girls like men with some SO to 'em--SOME sort of dashingness, anyhow! Nobody ever
looked at poor Bibbs before, and neither'd she--no, SIR! not till she'd tried both Roscoe and
Jim first! It was only when her and her family got desperate that she--"

Bibbs--whiter than when he came from the sanitarium--opened the door. He stepped across its
threshold and stook looking at her. Both women screamed.

"Oh, good heavens!" cried Sibyl. "Were you in THERE? Oh, I wouldn't--" She seized Mrs. Sheridan's
arm, pulling her toward the stairway. "Come on, mother Sheridan!" she urged, and as the befuddled
and confused lady obeyed, Sibyl left a trail of noisy exclamations: "Good gracious! Oh, I wouldn't--too
bad! I didn't DREAM he was there! I wouldn't hurt his feelings! Not for the world! Of course
he had to know SOME time! But, good heavens--"

She heard his door close as she and Mrs. Sheridan reached the top of the stairs, and she glanced
over her shoulder quickly, but Bibbs was not following; he had gone back into his room.

"He--he looked--oh, terrible bad!" stammered Mrs. Sheridan. "I--I wish--"

"Still, it's a good deal better he knows about it," said Sibyl. "I shouldn't wonder it might
turn out the very best thing could happened. Come on!"

And completing their descent to the library, the two made their appearance to Roscoe and his
father. Sibyl at once gave a full and truthful account of what had taken place, repeating her
own remarks, and omitting only the fact that it was through her design that Bibbs had overheard
them.

"But as I told mother Sheridan," she said, in conclusion, "it might turn out for the very best
that he did hear--just that way. Don't you think so, father Sheridan?"

He merely grunted in reply, and sat rubbing the thick hair on the top of his head with his
left hand and looking at the fire. He had given no sign of being impressed in any manner by
her exposure of Mary Vertrees's character; but his impassivity did not dismay Sibyl--it was
Bibbs whom she desired to impress, and she was content in that matter.

"I'm sure it was all for the best," she said. "It's over now, and he knows what she is. In
one way I think it was lucky, because, just hearing a thing that way, a person can tell it's
SO--and he knows I haven't got any ax to grind except his own good and the good of the family."

Mrs. Sheridan went nervously to the door and stood there, looking toward the stairway. "I wish--I
wish I knew what he was doin'," she said. "He did look terrible bad. It was like something
had been done to him that was--I don't know what. I never saw anybody look like he did. He
looked--so queer. It was like you'd--" She called down the hall, "George!"

"Yes'm?"

"Were you up in Mr. Bibbs's room just now?"

"Yes'm. He ring bell; tole me make him fiah in his grate. I done buil' him nice fiah. I reckon
he ain' feelin' so well. Yes'm." He departed.

"What do you expect he wants a fire for?" she asked, turning toward her husband. "The house
is warm as can be, I do wish I--"

"Oh, quit frettin'!" said Sheridan.

"Well, I--I kind o' wish you hadn't said anything, Sibyl. I know you meant it for the best
and all, but I don't believe it would been so much harm if--"

"Mother Sheridan, you don't mean you WANT that kind of a girl in the family? Why, she--"

"I don't know, I don't know," the troubled woman quavered. "If he liked her it seems kind of
a pity to spoil it. He's so queer, and he hasn't ever taken much enjoyment. And besides, I
believe the way it was, there was more chance of him bein' willin' to do what papa wants him
to. If she wants to marry him--"

Sheridan interrupted her with a hooting laugh. "She don't!" he said. "You're barkin' up the
wrong tree, Sibyl. She ain't that kind of a girl."

"But, father Sheridan, didn't she--"

He cut her short. "That's enough. You may mean all right, but you guess wrong. So do you, mamma."

Sibyl cried out, "Oh! But just LOOK how she ran after Jim--"

"She did not," he said, curtly. "She wouldn't take Jim. She turned him down cold."

"But that's impossi--"

"It's not. I KNOW she did."

Sibyl looked flatly incredulous.

"And YOU needn't worry," he said, turning to his wife. "This won't have any effect on your
idea, because there wasn't any sense to it, anyhow. D'you think she'd be very likely to take
Bibbs--after she wouldn't take JIM? She's a good-hearted girl, and she lets Bibbs come to see
her, but if she'd ever given him one sign of encouragement the way you women think, he wouldn't
of acted the stubborn fool he has--he'd 'a' been at me long ago, beggin' me for some kind of
a job he could support a wife on. There's nothin' in it--and I've got the same old fight with
him on my hands I've had all his life--and the Lord knows what he won't do to balk me! What's
happened now'll probably only make him twice as stubborn, but--"

"SH!" Mrs. Sheridan, still in the doorway, lifted her hand. "That's his step--he's comin' down-stairs."
She shrank away from the door as if she feared to have Bibbs see her. "I--I wonder--" she said,
almost in a whisper--"I wonder what he'd goin'--to do."

Her timorousness had its effect upon the others. Sheridan rose, frowning, but remained standing
beside his chair; and Roscoe moved toward Sibyl, who stared uneasily at the open doorway. They
listened as the slow steps descended the stairs and came toward the library.

