Tired of this long farce, the minister at last assumed a serious tone, and threatened the obstinate
duke with the Emperor's resentment, if he persisted in his refusal.  "Low enough had the imperial
dignity," he added, "stooped already; and yet, instead of exciting his magnanimity by its condescension,
had only flattered his pride and increased his obstinacy.  If this sacrifice had been made
in vain, he would not answer, but that the suppliant might be converted into the sovereign,
and that the monarch might not avenge his injured dignity on his rebellious subject.  However
greatly Ferdinand may have erred, the Emperor at least had a claim to obedience; the man might
be mistaken, but the monarch could not confess his error.  If the Duke of Friedland had suffered
by an unjust decree, he might yet be recompensed for all his losses; the wound which it had
itself inflicted, the hand of Majesty might heal.  If he asked security for his person and
his dignities, the Emperor's equity would refuse him no reasonable demand.  Majesty contemned,
admitted not of any atonement; disobedience to its commands cancelled the most brilliant services.
The Emperor required his services, and as emperor he demanded them.  Whatever price Wallenstein
might set upon them, the Emperor would readily agree to; but he demanded obedience, or the
weight of his indignation should crush the refractory servant."

Wallenstein, whose extensive possessions within the Austrian monarchy were momentarily exposed
to the power of the Emperor, was keenly sensible that this was no idle threat; yet it was not
fear that at last overcame his affected reluctance.  This imperious tone of itself, was to
his mind a plain proof of the weakness and despair which dictated it, while the Emperor's readiness
to yield all his demands, convinced him that he had attained the summit of his wishes.  He
now made a show of yielding to the persuasions of Eggenberg; and left him, in order to write
down the conditions on which he accepted the command.

Not without apprehension, did the minister receive the writing, in which the proudest of subjects
had prescribed laws to the proudest of sovereigns.  But however little confidence he had in
the moderation of his friend, the extravagant contents of his writing surpassed even his worst
expectations.  Wallenstein required the uncontrolled command over all the German armies of
Austria and Spain, with unlimited powers to reward and punish.  Neither the King of Hungary,
nor the Emperor himself, were to appear in the army, still less to exercise any act of authority
over it.  No commission in the army, no pension or letter of grace, was to be granted by the
Emperor without Wallenstein's approval. All the conquests and confiscations that should take
place, were to be placed entirely at Wallenstein's disposal, to the exclusion of every other
tribunal.  For his ordinary pay, an imperial hereditary estate was to be assigned him, with
another of the conquered estates within the empire for his extraordinary expenses.  Every Austrian
province was to be opened to him if he required it in case of retreat.  He farther demanded
the assurance of the possession of the Duchy of Mecklenburg, in the event of a future peace;
and a formal and timely intimation, if it should be deemed necessary a second time to deprive
him of the command.

In vain the minister entreated him to moderate his demands, which, if granted, would deprive
the Emperor of all authority over his own troops, and make him absolutely dependent on his
general.  The value placed on his services had been too plainly manifested to prevent him dictating
the price at which they were to be purchased.  If the pressure of circumstances compelled the
Emperor to grant these demands, it was more than a mere feeling of haughtiness and desire of
revenge which induced the duke to make them.  His plans of rebellion were formed, to their
success, every one of the conditions for which Wallenstein stipulated in this treaty with the
court, was indispensable.  Those plans required that the Emperor should be deprived of all
authority in Germany, and be placed at the mercy of his general; and this object would be attained,
the moment Ferdinand subscribed the required conditions.  The use which Wallenstein intended
to make of his army, (widely different indeed from that for which it was entrusted to him,)
brooked not of a divided power, and still less of an authority superior to his own.  To be
the sole master of the will of his troops, he must also be the sole master of their destinies;
insensibly to supplant his sovereign, and to transfer permanently to his own person the rights
of sovereignty, which were only lent to him for a time by a higher authority, he must cautiously
keep the latter out of the view of the army.  Hence his obstinate refusal to allow any prince
of the house of Austria to be present with the army. The liberty of free disposal of all the
conquered and confiscated estates in the empire, would also afford him fearful means of purchasing
dependents and instruments of his plans, and of acting the dictator in Germany more absolutely
than ever any Emperor did in time of peace.  By the right to use any of the Austrian provinces
as a place of refuge, in case of need, he had full power to hold the Emperor a prisoner by
means of his own forces, and within his own dominions; to exhaust the strength and resources
of these countries, and to undermine the power of Austria in its very foundation.

Whatever might be the issue, he had equally secured his own advantage, by the conditions he
had extorted from the Emperor.  If circumstances proved favourable to his daring project, this
treaty with the Emperor facilitated its execution; if on the contrary, the course of things
ran counter to it, it would at least afford him a brilliant compensation for the failure of
his plans.  But how could he consider an agreement valid, which was extorted from his sovereign,
and based upon treason? How could he hope to bind the Emperor by a written agreement, in the
face of a law which condemned to death every one who should have the presumption to impose
conditions upon him?  But this criminal was the most indispensable man in the empire, and Ferdinand,
well practised in dissimulation, granted him for the present all he required.

At last, then, the imperial army had found a commander-in-chief worthy of the name.  Every
other authority in the army, even that of the Emperor himself, ceased from the moment Wallenstein
assumed the commander's baton, and every act was invalid which did not proceed from him.  From
the banks of the Danube, to those of the Weser and the Oder, was felt the life-giving dawning
of this new star; a new spirit seemed to inspire the troops of the emperor, a new epoch of
the war began.  The Papists form fresh hopes, the Protestant beholds with anxiety the changed
course of affairs.

The greater the price at which the services of the new general had been purchased, the greater
justly were the expectations from those which the court of the Emperor entertained.  But the
duke was in no hurry to fulfil these expectations.  Already in the vicinity of Bohemia, and
at the head of a formidable force, he had but to show himself there, in order to overpower
the exhausted force of the Saxons, and brilliantly to commence his new career by the reconquest
of that kingdom.  But, contented with harassing the enemy with indecisive skirmishes of his
Croats, he abandoned the best part of that kingdom to be plundered, and moved calmly forward
in pursuit of his own selfish plans.  His design was, not to conquer the Saxons, but to unite
with them.  Exclusively occupied with this important object, he remained inactive in the hope
of conquering more surely by means of negociation.  He left no expedient untried, to detach
this prince from the Swedish alliance; and Ferdinand himself, ever inclined to an accommodation
with this prince, approved of this proceeding.  But the great debt which Saxony owed to Sweden,
was as yet too freshly remembered to allow of such an act of perfidy; and even had the Elector
been disposed to yield to the temptation, the equivocal character of Wallenstein, and the bad
character of Austrian policy, precluded any reliance in the integrity of its promises.  Notorious
already as a treacherous statesman, he met not with faith upon the very occasion when perhaps
he intended to act honestly; and, moreover, was denied, by circumstances, the opportunity of
proving the sincerity of his intentions, by the disclosure of his real motives.

He, therefore, unwillingly resolved to extort, by force of arms, what he could not obtain by
negociation.  Suddenly assembling his troops, he appeared before Prague ere the Saxons had
time to advance to its relief. After a short resistance, the treachery of some Capuchins opens
the gates to one of his regiments; and the garrison, who had taken refuge in the citadel, soon
laid down their arms upon disgraceful conditions. Master of the capital, he hoped to carry
on more successfully his negociations at the Saxon court; but even while he was renewing his
proposals to Arnheim, he did not hesitate to give them weight by striking a decisive blow.
He hastened to seize the narrow passes between Aussig and Pirna, with a view of cutting off
the retreat of the Saxons into their own country; but the rapidity of Arnheim's operations
fortunately extricated them from the danger.  After the retreat of this general, Egra and Leutmeritz,
the last strongholds of the Saxons, surrendered to the conqueror:  and the whole kingdom was
restored to its legitimate sovereign, in less time than it had been lost.

Wallenstein, less occupied with the interests of his master, than with the furtherance of his
own plans, now purposed to carry the war into Saxony, and by ravaging his territories, compel
the Elector to enter into a private treaty with the Emperor, or rather with himself.  But,
however little accustomed he was to make his will bend to circumstances, he now perceived the
necessity of postponing his favourite scheme for a time, to a more pressing emergency.  While
he was driving the Saxons from Bohemia, Gustavus Adolphus had been gaining the victories, already
detailed, on the Rhine and the Danube, and carried the war through Franconia and Swabia, to
the frontiers of Bavaria.  Maximilian, defeated on the Lech, and deprived by death of Count
Tilly, his best support, urgently solicited the Emperor to send with all speed the Duke of
Friedland to his assistance, from Bohemia, and by the defence of Bavaria, to avert the danger
from Austria itself. The is that question with the whole men have a theories, but they are still main.
Why do birds seek extremes for surrendering sites? One scarcity is that once the country had many
spring and a species was sent of birds lived all the instinct in places as are soon unsuitable of
residence.

Now, the stress with the fate being so possible, though they were driven in their nesting sites
by one home of food and theory for climate, their year till he led them back towards now that
the aid of weather him made it strong.  The remembrance of the evil service which Maximilian had rendered
him with the Emperor, at the Diet at Ratisbon, was deeply engraved on the implacable mind of
the duke, and the Elector's late attempts to prevent his reinstatement, were no secret to him.
The moment of revenging this affront had now arrived, and Maximilian was doomed to pay dearly
for his folly, in provoking the most revengeful of men.  Wallenstein maintained, that Bohemia
ought not to be left exposed, and that Austria could not be better protected, than by allowing
the Swedish army to waste its strength before the Bavarian fortress.  Thus, by the arm of the
Swedes, he chastised his enemy; and while one place after another fell into their hands, he
allowed the Elector vainly to await his arrival in Ratisbon.  It was only when the complete
subjugation of Bohemia left him without excuse, and the conquests of Gustavus Adolphus in Bavaria
threatened Austria itself, that he yielded to the pressing entreaties of the Elector and the
Emperor, and determined to effect the long-expected union with the former; an event, which,
according to the general anticipation of the Roman Catholics, would decide the fate of the
campaign.

Gustavus Adolphus, too weak in numbers to cope even with Wallenstein's force alone, naturally
dreaded the junction of such powerful armies, and the little energy he used to prevent it,
was the occasion of great surprise.  Apparently he reckoned too much on the hatred which alienated
the leaders, and seemed to render their effectual co-operation improbable; when the event contradicted
his views, it was too late to repair his error.  On the first certain intelligence he received
of their designs, he hastened to the Upper Palatinate, for the purpose of intercepting the
Elector:  but the latter had already arrived there, and the junction had been effected at Egra.

This frontier town had been chosen by Wallenstein, for the scene of his triumph over his proud
rival.  Not content with having seen him, as it were, a suppliant at his feet, he imposed upon
him the hard condition of leaving his territories in his rear exposed to the enemy, and declaring
by this long march to meet him, the necessity and distress to which he was reduced.  Even to
this humiliation, the haughty prince patiently submitted.  It had cost him a severe struggle
to ask for protection of the man who, if his own wishes had been consulted, would never have
had the power of granting it:  but having once made up his mind to it, he was ready to bear
all the annoyances which were inseparable from that resolve, and sufficiently master of himself
to put up with petty grievances, when an important end was in view.

But whatever pains it had cost to effect this junction, it was equally difficult to settle
the conditions on which it was to be maintained. The united army must be placed under the command
of one individual, if any object was to be gained by the union, and each general was equally
averse to yield to the superior authority of the other.  If Maximilian rested his claim on
his electoral dignity, the nobleness of his descent, and his influence in the empire, Wallenstein's
military renown, and the unlimited command conferred on him by the Emperor, gave an equally
strong title to it.  If it was deeply humiliating to the pride of the former to serve under
an imperial subject, the idea of imposing laws on so imperious a spirit, flattered in the same
degree the haughtiness of Wallenstein.  An obstinate dispute ensued, which, however, terminated
in a mutual compromise to Wallenstein's advantage.  To him was assigned the unlimited command
of both armies, particularly in battle, while the Elector was deprived of all power of altering
the order of battle, or even the route of the army.  He retained only the bare right of punishing
and rewarding his own troops, and the free use of these, when not acting in conjunction with
the Imperialists.

After these preliminaries were settled, the two generals at last ventured upon an interview;
but not until they had mutually promised to bury the past in oblivion, and all the outward
formalities of a reconciliation had been settled.  According to agreement, they publicly embraced
in the sight of their troops, and made mutual professions of friendship, while in reality the
hearts of both were overflowing with malice.  Maximilian, well versed in dissimulation, had
sufficient command over himself, not to betray in a single feature his real feelings; but a
malicious triumph sparkled in the eyes of Wallenstein, and the constraint which was visible
in all his movements, betrayed the violence of the emotion which overpowered his proud soul.

The combined Imperial and Bavarian armies amounted to nearly 60,000 men, chiefly veterans.
Before this force, the King of Sweden was not in a condition to keep the field.  As his attempt
to prevent their junction had failed, he commenced a rapid retreat into Franconia, and awaited
there for some decisive movement on the part of the enemy, in order to form his own plans.
The position of the combined armies between the frontiers of Saxony and Bavaria, left it for
some time doubtful whether they would remove the war into the former, or endeavour to drive
the Swedes from the Danube, and deliver Bavaria.  Saxony had been stripped of troops by Arnheim,
who was pursuing his conquests in Silesia; not without a secret design, it was generally supposed,
of favouring the entrance of the Duke of Friedland into that electorate, and of thus driving
the irresolute John George into peace with the Emperor. Gustavus Adolphus himself, fully persuaded
that Wallenstein's views were directed against Saxony, hastily despatched a strong reinforcement
to the assistance of his confederate, with the intention, as soon as circumstances would allow,
of following with the main body.  But the movements of Wallenstein's army soon led him to suspect
that he himself was the object of attack; and the Duke's march through the Upper Palatinate,
placed the matter beyond a doubt.  The question now was, how to provide for his own security,
and the prize was no longer his supremacy, but his very existence.  His fertile genius must
now supply the means, not of conquest, but of preservation.  The approach of the enemy had
surprised him before he had time to concentrate his troops, which were scattered all over Germany,
or to summon his allies to his aid.  Too weak to meet the enemy in the field, he had no choice
left, but either to throw himself into Nuremberg, and run the risk of being shut up in its
walls, or to sacrifice that city, and await a reinforcement under the cannon of Donauwerth.
Indifferent to danger or difficulty, while he obeyed the call of humanity or honour, he chose
the first without hesitation, firmly resolved to bury himself with his whole army under the
ruins of Nuremberg, rather than to purchase his own safety by the sacrifice of his confederates.

Measures were immediately taken to surround the city and suburbs with redoubts, and to form
an entrenched camp.  Several thousand workmen immediately commenced this extensive work, and
an heroic determination to hazard life and property in the common cause, animated the inhabitants
of Nuremberg.  A trench, eight feet deep and twelve broad, surrounded the whole fortification;
the lines were defended by redoubts and batteries, the gates by half moons.  The river Pegnitz,
which flows through Nuremberg, divided the whole camp into two semicircles, whose communication
was secured by several bridges.  About three hundred pieces of cannon defended the town-walls
and the intrenchments.  The peasantry from the neighbouring villages, and the inhabitants of
Nuremberg, assisted the Swedish soldiers so zealously, that on the seventh day the army was
able to enter the camp, and, in a fortnight, this great work was completed.

