Scarcely were they in a safe port and rested, however, when great tidings flew abroad. How
did such news travel? Ship told it unto ship, village sent word to village, perhaps signal-fires
flashed it on from headland to headland, that in the north there was a great gathering of men
of war, which always in those days meant battle. Hence Ulf wisely thought it well to fare northward
himself and learn at first hand what it was all about. His hair was a little gray, now, and
thin in spots where the helmet pressed; but his brain was just as ready for wise, long-headed
plans as ever; and by his side a tall, slender lad now held his shield and guarded him when
shafts were flying, and Ulf's own bow was bent. He, too, was one of the silent; yet, when asked,
said he was Wulf, the son of Ulf of Sigurd's Vik.

So, one morning just at sunrise the flag of the White Bear's Head was floating in the land
breeze, as the longship made its way into harbour among a vast fleet of other craft,--so vast
that Wulf was surprised into speech, and Ulf himself admitted that he never had seen the like.
The shore was one great camp; an army gathered; and Ulf found himself nodding greeting to many
an old acquaintance as they shouldered through it, Wulf and he, straight for the heart of the
throng; Ulf still carrying in one hand his unbent sea-bow, and Wulf, the long, straight, two-handed
sword of his father, as well as his own keen axe --of Star steel, both.

Under a large tent a consultation of leaders was going on, and a dark, thick-set, angry-looking
man was laying down the law to them in the strongest words he knew--and he knew a great many--when
Ulf strode in. The captain stopped. Flashes of recognition shot into a face here and there;
a wrathful growl came from one group, in the back of which was the mean, crafty face of Thorfin
the Viking. Then the dark man strode sharply forward with a hearty greeting.

"What, Ulf the Silent? So you too will help an old comrade? This is well indeed. But what are
these fellows growling about, like so many white-toothed mastiffs?"

"I've met their mates and them at Sigurd's Vik," quoth Ulf. "These few are what were left,"
and the other roared with laughter.

"You are the man I want, to keep these wild blades in order. A man like you is needed over
them. I make you a sea-king here and now, and my clerk shall give you it in writing." And a
sea-king Ulf was from that day, or, as we should now call it, "admiral,"--that is to say, a
captain over other captains. It made Thorfin very angry, but since he cared a great deal for
his own skin, he took considerable pains to keep in good order for many a day to come.

"But first," said Ulf, cautiously, "Tell me what this is all about."

Now those were the days when a king looked on his kingdom very much as though it was his private
farm. It, and the people in it, existed chiefly for his sole benefit; and if they objected,
so much the worse for the people. So, when Duke William of Normandy told Ulf a long story about
his troubles, how Edward the Confessor, King of England and his cousin, had promised that when
he died he would leave the kingdom to William, Ulf saw nothing strange in that.

Why should not a man give a farm to his cousin when he died, especially when that cousin's
wife, Matilda, was another cousin? Then Harold, Duke of Wessex, had sworn by a whole tubful
of relics of dead saints that when Edward died he would not stand in William's way. That, too,
was a great thing to do. A promise ought to be kept to the letter, and how much more a sacred
oath like that!--although men do say that Harold did not know there was a relic within a mile
of him at the time he gave the promise.

But that promise Harold had not kept. On the contrary, he had claimed, first, that when he
made it he had been shipwrecked on the Norman coast; he was really a prisoner, and gave the
promise that he might get away; which as a matter of honour but made a bad matter worse.

Then, more reasonably, from our point of view, he claimed that the kingdom of England belonged
to the English, and was not his to give. Englishmen had made him King, not William, and that
was the end of it,--an answer which was likely to drive William nearly wild. And it did. William
swore a great oath that before he died he would be King of all England. And Ulf, with many
another, promised to help him.

Then Ulf went straight back to his ship again and that very night set a double guard as anchor-watch,
for never in all his life, he said, had he seen so many thieves together at one time, and so
few honest men. All of those same thieves and the other few presently set sail across the channel;
and, odd to say, to this day there are men who proudly claim that a very far back ancestor
of theirs "came over with William the Conqueror." But perhaps they have made themselves believe
that that particular person was one of those honest ones.

Ulf talked it over with young Wulf in the first watch that night.

"If England were one 'twould be a mad voyage," he said. "Mind thou this, Wulf, when thou art
captain, one arrow can be broken. Two also. But to break a bundle is another matter. This Harold
is a strong man, but he has only a part of the country behind him. His own brother, Tostig,
has raised a fleet against him, Thor knows where."

"His brother?" and Wulf stared in amaze.

"So William says, and he is a fox. Tostig is a hothead; he cannot govern himself, so of course
he cannot rule others. He was made lord of the Northumbrians because of his royal blood, but
they were men, not thralls, and presently told him that his health would be better in another
land. Then he looked to Harold to help him with an army, but Harold found the Northumbrians
were so much in the right of it that Tostig's rule was over, for help him he could not with
any show of justice. Now, then, Tostig is sailing with the King of Norway, to raid the northern
coasts."

"What! is Harold Hardrada of Norway with us too?"

"So William says. Harold Hardrada, the 'stern in council' is to strike at the mouth of the
river Humber, while we land in the south country. It is easier so."

And it was. For the old story-tellers say that Harold of England marched with his army, night
and day, to meet the raiders of Tostig; and with twenty of his house-guards he rode far ahead,
hoping to meet and have peace with his brother and save England. Almost he succeeded, also,
for he gave him a brother's welcome, a brother's love; promised him lands and a share in government;
and Tostig was well-nigh persuaded. But he was in bad company. He had brought over this band
of cutthroats, with the greatest of them all at their head, under promise of unlimited plunder.
And now what about them? So he had to put the question to his brother.

"What shall be the share of my--friend, Harold Hardrada, who has come so far for me?" Then,
they say, Harold of England gave a right royal answer. What was to be the share of this pirate?

"Seven feet of English ground for a grave. Or, as he is said to be a very tall man, perhaps
we can allow him a little more."

If you would like to know more about Harold Hardrada, and what he did in his youth among the
Turks at Constantinople, you can read a great deal in Sir Walter Scott's novel, "Count Robert
of Paris," some of which, perhaps, is true. But, great fighter though he was, now was the time
for his last battle; and on September 25, 1066, at Stamford- bridge, Harold of England met
him and put him into the "seven feet of English ground" which he had promised him. It was a
great victory, yet a sad one; for Tostig had refused the terms and fell fighting against his
own countrymen, to be buried with the pirates whom he had captained. And in the South at Pevensey,
four days later, William was landing.

Down came Harold from his victory, weary with fighting, weary with marching, yet sternly earnest
to drive back the invaders and save the land from being harried, if he could. But October was
half through before he met them at Hastings. All day long, on the 14th, they fought, and Harold
held his own, though with the smaller army. Each man knew his place, and kept it, and William
found them a wall of iron. At last his captains passed the word for a false retreat. The Saxons
of Harold, with cheers, broke ranks to pursue, when round wheeled the Normans like hawks and
plunged among them. Then came the crashing of battle-axe on helmet, and like a long, slow wave,
the Norman line swept onward and the Saxon helms went down. A brief check around the summit
of a hill, where Harold and his guards had rallied, --then arrows sped in flights upward to
fall straight down among them. Their ranks were broken. And one by one each fell like a soldier
in soldierly fashion where he stood with the loved captain among them. Just as, eight hundred
years afterward in America fell the blue-clad soldiers around their general, Custer, fighting
the Sioux Indians on the Western plains.

Thus William the Conqueror began to conquer England, and when he ended England was his own.
Everywhere his captains built their castles, and where that captain was a Thorfin it was bad
for the land. Still, now and then there was an Ulf among them, or one like him, who knew better
how to govern; and all was well with them and theirs for many days.

Do you care to know what next the fragments of our Star beheld?

SPARK X.

HOW THE STAR SANG A SONG OF FREEDOM TO A CAPTIVE KING.

Once again all England was under one King. It was a sad time for the English, for the word
of the Northman was the law, and wherever there seemed need for it, a grim, gray castle towered
up solidly above the forest, with a great ditch, called a moat, dug around it; and behind that
water and those walls of stone lived Normans, as they now were called.

Ulf, like the others, had his castle, and governed broad lands; but so well, and so well did
Wulf and Wulf's son in his time, that nothing of note ever happened there, and therefore nobody
ever heard of them. No man's house was burned by them with the owner in it. No one's cattle
were carried off to the use of the castle without just payment. No one was killed without good
cause, or what, in those days, was thought to be good cause. So this part of England lived
long in placid quiet. There was no other castle within long marches through forest and bogland
hard to pass over; and, for all of Ulf's peacefulness, if Thorfin, or some of his mates, wanted
excitement, and thought it would be a good day to ride out and harry the land or besiege the
home of a neighbour, someone would remember the old, old days around Sigurd's Vik, and suggest
that to-morrow would be a better day than this to visit Ulf; the to-morrow that never came.

Daneshold they called it now; that is to say, the home, or hold of the Danes; and since they
now spoke Norman-French more often than Saxon- English or Danish, Wulf's son was named Loup,
which was pretty good French for "wolf;" and one more generation fled away under his rule,
with nothing to record. Then came the day of his son in turn; Louis, or as he was now called
in the new fashion, Louis of Daneshold.

