Pappenheim died the next day of his wounds at Leipzig; an irreparable loss to the imperial
army, which this brave warrior had so often led on to victory.  The battle of Prague, where,
together with Wallenstein, he was present as colonel, was the beginning of his heroic career.
Dangerously wounded, with a few troops, he made an impetuous attack on a regiment of the enemy,
and lay for several hours mixed with the dead upon the field, beneath the weight of his horse,
till he was discovered by some of his own men in plundering.  With a small force he defeated,
in three different engagements, the rebels in Upper Austria, though 40,000 strong.  At the
battle of Leipzig, he for a long time delayed the defeat of Tilly by his bravery, and led the
arms of the Emperor on the Elbe and the Weser to victory.  The wild impetuous fire of his temperament,
which no danger, however apparent, could cool, or impossibilities check, made him the most
powerful arm of the imperial force, but unfitted him for acting at its head.  The battle of
Leipzig, if Tilly may be believed, was lost through his rash ardour.  At the destruction of
Magdeburg, his hands were deeply steeped in blood; war rendered savage and ferocious his disposition,
which had been cultivated by youthful studies and various travels.  On his forehead, two red
streaks, like swords, were perceptible, with which nature had marked him at his very birth.
Even in his later years, these became visible, as often as his blood was stirred by passion;
and superstition easily persuaded itself, that the future destiny of the man was thus impressed
upon the forehead of the child.  As a faithful servant of the House of Austria, he had the
strongest claims on the gratitude of both its lines, but he did not survive to enjoy the most
brilliant proof of their regard.  A messenger was already on his way from Madrid, bearing to
him the order of the Golden Fleece, when death overtook him at Leipzig.

Though Te Deum, in all Spanish and Austrian lands, was sung in honour of a victory, Wallenstein
himself, by the haste with which he quitted Leipzig, and soon after all Saxony, and by renouncing
his original design of fixing there his winter quarters, openly confessed his defeat. It is
true he made one more feeble attempt to dispute, even in his flight, the honour of victory,
by sending out his Croats next morning to the field; but the sight of the Swedish army drawn
up in order of battle, immediately dispersed these flying bands, and Duke Bernard, by keeping
possession of the field, and soon after by the capture of Leipzig, maintained indisputably
his claim to the title of victor.

But it was a dear conquest, a dearer triumph!  It was not till the fury of the contest was
over, that the full weight of the loss sustained was felt, and the shout of triumph died away
into a silent gloom of despair. He, who had led them to the charge, returned not with them;
there he lay upon the field which he had won, mingled with the dead bodies of the common crowd.
After a long and almost fruitless search, the corpse of the king was discovered, not far from
the great stone, which, for a hundred years before, had stood between Lutzen and the Canal,
and which, from the memorable disaster of that day, still bears the name of the Stone of the
Swede.  Covered with blood and wounds, so as scarcely to be recognised, trampled beneath the
horses' hoofs, stripped by the rude hands of plunderers of its ornaments and clothes, his body
was drawn from beneath a heap of dead, conveyed to Weissenfels, and there delivered up to the
lamentations of his soldiers, and the last embraces of his queen.  The first tribute had been
paid to revenge, and blood had atoned for the blood of the monarch; but now affection assumes
its rights, and tears of grief must flow for the man.  The universal sorrow absorbs all individual
woes.  The generals, still stupefied by the unexpected blow, stood speechless and motionless
around his bier, and no one trusted himself enough to contemplate the full extent of their loss.

The Emperor, we are told by Khevenhuller, showed symptoms of deep, and apparently sincere feeling,
at the sight of the king's doublet stained with blood, which had been stripped from him during
the battle, and carried to Vienna.  "Willingly," said he, "would I have granted to the unfortunate
prince a longer life, and a safe return to his kingdom, had Germany been at peace."  But when
a trait, which is nothing more than a proof of a yet lingering humanity, and which a mere regard
to appearances and even self-love, would have extorted from the most insensible, and the absence
of which could exist only in the most inhuman heart, has, by a Roman Catholic writer of modern
times and acknowledged merit, been made the subject of the highest eulogium, and compared with
the magnanimous tears of Alexander, for the fall of Darius, our distrust is excited of the
other virtues of the writer's hero, and what is still worse, of his own ideas of moral dignity.
But even such praise, whatever its amount, is much for one, whose memory his biographer has
to clear from the suspicion of being privy to the assassination of a king.

It was scarcely to be expected, that the strong leaning of mankind to the marvellous, would
leave to the common course of nature the glory of ending the career of Gustavus Adolphus. 
The death of so formidable a rival was too important an event for the Emperor, not to excite
in his bitter opponent a ready suspicion, that what was so much to his interests, was also
the result of his instigation.  For the execution, however, of this dark deed, the Emperor
would require the aid of a foreign arm, and this it was generally believed he had found in
Francis Albert, Duke of Saxe Lauenburg.  The rank of the latter permitted him a free access
to the king's person, while it at the same time seemed to place him above the suspicion of
so foul a deed.  This prince, however, was in fact not incapable of this atrocity, and he had
moreover sufficient motives for its commission.

