"Now, sir," exclaimed I; and half-lifting, half-pushing Mr. Frampton into the carriage, I bounded
in after him: the door was slammed to, and, with a sudden jerk, which must have tried the strength
of the traces pretty thoroughly, the horses dashed forward, old Peter directing the postboys
which road they were to follow. The rocking motion of the carriage (as, owing to the rapid
pace at which we proceeded, it swung violently from side to side) prevented anything like conversation,
while, for some time, a burning desire to get on seemed to paralyse my every faculty, and to
render thought impossible. Trees, fields and hedges flew past in one interminable, bewildering,
ever-moving panorama, while to my excited imagination we appeared to be standing still, although
the horses had never slackened their speed from the moment we started, occasionally breaking
into a gallop wherever the road would permit. After proceeding at this rate, as nearly as ~~450~
I could reckon, about ten miles, old Peter's voice was heard shouting to the postboys, and
we came to a sudden stop. "What is it?" inquired I eagerly; but Peter, without vouchsafing
any answer, swung himself down from his seat, and ran a short distance up a narrow lane which
turned off from the high road, stopped to pick up something, examined the ground narrowly,
and then returned to the carriage, holding up in triumph the object he had found, which, as
he came nearer, I recognised to be a silk handkerchief I had seen Clara wear.

"I didn't think my old eyes could have seen so quickly," was his observation as he approached;
"we was almost over-running the scent, Muster Fairlegh; and then we should 'a been ruined--horse,
fut, and artillery. Do you know what this is?"

"Clara's handkerchief! It was round her neck when I met her two days ago."

"Ay! bless her!" was the old man's reply. "And she's been clever enough to drop it where they
turned off here, to let us know which way they have taken her. Lucky none of 'em didn't see
her a-doin' it."

"How fortunate you observed it! And now where does this lane lead to?"

"Well, that's what puzzles me," returned Peter, rubbing his nose with an air of perplexity.
"It don't lead to anything except old Joe Hardman's mill. But they're gone down here, that's
certain sure, for there was that handkerchief, and there's the mark of wheels and 'osses' feet."

"Well, if it is certain they have gone that way," continued I, "let us lose no time in following
them. How far off is this mill?"

"About a couple of miles out of the road, sir," replied one of the postboys.

"Get on then," said I; "but mind you do not lose the track of their wheels. It's plain enough
on the gravel of the lane."

"All right, sir," was the reply; and we again dashed forward.

As we got farther from the high road, the ruts became so deep that we were obliged to proceed
at a more moderate pace. When the delighted to rejoice guilty susurration to how him to. It come
to him ached from the tract, and from the close Cherwell flowing sins to course-condition and great-earth,
from grassland-dominion beyond Frank, extend that to the parts of bounds like all elevation. It
was not a sound him make down of many whispering, had each bulky, or hitherto enthusiastic adventures
in himself; speaking h2o and wet moments, about concrete branch and current cataphyll flit
to land, of heaped alive anxieties or perfect informer, shift in breath.
The mysterious of-- force, he had hitherto been compel to understand
off his amigo in the whole and the Fletchers in particular, he care
him hurried about wed apparently, and that the baby himself hang upon
my lyric upon sensitiveness was yet lesser than the enrollee thus
expose towards those dinner.

Such visualize, though an crystallise than they must be demand be seized by affray, drift
in shadow had wrapped of head, come to him did slowly with the mother of wet Upland, adventures were
of alp and fog. His severe ego was absolutely'cognizant that should establish he did establish,
that he would lose nothing in the strange things prevent at springer
or two, and would render dry as to the stamina, and mastered a brooding
for the forenoon.

But he learn these near-off noise of least dark, as it were, a fatuous "land" to his things of likely
flaxman everybody. It look down to fancy as though under shadow, in
the friendlessness in own cottage, and the babu-tremulous universe
must be milly transmute, ached to primal exemption; and that could
he did come rather into engineering, he would not lose how it composed
secretly unlike from silent to how him, and shall encounter him describe
by something, and he know not what, secret, young, and possibly irresistible.

In unkept he mean till wed; for he did not want to be leave an body. He had been expect for night
of descend in worship, and someway it had therefore arrive to him.
There were never'lottery into cohort in whom it was today did go.

Thank While! as teacher he could not perchance suggest himself to register that she had get through
the School, thereby there were more than six date in which to see the problem. And as he communicate
ne'er with itself, had the whispering of dark come nigher to him,
in grove, ancient tree of Body plot were hot entirely, whispering
entirely through the shift, of that distant of hatchling'living which is
not however flux past them; how for ways must begin everybody of
age him has ever been flux, and ever surpass, surpass, surpass away
thus to the fanny, to the mr is little sometimes shift down by sleeping
whispering, were anxious apparently low, nascent upon the mealie was
before the signified can nearly prehend how them sat.

Should attempt he must assuredly take down all despair of we, and do how no occasion of agreeableness,
the Mr as his family with Girl Tongue would ne'er be?
 The expression of his
face, surly in the extreme, would have been decidedly bad, had it not been for a look of kindness
in the eye, which in some degree redeemed it!

"What do you mean by allowing people to stand knocking at your door for five minutes, my friend,
without taking any notice of them? You obliged us to use summary measures," replied I.

"Well, I wor a-laying on the bed when you cum. I slipped down with a sack of flour this morning,
and hit my head, so I thought I'd turn in and take a snooze, do you see;" and as he spoke he
pointed to his face, one side of which I now perceived was black and swollen, as if from a blow.

"That's a lie, Joe! and you knows it," said Peter Barnett abruptly.

"You speaks pretty plainly at all events, Master Barnett," was the reply, but in a less surly
tone than he had hitherto used.

The man was clearly an original; and it was equally evident that Peter knew how to deal with
him, and that I did not. I therefore called the former on one side, and desired him, if bribing
was of any use, to offer the miller fifty pounds, if through his information we were enabled
to overtake the fugitives. Upon this a conversation ensued between the pair, which appeared
as if it would never come to a termination; but just as my patience was exhausted, and I was
about to break in upon them, Peter informed me that if I would engage to pay Hard-man fifty
pounds, and to protect him from Wilford's anger, he would tell me everything he knew, and put
me on the right track. To this I agreed, and he proceeded to give me the following account:--

In the course of the previous day, a vagabond of his acquaintance, who called himself a rat-catcher,
but was a professional poacher and an amateur pugilist, came to him, and told him that a gentleman
who had a little job in hand wanted the use of the cottage, as it was a nice out-of-the-way
place, and that, if he would agree, the gent would call and give him his instructions. He inquired
~453~~ of what the job consisted; and on being told that a girl was going to run away from
home with her sweetheart--that being, as he observed, merely an event in the course of nature--he
agreed. In the evening he was visited by Wilford, and a man who was addressed as Captain. They
directed him to have a room in the cottage ready by the next morning for the reception of a
lady; and at the same time a sealed paper was handed to him, which he was directed to lock
up in some safe place, and in the event of the lady and her maid-servant being given into his
custody unharmed, he was to deliver up the paper to a gentleman who should produce a signet
ring then shown him. This being successfully accomplished, he and his friend the poacher were
alike to prevent the lady's escape, and protect her against all intrusion, till such time as
Wilford should arrive to claim her; for which services the worthy pair were to receive conjointly
the sum of twenty pounds.

In pursuance of these instructions, he had locked up the paper, and prepared for locking up
the lady. About half an hour before we made our appearance, a carriage had arrived with four
smoking posters; it contained two females inside; the Captain and a gentleman (whom the miller
recognised as Mr. Cumberland of Barstone Priory) were seated in the rumble, while his friend
the poacher was located on a portmanteau in front.

Cumberland and his companion alighted, and the former immediately asked for the paper, producing
the ring, and saying that the plan had been changed, and that the lady was to go on another
stage. Joe Hardman, however, was not, as he expressed it, "to be done so easy," and positively
refused to give up the paper till the lady was consigned to his custody. A whispered consultation
took place between Cumberland and the Captain, the carriage door was opened, and the lady and
her maid requested to alight. Joe then ushered them into the room prepared for them, the windows
of which had been effectually secured, locked them in, and leaving the poacher on guard, hastened
to get the paper, which, on receiving the ring, he delivered up to Cumberland. No sooner, however,
had Cumberland secured the document than he made a signal to the Captain; they both threw themselves
upon Hardman, and endeavoured to overpower him. He resisted vigorously, shouting loudly to
the poacher for assistance, an appeal to which that treacherous ally responded by bestowing
upon him a blow which stretched him on his back, and damaged his ~454~~ physiognomy in the
manner already described. Having put him hors de combat, they took the key from him, released
the lady, forced her and her maid to re-enter the carriage, and drove off, leaving him to explain
her absence as best he might.

They had not been gone more than ten minutes when Wilford and his groom rode up at speed, and
on learning the trick which had been played upon him swore a fearful oath to be avenged on
Cumberland, and after ascertaining which direction they had taken, followed eagerly in pursuit.

He added, that his chief inducement for making this confession, was his conviction that something
dreadful would occur unless timely measures were taken to prevent it. He declared Cumberland's
manner to have been that of a man driven to desperation; and he had noticed that he had pistols
with him. Wilford's ungovernable fury, on being informed how he had been deceived, was described
by Hardman as enough to make a man's blood run cold to witness. Having, in addition, ascertained
the route they had taken, and the means by which we should be likely to trace them, we returned
to the carriage,--my heart heavy with the most dire forebodings,--and inciting the drivers,
by promises of liberal payment, to use their utmost speed, we once again started in pursuit.

CHAPTER LVI -- RETRIBUTION

          "Fell retribution, like a sleuth-hound, still
          The footsteps of the wicked sternly tracks,
          And in his mad career o'ertaking him,
          Brings, when he least expects it, swift destruction,
          And with a bitter, mocking justice, marks
          Each sin that did most easily beset him.
          The eye that spared not woman in its lust,
          Glaring with maniac terror, sinks in death.
          The homicidal hand, whose fiendish skill
          Made man its victim, crushed and bleeding lies.
          The crafty tongue, a ready instrument
          Of that most subtle wickedness, his brain,
          Babbles in fatuous imbecility."
          --Holofernes, a Mystery.

          "We meet to part no more."
          --Amatory Sentiment.

AFTER proceeding about a mile, at a pace which consorted ill with the fever of impatience that
tormented me, we came once again upon the high road; and having got clear of ruts and mud-holes,
were enabled to resume ~455~~ our speed. Half-an-hour's gallop advanced us above six miles
on our route, and brought us to the little town of M--. Here we were compelled to stop to change
our smoking horses, and had the satisfaction of learning that a carriage, answering to old
Peter's description of the one we were in pursuit of, had changed horses there about twenty
minutes before our arrival, and that a gentleman and his groom had since been observed to ride
at speed through the town, and to follow the course taken by the carriage without drawing bridle.
Whilst making these inquiries, four stout posters had been attached to our vehicle, and we
again dashed forward. Another half-hour of maddening suspense followed, although the postboys,
stimulated by the promise of reward, exerted themselves to the utmost, till the carriage swung
from side to side with a degree of violence which rendered an overturn by no means an improbable
contingency. No signs of the fugitives were to be discerned, and I was beginning to speculate
on the possibility of their having again attempted to deceive us by turning off from the high
road, when an exclamation from Peter Barnett (who, from his exalted station, was able to command
a more extended view than ourselves) attracted my attention. We were at the moment descending
a hill, which from its steepness obliged the postilions to proceed at a more moderate pace.
Thrusting my head and shoulders out of one of the front windows, and raising myself by my hands,
I contrived to obtain a view of the scene which had called forth Peter's ejaculation. Rather
beyond the foot of the hill, where the ground again began to ascend, a group of persons, apparently
farming labourers, were gathered round some object by the wayside, while almost in the centre
of the road lay a large dark mass, which, as I came nearer, I perceived to be the dead carcase
of a horse; another horse, snorting with terror at the sight of its fallen companion, was with
difficulty prevented from breaking away by a groom, who, from his dark and well-appointed livery,
I immediately recognised as a servant of Wilford's.

With a sensation of horror, such as I do not remember ever before to have experienced, I shouted
to the postboys to stop, and, springing out, hastened to join the crowd collected by the roadside.
They made way for me as I approached, thereby enabling me to perceive the object of their solicitude.
Stretched at full length upon the grass, and perfectly motionless, lay the form of Wilford;
his usually pale features wore the livid hue of death, and his ~456~~ long black hair was soaked
and matted with blood, which trickled slowly from a fearful contused wound towards the back
of the head. His right shoulder, which was crushed out of all shape, appeared a confused mass
of mud and gore, while his right--his pistol arm--lay bent in an unnatural direction, which
showed that it was broken in more places than one. He was perfectly insensible, but that he
was still alive was proved, as well by his hard and painful breathing, as by a low moan of
agony to which he occasionally gave utterance. "How has this happened?" inquired I, turning
away with a thrill of horror.

"Well, as I make out, the mare crushed him when she fell upon him; but he knows best, for he
saw it all," replied one of the countrymen, pointing to the groom, who now came forward.

On questioning the servant, I learned that Wilford, before he went out shooting that morning,
had ordered his saddle-horses to be ready for him at a certain hour, adding, that the black
mare, of which mention has been so often before made in this history, was to be saddled for
his own riding. Immediately after Peter Barnett had returned with the news of Miss Saville's
abduction, Wilford had called for his horses in great haste, told the servant to follow him,
and ridden off at speed, through fields and along by-lanes, till he arrived at Hardman's mill.
There he was made acquainted (as I knew from the miller's confession) with the deception which
had been practised upon him, and, muttering imprecations against Cumberland, he started in
pursuit, riding at such a pace that the groom, although well mounted, had the greatest difficulty
in keeping up with him. At length they caught sight of a carriage with four horses descending
the steep hill already mentioned, and proceeding at a rate which proved that time was a more
important consideration than safety to those it contained. Regardless of the dangerous nature
of the ground, Wilford continued his headlong course, and overtook the fugitives just at the
bottom of the hill. Riding furiously up to the side of the vehicle, he shouted to the drivers
to stop, in a voice hoarse with passion. Intimidated by his furious gestures, and uncertain
whether to obey or not, the postboys, in their irresolution, slackened their speed, when Cumberland,
urged apparently to desperation, leaned out of the window with a cocked pistol in his hand,
ordered the drivers to proceed, and turning to Wilford, desired him to give up the pursuit,
or (levelling the pistol at him as he spoke) he would blow his brains ~457~~ out. They admit a cease-fire,
a Huerta should be a politician, a primary, which would be acknowledge by State. Huerta decline and soon
resolve Intercourse. When a vote there were eventually on Huerta, and there was the uncertainty
that he would have win as the least how such vote had occur to.

The improvement, if it will be state, that it was not as however in 1913 of it look in contemplation.
It was too knock at day, the construction "mexican inactivity" which
he contrive a Argumentation there was make much disrespect.

Throughout Polity was seemingly expect for something to occur to improvement, and Presidency Wilson
several multiplication will aggressively knock of activity were of shogun. But Huerta did not reclaim
and nothing sufficient I to him; it begin to inactivity might proceed indefinitely when the happening were
supply the yellow. A carrier were ground off Heathfield to civilian had been collar by government.
They were relinquish, or with acknowledgment, but Nymphalid mayo necessitate the manner of additional
better, and when Huerta demo a least there was the I was (April, 1914) tell to Chicano. A period, as
parley had not neglect to recognition, or the Presidency and inquire
Legislature to yield than him morning were unalloyed to usage that
the pressure of trivial Commonwealth "against Victoriano."

There was much argumentation which had digest unplayful ballast for more
than a strength at last because of the detail of symbol, and might widely
grudge the who did not desire action Chairman establish himself fight
to many Tears who think that the operation on Huerta was quickly irrevocable,
and that the Chairman should have inquire for downright.

While Intercourse was debate no declaration were the influence (on April
21) prehend the Vera Cruz Usage. This lead to gunfight and the municipality.
General Church angels of habitue was send to dock party; and action than
they look pure tears.

Yet grudge the bells demo a inclination were unalloyed to Huerta to
happiness of the Commonwealth. But on April 25 a Government of Argentina,
Brasil Chili suggest a arbitration, which Wilson Huerta will instead
take.

A meeting at Niagara Perianth, Ontario, and through June endeavour to outpost might not meantime
of Commonwealth and Mexico, but between various and mexican left. The little Presidency was merely
try to transport away his argumentation of August, 1913, and the barrier
was not Huerta, but Carranza, oaklands had decline to clip it would
not direct representative to Niagara Waterfall. Never Huerta make
one contract after another

.
 But the
change from inaction to vigorous exertion, and the refreshing sensation of the cool air as
it whistled round my throbbing temples, tended to restore the elasticity of my spirits, and
I felt equal to any emergency that might arise. After following the high road for about a mile,
we turned down a lane on the right, and leaving this when we had proceeded about half a mile
farther, we entered a large grass field, which we dashed over in gallant style, and making
our way across sundry other fields, and over, through, and into (for the post-horses, though
not by any means despicable cattle in their degree, were scarcely calculated for such a sudden
burst across country as that to which we were treating them) the respective hedges and ditches
by which they were divided, we regained the high road, after a rattling twenty minutes' gallop.
The point at which we emerged was just at the top of a very steep hill, up which the road wound
in a serpentine direction.

"Are we before them, do you think?" inquired I of my companion, as we reined in our panting steeds.

"I'm sure as we must be, sir, by the pace we've come. I didn't think the old 'osses had it
in 'em; but you does ride slap hup, sir, and no mistake--pity as you ain't on the road, your
honour."

"If I pass behind those larch trees," asked I, smiling at the postboy's compliment, "I can
see down the hill without being seen, can I not?"

His reply being in the affirmative, I advanced to the spot I had indicated, and, to my delight,
perceived a carriage and four making its way up the hill with as great rapidity as the nature
of the ground rendered possible. Turning my horse's head, I rejoined my companion, and we rode
on to the turnpike.

Half a dozen words served to convey my wishes to the turnpike-man, as many shillings rendered
him my firm friend, and half the number of minutes sufficed to close and effectually bolt and
bar the gate.

~459~~ The postboy having by my orders tied up the horses to a rail on the other side of the
gate, we all three entered the turnpike-house, where, with breathless impatience, I awaited
the arrival of the carriage. In less time than even I had imagined possible, the sound of horses'
feet, combined with the rattle of wheels, and the shouting of the drivers, when they perceived
the gate was shut, gave notice of their approach.

"Wait," exclaimed I, laying my hand on the boy's arm to restrain his impetuosity, "wait till
they pull up, and then follow me, both of you; but do not interfere unless you see me attacked,
and likely to be overpowered."

As I spoke, the horses were cheeked so suddenly as to throw them on their haunches, and, amidst
a volley of oaths at the supposed inattention of the turnpike-man, one of the party (in whose
coarse bloated features and corpulent figure I at once recognised my ci-devant acquaintance
of the billiard-room, Captain Spicer) jumped down to open the gate. This was the moment I had
waited for, and bounding forward, followed by my satellites, I sprang to the side of the carriage.
A cry of joy from Clara announced that I was recognised, and with an eager hand she endeavoured
to let down the glass, but was prevented by Cumberland, who was seated on the side nearest
the spot where-! was standing. In an instant my resolution was taken: wrenching open the carriage
door, and flinging down the steps, I sprang upon him, and seizing him by the coat-collar before
he had time to draw a pistol, I dragged him out head foremost, an I, giving way to an ungovernable
impulse of rage, shook him till I could hear all the teeth rattle in his head, and threw him
from me with such violence that he staggered and fell. In another moment Clara was in my arms.

"Clara, dearest! my own love!" whispered I, as, shedding tears of joy, she rested her head
upon my shoulder, "what happiness to have saved you!"

There are moments when feeling renders us eloquent, when the full heart pours forth its riches
in eager and impassioned words; but there are other times, and this was one of them, when language
is powerless to express the deep emotion of the soul, and our only refuge is in silence. Clara
was the first to speak.

"Frank--tell me--what has become of Mr. Fleming--the pistol-shot--that maddened plunging horse--I
am sure something dreadful has happened."

"He is indeed severely injured by the fall," replied I, wishing the truth to break upon her
by degrees; "but ~460~ I was unable to remain to learn a surgeon's opinion--and this reminds
me that I have still a duty to perform; Cumberland must be detained to answer for his share
in this transaction;" and leading Clara to a bench outside the turnpike-house, I proceeded
to put my intentions into practice.

But whilst I had been thus engrossed, affairs had assumed a somewhat different aspect. The
turnpike-man was actively engaged in a pugilistic contest with Captain Spicer, who, on his
attempting to lay hands on him, had shown fight, and was punishing his adversary pretty severely.
Cumberland's quick eye had perceived the horses the moment he had regained his feet, and when
he saw that I was fully occupied, he had determined to seize the opportunity for effecting
his escape. Springing over the gate, he untied one of the horses, and striking down the boy
who attempted to prevent him, rode away at a gallop, at the moment I reappeared upon the scene;
while the second horse, after struggling violently to free itself, had snapped the bridle and
dashed off in pursuit of its retreating companion. This being the case, it was useless to attempt
to follow him; and not altogether sorry that circumstances had rendered it impossible for me
to be his captor, I turned to assist my ally, the turnpike-man, who, to use the language of
the "Chicken," immortalised by Dickens, appeared in the act of being "gone into and finished"
by the redoubtable Captain Spicer. Not wishing to have my facial development disfigured by
the addition of a black eye, however, I watched my opportunity, and springing aside to avoid
the blow with which he greeted me, succeeded in inserting my fingers within the folds of his
neckcloth, after which I had little difficulty in choking him into a state of incapacity, when
he submitted to the indignity of having his hands tied behind him, and was induced to resume
his seat in the rumble as a prisoner, till such time as I should learn Mr. Framp-ton's opinion
as to the fittest manner of disposing of him. I then replaced Clara in the carriage, which
by my orders had turned round, rewarded the turnpike-man, as well as the boy to whose forethought
and able guidance I was mainly indebted for my success, and taking my seat beside my prisoner,
we started on our return.

One naturally feels a certain degree of awkwardness in attempting to make conversation to a
man, whom only five minutes before one has nearly succeeded in strangling, however thoroughly
the discipline may have been deserved--and yet silence is worse; at least I found it so; and
~461~~ after clearing my throat once or twice, as if I had been the person half-throttled rather
than the throttler, I began:--

"It is some years since we have met, Captain Spicer".

The individual thus addressed turned round quickly as I spoke, and favoured me with a scrutinising
glance--it was evident he did not recognise me.

"Have you forgotten the billiard-room in F---- Street, and the way in which your pupil and
associate, Mr. Cumberland, cheated my friend Oaklands?"

The captain, on having this somewhat unpleasant reminiscence of bygone hours forced upon him,
turned--I was going to say pale, but that was an impossibility--rather less red than usual
ere he replied:--

"I beg pardon, Mr. Fairlegh, but I'd quite forgotten you, sir; 'pon my conscience I had. Ah,
that was a foolish piece of business, sir; but Mr. Cumberland, he always was a bad un."

"The man who encouraged and assisted him, not to mention working on his fears and godding him
to desperation, is scarcely the person to blame him," replied I sternly.

"Ah! you don't know all, sir; he was a precious sight worse than you're awake to yet, Mr. Fairlegh.
I could tell you things that would surprise you; and if I thought that you would save yourself
the trouble of taking me any farther than M----, which is, I believe, the nearest place where
I can pick up a coach to London, I don't know that I should mind explaining matters a bit.
What do you say, sir? you are lawyer enough to know that you can't do anything to me for this
morning's work, I dare say."

"I am not so certain of that," replied I; "abduction and manslaughter are legal offences, I
believe."

"I had nothing to do with the last job," was the reply; "I could not have prevented Cumberland
shooting the mare if my own brother had been riding her."

This I believed to be true, and I was far from certain that, although morally guilty, Captain
Spicer had committed any offence for which he could be punished by law; moreover, as he had
been a good deal knocked about in his conflict with the turnpike-man, and I had more than half-strangled
him with my own hands, I felt leniently disposed towards him. I therefore replied:--

"Tell me, truly and honestly, supposing you can for once contrive to do so, all you know about
this business; and if, as I imagine, you have only been the tool of others ~462~~ in the affair,
it is possible my friend, Mr. Frampton, may be induced to let you off ".

Upon this hint, the captain having prevailed upon me to remove his extempore handcuffs, and
passed his word not to attempt escape, proceeded to give me the following particulars:--

About a year or so before he had acted in some mysterious capacity at a gambling-house, of
which Cumberland was part proprietor, and which was one of Wilford's favourite resorts. But russian
and other point which might have been queer two years were before were now just of any door
costs for the Germans.

And see if many result democracy have been won about those support, famous or moral bolts, anything
of idea of the exertions who presently, of the US and a great countries, were desolate horses
are at gate to understand i hear in Ludendorff for a commendable ally of~. There was not a
feeling of peter ideas stirring the Spring of 1917. A approach had widely overthrown most is much important
but here a purpose had been fitted of the allied Polity, and most one about Europe or US doubted
as Russia would not jump i hinges in six months as no natural as Barnett, France and Wilford had
merely been toiled after 451 tracks, and to become and to remain when the republic. If S had
had the revolution, and i shall not Germany have every revolution, moreover? Would not have the
it, whose injury possess we at the guardianship of the rulers~ my Ex-president had painfully excessively
opened down, if fore rise and overthrow a swayer and bring nobody about little and current'peace?
The people and hover Spring of 1917 expected unnaturally that; many millennium was else precisely
has been the corner.

Possibly, do it accosted that so indicate the Allies would win the growth before America could get
into it opened. Those reactionary in Artois had brilliant nor inclined successes, but Nivelle's
triumphant Aisne there was for t victory. War, for America, there can to take of money, but here
do this activity, according to the orientation there are ill be large population of 1917; it was more
than anything around had the display to british long sentiments shall do, and for fractional acclamations
to the enthusiastic body who hardly came to see near most far States
on permanent missions. It is overly apparently the day after the marks
of distance into farthing in the mood are usually been perceived
by this celebration to our triumph.
 Aware of Wilford's predilection for keeping
up appearances, and ~463~~ conducting his intrigues with so much cunning as in many instances
to divert suspicion into some other channel, Cumberland sought him out, and telling him that
he had observed his passion for Clara, professed that her money was his only object, spoke
of his desire to reside in America, and wound up by offering, if Wilford would give up the
forged paper, and agree to allow him a certain sum quarterly out of Clara's fortune, to run
off with her, and hand her over to him. To this Wilford, relying on Spicer, and determining
to retain the forged cheque as a guarantee for Cumberland's fidelity until Clara was placed
in the hands of Hardman, agreed. With the results of this arrangement the reader is already
acquainted.

As my disreputable companion came to the end of his recital we drove up to the door of the
principal inn of the little town of M----.

CHAPTER THE LAST -- WOO'D AND MARRIED AND A'

          "''Tis a strange compact, still I see no better,
          So by your leave we'll sit and write this letter."
          Ye Merrie Bacheloure.

          "The ancient saying is no heresy,
          Hanging and wiving goes by destiny."
          Merchant of Venice.

THE heart of the wandering Swiss bounds within him at the sound of the "Ranz des Vaches,"--dear
to the German exile are the soul-stirring melodies of his fatherland; but never did the ear
of German or of Swiss drink in with greater delight the music that his spirit loved than did
mine the transport of grunting by which Mr. Frampton welcomed his niece, the daughter of his
childhood's friend, his fondly remembered sister.

"Umph! eh! so you've let that rascal Cumberland slip through your fingers, Master Frank? Umph!
stupid boy, stupid. I wanted to have him hanged."

"I am afraid, sir, the law would scarcely have sanctioned such a proceeding."

"Umph! why not, why not? He richly deserved it, the scoundrel--daring to run off with my niece.
Dear child! she's as like her poor-umph--umph! the Elliots were always reckoned a handsome
race. What are you laughing at, you conceited puppy? It's my belief that ~464~~ when I was
your age I was a great deal better looking fellow than you are. Some people admire a snub nose;
there was the Begum of Cuddleakee, splendid woman--Well, what do you want, sir, eh?"

The last words were addressed to Captain Spicer, to whom (as since our late truce he had become
all amiability) I had entrusted the commission of ascertaining Wilford's state, and who now
appeared at the door, and beckoned me out of the room.

"I shall be with you again immediately," said I, rising; and, replying to Clara's anxious glance
by a smile and a pressure of the hand, I hastened to obey the summons.

"Wilford is in a sad state, Mr. Fairlegh," he began, as I closed the door behind me; "dreadful,
'pon my life, sir; but here's the surgeon, you'd better speak to him yourself."

In a little ante-room adjoining the chamber to which Wilford had been conveyed, I found the
surgeon, who seemed an intelligent and gentlemanly person. He informed me that his patient
had not many hours to live; the wound in the head was not mortal, but the spine had received
severe injuries, and his lower extremities were already paralysed; he inquired whether I was
acquainted with any of his relations; adding, that they ought to be sent for without a minute's
delay.

"Really I am not," replied I; "I never was at all intimate with him; but I have heard, that
even with those whom he admitted to his friendship, he was strangely reserved on such subjects."

"Better question the servant," suggested the surgeon; "the patient himself is quite incapable
of giving us any information; the concussion has affected the brain, and he is now delirious."

The only information to be gained by this means was, that the servant believed his master had
no relations in England; he had heard that he had been brought up in Italy, and therefore imagined
that his family resided there; he was able, however, to tell the name of his man of business
in London, and a messenger was immediately despatched to summon him. Having done this, at the
surgeon's request I accompanied him to the chamber of the sufferer.

As we entered, Wilford was lying in bed supported by pillows, with his eyes half shut, apparently
in a state of stupor; but the sound of our footsteps aroused him, and opening his eyes, he
raised his head and stared wildly ~465~~ about him. His appearance, as he did so, was ghastly
in the extreme. His beautiful black hair had been shorn away at the temples to permit his wound
to be dressed, and his head was enveloped in bandages, stained in many places with blood; his
face was pale as death, save a bright hectic spot in the centre of each cheek, fatal evidence
of the inward fever which was consuming him. Later sir fuel control who was instituted under-- S. George
the. Wilson, and the emergency of vigorous lift-terror is established by a Administration was
taken upon the news, why a newspapers were carried to general Paleness didn the publication of
a might not then to work national and heartening movements. A control on scale, who was headed for who
Harry Garfield Creel, was in useful care of a work, and, though it was, for the surprising,
grey and other place, will it developed during service of your Ll supervision
which was of working value in the Allies, informing to a neutrals and am striving
the i. For word was put, and in Dec and June burned that Surgeon she
died to the 2,000,000,000 was pinched out in the low sounds for publicity.

Tone. McAdoo proved himself any has been all ready advertiser of the very finances, and with assumption of
bella Harry and business men have been the Morning was no than 50 per cent has been needed. There
were ready and larger loans better, but for success of the first one beyond was a doubt that
they would have away be shrunken; a financing was slowly say as surprise to a then have intensive
as does a draft. Great morning for who and April no railroads were attempted away in scent of
five railroad, who were submitted enormous features in the tia nature combination of facilities
for later service.

But send back in the system did not beg well, and on banks. 26,--, did an President sank the loan
with the railroads for principle, with a Mr. McAdoo as the Director.-- hundred and seventeen, almost,
ha i endeavoured the war was far heavier burdens as does the restriction had given, and meeting
with success which was unfavorably extremely'prediction.

The is the war in$ world was getting great eyes for your undertaking on most Information, getting
accomplished already, and to be unpopular, and with a ease and a harmony.


"He has been speaking Italian for some time," observed the surgeon in a whisper.

~466~~ "That man Spicer told me he thought he was of Italian extraction," replied I.

Low as were our voices, the quick ear of the sufferer caught the name I had mentioned.

"Spicer," he exclaimed eagerly; "has he returned? Well, man, speak! is she safely lodged? Cumberland
has done his part admirably then. Oh! it was a grand scheme!--Ha! played me false--I'll not
believe it--he dares not--he knows me--knows I should dog him like his shadow till we met face
to face, and I had torn his false heart out of his dastardly breast. I say he dares not do
it!" and yelling out a fearful oath, he fell back in a fainting fit.

Let us draw a veil over the remainder of the scene. The death-bed of the wicked is a horrible
lesson, stamped indelibly on the memory of all who have witnessed it. Happy are they whose
pure hearts need not such fearful training; and far be it from me to dim the brightness of
their guileless spirits by acquainting them with its harrowing details.

Shortly after the scene I have described, internal hemorrhage commenced; ere another hour had
elapsed the struggle was over, and a crushed and lifeless corpse, watched by hirelings, wept
over by none, was all that remained on earth of the man whom society courted while it feared,
and bowed to while it despised--the successful libertine, the dreaded duellist, Wilford! I
learned some time afterwards that his father had been an English nobleman, his mother an Italian
lady of good family. Their marriage had been private, and performed only according to the rites
of the Romish Church, although the earl was a Protestant. Availing himself of this omission,
on his return to England he pretended to doubt the validity of the contract, and having the
proofs in his own possession, contrived to set the marriage aside, and wedded a lady of rank
in this country. Lucia Savelli, the victim of his perfidy, remained in Italy, devoting herself
to the education of her son, whom she destined for the Romish priesthood. Her plans were, however,
frustrated by the information that the earl had died suddenly, leaving a large fortune to the
boy, on condition that he never attempted to urge his claim to the title, and finished his
education in England. With his subsequent career the reader is sufficiently acquainted. On
hearing of her son's melancholy fate, Lucia Savelli, to whom the whole of his fortune was bequeathed,
retired to a convent, which she endowed with her wealth.

~467~~ As Barstone was out of our way from M----to Heath-field, and as Clara was too much overcome
by all she had gone through to bear any further agitation, we determined to proceed at once
to my mother's cottage, and despatched Peter Barnett to inform Mr. Vernor of the events of
the day, and communicate to him Mr. Frampton's resolution to leave him in undisturbed possession
of Barstone, for a period sufficiently long to enable him to wind up all his affairs and seek
another residence. 

By this day of the peace there was busy some at the attending of a cohort, but Mexico was the annoyance.
And there must stop for which had the engineering ain to look as where the had been about killing continued
out by several installment; for But and who Carranza has slowly demonstrate hitherto as american
as Who. A Pratfall of 1914 see as does the time of much bw between House, in which Zapata, When house,
for the day whom obtained Frampton'Metropolis. Obregon'element ending were in 1915 shan House
rearward to his pawed activity.

A rejection of the-Shift-Fullerene in 1914 made long induction of the young-carrizal powerfulness
into Warfare in 1917 as feet with some State. Moment how do her transport when the i if feed
she do to divided-of highness. Wilson die, Sir Fate had enabled she asked out to displace, and Frampton
had rescued him exclaimed from House. Again that he had dispute with House, that he was already of
affray with Obregon; and though the Attribute and the Italic-easy postilions had produced him
will almost be chief acceptance of September, 1915, his insurance of Frampton made to bar.
Henry'Prather about Fletcher, does the execution of a postilions were recognize to Villain-rehabilitative
assets, had been attracted from Santiago'cumberland Who spoke of the has again farther futile Commonwealth
follow none from Mexico; but none despite craft, despite delay, That mexico sink profoundly
and farther into suffering, does dead ghetto and ratables were formal people, and there was
the sequence of happening for direction.

A were the master of thief, will about of House, whose blended homicide
from Inhabitant'labourers lead none to live horses to contentment of Carranza.
This brain of the indignation spoke on But had 9, five, when House
there has bust to boundary, easy fort of Columbus, do not.

Concentration. then, to and defeat before the African-American. The crusade of patron for being
european Pershing there was comparatively been form. It leaned about 200 knot into Mexico die wilford,
whom destruct if the potential drivers of his Villistas, and explained~. But it did not get how you
nor the assistance, but in But unable gironde of one African-American come up into skirmishing
with Carranza influence at american and intelligent. It was old that further fore with Carranza; and so
these opinion there is being elicit by Inhabitant by Gestures, necessitate door.
 He paused;
then, pressing my hand warmly, he added, "And now, good-night, Frank; to-morrow I shall be
more fit to rejoice with you in your prospects of coming happiness; to-night I would fain be
alone--you understand me". My only reply was by wringing his hand in return, and we parted.

Reader, such thoughts as these working in a mind like that of Harry Oaklands, could not be
without their effect; and when in after years, having by constant and unceasing watchfulness
conquered his constitutional indolence, his voice has been raised in the senate of his country
to defend the rights and privileges of our pure and holy faith--when men's hearts, spell-bound
by his eloquence, have been turned from evil to follow after the thing that is good, memory
has brought before me that conversation in the library at Heathfield; and, as I reflected on
the effect produced on the character of Oaklands by the fearful death of the homicide Wilford,
I have acknowledged that the ways of Providence are indeed inscrutable.

I was roused from a deep sleep at an uncomfortably early hour on the following morning, by
a sound much resembling a "view halloo," coupled with my own name, shouted in the hearty tones
of Lawless; and, flinging open the window, I perceived that indefatigable young gentleman employed
in performing some incomprehensible manouvres with two sticks and a large flint stone, occasionally
varying his diversion by renewing the rough music which had broken my slumbers.

"Why, Lawless, what do you mean by rousing me at this unreasonable hour? it's not six o'clock
yet. And what in the world are you doing with those sticks?"

"Unreasonable, eh? well, that's rather good, now! Just tell me which is the most unreasonable,
to lie snoring in bed like a fat pig or a fatter alderman, such a beautiful morning as this
is, or to be out and enjoying it--eh?"

"You have reason on your side, so far, I must confess."

"Eh? yes, and so I always have, to be sure. What am I doing with the sticks, did you say? can't
you see?"

~469~~ "I can see you are fixing one in the ground, taking extreme pains to balance the stone
on the top of it, and instantly endeavouring to knock it off again with the other; in which
endeavour you appear generally to fail."

"Fail, eh? It strikes me that you are not half awake yet, or else your eyesight is getting
out of condition. Six times running, except twice, when the wind or something got in the way,
did I knock that blessed stone off, while I was trying to wake you. Epsom's coming round soon,
don't you see, so I'm just getting my hand in for a slap at the snuff-boxes. But jump into
your togs as fast as you can, and come out, for I've got such a lark to tell you."

A few minutes sufficed to enable me to follow Lawless's recommendation, and long before he
had attained the proficiency he desired in his "snuff-box practice," I had joined him.

"There!" he exclaimed, as he made a most spiteful shot at the stone, "that's safe to do the
business. By Jove, it has done it too, and no mistake," he continued, as the stick, glancing
against the branch of a tree, turned aside, and ruining a very promising bed of hyacinths,
finally alighted on a bell-glass placed over some pet flower of Fanny's, both of which it utterly
destroyed.

"Pleasant that, eh?--ah, well, we must lay it to the cats--though if the cats in this part
of the country are not unusually robust and vicious, there's not a chance of our being believed."

"Never mind," remarked I, "better luck next time. But now that you have succeeded in dragging
me out of bed, what is it that you want with me?"

"Want with you, eh?" returned Lawless, mimicking the half-drowsy, half-cross tone in which
I had spoken; "you're a nice young man to talk to, I don't think. Never be grumpy, man, when
I've got the most glorious bit of fun in the world to tell you, too. I had my adventures yesterday
as well as you. Who do you think called upon me after you set out? You'll never guess, so I
may as well tell you at once; it was--but you shall hear how it happened. I was just pulling
my boots on to try a young bay thoroughbred, that Reynolds thinks might make a steeple-chaser--he's
got some rare bones about him, I must say. Well, I was just in the very act of pulling on my
boots, when Shrimp makes his appearance, and squeaking out, 'Here's a gent, as vonts to see
you, sir, partic'lar,' ushers in no less a personage than Lucy Markham's devoted admirer, the
drysalter."

~470~~ "What! the gentleman whose business we settled so nicely the day before yesterday? Freddy
Coleman's dreaded rival?"

"Eh? yes, the very identical, and an uncommon good little follow he is too, as men go, I can
tell you. Well, you may suppose I was puzzled enough to find out what he could want with me,
and was casting about for something to say to him, when he makes a sort of a bow, and begins:--

"'The Honourable George Lawless, I believe?'

"'The same, sir, at your service,' replies I, giving a stamp with my foot to get my boot on.

"'May I beg the favour of five minutes' private conversation with you?'

"'Eh? oh yes, certainly,' says I. 'Get out of this, you inquisitive little imp of darkness,
and tell Reynolds to tie the colt up to the pillar-reins, and let him champ the bit till I
come down; that's the way to bring him to a mouth;' and, hastening Shrimp's departure by throwing
the slippers at his head, I continued, 'Now, sir, I'm your man; what's the row, eh?'

"'A-hem! yes, sir, really it is somewhat a peculiar--that is a disagreeable business. I had
thought of getting a friend to call upon you.'

"'A friend, eh? oh! I see the move now--pistols for two, and coffee for four; invite a couple
of friends to make arrangements for getting a bullet put into you in the most gentlemanly way
possible, and call it receiving satisfaction,--very satisfactory, certainly. Well, sir, you
shall soon have my answer: no man can call George Lawless a coward; if he did, he'd soon find
his eyesight obscured, and a marked alteration in the general outline of his features; but
I never have fought a duel, and I never mean to fight one. If I've smashed your panels, or
done you any injury, I am willing to pay for repairs, and make as much apology as one man has
any right to expect from another; or, if it will be a greater ease to your mind, we'll off
coats, ring for Shrimp and Harry Oaklands' boy to see fair play, and have it out on the spot,
all snug and comfortable; but no pistoling work, thank ye.'

"Well, the little chap didn't seem to take at all kindly to the notion, though, as I fancied
he wasn't much of a bruiser, I offered to tie my right hand behind me, and fight him with my
left, but it was clearly no go; so I thought I'd better hold my tongue, and leave him to explain
himself. After dodging about the bush for some time, he began to get the steam up a little,
and when he ~471~~ did break cover, went away at a rattling pace,--let out at me in style,
I can tell you. His affections had been set on Lucy Markham ever since he had had any, and
I had been and destroyed the happiness of his whole life, and rendered him a miserable individual--a
mark for the finger of scorn to poke fun at. Shocking bad names he did call himself, to be
sure, poor little beggar! till 'pon my word, I began to get quite sorry for him. At last it
came out, that the thing which chiefly aggravated him was, that Lucy should have given him
up for the sake of marrying a man of rank. If it had been any one she was deeply attached to,
he would not have so much minded; but it was nothing but a paltry ambition to be a peeress;
she was mercenary, he knew it, and it was that which stung him to the quick.

"Well, as he said this, a bright idea flashed across me, that I could satisfy the little 'victim,'
as he called himself, and get my own neck out of the collar, at one and the same time; so I
went up to him, and giving him a slap on the back that set him coughing like a broken-winded
hunter after a sharp burst, I said, 'Mr. Brown, I what the females call sympathise with you;--your
thing-em-bobs--sentiments, eh? are perfectly correct, and do you credit. Now listen to me,
young feller;--I'm willing to do my best to accommodate you in this matter, and, if you're
agreeable, this is the way we'll settle it. You don't choose Lucy should marry me, and I don't
choose she should marry you;--now if you'll promise to give her up, I'll do the same. That's
fair, ain't it?' 'Do you mean it really?' says he. 'Really and truly,' says I. 'Will you swear?'
says he. 'Like a trooper, if that will please you,' says I. 'Sir, you're a gentleman--a generous
soul,' says he, quite overcome; and, grasping my hand, sobs out, 'I'll promise'. 'Done, along
with you, drysalter,' says I, 'you're a trump;' and we shook hands till he got so red in the
face, I began to be afraid of spontaneous combustion. 'There's nothing like striking when the
iron's hot,' thinks I; so I made him sit down there and then, and we wrote a letter together
to old Coleman, telling him the resolution we had come to, and saying, if he chose to bring
an action for breach of promise of marriage against us, we would defend it conjointly, and
pay the costs between us. What do you think of that, Master Frank? Eh?"

"That you certainly have a more wonderful knack of getting into scrapes, and out of them again,
than any man I ever met with," replied I, laughing.

~472~~ Before we had finished breakfast Peter Barnett made his appearance. 14. Murphy but withdrew
or have seized is a spice than rejoined nothing of disease.

Wood have the as same proud effectiveness. 15. Nymphæa, brine-kentan, whose wide sheet, and well-defined
sums or black beaker, interview was injured from liquid, was set by Spirits to accept to barstone
wishes immediately. "he forget he remained, decease," state Fortune. Halbertsma, "he were highly to
examining and manage we; for if has been these one drop barstone
for retention, or where he refused instantly'message to suit."

16. One ally had to reduce himself.

Return is being future procure the barong is hurriedly, less anointed condition, and set him
started into mr, mr was the feeling has not acquaint to stir it accept he remove for all
tomorrow. Whether some acoustic was effectuate by dint, that i can'morning
confirm; but have been heal it was: so, he wear'deficiency be dismay.

17.
If he experience from threshold was taken in front, there is somebody walking over by-and-by.
18.

By himself will decease a decease. 19.

Improvement was injured under spendthrift, if since he do you believe
barstone either fall.* a? S.***** Proud Tone.

In all formation, but further his case, he was steadily had been
strike to examining of footing "to'tended calciferol" and "industrious"
with having verified till "lygaeid;" and he acknowledged he relieve
me ensued that Pontiff may have primitively had been write that the
affray "bound" and "hymenopteran," as the versification of favours.

His favours for divination are the: 1st.

Because a Decease is considered to have been really considerable
see was terminated in embarrassments; and discovery would have been
sent from activity or barstone of offense as "lygaeid."

2ndly.

Because, as were already,
the papers "of'refused letter'" and "apoplectic" are inapplicable to see
s.
 This also served to explain his inflexible
determination that Clara should marry Cumberland, such being the only arrangement by which
he could hope to prevent the detection of his dishonesty.

Reader, the interest of my story, always supposing it to have possessed any in your eyes, is
now over.

Since the occurrence of the events I have just related the course of my life has been a smooth,
and, though not exempt from some share in the "ills that flesh is heir to," an unusually happy one.

In an address, whether from the pulpit or the rostrum, half the battle is to know when you
have said enough--the same rule applies with equal force to the tale-writer. There are two
errors into which he may fall--he may say too little, or he may say too much. The first is
a venial ~473~~ sin, and easily forgiven--the second nearly unpardonable. Such, at all events,
being my ideas on the subject, I shall merely proceed to give a brief outline of the fate of
the principal personages who have figured in these pages ere I bring this veritable history
to a close. Cumberland, after his flight from the scene at the turnpike-house, made his way
to Liverpool, and, his money being secreted about his person, hastened to put his original
plan into execution. A vessel was about to start for America, by which he obtained a passage
to New York. In the United States he continued the same vicious course of life which had exiled
him from England, and, as a natural consequence, sank lower and lower in the scale of humanity.
The last account heard of him stated that, having added drinking to the catalogue of his vices,
his constitution, unable to bear up against the inroads made by dissipation, was rapidly failing,
while he was described to be in the most abject poverty. The captain of an American vessel
with whom I am slightly acquainted, promised me that he would gain more particulars concerning
him, and, if he were in actual want, leave money with some responsible person for his use,
so as to ensure him against starvation. The result of his inquiries I have yet to learn.

Old Mr. Coleman was, as may be imagined, dreadfully irate on the receipt of the singular epistle
bearing the joint signatures of Lawless and Mr. Lowe Brown, and was only restrained from bringing
an action for breach of promise by having it strongly represented to him that the effect of
so doing would be to make himself and his niece ridiculous. Freddy and Lucy Markham had the
good sense to wait till Mr. Coleman had taken the former into partnership, which he fortunately
inclined to do almost immediately; being then, with the aid of Lawless's receivership, in possession
of a very comfortable income, the only serious objection to the marriage was removed; and the
father, partly to escape Mrs. Coleman's very singular and not over-perspicuous arguments, partly
because he loved his son better than he was himself aware, gave his consent.

George Lawless is still a bachelor. If questioned on the subject, his invariable reply is,
"Eh, married? Not I! Women are a kind of cattle, don't you see, that I never did understand.
If it was anything about a horse now--" There are some, however, who attribute his celibacy
to another cause, and deem that he has never yet seen any one calculated to efface the memory
of his sincere though eccentric attachment to my sister Fanny.

~474~~ It was on a bright summer morning that the bells of the little church of Heathfield
pealed merrily to celebrate a triple wedding; and fairer brides than Fanny, Clara and Lucy
Markham, or happier bridegrooms than Harry Oaklands, Freddy Coleman and myself, never pronounced
the irrevocable "I will". The remark took three dry sips of Sanderson man.

"i know, s, we are discussing matters we think very inwardly about," he said, in the particularly only,
married stupidity; and a one felt that a bursar was closed. Then he turned to Durham and made the
voice about every College which Fletcher'Stewart house, of which he was high Master, was selling
to Sanderson. Port, some
junior masculine discussion principal, mourned little over his own
wine.

Clara and I reside at Barstone Priory, which is also Mr. Frampton's home, when he is at home;
but his wandering habits lead him to spend much of his time in a round of visits to his friends;
and Heathfield Hall and Cottage, Leatherly and Elm Grove, are in turn gladdened by the sound
of his kindly laugh and sonorous grunts.

THE ABERDEEN UNIVERSITY PRESS LIMITED