The genius at school is usually a disappointing figure, for, as a rule, one must be commonplace
to be a successful boy. In that preposterous world, to be remarkable is to be overlooked; and
nothing less vivid than the white-hot blaze of a Shelley will bring with it even a distinguished
martyrdom. But Beddoes was an exception, though he was not a martyr. On the contrary, he dominated
his fellows as absolutely as if he had been a dullard and a dunce. He was at Charterhouse;
and an entertaining account of his existence there has been preserved to us in a paper of school
reminiscences, written by Mr. C.D. Bevan, who had been his fag. Though his place in the school
was high, Beddoes' interests were devoted not so much to classical scholarship as to the literature
of his own tongue. Cowley, he afterwards told a friend, had been the first poet he had understood;
but no doubt he had begun to understand poetry many years before he went to Charterhouse; and,
while he was there, the reading which he chiefly delighted in was the Elizabethan drama. 'He
liked acting,' says Mr. Bevan, 'and was a good judge of it, and used to give apt though burlesque
imitations of the popular actors, particularly Kean and Macready. Though his voice was harsh
and his enunciation offensively conceited, he read with so much propriety of expression and
manner, that I was always glad to listen: even when I was pressed into the service as his accomplice,
his enemy, or his love, with a due accompaniment of curses, caresses, or kicks, as the course
of his declamation required. One play in particular, Marlowe's Tragedy of Dr. Faustus, excited
my admiration in this way; and a liking for the old English drama, which I still retain, was
created and strengthened by such recitations.' But Beddoes' dramatic performances were not
limited to the works of others; when the occasion arose he was able to supply the necessary
material himself. A locksmith had incurred his displeasure by putting a bad lock on his bookcase;
Beddoes vowed vengeance; and when next the man appeared he was received by a dramatic interlude,
representing his last moments, his horror and remorse, his death, and the funeral procession,
which was interrupted by fiends, who carried off body and soul to eternal torments. Such was
the realistic vigour of the performance that the locksmith, according to Mr. Bevan, 'departed
in a storm of wrath and execrations, and could not be persuaded, for some time, to resume his
work.'

Besides the interlude of the wicked locksmith, Beddoes' school compositions included a novel
in the style of Fielding (which has unfortunately disappeared), the beginnings of an Elizabethan
tragedy, and much miscellaneous verse. In 1820 he left Charterhouse, and went to Pembroke College,
Oxford, where, in the following year, while still a freshman, he published his first volume,
The Improvisatore, a series of short narratives in verse. The book had been written in part
while he was at school; and its immaturity is obvious. It contains no trace of the nervous
vigour of his later style; the verse is weak, and the sentiment, to use his own expression,
'Moorish.' Indeed, the only interest of the little work lies in the evidence which it affords
that the singular pre-occupation which eventually dominated Beddoes' mind had, even in these
early days, made its appearance. The book is full of death. The poems begin on battle-fields
and end in charnel-houses; old men are slaughtered in cold blood, and lovers are struck by
lightning into mouldering heaps of corruption. The boy, with his elaborate exhibitions of physical
horror, was doing his best to make his readers' flesh creep. But the attempt was far too crude;
and in after years, when Beddoes had become a past-master of that difficult art, he was very
much ashamed of his first publication. So eager was he to destroy every trace of its existence,
that he did not spare even the finely bound copies of his friends. The story goes that he amused
himself by visiting their libraries with a penknife, so that, when next they took out the precious
volume, they found the pages gone.

Beddoes, however, had no reason to be ashamed of his next publication, The Brides' Tragedy,
which appeared in 1822. In a single bound, he had reached the threshold of poetry, and was
knocking at the door. The line which divides the best and most accomplished verse from poetry
itself--that subtle and momentous line which every one can draw, and no one can explain--Beddoes
had not yet crossed. But he had gone as far as it was possible to go by the aid of mere skill
in the art of writing, and he was still in his twentieth year. Many passages in The Brides'
Tragedy seem only to be waiting for the breath of inspiration which will bring them into life;
and indeed, here and there, the breath has come, the warm, the true, the vital breath of Apollo.
No one, surely, whose lips had not tasted of the waters of Helicon, could have uttered such
words as these:

    Here's the blue violet, like Pandora's eye,
    When first it darkened with immortal life

or a line of such intense imaginative force as this:

    I've huddled her into the wormy earth;

or this splendid description of a stormy sunrise:

    The day is in its shroud while yet an infant;
    And Night with giant strides stalks o'er the world,
    Like a swart Cyclops, on its hideous front
    One round, red, thunder-swollen eye ablaze.

The play was written on the Elizabethan model, and, as a play, it is disfigured by Beddoes'
most characteristic faults: the construction is weak, the interest fluctuates from character
to character, and the motives and actions of the characters themselves are for the most part
curiously remote from the realities of life. Yet, though the merit of the tragedy depends almost
entirely upon the verse, there are signs in it that, while Beddoes lacked the gift of construction,
he nevertheless possessed one important dramatic faculty--the power of creating detached scenes
of interest and beauty. The scene in which the half-crazed Leonora imagines to herself, beside
the couch on which her dead daughter lies, that the child is really living after all, is dramatic
in the highest sense of the word; the situation, with all its capabilities of pathetic irony,
is conceived and developed with consummate art and absolute restraint. Leonora's speech ends thus:

          ... Speak, I pray thee, Floribel,
    Speak to thy mother; do but whisper 'aye';
    Well, well, I will not press her; I am sure
    She has the welcome news of some good fortune,
    And hoards the telling till her father comes;
    ... Ah! She half laughed. I've guessed it then;
    Come tell me, I'll be secret. Nay, if you mock me,
    I must be very angry till you speak.
    Now this is silly; some of these young boys
    Have dressed the cushions with her clothes in sport.
    'Tis very like her. I could make this image
    Act all her greetings; she shall bow her head:
    'Good-morrow, mother'; and her smiling face
    Falls on my neck.--Oh, heaven, 'tis she indeed!
    I know it all--don't tell me.

The last seven words are a summary of anguish, horror, and despair, such as Webster himself
might have been proud to write.

The Brides' Tragedy was well received by critics; and a laudatory notice of Beddoes in the
Edinburgh, written by Bryan Waller Procter--better known then than now under his pseudonym
of Barry Cornwall--led to a lasting friendship between the two poets. The connection had an
important result, for it was through Procter that Beddoes became acquainted with the most intimate
of all his friends--Thomas Forbes Kelsall, then a young lawyer at Southampton. In the summer
of 1823 Beddoes stayed at Southampton for several months, and, while ostensibly studying for
his Oxford degree, gave up most of his time to conversations with Kelsall and to dramatic composition.
It was a culminating point in his life: one of those moments which come, even to the most fortunate,
once and once only--when youth, and hope, and the high exuberance of genius combine with circumstance
and opportunity to crown the marvellous hour. The spade-work of The Brides' Tragedy had been
accomplished; the seed had been sown; and now the harvest was beginning. Beddoes, 'with the
delicious sense,' as Kelsall wrote long afterwards, 'of the laurel freshly twined around his
head,' poured out, in these Southampton evenings, an eager stream of song. 'His poetic composition,'
says his friend, 'was then exceedingly facile: more than once or twice has he taken home with
him at night some unfinished act of a drama, in which the editor [Kelsall] had found much to
admire, and, at the next meeting, has produced a new one, similar in design, but filled with
other thoughts and fancies, which his teeming imagination had projected, in its sheer abundance,
and not from any feeling, right or fastidious, of unworthiness in its predecessor. Of several
of these very striking fragments, large and grand in their aspect as they each started into form,

    Like the red outline of beginning Adam,

... the only trace remaining is literally the impression thus deeply cut into their one observer's
mind. The fine verse just quoted is the sole remnant, indelibly stamped on the editor's memory,
of one of these extinct creations.' Fragments survive of at least four dramas, projected, and
brought to various stages of completion, at about this time. Beddoes was impatient of the common
restraints; he was dashing forward in the spirit of his own advice to another poet:

          Creep not nor climb,
    As they who place their topmost of sublime
    On some peak of this planet, pitifully.
    Dart eaglewise with open wings, and fly
    Until you meet the gods!

Eighteen months after his Southampton visit, Beddoes took his degree at Oxford, and, almost
immediately, made up his mind to a course of action which had the profoundest effect upon his
future life. He determined to take up the study of medicine; and with that end in view established
himself, in 1825, at the University at Göttingen. It is very clear, however, that he had no
intention of giving up his poetical work. He took with him to Germany the beginnings of a new
play--'a very Gothic-styled tragedy,' he calls it, 'for which I have a jewel of a name--DEATH'S
JEST-BOOK; of course,' he adds, 'no one will ever read it'; and, during his four years at Göttingen,
he devoted most of his leisure to the completion of this work. He was young; he was rich; he
was interested in medical science; and no doubt it seemed to him that he could well afford
to amuse himself for half-a-dozen years, before he settled down to the poetical work which
was to be the serious occupation of his life. But, as time passed, he became more and more
engrossed in the study of medicine, for which he gradually discovered he had not only a taste
but a gift; so that at last he came to doubt whether it might not be his true vocation to be
a physician, and not a poet after all. Engulfed among the students of Göttingen, England and
English ways of life, and even English poetry, became dim to him; 'dir, dem Anbeter der seligen
Gottheiten der Musen, u.s.w.,' he wrote to Kelsall, 'was Unterhaltendes kann der Liebhaber
von Knochen, der fleissige Botaniker und Phisiolog mittheilen?' In 1830 he was still hesitating
between the two alternatives. 'I sometimes wish,' he told the same friend, 'to devote myself
exclusively to the study of anatomy and physiology in science, of languages, and dramatic poetry';
his pen had run away with him; and his 'exclusive' devotion turned out to be a double one,
directed towards widely different ends. While he was still in this state of mind, a new interest
took possession of him--an interest which worked havoc with his dreams of dramatic authorship
and scientific research: he became involved in the revolutionary movement which was at that
time beginning to agitate Europe. The details of his adventures are unhappily lost to us, for
we know nothing more of them than can be learnt from a few scanty references in his rare letters
to English friends; but it is certain that the part he played was an active, and even a dangerous
one. He was turned out of Würzburg by 'that ingenious Jackanapes,' the King of Bavaria; he
was an intimate friend of Hegetschweiler, one of the leaders of liberalism in Switzerland;
and he was present in Zurich when a body of six thousand peasants, 'half unarmed, and the other
half armed with scythes, dungforks and poles, entered the town and overturned the liberal government.'
In the tumult Hegetschweiler was killed, and Beddoes was soon afterwards forced to fly the
canton. During the following years we catch glimpses of him, flitting mysteriously over Germany
and Switzerland, at Berlin, at Baden, at Giessen, a strange solitary figure, with tangled hair
and meerschaum pipe, scribbling lampoons upon the King of Prussia, translating Grainger's Spinal
Cord into German, and Schoenlein's Diseases of Europeans into English, exploring Pilatus and
the Titlis, evolving now and then some ghostly lyric or some rabelaisian tale, or brooding
over the scenes of his 'Gothic-styled tragedy,' wondering if it were worthless or inspired,
and giving it--as had been his wont for the last twenty years--just one more touch before he
sent it to the press. He appeared in England once or twice, and in 1846 made a stay of several
months, visiting the Procters in London, and going down to Southampton to be with Kelsall once
again. Eccentricity had grown on him; he would shut himself for days in his bedroom, smoking
furiously; he would fall into fits of long and deep depression. He shocked some of his relatives
by arriving at their country house astride a donkey; and he amazed the Procters by starting
out one evening to set fire to Drury Lane Theatre with a lighted five-pound note. After this
last visit to England, his history becomes even more obscure than before. It is known that
in 1847 he was in Frankfort, where he lived for six months in close companionship with a young
baker called Degen--'a nice-looking young man, nineteen years of age,' we are told, 'dressed
in a blue blouse, fine in expression, and of a natural dignity of manner'; and that, in the
spring of the following year, the two friends went off to Zurich, where Beddoes hired the theatre
for a night in order that Degen might appear on the stage in the part of Hotspur. At Basel,
however, for some unexplained reason, the friends parted, and Beddoes fell immediately into
the profoundest gloom. 'Il a été misérable,' said the waiter at the Cigogne Hotel, where he
was staying, 'il a voulu se tuer.' It was true. He inflicted a deep wound in his leg with a
razor, in the hope, apparently, of bleeding to death. He was taken to the hospital, where he
constantly tore off the bandages, until at last it was necessary to amputate the leg below
the knee. The operation was successful, Beddoes began to recover, and, in the autumn, Degen
came back to Basel. It seemed as if all were going well; for the poet, with his books around
him, and the blue-bloused Degen by his bedside, talked happily of politics and literature,
and of an Italian journey in the spring. He walked out twice; was he still happy? Who can tell?
Was it happiness, or misery, or what strange impulse, that drove him, on his third walk, to
go to a chemist's shop in the town, and to obtain there a phial of deadly poison? On the evening
of that day--the 26th of January, 1849--Dr. Ecklin, his physician, was hastily summoned, to
find Beddoes lying insensible upon the bed. He never recovered consciousness, and died that
night. Upon his breast was found a pencil note, addressed to one of his English friends. 'My
dear Philips,' it began, 'I am food for what I am good for--worms.' A few testamentary wishes
followed. Kelsall was to have the manuscripts; and--'W. Beddoes must have a case (50 bottles)
of Champagne Moet, 1847 growth, to drink my death in ... I ought to have been, among other
things,' the gruesome document concluded, 'a good poet. Life was too great a bore on one peg,
and that a bad one. Buy for Dr. Ecklin one of Reade's best stomach-pumps.' It was the last
of his additions to Death's Jest Book, and the most macabre of all.

Kelsall discharged his duties as literary executor with exemplary care. The manuscripts were
fragmentary and confused. There were three distinct drafts of Death's Jest Book, each with
variations of its own; and from these Kelsall compiled his first edition of the drama, which
appeared in 1850. In the following year he brought out the two volumes of poetical works, which
remained for forty years the only record of the full scope and power of Beddoes' genius. They
contain reprints of The Brides' Tragedy and Death's Jest Book, together with two unfinished
tragedies, and a great number of dramatic fragments and lyrics; and the poems are preceded
by Kelsall's memoir of his friend. Of these rare and valuable volumes the Muses' Library edition
is almost an exact reprint, except that it omits the memoir and revives The Improvisatore.
Only one other edition of Beddoes exists--the limited one brought out by Mr. Gosse in 1890,
and based upon a fresh examination of the manuscripts. Mr. Gosse was able to add ten lyrics
and one dramatic fragment to those already published by Kelsall; he made public for the first
time the true story of Beddoes' suicide, which Kelsall had concealed; and, in 1893, he followed
up his edition of the poems by a volume of Beddoes' letters. It is clear, therefore, that there
is no one living to whom lovers of Beddoes owe so much as to Mr. Gosse. He has supplied most
important materials for the elucidation of the poet's history: and, among the lyrics which
he has printed for the first time, are to be found one of the most perfect specimens of Beddoes'
command of unearthly pathos--The Old Ghost--and one of the most singular examples of his vein
of grotesque and ominous humour--The Oviparous Tailor. Yet it may be doubted whether even Mr.
Gosse's edition is the final one. There are traces in Beddoes' letters of unpublished compositions
which may still come to light. What has happened, one would like to know, to The Ivory Gate,
that 'volume of prosaic poetry and poetical prose,' which Beddoes talked of publishing in 1837?
Only a few fine stanzas from it have ever appeared. But the truth is that Beddoes was not a
'creeper into worm-holes,' he was not even a 'reviver'; he was a reincarnation. Everything
that we know of him goes to show that the laborious and elaborate effort of literary reconstruction
was quite alien to his spirit. We have Kelsall's evidence as to the ease and abundance of his
composition; we have the character of the man, as it shines forth in his letters and in the
history of his life--records of a 'bold, trampling fellow,' if ever there was one; and we have
the evidence of his poetry itself. For the impress of a fresh and vital intelligence is stamped
unmistakably upon all that is best in his work. His mature blank verse is perfect. It is not
an artificial concoction galvanized into the semblance of life; it simply lives. And, with
Beddoes, maturity was precocious, for he obtained complete mastery over the most difficult
and dangerous of metres at a wonderfully early age. Blank verse is like the Djin in the Arabian
Nights; it is either the most terrible of masters, or the most powerful of slaves. If you have
not the magic secret, it will take your best thoughts, your bravest imaginations, and change
them into toads and fishes; but, if the spell be yours, it will turn into a flying carpet and
lift your simplest utterance into the highest heaven. Beddoes had mastered the 'Open, Sesame'
at an age when most poets are still mouthing ineffectual wheats and barleys. In his twenty-second
year, his thoughts filled and moved and animated his blank verse as easily and familiarly as
a hand in a glove. He wishes to compare, for instance, the human mind, with its knowledge of
the past, to a single eye receiving the light of the stars; and the object of the comparison
is to lay stress upon the concentration on one point of a vast multiplicity of objects. There
could be no better exercise for a young verse-writer than to attempt his own expression of
this idea, and then to examine these lines by Beddoes--lines where simplicity and splendour
have been woven together with the ease of accomplished art.

    How glorious to live! Even in one thought
    The wisdom of past times to fit together,
    And from the luminous minds of many men
    Catch a reflected truth; as, in one eye,
    Light, from unnumbered worlds and farthest planets
    Of the star-crowded universe, is gathered
    Into one ray.

The effect is, of course, partly produced by the diction; but the diction, fine as it is, would
be useless without the phrasing--that art by which the two forces of the metre and the sense
are made at once to combat, to combine with, and to heighten each other. It is, however, impossible
to do more than touch upon this side--the technical side--of Beddoes' genius. But it may be
noticed that in his mastery of phrasing--as in so much besides--he was a true Elizabethan.
The great artists of that age knew that without phrasing dramatic verse was a dead thing; and
it is only necessary to turn from their pages to those of an eighteenth-century dramatist--Addison,
for instance--to understand how right they were.

Beddoes' power of creating scenes of intense dramatic force, which had already begun to show
itself in The Brides' Tragedy, reached its full development in his subsequent work. The opening
act of The Second Brother--the most nearly complete of his unfinished tragedies--is a striking
example of a powerful and original theme treated in such a way that, while the whole of it
is steeped in imaginative poetry, yet not one ounce of its dramatic effectiveness is lost.
The duke's next brother, the heir to the dukedom of Ferrara, returns to the city, after years
of wandering, a miserable and sordid beggar--to find his younger brother, rich, beautiful,
and reckless, leading a life of gay debauchery, with the assurance of succeeding to the dukedom
when the duke dies. The situation presents possibilities for just those bold and extraordinary
contrasts which were so dear to Beddoes' heart. While Marcello, the second brother, is meditating
over his wretched fate, Orazio, the third, comes upon the stage, crowned and glorious, attended
by a train of singing revellers, and with a courtesan upon either hand. 'Wine in a ruby!' he
exclaims, gazing into his mistress's eyes:

    I'll solemnize their beauty in a draught
    Pressed from the summer of an hundred vines.

Meanwhile Marcello pushes himself forward, and attempts to salute his brother.

    Orazio. Insolent beggar!

    Marcello. Prince! But we must shake hands.
    Look you, the round earth's like a sleeping serpent,
    Who drops her dusky tail upon her crown
    Just here. Oh, we are like two mountain peaks
    Of two close planets, catching in the air:
    You, King Olympus, a great pile of summer,
    Wearing a crown of gods; I, the vast top
    Of the ghosts' deadly world, naked and dark,
    With nothing reigning on my desolate head
    But an old spirit of a murdered god,
    Palaced within the corpse of Saturn's father.

They begin to dispute, and at last Marcello exclaims--

    Aye, Prince, you have a brother--

    Orazio. The Duke--he'll scourge you.

    Marcello. Nay, the second, sir,
    Who, like an envious river, flows between
    Your footsteps and Ferrara's throne....

    Orazio. Stood he before me there,
    By you, in you, as like as you're unlike,
    Straight as you're bowed, young as you are old,
    And many years nearer than him to Death,
    The falling brilliancy of whose white sword
    Your ancient locks so silverly reflect,
    I would deny, outswear, and overreach,
    And pass him with contempt, as I do you.
    Jove! How we waste the stars: set on, my friends.

And so the revelling band pass onward, singing still, as they vanish down the darkened street:

    Strike, you myrtle-crownèd boys,
    Ivied maidens, strike together!...

and Marcello is left alone:

          I went forth
    Joyfully, as the soul of one who closes
    His pillowed eyes beside an unseen murderer,
    And like its horrible return was mine,
    To find the heart, wherein I breathed and beat,
    Cold, gashed, and dead. Let me forget to love,
    And take a heart of venom: let me make
    A staircase of the frightened breasts of men,
    And climb into a lonely happiness!
    And thou, who only art alone as I,
    Great solitary god of that one sun,
    I charge thee, by the likeness of our state,
    Undo these human veins that tie me close
    To other men, and let your servant griefs
    Unmilk me of my mother, and pour in
    Salt scorn and steaming hate!

