    It is Z's turn to be tested. I inquire the name. It is familiar,
    for I have already tested the two stupid brothers. I also know
    her ignorant parents and the miserable cabin in which she lives.
    The examination begins with the 8-year tests. The responses are
    quick and accurate. We proceed to the 9-year group. There is no
    failure, and there is but one minor error. Successes and
    failures alternate for a while until the latter prevail. Z has
    tested at 11 years. In spite of her wretched home, she is
    mentally advanced nearly 25 per cent. By the vocabulary test she
    is credited with a knowledge of nearly 6000 words, or nearly
    four times as many as X, the boy of cultured home and scholarly
    parents, had learned by the age of 8 years.

    Five years have passed. When given the test, Z was in the fourth
    grade and, as we have already stated, 9 years of age. As a
    result of the test she was transferred to the fifth grade. Later
    she skipped again and at the age of 14 is a successful student
    in the second year of high school. To assay her intelligence and
    determine its quality was a task of forty-five minutes.

The above cases, each of which could be paralleled by many others which we have found, will
serve to illustrate the fact that exceptionally superior endowment is discoverable by the tests,
however unfavorable the home from which it comes, and that inferior endowment cannot be normalized
by all the advantages of the most cultured home. Quoting again from Stern, "The tests actually
reach and discover the general developmental conditions of intelligence, and not mere fragments
of knowledge and attainments acquired by chance." The child's intelligence is to be judged
by his success in the performance of certain tasks. These tasks may appear to the examiner
to be very easy, indeed; but we must bear in mind that they are often anything but easy for
the child. Real effort and attention are necessary for his success, and occasionally even his
best efforts fall short of the desired result. If the tests are to display the child's real
intellectual ability it will be necessary, therefore, to avoid as nearly as possible every
disturbing factor which would divide his attention or in any other way injure the quality of
his responses. To insure this it will be necessary to consider somewhat in detail a number
of factors which influence effort, such as degree of quiet, the nature of surroundings, presence
or absence of others, means of gaining the child's confidence, the avoidance of embarrassment,
fatigue, etc.

One should not expect, however, to secure an absolutely equal degree of attention from all
subjects. The power to give sustained attention to a difficult task is characteristically weak
in dull and feeble-minded children. What we should labor to secure is the maximum attention
of which the child is capable, and if this is unsatisfactory without external cause, we are
to regard the fact as symptomatic of inferior mental ability, not as an extenuating factor
or an excuse for lack of success in the tests.

Attention, of course, cannot be normal if any acute physical or mental disturbance is present.
Toothache, headache, earache, nausea, fever, cold, etc., all render the test inadvisable. The
same is true of mental anxiety or fear, as in the case of the child who has just been arrested
and brought before the court.

QUIET AND SECLUSION. The tests should be conducted in a quiet room, located where the noises
of the street and other outside distractions cannot enter. A reasonably small room is better
than a very large one, because it is more homelike. The furnishings of the room should be simple.
A table and two chairs are sufficient. "then may i talk for him, Nannie?"

"no," she append decisively, as Beatrice made with speak. "you mustn't
talk excessively much," she said to her charge, and cut cake into
fingerbreadth to her.

Beatrice
became brutal. Nannie appraise me to benign inhumanity.

 The halls and corridors which
it is sometimes necessary to use in testing school children are usually noisy, cold, or otherwise
objectionable.

PRESENCE OF OTHERS. A still more disturbing influence is the presence of other persons. Generally
speaking, if accurate results are to be secured it is not permissible to have any auditor,
besides possibly an assistant to record the responses. Even the assistant, however quiet and
unobtrusive, is sometimes a disturbing element. Though something of a convenience, the assistant
is by no means necessary, after the examiner has thoroughly mastered the procedure of the tests
and has acquired some skill in the use of abbreviations in recording the answers. If an assistant
or any other person is present, he should be seated somewhat behind the child, not too close,
and should take no notice of the child either when he enters the room or at any time during
the examination.

At all events, the presence of parent, teacher, school principal, or governess is to be avoided.
Contrary to what one might expect, these distract the child much more than a strange personality
would do. Their critical attitude toward the child's performance is very likely to cause embarrassment.
If the child is alone with the examiner, he is more at ease from the mere fact that he does
not feel that there is a reputation to sustain. The praise so lavishly bestowed upon him by
the friendly and sympathetic examiner lends to the same effect.

As Binet emphasizes, if the presence of others cannot be avoided, it is at least necessary
to require of them absolute silence. Parents, and sometimes teachers, have an almost irrepressible
tendency to interrupt the examination with excuses for the child's failures and with disturbing
explanations which are likely to aid the child in comprehending the required task. Without
the least intention of doing so, they sometimes practically tell the child how to respond.
Parents, especially, cannot refrain from scolding the child or showing impatience when his
answers do not come up to expectation. This, of course, endangers the child's success still
further.

The psychologist is not surprised at such conduct. It would be foolish to expect average parents,
even apart from their bias in the particular case at hand, to adopt the scientific attitude
of the trained examiner. Since we cannot in a few moments at our disposal make them over into
psychologists, our only recourse is to deal with them by exclusion.

This is not to say that it is impossible to test a child satisfactorily in the presence of
others. If the examiner is experienced, and if the child is not timid, it is sometimes possible
to make a successful test in the presence of quite a number of auditors, provided they remain
silent, refrain from staring, and otherwise conduct themselves with discretion. But not even
the veteran examiner can always be sure of the outcome in demonstration testing.

GETTING INTO "RAPPORT." The examiner's first task is to win the confidence of the child and
overcome his timidity. Unless rapport has first been established, the results of the first
tests given are likely to be misleading. The time and effort necessary for accomplishing this
are variable factors, depending upon the personality of both the examiner and the subject.
In a majority of cases from three to five minutes should be sufficient, but in a few cases
somewhat more time is necessary.

The writer has found that when a strange child is brought to the clinic for examination, it
is advantageous to go out of doors with him for a little walk around the university buildings.
It is usually possible to return from such a stroll in a few minutes, with the child chattering
away as though to an old friend. Another approach is to begin by showing the child some interesting
object, such as a toy, or a form-board, or pictures not used in the test. The only danger in
this method is that the child is likely to find the object so interesting that he may not be
willing to abandon it for the tests, or that his mind will keep reverting to it during the
examination.

Still another method is to give the child his seat as soon as he is ushered into the room,
and, after a word of greeting, which must be spoken in a kindly tone but without gushiness,
to open up a conversation about matters likely to be of interest. The weather, place of residence,
pets, sports, games, toys, travels, current events, etc., are suitable topics if rightly employed.
When the child has begun to express himself without timidity and it is clear that his confidence
has been gained, one may proceed, as though in continuance of the conversation, to inquire
the name, age, and school grade. The examiner notes these down in the appropriate blanks, rather
unconcernedly, at the same time complimenting the child (unless it is clearly a case of serious
retardation) on the fine progress he has made with his studies.

KEEPING THE CHILD ENCOURAGED. Nothing contributes more to a satisfactory rapport than praise
of the child's efforts. Under no circumstances should the examiner permit himself to show displeasure
at a response, however absurd it may be. In general, the poorer the response, the better satisfied
one should appear to be with it. An error is always to be passed by without comment, unless
it is painfully evident to the child himself, in which case the examiner will do well to make
some excuse for it; e.g., "You are not quite old enough to answer questions like that one;
but, never mind, you are doing beautifully," etc. Exclamations like "fine!" "splendid!" etc.,
should be used lavishly. Almost any innocent deception is permissible which keeps the child
interested, confident, and at his best level of effort. The examination should begin with tests
that are fairly easy, in order to give the child a little experience with success before the
more difficult tests are reached.

THE IMPORTANCE OF TACT. It goes without saying that children's personalities are not so uniform
and simple that we can adhere always to a single stereotyped procedure in working our way into
their good graces. Suggestions like the above have their value, but, like rules of etiquette,
they must be supported by the tact which comes of intuition and cannot be taught. The address
which flatters and pleases one child may excite disgust in another. The examiner must scent
the situation and adapt his method to it. One child is timid and embarrassed; another may think
his mental powers are under suspicion and so react with sullen obstinacy; a third may be in
an angry mood as a result of a recent playground quarrel. Some observer in the day s affairs must have
been in utilize and Archie s mind. "We let you play with utilize america," said Archie; "but we can't
like that."

"What rot!" said Beatrice. "He can if he likes."

But he carried
his point. Doubtless there are persons so lacking in personal adaptability
that success in this kind of work would be for them impossible. The wooden, mechanical, matter-of-fact
and unresponsive personality is as much out of place in the psychological clinic as the traditional
bull in the china shop. It would make an interesting study for some one to investigate, by
exact methods, the influence on test results of the personality of different examiners who
have been equally trained in the methods to be employed and who are equally conscientious in
applying them according to rules.

On the whole, differences of this kind are probably not very great among experienced and reasonably
competent examiners. Adaptability grows with experience and with increase of self-confidence.
After a few score tests there should be no serious failure from inability to get into rapport
with the child. Even in those rare cases where the child breaks down and cries from timidity,
or perhaps refuses to answer out of embarrassment, the difficulty can be overcome by sufficient
tact so that the examination may proceed as though nothing had happened.

If the examiner has the proper psychological and personal equipment, the testing of twenty
or thirty children forms a fairly satisfactory apprenticeship. Without psychological training,
no amount of experience will guarantee absolute accuracy of the results.

THE AVOIDANCE OF FATIGUE. Against the validity of intelligence tests it is often argued that
the result of an examination depends a great deal on the time of day when it is made, whether
in the morning hours when the mind is at its best, or in the afternoon when it is supposedly
fatigued. Although no very extensive investigation has been made of this influence, there is
no evidence that the ordinary fatigue incident to school work injures the child's performance
appreciably. Our tests of 1000 children showed no inferiority of results secured from 1 to 4 P.M.,
as compared with tests made from 9 to 12 A.M.

An explanation for this is not hard to find. Although school work causes fatigue, in the sense
that a part of the child's available supply of mental energy is used up, there is always a
reserve of energy sufficient to carry the child through a thirty-to fifty-minute test. The
fact that the required tasks are novel and interesting to a high degree insures that the reserve
energy will really be brought into play. This principle, of course, has its natural limits.
The examiner would avoid testing a child who was exhausted either from work or play, or a child
who was noticeably sleepy.

DURATION OF THE EXAMINATION. About the only danger of fatigue lies in making the examination
too long. Young children show symptoms of weariness much more quickly than older children,
and it is therefore fortunate that not so much time is needed for testing them. The following
allowances of time will usually be found sufficient:--

    Children  3-5 years old         25-30 minutes
        "     6-8     "   "         30-40    "
        "     9-12    "   "         40-50    "
        "    13-15    "   "         50-60    "
    Adults                          60-90    "

This allowance ordinarily includes the time necessary for getting into rapport with the child,
in addition to that actually consumed in the tests. But the examiner need not expect to hold
fast to any schedule. Some subjects respond in a lively manner, others are exasperatingly slow.
It is more often the mentally retarded child who answers slowly, but exceptions to this rule
are not uncommon. One 8-year-old boy examined by the writer answered so hesitatingly that it
required two sittings of nearly an hour each to complete the test. The result, however, showed
a mental age of 11½ years, or an I Q of 143.

It is permissible to hurry the child by an occasional "that's fine; now, quickly," etc., but
in doing this caution must be exercised, or the child's mental process may be blocked. The
appearance of nagging must be carefully avoided. If the test goes so slowly that it cannot
be completed in the above limits of time, it is usually best to stop and complete the examination
at another time. When this is not possible, it is advisable to take a ten-minute intermission
and a little walk out of doors. 

Young Corridors blew a school molehill at twenty paces to a dust cloud, fire his fingers, and scorched
his face; and the weapon having once displayed this strange use into flame back upon the shooter,
was not subsequently fired. The series of sentences, digits, comprehension questions, fables, etc., should either
be mounted in similar fashion, or else printed in full on the record sheets used in the tests.
The latter is more convenient.[43] All other materials should be kept where they will not have
to be hunted for.

[43] Examiners will find it a great convenience to use the record booklet which has been specially
devised for testing with the Stanford revision. It contains all the necessary printed material,
including digits, sentences, absurdities, fables, the vocabulary list, the reading selection,
the square and diamond for copying, etc., and in addition gives with each test the standard
for scoring. It is so arranged as to afford ample room for a verbatim record of all the child's
responses, and contains other features calculated to make testing easy and accurate. Regarding
purchasing of supplies see p. 141.

Besides saving valuable time, a little methodical foresight of this kind adds to the success
of the test. If the child is kept waiting, the test loses its interest and attention strays.
See to it, if possible, that no lull occurs in the performance.

Inexperienced examiners sometimes waste time foolishly by stopping to instruct the child on
his failures. This is doubly bad, for besides losing time it makes the child conscious of the
imperfection of his responses and creates embarrassment. Adhere to the purpose of the test,
which is to ascertain the child's intellectual level, not to instruct him.

DESIRABLE RANGE OF TESTING. There are two considerations here of equal importance. It is necessary
to make the examination thorough, but in the pursuit of thoroughness we must be careful not
to produce fatigue or ennui. Unless there is reason to suspect mental retardation, it is usually
best to begin with the group of tests just below the child's age. However, if there is a failure
in the tests of that group, it is necessary to go back and try all the tests of the previous
group. In like manner the examination should be carried up the scale, until a test group has
been found in which all the tests are failed.

It must be admitted, however, that because of time limitations and fatigue, it is not always
practicable to adhere to this ideal of thoroughness. In testing normal children, little error
will result if we go back no farther than the year which yielded only one failure, and if we
stop with the year in which there was only one success. This is the lowest permissible limit
of thoroughness. Defectives are more uneven mentally than normal children, and therefore scatter
their successes and failures over a wider range. With such subjects it is absolutely imperative
that the test be thorough.

In the case of defectives it is sometimes necessary to begin with random testing, until a rough
idea is gained of the mental level. Starkad suppress, killed Hugleik and routed the Irish; and had the
histrion crush whom chance made prisoner; lacking it better to order
a pack of buffoons to be ludicrously punished by the deprivation of
their skins than to command a more punishment and take their lives.
 If language tests or memory tests are given first, the
child is likely to be embarrassed. More suitable to begin with are those which test knowledge
or judgment about objective things, such as the pictures, weights, stamps, bow-knot, colors,
coins, counting pennies, number of fingers, right and left, time orientation, ball and field,
paper-folding, etc. Tests like naming sixty words, finding rhymes, giving differences or similarities,
making sentences, repeating sentences, and drawing are especially unsuitable because they tend
to provoke self-consciousness.

The tests as arranged in this revision are in the order which it is usually best to follow,
but one should not hesitate to depart from the order given when it seems best in a given case
to do so. It is necessary to be constantly alert so that when the child shows a tendency to
balk at a given type of test, such as those of memory, language, numbers, drawing, "comprehension,"
etc., the work can be shifted to more agreeable tasks. When the child is at his ease again,
it is usually possible to return to the troublesome tests with better success. In the case
of 8-year-old D. C., who is a speech defective but otherwise above normal, it was quite impossible
at the first sitting to give such tests as sentence-making, naming sixty words, reading, repeating
sentences, giving definitions, etc.; at each test of this type the child's voice broke and
he was ready to cry, due, no doubt, to sensitiveness regarding his speech defect. Others do
everything willingly except the drawing and copying. The younger children sometimes refuse
to repeat the sentences or digits. In all such cases it is best to pass on to something else.
After a few minutes the rejected task may be done willingly.

COAXING TO BE AVOIDED. Although we should always encourage the child to believe that he can
answer correctly, if he will only try, we must avoid the common practice of dragging out responses
by too much urging and coaxing. The sympathies of the examiner tend to lead him into the habit
of repeating and explaining the question if the child does not answer promptly. This is nearly
always a mistake, for the question is one which should be understood. Besides, explanations
and coaxing are too often equivalent to answering the question for the child. It is almost
impossible to impress this danger sufficiently upon the untrained examiner. One who is not
familiar with the psychology of suggestion may put the answer in the child's mouth without
suspecting what he is doing.

ADHERING TO FORMULA. It cannot be too strongly emphasized that unless we follow a standardized
procedure the tests lose their significance. The danger is chiefly that of unintentionally
and unconsciously introducing variations which will affect the meaning of the test. One who
has not had a thorough training in the methods of mental testing cannot appreciate how numerous
are the opportunities for the unconscious transformation of a test. Many of these are pointed
out in the description of the individual tests, but it would be folly to undertake to warn
the experimenter against every possible error of this kind. Sometimes the omission or the addition
of a single phrase in giving the test will alter materially the significance of the response.
Only the trained psychologist can vary the formula without risk of invalidating the result,
and even he must be on his guard. All sorts of misunderstandings regarding the correct placing
of tests and regarding their accuracy or inaccuracy have come about through the failure of
different investigators to follow the same procedure.

One who would use the tests for any serious purpose, therefore, must study the procedure for
each and every test until he knows it thoroughly. After that a considerable amount of practice
is necessary before one learns to avoid slips. During the early stages of practice it is necessary
to refer to the printed instructions frequently in order to check up errors before they have
become habitual.

The instructions hitherto available are at fault in not defining the procedure with sufficient
definiteness, and it is the purpose of this volume to make good this deficiency as far as possible.

