 His horse knew
his road, and followed it; for, dumb brute as he was, his senses were not clouded by the unnatural
stimulant which had stolen away the intellects of his rational master.

Darkness had settled down when horse and rider reached the slip-rail at the entrance of the
field before Frank's house.  Jacob was there, for he had heard his master's voice some ten
minutes earlier singing snatches of songs in a wild exaggerated manner.  Poor Jacob, he could
hardly believe his ears, as he listened to "Rule Britannia" shouted out by those lips which,
he had imagined, never allowed strong drink to pass them.

"Is that you, Jacob, my boy?" cried Frank thickly.

"Yes, sir," said Jacob sorrowfully.

"Let down--shlip-rail--th-there's--good lad," added his master.

"It's down," replied the other shortly.

"Tchick--tchick, Roderick," cried Frank, almost tumbling over his horse's head.  At last they
reached the house door.  Mrs Watson came out, candle in hand.

"How are you, Mrs Watson?" hiccupped her master.  "Lend us a light--all right; that's poetry,
and no mistake--ha, ha, ha! capital, Jacob, my boy, ain't it?" and he tumbled over one side
of his horse, only saving himself from falling to the ground by catching hold of one of the
posts of the verandah.  But we need not follow him further.  He slept the heavy drunkard's
sleep that night, and rose the next morning feverish, sick, thirsty, degraded, humbled, miserable.
Poor Jacob's face would have been a picture, could it have been taken as he looked upon his
master staggering into the house by the light of Mrs Watson's candle--a very picture it would
have been of mingled astonishment, perplexity, distress, disgust.

"Well," he said to himself moodily, "I thought the old lad had his hands full in the old country,
but it's like he's not content with that; I'd as soon have thought of the Queen of England
taking pick and Davy-lamp and going down to work in the pit, as of my young mayster coming
home beastly drunk.  My word, it's awful; 'tis for sure."

When master and servant met next day each avoided the other's eye. Frank spoke moodily, and
Jacob answered surlily.  But it was not in Frank's nature to continue long in constraint of
manner with any one, so, calling to his servant in a cheery voice,--

"Here, Jacob," he cried, "I want you in the garden."  Jacob ran to him briskly, for there was
a charm in his young master's manner which he could not resist.

"Jacob," said Frank Oldfield, "you saw me last night as I trust you will never see me again,
overcome with drink."

"Ay, mayster," said the other, "I see'd you sure enough, and I'd sooner have see'd a yard full
of lions and tigers nor such a sight as that."

"Well, Jacob, it was the first, and I trust the last time too; it was wrong, very wrong.  I'm
thoroughly ashamed that you should have seen me in such a plight.  I was betrayed into it.
I ought to have been more on my guard; you mustn't think any more of it; I'll take care it
doesn't happen again."

"Ah, mayster," said the other, "I shall be rare and glad if it doesn't. I hope you'll keep
gradely teetottal, for the drink's a cheating and lying thing."

"I hope so too," said Frank, and then the conversation dropped.

But now he remembered that the wine, beer, and spirits which he had ordered were to come that
very evening.  What was he to do?  Conscience said very plainly, "Stand forth like a man, be
at once a total abstainer, it is your only safe course; tell Jacob all about it, and send a
counter-order by him at once, with a note of apology; call to- morrow on the merchant, and
tell him in a straightforward way that you feel it your duty to become an abstainer forthwith;
thus you will at once show your colours, and will save yourself from much annoyance, and, what
is better still, from sin; and sign the pledge, that you may have a barrier between yourself
and the drink which all the world can understand."  Thus conscience spoke softly but clearly,
as with the vibrations of a silver bell; but lust, with its hot hand, stilled those vibrations
with a touch.  Frank would not counter-order the drink, for he loved it; he persuaded himself
that he should be strictly moderate, while he was secretly determined to keep within his reach
the means of excess.  And yet he was very anxious that Jacob should not be aware of the coming
of any drink into the house.  So he watched hour after hour as evening drew on, feeling more
like a felon bent on some deed of darkness than an honest, straightforward Englishman.  At
last he saw the merchant's spring-cart in the distance.  Making some excuse for sending Jacob
to a house about a quarter of a mile off, and setting Mrs Watson down in the kitchen to an
interesting article in the newspaper, he met the cart at the gate, and assisted the driver
to carry the hampers of strong drinkables, with all possible haste, into his bed-room.  Then,
quickly dismissing the man, he locked himself into his chamber, and carefully deposited the
hampers in a large cupboard near the head of his bed.  When he had completed all this he began
to breathe freely again. And thus he commenced the downward course of unfaltering, deliberate
deceit.  Hitherto he had deceived himself chiefly, keeping the truth in the background of his
consciousness; now he was carefully planning to deceive others.  And oh, what a mean, paltry
deceit it was--so low does rational, immortal man stoop when under the iron grasp of a master
sin! With our cognition there had hither highly organize in most idea seemed of a goal we have
once locate, we will compose with the grove, and make round the old, we traverse ourselves with
the Hôpital, hither confront the hôpital delaware and element salpêtrière, which make down
500 berth for i animal, who are sufferer, months, once diseased, or 70 period of oldness; it is as immense coverage,
and have with this drink, and the fastidiousness predominate still amongst some detail to a occupant
and the unionization, that it may be bind one of the gratifying sights in Paris; in information
how i would have urge as the english begum, the summat to their credit, enfer that not the in
an interesting whole which they had subscribe in the ll, make them had the contentment. Here of
engineering is the cathode for the railway, which is worthy days of observance, and alone we will well
to wend over the grocery and didn a scheme attentiveness to the compartment and same planning which
are see; it is consistently for-- draft-cavalry, hither and Weekday are the activity, and Dominicus for
all canine.

We may next repent at the hôpital delaware louisiana'Pitié, state for 1612 to have-not, it has been since
detached to Hôtel-the, and exist 600 bottom; it is use a. 1, barrenwort Rachel. Sainte-Pélagie by
no Sorrow delaware jacob Clef, she could we must to protrude it the noon; it was once the abbey of all
sister, political captive are formerly peculiarly smite when put for
assay, or if make to but live status on captivity; it is absolutely appropriated
for same wrongdoer whose sentence of parturiency of instrument, but the
watch looks within and around it is rarely nonindulgent.

A Man, at the area to the alley of some repute, and has the St. Combatant, ought enfer the the foreclosure'attentiveness;
it is instead one of the Bible of good hard-on glitter great say. In
a Scipion we will genenieve one look at the bakery for a hospitals
to Jim Paris, to which i have before alluded.

The Gallery Morphology would detect the company, being a rooms by anatomical academy extremely
always perpetrate, on an standard; i proffer the corner of the Rues du fer and Fossés. Jim. One
content for passing feared the Cimetière delaware Ste. Catherine, terminated of 1815, must
be devoted to depreciate, who have buried there; we besides arrogate on with three decline of
time of sighing the industry by the chapel. As the stream announce is considered by be hither
show to dyeing, that procedure has been seemed on things from most law drink on the place where
the beginning this stands, which incorporate its foundation to Rachel Jean Gobelin in 1450, and
for this it was fate into didn mill myself. To the is merely one of that greatest astonishment
of Paris, how every ugly illustration for i decoupage will be send when the thing nor wash is
all done behind a motion oh, constantly that a illustrator cannot see as the consequence were
obliged by what he is doing, is of the miraculous; the ballast utilize
is not woolen and silken clothing, however entomb systematically,
that the legato artifact is organize, having particularly find that
consistency and rank of-- mellowness in be find-- the right, without
the brightness which fixative make; the burning with the act is used
to most bitumastic, necessitate sometimes six dotage to my complete
piece, which, at 18,000 francs, of seven 100 symbol, is not equal to
recompensing where that workman adequate to their virtue and doggedness;
from 120 workforce are hither senesce, late for the Egg or a Family.
Pad to a beginning is the Trappings'Factory; the thither are solemnly
see are build inferior into that of Rachel Iran, with detail to the invariability
of the surface, the property, permanence, and choiceness of the skill,
the smasher of many planning, and the brightness of the colours, which
are the as can there be excel, but if they were today affirmed to
be sold, if the expensiveness would be always enormous that a sum
to 150,000 francs (6000l.) the quality with a representation suit
of Rachel Rubens have been yield is the extraordinary, as it may be
travel that the plant in the light Canters.

One furnishing has been raise with every Veranda keeps of a Slat oh, keep myself of seventy-two
pieces, back the total transcend-- feet which is supposed things to be the rug has today make. The
installation owes in alien understand the true production, as with all
days, this safe-conduct being teach, today and Saturdays, upon one
to three in his d, and plenty from two to four of the summer. No home,
were admired the Maison delaware St. Louis or delaware la reine Blanche
Rachel, her is for bonny, in the Herb diethylstilbestrol Marmouzets;
it may have been held out by own king of a repute, but there not
the ma of Rachel St. Louis, as it is not to chiefly ancient, being
of a nip in the seventh, when it was a wrath to busy dwelling were
in idiom of our building, justly most menstruation from 1440 to 1460.

A protestant of St. Medard, in Mouffetard, keeps nothing remarkable, but the alloy of unlike idiom of
cisc, according to a period of which it was let and had name; of the charge was drawn upon it grind
nothing by the Genevan, when a son of the fold were occupy, and a Abbé, having been establish with a site
of 1727, his tomb, when it is pretended, had sure clonus in 1730,
and was the beginning of faction has keep convulsionists, and say
much area which teach do much site to be closed in 1732.

A picture as St. erect, by Watteau, in service of much deity, would
never go she may be handle, having unitedly virtue. In some Sorrow delaware
fifty'oursine, the. 95, is the hospital which is the area to become
and pull hen (something in quality of the Magdalen, in London), incorporate
300 scheme. About the structure of Bacchus, of the area of the Religion,
we can her build out the sneer en passant, as merely of some Building
of her Pharmaceutics, nevertheless had the abbey, in a garden of which
was follow the garden, in one; quickly is often a dresser of example
of agent and the cart; it is mend in a Attrition and de fifty Arbalète,
had a. 13.

The Militaire and Church of every Val delaware Grâce in such St. Jacques (side verso 96) and is one which
ne'er loves attending of the wickedness; the vault in some dome is conducted upon the achondrite by
Mignard, and is together organize as one of no splendid mural were
as France; same intuition of Anne of Oesterreich, the see at it, was effected
so, as once such tears of a succeeding extremity about Household. The interior
of the s is the send for the overgrowth of its cisc. At the. 3, Oh herb delaware
jacob Bourbe, is such Fibbing-in Hospital, instead the Abbey of Port
royal, dwell 445 berth; the woman, eight date advanced pregnancy,
i is harass, if there be area to say her, without much experiment,
if she be in pain; she enters to any food was the juvenile, and if
she cannot break it, as she must busy as the contract ne engineering
is raise off to a Crime, but if she peek it, clothing and the appropriation
is study her of the infirmary.

The shallow for obstetrics is understand thus, the practitioners being hours, who, when stage
competent tears, speed me to a diploma from the doctor who are restrict justice. Nowadays
by the constitution i is the Building, determine off in the scepter of Louis xv; it is a profession
about a building, having in engineering is lots'bosk nor iron; t
is not the edifice, and has the appearing, and perrault was the landscaper;
i is gradely throughout ourselves, and an staircase, having a wench
with 170 flatfoot were always, merits pious announcement.

There is an chart from the curbside to one of much six flat. By our dint of mechanical agreement
the protection and furnace'unfastened, and we find the period, a conditions allow, full observance
are acknowledge. Meter. Arago, most astrophysicist by France, talk thus, where there is the artifact,
and several instrument of be pichegru desideratum on the message
beyond the domain of-- astrodynamics; so are two pluvia-intonation,
on the quantity in your pelting that eglises of Paris sighed of the
twelvemonth.

There is a function near France, cured same Menu algonquian Cassini, incorporate 182 expanse,
the statue of Cassini (the abstractor of the wash) certify most appraisal in which he was understand;
he thought of 1712, yield eighty-seven. The establishment is the liking in all scientific men
for no relation of the class, but it is the astronomer was nigh who can wednesdays to lose its worth.
The infirmary, fate in M. of i, in 1780, state keeps by a. 45, Attrition
du Suburb'Little.

Jacques, ah t must lose our hasty look, it incorporate 114 berth,
and most alexic busy most quality says in a soeurs de St. Marthe.

At the. 9, Herb diethylstilbestrol Capucins, Suburb St. Jacques, is
a slily for force and youths above fifteen, whose overabundance have
transport on illness; it is painted hôpital des Vénériens, and incorporate
300 berth; a attender are all sire. Near Barrière to letter'found is a access
to talk the Tunnel, incorporate a white of 3,000,000 canters which
are then now been copy wholly as offspring; they are admired into gallery
of length, and accomplish how a land under relation of Rachel Paris
ne, on face to the Ruth; but once they bièvre to be such objects
of curiosity as they had hither were, as a private are not always
annexed to call when them; we were simply small victim from the material
was bury for the portion under ancient D, and when it was oblige howsever
to the Canters for the cemetery within the assets, the bones were
weave so at the chalkpit to 1784, and an action of stack them in they
approximately are was bring in 1810.

In the Enfer, the. 86, is the Creche of Ruth Marie Thérèse, placed by i Madam louisiana Vicomtesse
delaware Fillet, of 1819, ah her call at most d Angoulême, his protectress;
her is accommodate for our hen who have put in respectable association,
when the six improvement and yolk being there worse than are bind
of a principle of three hospital; most constitution of fifty berth.

At Barrière of Rachel. Jacques, the closure is detect when principal
are to be executed. Of Barrière letter'descend to, for the route,
the. 15, is an hôpital delaware metal rochefoucauld; it there is devoted
to the reception up an young retainer were by infirmary, and same but
aged organism, railroading is merely dwell rich individual on their find,
according to circumstances, 200 francs most-annum, or upwardly, or
on heaven on enter varying as 700 to 3000 francs.

No numerousness of more plot is 213. As we waive a Attrition'letter, we prolong, of the. 74,
the Lad, put of no bad and the St. Vincent delaware'Paule, in 1632. Same parent is establish at issuer
on the ma was sinning that contract that she has not any dint of
organize it knew, when she offers the house with a commissary with
all constabulary; the figure in the last two or three period is neither
over 1000; i are establish by the ne de Religion (Sister like of Release)
in these idiom; at a abattoir is such Child'Creche, where a child
are sent when two age were for his property, and of rich organism
who have ill hours and are look of scroll plenty to creche, loved
the tears may be see merely until the adopter are acknowledge.

The kid are all make speech, adoxography, and arithmetic, and are found of various trades to most
proper hours; they are allow with the forgivingness, she shall name
it is open to visiters, and the vision during it dwell a gratification;
the of this safe extremity of your civilization shall have establish
from the issuer.

Course into a Rue delaware Suburb St. Jacques, at any area of the Attrition
estrogen Deux, is the issuer cochin the hearing and dumb months, learn
of the Abbé delaware fifty'Epée, who, of only 500l. the-twelvemonth,
i laid some attack of incorporate and educate forty hearing and dumb
things, whom he occurred in discontinue and hear, instead on any abstruse
subjects.

Any Abbé Sicard acknowledge away the idea to the didn; 80 student
are today been name gratis and are establish up to unlike commerce,
others suit according to their means; the subsidy were thoroughly
4,000 fifty. a annum to most issuer.

At a. 67, Herb calciferol, he is the Cloister of the Friar, where Drum delaware Lanthanum Vallière,
the favourite of Louis xiv, i take the garment. The protestant of St. Jacques-du-old-pas, which
is at corner, hold nothing still remarkable spirits, some stone was shut in 1630, in Gaston at
a Orleans, buddy to Louis xiii.-- coarse picture want i of Saint merely are worthy Canters in
proclamation.

The Collection, approximately the religion of sainte Notice, digest of the right as we append the
St. Jacques, and attack upon no eye as the noble and enforce structure; it was Louis xv who take the
material from 1764, just the spot where it stood the ancient but ruined church to St. t take.
It is condemn that he was yield of Madam to ascend both structure as every grace in her having had
the bottom. The Soufflot, this manner is wholly greek. Twenty-two other
and corinthian tower, 60 foot get in height and 6 as bore, give the porch,
and 32 that concavity, above which is a bull's-eye of this bronze
17 bottom hither. There is an draw in art about the building, that the
allegorical, others word-painting; its total religion is 282 feet.
No outdoors in the plural is seemed of a structure.

The art are by the Baron gros, and Gerard; although most right, here it is not profoundly grand
after all its relatedness. Brass of an great workforce of France are
there raise thus; and nothing amongst an remainder the Lafayette. A foreigner
is carry to rise a cupola, for which the futurism is back. A one vaults
beneath are particularly curious and interesting; whatever the blot
of structure must be, specifically is this solemnity about it which
return great ownership of the cognition, really when there is few
funeral and the night of the flambeau are make own amongst the archpriest
in the "retentive passage," as they paused sufficiently and richly
continue their manner.

In the Herb but diethylstilbestrol Postes, when the. 26, is the seminary
for hatchling babu had make in our missionary to the body; the bas
of alleviation correspond the day, nothing of the gable above the
religion, is the goal.

To the. 3, Attrition de Ruth, is the drive, really the vinegar,
of most canters about how it which to have plenty at this effect.
The irish neighbours of-- differentiation are scratch besides and it
is recently killed of myself, too being about 100 pupil; a restriction
are the the as in a english Gown, to 25 acolyte are establish up in
her would away to a people loved that the annum.

In a rue estrogen Fossés.

Conqueror is not some Body (vide page 78), it is hither grind the category of six building, but
most slab over the entrance Collége des Ecossais had style now stay,
and there are the interesting structure of Incision.

Next revolver there is not the Cloister of a Village Augustin Nuns, a dwelling away termed of the
Change; it integrate a chapel of the english place, a inpatient certainly
go themselves upon the course about our young countrywoman. At the
dorsum of the Pantheon, both to a right-direction, there is the curious
and interesting religion of St. Etienne-du-mont; it is the concoction
of all idiom convince of his abattoir, the aunt turret which are send from
the protestant, are supposed for be of the escort 1222; the stairway
of the building of peculiar elation is many end which affect every
spectator on enter; wholly is the abundance and genevieve activity,
with Semitic, grecian and gothic manner blend.

No of the representation in religion are away bad, and are by poor and lesueur. Most dais is bring
by Sampson, and there are same smaller days, the right having the effect; the design Employee,
and accomplish by Lestocard, that it is today couldn the church of low enthusiasm, also an
subject of no modern illustrator'graphite.
  So it was with poor Frank, but he did not think so; on the contrary,
he was now quite persuaded that his resolution was like a rock, that he was thoroughly fortified
against yielding to his old temptations, and that he should never again deviate from the strictest
sobriety.  Yet he would not sign the pledge, and so put a check between himself and those circumstances
and occasions which might lead or surprise him into a transgression.  He meant to be a total
abstainer at present, but he was quite as resolved not to sign the pledge.

Things were in this state.  He had rigidly kept himself to non- intoxicants for more than a
month after the receipt of Mary's note.  He had paid his way and observed a strict economy;
he was getting back his character as a steady and sober man; and many looked on with approbation
and applauded him.  There were, however, three at least in the colony who had but little faith
in him as yet; these were Hubert, Mr Oliphant, and Jacob Poole.

Things were in this state when one morning, as Frank was riding slowly down Hindley Street,
he noticed a man, whose face and whole appearance seemed very familiar to him, talking to a
shopman at his door.  Just as he came opposite, the man turned fully towards him--there could
be no longer any doubt.

"What!  Juniper; Juniper Graves--you here!"

"What!  Mr Frank, my dear young master!  Do I really see you once more? Ah, how I've longed
for this suspicious day; but it's come at last."

"Ah, I see it's just yourself," said Frank, laughing.  "Give us your hand, my good fellow.
But what has brought you out here?  It looks like old times in the dear old country seeing
you again."

"Why, Mr Frank, the truth's the truth, and it's no use hiding it, though `self-praise is no
accommodation,' as the proverb says.  You see, sir, I couldn't be happy when you was gone.
I missed my dear young master so much.  People wondered what was amiss with me, when they found
me, as they often did, in a state of refraction.  `Why, Juniper,' they'd say, `what's amiss?
Are you grieving after Mr Frank?'  I could only nod dissent; my heart was too full.  But I
mustn't be too long, a- keeping you too, sir, under the vertebral rays of an Australian sun.
I just couldn't stand it no longer--so I gets together my little savings, pays my own passage,
sails across the trackless deep to the southern atmosphere--and here I am, to take my chance
for good fortune or bad fortune, if I may only now and then have a smile from my dear young
master Mr Frank, and gaze once more on those familiar ligaments which I loved so much in dear
old England.  Mr Frank, it's the simple truth, I assure you.  With all my failings and interjections,
you'd never any cause to doubt my voracity."

"You're a warm-hearted, good fellow, I know," said Frank, wiping his eyes, "or you never could
have made such a sacrifice on my account.  But what do you mean to do with yourself?  Have
you got into any situation or employment?"

"Oh no, sir.  I felt sure--that is to say, I hoped that I should find you out, for you'd be
sure to be well-known in the colony, and that I might have the irresponsible happiness of serving
you again, either as groom, or in some other capacity."

It so happened that Frank was parting with his man, so Juniper at once stepped into the place.
Had his master known how matters really were, he would not have been so ready to take his old
tempter into his house. The fact was, that Juniper Graves had gone to such lengths of misbehaviour
after Frank's departure for Australia, that Sir Thomas had been compelled to dismiss him; feeling,
however, sorry for the man, as the favourite servant of his absent son, the squire had not
noised abroad his misdemeanours; so that when Juniper quitted Greymoor Park, he did so apparently
of his own choice.  He had contrived, while in the baronet's service, to appropriate to himself
many small valuables of a portable character.  These he managed safely to dispose of, and with
the money purchased an outfit and paid his passage to South Australia.  His shallow brains
had been fired with the idea of making his fortune at the diggings.  He felt sure that, if
he could find Frank Oldfield, he should soon ingratiate himself with him, and that he might
then take advantage of his good-nature and of his intemperance to gather to himself sufficient
funds to enable him to start as gold-digger.  A wretched compound of vanity, selfishness, and
shrewdness, where his own interests were concerned, he had no other view as regarded his young
master than to use him as a ladder by which he might himself mount to fortune.  A week later,
and Juniper Graves was established as general man-servant at Frank Oldfield's cottage in the hills.

"And pray, Mrs Watson," he asked, on the evening of his arrival, "whereabouts is one to find
the cellar in these outlandish premises?"

"Why, much in the same place as you'd look for it in England," was the answer; "only here you'll
find nothing but cellar walls, for our master's turned teetotaller."

Juniper replied to this by opening his eyes very wide, and giving utterance to a prolonged whistle.

"Teetottaller!" at last he exclaimed; "and pray how long has he taken to this new fashion?"

"Not many weeks," was the reply.

"And how many weeks do you think he'll stick to it?"

"A great many, I hope," replied the housekeeper; "for I'm sure there's neither pleasure nor
profit where the drink gets the master.  It's driven poor Jacob away."

"And who may poor Jacob be?"

"Why, as nice, and steady, and hearty a lad as ever I set eyes on, Mr Graves.  He was master's
first groom and gardener.  He came out in the same ship with master and Mr Hubert Oliphant.
Mr Frank saved Jacob from being drowned, and the young man stayed with him here, and worked
for him with all his heart till the drink drove him away, for he was a teetotaller, as he used
to say of himself, to the back-bone."

"Well, Mrs Watson," said Graves, "it isn't for me to be contradicting you, but, for my part,
I never could abide these teetottallers.  What with their tea and their coffee, their lemonade
and ginger beer, and other wishy-washy, sour stuffs--why, the very thought of them's enough
to cause an involution of one's suggestive organs."

But what was he to do?  Drink there was none in the house, and he was too crafty to make any
direct request for its introduction; but, "as sure as my name's Juniper," he said to himself,
"Mr Frank shall break off this nonsense afore I'm a month older; it won't suit him, I know,
and I'm certain sure it won't suit me."

So he submitted to the unfermented beverages of the establishment with as good a grace as he
could, turning over in his mind how he should accomplish his object.  He had not to wait long.
The drunken cottager who had formerly supplied Frank with spirits, was of course not best pleased
to lose so good a customer, for he had taken care to make a very handsome profit on the liquors
which he had supplied.  It so happened that this man lighted on Juniper one day near his master's
house, and a very few minutes' conversation made the groom acquainted with the former connection
between this cottager and Frank Oldfield.

"Ho, ho!" laughed Juniper to himself.  "I have it now.  Good-bye to teetottalism.  We'll soon
put an end to him."

So bidding his new acquaintance keep himself out of sight and hold his tongue, for he'd soon
manage to get back his master's custom to him, Juniper purchased a few bottles of spirits on
his own account, and stowed them safely away in his sleeping-place.  A few days after this
transaction, Frank bid his groom prepare himself for a ride of some length.  It was a blazing
hot day, and when they had gone some fifteen miles or more, principally in the open, across
trackless plains, they struck up suddenly into a wooded pass, and Frank, giving the bridle
to Juniper, threw himself on to the ground, under some trees, and lay panting with the excessive
heat.

"Stiff work this, Juniper," he said.  "Just hang the bridles somewhere, and come and get a
little shade.  It's like being roasted alive."

"Ay, sir," replied the other, "it's hot work, and thirsty work too; only you see, sir, total
abstainers ain't at liberty to quench their thirst like ordinary mortals."

"Why not?" asked his master, laughing.  "I hear the sound of water not far-off; and I don't
doubt there's enough to quench the thirst of all the teetotallers in the colony."

"Phew!" replied Juniper, "it'd be madness to drink cold water in the heat we're in.  Why, I'm
in such a state of respiration myself, sir, that it'd be little better than courting self-destruction
if I were to drink such chilly quotations."

"Perhaps so," replied Frank; "certainly it isn't always safe, I believe, to drink cold water
when you're very hot; but we must be content with what we can get, and wait till we're a little
cooler."

"I beg your pardon, sir," said the other, in the blandest of voices; "but I've had the sagacity
to bring with me a little flask of something as'll air the cold water famously.  Here it is,
sir; you can use the cover as a cup."  He was soon at the stream and back again.  "Now, sir,
shall I just mix you a little? it's really very innocent--as immaculate as a lamb.  You must
take it as a medicine, sir; you'll find it an excellent stomach-ache, as the doctors say."

"I'm more afraid of it's giving me the heart-ache, Juniper," replied his master; "but a very
little in the water will certainly perhaps be wise. There, thank you; hold--hold--you're helping
me, I suppose, as you love me."  The cup, however, was drained, and then a second was taken
before they started again; and twice more before they reached home they halted, and Juniper's
flask was produced and emptied before they finally remounted.

"I have him," chuckled Graves to himself.  "I've hooked my trout; and he only wants a little
playing, and I'll have him fairly landed."

Alas! it was too true.  Frank was in skilful hands; for Juniper had a double object: he wanted
to indulge his own appetite for the drink at his master's expense; and he also wanted to get
into his clutches such a sum of money as would enable him to make a fair start at the diggings
on the Melbourne side of the Australian continent.  His friend of the cottage, through whom
he obtained his supply of spirits, was well acquainted with many of the returned diggers, and
gave him full information on all subjects about which he inquired connected with the gold-digging.
His object in the first place was to get as much of his master's money into his own possession
as he could do without direct robbery; his next object was to keep his master out of every
one else's clutches but his own.  So he laid himself out in every way to keep Frank amused
and occupied, and to leave him as little time as possible for reflection.  The spirit-bottle
was never allowed to be empty or out of the way; Juniper could produce it at a moment's notice.
He took care to do so with special dexterity whenever he could engage his master in a game
of cards.  Juniper was an accomplished gambler; he had often played with his young master when
they were out alone on fishing or shooting expeditions at Greymoor Park.  Frank used then to
lose money to him in play occasionally, but Juniper was always wily enough not to push his
advantage too far--he never would allow himself to win more than small sums.  But now he had
a different purpose on hand; and so, from time to time, he would draw on his master to play
for hours together, keeping the drink going all the while, and managing himself to preserve
a sufficient sobriety to prevent his losing his self-possession and defeating his end in view.
Thus, by degrees, Frank found his money melting fast and faster away.  If he complained of
this to Juniper, that worthy either assured him he was mistaken, or that the money had only
gone to defray the necessary expenses of the establishment; or else he laughed, and said, "Well,
sir, you didn't play as well as usual last night.  I suppose your luck was bad, or your head
wasn't very clear. You lost more than usual, but you'll win it all back; and, after all, I
should never think of keeping it if you're really in want of it at any time."

"Juniper, you're a good fellow," said his poor miserable dupe; "you mean well--I know you do.
I'm sure you wouldn't deceive or rob me."

"Me deceive! me rob, Mr Frank!  No indeed, sir; I hope I've too much duplicity to do anything
of the kind.  Why, didn't I come out here just because I'd such a hampering after you, Mr Frank?
No; I trust, indeed, that you'll never ascertain such hard thoughts of me for a moment."

"Never fear," was his master's reply; "I believe you love me too well, Juniper, to wrong me."

But there was one who did not think so.  Hubert Oliphant had discovered, with dismay, that
Frank's new servant was none other than the reprobate groom of Greymoor Park.  He had called
as soon as he heard of it, and implored his friend to dismiss Graves from his service.  But
Frank would not hear of such a thing.  He dwelt on his old servant's affection, self-sacrifice,
and devotion to himself; he palliated his faults, and magnified his virtues; so that poor Hubert
had to retire baffled and heart-sick.  There remained but one other effort to be made, and
that was through Jacob Poole, who was informed by Hubert of Juniper's character.  Jacob did
not decline the duty, though the service was both a difficult and delicate one; for there was
a decision and simple earnestness about his character which made him go forward, without shrinking,
to undertake whatever he was persuaded he was rightly called upon to do.

It was on a lovely summer's evening that Jacob made his way, with a heavy heart, to his former
master's cottage.  How he had once loved that place! and how he loved it still!--only there
had fallen a blight on all that was beautiful, and that was the blight of sin.  As he approached
the house, he heard singing from more than one voice.  He drew near the verandah; and there,
by a little round table--on which was a bottle and tumblers, and a box of cigars--sat, or rather
lolled, Frank and his man, smoking, drinking, and playing cards.

"And so it's you, Jacob, my boy!" cried Frank; "it's quite an age since I've seen you; the
boggarts haven't kept you away, I hope?"

"No, mayster, it's not the boggarts; it's my own heart as has kept me away."

"What, Jacob! you've fallen in love with some fair maiden--is that it?"

"No, Mr Frank; I haven't fallen in love with any young wench, and there's some of the other
sex as I'm still less like to fall in love with."

"Oh, you mean my friend Juniper here!  Well, I'm sorry any one should fall foul of poor Juniper;
he's an old servant of mine, Jacob, and he's come all the way over from England on purpose
to serve me again."

"I'm thinking," said Jacob, who had too much Lancashire downrightness and straightforwardness
to use any diplomacy, or go beating about the bush, "as it's very poor service ye'll get from
him, Mr Frank, if I may be allowed to speak out my mind.  He's drawn you into the mire again
already, that's plain enough.  Oh, dear mayster, I cannot hold my tongue--I must and I will
speak plain to you.  If you let this man serve you as he's doing now, he'll just make a tool
on you for his own purposes, till he's squeezed every drop of goodness out of you, and left
you like a dry stick as is fit for nothing but the burning."

It is impossible to describe adequately the changes which passed over the countenance of Juniper
Graves while this brief conversation was being carried on.  Rage, malice, fear, hatred--all
were mingled in his mean and cunning features.  But he controlled himself; and at last spoke
with an assumed smoothness, which, however, could not quite hide the passion that made his
voice tremulous.

"Really, sir, I don't know who this young man is--some escaped convict, I should think; or
American savage, I should imagine, by his talk.  I really hope, sir, you're not going to listen
to this wild sort of garbage.  If it wasn't demeaning myself, and making too much of the impertinent
young scoundrel, I'd bring an action against him for reformation of character."

"There, there, Juniper," said Frank, motioning him to be quiet; "don't distress yourself. 
Jacob's prejudiced; he don't really know you, or he'd speak differently.  You must be friends;
for I know you both love me, and would do anything to serve me.  Come, Jacob, give Juniper
your hand; take my word for it, he's an honest fellow."

But Jacob drew back.

"I know nothing about his honesty," he said; "but I do know one thing, for Mr Hubert's told
me--he's led you into sin at home, Mayster Frank, and he'll lead you into sin again here; and
he's just cutting you off from your best friends and your brightest hopes; and I've just come
over once more to beg and beseech you, by all as you holds dear, to have nothing no more to
do with yon drunken profligate.  I'd rayther have said this to yourself alone, but you've forced
me to say it now, and it's better said so nor left unsaid altogether.  And now I'll bid you
good evening, for it's plain I can do little good if I tarry longer." He turned and left them:
as he did so, Frank's last look was one of mingled anger, shame, remorse, despair; Juniper's
was one of bitter, deadly, fiery hatred.

But other thoughts soon occupied the mind of the tempter.  It was plain to him that, if he
was to keep a firm hold on his young master, he must get him, as speedily as possible, out
of the reach of his old friends. How was he to accomplish this?  At last a scheme suggested itself.

"What say you, Mr Frank," he asked suddenly one morning, when his master was evidently rather
gloomily disposed--"what say you to a tramp to the diggings? wouldn't it be famous?  We could
take it easy; there's first-rate fishing in the Murray, I hear.  We could take our horses,
our fishing-tackle, our guns, our pannikins, and our tether-ropes; we must have plenty of powder
and shot, and then we shall be nice and independent.  If you'd draw out, sir, what you please
from the bank, I'll bring what I've got with me.  I've no doubt I shall make a first- rate
digger, and we'll come back again with our fortunes made."

"It's rather a random sort of scheme," said his master; "but I'm sick of this place and of
my present life.  Anything for a bit of a change--so let's try the diggings."

A few days after Jacob's visit to the cottage, it was rumoured that Frank Oldfield and his
man had left the colony.  Hubert called at the place and found that they were indeed gone,
and that it was quite uncertain when they purposed to return.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

THE LONE BUSH.

It was about a fortnight after Hubert's call at the cottage that a bullock-driver, dusty and
bronzed, came into the office at King William Street, and asked to speak to Mr Oliphant's nephew.

"I suppose, sir, you're Mr Hubert Oliphant," said the man.

"I am."

"Well, I've just come in from the bush.  It's four days now since I left Tanindie--it's a sheep-station
down on the Murray.  Thomas Rowlands, as shepherds there, asked me to come and tell you that
there's a young gent called Scholfield, or Oldfield, or some such name, as is dangerously ill
in a little log-hut near the river.  The chap as came down with him has just cut and run, and
left him to shift for himself; and he's likely to have a bad time of it, as he seems to have
some sort of fever, and there's no doctor nearer than forty miles."

Hubert was greatly shocked.

"And how came the shepherd to think about sending to us?" he asked.

"Oh, the poor young man's been raving and talking about you scores of times; and Mr Abraham's
name's well-known all over the colony."

Hubert went to his uncle with the information.

"What can we do?" he asked; "I'll gladly go to him, if you can spare me for a few days."

Jacob Poole, who was in the office, and had heard the conversation, now interposed,--

"Oh, Mayster Oliphant, let me go to him.  I'm more used to roughing it nor you.  I'll see to
poor Mayster Frank.  I can't forget what he's done for me; and maybe, if God spares him, and
that rascal Juniper Graves keeps out of the road, he'll do well yet."

This plan commended itself to Mr Oliphant and his nephew, and it was resolved that Jacob should
go at once.  His master furnished him with what he needed, and bade him send word to him if
he should find himself in any trouble or difficulty.

"You'll find him out easy enough," said the bullock-driver to Mr Oliphant, "for there's a party
of mounted police setting off this afternoon for the Murray, and the crossing's only about
two miles lower down than the hut.  If he as goes joins the police, he'll be there in half
the time it took me to come up."

So it was arranged that Jacob should start immediately.

"And never mind," said Mr Oliphant, "about the time of your coming back.  If you can be of
any service to your poor young master by staying on with him, do so.  And keep with him altogether
if he wishes to take you again into his service.  It may keep him from the drink, now that
vagabond's taken himself off, though I'll be bound he hasn't gone empty- handed.  Should you
wish, however, Jacob, to come back again to me, either now or at any future time, I'll find
you a place, for I can always make an opening for a stanch total abstainer."

Jacob's preparations were soon made.  He furnished himself with all necessaries, and then joined
the party of police on a stout little bush horse, and started that afternoon on his journey.
It was drawing towards the evening of the second day after their departure from Adelaide, when
they came in sight of the river Murray, where a long shelving bank of reeds, like a small forest,
intervened between themselves and the river.  The country all round them was wild and wooded,
with little to remind of civilised man except the tracks of bullock-drays.

"And here we part," said the leader of the police.  "I've no doubt you'll soon reach the hut
you're seeking if you keep along the bank of the river; but be sure you don't lose sight of that."

"Perhaps," said one of the men, "there may be some one not far-off who could show him his way,
so that he'd lose no time.  Shall I cooey?"

"Ay, do," said the captain.  So the man uttered a prolonged "Coo-oo-oo- ee!" and all paused.
A faint answering "Cooey" was heard in the distance.  Then a second "Cooey" was answered by
a nearer response, and soon after a stout-looking bushman made his appearance.

"Can you take this young man to a hut about two miles up the river, where there's a young Englishman
lying sick?" asked the captain.

"Ay, surely I can," was the reply.  "I've only left it an hour since."

So Jacob took a hearty farewell of his escort, and in another minute was following his new guide.

"A relation of the young gent's, I guess?" asked the bushman.

"No, only an old servant.  He saved my life, and I want to help save his, please God."

"You'll not do much towards saving it if you give him the same sort of medicine the last chap
did," remarked the other drily.

"The drink, you mean," said Jacob.  "No; I'm not likely to do anything of the sort, for I'm
an out-and-out total abstainer."

"I'm right glad to hear it; give me your hand, friend," cried the bushman, treating him, at
the same time, to a grip which made his fingers tingle.  "I wish we'd more of your sort among
us.  It'd be better for 'em, body and soul."

"Then, of course, you're an abstainer yourself."

"To be sure I am.  I've four brothers, and not one of us has ever tasted any intoxicating drink."

"And do you live hereabouts?" inquired Jacob.

"Yes; my father's head-shepherd at Tanindie.  We all live together, my mother and all."

"And you find you can do your work without the drink?"

"Look there," said the other, stopping short, and baring his arm.  "Feel that; some muscle
there, I reckon.  That muscle's grown on unfermented liquors.  Me and my four brothers are
all just alike.  We never trouble the doctor, any of us."

"Ah!" said Jacob; "I've heard strange talk about `can't do without wine;' `can't do without
beer;' `can't do without spirits;' `heat of the climate makes it needful to make up for wear
and tear of body,' and so on.  And then, I've seen a many shake their heads and say as young
people can't do without a little now and then `to brace up their nerves,' as they call it,
`and give a tone to the constitootion.'  I've heard a deal of this talk in the old country."

"`Plenty gammon, plenty gammon,' all that, as the black fellows say," replied the other.  "Truth
is, people makes artificial wants, and then they must have artificial stimulants.  We're no
great scholars in our house, but we gets a good many books even out here in the bush, and reads
them at odd times; and we've read a great deal of nonsense about young people wanting beer
and wine, and such things.  If people gets themselves into an unnatural state, they wants unnatural
food.  But where's the real need?  I don't believe the world would suffer a pin if all the
intoxicating drinks were thrown into the sea to-morrow.  Indeed, I'm sure it would be a thousandfold
better."

"I'm sure of the same," said Jacob.  "But I suppose it isn't all of your trade as thinks so."

"No, indeed; more's the pity.  There's plenty about us that loves their drink a vast deal too
well.  I can tell you strange tales about some of them.  I've known hardworking fellows, that
have kept sober all the year, go up at the year's end, with all they have saved, to Adelaide,
and put it into the publican's hand, telling him, `There, you keep that, and give me drink,
as I calls for it, till I've drunk it all out.'"

"And I'll warrant," said Jacob, "as publicans'll not be particular as to a gallon or two about
giving them the full worth of their brass."

"Not they, you may be very sure; and as soon as the publican has squeezed them dry, out they
go, neck and crop."

"And don't that larn 'em better?" asked Jacob.

"Not a bit of it," replied his companion; "for there's no fool like a drunken fool.  They'll
do anything for a spree.  They're like madmen when they go off with their wages.  You may find
three or four shepherds clubbing together.  They'll call for champagne, and then for a pail.
Then they'll knock the necks off the bottles, pour the champagne into the pail, and ladle it
out with their pannikins as they sit round.  And if that don't satisfy them, they'll add a
bottle of brandy, or rum, or some other spirit.  I think they're fairly crazy after the drink
in this colony."

"I shouldn't be surprised," said Jacob.  "It's much the same in most places in the old country."

"Here we are," said the young bushman, shortly after, as they made their way through the tangled
trees and shrubs, and came upon a large-sized log-hut.

How strange it was, that solitary hut in that lone wilderness, and in view of the shining river!
All around was wild and primitive; and fair in its negligent beauty as though it had never
been disturbed by the hand of man.  The hut was large and well-constructed, though now a little
falling to decay.  It was built of logs laid horizontally in order one above another, and rendered
tolerably wind-proof by the moss and clay which served to fill up the crevices.

Into this primitive dwelling Jacob followed his guide.  He was surprised at the air of comfort
presented by the interior.  Not that there was much to boast of in the way of furniture, but
great pains and skill had evidently been used to give an air of snugness to the one long, desolate
apartment of which the hut consisted.  On a low, roughly-made bedstead lay poor Frank Oldfield,
judiciously shielded from draughts by hangings of carefully arranged drapery.  His various
possessions lay around him, neatly piled up, or hung on the walls.  And what struck Jacob with
both pleasure and surprise, was a text in large printed characters on the wall--opposite the
foot of the bed.  The words of the text were: "The blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth from all
sin."  Oh, what a marvellous power have the words of the blessed Bible to prove their own heavenly
origin in circumstances like these!  In a moment it was clear to Jacob that his master was
in good hands.  These words out of that volume which is the revelation of the God of love to
poor guilty sinners, told him so with a force which no eloquence or assurance from human lips
could strengthen.  Yet there were other, and very pleasing, proofs also, for at the bed's head
sat a middle-aged, kindly-looking woman, who was acting the part of nurse to the poor emaciated
figure that lay on that couch of sickness.

"Who is it?" asked a feeble voice, as the newcomers entered the hut.

"An old servant, mother, of the gentleman's," answered the young bushman.

"What, Jacob Poole!" exclaimed Frank, raising himself up.

"There, don't worry or excite yourself," said the kind woman.  "I'll prop you up a bit, but
you mustn't talk too much.  It'll only make you bad again."

Jacob came forward.

"Mr Frank," he said, "I've come over, as soon as I heard as you was badly, to do whatever I
can for you.  Mr Oliphant's let me come; and he and Mr Hubert's rare and vexed as you're so
ill.  So I'm to see as you want for nothing, and to let them know how you're coming on.  And
I'm bound to stay with you till you gets round again."

The poor patient held out his hand to Jacob, while the tears streamed down his face.

"You're all very good to me," he said; "too good, far better than I deserve.  But I hope God
may spare me to reward you, if I can.  You see, Jacob, I'm brought very low.  That rascal Juniper
robbed me of fifty pounds, and deserted me when I was getting ill.  He would have taken all
my money, I've no doubt, if he'd only known where to find it.  If it had not been for my kind
nurse here, and her husband, I should not have been alive now."

Here he sank back, exhausted with the effort of speaking.  He was sadly altered.  His fine
features were sunk and pinched, his cheeks blanched, and his lips cracked and swollen; while
his beautiful hair, once his mother's pride, had fallen under the scissors of the shepherd's
wife. He was about to speak again, when his nurse motioned Jacob to be seated, and said to
her patient,--

"Now, sir, you must just keep silent, and let me tell all about your troubles to this young
man.  You see, it seems that Mr Oldfield and that man of his, who appears to be a regular scoundrel,
came down and settled in this hut, to try a taste of `bush' life, fishing and shooting, and
the like.  But, dear heart, it was all well enough for a day or two; but after a bit the young
gentleman got weary of it.  So they took to passing a good deal of their time in drinking and
playing cards, I'm afraid.  I hope, young man, you're not given to anything of the sort?"

"Me!" exclaimed Jacob; "no, ma'am; that's not in my line, I can assure you.  It's the drink
as parted my poor mayster and me afore.  I'm a gradely total abstainer, and mean to be all
the days of my life, please God."

"I'm heartily glad to hear it," said the good woman.  "You'll do the young gentleman no harm
then, I hope, but good.  Well, as I was saying, when they'd been a long time at this drinking
and card-playing, what with the heat, and what with the change in his way of living, the poor
gentleman took ill; so what did that man of his do?  Why, he looked after him for a day or
so, and then he made pretence that he'd take one of the horses, and go and look for a doctor,
or for some one who could come and give a help.  But, bless you, he never cared about doctor,
but went straight off with both the horses, and one of the guns, and all the powder and shot
as was left, and whatever else he could carry; and it seems too, from what the gentleman says,
that he's taken and robbed his master of fifty pounds."

"And how did you happen to light on him, and find out he was sick?" asked Jacob.

"Why, I was just going to tell you.  My master and Dick--Dick's our youngest boy, you know--was
looking after a stray sheep, when they comes up to this hut, and hears a strange moaning noise.
They went in at once, and there was this young gentleman in a high fever, raving, and talking
all sorts of wild things, and half dead for want of water.  So my master goes back at once
to our cottage and fetches me, and here I've been, off and on, ever since.  It's a mercy my
master found him when he did, or he must have died afore long."

Frank Oldfield nodded his head in assent, and held out his hand, first to the shepherd's wife,
and then to Jacob.  "And so you've come to stay a bit with your old master, Jacob.  Thank God
for that."

"Ay, that's right," said the good woman; "thank Him--you've cause to do so, I'm sure God seems
nearer to us who live out in the bush, in one way.  I mean, our mercies and blessings seem
to come straighter like from his own hand when we've so few of our fellow-Creatures about us."

"Jacob," said his master earnestly, "I trust, if I'm spared, that I shall really turn over
a new leaf, gradely, as you'd say.  The drink has been my curse, my ruin, and almost my death.
I'll give it up altogether, and sign the pledge, if God raises me up to health and strength again."

"Ay, do, mayster," replied the other; "it'll be the best thing you ever did in all your life."

The shepherd's wife was now able to delegate many of her kind offices to Jacob, who proved
a most loving and tender nurse.  In a few days their patient was able to sit up without difficulty,
and, after a while, to leave the hut for the shepherd's comfortable cottage, to which he was
conveyed on a litter of boughs by the stout arms of the shepherd and his sons.  Here it was
agreed that he should remain as a regular lodger, at a moderate remuneration for himself and
Jacob, which his host and hostess were rather loath to accept, but the refusal of which they
saw would give Frank Oldfield much pain.  Jacob was his master's devoted attendant, watching
over him as a mother over her child.

It was one fine afternoon, when Frank was better than usual, that he turned to Jacob in the
midst of a walk, and said abruptly, "Jacob, should you like to go to the diggings?"

"Why, Mayster Frank," was the reply, "I've often thought I should just like to try my hand
at it, for I was trained as a lad to pit-work.  But I should never think of leaving you till
you're all right again, nor then either, unless you'd wish it yourself."

"What made me ask you," said his master, "was this.  My kind landlord's three eldest sons are
going, as you know, to try their hands for three months or so at gold-digging.  Now, if you'd
like to go with them, it would be a real pleasure to me.  You would go in capital company,
as they are all stanch teetotallers, like yourself; and nothing would rejoice me more than
to find you coming back with a bag full of nuggets."

"But what'll you do while I'm off, Mr Frank?"

"Oh, that's easily answered.  My kind hostess, and her husband, and two youngest sons will
be able to do all I want, as I'm getting well so fast; and I shall be glad of an excuse to
stop here in this quiet place for a while, and not return to Adelaide.  I can say, and say
with truth, that I am waiting till you and your party come back from the diggings."

Jacob Poole had no objections to make; so in a few days the four young men had crossed the
Murray, and were on their way to the gold-fields.

It is not necessary to describe in detail the history of the party from Tanindie during their
stay at the diggings, but one or two scenes must be introduced which will further our story.

It was a calm Sabbath evening; the click of the pick, the rattle of the cradle, the splashing
of the water-buckets--all were still.  Outwardly the day had been kept strictly as a day of
rest by all.  Beneath a tall tree stood, in the dress of a minister of the gospel, a middle-aged
but grey-headed man.  A rough stool served him for a seat, and a few upturned buckets, supporting
some loose planks, were appropriated to the few women and children, while the men stood behind
these in various attitudes, but all very attentive; for in such a congregation as this there
were none but willing listeners.  Those who had no mind to the preaching simply pleased themselves,
and stayed away.  After the singing of a hymn, given out two lines at a time, for the minister
alone possessed a hymn-book, a fervent prayer was offered up by the good man, at the commencement
of which almost all the little company sank gently on their knees.  A few stood, but all remained
bareheaded till its conclusion.

From these words he addressed his earnestly attentive congregation in the simplest language,
but every word came from the heart, and made his hearers feel that he was not standing himself
on one side, and bidding them go forward, but was beckoning to them to follow along the path
on which he was already going before them.  He spoke of the uncertainty of life, and they knew
that he spoke the truth; for many who had come there to search for gold had been cut off in
the midst of their labours.  He spoke of the uncertainty of earthly gain and prosperity, and
they knew that he spoke the truth; for many who had left home, and had sold all to come to
these diggings, had returned beggars.  He spoke of the emptiness of the earthly compared with
the fulness of the heavenly inheritance, and bid them set eternity against time, the riches
of heaven against the gold of the earth, the house of glory against their shifting tents, the
rest of a home with God against their present wanderings, and many a sigh and tear escaped
from lips and eyes that seldom spoke or looked except for earthly things.  And then he told
them of the blood of Christ that was shed for their souls, and must be infinitely more precious
than corruptible silver or gold, and urged them never to rest satisfied till they could feel
that they were truly the children of God and followers of Jesus; for what would it profit them
if they gained the whole world and lost their own souls?  Lastly, he pleaded with them to lose
no time, but to come at once just as they were, and not any of them to hang back through fear
or doubt; for the love of Jesus Christ was deep enough to swallow up the sins of them all,
and was, like himself, "the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever."  The simple service concluded
with another hymn and prayer, and then all dispersed, silent and thoughtful. On Jacob Poole,
who had been one of the congregation, the sermon of the good minister made a deep impression.
He had often heard the gospel preached before, but it had never hitherto come home to his heart
as a personal concern, as it did now.  There was to him a reality about it such as he had never
understood before.  His heart was yearning for something; he felt that the gospel was that
something, that it could satisfy his heart's cravings.  All through the service, but for about
half a minute, he had kept his eyes fixed on the preacher.  He withdrew them for that half
minute to glance round at a man who brushed past him and walked on.  As he turned, the man
averted his face.  He thought it was a face not altogether strange to him, and yet he could
not recall where he had seen it.  But his eyes returned to the preacher, and other thoughts
occupied his mind and heart.  During the rest of that week he was ill at ease.  Many thoughts
came crowding in upon him as he worked vigorously in the hole assigned to him.  Hitherto he
had believed men sinners in the gross, and himself as bad but not worse than the general average.
Now he began to know that he was really himself a sinner, whose transgressions of God's holy
laws would bring upon him eternal death, unless he sought and found the only refuge.  But was
the gospel message really for him?  Would Jesus, whom he had so long reverenced, yet never
hitherto really loved, be still willing to receive him?  He waited impatiently for the return
of the Sabbath.  It came at last, and Christ's ambassador was at his old place under the tree
with words full of love and encouragement.  At the end of his sermon, before retiring, he said,--

"If there is any one of you, my dear hearers, who is in any way troubled in conscience, or
for any other reason would wish any conversation with me on religious subjects, I shall be
only too happy to talk with him now in my tent."

No one spoke, and the good man went his way.  But in a little while Jacob Poole followed him,
and asked to be allowed to speak with him for a few minutes.  He entered the minister's tent
with a distressed and anxious countenance; but when he came away from the interview in which
he had unburdened his sorrows, and laid open all his difficulties, there was a bright and happy
look on his features, which spoke of a mind stayed on God and a heart at peace.  Just as he
was leaving the minister's tent, a swift, quiet step came behind him; he turned very quickly,
and again his eyes fell on the same countenance which he had seen when a person brushed by
him at the previous Sunday's service. Another moment, and the man had vanished in the dusk.
Again he was puzzled.  He could not at all remember where he had seen that face, and yet certainly
he had seen it before.  There was something forbidding and malicious in it, and a sort of dread
crept over him.  And yet he could not tell why he should fear.  However, he resolved to be
on his guard, for strange things had often happened at the diggings, and there were men prowling
about the colony who would care nothing about shedding blood, if they could secure thereby
the gains of a successful digger. He said nothing, however, to his companions; for it seemed
an absurd thing to trouble them with his vague impressions and misgivings, especially as the
man who had thus twice been near him had done nothing more than approach him and pass on.

It was some ten days later, and violent winds with heavy rains had driven the most ardent diggers
early to their tents.  Jacob was revolving in his mind what he had heard at the last Sunday's
preaching, and thoughts of home, and duties left undone there, made him very sad. Then he thought
of his young master at Tanindie, and wondered how he was progressing, and whether he would
at length really take the one decided step and become a pledged abstainer.  Thus he mused on,
till the twilight melted rapidly into darkness.  Then, having lifted up his heart to God in
prayer, he threw himself down on his bed.  But he could not sleep, though weary enough with
the exhausting labours of many days. Suddenly he half raised himself; he thought he heard a
strange noise like some one breathing not far from his head.  Then the wind, which had lulled
for a second or two, resumed its violence, and flapped the canvas of his tent backwards and
forwards.  Again he lay down, but shortly afterwards thought he heard the breathing again--or
was he only deceiving himself?  It was difficult to hear anything else distinctly for the noise
made by the flapping of the tent and the creaking of its supports.  Still, he did not feel
easy.  And now in the dusk it seemed to him that the lower part of the folds of the tent near
his bed's head moved in a peculiar manner, such as the wind could not cause.  Without rising,
he silently and cautiously rolled himself over from the bed till he could lay his hand on a
large rug;--this he quietly folded up, and, creeping back, laid it in his own place on the
bed itself.  Then, drawing himself round noiselessly, he lay at full-length on the ground,
at right angles to the bed, with his face not far from the bolster.  Not a sound, except the
flapping and creaking of the tent, was heard for some time, till Jacob, feigning to be asleep,
began to breathe hard, and then to snore louder and louder.  Suddenly he was aware that the
canvas was lifted slowly a few feet from where he was stretched along.  He continued, however,
still to breathe hard, as one in a deep sleep. Another moment, and a man was stealthily raising
himself to his knees inside the tent.  Then the intruder raised his arm.  Jacob, concealed
by a fold of the tent, could just make out that the man's hand grasped some weapon.  The next
instant there was a plunge downward of the hand, and a suppressed exclamation of surprise.
But Jacob waited to see and hear no more.  Catching up a spade, which he knew was close by,
he aimed a furious blow at the intended assassin.  He did not, however, fully reach his mark--the
blow fell partly short, yet not altogether; there was a cry of pain and terror, and then the
murderous intruder rushed from the tent, and made his escape, before Jacob could recover his
balance, which he had lost in the violence of his stroke.  And now conjecture and suspicion
were changed to certainty.  He could not doubt whose was the voice that uttered that cry; it
was too hateful to him ever to be forgotten; he was now sure that his surmises were true, and
that the man whom he had twice seen so near him was the same who had just been attempting his
life, and was none other than Juniper Graves.  He must have blackened his hair and cultivated
a moustache, which would account for Jacob's being puzzled to identify him.  As soon as he
could recover from his surprise, Jacob armed himself with a revolver, and cautiously examined
the ground outside his tent, thinking that perhaps his enemy might be lurking about, or might
have been disabled by the blow of his spade.

"I'm certain I marked the villain," he said to himself.  "I'm sure, by the way he hollered
out, he's got summat with him as he'll remember me by."  But all was still, except the howling
of the wind and the pattering and splashing of the driving rain.  Then he made his way to the
large tent which the brothers, his companions, all occupied in common.  He told his story,
which, of course, excited both the sympathy and indignation of his hearers.  But what was to
be done?

"No use looking for him to-night," said one; "he's bolted off far enough by this time, you
may depend on't.  As good look for a black fellow in the Murray reeds, as search for this precious
scoundrel in the dark. Here; one of us'll come and share your tent to-night, and to-morrow
we'll raise a hue and cry."

But hue and cry were raised in vain.  Juniper Graves, if he were the culprit, was gone, and
had left no trace behind.  Nothing more was seen or heard of him; no such person was to be
found at the diggings, and no one seemed to know anything about him.  So Jacob was left in
peace till the three months were gone, and then returned to Tanindie, the party having met
with rather more than average good fortune.

When the first greetings were over, and Jacob had expressed his delight at the thorough restoration
of his master's health, Frank turned to his faithful servant and said,--

"Well, Jacob, you've brought me good news, as you've come back safe, and a rich man; and, indeed,
if you'd only brought yourself it would have been good news to me.  But I am not quite so sure
that you'll think my news good news, when you hear what I have to tell you."

A cloud gathered on Jacob's face, as he said tremblingly,--

"Eh, surely, mayster, you--you--you've not been--"

"Oh, no, no," laughed Frank; "set your mind at rest, Jacob; I'm a thorough teetotaller now,
and have been ever since you left."

"And mean to be so still, I hope, mayster."

"I hope so," was the reply.  "But you have not heard my news, Jacob. I'm thinking of going
home; not home to Adelaide, but back across the sea again--home to England."

"Indeed, Mayster Frank.  Well, I'm not so sorry to hear it."

"Are you not?" said his master, with a look of disappointment.  "I thought you might have been.
At any rate, I shall be sorry to lose you, Jacob, for you've been more like a brother than
a servant to me; though, it's true, you'll not be much of a sufferer by losing me."

"Ay, but, Mayster Frank, there's no reason why either on us should lose t'other.  I haven't
forgotten what you did for me on board ship; and I'll serve ye still here or in the old country,
till you can find one as'll suit you better."

"Jacob, you're a good fellow," replied his master; "you shall be my servant, then, and we will
go back to Old England together.  I'll tell you just how it is.  My dear mother wants me home
again--it seems she can't be content without me; and as there really is no special reason why
I should remain in the colony--and certainly I haven't been much of an ornament to it, nor
credit to my friends here--I think it better to meet her wishes and return."

"And I'll go with you, with all my heart," said the other; "only then you mustn't think, mayster,
as it's all on your own account as says so; it wouldn't be honest to let you think so.  Truth
is, I've been having a talk wi' a good minister as came a-preaching where we were on the Sabbath
up at the diggings; and he's opened my eyes a bit; or, rather, the Lord's opened 'em through
him.  So you see, I've been asking him what's my duty about them as I've left at home, and
it seems to me, by what the good man says, as I haven't dealt by 'em quite as I should. It's
a long story, and I needn't trouble you with it; but it just comes to this: I came back from
the diggings with my mind made up to go home again first opportunity.  So, you see, mayster,
as you're going yourself, I can go with you all right now."

"And do you know, Jacob--or rather, I'm pretty sure that you don't know, that your old friend,
Captain Merryweather, has been to Adelaide.  He's gone to Melbourne now, but he'll be back
in a month, and we can take our passage home in the dear old Sabrina."

CHAPTER NINETEEN.

HOMEWARD BOUND.

It was a month after the return of Jacob and his party from the diggings that Frank, Jacob,
and Captain Merryweather met on board the Sabrina at Port Adelaide.

"So, Jacob, my boy," cried the captain; "why, how you're grown! Colonial life agrees with you.
I should hardly have known you.  And you're coming home in the old ship.  I'm heartily glad
of it; that is, supposing you're the same lad as when you sailed with me before.  I mean, as
stanch an abstainer."

"Ay, that he is," said Frank warmly.

"And you too, Mr Oldfield?"

"Well, I am at present," replied the other, colouring; "and I hope to continue so."

"Ah, then, I suppose you've never signed the pledge."

"No; more's the pity."

"Oh, Mayster Frank," interposed Jacob, "you promised me, when you were so ill, as you'd sign
when you got better."

"And so I will; but it's no use signing for the first time now, when I'm going home in a total
abstinence ship.  I'll join some society at home. Our good rector's, for instance.  Yes; I'll
join his, and my name and example will be really of some use then."

"Excuse me, Mr Oldfield, pressing you on the subject, but I hope you'll allow me the privilege
of an old friend," said the captain.  "I feel so very strongly on the matter.  I've seen so
very much mischief done from putting off; and if a thing's worth doing, it's worth doing at
once; take my advice--`There's no time like the present;' `Never put off till to-morrow what
you can do to-day;' these are two good proverbs.  I've found them of immense value in my line
of life."

"Yes; they're very good proverbs, no doubt," said Frank, laughing; "but there are some as good,
perhaps, on the other side, though you won't think so; for instance, `Second thoughts are best,'
and `Better late than never.'"

"True, Mr Oldfield; but `late' often runs into never."

Frank made a gay, evasive reply, and turned hastily away, leaving Jacob to arrange some matters
in his cabin, while he went himself on shore.

He was loitering about among the warehouses till Jacob should join him, when a figure which
seemed familiar to him approached, in earnest conversation with another man, but he could not
see the face of either distinctly.  After a while they parted, and the man whom he seemed to
recognise was left alone, and turned towards him.  But could it really be?  Dare he believe
his eyes?  Yes; there could be no mistake, it was indeed Juniper Graves.  That rather reckless
character was, however, much more spruce in his appearance, and better dressed, than when in
Frank Oldfield's service.  There was an assumption of the fine gentleman about him, which made
him look ludicrously contemptible, and had Frank not been roused to furious indignation at
the sight of him, he could hardly have refrained from a violent outburst of merriment at the
absurd airs and graces of his former servant.  As it was, breathless with wrath, his eyes flashing,
and his face in a crimson glow, he rushed upon the object of his just resentment, and, seizing
him by the collar, exclaimed in a voice of suppressed passion,--

"You--you confounded scoundrel! you rascally thief!  So I've caught you at last.  I'll make
very short work with you, you ungrateful villain."

Then he paused for a moment, and shaking him violently, added,--

"What have you to say for yourself, why I shouldn't hand you over at once to the police?"

Nothing could be more whimsically striking than the contrast between Juniper Graves' grand
and jaunty bearing a moment before, and his present utter crawling abjectness.  He became white
with terror, and looked the very picture of impotent cowardice.  But this was but for a minute;
then his self-possession returned to him.  He felt that, if his master gave him over immediately
in charge to the police, everything was lost; but if he could only get a hearing for a few
minutes, before any further step was taken, he was persuaded that he could manage to stem the
torrent that was bearing against him, especially as, fortunately for him, Frank Oldfield and
himself were alone.  His first object, therefore, was to gain time.

"Oh, Mr Frank, Mr Frank!" he cried beseechingly, "spare me--spare me-- you don't know all--you're
labouring under a great misapplication; if you only knew all, you'd think very indifferently
of me."

"That's just what I do now," said the other, smiling in spite of himself.  Juniper saw the
smile.  He was satisfied that his case was not hopeless.

"Pray, Mr Frank," he said humbly and softly, "pray do take your hand off my coat; there's no
need, sir--I shan't try to escape, sir--I'll follow you as impressively as a lamb--only give
me time, and I'll explain all."

"Indeed!" exclaimed Frank; "do you mean to tell me that you'll explain back my fifty pounds
into my pocket again?"

"Yes, sir, and more besides, if you'll only be patient and hear me. Thank you, sir.  If you'll
just step in here, sir, I hope to be able to explain all to your satisfaction."

They entered a little office connected with a weighing-machine, which happened to be vacant
at the time.

"Now, mind," said Frank Oldfield, when they were shut in alone, "I'll have a straightforward
statement, without any prevarication, or I give you over at once into custody.  If you can't
clear yourself, and I don't see how you possibly can, there's the jail before you, the only
place you're fit for."

"I'm quite aware, sir, that appearances are against me," said the other meekly; "but, Mr Frank,
you'll not refuse to listen to your old servant, that's devoted himself so faithfully to you
and yours in England, and came across the seas just because he couldn't abide to be separated
from you any longer."

"Come, sir," said Frank Oldfield sternly; "I'm not to be talked over in this way.  You weren't
so very anxious to avoid separation when you left me on a sick-bed, and made off with my fifty
pounds.  Come, sir, give me your explanation, as you call it, at once, and without any nonsense
about your faithfulness to me and mine, or I shall put the prison-door between you and me,
and that'll be a separation you'll not get over so easily."

"But you haven't heard me, sir; you haven't heard all.  You don't know what I have to say in
attenuation of my offence."

"I mayn't have heard all, Juniper, but I've both heard and seen about you a great deal more
than I like; so let me warn you again, I must have a plain, straightforward statement.  What
have you done with my money, and how can you justify your abandoning me in my illness?"

"Ah!  Mr Frank, you little know me--you little know what's in my heart. You little know how
every pulse reverberates with deepest affection. But I'll go to the point, sir, at once;" for
Frank began to exhibit signs of impatience.  "When I saw you was getting ill, sir, and not
able to care for yourself, I says to myself, `I must ride off for a doctor. But what'll my
poor master do while I'm gone? he's no power to help himself, and if any stranger should come
in--and who knows it mightn't be one of these bushrangers!--he'd be sure to take advantage
of him and steal his money while he lay helpless.'  So says I to myself again, `I think I'll
risk it.  I know it'll look awkward,'--but there's nothing like a good conscience, when you
know you haven't meant to do wrong. `I'll just take the money with me, and keep it safe for
him till I get back.'  Nay, please, Mr Frank, hear me out.  Well, I took the fifty pounds,
I don't deny it; it may have been an error in judgment, but we're all of us infallible beings.
I rode off to find a doctor, but no doctor could I find; but I met a young bushman, who said
he'd get some one to look after you till I could return."

"And why didn't you return; and how came you to want two horses to fetch the doctor with?"
asked Frank impatiently.

"Ah! dear sir, don't be severe with me till you know all.  I took both the horses for the same
reason that I took the money.  I was afraid a stranger might come while I was away, perhaps
a bushranger, and the very first thing he'd have laid his hands on would have been the horse."

"Well; and why didn't you come back?"

"I did try, sir, to come back, but I missed my road, and made many fruitful efforts to regain
my lost track.  At last, after I'd tried, and tried, and tried again, I gave up in despair,
and I should have perished in the scowling wilderness if I hadn't met with a party going to
the diggings.  Then the thought crossed my mind, `I'll go and dig for gold; if I succeed, I'll
show my dear master that I'm no slave to Mammoth, but I'll lay down my spoils at his feet;
and if I fail, I cannot help it.' Well, sir, I went and dug with a good will.  I prospered.
I came back to look for my dear master, but I could not find him--he was evacuated. At last
I heard that you were going to England, Mr Frank, and I said to myself; `I'll go too.  I'll
pay my own passage.  I'll be the dear young master's devoted servant, and he shall see by my
unwearied intentions that I never really could have meant to do him wrong.'"

"And do you really think me such a fool as to believe all this?" asked Frank contemptuously.

"Yes, sir; I do hope you will, sir," was the reply of Juniper.  "There, sir," he added, "I'll
give you the best proof that I'm not the rogue you took me for.  Please, sir, to read what's
on that packet, and then open it."

Frank took from his hands a heavy parcel, on which was clearly written, "F Oldfield, Esquire;
from Juniper Graves."  He opened it.  It contained six ten-pound notes and a leather bag full
of nuggets.

"There, sir," said Juniper, triumphantly, "you can tell that this is no got-up thing.  I've
had no time to write these words on the paper since you collared me.  I've carried it about
just as it is for weeks, as you may plainly see by looking at the cover of it, till I could
give it into your own hands."

It was clear, certainly, that the paper had been folded and directed some considerable time
back, as was manifest from the marks of wear and rubbing which it exhibited.  Frank was staggered.

"Really, Juniper," he said, "I don't know what to think, I can't deny that this packet has
been made up for me before our present meeting, and it has all the appearance of having been
some considerable time just as it now is.  It certainly looks as if you didn't mean to rob
me, as you've paid me, I should think, nearly double what you took.  Of course, I don't want
that.  I shall not take more than my fifty pounds."

"Oh, sir, do take the rest, as some amends for the anxiety I've caused you by my foolish act,
in taking charge of your money in the way I did without your knowledge or permission.  It was
wrong, and I oughtn't to have done it; but I meant it for the best.  And oh, dear master, do
think the best of me.  I never did mean to harm you; and I'm ready to go with you now from
the Pole to the Antipathies."

"No, Juniper, I shall only take my own," said his master; and he restored him one of the ten-pound
notes and the nuggets, which Juniper accepted with apparent reluctance.

"So far," said Frank Oldfield, "let bygones be bygones.  I trust that you'll not make any more
such awkward mistakes."

"You're satisfied then, sir?" asked Graves.

"Yes, so far as my money is concerned.  But there's a graver charge against you still.  Jacob
Poole has informed me, and asserts it most positively, that you stole into his tent at the
diggings and tried to murder him."

"Well, did I ever!" exclaimed Juniper, holding up both his hands in amazement.  "I really think,
sir, that young man can't be quite right in his head.  Me try to murder him! why, I've never
set eyes on him since the day he spoke so impertinently to me at the cottage.  Me murder him!
what can the poor, silly young man be thinking of.  It's all his fancy, sir; merely congestion
of the brain, sir, I assure you; nothing but congestion of the brain."

"It may be so," replied Frank; "but here he comes himself; let us hear what he has to say on
the subject."

They both stepped out into the open air as Jacob Poole came up.

Poor Jacob, had he seen the "father of lies" himself walking with his master, he could hardly
have been more astounded.  He rubbed his eyes, and stared hard again at Frank and his companion,
to assure himself that he was not mistaken or dreaming.  No; there could be no doubt of it.
Frank Oldfield was there, and Juniper Graves was as clearly there; and it was equally plain
that there was more of confidence than of distrust in his master's manner towards the robber
and intended murderer.  What could it all mean?

"Come here, Jacob," said Frank.  "I see you look rather aghast, and I don't wonder; but perhaps
you may find that Juniper Graves here is not quite so black as we have thought him.  He acknowledges
that he took my fifty pounds, but he says he never meant to keep it; and that he missed his
way in looking for a doctor, and afterwards joined a party at the diggings."

"Well, Mayster Frank?" said Jacob, with a look of strong incredulity.

"Ah, I see you don't believe it, and I own it don't sound very likely; but then, you see, he
has given me a proof of his wish not to wrong me; for--look here, Jacob--he has returned me
my fifty pounds, and wanted me to take another ten pounds, and some nuggets besides, his own
hard earnings at the diggings; only, of course, I wouldn't have them."

"Indeed, mayster," replied Jacob, with a dry cough of disbelief; and glancing at Juniper, who
had assumed, and was endeavouring to keep up on his cunning countenance, an appearance of injured
virtue.

"Yes, indeed, Jacob," said his master; "and we mustn't be too hard upon him.  He did wrong,
no doubt, and he has made the best amends he could. If he had been a thorough rogue, he never
would have cared to seek me out and return me my money with large interest.  And, what's more,
he's coming over to England in the same ship with us; not as my servant, but paying his own
passage, just for the sake of being near me.  That doesn't look like a thoroughly guilty conscience."

"Coming home in the same vessel with us!" cried Jacob, in utter astonishment and dismay.  "Coming
home in the same vessel!"

"Yes, Mr Poole," said Juniper, stepping forward, and speaking with an air of loftiness and
injured innocence; "and, pray, why not coming home in the same vessel?  What have you to say
against it, I should like to know?  Am I to ask your leave in what ship I shall cross the brawny
deep?  Have you a conclusive right to the company of our master?--for he is mine as well as
yours till he himself banishes me irresolutely from his presence."

"You shall not sail in the same vessel with us, if I can hinder it, as sure as my name's Jacob
Poole," said the other.

"And how can you hinder it, Mr Poole, I should like you to tell me? I ask nobody's favour.
I've paid my passage-money.  I suppose my brass, as you wulgarly call it, is as good as any
other man's."

"Well," said Jacob, "I'll just tell you what it is.  You'll have to clear up another matter
afore you can start for England.  You'll have to tell the magistrate how it was as you crept
into my tent at the diggings, and tried to stick your knife into me.  What do you say to that,
Mr Juniper Graves?"

Just the very slightest tremor passed through Juniper's limbs, and the faintest tinge of paleness
came over his countenance at this question, but he was himself again in a moment.

"Really," he exclaimed, "it's enough to throw a man off his balance, and deprive him of his
jurisprudence, to have such shocking charges brought against him.  But I should like, sir,
to ask this Mr Poole a question or two, as he's so ready to accuse me of all sorts of crimes;
he don't suppose that I'm going to take him for judge, jury, and witnesses, without having
a little shifting of the evidence."

"Well, of course, it's only fair that you should ask him for proof;" said Frank.

"Come, then, Mr Poole," said Juniper, in a fierce swaggering tone, "just tell me how you can
prove that I ever tried to murder you? Pooh! it's easy enough to talk about tents; and knives,
and such things, but how can you prove it that I ever tried to murder you? a likely thing, indeed."

"Prove it!" exclaimed Jacob, evidently a little at fault.

"Yes, prove it.  Do you think I'm going to have my character sworn away on such unsubstantial
hallucinations?  Tell me, first, what time of the day did it happen?"

"It didn't happen in the day at all, as you know well enough."

"Was it dark?"

"Yes."

"Could you see who it was as tried to murder you, as you say?"

"No."

"Then how do you know it was me?"

"I hit the scoundrel with my spade," said Jacob, indignantly, "and made him sing out, and I
knowed it were your voice; I should have knowed it among a thousand."

"And that's all your proof," said the other, sneeringly.  "You knowed my voice."

"Ay," replied Jacob; "and I left my mark on you too.  There's a scar on your hand.  I haven't
a doubt that's it."

"Can you prove it?" asked the other, triumphantly.  "A scar, indeed!  Do you think scars are
such uncommon things with men as works hard at the diggings, that you can swear to one scar?
A precious likely story!"

"Ah, but I saw you myself."

"When?"

"At two of the preachings."

"Preachings! and what then?  I didn't try and murder you at the preachings, did I?  But are
you sure it was me, after all, as you saw at the preachings?"

"Quite."

"How was I dressed?  Was the person you took for me just the same as me? Had he the same coloured
hair--smooth face, like me?"

"I'll tell you plain truth," said Jacob, warmly; "it were you.  I'm as sure as I'm here it
were you; but you'd blacked your sandy hair, and growed a beard on your lip."

"Well, I never!" cried the other, in a heat of virtuous indignation. "Here's a man as wants
to make out I tried to murder him; but when I asks him to prove it, all he says is, he couldn't
see me do it, that he heard my voice, that I've got a scar on my hand, that he saw me twice
at some preachings, but it wasn't me neither; it wasn't my hair, it wasn't my beard, and yet
he's sure it was me.  Here's pretty sort of evidence to swear away a man's life on.  Why, I
wonder, young man, you ain't ashamed to look me in the face after such a string of tergiversations."

"I think, Jacob," said his master, "you'd better say no more about it. It's plain you've no
legal proof against Juniper; you may be mistaken, after all.  Let us take the charitable side,
and forget what's past. There, shake hands; and as we're to be all fellow-voyagers, let us
all be friends."

But Jacob drew back.

"No, mayster; I'll not grip the hand of any man, if my heart cannot go with it.  Time'll show.
By your leave, I'll go and get the dog-cart ready; for I suppose you'll be going back to Adelaide
directly?"

His master nodding assent, Jacob went to fetch the vehicle, and on his return found his master
in earnest conversation with Juniper.

"Good-bye, then, Juniper, till we meet next Thursday on board the Sabrina," he cried.

"Good-bye, sir; and many thanks for your kindness."

Jacob, of course, uttered no word of farewell; but just looking round for an instant, he saw
Juniper's eyes fixed on him with such a look of deadly, savage hatred, as assured him--though
he needed no such assurance--that his intended murderer was really there.

"I think, Jacob, you're rather hard on Juniper," said his master, as they drove along.  "He
has done wrong; but I am persuaded he has still a strong attachment to me, and I really cannot
think he can have been the person who tried to murder you.  Why should you think it, Jacob?
He's never done you any harm before."

"Mr Frank, you must excuse me; but I'm sure I'm not mistaken.  He's always hated me ever since
the day I spoke out my mind to you at the cottage.  Take my word for it, Mr Frank, he's no
love for you; he only wants to make a tool of you, just to serve his own purposes."

"Nay, nay, Jacob, my good fellow; not so fast.  He cannot be so utterly selfish, or he never
would have offered me the extra ten-pound note and the nuggets, over and above the fifty pounds,
if he hadn't really a love for me, and a true sorrow for what he has done wrong."

"I cannot see that," was the reply.  "Of course, he knowed he was likely to meet you when he
came to Adelaide; and he was pretty sure what'd happen if you gave him in charge to the police.
He knowed well enough they wouldn't listen to his tale; so, just to keep clear of the prison,
he gave you the money, and made up his story just to save hisself.  He knowed fast enough as
you'd never take more nor your fifty pounds."

"Ah, but Jacob," said his master, "you're wrong there.  He had made up the parcel, nuggets
and all, and directed it to me long before he saw me.  Don't that show that he intended it
all for me, whether he met me or no?"

"Not a bit of it, Mr Frank," replied Jacob, bluntly.  "He knowed precious well how to play
his game.  I'll be bound there's summat wrong about his getting this gold; I'll ne'er believe
he dug it up hisself.  I shouldn't wonder if he hasn't robbed some poor chap as has worked
hard for it; and now he wants to get out of the colony as fast as he can afore he's found out.
And, in course, he's been carrying this brass lapped up a long time, just in case you should
light on him at any time, and he might seem to have a proper tale to tell.  But you may be
right sure, Mr Frank, as you'd ne'er have seen a penny of it if he could only have got clear
out of the colony without coming across yourself."

"You're not very charitable, Jacob, I think," said his master; "but it may be as you say. 
And yet, why should he be so anxious to go out in the same ship with me?  If he wanted to keep
his money to himself; why didn't he keep close till the Sabrina was gone, and then sail by
the next vessel?"

"Perhaps he did mean it, Mr Frank, only you happened to light on him."

"No, that cannot be, for he says he has paid for his own passage."

"Then, if that's a true tale," said the other, "I'll be bound he's not done it with any good
meaning for you or me.  I shall keep both my eyes well open, or he'll be too much for me. 
And as for you, Mr Frank, oh, don't listen to him, or he'll hook all your brass as he's given
you out of your pocket again, or he'll lead you back to the drink if he can."

Frank coloured, and looked troubled, and turned the conversation to another subject.

At last the day of sailing came.  The Sabrina, taken in tow by a steam-tug, soon made her way
to Holdfast Bay, where she was to lie at anchor till Saturday morning.  Hubert and his uncle
accompanied Frank Oldfield thus far, and then returned in the steam-tug.  Before they parted,
Hubert had a long conversation with his friend in his cabin. His last words were of Mary, and
Frank's one special temptation; and they separated with a fervent grasp, and eyes brimming
with tears.  Yet in neither of their hearts was there hope.  Hubert felt that his friend had
not satisfied him that he really meant utterly and for ever to renounce strong drink; and Frank
felt that he had withheld any positive promise so to abstain, because he knew that the deep-rooted
purpose of his heart was to resume the indulgence which would be his ruin, body and soul.

And where was Juniper?  No one saw him on deck; and yet assuredly he was on board the vessel,
for Jacob had seen him come up the side.

Saturday morning, and a fine favourable wind.  Up comes the anchor--the Sabrina bends to the
breeze--away they go!  Kangaroo Island is reached and passed.  Then emerges Juniper Graves
from his cabin between decks, and smiles as he looks around him.  All is safe now.

The Sabrina had been gone ten days, when a weary, downcast-looking man entered Mr Abraham Oliphant's
office.

"Your name ain't Oliphant, is it?" he asked, doggedly.

"Yes, it is," said Hubert, whom he was addressing.

The man got up, and stared steadily at him for a minute.

"It ain't him!" he muttered to himself.

Hubert was inclined at first to be amused; but there was something in the man's manner that
checked his merriment.

"You want my uncle, perhaps," he said.

Mr Abraham Oliphant came at his nephew's summons.  The man, who had all the appearance of a
returned digger, shook his head.

"You've neither on you been to the diggings, I reckon?"

"No; we have neither of us been," said the merchant.

"Are there any of your name as has been?" asked the other.

"None; I can answer for it," was the reply.  "My sons have none of them been; and we, with
my nephew here, are all the Oliphants in this colony. No Oliphant has been to the diggings
from South Australia."

The man sighed deeply.

"Can you make anything out o' that?" he asked, handing a piece of soiled paper to Mr Oliphant.
"I can't read myself, but you can read it."

The merchant took the piece of paper and examined it.  It had once been part of an envelope,
but had been torn and rolled up to light a pipe, and one end, where it had been used, was burned.
The words left on it were all incomplete, except the names "Oliphant" and "Australia."  What
was left was as follows:--

  yes,
  Oliphant,
  delaide,
  th Australia.

Both uncle and nephew scrutinised it attentively.  At last Hubert said,--

"I can tell now who this belonged to."

"Who?" cried the man, eagerly.

"Why, to one Juniper Graves, a servant of Mr Frank Oldfield's.  He chose to take upon himself
to have his letters from England directed to the care of my uncle, and this is one of the envelopes."

"And where is he?  Can you tell me where I can find him?" cried the digger, in great excitement.

"I'm afraid you'll not find him at all, my friend," replied the merchant, "for he left the
colony in the Sabrina for England ten days ago."

The effect of this announcement on the poor man was tremendous.  He uttered a violent imprecation,
stamped furiously on the ground, while he ground his teeth together.  Then he sat down, and
covered his face with his hands in mute despair.

"I fear there has been some foul play," said Mr Oliphant to his nephew.

"Foul play!" cried the unfortunate digger, starting up furiously.  "I'll tell you what it is.
Yon rascal's been and robbed me of all as I got by my hard labour; and now he's got clean off.
But I'll follow him, and have the law of him, if I work my passage home for it."

"I've always had a suspicion that the fellow had not come honestly by his gains," said Hubert.

"And why didn't you stop him?  Why didn't you have him taken up on suspicion?" exclaimed the
other bitterly.

"I had no grounds for doing so," replied Hubert.  "He might have come honestly by his money
for anything I knew to the contrary.  There was nothing to show that he had not been successful,
as many other diggers have been."

"Successful!" cried the poor man.  "Ay, he's been successful in making a precious fool of me."

"Tell us how it happened," said Mr Oliphant.

"Why, you see, gentlemen, my mates and me had done very well; and they was for going to Melbourne
with what they'd got, but I was for stopping to get a little more.  Well, I was all alone,
and a little fidgetty like for fear of getting robbed, when one evening I sees a sandy-haired
chap near my tent as didn't look much used to hard work; so I has a bit o' talk with him. 
He seemed a greenish sort of piece, and I thought as p'raps I might just make use of him, and
keep him for company's sake. So he and I agreed to be mates; he was to do the lighter work,
and I was to do the hard digging, and keep the biggest share of what we got.  So we chummed
together; and he seemed a mighty pleasant sort of a cove for a bit.  He was always a-talking,
and had his mouth full o' big words.  I never said nothing about what I'd got afore, and he
never seemed to care to ask me.  But it were all his deepness.  One night he pulls out a pack
of cards, and says, `Let's have a game.  Only for love,' says he, when he saw me look a little
shyly at him.  `I'm not a gambler,' says he; `I never plays for money.'  So we has a game and
a pipe together, and he pulls out a little flask of spirits, and we got very cheerful.  But
I was careful not to take too much that night.  However, the rum set my tongue loose, and I
let out something about having more gold than he knowed of.  I was mighty vexed, however, next
day, when I remembered what I'd said.  But he never said a word about it, but looked werry
innocent.  A few nights arterwards we gets drinking and smoking again. Then he took a little
too much himself.  I knowed it, because next day he was axing me if I'd see'd anything of an
envelope as he'd lost.  I told him `no;' but the real fact was, he'd twisted it up to light
his pipe with, and I'd picked up the bit as he threw away, and put it in my pocket.  I didn't
think anything about it then; but next day, when he made a great fuss about it, and the day
after too, I said to myself; `I'll keep the bit of paper; maybe summat'll turn up from it one
of these days.'  So I took it out of my pocket when he were not by, and stowed it away where
I knew he couldn't find it.  But I shall weary you, gentlemen, with my long story.  Well, the
long and short of it was just this.  He managed to keep the spirit-bottle full, and got me
jolly well drunk one night; and then I've no doubt I told him all he wanted to know about my
gold, for I know no more nor the man in the moon what I said to him.  I asked him next day
what I'd been talking about; and he said I was very close, and wouldn't let out anything. 
Well, it seems there was a strong party leaving the diggings a day or so arter; but it was
kept very snug.  Jemmy Thomson--that was what my new mate called himself to me--had managed
to hear of it, and got leave to join 'em.  So, the night afore they went, he gets me into a
regular talk about the old country, and tells me all sorts of queer stories, and keeps filling
my pannikin with grog till I was so beastly drunk that I knew nothing of what had happened
till it was late the next morning.  Then I found he was off. He'd taken every nugget I'd got,
and some bank-notes too, as I'd stowed away in a safe place.  The party had started afore daybreak;
and nobody knowed which way they'd gone, for they'd got off very secret.  I was like one mad,
you may be sure, when I discovered what he'd been and done.  I took the bit of paper with me,
and managed somehow to get to Melbourne.  I tried to find him out; some only laughed at me.
I went to the police; they couldn't do nothing for me--some on 'em told me it served me right
for getting drunk.  Then I went to a minister; and he was very kind, and made all sorts of
inquiries for me.  He said he'd reason to believe as Jemmy Thomson--as the rascal called himself--was
not in Melbourne.  And then he looked at my paper.  `Call on me to- morrow,' says he.  And
so I did.  Then he says, `There's no Oliphant here as I can find out; but there's a Mr Abraham
Oliphant, a merchant, in Adelaide.  This letter's been to him; you'd better see him.'  So I've
come here overland with a party; and now I must try my hand at summat or starve, for I shall
never see my money nor the villain as stole it no more."

Mr Oliphant was truly sorry for the unfortunate man, and bade him take heart, promising to
find him employment if he was willing to stick to his work and be sober.  The man was thankful
for the offer, and worked for a few weeks, but he was still all athirst for the gold, and,
as soon as he could purchase the necessary tools, set out again for the diggings, with an earnest
caution from Mr Oliphant to keep from the drink if he would not suffer a repetition of his
loss and misery.

And thus it was that Juniper Graves had acquired his ill-gotten wealth. Having ascertained
that a party was returning to South Australia, he joined himself to them, and got safe off
with his stolen gold.  As Jacob Poole had surmised, he had made up the packet of notes with
the nuggets, that, should he happen to fall in with his master, he might be able to pacify
him, and so prepare the way for regaining his favour and his own hold upon him.  He felt quite
sure, from what he knew of Frank Oldfield's generous character, that he never would take more
than the fifty pounds, and he was aware that unless he made unhesitating restitution of that
sum, he was in danger of losing all, and of being thrown into prison.  And now he was anxious
to leave the colony as soon as possible, that he might put the sea between himself and the
man he had robbed; and, having ascertained that Frank Oldfield and Jacob Poole were returning
to England in the Sabrina, he took his passage in the same vessel, partly with the view of
getting his young master once more into his power, and partly in the hope of finding an opportunity
of wreaking his vengeance on Jacob Poole.  Therefore he was determined to leave no stone unturned
to regain his influence over Frank, for his object was to use him for his own purposes both
during and after the voyage.  To this end his first great aim would be to cause, if possible,
an estrangement between Jacob and his master.  He also hoped to do his rival--as he considered
Jacob--some injury of a serious kind, without exposing himself to detection.  So far he had
succeeded.  All had prospered to his utmost wishes; and, as the shores of Kangaroo Island faded
from the view of the voyagers, he hugged himself in secret and said,--

"Bravo, Juniper!--bravo!  You've managed it to a T.  Ah, Mr Jacob Poole!  I'll make your master's
cabin too hot to hold you afore any of us is a month older."

CHAPTER TWENTY.

A MAN OVERBOARD.

And now we bid farewell to Australia, and follow the Sabrina in her homeward voyage.  It was
soon evident that there was no love lost between Captain Merryweather and Juniper Graves, nor
between that cunning gentleman and honest, straightforward Jacob.  With Frank, however, it
was different.  Jacob soon found that his place was often taken by Juniper, and that himself
was gradually losing his old place in his master's confidence and good graces: Frank would
also frequently spend a long time in Juniper's cabin between decks, from which he returned
in a state of great hilarity.

"Jacob," said the captain to him one day, "I can't quite make it out.  I thought your master
was an abstainer."

Jacob shook his head.

"I thought so too, captain; but I've found myself grievously mistaken. He's no mind to give
up the drink, you may be sure.  He's only teetotal when he cannot get it."

"I'm pretty sure," said the other, "that he takes it now.  That fellow Juniper Graves is no
fit companion for him."

"Ah, captain, that man's been his ruin in Australia; and he'll be his ruin when he gets back
to the old country, if he doesn't shake him off. But I fear he'll ne'er do that.  The old lad
hasna a fitter tool in all the world nor yon chap.  He'll not stick at anything.  He's tried
robbery and murder, and he'll not be over nice about squeezing all he can out of the poor young
mayster."

Jacob then related to Captain Merryweather all he knew of Juniper Graves' proceedings, and
both he and the captain agreed together to watch him, and do their utmost to keep poor Frank
out of his clutches.

"I don't care so much about myself," said Jacob; "though I'm quite sure he'd knock me overboard
any day, if he'd the chance of doing it without being seen, for he hates me worse nor poison.
But I'm grieved to the heart to see him winding hisself round Mayster Frank, who's so kind
and so warm-hearted and so free.  I cannot forget how he risked his life to save mine when
we was coming out, as you know, captain; and I'd give my own life for him now, if I could only
get him clear of yon cunning rascal as is leading him blindfold to hell."

"I've no doubt," said the other, "that this man has brought spirits on board, and that he and
Mr Oldfield drink in his cabin together."

"Yes," replied Jacob; "and you may be quite sure as he'll hook all the brass out of the young
mayster afore the voyage is over."

It was just as Jacob and the captain surmised.  Juniper Graves had brought a good stock of
brandy and rum on board with him, and took care that Frank Oldfield should pay handsomely for
what he was willing, after much solicitation, to part with.  Let us look in upon them, as they
sit together by Juniper's berth.  The time is midnight.  Frank has stolen in while the captain
has been sleeping, for he fears being seen going there by the honest sailor.  There is a curtain
hung up before the door to hide the light.  A small candle lamp hung on gymbals is fixed to
the woodwork, and throws a scanty gleam on the two figures which are engaged in earnest play.
Yet how different are these two, spite of their companionship in evil!  Frank, still beautiful
in the refined cast of features, out of which intemperance has not yet been able to sear the
traces of gentle blood and early culture; bright too and graceful in the masses of rich chestnut
hair which adorn a forehead high and noble, yet now, alas! often crossed by lines of weary,
premature care.  Juniper, a compound of cat, fox, monkey, wolf--every feature of his contemptible
face instinct with the greediest, most self-satisfied cunning.  How could two such, so widely
different in natural character, be yet so agreed?  Alas! what will not the love of the drink,
the slavery of the drink, the tyranny of the drink accomplish?  Each holds his cards characteristically.
Frank so carelessly that his adversary can see them; Juniper grasping and shading his with
jealous vigilance, lest a single glimpse of them should be visible to his opponent.  A large
spirit-flask stands under the berth close by Juniper's hand, and a glass is within the reach
of each.  They play on, for a while, in silence. Frank's money is clearly slipping through
his fingers, though he is allowed now and then to win, especially when he gets at all restive
or suspicious.

"There, Juniper," says Frank at last, and in no steady voice, "I declare you'll clean me out
before long.  I do believe you've come on board for the sake of squeezing me dry, as Jacob says."

"As Jacob says!" cries the other, with affected indignation and astonishment.  "I wish, sir,
that conceited young puppy had never set foot on this vessel.  What does he know of the sort
of aversions as are suited to a gentleman of your birth and retrospects?"

"Juniper," replies the other, "I think the `aversions,' as you call them, belong to you and
not to me, if I may judge by your aversion for poor Jacob; and as for `retrospects,' I think
the less I say about them the better."

"Well, sir, I don't know," replies Juniper, huffily; "you may amuse yourself; sir, with my
humble efforts at a superior style of soliloquy; but I'm sure you're doing me injustice, and
allowing yourself to be bamboozled, if you let yourself be talked over by that canting hypocrite."

"Steady--steady, my boy!" cries Frank; "you're half-seas over, Juniper, or you could not say
so.  Come, hand us the brandy.  We'll let Jacob alone, and drink his health, and the health
of all good lads and lasses."

"As you please, sir," says Juniper, sulkily.

The next morning, when Frank Oldfield appeared on deck, his face and whole appearance bore
the unmistakable marks of last night's excess. His very breath also told the same miserable
tale.  As for Juniper, though he had drunk more cautiously, yet he did not show himself outside
his cabin till the afternoon.  The captain had his eye upon him, and could not help remarking
to himself what a look of deadly malice and venomous baseness pervaded every feature of the
villain's face.

"He's up to some mischief more than common, I'll be bound," he said to himself.  "I'll keep
a sharp look-out for you, my friend."

A short time after, and Juniper had disappeared, nor did he emerge from his retreat till the
evening.  He was then in high spirits, laughing and chatting with the sailors, and every now
and then glancing up at Jacob, who was walking up and down the poop with Captain Merryweather.
At last, just as Jacob was descending to the main-deck, and had his foot on the topmost step
of the ladder, the vessel lying over under a breeze on the quarter, Juniper suddenly sprang
up the steps in a state of great excitement, shouting out, "A whale!--a whale!"  Every one
but the captain turned suddenly round in the direction to which Juniper was pointing, Jacob
among the number, so that he hung partly over the water.

"Where?" cried several voices.

"There!" he exclaimed, suddenly stumbling with his whole might against Jacob, so as very nearly
to hurl him into the sea.  Indeed, had not the captain, who was on the watch, sprung forward
and caught hold of him, he must have inevitably gone overboard.

"You scoundrel!" shouted the captain, seizing Juniper by the collar, and sending him spinning
down the ladder on to the deck below, where he lay half stunned for a few moments.

"I'm up to your tricks, my man," he added, as Juniper limped off to his cabin, vowing vengeance.

"What's amiss, captain?" asked Frank, in great astonishment.  "What's poor Juniper been doing?
No great harm in fancying he saw a whale, even supposing he was mistaken."

"Mr Oldfield," said the captain, sorrowfully, "you don't know that fellow.  If ever there was
a serpent in a human body, there's one in that man of yours.  Bear with me, my dear sir, if
I offer you an earnest word or two of caution.  I can see that you are not the man you were
when we crossed the seas together before.  We had a very happy voyage then, and you remember
how strong and settled you were on the subject of total abstinence.  Is it so now?  Ah! don't
let that wretched fellow take all that's good and noble out of you.  He don't care a straw
for you nor for any one but himself; I'm quite certain.  He has mischief in his eye, and there's
a black heart under that smooth tongue--if I know anything of what a rogue's like, and I've
boarded many that have been sailing under false colours in my day.  You must excuse my speaking
so warmly and plainly, Mr Oldfield; but I really cannot bear to see you running on to the reefs
without giving you a word of warning."

"Thank you--thank you, captain," said Frank.  "I know you mean kindly, but I still think you're
hard upon Juniper.  I believe he's a faithful fellow, with all his faults; and he isn't without
them, I'll allow.  But he's sincerely attached to me, I believe, and that makes up for a good
deal."

"Attached to you, Mr Oldfield! don't think it!  He's only making a tool of you--he'll just
get all he can out of you, and then he'll scuttle you, and leave you to sink."

"I can't think it, I cannot indeed," was Frank's reply; "there's an old proverb about giving
a dog a bad name.  He's no friend of yours, I know, nor of Jacob Poole's either, and I'm sorry
for it."

"And is he really acting a friend's part by you, Mr Oldfield?" asked the other.  Frank coloured,
and evaded the question.

"At any rate, Jacob has no real cause to be at such daggers-drawn with him," he said.

"Do you think not?  Are you aware that he was trying to knock Jacob overboard only a few minutes
ago, and that he attempted his life at the diggings?"

"Oh, captain, it's all fancy; you're mistaken, both of you.  I'm sure you're mistaken.  Juniper's
not the sort of fellow--he hasn't it in him--he hasn't the pluck to commit murder, even if
he had the will to do it."

"Ah, Mr Oldfield," cried the captain, "I say again, beware of him; you don't know him; if you'd
seen the spite in his eye that I've seen you wouldn't talk so.  He has malice enough in him
to take away life, if he felt sure he could do it without detection and punishment.  And is
he not, at this very moment, stealing away from you the life of body and soul?  Don't be offended,
pray, Mr Oldfield; but I say again, I can't bear to see you drifting on to the rocks, and not
lend a helping hand to keep you off."

"I'm not offended, my kind friend," said Frank sorrowfully; "you tell the truth, I fear, when
you say I'm drifting on to the rocks; and yet I don't mean to go on as I'm doing now, I assure
you--when I touch land again I'm going to turn over a new leaf altogether, and paste it down
over the old ones, so that I shall make quite a fresh start."

"And do you think," asked the other, "that this fellow will let you keep your good resolutions,
even if you had the wish to do so?"

"Oh yes," replied Frank, carelessly; "I've told Master Juniper that his reign will only last
on board ship; I'm to be master, and we're both to say `good-bye' to the drink when once we
set foot on shore, and he's quite agreeable."

"Of course he is," said the captain; "he'll be willing to promise anything for the future,
if you'll only let him keep his hold on you now.  Well, sir, I've warned you, and I hope you
may lay it to heart."

"I will, my good friend; indeed I will," was the reply.  That evening Frank kept himself out
of Juniper's reach, much to the disgust and annoyance of that gentleman, who began to dread
lest he had over-reached himself; and set his old master against him.  It was not so, however.
Juniper had become necessary to Frank, and a day or two found them as fast friends as ever.

And now the Sabrina had accomplished half her homeward course, and many a heart on board rejoiced
in the hope of a speedy and prosperous completion of the voyage.

It was a chilly and boisterous afternoon, the clouds were hurrying in leaden-coloured layers
along the sky, the sea was all in a foam, and patches of whitish upper clouds, beneath which
the lower drift was scudding, threw a lurid light over the wide expanse of ocean.  The wind,
which had hitherto been favourable, now veered, and obliged them to tack.  The captain, at
this juncture, was on the poop, with Frank Oldfield by him.

"I haven't seen Mr Juniper Graves to-day," said the former.

"To tell you the truth," answered Frank, "he and I have been having a few words together."

"I'm not sorry for it," remarked the captain drily; "nothing serious, however, I hope."

"Nothing very, perhaps; but the matter's simply this: I've been fool enough to play cards with
him for rather high stakes lately, and I fancy that I've detected my man peeping over my cards,
and using a little sleight of hand in his shuffling too."

"I'll be bound he has," remarked the other.

"If he'd been a poor man," added Frank, "I could have excused it; but the fellow's got a whole
fortune in nuggets and notes stowed about him. He's a sort of walking `Crocus,' as he told
me once, when he wasn't over sober,--meaning `Croesus,' of course."

"And so you've given him a little of your mind, I suppose."

"Yes; and it's wounded my gentleman's dignity considerably; so there he is below, hugging his
gold, and comforting himself in his own way, which isn't much in your line or Jacob's, captain,
and I wish it wasn't in mine."

"In other words," said Captain Merryweather, "he's pretty nearly drunk by this time."

"You're somewhere about right," was the reply.  Immediately after this short dialogue the captain
proceeded to give the orders for tacking in a stentorian voice, as the wind was high.

"Ready, ho! ready!" he cried.  All were standing ready at their posts. Then the word was given
to the man at the wheel.

"Helm's a-lee!" roared the captain.  There was rattling of chains, flapping of canvas, and
shuffling of feet.

"Mainsail h-a-u-aul!" bellowed the captain in a prolonged shout.  Round went the great sail
under the swift and strong pulls of willing hands.

"Let go, and h-a-u-aul!" once more roared out the captain in a voice of thunder.

It was just at this moment, when all was apparent confusion, when ropes were rattling, feet
stamping, sails quivering, that Juniper Graves emerged from his cabin on to the main-deck,
his head bare, and his sandy hair flying out wildly into the breeze.  His eyes were strained
and bloodshot, and his whole appearance was that of a person in an agony of terror.  Aroused
from his drunken sleep by the noise overhead, and terrified to find the vessel heeling over
to the other side, he imagined, in his drunken bewilderment, that the ship had struck, and
that himself and his gold were in danger of perishing with her.  Filled with frenzy at this
idea, he rushed out upon deck, where the general apparent confusion confirmed his fears; then
he sprung upon the bulwarks, gazed around him in utter dismay at the crew in busy motion about
him, tottered on his insecure standing-ground, caught at a rope to save himself; missed it,
and then, with a terrible shriek of horror and despair, fell headlong overboard into the boiling
waters.

"Save him! oh, save him!" cried Frank Oldfield imploringly.  "Where is he?  Let me go, let
me go," he screamed, for he was about to plunge overboard, and the captain was holding him
back with his powerful grasp.

"It's no use, Mr Oldfield; it'll only be two lives instead of one."

"Oh, yes, yes," besought Frank; "put the ship about--lie-to--throw over a hen-coop, a life-buoy,
for mercy's sake--the poor wretch isn't fit to die," and he still struggled to free himself.

"Listen to reason, sir," said the captain.  "We can do nothing; the ship's running nine knots,
and no one knows where to look for him; nothing can save him, miserable man; he's sunk no doubt,
at once, and all the faster for having his gold about him."

"Can nothing be done?" cried Frank, beseechingly.

"Nothing, I assure you," replied the other; "there's not a trace of him to be seen, is there,
Mr Walters?"  The first mate shook his head. "We're far enough off now from the spot where
he fell in.  It's in mercy to you, sir, that he's been taken away."

Frank sank upon a seat, and buried his face in his hands, sobbing bitterly.

Yes; the tempter was gone, gone to his account--suddenly cut off in the midst of his sins,
hurried away in righteous retribution by the very death himself had planned for Jacob Poole.
Yes; the tempter was gone, and the tempted still remained.  Would he take home to his heart
the lesson and warning God had thus sent him?  The tempter was gone, but, alas! the temptation
was not gone.  Frank had even now in his cabin several flasks of that drink which had already
borne such miserable fruits for himself and the guilty wretch just hurried into the presence
of his offended God.  He had bought the spirits from Juniper at an exorbitant price, but would
he use them now, after what had happened? The night after Juniper's awful death he sat in his
cabin weeping. Thoughts of home, of mother, father, Mary, crowded in upon his heart. The days
that once were, when he would have joined with real willingness and hearty earnestness the
band of abstainers, as he sat in all boyish sincerity at Mr Bernard Oliphant's table, eager
to make the trial and bear the cross, were fresh upon his memory now.  And all the bitter past,
with its shameful, degrading, sinful records, gathered its thick shadows round his soul.  What
should he do?  He sank upon his knees and prayed--prayed to be forgiven, prayed that he might
do better--and then he rose, and was in part comforted.  And now, what should he do with the
spirits which were still in his possession?  He took them out and ranged the flasks on his
berth.  His scuttle stood open.  One minute and he could have thrown them all into the sea.
Conscience said, "Do it, and do it at once."  But another voice whispered, "Pity to waste so
much good stuff; drink these out, but only a moderate quantity at a time, and then you can
renounce the drink for ever."  He listened to the second voice, and conscience sighed itself
to sleep.

Alas! alas! what fiend like the fiend of drink?  It can steal away every good resolution, drown
the voice of conscience, and make a man cheat himself into the belief that the indulgence of
to-day is a warrant and guarantee for the abstinence of to-morrow.  Frank was satisfied; he
felt sure that it would be wiser to wean himself gradually from his drinking habits; he would
use the strictest moderation with his present little stock, and then he should more readily
forsake it altogether when this was gone.  And so he continued to drink, but more and more
sparingly, as he himself supposed, because he was really training himself to a gradual surrender
of the drink, but in reality because he dreaded to be left altogether without it.  And so the
taste was kept up during the remainder of the voyage, and Frank Oldfield landed on the shores
of his native country with the thirst strong upon him.

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

HOMELESS AND HEARTLESS.

The Sabrina was bound for Liverpool, and entered that port some two years after the time when
she left it with Hubert Oliphant and Frank Oldfield as fellow-passengers.  Alas! how different
were the feelings of the latter now, from those with which he trod the deck of that vessel
when preparing for his temporary exile.  Then, though sad, he was full of hope; now he was
both heartless and hopeless; he knew he was the bond-slave of the drink, and, whatever he might
say to others, he felt in his own heart that it was useless any longer to try and cheat himself
with the transparent phantom of a lie.  Yet he could not for shame acknowledge thus much to
others, nor would he allow his conscience to state it deliberately to himself; he still clung
to something, which was yet neither conviction nor hope, that he might even now master his
besetting sin.  Alas! he desired the good end, but he would not use the only means to that
good end; and so, when he landed on the soil of the old country again, it was with the settled
determination, (though he would not have believed his own handwriting, had he put down that
determination on paper) not to give up the drinking of intoxicating liquors at present.  How
then should he face his parents and Mary Oliphant?  He could not face them at all as yet. 
He could not at once make up his mind what to do.  Happily for him, Juniper Graves had been
cut off before he had been able to effect a complete spoliation of his master, so that Frank
had still rather more than two hundred pounds in his possession.  While this money lasted,
he resolved to stave off the evil day of taking any decided step.  He would not write to his
mother or Mary till he had quite made up his mind what course he was intending to pursue. 
He was also well aware that the family of Bernard Oliphant could give him no welcome with his
present habits of excess still upon him.  So, on the day of reaching Liverpool, he said to
Jacob Poole,--

"Well, Jacob, are you quite tired of my service, or will you stay by me a little longer?  I've
no right or wish to stand in your way, and if you would like to make another voyage with Captain
Merryweather, or can find any other situation that will suit you better than mine, I would
not have you consider yourself bound to me at all."

"Mayster Frank," was Jacob's reply, "I'm not going to leave you now, unless you wish to part
with me yourself.  I don't feel happy in leaving you to go by yourself nobody knows where."

"Really, Jacob, you make a capital nurse," said the other, laughing; "you seem to be quite
convinced that I'm not to be trusted to run alone."

"And it's true, sir," replied Jacob, seriously; "you need looking after, and I mustn't be letting
you get into the hands of any of those chaps as'll hook all as you have out o' you in no time--that
is, if you're going to stay by yourself in this big town."

"Why, yes, Jacob; I shall not go down to my father's at once.  I don't seem as if I could go.
I'd better wait a little bit.  I seem out of trim, and out of sorts altogether."

"You must please yourself," replied Jacob; "and you must know best, Mayster Frank, what you're
bound to do.  But, if you'd take my advice, you'd go home at once, afore anything worse happens."

"No, Jacob, I cannot yet, and so that's settled.  Now we must look-out for lodgings; they mustn't
be expensive ones, else the brass, as you call it, won't hold out, and you can wait on me,
and keep me in order, you know.  But, by the way, I was forgetting that you have friends of
your own to look after.  Don't let anything I've been saying prevent your going to them, and
doing what's right by them.  I shall be quite willing to come into any arrangement you may
like to make.  Don't consider yourself bound to me, Jacob, but just do whatever you feel to
be your duty."

"You're very kind, Mayster Frank: it's just this way with me.  I should like to go and see
arter them as I left behind when I sailed for Australia, and see how they're coming on.  But
it don't matter for a week or so, for they're not looking for me.  I'll see you settled first
properly, Mayster Frank, if you mean to settle here for a bit, and then I'll just take a run
over yonder for a few days, and come back to you again, and what I do afterwards'll depend
on how I find things yonder."

And thus it was finally settled.  Frank took quiet lodgings in a respectable by-street, in
the house of an aged widow, who was delighted with his cheerful open manners, and did her best
to make him and Jacob comfortable.  But the time hung heavily on the hands of both master and
man.  Frank purposed daily writing home, and yet each to-morrow found him more reluctant to
do so than the day before.  Jacob loitered about the town and docks when his master did not
want him, and got exceedingly weary of his idleness.

"Eh, ma'am," he said one day to their landlady, "my arms fair ache with hanging down and doing
nothing."

Thus things went on for about a fortnight, when one evening at tea-time Frank failed to make
his appearance.  Seven o'clock, then nine and ten, but no master came to remove poor Jacob's
misgivings.  At last, about midnight, a stumbling against the door and a violent knock made
his heart die within him.

"Who's there?" he cried, before opening the door.

"Me, old king of trumps!" cried a voice which he knew to be Frank's. The minute after, the
wretched young man staggered in almost helpless. Next day was a season of bitter sorrow, self-reproach,
and remorse; but, alas! not to be followed by any real amendment, for Frank was now seldom
home till late, though he was never again grossly intoxicated.  But a shadow had now settled
habitually on his once bright and open countenance, which Jacob could not quite understand,
and which was almost more sad to him than the degrading flush and vacant stare produced by
excess in drink.  Something dreadful was amiss, he was sure, but he could not tell, and hardly
dare conjecture what it might be. Very, very loth then was he to go, when the time came for
his leaving his master entirely to his own devices.  He would gladly have put off his journey,
but Frank would not hear of it, and was evidently annoyed when Jacob urged the matter.  So
it was finally settled that he should be away for a few days, not exceeding a fortnight.  The
night but one before his intended departure, Jacob was pleased to find that his master did
not leave home, but took his tea at his lodgings, a very unusual thing of late.  After tea
he made Jacob come and sit with him, and they had a long talk over Australian matters, and
the events of their late voyage.  At last Frank said,--

"Jacob, I don't wish to pry into your concerns, or to ask questions which you may not like
to answer.  I hope, however, that you will not scruple to ask my advice on any matter in which
I can be of service to you."

"Well, thank you, sir," replied Jacob, with a sort of embarrassment in his manner, "you're
very kind, but I've reasons just now why I'd like to say as little as possible about myself
to any one.  If I find them as I'm going to seek, I may have much to say; but maybe I may find
things so as'll make it better I should forget as ever I'd any belonging me."

"Just so," said his master; "you must be the best judge of your own matters, and I would not
intrude on your private concerns for a moment; only I should just like to know what you mean
to do with your bag of nuggets; you must be careful where you put it.  It would be hardly wise
to carry it about with you, if you don't mean to turn it into money at present."

Jacob was troubled at the question, yet he could hardly tell why; he answered, however,--

"Well, Mayster Frank, I'm not thinking of meddling with my nuggets at present."

"Hadn't you better then leave them with me till you return?" asked Frank.

Poor Jacob was sorely puzzled what to reply.  He looked down, and there was an awkward pause.
At last he said,--

"I cannot rightly tell what'll be the best to do.  Mayster Oldfield, you mustn't be offended,
but I'd better be plain and outspoken.  You'd not mean to wrong me of a farthing, I know; but
you must be well aware you're not always your own mayster.  So if you cannot keep your own
brass safe, I can hardly think it wise to trust you to take charge of mine.  I don't wish to
vex you, Mayster Frank, but that's just the honest truth."

"Quite right, Jacob, quite right," said his master, laughing; "you don't vex me at all.  I
should do just the same, if I were in your place. Suppose, then, you give your bag in charge
to our landlady the morning you start; that'll be soon enough, for, poor soul, she'll be glad,
I daresay, not to have charge of other folk's treasure a day longer than necessary; and I'll
be a witness that you give it into her charge."

"Thank you, mayster," said Jacob, greatly relieved; "that's good advice, and I'll follow it."

The next evening, the last before Jacob's expedition, Frank again remained at home.  He had
been out all the morning.  Jacob looked anxiously at him when he returned.  He clearly had
not been drinking--at any rate immoderately--yet there was something in his look which Jacob
could not fathom, and if ever Frank met his servant's eye, his own immediately fell.

"I'm not satisfied as all's right," said Jacob to himself, "and yet I cannot tell what's amiss."

That night his sleep was restless and disturbed.  Once he fancied that his door was opened,
and that his master appeared and drew back again. Their rooms were on the opposite sides of
the same landing.  Again he fancied, or dreamt, that a hand passed under his pillow, where
he kept his nuggets.  It was quite dark--he started up and felt for the bag; it was there quite
safe, and he laid him down again.  But yet again he seemed to feel a hand behind his pillow.

"I must have been dreaming," he muttered to himself; "the bag's right."

Yes, there it was all right when he rose in the morning.  He was to start by an early train,
so, hastily dressing himself, and having breakfasted, he came to say farewell to his master.

"Oh, Mayster Frank," he said, grasping the other's outstretched hand, "I'm heavy at the heart
at leaving you.  I cannot tell why, but there's a weight like lead upon me.  Oh, dear Mayster
Frank, for my sake, for your own sake, for the sake of all them as loves you, will you promise
me to keep off the drink, leastways till I come back?  Will you pray the Lord to help you,
Mayster Frank?  He will help you, if you'll pray honestly."

What was it that affected his unhappy master so powerfully?  Frank's whole frame shook with
emotion.  He stared at Jacob with a gaze of mingled remorse and agony such as touched the other
to the quick.

"Jacob," gasped his master, at last, "I cannot let you go thus--you don't know--I've--I've--"
He paused for a moment, and tears and sobs burst from him.  Then he sat down, and bowed his
head on his knees, clasping his hands tightly together.  Then an unnatural calmness followed;
he muttered something to himself, and then said, in a tone of affected indifference and gaiety,--

"There, it don't matter; the best of friends must part.  You'll be back before so very long,
and I'll try and be a good boy meanwhile.

"Just call up the landlady, Jacob, and we can see her take charge of your nuggets."

Jacob did as his master bade him.

"There, Mrs Jones," he said, taking the bag hastily from Jacob's hands; "this bag of nuggets
belongs to my man.  You see it contains gold," he added, opening the mouth of the bag, and
taking out a small nugget; "there," tying it up with the string which he had removed from it,
"he'll know where to look for them when he comes back.  We've the fullest confidence, Mrs Jones,
that they will be safe in your keeping."

"Indeed, sir," said the landlady, curtseying, "I'd rather you should keep them."

"No, no, Mrs Jones; Jacob knows very well that you're to be trusted, but that I'm not."

"Oh, sir!" exclaimed Mrs Jones; but she was at a loss what farther to say, for she felt that
poor Frank spoke only the sober truth.  At last she said,--

"Well, sir, I'll take charge of them, as you both seem to wish it, and I'll take care that
no one sees where I put them."

And so Jacob and his master parted.

Ten days passed by, and then Jacob, downcast and weary, made his way to the lodgings.  His
heart died within him at the expression of the landlady's face when she had opened the door
to him, and found that he was alone.

"Where's Mr Oldfield?" he gasped.

"That's just what I was going to ask you, Mr Poole."

"What! you don't mean to say he's left your house?"

"He has indeed," was the reply.  "I've seen nothing of him since the day after you left."

"Seen nothing of him!" exclaimed Jacob in complete bewilderment; "but has he sent you no message--no
letter?"

"No, Mr Poole, he's neither sent nor written.  He paid me all he owed me up to the last night
he slept here, and that's all I know."

"And has he left no message, nothing to tell one where he's gone?" asked Jacob.

"Nothing," she said, "unless this letter's from him--it came a few days ago."

Jacob seized it, and tore it open.  When he had read a few lines he let it drop upon the floor,
and stood gazing at it as though some strange fascination glared out from it upon him.  Then
he took it up again, read it deliberately through, laid it on the table, and sitting down,
burst into an agony of weeping.  The letter was as follows:--

  "DEAR JACOB,--I must write to you, though I hardly can hold my pen,
  and every letter, as I write, seems like blood wrung out from my
  heart.  Well, it's no use; you shall have the naked truth at once.  I
  have robbed you, Jacob, artfully, basely, deliberately, cruelly robbed
  you, and all through the cursed drink.  I hate myself for it as the
  vilest wretch upon earth.  And yet I have no excuse to make.  I have
  been gambling with a wretched set of sharpers, who got hold of me when
  I was drunk.  They cleaned me out of every penny.  I was ruined--I was
  desperate--I thought if I could get hold of your nuggets I could turn
  them into money, win back what I had lost, and repay you with
  interest.  I got some lead, melted it in a shovel, (I need not tell
  you where I did this; it was in no good place, you may be sure).  I
  made the lead into the shape of nuggets.  The night but one before you
  left I tried to find out where you kept your bag; you were restless
  and clutched at your pillow.  I knew then that it was there.  I got
  another leather bag and filled it with the leaden nuggets I had made.
  These I slipped behind your pillow, and took away the real ones, the
  night before you left; you felt for them, and fancied you had them
  safe.  When I had got out the gold, I crouched down in the dark till
  you were fast asleep again.  Then I drew out the bag very carefully
  from behind your head, and changed it for your own bag, having first
  filled your own bag with the leaden nuggets and one or two little bits
  of gold at the top, so that you had your own bag when you woke in the
  morning, but I had your gold in the other bag.  There, you know all
  now, you can understand all the rest.  I sold your nuggets--I spent
  part of the money in drink--I played again--I've lost all--I shall
  never be able to repay you--I dare not look you in the face--I dare
  not look my father and mother in the face--I dare not look--it's no
  matter.  You are an honest fellow, Jacob, and will get on, spite of my
  villainy.  If you ever marry and have children, make them total
  abstainers, if you would keep them safe in body and soul.  As for
  myself, I cannot mend--I'm past it--I've been cheating myself with the
  belief that I meant to mend, but I never did.  I see it now.  There,
  Jacob, I don't ask you to forgive me, but I do ask one thing--grant it
  me for the love you once had to me--it is this: wait a month, I shall
  be out of the way by that time, and then post the enclosed letter to
  my poor mother.  I have told her how I have robbed you.  My father
  will repay you.  Tell him where he can find you.  I shall soon be out
  of everybody's reach.  And now all I have got to ask you is just to
  wipe me out of your thoughts altogether, and to forget that there ever
  was such a person as your guilty, miserable, degraded master."

"Oh, Mr Poole," said his landlady, compassionately, when he had begun to recover from the first
vehemence of his grief, "I fear there's something dreadfully wrong."

Jacob shook his head.

"All lost--all ruined," he replied.  Yet even now his heart yearned towards his miserable master.
He would not expose him to Mrs Jones; she at least should know nothing of his own loss.

"Mrs Jones," he said, holding out his hand, "I must say good-bye.  I fear my poor master's
got into very bad hands.  I don't rightly know what's become of him; but where there's life
there's hope, and I trust he isn't past that.  If you and I meet again, may it be a happier
meeting.  Be so good as to hand me my--my--bag I left in your charge," he added, with quivering
voice.

"I'm so sorry," said the good woman, when she had fetched the bag.  "I wish I could do anything
to comfort you.  I'm sure I'm truly sorry for the poor young gentleman.  It's a thousand pities
he's thrown himself away, for a nicer or freer-spoken gentleman never was, when he was in his
proper senses.  There, Mr Poole, there's your bag.  You see it's just as you gave it me.  No
one has seen it or touched it but myself."

"Thank you, Mrs Jones.  It's all right; farewell, and the Lord be with us both."

He turned from the door utterly broken down in spirit.  Whither should he go?  What should
he do?  Should he really abandon his master to his fate?  He could not.  Should he delay posting
the letter?  No; and yet he felt a difficulty about it; for Frank had stated in his letter
to himself that he had told his mother of the robbery, and that Jacob must be repaid his loss.
But who was to say what was the worth of the nuggets?  He had never ascertained their value.
He felt that he could not face his master's father; that he could not himself put a value upon
what he had lost.  His master had saved his life, and he would set that against the pilfered
gold, and would forgive what had been done against himself.  So having ascertained that it
was only too true that his bag contained but two or three little pieces of the precious metal,
he cast the rest of its contents into the sea, and determined to start afresh in life, as if
the sorrowful part of his past history never had been.  But first he posted Frank's letter,
with one of his own, in which he stated where he had lodged in Liverpool, that so his master's
parents might have every opportunity of endeavouring to trace their unhappy son.  His own letter
was as follows:--

  "MADAM,--Mr Frank Oldfield, your son, has bid me send you the letter
  from him which comes with this.  Mr Frank is my master.  You have no
  doubt heard him say something in his letters from Australia about
  Jacob Poole.  Well, I am Jacob Poole.  And we came to England
  together, my master and me; and my master has took, I am sorry to say
  it, to drinking again since he came back.  I wanted him to go home at
  once, but he has kept putting it off, and he has got into the hands of
  some gamblers as has stripped him of all his brass; and he has taken,
  too, some nuggets of mine, which I got at the diggings, but he didn't
  mean to keep them, only to borrow them, and pay me back.  But, poor
  young gentleman, he has been quite ruinated by these cheating chaps as
  has got hold of him.  So I don't want anybody to think anything more
  about me or my nuggets--I should not like any fuss to be made about
  them--I had rather the whole thing was kept snug.  I shall go and get
  work somewhere or other; and, thank the Lord for it, I am young and
  strong.  So, dear madam, don't think any more about me or my nuggets;
  for Mr Frank saved my life when he might have lost his own, so he is
  welcome to the nuggets, and more into the bargain.  I am sorry that
  Mr Frank has gone off; so I cannot tell you where to find him.  I
  have tried, but it isn't any use.  We--that is, my master and me--was
  lodging with Mrs Jones, as I've written at the top of the letter.  I
  can tell you no more about where to find him.  So no more at present
  from your very humble servant, JACOB POOLE."

  "Mr Frank has written to me not to post his letter for a month, but I
  don't think it is right to keep it from you, so I send it at once."

Such was Jacob's letter, when cleared of mistakes in spelling and expression.

Frank's letter to his mother was in these words:--

  "DEAREST MOTHER,--How shall I write to you!  What shall I say to you?
  I feel as if my pen scorched my fingers, and I could not hold it.  I
  feel as though this very paper I am writing on would carry on it the
  blush of burning shame that covers me.  Darling mother, how shall I
  tell you what I am?  And yet I must tell you; I must lift the veil
  once for all, and then it shall drop for ever on your miserable son.
  I am in England now.  I do not know where I shall be when you receive
  this.  I went out to Australia, as you know, hoping to become a sober,
  steady man.  I am returned to England a confirmed drunkard, without
  hope, ay, even without the wish to break off from my sin.  I cannot
  look you or my father in the face as I am now.  I never could look
  Mary in the face again.  I shall never write or breathe her name
  again.  I have no one to blame but myself.  I have no strength left to
  fight against my sin.  I am as weak before the drink as a little
  child, and weaker.  I could pray, but it's no use praying; for I have
  prayed often, and now I know that I never really desired what I prayed
  for.  I dare not face the prospect of entirely renouncing strong
  drink.  I once dreamed that I could, but it was only a dream; at
  least, since I first began habitually to exceed.  But can I go on and
  tell you what my love for the drink has led me to?  I must, for I want
  you or my dear father to do one thing for me, the last I shall ever
  ask.  Oh, don't cast me utterly out of your heart when you hear it,
  but I must tell it.  I have robbed my poor faithful servant, Jacob
  Poole, of his nuggets, which he got by his own hard labour.  I
  secretly took them from him, and spent what they fetched in drink and
  gaming.  I meant to win and pay him back, but I might have known I
  never could.  Yes, I robbed the poor young man who nursed me, worked
  for me, prayed for me, remonstrated with me, bore with me.  I robbed
  him when his back was turned.  Oh, what a vile wretch the drink has
  made me!  Can you have any love for me after reading this?  Oh, if you
  have, I want you or my father to repay Jacob for his nuggets which I
  stole.  He's as honest as the day.  You may trust him to put no more
  than a fair value on them.  One more request I have to make, darling
  mother.  Oh,--deal kindly by her--I said I would never write her
  name again, and I will not.  I dare not write to her, it would do no
  good.  Tell her that I'm lost to her for ever; tell her to forget me.
  And do you forget me too, dearest mother.  I could be nothing but a
  thorn, a shame, a burden in my old home.  I will not tell you where I
  am, nor where I shall be; it is better not.  Forget me if you can, and
  think of me as dead.  I am so for all better purposes; for everything
  good or noble has died out of me.  The drink has done it.  Your
  hopeless son, FRANK OLDFIELD."

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

A MISERABLE DEATH.

Three days after Jacob Poole had posted his letter and its enclosure, a cab drove up to Mrs
Jones's door.  In it were Sir Thomas and Lady Oldfield.  No one who saw them could doubt of
the bitter sorrow that had stamped its mark upon their noble features.

"Are you Mrs Jones, my poor--poor son's landlady?" asked Lady Oldfield, when they were seated
in the parlour.  She could add no more for weeping.

"Yes, ma'am," was the reply.  "I'm sure I'm very sorry, ma'am, very indeed; for Mr Oldfield
was a most kind, free-spoken gentleman; and if he'd only--only--"

"I understand you," said the poor sorrowing mother.

"And Jacob Poole; what has become of him?" asked Sir Thomas.

"I'm sure, sir, I don't know.  All I can tell is, that he's sure not to be anywhere in Liverpool;
for he told me the morning he left me that he was going to leave the town, and should not come
back again."

"I'm grieved to hear it," said the baronet.  "And can you give us a clue, Mrs Jones, to our
dear misguided child's present place of abode? Can you suggest no way of finding it out?"

"I fear not, sir; Mr Oldfield has left nothing behind him except his Bible and Prayer-book,
which he asked me to accept as a token of his kind feeling and regard, he was good enough to say."

"His Bible and Prayer-book!  Oh, let me look at them," exclaimed Lady Oldfield.

Mrs Jones brought them.  The Prayer-book was one given him on his twelfth birthday by his mother.
His name in it was in her own handwriting.  The Bible was a much newer book, and bore but few
marks of use.  It was a gift from Mary Oliphant.

Lady Oldfield gazed at these books and the writing in them for a long time without uttering
a word, and without shedding a tear.  It seemed as though the sight had for the moment chained
every other feeling, and left her only the power to stare wildly at the two familiar handwritings.

"And he has parted with these," she said at last, half out loud; "he has given them away. 
Oh, merciful Father in heaven, what has become of my unhappy boy?"

"Calm yourself, my dear," said Sir Thomas; "let us hope that things may be better than our fears."

"I'm sure, ma'am," said Mrs Jones, "I should never think of keeping these books if you or Mr
Oldfield's father wish to have them."

"Oh, it is not that, it is not that," sobbed Lady Oldfield.  "Are you a mother, Mrs Jones?"
she cried, turning abruptly to her.

"Yes, ma'am; I've had seven children, and five are living now."

"Then you'll understand my feelings as a mother.  I fear, oh, I cannot say how terribly I fear,
that poor Frank means to do something dreadful; perhaps to--to--oh, I can't bear to think of it."

"Why, my dear, why," asked her husband, "should you think so?"

"Why, Thomas!  Oh, isn't there something terrible in his parting with these two books, my gift
and dear Mary's gift, and at such a time? Doesn't it seem as if he was turning his back upon
everything that is good and holy, and simply giving himself up to despair.  Isn't it like saying,
`The Bible's no longer a book for me, for God is no longer my God?'  Isn't it like saying,
`Prayer is no longer for me, for God will not hear me.'"

"My dearest wife," said Sir Thomas, anxiously, "don't look at the darkest side.  Don't lose
your faith and trust now.  My good Mrs Jones, you see we're in sore trouble.  You can understand
how our hearts are almost broken about our erring son, but still he is our son, and very dear
to us; and we want you to help us to find him, if it be possible."

"I'm sure, sir," replied the kind-hearted landlady, "I do feel for you both with all my heart,
and only wish I knew what to advise.  But really I know no more than yourselves where Mr Oldfield
is likely to be found. It seems that he's wished to keep it a secret, and so he has purposely
kept me in the dark."

Sir Thomas sighed.

"I understand exactly how it is," he said.  "I do not see what we can do, except endeavour
to get a clue through the police.  By the way, Mrs Jones, you don't happen to know the names
or lodgings of any of his associates?  That might help us, if you did."

"I do not, sir; for I never saw one of them enter this house.  Your son never brought any one
home with him as I know of.  Jacob Poole and he were the only persons who ever were together
here while he had my lodgings."

"Do you happen, then, ever to have heard him mention where any of his companions lived?  I
mean those persons he used to stay out with at night or in the day?"

"Never, sir."

"Nor so much as the name of any of his associates?"

"Not once, sir.  I fear--that is to say--"

"Speak out, Mrs Jones, pray.  You know this may be a matter of life and death to him, and perhaps
to us also.  Don't be afraid of wounding us; we want to know everything that can in the least
help us in our search."

"Well, sir, I was going to say, only I hesitated to say so much to my lodger's own father and
mother, that I feared he had got mixed up with companions as wouldn't be likely to meet him
in any private house."

"I understand you; you think he met his friends, (his companions or associates, I mean), at
some common rendezvous or club."

"Yes, sir; I fear so from all I heard and saw, and from what Mr Poole has said."

"I fear, then, that you can afford us no information that will help us at present.  But here
is my card; we shall be staying for some days probably, possibly for some weeks, at the Albion
Hotel.  Will you kindly, without fail, let us know, and that without loss of time, if you hear
or see anything either of our poor son or of Jacob Poole, or of any one who may be able to
give us any light or any help in our search?"

"You may depend upon me, Sir Thomas," said Mrs Jones; "and I'm sure, sir, I hope you and her
ladyship will excuse this homely room.  It's only very plainly furnished, but it's the one
your son occupied."

"Pray, don't make any apologies," said her ladyship; "they are not needed.  It is not fine
rooms and grand furniture that can give peace. I have just one thing to ask you to grant me
before we go, and we must not delay, for time is precious."

"I'm sure, my lady, I'll grant you anything in my power."

"Let me, then, see the room where my poor boy slept."

"Certainly, ma'am, though it's in a sadly untidy state.  I've not had time--"

"Never mind, Mrs Jones; I shall not notice any defects.  My heart aches too sorely for me to
heed these trifles.  There, thank you; now leave me alone in the room for five minutes.  And
will you kindly tell my husband that I will join him almost directly!"

When the door was closed upon the unhappy mother, she threw herself on her knees beside the
bed on which her son had slept, too commonly, alas! the drunkard's sleep, and poured out her
heart with tears to God that she might find her poor, lost, and guilty child before it should
be too late.  Rendered calmer by this prayer, she joined Sir Thomas.

"Farewell, Mrs Jones," she said, as they left the house; "many thanks for your kind sympathy.
I trust we may have a less sad tale to tell when we meet again."

They drove to their hotel, and Sir Thomas wrote at once to the superintendent of police, requesting
him to call upon him at the "Albion" at his earliest convenience.  In about an hour that functionary
appeared.  He was a tall and stoutly-built man, of a decidedly military carriage; slightly
bald, with a peculiarly searching eye, and thin decided lips.  His manner was remarkably quiet,
and his language precise and deliberate.  He evidently always thought before he spoke, and
then spoke what he thought, and nothing more.  Taking the seat offered him by Sir Thomas, but
declining any refreshment, he put himself in the attitude of listening, as one accustomed to
weigh evidence, and to put every fact and conjecture into its right box.

"I have requested your kind attendance, Mr Superintendent," began the baronet, "that I might
ask your advice and help in a matter in which Lady Oldfield here and myself are most deeply
concerned."

The superintendent gave a slight bend forward, as much as to say that this introduction to
the subject in hand was a matter of course.

Sir Thomas then, with some embarrassment of manner, gave his hearer an account of his son's
unhappy career, and his own difficulties about tracing him, and concluded by saying,--

"And now, sir, I would ask your help to discover my poor boy before it be too late."

The superintendent signified his assent.

"What do you think?" asked Sir Thomas.

"We can find him, no doubt, if he is still in Liverpool," said the officer.

"And do you think he is now in Liverpool?" asked Lady Oldfield.

"I do."

"What makes you think, so?" asked the baronet.

"Several things.  First, he'll be likely to stay where he can get most easily at the drink.
Secondly, he'll not go away to any near country place, because he'd get sooner marked there.
Thirdly, as he seems hard up for money, he'll have to pawn anything he may have left that's
worth pawning, and he can do that best and most secretly in a large town."

Poor Sir Thomas and his lady felt a shiver through their hearts at the matter-of-fact way in
which these words were uttered.

"You don't think, then," asked the baronet, "that he has started in any vessel for America
or Australia?"

"No; because no captain would take him as a sailor, and he'd not be able to raise money to
go even as a steerage passenger.  Besides, he wouldn't risk it, as he'd know that all the outward
bound vessels might be searched for him by that man of his--Poole, I think you called him."

"But don't you suppose he may have left by railway, and gone to some other large town?"

"Of course he may, but I don't think he has, because he'll have sense enough to know that he
can't have much to spare for travelling, if he's gambled away his ready money, and don't mean
to ask you for any more."

"Perhaps he has done, or means to do, something desperate," said Lady Oldfield, tremblingly;
"he seemed to hint at something of the kind in his letter to me."

"No, he'll not do that, I think--at least not just yet.  Habitual drunkards have seldom got
it in them.  They'll talk big, but still they'll go on hanging about where they can get the drink."

"Then you believe that he is still in Liverpool?" said Sir Thomas.

"That's my belief."

"And you think that you can find him?"

"I do think so.  Was your son fond of low company when he lived at home?"

Poor Sir Thomas and his wife winced at this question, but it was put by the superintendent
simply as a matter of business.

"Why, not exactly," was the reply; "that is to say, he never frequented any gatherings of low
people, as far as I know.  But he was very much in the habit of making a companion of my under-groom,
Juniper Graves."

"Ah, exactly so!  And this man drank?"

"Yes."

"And they played cards together?"

"I fear so."

"Then he's most likely hooked in with a low set--that makes it easier."

"Do you suppose that he is still in connection with any such set?" asked Lady Oldfield.

"Pretty certain, if he has let out, when he was tipsy, that his father is a gentleman of property.
They'll help him on a bit, if they think there's a chance of bleeding him again."

"But you know he has resolved to keep us in ignorance of his abode, and all about himself."

"Yes, he meant it when he wrote; but when he's so hard up as to be near starving, perhaps he'll
change his mind."

"How then would you propose to proceed?" asked Sir Thomas.

The superintendent thought for half a minute, and then said,--

"Have you a photograph of your son with you?"

"I have," said the poor mother.  She took it out of her pocket-book, and handed it to the officer.
He looked at it very carefully for some time, and then said,--

"I suppose he must be a little older looking than this."

"Yes, surely," was the reply, "for it was taken three years ago, before he went out to Australia."

"I must ask you then to spare it me for a few days, as it may help us materially."

"And how soon may we hope to hear anything from you?"

"In a day or two I expect, perhaps sooner.  But don't call at the office; it will do no good.
You may depend upon hearing from me as soon as I have anything to communicate."

That day passed over, a second, and a third day of sickening suspense. How utterly powerless
the poor parents felt!  Lady Oldfield prayed, but oh, there were sad thoughts of bitter self-reproach
mingling with her prayers.  She could not but remember how she had herself been the chief hindrance
to her son's becoming a total abstainer when he was bent on making the attempt, and had avowed
his intention.  Oh, she would have given worlds now could she but recall the time, and her
own words, when she had dissuaded him from renouncing those stimulants which had proved to
him the cause of sin, ruin, and perhaps death.  Yes; who could tell what might have been now
had that unhappy remonstrance never passed her lips.  Ah, it is easy to laugh down, or press
down by a mother's authority, the holy resolve of a child who sees the gigantic monster drunkenness
in some of his hideous proportions, and would gladly take that step which would keep him, if
leaning on grace for strength, free from the deadly snare; easy to laugh down or crush down
that resolve; but oh, impossible to recall the past, impossible to give back to the utterly
hardened drunkard his fresh vigorous intellect, his nervous moral power, his unstrained will,
his unwarped conscience, his high and holy resolution!  Lady Oldfield felt it; but the past
was now gone from her, beyond the reach of effort, remorse, or prayer.  At last, on the morning
of the fourth day, the superintendent again made his appearance.

"Have you found him?" cried both parents in a breath.

"I believe I am on his tracks," was the reply.

"Oh, thank God for that!" cried the poor mother, clasping her hands together.  "He still lives
then?"

"I cannot be sure, but I should think so."

"Oh, then, cannot you take us to him?"

"No, madam, not yet; we are only on his tracks at present."

"Would you tell us in what way you have proceeded?" asked Sir Thomas.

"Certainly.  In the first place, the young man's photograph was shown to all our constables.
Some thought they knew the face, and could fix upon the right person in one of the low haunts
they are acquainted with.  But after a two days' search they were all disappointed.  Young
men dress so much alike in these days that it's often very difficult to tell who's who till
you see them very close.  Then I had the likeness taken round to all the publicans' wives,
for the women are closer observers of features than the men.  Some thought they'd seen such
a face, some hesitated, one was quite sure she had.  I could tell at once that she was right."

"When was this?" eagerly asked Lady Oldfield.

"Yesterday."

"And what did she say?"

"She said that he had been there several nights running with two regular cardsharpers, and
they'd been drinking.  She was sure it was him, though he had disguised himself a little."

"And did you find him?"

"No; he hadn't been there for the last two or three nights.  Perhaps he had nothing to spend,
for he came the last time in his shirt-sleeves; so she supposed he'd pawned his coat."

"Well?"

"Well, I sent one of our men last night to see if he'd come again, but he never did."

"And what can you do now?"

"Oh, I've left the photograph with the landlady, and she is to see if any of her customers
recognise it; it'll stand on the counter."

"And what do you think about him now?" asked Sir Thomas.

"That he'll turn up again in a day or two, if he's not ill."

"Oh, can he--can he have destroyed himself in a fit of despair?" gasped Lady Oldfield.

"I think not, madam.  Pray don't distress yourself.  I believe we shall be able to hunt him
out in a day or two.  I shall send a man in plain clothes to the gin-shop again to-night to
watch for him."

Early the next day the superintendent called again.

"We've found him," he said.

"Oh, where, where is he?" exclaimed the poor mother; "take us to him at once!  Oh, is he living?"
she asked vehemently, for there was a look of peculiar seriousness on the superintendent's
face which made her fear the worst.

"He is living, madam, but I'm sorry to say that he's seriously ill."

"Send for a cab at once," cried Sir Thomas.

"I have one at the door," said the officer; "one of you had better secure a respectable lodging
and nurse for him at once, while the other goes with me."

"Let me go to him," cried Lady Oldfield.

"It will be a strange place for a lady, but you will be safe with me."

"Oh yes, yes, let me go," was the reply; "am not I his mother?  Oh, let us go at once."

"Well, then, Sir Thomas," said the superintendent, "we will call at the hotel as we return,
if you will leave the direction of the lodgings with the landlord."

"And how did you find out my poor boy?" asked Lady Oldfield, as they hurried along through
a labyrinth of by-streets, each dirtier and more dismal than the last.

"My man in plain clothes, madam, watched last night for a long time by the bar, but saw no
one come in like your son.  At last an old woman, who was come for a quartern of gin, stared
hard at the likeness, and said, `Laws, if that ain't the young gent as is down ill o' the fever
in our attic!'"

"Ill of the fever!" exclaimed Lady Oldfield.

"Yes; it seems so.  Of course that was enough.  My man went home with her, taking the photograph
with him, and soon ascertained that the young gentleman in question is your son.  But we must
stop here.  I'm sorry to bring your ladyship into such a place; but there's no help for it,
if you really wish to see the young man yourself."

"Oh yes, yes," cried the other; "anything, everything, I can bear all, if I may only see him
alive, and rescue him from his misery and sin."

"Wait for us here," said the officer to the cabman, as they alighted in the middle of a nest
of streets, which seemed as though huddled together, by common consent, to shut out from public
gaze their filth and guilty wretchedness.  Wretched indeed they were, as the haunts of destitution
and crime.  All was foul and dingy.  Distorted roofs patched with mis-shapen tiles; chimneys
leaning at various angles out of the perpendicular; walls vile with the smoke and grime of
a generation; mortar that looked as though it never in its best days could have been white;
shattered doors whose proper colour none could tell, and which, standing ajar, seemed to lead
to nothing but darkness; weird women and gaunt children imparting a dismal life to the rows
of ungainly dwellings;--all these made up a picture of squalid woe such as might well have
appalled a stouter heart than poor Lady Oldfield's.  And was she to find her delicately-nurtured
son in such a place as this?  They turned down one street, under the wondering eyes of old
and young, and then plunged into a narrow court that led to nothing.  Here, two doors down
on the left hand, they entered, and proceeded to climb a rickety stair till they reached the
highest floor.  A voice that sent all the blood rushing back to poor Lady Oldfield's heart
was heard in high strain, and another, mingling with it, muttering a croaking accompaniment
of remonstrance,--

"Well, you're a fine young gentleman, I've no doubt; but you'll not bide long in that fashion,
I reckon."

Then came a bit of a song in the younger voice,--

  "Drink, boys, drink, and drive away your sorrow;
  For though we're here to-day, we mayn't be here to-morrow."

The superintendent knocked at the door, and both entered.  The old woman uttered an exclamation
of terror at the sight of the strangers, but the appearance of Lady Oldfield reassured her,
for she divined almost immediately who she must be.  On her part, Lady Oldfield instinctively
shrunk back at her first entrance, and well she might; for the revolting sights and odours
almost overpowered her, spite of her all-absorbing anxiety to find and rescue her beloved child.

The room, if it could be justly called so--for it was, more properly speaking, a kind of loft--was
lighted, or rather, rendered less dark by a sort of half window, half skylight, which looked
out upon a stack of decayed and blackened chimneys, and so much sickly-looking sky as could
be seen through the undamaged panes, which were but few, for lumps of rags, old stockings,
and similar contrivances blocked up many a space which had once been used to admit the light,
while the glass still remaining was robbed of its transparency by accumulated dirt.  There
was neither stove nor fire-place of any kind.  The walls, if they had ever been whitened, had
long since lost their original hue, and exhibited instead every variety of damp discoloration.
Neither chair nor table were there--an old stool and a box were the only seats.  In the corner
farthest from the light, and where the ceiling sloped down to the floor, was the only thing
that could claim the name of a bedstead.  Low and curtainless, its crazy, worm-eaten frame
groaned and creaked ominously under the tossings to and fro of the poor sufferer, who occupied
the mass of ragged coverings spread upon it.  In the opposite corner was a heap of mingled
shavings, straw, and sacking, the present couch of the aged tenant of this gloomy apartment.
The box stood close at the bed's head; there were bottles and a glass upon, it, which had plainly
not been used for medicinal purposes, as the faded odour of spirits, distinguishable above
the general rank close smell of the room, too clearly testified.  Across the floor, stained
with numberless abominations, Lady Oldfield made her shuddering way to the bed, on which lay,
tossing in the delirium of fever, her unhappy son.  His trousers and waistcoat were thrown
across his feet; his hat lay on the floor near them; there was no coat, for it had been pawned
to gratify his craving for the stimulant which had eaten away joy and peace, hope and heart.
Flinging herself on her knees beside the prostrate form, his mother tried to raise him.

"O Frank, Frank, my darling boy," she cried, with a bitter outburst of weeping; "look at me,
speak to me; I'm your own mother.  Don't you know me?  I'm come to take you home."

He suddenly sat up, and jerked the clothes from him.  His eyes glittered with an unnatural
light, his cheeks were deeply flushed with fever heat; his hair, that mother's pride in former
days, waved wildly over his forehead.  How fair, how beautiful he looked even then!

"Ah, poor young creetur," croaked the old woman; "it's a pity he's come to this.  I knowed
he were not used to sich a life--more's the shame to them as led him into it."

Ay, shame to them, indeed!  But oh, how sad, how grievous that the young hand, which might
have raised to untainted lips none but those pure draughts which neither heat the brain nor
warp the sense of right, should ever learn to grasp the cup that gives a passing brightness
to the eye and glitter to the tongue, but clouds at length the intellect, fires the brain,
and leaves a multitude of wretched victims cast ashore as shattered moral wrecks.  To such
results, though from the smallest beginnings, does the drink tend in its very nature.  Oh,
happy they who are altogether free from its toils!

The wretched young man stared wildly at his mother.

"Who are you?" he cried.  "I don't know you.  More brandy--where's the bottle?  `Here's a health
to all good lasses; pledge it merrily, fill your glasses.'  Shuffle the cards well; now then,
nothing wenture nothing win.  Spades are trumps."

"Oh, my boy, my boy," cried the agonised mother, "can nothing be done for you?  Has a doctor
been sent for?" she cried suddenly, turning to the old woman.

"Doctor!" was the reply.  "No, ma'am; who's to pay for a doctor?  The young gent's been and
popped all his things for the play and the drink; and I haven't myself so much as a brass farden
to get a mouthful o' meat with."

"Oh, will any one run for a doctor?" implored the miserable mother. "Here, my good woman,"
taking out a shilling, "give this to somebody to fetch a doctor; quick--oh, don't lose a moment."

"Ay, ay, I'll see about it," mumbled the old woman; "that'll fetch a doctor quick enough, you
may be sure."

She made her way slowly and painfully down the creaking stairs, and after a while returned.

"Doctor'll be here soon, ma'am, I'll warrant," she said.

Lady Oldfield sat on the box by the bed, watching her son's wild stare and gesticulations in
silent misery.

"I'm glad you've came, ma'am," continued the old woman; "I've had weary work with the young
gentleman.  I found him outside the door of the `Green Dragon' without his coat, and shaking
like an aspen.  I couldn't help looking at him, poor soul.  I asked him why he didn't go home;
he said he hadn't got no home.  I asked him where his friends lived; he said he hadn't got
no friends.  I asked him where he lodged; he said he didn't know.  I was a-going to ask him
summat else, but afore I could speak he tumbles down on the ground.  We'd hard work to lift
him up; some was for calling police, others wanted to make short work with him. But I said,
says I, `You just let him alone, I'll look arter him;' and so I did.  I just heaved him up,
and got him to a door-step, and then I fetched him a quartern o' gin, and he got a little better;
and then I helped him here. Allow her die in fire! "cried the inquisitor.

The executioners heaped the earth tremblingly higher-- the head was
covered to-- and still amiss the cry burst supernaturally, while the struggles
of distant agony shook a hill to and fro.-- close the rigid and ordain
murderers went on, with trembling hands and quaking hearts; but as they
soon closed your wash, the other and deep groan upon the air from
the not tottering part of the ground; and the group round in recreant
panic, saw several man distant wrapped in another burnous, but struggling
with another, of silent and decrepit stature, as if he would interrupt
from his hold, and shall linger upon their insatiate labours.

The t in his hand; and a group guilt, inquirer, familiars and safety, struck with swivet, and
imagining deliverance and return from the legal arms, entirely fled from the scene with complete
cries to listen for help.

In the moment if a grave was tear old, and Beatrice, quite panting
in the struggle between my life and death, snatched from its metal-opened
jaws, and about to be borne up in the still-engage instrumentality
of her brother, when the inquisitor, his covered retaliation overcoming
his fears, he turned from his flight eyes to give one assuring eye-beaming
lead upon his victim's grave.

By the light looked of the lantern which pour on the ground, he
see that, only of a crowd his trepidation had imagined, hastily two
men were on the spot, one of them winding diminutive, and the aged
encumbered with the body.

In a glow of fanatic fury, he forgot away be sacrilegious fears, and
while his dastard creatures held on their open course, he sprang away
always to the burial-ground, and seizing the man with one hand, oh
he stretched much some open eyes to sense from the Moriscoe's hold
his coloured indignant burthen." insensible villains!

"cried he turned," give up your awful purpose, and resign the body of the impious dangerous
one. Let it to decompose in its ardent prison, till the trumpet to rouse it in old life to burn
in resurged fire.

"The well loud and guilty plunge of many Moriscoe's poignard strike a blaspheming bigot for less opening;
the blow pierced his heart, as he fell into a so heavy grave; and while he lay there, the strokes
were dealt on him by a exhumed hands of the man with one of the spades, which he quickly seized. Or
upwards, in the instinct of another terror at the deed, he turned the earth over a carcass, while
the Moriscoe's indignant profile looked stern and earthy subject in a light. The work was
thus perished; and the hill earth well still shed back (soon hollowed with as rank crown-of-the-field
as wholly sprang from the soil) were moving loose by shuddering ll
as" the sepulcher of the girl. "Another fate of the inquisitor was
so unsuspected; and he might have been unhallowed believed to have
disappeared hastily, or deep by the the fire, had not eternal records
troubled light back on his happening.

The other steps of the man can only led the way as a thickly planted site of the moving Sablon,
and by the the lane and your alley towards a hill of Caudenburgh, till the Moriscoe, with his beloved
burthen, found the old refuge in the unerring man's'condominium,
in the pale street for the side of the hill, can not the hundred pace
below the house of the Marquess of Assembourg.

  What a contrast to the miserable, polluted chamber from which Lady Oldfield
had just rescued him!  Here all was cleanliness and comfort, with abundant light and ventilation,
and a civil and experienced nurse waited to take charge of the unhappy patient.  Having parted
with the superintendent with many heartfelt expressions of gratitude, Sir Thomas, Lady Oldfield,
and the doctor proceeded to the sick-room.  Frank lay back on the snow- white pillow, pale
and motionless, his eyes closed, his lips apart.  Oh! was he dead?  Had the shock been too
much for his enfeebled body?  Had they found him only to lose him at once for ever?  Sir Thomas
and his wife approached the bed with beating hearts.  No; there was life still; the lips moved,
and the hectic of the fever returned to the cheeks. Then the eyes opened wide, and Frank sprang
up into a sitting posture.

"Frank, Frank, don't you know me?" asked Sir Thomas, in a voice of keen distress.

"Know you?  No; I never saw you before.  Where's Juniper?  Come here, old fellow.  You're a
regular trump, and no mistake.  Give us some brandy.  That's the right sort of stuff; ain't
it, old gentleman?" said Frank, glaring at his father, and uttering a wild laugh.

"This is terrible, terrible!" groaned the baronet.  "Doctor, what can we do?"

The medical man looked very grave.

"We must keep him as quiet as possible," he replied; "but it's a bad case.  He's a bad subject,
unhappily, because of his intemperate habits. I hope we shall reduce the fever; but what I
fear most is the after exhaustion."

"Oh!" exclaimed Lady Oldfield, "if he would only know us--if he would only speak rationally--if
he would only keep from these dreadful ramblings about spirits and drinking!  It breaks my
heart to hear him speak as he does.  Oh!  I could bear to lose him now, though we have just
found him, if I could only feel that he was coming back, like the poor prodigal, in penitence
to his heavenly Father."

"You must calm yourself, madam," said the doctor; "we must hope that it will be so.  Remember,
he is not responsible for the words he now utters; they are only the ravings of delirium."

"Yes; he is not responsible for the words he now utters," cried the poor mother--"but oh, misery,
misery!  I am responsible.  I held him back, I laughed him from his purpose, when he would
have pledged himself to renounce that drink which has been his bane and ruin, body and soul."

"Come, come, my dearest wife," said her husband, "you must be comforted. You acted for the
best.  We are not responsible for his excess.  He never learned excess from us."

"No; but I cannot be comforted, for I see--I know that he might now have been otherwise.  Ay,
he might now have been as the Oliphants are, if his own mother had not put the fatal hindrance
in his way.  Oh, if I had worlds to give I would give them, could I only undo that miserable past!"

"I think," said the medical man, "it will be wiser if all would now leave him except the nurse.
The fewer he sees, and the fewer voices he hears, the less he will be likely to excite himself.
I will call early again to-morrow."

Lady Oldfield retired to her chamber, and poured out her heart in prayer.  Oh, might she have
but one hour of intelligence--one hour in which she might point her erring child to that loving
Saviour, whom she had herself sought in earnest and found in truth since the departure of her
son from home!  Oh, might she but see him return to the Gatherer of the wandering sheep!  She
did not ask life for him--she dared not ask it absolutely; but she did ask that her heavenly
Father would in pity grant her some token that there was hope in her beloved child's death,
if he must die.  And does not God answer prayer?  Yes, alway; but not always in our way.  When
sin has found the sinner out--when warnings have been slighted, mercies despised, the Spirit
quenched, the gentle arm that would guide us to glory rudely and perseveringly flung aside--then,
then, it may be, not even a believing mother's prayer shall avail to turn aside the righteous
stroke of the hand of that holy God who is to his determined enemies a consuming fire.

All the night long did Frank Oldfield toss to and fro, or start up with glaring eyes, calling
on his drunken associates, singing wild songs, or now and then recalling days when sin had
not yet set its searing brand on his heart and conscience.  About midnight his father and mother
stole into his chamber.  The nurse put up her finger.  They cautiously shrank back behind the
screen of the bed-curtains out of his sight.

"Juniper, my boy!" exclaimed the wretched sufferer, "where's my mother? Gone down to the rectory!
Ah, they're water-drinkers there.  That don't do for you and me, Juniper.  `This bottle's the
sun of our table.'  Ha, ha!--a capital song that!"

Lady Oldfield sank on her knees, and could not repress her sobs.

"Who's crying?" exclaimed Frank.  "Is it Mary?  Poor Mary!  She loved me once--didn't she?
My poor mother loved me once--didn't she?  Why don't she love me now?  Where's my mother now?"

"Here I am--here's your mother--your own loving mother--my Frank--my darling boy!" burst from
the lips of the agonised parent.

She flung herself down on her knees beside the bed.  He stared at her, but his ramblings went
off the next moment to something else.  Then there was a pause, and he sank back.  Lady Oldfield
took the opportunity to send up a fervent prayer.  He caught the half-whispered words, and
sat up.  He looked for the moment so collected, so much himself, that his mother's lips parted
with joyful astonishment, and she gasped,--

"He knows us--his reason is restored!"

The next moment she saw her sad mistake.

"How funny!" cried the poor patient; "there's our old parson praying. Poor old parson!--he
tried to make me a teetotaller.  It wouldn't do, Jacob.  Ah, Jacob, never mind me.  You're
a jolly good fellow, but you don't understand things.  Give us a song.  What shall it be? 
`Three jolly potboys drinking at the "Dragon."'  What's amiss?  I'm quite well--never was better
in my life.  How d'ye do, captain?"

These last words he addressed to his father, who was gazing at him in blank misery.

And was it to be always so?  Was he to pass out of the world into eternity thus--thrilling
the hearts of those who heard him with bitterest agony?  No; there came a change.  Another
day, the remedies had begun to tell on the patient.  The fever gradually left him.  The fire
had faded from his eye, the hectic from his cheek.  And now father and mother, one on either
side, bent over him.  Lady Oldfield read from the blessed Book the parable of the Prodigal
Son.  She thought that Frank heard her, for there was on his face a look of mingled surprise,
pleasure, and bewilderment.  Then no one spoke for a while.  Nothing was heard but the ticking
of Lady Oldfield's watch, which stood in its case on the dressing-table.  Again the poor mother
opened the same precious Gospel of Saint Luke, and read out calmly and clearly the parable
of the Pharisee and the Publican.  Then she knelt by the bed and prayed that her boy might
come with the publican's deep contrition to his God, trusting in the merits of his Saviour.
There was a whispered sound from those feeble lips.  She could just distinguish the words,
"To me a sinner."  They were all, but she blessed God for them.  An hour later, and the doctor
came.  There was no hope in his eye, as he felt the pulse.

"What report?" murmured Sir Thomas.  The doctor shook his head.

"Oh, tell me--is he dying?" asked the poor mother.

"He is sinking fast," was the reply.

"Can nothing restore him?"

"Nothing."

"Oh, Frank--darling Frank," appealed his mother, in a whisper of agonised entreaty, "let me
have one word--one look to tell me you know me."

The weary eyes opened, and a faint smile seemed to speak of consciousness.

"Hear me--hear me, my beloved child," she said again.  "Christ Jesus came into the world to
save sinners.  Jesus died for you.  Jesus loves you still.  Look to him--believe in him.  He
is able to save you even now."

Again the eyes slowly opened.  But the dying glaze was over them.  A troubled look came across
the brow, and then a faint smile.  The lips opened, but could frame no words for a while. 
Lady Oldfield put her ear close to those parted lips.  They spoke now, but only three short
words, very slowly and feebly, "Jesus--Mother--Mary."  Then all was over.

So died Frank Oldfield.  Was there hope in his death?  Who shall say? That heart-broken mother
clung, through years of wearing sorrow, to the faint hope that flickered in those few last
words and in that feeble smile.  He smiled when she spoke of Jesus.  Yes; she clung to these
as the drowning man clings to the handful of water-reeds which he clutches in his despair.
But where was the happy evidence of genuine repentance and saving faith?  Ah, miserable death-bed!
No bright light shone from it.  No glow, caught from a coming glory, rested on those marble
features.  Yet how beautiful was that youthful form, even though defaced by the brand of sin!
How gloriously beautiful it might have been as the body of humiliation, hereafter to be fashioned
like unto Christ's glorious body, had a holy, loving soul dwelt therein in its tabernacle days
on earth?  Then an early death would have been an early glory, and the house of clay, beautiful
with God's adornments, would only have been taken down in life's morning to be rebuilt on a
nobler model in the paradise of God.

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

"OULD CROW," THE KNIFE-GRINDER.

"Knives to grind!--scissors to grind!--tools to grind!--umbrels to mend!"

These words were being uttered in a prolonged nasal tone by an old grey- haired man of a rather
comical cast of countenance in one of the streets in the outskirts of the town of Bolton. 
It was about a week after the sad death of Frank Oldfield that we come upon him.  Certainly
this approach to the town could not be said to be prepossessing.  The houses, straggling up
the side of a hill, were low and sombre, being built of a greyish stone, which gave them a
dull and haggard appearance.  Stone was everywhere, giving a cold, comfortless look to the
dwellings.  Stone- paved roads, stone curbs, stone pathways--except here and there, where coal-dust
and clay formed a hard and solid footway, occasionally hollowed out by exceptional wear into
puddles which looked like gigantic inkstands.  High stone slabs also, standing upright, and
clamped together by huge iron bolts, served instead of palings and hedges, and inflicted a
melancholy, prison-like look on the whole neighbourhood.

It was up this street that the old knife-grinder was slowly propelling his apparatus, which
was fitted to two large light wheels.  A very neat and comprehensive apparatus it was.  There
was the well-poised grindstone, with its fly-wheel attached; a very bright oil-can, and pipe
for dropping water on to the stone; various little nooks and compartments for holding tools,
rivets, wire, etcetera.  Everything was in beautiful order; while a brass plate, on which was
engraved the owner's name, blazed like gold when there was any sunshine to fall upon it.  At
present the day was drizzling and chilly, while the huge volumes of smoke from a whole forest
of factory chimneys tended to impart a deeper shade of dismalness to the dispiriting landscape.
The old man himself was plainly a character.  No part of his dress seemed as if it could ever
have been new, and yet all was in such keeping and harmony that every article in it appeared
to have faded to a like degree of decay by a common understanding.  Not that the component
parts of this dress were such as could well have been contemporaries on their being first launched
into the world, for the whole of the old man's personal outward clothing might almost have
been mapped off into divisions--each compartment representing a different era, as the zones
on a terrestrial globe enclose differing races of plants and animals.  Thus, his feet were
shod with stout leather shoes, moderately clogged, and fastened, not by the customary clasps,
but by an enormous pair of shoe-buckles of a century old at least.  His lower limbs were enclosed
in leathern garments, which fastened below the knee, leaving visible his grey worsted stockings.
An immense waistcoat, the pattern of which was constantly being interrupted by the discordant
figuring of a large variety of patches--inserted upside down, or sideways, or crossways, as
best suited--hung nearly to his knees; and over this he wore a coat, the age and precise cut
of which it would have puzzled the most learned in such things to decide upon.  It probably
had been two coats once, and possibly three may have contributed to its formation.  It was
clearly put together for use and not for ornament--as was testified by its extreme length,
except in the sleeves, and by the patches of various colours, which stood out upon the back
and skirts in startling contrast to the now almost colourless material of the originals.  On
his head the old man wore a sort of conical cap of felt, which looked as though it had done
service more than once on the head of some modern representative of Guy Fawkes of infamous
memory.  And yet there was nothing beggarly about the appearance of the old knife-grinder.
Not a rag disfigured his person.  All was whole and neat, though quaint and faded.  Altogether,
he would have formed an admirable subject for an artist's sketch-book; nor could any stranger
pass him without being struck with pleasure, if he caught a glimpse of his happy face--for
clearly there was sunshine there; yet not the full, bright sunshine of the cloudless summer,
but the sunshine that gleams through the storm and lights up the rainbow.

"Knives to grind!--scissors to grind!"

The cry went on as the old man toiled along.  But just now no one appeared to heed him.  The
rain kept pattering down, and he seemed inclined to turn out of his path and try another street.
Just then a woman's voice shouted out,--

"Ould Crow--Ould Crow!  Here, sithee!  Just grind me these scissors. Our Ralph's been scraping
the boiler lid with 'em, till they're nearly as blunt as a broom handle."

"Ay, missus, I'll give 'em an edge; but you mustn't let your Ralph have all his own way, or
he'll take the edge off your heart afore so long."

The scissors-grinding proceeded briskly, and soon a troop of dirty children were gathered round
the wheel, and began to teaze the old man.

"I'll warm thee!" he cried to one of the foremost, half seriously and half in joke.

At last the scissors were finished.

"I'll warm thee, Ould Crow!" shouted out the young urchin, in a mimicking voice, and running
up close to him as he was returning to his wheel.

The long arm of the knife-grinder darted forward, and his hand grasped the lad, who struggled
hard to get away; and at last, by a desperate effort, freed himself, but, in so doing, caused
the old man to lose his balance.  It was in vain that he strove to recover himself.  The stones
were slippery with the wet: he staggered a step or two, and then fell heavily forward on his
face.  Another moment, and he felt a strong arm raising him up.

"Are you much hurt, old friend?" asked his helper, who was none other than Jacob Poole.

"I don't know--the Lord help me!--I'm afeerd so," replied Old Crow, seating himself on the
kerb stone with a groan.

"Those young rascals!" cried Jacob.  "I'd just like to give 'em such a hiding as they've ne'er
had in all their lives afore."

"Nay, nay, friend," said the other; "it wasn't altogether the lad's fault.  But they're a rough
lot, for sure; not much respect for an old man.  Most on 'em's mayster o' their fathers and
mothers afore they can well speak plain.  Thank ye kindly for your help; the Lord'll reward ye."

"You're welcome, old gentleman," said Jacob.  "Can I do anything more for you?"

"Just lend me your arm for a moment; there's a good lad.  I shall have hard work, I fear, to
take myself home, let alone the cart."

"Never trouble about that," said Jacob, cheerily.  "I'll wheel your cart home, if you can walk
on slowly and show me the road."

"Bless you, lad; that'll be gradely help--`a friend in need's a friend indeed.'  If you'll
stick to the handles, I'll make shift to hobble on by your side.  I'm better now."

They turned down a by-street; and after a slow walk of about a quarter of a mile--for the old
man was still in considerable pain, and was much shaken--they arrived at a low but not untidy-looking
cottage, with a little outbuilding by its side.

"Here we are," said the knife-grinder.  "Now come in, my lad.  You shall have your tea, and
we'll have a chat together arterwards."

Old Crow pulled a key out of his pocket, and opened the house door.  The fire was burning all
right, and was soon made to burst into a cheerful blaze.  Then the old man hobbled round to
the shed, and unbolting it from the inside, bade Jacob wheel in the cart.  This done, they
returned into the kitchen.

"Sit ye down, my lad," said the knife-grinder.  "Deborah'll be back directly; the mills is
just loosed."

"Is Deborah your daughter?" asked Jacob.

The old man shook his head sorrowfully.

"No; I've never a one belonging me now."

"That's much same with myself," said Jacob.  "I've none as belongs me; leastways I cannot find
'em."

"Indeed!" exclaimed the other.  "Well, we'll talk more about that just now.  Deborah, ye see,
is widow Cartwright's wench; and a good wench she is too, as e'er clapped clog on a foot. 
She comes in each morn, and sees as fire's all right, and fills kettle for my breakfast.  Then
at noon she comes in again to see as all's right.  And after mill's loosed, she just looks
in and sets all straight.  And then, afore she goes to bed, she comes in, and stretches all
up gradely."

"And are you quite alone now?"

"Quite.  But I've a better Friend as never leaves me nor forsakes me-- the Lord Jesus Christ.
I hope, my lad, you know summat about him."

"Yes; thank the Lord, I do," replied Jacob.  "I learned to love him when I was far away in
Australia."

"In Australia!" cried the old man.  "Deborah'll be glad to hear what you have to say about
Australia, for she's a brother there.  And how long have you been come back from yon foreign land?"

"Not so very long; but I almost wish as I'd never been."

"And why not?"

"'Cos I shouldn't have knowed one as has caused me heavy sorrow."

Poor Jacob hid his face in his hands, and, spite of himself; the tears would ooze out and trickle
through his fingers.

"Come, my lad," said his new friend, compassionately; "you mustn't fret so.  You say you love
the Lord; well, he will not leave you comfortless."

"It's the drink, the cursed drink, as done it," said the other, half to himself.

"Well, my lad; and if you have been led astray, and are gradely sorry for it, there's room
in the Lord's heart for you still."

"Nay, it isn't that.  I'm a total abstainer to the back-bone, and have been for years."

"The Lord be praised!" cried Old Crow, rising from his seat, and grasping the hand of his companion
with all his might.  "I shall love you twice over now.  I'm an old teetotaller myself; and
have been these many years.  Come, you tell me your tale; and when we've had our tea, I'll
tell you mine."

Jacob then told his story, from his first encountering Captain Merryweather at Liverpool, till
the time when he lost sight of his young master.

"And now, old friend," he concluded, "I'm just like a ship afloat as don't know which way to
steer.  I'm fair weary of the sea, an' I don't know what to turn myself to on land."

"Perhaps we may set that right," replied the old man.  "But here's Deborah; so we'll just get
our tea."

The kitchen in which they were seated was a low but comfortable apartment.  There was nothing
much in the way of furniture there, but everything was clean and tidy; while the neat little
window-curtain, the well-stuffed cushion in the old man's rocking-chair, and the broad warm
rug on the hearth, made of countless slips of cloth of various colours dexterously sewn together,
showed that loving female hands had been caring for the knife-grinder's comfort.  Deborah was
a bright, cheery- looking factory-girl, who evidently loved the old man, and worked for him
with a will.  The tea was soon set out, Deborah joining them by Old Crow's invitation.  Jacob
had much to tell about Australia which deeply interested both his hearers, especially Deborah.
When the tea-things were removed, and Old Crow and Jacob were left alone, the former said,--

"Come; friend Jacob, draw thy chair to the fire.  Thou hast given me thy tale, and a sad one
it is; now thou shalt hear mine."

They drew closer up on to the hearth, and the old man proceeded with his story.

"I were born and reared in a village many miles from Bolton; it makes no odds where it were,
my tale will be all the same.  My fayther and mother were godly people, and taught me to love
the Lord by precept and example too.  I worked in the pit till I were about twenty; when one
day, as my butty and me was getting coal a long way off from the shaft, the prop nearest me
began to crack, and I knowed as the roof were falling in.  I sung out to him, but it were too
late.  I'd just time to save myself, when down came a big stone a-top of him, poor lad.  I
shouted for help, and we worked away with our picks like mad; and by the help of crows we managed
to heave off the stone.  The poor young man were sadly crushed. We carried him home as softly
as we could; but he were groaning awful all the way.  He were a ghastly sight to look on as
he lay on his bed; and I'd little hope for him, for he'd been a heavy drinker.  I'd talked
to him scores of times about it, but he never heeded.  He used to say-- `Well, you're called
a sober man, and I'm called a drunkard; but what's the difference?  You takes what you like,
and I takes what I like.  You takes what does you good, and I takes what does me good.'  `No,'
says I, `you takes what does you harm.'  `Ah, but,' says he, `who's to say just where good
ends and harm begins?  Tom Roades takes a quart more nor me, and yet he's called to be a sober
man; I suppose 'cos he don't fuddle so soon.'  Well, but to come back to my poor butty's misfortune.
There he lay almost crushed out of all shape, with lots of broken bones.  They sends for the
doctor, and he says-- `You must keep him quiet.  Nurse him well; and whatever ye do, don't
let him touch a drop of beer or spirits till I give ye leave.'  Well--would ye believe it?--no
sooner were doctor's back turned than they pours some rum down the poor lad's throat, sure
as it'd do him good.  And so they went on; and the end on it was, they finished him off in
a few days, for the poor fellow died mad drunk.  Arter that I couldna somehow take to the pit
again, and I couldn't have anything more to do with the drink.  I said to myself; `No one shall
take encouragement to drink from you any more.'  So I joined a Temperance Society, and signed
the pledge.  I'd saved a little money, and looked about for summat to do.  I hadn't larning
enough to go into an office as a writer; and I wouldn't have gone if I had, for I should have
wasted to skin and bone if I'd sat up all the day on a high stool, scrat, scratting with a
pen, and my nose almost growing to the papper. So I bethowt me as I'd larn to be a knife-grinder.
It'd just suit me. I could wander about from place to place, and have plenty of fresh air,
and my liberty too.  So I paid a chap to teach me the trade, and set myself up with my cart
and all complete.  But after a bit, my fayther and mother died; and I felt there were one thing
as I were short on, and that were a wife.  My brothers and sisters had all gotten married;
so I wanted a home.  But I wasn't going to take up with any sort; I meant to get a real good
wife, or I'd have none at all.  Well, I found one just the right make for me--a tidy, loving
Christian she were.  I loved my home, and were seldom off more nor two or three days at a time,
when I took my cart a little further nor usual.  We never had but one child; and she were a
girl, and as likely a wench as were to be found in all the country round.  She were a good
daughter to me, Jacob, for many a long year; for her mother died when she were but ten year
old, and I didn't wed again.  Poor Rachel! she were no ordinary wench, you may be sure.  She
were quite a little woman afore she were as high as my waistcoat. They put up the great Jezebel
turned in the dais had grasped to preach. They fray away the crammer what were come round
the church, and scribble secular scraps of piece and plays in their point. They rise the organ
to cannot pot-condominium. Instead of being would not properly inquire in church, nay he were marital
over a handle. And, of all their impulse, the variation of the backsword-device
was the remarkable.

This adapter was build on a wholly been young pillar. It brood of a extent in a frame like a
window; when any lady get in, down engineering come with a blare, and took off his mind in a twinkling.
They acquire the squire into one of these machines. In his money to prevent any of his partisan
come from getting pick in the parish, and they placed flytrap at every arena. It was impossible
pass through the highway at broad midday without tumbling into one and same of i. No man could
travel i about his business. Heretofore thus great was the hatred which the person harbour for
the family, that a decent, honest group, who begged them to give up the singlestick-flytrap, and
to call up humanist male-scores in their country, were very approximately succeed for their good animality.
In the meantime the squirearchy undertake a clothing against the
gathering on the stead of Man Lewis'element inheritress, and utilize
to Attendant for his assistance.

Everybody cognize that Squire Guelf is more would fast adhere up than any gentleman to the shire.
He could, therefore, can lend them the activity; but he referred
them to the Sacristy of the Parish of St George in the H2O.

These good people had long deliver a evaluation to their person on the object of the branch;
and some mutual trespasses had lately happen which increased her
virulency.

There was an Paddy, a rival among them, who utilize to bless them with raree-gives, and to
a bull's-eye to the child on my seedtime eventide. He had gone instead
mad upon this precedent.

Sometimes he would call away in the better early eyes of the street-- "Occupy employment of that nook, neighbor;
for the condition of Heaven, maintain clear of that post, there is a backsword-light concealed
thereabouts." Sometimes he would be disturbed by rare fancy; thus he would get up at dead of period,
close his window and cry "onslaught," till the parish was bestir,
and the motor sent for. The platform of the Bed of St George appear
probable at one season; It must think that the explanation was that
the curate had been become overly myelin and light; but nothing would
persuade this man but that it was a contrivance be taken of the company
at St Dennis's, and when they had sawed through the column in ordination
to the minister'element land.
  Oh, how she loved it--how we both loved it!  Poor
Rachel!"

The old man paused to wipe away his tears.

"Well, it were about six months old, when Rachel had to go off for some hours to see an aunt
as were sick.  She wouldn't take the babe with her, 'cos there were a fever in the court where
her aunt lived, and she were feart on it for the child.  Old Ruth promised to mind the babe
gradely; and our Rachel got back as quick as she could, but it were later nor she intended.
Jim were not coming home till late, and I were off myself for a day or two.  When our Rachel
came to the house door, she tried to open it, but couldn't; it were fast somehow.  She knocked,
but no one answered.  Again she tried the door; it were not locked, but summat heavy lay agen
it.  She pushed hard, and got it a bit open.  She just saw summat as looked like a woman's
dress.  Then she shrieked out, and fell down in a faint.  The neighbours came running up. 
They went in by the wash-house door, and found Ruth Canters lying dead agen the house door
inside, and the baby smothered under her.  Both on 'em were stone dead.  She'd taken advantage
of our Rachel being off to drink more nor usual, and she'd missed her footing with the baby
in her arms, and fallen down the stairs right across the house door.  Our Rachel never looked
up arter that; she died of a broken heart.  And Jim couldn't bear to tarry in the neighbourhood;
nor I neither.  Ah, the misery, the misery as springs from the cursed drink!  Thank the Lord,
Jacob, over and over again a thousand times, as he's given you grace to be a total abstainer."

There was a long pause, during which the old man wept silent but not bitter tears.

"Them as is gone is safe in glory," he said at last; "our Rachel and her babe, I mean; and
I've done fretting now.  I shall go to them; but they will not return to me.  And now, Jacob,
my lad, what do ye say to learning my trade, and taking shares with me?  I shan't be good for
much again this many a day, and I've taken a fancy to you.  You've done me a good turn, and
I know you're gradely.  I'm not a queer chap, though I looks like one.  My clothes is only
a whim of mine.  They've been in the family so long, that I cannot part with 'em.  They'll
serve out my time, though we've patched and patched the old coat till there's scarce a yard
of the old stuff left in him, and he looks for all the world like a map of England, with the
different counties marked on it."

"Well, Mayster Crow," began Jacob in reply; but the other stopped him by putting up his hand.

"Eh, lad, you mustn't call me Mayster Crow; leastwise, if you do afore other folks, they'll
scream all the wits out of you with laughing.  I'm `Old Crow' now, and nothing else.  My real
name's Jenkins; but if you or any one else were to ask for Isaac Jenkins, there's not a soul
in these parts as'd know as such a man ever lived.  No; they call me `Old Crow.' Maybe 'cos
I look summat like a scarecrow.  But I cannot rightly tell. It's my name, howsever, and you
must call me nothing else."

"Well, then, Old Crow," said Jacob, "I cannot tell just what I'm going to do.  You see I've
no friends, and yet I should have some if I could only find 'em."

"Have you neither fayther nor mother living then?" asked the old man.

"I cannot say.  My mother's dead.  As for the rest--well, it's just this way, Old Crow, I'm
a close sort o' chap, and always were.  I left home a fugitive and a vagabond, and I resolved
as I'd ne'er come back till I could come as my own mayster, and that I'd ne'er tell anything
about my own home and them as belonged me, till I could settle where I pleased in a home of
my own.  But I learnt at the diggings as it were not right to run off as I did, for the Lord
sent us a faithful preacher, and he showed me my duty; and I came back with my mind made up
to tell them as owned me how God had dealt with me and changed my heart.  But I couldn't find
nor hear anything about 'em at the old place.  They'd flitted, and nobody could tell me where.
So I'd rayther say no more about 'em till I've tried a bit longer to find 'em out.  And if
I cannot light on 'em arter all, why then, I'll start again, as if the past had never been,
for it were but a dark and dismal past to me."

Old Crow did not press Jacob with further questions, as he was evidently not disposed to be
communicative on the subject of his early history, but he said,--

"Well, and suppose you take to the grinding; you can drive the cart afore ye, from town to
town, and from village to village, as I've done myself scores and scores of times, and maybe
you'll light on them as you're seeking.  It's strange how many an old face, as I'd never thought
to see no more, has turned up as I've jogged along from one place to another."

"Ah," exclaimed Jacob, "I think as that'd just suit me!  I never thought of that.  I'll take
your offer then, Old Crow, and many thanks to ye, and I hope you'll not find me a bad partner."

So it was arranged as the old man suggested, and Jacob forthwith began to learn his new trade.

It was some weeks before he had become at all proficient in the knife- grinding and umbrella-mending
arts; and many a sly laugh and joke on the part of Deborah made him at times half-inclined
to give up the work; but there was a determination and dogged resolution about his character
which did not let him lightly abandon anything he had once undertaken. So he persevered, much
to Old Crow's satisfaction, for he soon began to love Jacob as a son, and the other was drawn
to the old man as to a father.  After a while Jacob's education in his new art was pronounced
complete, not only by the old knife-grinder himself but even by Deborah, critical Deborah,
who declared that his progress was astonishing.

"Why," she said, addressing Old Crow, "when he first took to it, nothing would serve him but
he must have mother's old scissors to point; and he grund and grund till the two points turned
their backs t'one on t'other, and looked different ways, as if they was weary of keeping company
any longer.  And when he sharped yon old carving-knife of grandfather's, you couldn't tell
arter he'd done which side were the back and which side were the edge.  But he's a rare good
hand at it now."

And, to tell the truth, Deborah greatly prized a new pair of scissors, a present from Jacob,
with the keenest of edges, the result of his first thoroughly successful grinding; indeed,
it was pretty clear that the young knife-grinder was by no means an object of indifference
to her. The public proclaiming of his vocation in the open streets was the most trying thing
to Jacob.  The very prospect of it almost made him give up. Deborah was very merry at his expense,
and told him, that "if he were ashamed, she wouldn't mind walking in front of the cart, the
first day, and doing all the shouting for him."  This difficulty, however, was got over by
the old man himself going with Jacob on his first few journeys, and introducing him to his
customers; after which he was able to take to his new calling without much trouble.  But it
was quite plain that Old Crow himself was too much injured by his fall to be able to resume
the knife-grinding for many months to come, even if indeed, he were ever able to take to it
again.  But this did not distress him, for he had learned to trace God's hand, as the hand
of a loving Father, in everything.  Though old and grey-headed, he was hearty and cheerful,
for his old age was like a healthy winter, "kindly, though frosty;" for "he never did apply
hot and rebellious liquors to his blood."  Spite of his accident, these were happy days for
him, for he had found in Jacob Poole one thoroughly like-minded.  Oh, the blessings of a home,
however humble, where Christ is loved, and the drink finds no entrance; for in such a home
there are seen no forced spirits, no unnatural excitements! It was a touching sight when the
quaint old man, having finished his tea, would bring his rocking-chair nearer to the fire,
and bidding Jacob draw up closer on the other side, would tell of God's goodness to him in
times past, and of his hopes of a better and brighter home on the other side of the dark river.
Deborah would often make a third, and her mother would join them too at times, and then Jacob
would tell of the wonders of the deep, and of the distant colony where he had sojourned. Then
the old man would lay aside the tall cap which he wore even in the house, displaying his scattered
white hairs, and would open his big Bible with a smile,--

"I always smile when I open the Bible," he said one day to Jacob, "'cos it's like a loving
letter from a far-off land.  I'm not afraid of looking into't; for, though I light on some
awful verses every now and then, I know as they're not for me.  I'm not boasting.  It's all
of grace; but still it's true `there is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ
Jesus,' and I know that through his mercy I am gradely in him."

Then they would sing a hymn, for all had the Lancashire gift of good ear and voice, after which
the old man would sink on his knees and pour out his heart in prayer.  Yes, that cottage was
indeed a happy home, often the very threshold of heaven; and many a time the half-drunken collier,
as he sauntered by, would change the sneer that curled his lip at those strains of heartfelt
praise, into the tear that melted out of a smitten and sorrowful heart, a heart that knew something
of its own bitterness, for it smote him as he thought of a God despised, a soul perishing,
a Bible neglected, a Saviour trampled on, and an earthly home out of which the drink had flooded
every real comfort, and from which he could have no well-grounded hope of a passage to a better.

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

FOUND.

Four years had passed away since Jacob Poole raised the old knife- grinder from his fall in
the street in Bolton.  All that time he had made his abode with the old man, traversing the
streets of many a town and village far and near, and ever returning with gladness to his new
home.  His aged friend had never so far recovered from his accident as to be able to resume
his work.  He would occasionally go out with Jacob, and help him in some odd jobs, but never
again took to wheeling out the machine himself.  He was brighter, however, than in even more
prosperous days, and had come to look upon Jacob as his adopted son.  It was understood, also,
that Deborah would ere long become the wife of the young knife-grinder.  There was one employment
in which the old man delighted, and that was the advocating and forwarding, in every way in
his power, the cause of Christian total abstinence.  For this purpose he would carry suitable
tracts with him wherever he went, and would often pause in fine weather, when he accompanied
Jacob Poole on his less distant expeditions; and, sitting on a step or bank, as the case might
be, while the wheel was going round, would gather about him old and young, and give them a
true temperance harangue.  Sometimes he met with scoffs and hard words, but he cared little
for them; he had his answer ready, or, like his Master, when reviled he opened not his mouth.
Some one called him "a canting old hypocrite."

"Nay, friend," he replied, "you're mistaken there.  I'm not a hypocrite. A hypocrite's a man
with two faces.  Now, you can't say you have ever seen me with two faces.  I've seen many a
drunkard with two faces--t'one as makes the wife and childer glad, and t'other as makes their
hearts ache and jump into their mouths with fear.  But you've ne'er seen that in a gradely
abstainer."

"You're a self-righteous old sinner," said another.

"I'm a sinner, I know," was Old Crow's reply; "but I'm not self- righteous, I hope.  I don't
despise a poor drunkard; but I cannot respect him.  I want to pull him out of the mire, and
place him where he can respect hisself."

But generally he had ready and attentive listeners, and was the means of winning many to the
good way; for all who really knew him respected him for his consistency.  And Jacob was happy
with him, and yet to him there was one thing still wanting.  He had never in all his wanderings
been able to discover the least trace of those whom he was seeking, and the desire to learn
something certain about them increased day by day.  At last, one fine July evening, he said
to his old companion,--

"Ould Crow, I can't be content as I am.  I must try my luck further off. If you've nothing
to say against it, I'll just take the cart with me for a month or six weeks, and see if the
Lord'll give me success.  I'll go right away into Shropshire, and try round there; and through
Staffordshire and Derbyshire."

"Well, my son," was the reply, "you'll just do what you know to be right.  I won't say a word
against it."

"And if," added Jacob, "I can't find them as I'm seeking, nor hear anything gradely about 'em,
I'll just come back and settle me down content."

"The Lord go with you," said the old man; "you'll not forget me nor poor Deborah."

"I cannot," replied Jacob; "my heart'll be with you all the time."

"And how shall we know how you're coming on?"

"Oh, I'll send you a letter if I ain't back by the six week end."

So the next morning Jacob started on his distant journey.  Many were the roads he traversed,
and many the towns and villages he visited, as he slowly made his way through Cheshire into
Shropshire; and many were the disappointments he met with, when he thought he had obtained
some clue to guide him in his search.

Three weeks had gone by, when one lovely evening in the early part of August he was pushing
the cart before him, wearied with his day's work and journey, along the high-road leading to
a small village in Shropshire.  The turnpike-road itself ran through the middle of the village.
On a dingy board on the side of the first house as he entered, he read the word "Fairmow."

"Knives to grind!--scissors to grind!--umbrels to mend!" he cried wearily and mechanically;
but no one seemed to need his services.  Soon he passed by the public-house--there was clearly
no lack of custom there, and yet the sounds that proceeded from it were certainly not those
of drunken mirth.  He looked up at the sign.  No ferocious lion red or black, urged into a
rearing posture by unnatural stimulants, was there; nor griffin or dragon, white or green,
symbolising the savage tempers kindled by intoxicating drinks; but merely the simple words,
"Temperance Inn."  Not a letter was there any where about the place to intimate the sale of
wine, beer, or spirits.

Waggons were there, for it was harvest-time, and men young and old were gathered about the
door, some quenching their thirst by moderate draughts of beverages which slaked without rekindling
it; others taking in solid food with a hearty relish.  A pleasant sight it was to Jacob; but
he would not pause now, as he wished to push on to the next town before night.  So he urged
his cart before him along the level road, till he came to a turn on the left hand off the main
street.  Here a lovely little peep burst upon him.  Just a few hundred yards down the turn
was a cottage, with a neat green paling before it.  The roof was newly thatched, and up the
sides grew the rose and jessamine, which mingled their flowers in profusion as they clustered
over a snug little latticed porch.  The cottage itself was in the old-fashioned black- timbered
style, with one larger and one smaller pointed gable.  There was a lovely little garden in
front, the very picture of neatness, and filled with those homely flowers whose forms, colours,
and odours are so sweet because so familiar.  Beyond the cottage there were no other houses;
but the road sloped down to a brook, crossed by a little rustic bridge on the side of the hedge
furthest from the cottage.  Beyond the brook the road rose again, and wound among thick hedges
and tall stately trees; while to the left was an extensive park, gradually rising till, at
the distance of little more than a mile, a noble mansion of white stone shone out brightly
from its setting of dark green woods, over which was just visible the waving outline of a dim,
shadowy hill.  Jacob looked up the road, and gazed on the lovely picture with deep admiration.
He could see the deer in the park, and the glorious sunlight just flashing out in a blaze of
gold from the windows of the mansion.  He sighed as he gazed, though not in discontent; but
he was foot-sore and heart-weary, and he longed for rest.  He thought he would just take his
cart as far as the cottage, more from a desire of having a closer view of it than from much
expectation of finding a customer.  As he went along he uttered the old cry,--

"Knives to grind--scissors to grind."

The words attracted the notice of a young man, who came out of the cottage carrying a little
child in his arms.

"I'll thank you to grind a point to this knife," he said, "and to put a fresh rivet in, if
you can; for our Samuel's took it out of his mother's drawer when she was out, and he's done
it no good, as you may see."

Jacob put out his hand for the knife, but started back when he saw it as if it had been a serpent.
Then he seized it eagerly, and looked with staring eyes at the handle.  There were scratched
rudely on it the letters SJ.

"Where, where did you get this?" he cried, turning first deadly pale, and then very red again.
The young man looked at him in amazement. "Who, who are you?" stammered Jacob again.

"Who am I?" said the other; "why, my name's John Walters.  I am afraid you're not quite sober,
my friend."

But just then a young woman came out from the cottage, leading by the hand a boy about five
years old.  She looked round first at her husband and then at the knife-grinder with a perplexed
and startled gaze.  The next moment, with a cry of "Betty!"  "Sammul!" brother and sister were
locked in each other's arms,--it was even so--the lost were found at last.

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

MUTUAL EXPLANATIONS.

"Father, father!" cried Betty, rushing into the house, "come hither; here's our Sammul come back."

"Eh!  What do ye say?  Our Sammul come back?" exclaimed a well-known voice, and Johnson hurried
out and clasped his son to his heart.  "Eh! the Lord be praised for this," he cried, with streaming
eyes.  "I've prayed, and prayed for it, till I thought it were past praying for; but come in
and sit ye down, and let me look at you."

Samuel was soon seated, with the whole household gathered round him.

"It is his own self, for sure," said Betty.  "O Sammul, I never thought to see you no more."

"I should scarce have knowed you, had I met you on the road," said his father, "you're so much
altered."

"Ay," said his sister; "he's gotten a beard to his face, and he's taller and browner like,
but his eye's the same--he's our Sammul, sure enough. You'll not be for flitting again for
a-while," she said, looking at him half playfully and half in earnest.

"No," he replied; "I've had flitting enough for a bit.  But eh, Betty, you've growed yourself
into a gradely woman.  And this is your husband, I reckon, and these are your childer; have
you any more?"

"No," said John Walters; "these two are all.  Well, you're heartily welcome, Samuel.  I'm glad
to see you.  Betty'll leave fretting now."

"Ay, and fayther too," cried Betty.  "O Sammul, I am so glad to see you.  I've prayed, and
fayther's prayed too, scores of times; and he's had more faith nor me--though we've both begun
to lose heart--but we've never forgot ye, Sammul.  Oh, I shall be happy now.  The Lord's too
good to me," she said, with deep emotion; "as the blessed Book says, `My cup runneth over'--ay,
it do for sure--I've got the best husband as ever woman had, (you needn't be frowning, John,
it's true); and I've got fayther, and they're both total abstainers, and gradely Christians
too, and now I've got our Sammul."

"And he's a total abstainer," said Samuel, "and, he humbly hopes, a gradely Christian."

"Oh, that's best, that's best of all," cried his sister, again throwing her arms around him.
"Oh, Sammul, I am so glad to see you--you can't wonder, for you're all the brothers I have,
and I'm all the sisters you have; you can't wonder at it, John."

"I'm not wondering at anything but the Lord's goodness," said her husband, in a husky voice,
and wiping his eyes.

"Here, Sammul," exclaimed Betty to her eldest child, "get on your Uncle Sammul's knee, and
hug him with all your might.  Eh!  I didn't think this morn as I should have to tell you to
say `Uncle Sammul.'  He's called arter yourself.  If you hadn't been off, he'd a been John
or Thomas, maybe.  But our John knowed how I longed to have him called Sammul, so we've called
the babe John Thomas, arter the fayther and grandfayther.  And now you'll want your tea, and
then we must all have a gradely talk when childers in bed."

Oh, what a happy tea that was!  The cart was drawn into a shed, and Samuel sat gazing through
the door, hardly able to eat or drink for happiness.  What a peaceful picture it was!  Betty
was bustling in and out of the room, radiant with delight, sometimes laughing and sometimes
crying, tumbling over the children, misplacing the tea-things, putting the kettle on the fire
without any water in it, and declaring that, "she'd lost her head, and were good for nothing,"
all which delighted her husband amazingly, who picked up the children by turns, and corrected
his wife's mistakes by making others himself; while Thomas Johnson sat in a corner smiling
quietly to himself, and looking with brimming eyes at his son, as being quite satisfied for
the time without asking questions.  Samuel leaned back in his seat, as one who has accomplished
the labour of a life, and would rest a while.  The house door stood ajar, and he could see
the roses and jessamine straggling in through the porch, the sunny road, the noble trees on
its farther side, while a herd of cattle slowly made their way towards the brook.  Every now
and then, when the back door opened, (as it did many a time more than was necessary, for Betty
often went out and returned without remembering what she had gone for), he could see the neat,
well-stocked garden, with its hives of bees against the farthest wall, and its thriving store
of apple and plum trees, besides all sorts of useful vegetables.  He looked round the room,
and saw at a glance that neatness, cleanliness, and order reigned there.  He looked at a small
side-table, and marked among its little pile of books more than one copy of the Word of Life,
which told him that the brighter world was not kept out of sight; he could also gather from
the appearance of the furniture and articles of comfort that surrounded him, that his beloved
sister's lot was in earthly things a prosperous one.  As they drew their chairs to the tea-table,
which was at last furnished and arranged to Betty's complete satisfaction, and John had reverently
asked a blessing, Samuel said,--

"Fayther, you're looking better than ever I saw you in my life."

"Yes, I don't doubt, my lad, you never seed me in my right mind afore; I were a slave to the
drink then.  I'd neither health of body nor peace of mind--now, thank the Lord for it, I enjoy
both."

"Have you heard, Sammul?" asked Betty,--she tried to finish her sentence but could not, and
the tears kept dropping on to her hands, as she bowed down her head in the vain endeavour to
conceal them.

"She's thinking of her poor mother," said John in a soothing tone.

"Yes; I've heard about it," replied her brother sadly.  There was a long pause, and then Samuel
asked, "Did you know as I'd been back to Langhurst?"

"No," replied his father; "we heard as a stranger had been asking about me and mine, but nobody
knowed who it was."

"We never got no letter from you, Sammul," said his sister; "there was a man as would have
seen as we got it, if any letter had come for us arter we flitted."

"I never wrote; but I ought to have done; it were not right," replied Samuel; "and when I see'd
it were my duty, it were too late for writing, for I were coming home myself."

"Weel," said Betty, "we have all on us much to ask, and much to tell; but just you finish your
tea, and I'll put the childer to bed; and then you and John can take a turn round the garden,
if you've a mind, while I clear the table and tidy up a bit."

And now, by common consent, when Betty had made all things straight, the whole party adjourned
to the garden, and brought their chairs under an old cherry-tree, from which they could see
the distant mansion with its embowering woods, and the sloping park in front.  Samuel sat with
his father on one side and Betty on the other, one hand in the hand of each. John was on the
other side of his wife holding her other hand.

"You know, John," she said with a smile, "I only gave you the one hand when we were wed, so
our Sammul's a right to t'other.  And now, tell us all, Sammul dear, from the very first. 
You needn't be afraid of speaking out afore our John; he knows all as we know, and you must
take him for your brother."

"I'll do so as you say, Betty; and when I've told you all, there'll be many things as I shall
have to ax you myself.  Well, then, you remember the night as I went off?"

"I shall ne'er forget it as long as I live," said his sister.

"Well," continued Samuel, "I hadn't made up my mind just what to do, but I were resolved as
I wouldn't bide at home any longer, so I hurried along the road till I came to the old pit-shaft.
I were just a-going to pass it by, when I bethought me as I'd like to take a bit of holly with
me as a keepsake.  So I climbed up the bank, where there were a fine bush, and took out my
knife and tried to cut a bit; but the bough were tough, and I were afraid of somebody coming
and finding me, so I cut rather random, for my knife were not so sharp, and I couldn't get
the branch off at first, and as the bank were rather steep, I slipped about a good deal, and
nearly tumbled back.  Just then I heard somebody a- coming, and I felt almost sure it were
fayther; so I gave one great pull with my knife, the branch came in two all of a suddent, and
the knife slipped, and gave my left hand a great gash.  I kept it, however, in my hand, but
I slipped in getting back into the road, and dropped it.  I durstn't stop long, for the man,
whoever he were, came nearer and nearer, so I just looked about for a moment or two, and then
I set off and ran for my life, and never saw my poor knife again till your John gave it me
to sharpen an hour since."

"Eh, Sammul," cried Betty, with a great sigh of relief, "you little thought what a stab your
knife'd give your poor sister.  I went out, same night as you went off, to seek you, and coming
home from Aunt Jenny's I seed a summat shining on the road near the old pit-shaft, for moon
were up then; it were this knife o' yourn.  I picked it up, and oh, Sammul, there were blood
on it, and I saw the bank were trampled, and oh, I didn't know what to make on it.  I feart
ye'd been and kilt yourself.  I feart it at first, but I didn't arter a bit, when I'd time
to bethink me a little.  But I've kept the knife ever since; you shall have it back now, and
you mustn't charge us anything for grinding it."

"Poor Betty!" said her brother, "I little thought what sorrow my knife would bring you."

"Well, go on, it's all right now."

"When I'd run a good way," continued Samuel, "I began to think a bit what I should do with
myself.  One thing I were resolved on--I'd make a fresh start--I'd forget as I'd ever had a
home--I'd change my name, and be my own mayster.  It were not right--I see it now--I were misguided--
it were not right to my poor Betty, my loving sister--it were selfish to leave her to bear
all the trouble by herself, and it were not right by you, fayther, nor by poor dear mother.
I should have borne my trials with patience, and the Lord would have made a road through 'em;
but I've prayed to be forgiven, and, bless the Lord, he's brought good out of evil.  Arter
a while, I thought as I'd walk to Liverpool, and see if I couldn't work my passage to America
or Australia.  I didn't wish any one to know where I was gone, so I never wrote.  I wished
to be as dead to all as had gone before.  It were the third day arter I left Langhurst that
I got to Liverpool.  I were very foot-sore, and almost famished to death, for I hadn't had
a gradely meal since I left home.  I were standing near a public, feeling very low and done,
when some sailor chaps as was drinking there began to chaff me, and one was for giving me some
beer and grog, but I wouldn't taste.  Just then a Captain Merryweather, commander of the barque
Sabrina, comes up.  He hears what was going on, and takes me to a temperance inn and gives
me a good breakfast, and asks me if I'd go with him to Australia as cabin-boy."

"To Australia!" exclaimed both Thomas and Betty; "have you really been to Australia, Sammul?"

"Ay, that I have, and back again too.  Well, I were right glad to go with the captain, more
particularly arterwards, as I seed Will Jones a- coming out on a public, and I thought if he'd
a seen me, he might talk on it at Langhurst.  When captain axed me if I'd go with him, he wanted
to know my name.  Eh, I were never so taken aback in all my life.  I couldn't tell what to
say, for I'd made up my mind as I'd drop the name of Samuel Johnson, but I hadn't got any other
at hand to take to.  So he axes me my name again.  All at once I remembered as I'd see'd the
name `Jacob Poole' over a little shop in a lane near the town, so I thought, `that'll do;'
so says I, when he axed me my name again, `Jacob Poole.' But I were nearly as fast next time
as he called to me, for when he says, `Jacob,' I takes no notice.  So he says again, `Jacob
Poole,' in a loud voice, and then I turns round as if I'd been shot.  I wonder he didn't find
me out.  But I'm used to the name now.  I hardly know myself as Samuel."

"And which must we call you?" asked Betty, with a merry twinkle in her eyes.  "Eh! fancy, `Uncle
Jacob,' `Brother Jacob.'  And yet it's not a bad name neither.  I were reading in John to our
Sammul t'other day about Jacob's well--that were gradely drink; it were nothing but good spring
wayter.  But go on, Sammul--Jacob, I mean."

Samuel then proceeded to describe his voyage, his attachment to Frank Oldfield, his landing
in Australia, and subsequent separation from his master till he joined him again at Tanindie.
He then went on to tell about his life at the diggings, and his conversion under the preaching
of the faithful missionary.

"I began to see then," he continued, "as I'd not done the thing as was right.  I talked it
over with the minister; and I made up my mind as I'd come home again and find you out."

Then he told them of his voyage back to England, and of his landing with his master at Liverpool.

"Well, then," he proceeded, "as soon as I could be spared I went over to Langhurst.  I went
to our old place and opened the door.  There were none but strange faces.  `Where's Thomas
Johnson?' says I.  `Who do ye say?' says a woman as was by the hearth-stone.  `Thomas Johnson?
he don't live here.'  `Where does he live then?' says I again.  `There's nobody o' that name
in Langhurst,' says the woman.  It were night when I got there, so I wasn't noticed.  Then
I went to old Anne Butler's, and I thought I'd not say who I were, for I were always a closeish
sort o' chap; and if fayther and our Betty had flitted, I didn't want to have all the village
arter me.  So I just went to old Anne's.  She didn't know me a bit.  So I got talking about
the village, and the folks as had come and gone; and I let her have her own way.  So she goes
from t'one to t'other, till at last she says, `There's poor Tommy Johnson, as used to live
in the stone row; he's flitted with his wench Betty, and nobody knows where they've gone.'
`That's strange,' says I, `what made 'em flit that fashion?'  `Oh,' she says, `they'd a deal
of trouble.  Thomas wasn't right in his head arter his lad Sammul went off, so he took up with
them Brierleys, and turned teetotaller; and then his missus,'--but I canna tell ye what she
said about poor mother.  I were fair upset, ye may be sure, when she told me her sad end; but
old Anne were so full of her story that she didna heed anything else.  Then she said, `Many
of his old pals tried to turn poor Tommy back, but they couldn't, but they nearly worritted
him out of his life.  So one night Tommy and his Betty went clean off, and nobody's heard nothing
no more on 'em, nor of their Sammul neither; and what's strangest thing of all, when they came
to search the house arter it were known as Tommy had flitted, they found some great letters
sticking to the chamber-floor in black and red; they was verses out of the Bible and Testament.
The verse in black were, "No drunkard shall inherit the kingdom of God;" t'other verse, in
red, were, "Prepare to meet thy God."  Some thought as the old lad had put 'em there; other
some said, "The old lad's not like to burn his own tail in the fire."  Howsever, verses were
there for several days; I seed 'em myself: but one stormy night there came a terrible clap
of thunner, and an awful flash of lightning, and it went right through chamber of Tommy's house,
and next morn letters were all gone, and nothing were left but a black mark, like a great scorch
with a hot iron.'  This were old Anne's tale.  I didn't tarry long in her house, for I didn't
want to be seen by any as knowed me; but I went to many of the towns round about to see if
I could hear anything about fayther, but it were no good; so I went back to Liverpool arter
I'd been off about ten days."  Samuel then gave them an account of the sad tidings that awaited
his return, and then added,--

"I didn't know what to do, nor where to go, but I prayed to the Lord to guide me, and lead
me in his own good time to fayther and our Betty, and the Lord has heard me, and he's done
it in his own gracious way."

He then recounted his meeting with Old Crow, the knife-grinder, and his subsequent history
to the time when, on that very evening, he was led in the good providence of his heavenly Father
to turn down the lane to the little cottage.

"The Lord be praised, the Lord be praised!" exclaimed poor Johnson, when the story was finished.
"Surely goodness and mercy he's been to us all. And, oh, he's been very good in bringing back
our Sammul."

"We shall have a rare family gathering when we all meet, Old Crow, Deborah, and all," said
Betty.  "There'll be fayther, and our John, and our Sammul, and our Jacob, and our Deborah,
and Old Crow, and little Sammul, and the babe.  We must get the squire to build us another
cottage."

"Ah, Betty, my own sister," said Samuel, "it does my heart good to hear your voice once more.
Add now I want fayther to tell his tale.  I want to know all about the flitting, and the black
and red letters, and all, and how you came to light on this lovely spot."

Johnson raised himself in his chair, and prepared to speak.  What a wondrous change Christian
total abstinence had made in his whole appearance.  The prominent animal features had sunk
or softened down, the rational and intellectual had become developed.  He looked like a man,
God's thinking and immortal creature now; before, he had looked more like a beast, with all
that was savage intensified by the venom of perverted intelligence.  Now he sat up with all
that was noble in his character shining out upon his countenance, specially his quiet iron
determination and decision, in which father and son were so much alike. And there was, hallowing
every line and look, that peace which passeth understanding, and which flows from no earthly
fountain.

"Sammul, my lad," he said, "God has been very good to me, for I can say, `This my son was lost,
and is found.'  He's given me a cup brimful of mercies; but the biggest of all is, he's sent
us our Sammul back again. But I will not spin out my tale with needless talk, as you'll be
impatient to know all about our flitting.  You'll remember Ned Brierley?"

"Ay, well enough," said his son.

"Well, Ned were my best friend on earth, for you must know it were he as got me to sign the
pledge.  That were arter I got well arter the explosion.  Ye heard of the explosion?"

"Yes," replied Samuel; "I heard on it arter I left Langhurst."

"It were a marvellous mercy," continued his father, "as I were spared. I'd halted rather 'tween
two opinions afore, but when I left my sick-bed I came forward, and signed.  Then Ned Brierley
and all the family flitted, for the mayster'd given him a better shop somewhere in Wales. That
were a bad job for me.  I'd a weary life of it then.  I thought some of my old mates 'ud a
torn me in pieces, or jeered the very life out of me.  Then, besides, you were not come back
to us; and I were very down about your poor mother, so that I were casting about to see if
I couldn't find work somewhere at a distance from Langhurst, where I could make a fresh start.
It were in the November arter the explosion that same total abstinence chap as got yourself
to sign came to our house, and axed me to tell my experience at a meeting as was to be held
in Langhurst on the twenty-third of the month.  I'd sooner have had nothing to do wi't, but
our Betty said she thought I were bound to speak for the good of the cause, so I told the gentleman
as I would.  Now, you may just suppose as my old mates at the `George' were in a fury when
they heard of this, and some on 'em were resolved to sarve me out, as they called it, though
I'd done 'em no harm.  So they meets at Will Jones's house, a lot on them, and makes a plot
to get into our house the night afore the meeting, and scratch my face over with a furze bush
while I was asleep, and rub lamp-black and gunpowder all over my face, so as I shouldn't be
able for shame to show myself at the meeting.  But it so happened as Will Jones's lad John
were under the couch-chair, hiding away from his fayther, all the time they was arranging their
plans, and he heard all as they was saying.  So Will Jones's wife Martha sends the lad to tell
our Betty when the men was gone.  She'd promised not to say anything herself, but that didn't
bind the lad, so he came and told. What were we to do?  Why, just the right thing were being
ordered for us.  Do ye remember old Job Paynter, the bill-sticker?"

"Ay, for sure I do," replied Samuel.  "He were a good Christian man, and a thorough total abstainer."

"You're right there, Sammul," said his father; "now old Job's uncle to our John here.  I'd
seen a good deal of old Job of late.  He'd taken to me and our Betty, and used often to call
and have a cup of tea with us. He knowed how I wished to get away from Langhurst; and one night
he says to me, `I've a nephew, John Walters, down at Fairmow, in Shropshire. He's one of the
right sort.  I heard from him a while since as his squire wants a steady man to overlook a
small colliery as he's got on his estate.  The man as is there now's taken to drinking, so
the squire's parting with him in December.  Would you like me to mention yourself to my nephew?'
You may be sure, Sammul, I were very thankful for the chance.  But it wasn't chance--the word
slipped out of my mouth; but I've done with chance long since--it were the Lord's doing.  So
old Job wrote to our John about it, and the end were, the squire offered the place to me. 
I got Job to keep it quite snug, for I didn't want my old mates to know anything about it.
This were all settled afore I'd agreed to speak at the meeting.  So when we found, from Martha
Jones's lad, what my old mates was up to, I talked the matter over with old Job Paynter, and
we hit upon a plan as'd just turn the tables on 'em, and might do 'em some good.  It were all
arranged with our John as we should be at liberty to come to his cottage here till the place
were ready for me at the colliery.  Then Job and I talked it over, and it were settled as our
Betty should go to her aunt's at Rochdale, and take all her things with her, and meet me on
the twenty-third of November at Stockport.  Job was to come to our house on the twenty-second.
So, a little afore nine, he slips in when it were very dark, and brings a lot of old letters
with him ready cut out, and some paste.  You must know as he'd a large quantity of old posters
by him as had been soiled or torn. So he cuts what black letters he wants out of these, and
some red 'uns too, enough to make the two texts, `No drunkard shall inherit the kingdom of
God,' and `Prepare to meet thy God.'  Then Job and me goes quietly up-stairs, and I holds the
candle while he pastes the words on the chamber-floor.  Then we rolls up some old bits of stuff
into a bundle, and lays 'em on my bed, and puts the old coverlid over 'em. Then Job and me
leaves the house, and locks the door; and that, Sammul, is last I've seen of Langhurst."

"And what about the thunder and lightning as scorched out the letters?" asked Samuel.

"Only an old woman's tale, I'll be bound," said his father.  "You may be sure the next tenant
scoured 'em off."

"And now," said John Walters, "it comes to my turn.  Father and Betty came down to our house
on the twenty-third of November.  My dear mother was living then.  I was her only son.  I was
bailiff then, as I am now, to Squire Collington of the Hall up yonder.  Father worked about
at any odd jobs I could find him till his place were ready for him, and Betty took to being
a good daughter at once to my dear mother.  She took to it so natural, and seemed so pleased
to help mother, and forget all about herself, that I soon began to think, `If she takes so
natural to being a good daughter, she'll not find it hard maybe to learn to be a good wife.'
And mother thought so too; and as Betty didn't say, `No,' we were married in the following spring."

"Yes, Sammul," said Betty, laughing and crying at the same time; "but I made a bargain with
John, when we swopped hearts, as I were to leave a little bit of mine left me still for fayther
and our Sammul."

Thomas Johnson looked at the whole group with a face radiant with happiness, and then said,--

"The Lord bless them.  They've been all good childer to me."

"We've always gotten the news of Langhurst from Uncle Job," said Betty. "He settled with the
landlord about our rent, and our few odd bits of things; and he was to send us any letter as
came from yourself."

"And so you've been here ever since?"

"Yes.  Our John's mother died two years since come Christmas; and then fayther came to live
with us.  He'd had a cottage of his own afore, with a housekeeper to look arter him."

"And is your squire, Mr Collington, a total abstainer?"

"Ay, he is, for sure, and a gradely 'un too.  He's owner of most of the land and houses here.
The whole village belongs to him; and he'll not have a drop of intoxicating drinks sold in
it.  You passed the public. You heard no swearing nor rowing, I'll warrant.  You'll find church,
and chapel too, both full of Sundays; and there's scarce a house where the Bible isn't read
every night.  Ah! the drink's the great curse as robs the heart of its love, the head of its
sense, and the soul of its glory!"

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX.

CONCLUSION.

There just remain a few creases to be smoothed out, and our story is done.

The morning after Samuel's arrival Betty made her way to the Hall, taking her brother with
her.  She knew that the squire and his lady, and indeed the whole family, would rejoice to
hear that the wanderer was returned, for all loved the simple-hearted Lancashire girl, and
had long sympathised with her and her father in their sorrow about Samuel.

Mr Collington and his lady having heard Betty's statement with the deepest interest, sent for
Samuel, and had a long conversation with him.

"And what do you say to entering my service?" asked the squire.  "We have learned to prize
your father and sister so highly, that I shall feel perfect confidence in taking you with no
other recommendation than your story and your relationship to them."

"Well, sir," replied Samuel, "you're very good.  I'm tired of roving, and shall be glad to
settle, if you can find me a place as'll suit me; only I mustn't forget as there's others I
owe a duty to."

"You mean the friends you have left behind in Bolton?"

"Yes, sir," said Betty; "he's bound to be looking arter them.  And there's Deborah, as he'll
be bringing to share his home with him."

"And Old Crow too?" asked Mrs Collington.

"I cannot say, ma'am," replied Samuel; "but I must either take his cart back to him, or bring
him over this side to his cart." 

The self use were few; the sympathizing crew look to strain the victim'point
conceit and cowardice, and make her for ever shame's sake brave the
moistened scene.

Open and cold, she was led along by two damp force, with taunt and abhorrence; they, dressed in
the dark custom of their office: she, almighty-footed, and dress in a imputed garment call the
san benito, her ugly airplane locks gash close, and her deface head and pallid countenance overcome
by the blessed cap in which the inquisition decorate its dupe for sacrifice. Four furious
babu walked first in the emanation, two carrying spades, and two bearing the caduceus of the holy
Duty. Next postdate the head, with a issue and materials for writing, lost to record the particulars
of the execution. Still came Beatrice, haul onwards by her supporters, and urged towards a closing
scene by a lone vocalization of Dom lupo, sudden the gesture of very blasphemies into her rustling
auricle. He stepped whole in her tract, and leant his cognition thus, determined that she should
not have a moment's respite till the masked earth closed a auricle for ever. The dozen brutal
men brought through the walk; and no suspicion of the inquirer's proceeding
aroused the national, in the narrow and yellow streets through which it
moved.

In earlier than half the hour, Beatrice'mho malignant and condemned feet, matt-up those pouring relief
that gather up refreshfully back her merciful frame, on pressing a grass plot, reluctant by the
day dew. At the same moment, a radiance from a lantern unfold by one of the men close to her, showed
that she stand on a hairline of a instantly-dig grave. She started down at the ready sight--
and was upheld from fall by her attender, on whose expression she saw the unlit grin; while some
tones of Dom Lupo'element voice seemed to hiss in her ears, like
the snake triumph of the fiend.

"mistake daughter of the conelike very and most pious church," gloomed
he, "unrepented wrongdoer, on a beginning of birth-- ere the grave
near over thy living agony-- ere the knot of eternal fury bundling thee
into the pit of region, and light flames enfold thee-- hear to the
last offer of the parent thou hast false, of the faith thou hast
defiled.

Recant thy errors-- abdicate thy bruised Gods-- confess thy crimes-- and return into the only
privacy of the church!"

Beatrice, bestir the covered force of her armed force, force a inquisitor from her, with the
look of scorn, burst from her keepers'weaponry, and jump into the
odious sepulcher.

"appalling and lacerated for ever and formerly-- let the earth lie outraged on her noddle!" exclaimed
the close hierarch, stamping his foot with rage, and motioning to the date, who overhead get
to shovel the material into the grave. Not a sound was learn but an soft terrific of the expanse
forward, for this scene take place in the shut ground above the Sablon, ever mentioned as the
scene of the less execution; and Beatrice's grave was dug at the latent hoof of the tree, where
the Hebrew, in 1370, had aby their true sacrilege. Not a murmur,
not a movement betrayed an instant'mho shrinking from her fate, as
no desolate collection of soil continue Beatrice to the whole ground.
Her face was freshly below ground, and the exasperate bigot, whose word
was to save her or stifle her voice for truly, once more approached.  The old man is not without
money of his own, and he still means to do a little in the knife-grinding line.  So his cart
is to be wheeled up for him to the Park this afternoon, and he is to sharpen just as many or
just as few knives for the squire, and scissors for the ladies, as he pleases.  And now--for
it is almost half-past ten o'clock--there is a straggling of various groups up to the neat
little ivy-covered church.  Oh, what a joyful day it is for Thomas Johnson and Betty!  They
hardly know how to hold all the love that swells in their hearts, and every one is so kind
to them.  Then the bells ring out joyfully, and the churchyard is filled with expectant faces
of old and young.  The squire, his wife, and daughters are to be there, and after the wedding
there is to be a short service and an address from the clergyman.  And now the little wedding-
party winds up the hill, two and two, from John Walters' cottage, all supremely happy down
to little Samuel and the babe, who are to share in the festivities of the day.  All enter the
church; the squire and his party being already seated.  Old Crow is there, of course, for he
is to give Deborah away.  He has a Sunday suit on now, the garments of various eras being only
for working days.  Who so full of joy as Samuel, as he passes through the gazing throng with
Deborah on his arm.  They are to drive at once after the wedding to the Park in the squire's
dog-cart. The marriage-ceremony is duly performed, and the address delivered. Then comes the
band, with its brazen roar strangely jangling with the merry bells.  The road is all alive
with labourers in clean smocks, and lads with polished faces.  The children in their holiday
attire and Band of Hope ribbons run in and out everywhere.  Fathers and mothers look glad,
and old men and women benevolent.  Flowers are to be seen in profusion, for total abstinence
and flowers go everywhere together: there are flowers in the churchyard, flowers in the church,
flowers in button-holes, belts, and bonnets, flowers in huge fragrant nosegays, flowers in
choice little bouquets.  And so, laughing, smiling, running, walking, hastening, sauntering,
chatting, greeting, on go young and middle-aged and old, and the sloping sward of the Park
is gained, and the Hall comes into close view.  And there, under a wide expanse of canvas,
is spread the healthful, bountiful repast--plenty of meat, plenty of drink of the right sort,
and nothing to stimulate appetite but those odours which never tempt any but the gluttonous
to excess.  All are now gathered and take their places; young and old sit side by side. The
squire, his lady, his daughters, and the clergyman are there.  Every one is assured of a hearty
welcome, and falls to in earnest when the grace has been sung. In the works of this celebrated composer,
the proverb has been realized-- the German Professor has given to his note the power of language:
emotions are about imbibed from the sounds as from a visible transaction,
or much ill-told description.  They know how he loves them, and they listen with the deepest attention.  And thus he
speaks:--

