The White Squall, by John Conroy Hutcheson

Tom is a thirteen year-old whose father is a Naval Officer on the half-pay list.  This dates
the events, for Tom has read two of Captain Marryatt's books, which were published in the 1830s,
while his father would have been recalled to duty in time for the Crimean War, so we'll put
the date down as the 1840s.

The action starts in the West Indies, where Tom's father has bought a property.  Tom has an
accident on his way to meet his father on the way from a short visit to another island.  Tom
is to be sent to an English school, and on his recovery he is taken down to the harbour, and
put in charge of a ship's Captain.

The journey back to England has every misadventure that can be thought of, including a White
Squall, which we would probably today call a Line Squall.  The vessel is capsized.  How do
they recover it?

Eventually they arrive in England. And that is the end of the story, which really is an introduction
to ships for young persons of about thirteen years of age.

It isn't too long, and you'll enjoy it.

THE WHITE SQUALL, BY JOHN CONROY HUTCHESON

CHAPTER ONE.

MOUNT PLEASANT.

"Jake!"

"Dat me, Mass' Tom."

"Have you heard the gun fire yet?"

"Golly, no, Mass' Tom."

"Then you must go up the hill at once and see whether the mail steamer has been signalled or
not.  She ought to have been in sight by now; for, she's been expected since early this morning,
and we're all anxious about the news from England."

"All right, Mass' Tom, me go for see, suah."

"Look alive then, Jake, and lose no more time in starting.  Let me just see how quickly you
can get up to the Battery and back again; and mind, Jake, if the packet should be in, you can
saddle my pony when you return for me to ride into town."

"Berry well, Mass' Tom.  I'se spec, railly for true, um go dere in brace of shakes, an' back
'gain hyar 'fore dat lazy ole niggah Pomp fetch him cutlash out o' stable an' go in bush to
cut him guinea-grass for de hosses.  Golly, dat so, Mass' Tom--see if um don't for suah, yah, yah!"

Jake broke off into a huge guffaw, as he shouted out these hurried words in high glee, laughing
with all that hearty abandon which was such a strong characteristic of his genuine African
nature. Have not found the astrologers in the blue vault star before never seen, and
have not recognized that star Parsondes soul?

- That is true, "replied the king, but I have come to find out, by disclosing some Nanar Babylonians
disgruntled gentlemen, it, furious that claimed Parsondes against him, seven years has sent
emissaries to all parties to secretly take him and taken to his palace,
and there must be Parsondes, or dead, or suffering horrible torments.

-
Ah, sir!

I cried to the point, prostrate at the feet of the King, it is just an evil revenge dreadful.
Allow me to be the instrument of your revenge, and save my dear teacher the captivity in which, if
not dead, is.

The King told me that to this end had called me, and immediately prepare to leave with me the
support due, and his strict orders to answer me with your Nanar life
of the holy man, or his release.

That same day, which was one of the hottest of summer, I went to Susa in a chariot Arab drawn by
four horses. A skilled driver was addressed, and two Ethiopian slaves also accompanied me in
the car, with air on one with an ostrich feather fan, and holding the other on rich ivory varal,
neatly styled, the wide umbrella silk. Four riders, all quivers, bows and arrows, clothing and
covered mesh head with individual bronze helmets, gleaming colors Niel, I followed and gave me greater
authority and decorum. Six scouts, mounted zebra striped and lightning-fast, went before me, to
advertise in the various populations.

Victuals and drink that we brought to supplement the shortcomings of the way, came on the backs
of twenty powerful elephants.

Not to be too wordy, not referring here minutely the events of my trip. Suffice to know that
the tenth day we discovered in the distance the huge walls of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar work and
Nitocris. They were thirty yards in thickness, surrounding the city, forming a zone twenty-two
leagues of circumnavigation, and rose, at the lowest hundred and twenty yards above the earth as
much as the bells of the cathedrals now. Crowned by a tuft of green walls. They were hanging
garden. On the walls and gardens stood out some buildings such as royal palaces, the temple of Belus
and the famous tower of Nimrod, which consisted eight-story, more than two hundred yards high
first. From the top of this tower, it seemed to touch the sky, presumed to treat the gods
sages, secret intelligences or spirits that move the stars. Although still far apart, and confusedly,
thought and to perceive the colossal figures carved and painted on exterior walls of palaces
and temples, those man-headed bulls and men with head lion, those heroes and those warriors, tight
girdles kidneys, that is Oliba Oala and fell in love. The sun reflected from the East on the
gigantic buildings and huge hundred gates of the city, which were of gilt bronze. The glow
given off dazzled eyes. The Euphrates and Tigris, winding and also
injured by lightning the sun shimmered in waves, resembled two gold
ribbons melt forming a loop.

The beaters had gone ahead to announce my arrival. Suddenly we saw up in the broad, fertile
plain between the orchards, gardens and green woods, where it was open the road, a white cloud
which went bigger. Then we saw a dark stain that moving towards us. Soon after came at a run
one of my scouts told me that Nanar approached to greet me with large party. In this dark spot
had enlarged exceedingly, and began to hear distinctly the sound of musical instruments, the
neighing of horses and the clatter of weapons.

We note, finally, the glow of gold and silver, luxury clothes and the magnificence of those
who came to greet us.

So that the driver did goad the horses, and soon I was near the King Nanar that palanquí came in a magnificent
bamboo, sandalwood, pearl and sustained by twelve handsome young men. The King and I got out of
the palanquin of the car, and we welcome and embrace each other with mutual cordiality.

King's robe was of cloth of gold, embroidered with multicolored silk. The embroidery is represented
all the flowers of the field and every bird of the air and all the stars of the ether. Wearing King
no less wonderful a tiara, bangles and bracelets, and earrings two round pearls each size
of a quail egg.

Her hair fell in curls over the back perfumed, and his beard was menudísimos curls, artistic
and symmetrically arranged. Her dress and delicate fragrance him goodbye. Despite my severely,
I could not but admire the fineness of the King Nanar, and confessed, back in myself, that was
the most comm'il faut that I had tried in my life.

The King I stayed in his palace, I gave lavish parties, and I was distracted in such a way that
almost made me forget the object of my mission. We had a concert and a dance, and a dinner
style that gave Baltasar many years later. I did not dare to ask King what he had done in Parsondes.
I did not understand that a man so excellent, that he entertained and regaled guests with elegance
and courtesy that, had been killed or had in hard captivity of my dear teacher.

Finally, one night I plucked up all my restraint and resolve, and told Nanar, on behalf the
King my master, who at the time was going to say where was the virtuoso Parsondes if not want
to lose the kingdom and life.

Nanar, instead of answering, he brought the point to all cantatrice the Bayadere and was in
the palace: it is understood that off-campus, harem or whatever you
call, reserved for their wives.

The Milita such priestesses moved from nine hundred, and were the most beautiful and skillful
that could hardly be found in all Asia. The girls came dancing, singing and playing flute, finger
cymbals and harps, it was a matter of taste to see them and hear them. I sat rapt. Nanar he said,
and here was the more my amazement:

- Behold the holy Parsondes among these women.

Parsondes, come here and greet your former student.

Went out from the center of that crowd one female, were it not for the beard, had could be confused
with women. He wore black painted eyebrows, eyelids blue, in order to shine more eyes and
cheeks covered with lipstick. It was all perfumed her dress was almost as rich as the King, his
effeminate and languid gait, his ears hung exquisite earrings, from his throat a necklace of pearls
encircled her forehead a wreath of flowers. It was the same Parsondes, who threw her arms around
his neck.

- I am, I said, well other than he was before.

Return, if you want to Susa, but do not say I live it, that wizards do not be offended, and to continue
taking a recent example of holiness to appeal. Nanar avenged my rough and unkempt making me
a prisoner under and sending me soaping and scrubbing with a scouring pad. After washing my continued
and perfuming twice a day, giving me a hitch, and forcing me to be with all these bright young
ladies, where I ended up forgetting my Zoroaster and austere preaching, and convinced that in
this life time we must have the best possible without engaging in
the lives of others.

Care Agenos kill the donkey, and none more so than who mixes in censoring
the vices of others, if only it lacks the opportunity to into them,
or when, if they have not fallen, it must be out of ignorance, bad
taste and rustiqueza.

I put my hands on the ears to hear such blasphemy from the mouth of that wise admirable. I was
desperate and angry to see him become a bon vivant, with their points and collar of shameless
rascal, but to avoid scandalous gossip, I decided to advise the school
of wizards to continue arguing that Parsondes had risen to the empyrean,
and to continue venerating his image, without discovering never before
flatly denying that he lived with Parsondes the dancers of Babylon
in the palace of Nanar.

In this awoke from my dream and I turned to find my poor house of
this court.

- I think, added our friend to finish his story, with
less wealth and less cost can the day Nanar seduce upbraideth Parsondes
that immorality and vices, moved, not charity, but of envy.

Those who are not sure of the virtue and fortitude of mind must therefore
be more lenient with Nanar.

Woe to him who boasts virtue without one probadísima!

Blessed are those who practice it and shut up!

THE PREHISTORIC BERMEJINO

OR BLUE SALAMANDER

I

I've always been fond of science. When young, I had a thousand other hobbies, but now I am
old, the prevailing scientific hobby and triumphs in my soul. Unfortunately or Fortunately it
happens to me something very singular. I like science inversely delas truths they are showing
exactly. So I just am interested in sciences, and inaccurate I love. Hence my penchant for
philosophy.

It is the truth that appeals to me, but the effort of speech, of subtlety and imagination which is
used to discover the truth, but undetected.

Once discovered truth, well proven and patent, usually leave me cold. Thus, a gallant young man,
when you go down the street in pursuit of a woman whose walk gracefully
and whose waist you excited, then come on, the look at his face and
sees that it is old, or one-eyed, or have nosed monkey.

The man would also be a cabinet if he knew the truth, but truth to be pretty. It quiet in their
possession and enjoyment would be silly. Better, then, we know little. What matters is knowing
enough to appear or be discerned the mystery, and never enough for an explanation or clarification.
Thus curiosity is aroused, comes alive fantasy and make up theories, dogmas and other witticisms,
entertain and comfort us during our earthly existence, all of which
would lack, being a thousand times more unhappy pure rude if we were
not present the mystery, or if we managed to unravel a pure business
his deep and true meaning.

Among these inexact sciences, which so delight me, there is a very in vogue now, which is subject my
favorite. I speak of prehistory.

I, not knowing whether I am right, divided into two parts this science. One that I would call geological
prehistory, is based on the discovery of skulls, cops, arrows and spears, stew and other gadgets,
involving scholars who are of an age very remote, called stone. This prehistoric amuses me so, and has,
I see far fewer sets you will hear that call philological prehistory, based on the study of
primitive language and documents written in them are preserved.

This is the prehistory makes me more grace.

What variety of opinions!

What acute guesswork! With what art are arranged and sorted facts to fit the system that shapes
every wise! And all civilization born in Egypt, and the Acadia in the center of Asia, and comes
from India, and a continent called Lemuria, which sank in the deep sea, the South, between Africa
and Asia, and from another continent, that between Europe and America and was called Atlantis.

On
the primitive language, as well as the primitive civilization, is still disputed. Up it was
a dispute over whether or were several languages: that is, whether the men began to spread around
the world Alal, or say, still speechless, and in flocks, and then were inventing different
languages ​​in different places, or whether they spoke before the
dispersion and all a single language.

My itching to browse induce me to read how many new books come out on this subject which are not
few, and the more wrong-headed they are, things looks the multitude
of the timid, the more I enjoy these books.

In recent days the books I read are contrary to the Aryans, the Egyptians, of the Semites and other
nations and castes, that went by the civilizing degree superior. If the old books have argued
that civilization, such as sunlight, spread from East to West, these new books claim that
spread in the opposite direction from West to East. All knowledge of the Magi from Iran and
from Shinar, from the Brahmins the banks of the Ganges, the priests of Isis and Osiris, of the initiated
in Samothrace and the towns of Phoenicia and Phrygia, is worth nothing compared to the knowledge
of certain Gauls primitive light whose center was in a prehistoric
Paris.

The Gauls and their bards and druids, poets and priests taught him everything but his own, science
and reflection was not confusing and I remember full of science possessed, in the center of fertile
and beautiful country now called France, before the coming of the Celts, men more primitive and excellent
call or protoscitas Hyperborean.

But what language they spoke these protoscitas or Hyperborean, the center and focus of civilization
was a Paris of the past six or seven thousand years at least?

Spoke the language Euskara, Basque populace. Where had they come? They had come from Atlantis,
which sank. What knowledge did they have? They had all the knowledge we have today and many more
that have been darkened by of fables and other trifles. Thus, the arimaspes, who had one eye
and looked the sky, astronomers were then, they already knew the telescope, and the arrow that
Abaris was riding from one end to another of the earth, was the balloon
or a device to fly and compass direction, etc.., etc., etc. It is
understood that the time of the arimaspes and the decadence Abaris
are Hyperborean civilization.

I confess that I loved this whole system. It is not my purpose to expose here. Step flying on it
and go to my issue.

Say, however, which I loved for two reasons. This is the first how much I like France. How is
natural that the seeds of European civilization was born and flourished from old, in that fertile
and rich garden soil at the privileged, not in Mesopotamia or on the banks of the Nile? And the
second reason, that I have friends in Gipuzkoa, which shall rejoice much if it is proved that their
language and caste were instrumental that he used to kill Providence barbarism, illuminating the
world and indoctrinate other nations.

Much rejoice at this, if still alive, as I wish, my learned friend of mine and D. Joaquin Irizar
and Moya, who has written remarkable works on the Basque language, throwing trip the Erros, Larramendis
and Astarloas! Something he will use the brand-new inventions give more force to your system, arranged
so that fit and fit in with the most perfect Catholic orthodoxy.

Anyway, for me it is clear that before the Celts penetrated into Spain, the Phoenicians, the
Greeks and other nations, was in Spain a civilized people, we call
the Iberians.

These people spread across our peninsula, and even had colonies in Sardinia, Italy and elsewhere,
as William Humboldt has shown. Were Basque and spoke the language Euskara. The most cultured
nation and state and illustrious among them was the republic of turdetanos, who, according
to the testimony of Strabo, had laws and cute lyrics and poems in
verse, had six thousand years old. However, the alphabets and Turdetano
Celtiberian that reconstructed and publishes Don Luis José Velázquez,
are very modern compared to the date cited above. These scripts are
a reflection of the Phoenician or Greek, and it should be assumed
therefore, that before coming to Spain Greeks and Phoenicians, had
turdetanos its own alphabet, which they wrote their poems and other
works.

In my view, Mr. D. Manuel de Gongora y Martinez has had the
glory of discovering the alphabet. See inscriptions Antiques Osiris
in prehistoric Andalucía, de la Cueva of signs and other caves and
hiding places, some of which are near the site of Villabermeja, a
place that I've tried to make famous as its most conspicuous inhabitant
D. Juan Fresco.

Within walking distance there is a site Villabermeja
that the Laderon last name, where every day discovered remains and
relics of an ancient and flourishing city.

The learned and sagacious
antique D. Aureliano Fernandez War there was evidence Favència, time
of the Roman city that was called much earlier Vescio.

Don Juan Fresco,
excited his curiosity and fueled his tireless activity, since the
Mr. Gongora, publishing in 1868 his Antiquities, put on the track,
has been to seek Cave written signs and other landmarks that are near
Vescio, and has found and assembled in much copy.

"Guess um well kill' now, nohow," said Pompey grimly, taking up the animal by the tail; but
it was such a big one that he couldn't lift it, so he had to drag it along the ground towards
the quarters of himself and the other negroes.  Here it would, I knew, ere long be skinned
and dressed in a very savoury way, known only to African cooks, when a portion of the banquet
would be sent in anon to "the big house," for the kindly acceptance of the white folks there--my
mother, and sisters, and myself--elegantly dished up in plantain leaves with red peppers for
dressing.

While I stood for a second watching old Pompey making off with his prey in high good-humour,
looking in the distance, as he climbed the slope of the hill up to the huts, uncommonly like
a lean monkey dragging away a centipede, the intense glare of the tropical noontide, of which
I was for the moment oblivious, changed in an instant to a deep gloom resembling the blackness
of night.  It seemed as if some interposing body had suddenly been placed between the sun and
the earth. Upon arrival at Henry said in a peremptory tone:

- Kid, come sit at the table.

But Henry was Swedish and continued moaning and kicking at times.

- Child! - Shouted D. Bernardo stentorian voice .-- Come now sit at the table!

The boy raised his head and looking frightened father who was staring
him with a terrible expression of anger, began to walk and dragged
reluctantly to the table.

And perhaps it would have reached safely if he did not see the time appear the door to the cause
of the cuffs, Eulalia, who entered the room followed of his mother.

See and feel possessed by insane rage was all one.

- Indecent! I have attached for you! I'll pay all together, recontra! ... I Te Nose trumpet
break them! Metebaza! ... Fea! ... Feona! ... Chula! ...

At being insulted in this way could not help Eulalia jumped like a
beast on his brother, giving this spurt of hair, the wail of Henry,
to feel, did rise again afraid to present.

Dona Martina, that despite his antics had decided passion by him and that was half sorry for
having punished, outraged.
- Listen, fool! Who are you to beat your brother? Are not we here
your father and I for that? Wait, wait a bit, and I will humble myself
down ...!

And he turned to his daughter with his hand up, this cautious
young man had gone wrong not to put in safe running around the table,
Mrs. Martin could not catch it: at the same time, so that Colonel
Ojeda, sought to make peace. "Saddle
my pony at once, for I must go into town, as I told you!"

"But, Tom," interposed my mother at this juncture, "you cannot start in all this rain.  See
how wet you are already, dear, and it is still pouring down, worse than ever!"

"Oh, never mind that, mother, it will stop soon," I rejoined hastily, mortally afraid of her
putting an embargo on my contemplated expedition to Saint George's.  "I will go in and change
my things, and long before I'm ready it'll be fine again, you'll see!  Besides, you know, dad
may have come by the steamer, and he'll be expecting me to meet him and want Dandy to ride
home on.  Jake can take him down along with me, so as to be on the safe side, eh?"

"Well, well, my dear, I suppose you must have your way," said my mother, whom this last argument
of mine, in respect of my father's possible arrival, seemed to convince against her will, for
she made no further demur to my setting out, in spite of the weather. 

Obdulia led his mother to the dining room saying, "Poor Nina! ... Leaves. Well look, I would
have liked to see that moro Muza and talk to him ... This Juliana, who all want to get !...».

Stunned by cruel doubts that baffled his spirit could not express Dona Francisca no idea, and
continued to review the silverware performed. Meanwhile, Juliana, leading the Nina to the door with
soft oppression of his hand on the back of the beggar, the dismissed with these warm words: "Do
not worry, Sena Benina that nothing must be lacking ... I forgive
you the drive that I paid last week, do not you remember?

- Lady
Juliana, I do remember.

Thanks.

- Well, well take this one hard to suit tonight ... Go tomorrow home,
you'll find there clothes ...

- Lady Juliana, God bless.

- Nowhere
else will you be better than Mercy, and if you want, I myself will
speak D. Romualdo, if you get embarrassed.

Doña Paca and I recommend ... For my wife mother-in put their trust
in me and gave me money to keep it ... and to rule the house, and
furnishes as you need.

Much has to thank God have fallen into these hands ...

- Good hands, Madam Juliana.

- Take home, and tell him what to do.

- Perhaps I know without you telling me.

- That you will ... If you do not want to go home ...

- I will go.

-
Well, Sena Benina, until tomorrow.

- Lady Juliana, servant to you.

"

Quickly dropped the worn steps, eager to be seen soon in the street.

When she reached the blind, which was waiting nearby place, the immense grief that oppressed
the heart of the poor mourn old burst into a fiery, anguished, and struck his forehead with his
fist, exclaimed: "Ungrateful, unthankful, ungrateful

- No yorar you, Amri - said the blind loving, tearful Talking -. Lady yours ill be your angel.

-
What ingratitude, Lord ... Oh world ... oh misery!

... Affront to God is to do well ...

- Dir us Lueje ... Dirna, Amri ... Mondo Dispreciar you wrong.

- God sees the hearts of all, mine is too ... See it, Lord of heaven
and earth, see it soon.

"

XXXIX

Having said that, he wiped his tears with a trembling hand, and thought
in making decisions practical than the circumstances demanded.

"Dirna, Dirna - Almudena said grabbing her arm.

- Where? - Nina said with astonishment -. Ah! the former home of D. Romualdo. "

As he said this name stood for a moment lela, completely idiotic.

-
"R'maldo lie - said the blind.

- Yes, yes, my invention was.

Which has been so much wealth to the lady will be another one D. Romualdo glue ... creature of
the devil ... No, no, the glue is mine ... I do not know, I know.

Come on, Almudena. Think you're bad, you need to spend well sheltered at night. Juliana Sena,
which is now cut the cheese in the house of my lady, and all supplies ... in good time is ...
has given me this hard. I'll take you to the palaces of Bernarda,
and tomorrow we'll see.

- Tomorrow, we Hierusalaim dir.

- Where
did you say?

To Jerusalem? And where is that? Well, we want to carry that point, as it were, a supposition, or
Carabanchel Jetafe Down!

- Lueje, Lueje ... you marry me and be a Migo tigo.

Marseille Dirna roads asking ... In Marseille steam ... pim, pam ... Jaffa ... Hierusalaim! ...
Arreligión married by your own, arreligión mine ... you want ...
Veder you Sepulchre, enter S'nagoga you pray Adonai ...

- Hold on,
son, have a little quiet, and I'm not dizzy with the inventions of
your head delusions.

The first thing you wear is good.

- Me to be good ... I do not c'lentura
and ... contented me.

You come Migo always, mondo large walk mochas, freeing, sea, terra, Legria mocha ...

- Very nice, but now I realize that you and I are hungry, and get to dinner in any tavern. If
you think, here in the Cava Baja ...

- Onde want you, I want ...».

Dined with relative content, and Almudena not stop to ponder the joys of going juntitos to Jerusalem,
begging by land and by sea, without hurry, without care. It would take months half a year maybe,
but finally give their bodies in Palestine, although undertake by land to Constantinople. As there were
few attractive countries to go! Nina that she had objected and bones would be hard for so
long, and Africa, not and knowing how to persuade, he said: "terra Ispani n'gratituda ... Running
Lueje, juyando of n'gratos them. "

As they dined are reflected in Bernarda's house, bedrooms down, two real bed. Almudena was quiet
all night, unable to fall asleep, stuck with the short trip to Jerusalem, and Benin, to see
to calm him, showed himself willing to undertake so long pilgrimage. Restless and sore, as if the bed
of brambles out punching, Mordechai did nothing turn from side to side, complaining of burning
in the skin and itching grievous, which were not motivated, that is the truth, about anything concerning
the misery fought with insecticide dusts. This came perhaps a strange turn took the fever,
and is told the next morning in a red rash on arms and legs. The unfortunate desperately scratched
and Benin took him to the street, hoping that the air free and the exercise will serve as a
relief. After wandering about asking, not as usual, went to San Carlos Street, and went to
see Juliana Benina, there he had his clothes, and gave it a mess, saying that while it managed to
be contained in the Mercy lodged in any house price, with or without
man, but he was better, for decency left so friendly and indecent
treatment.

He added that once it was cleaned of all the filth that had brought the Pardo, could go visit
Dona Paca, to joyful receive it, but I did not expect to return to his side, because the children
were opposed to it, mindful that his mother was well served, and provided regularly. Yet he
was as the good woman who saw in it a superior untestable.

Juliana was not a bad person, parent, yes, eager to show the great gifts of government God had
given him, a woman who would not let two jerks fall prey into their
hands.

But not without love of neighbor, he felt sorry for Benin, and having
said this that the Moor the waiting in the street, wanted to see him
and judge him by his own eyes.

That the trace of the poor African seemed pitiful, met in the gesture he made in the look
on his face, and accent said: "I already knew him to this, to see
him on the street asking the Duke of Alba.

He's a good point, and very much in love.

Right, Mr. Almudena, who likes you girls?

- Like my B'nina, Amri ...

- Ajaj ... Benina poor, he has not been granted poor fly! If you do this for charity, honest
I say you're a saint.

- The poor guy is sick and can not use. "

And as the Moor, seized with very violent itching in the arms and chest, claws do your fingers
to scrape win, edging closer to look at her arms, which had stripped from the sleeve. "What
has this man - said to fear - is leprosy ... Jesus, what Leprosy
Benina sign!

I have seen another case, a poor, del Moro well, begging him, Oran him calling at Puerta Cerrada,
next to the workshop of my stepfather. And it got so lost, not Christian had approached him, and
neither will the Saints Hospital wanted to receive ...

"Chop, chop mocha - Almudena was all he said, turning the nail from
the shoulder to hand, as would a comb through the tangle.

Concealing his disgust, not to hurt the unhappy pair, Juliana said Nina: "Well not you have fallen
ill concern with this guy! Look at that scab sticks. Good are you going put, yes ma'am, good,
nice and cheap ... Or are you more stupid than to cook the butter,
or do not know what it is you.

"

With Nina looks no more expressed their pity the poor blind man, his
decision not to leave him and compliance with all the calamities that
God would send. And in this, Antonio Zapata who returned home, saw
his wife in the group, came up to her hurriedly, and aware of what
speaking, Benina advised to carry the Moor to the query of skin diseases
San Juan de Dios.

"More consideration will have - said Juliana - send to their land.

- Lueje, Lueje - said Almudena -. Dir Hierusalaim us.

- Not bad. "From Madrid to Jerusalem, or the family of Uncle Maroma
...'.

Well, well. In other thing, my little lady, do not hit and listen. I could not do your assignments,
because ... I tell you they do not hit.

- Because you've gone to the pool, rogue ... Up, up, and adjust accounts.

- Do not climb because I have to go back to the cars of pathos.

- What do you say, you rascal?

- Not big go cart for less than forty real, and as you sent me from passing thirty ...

- Will I have to see. These men do not serve more than a hindrance, do you, Nina?

- Truth. What is it? Mrs. Will move?

- Yes, women, but may not be until tomorrow, because this silly husband God has given me, out before
the eight to take the house and alert the car, and you see what time you pick up here, with
all that rennet, without having done anything.

- Pretty've run, girl: At nine I went home mom with the contract for signature. You see if we
won time. But you know I've lost Frasquito Ponte, He has given us a tremendous s boring? As
we had to take him home and I Polidura with the greatest job. God, how is the man, and why mess on its
head from the thud of yesterday! ".

Benin and Juliana also interested in good or bad fortune of the son of Algeciras, heard attentive Antonio
told them what the consequences of the fall funestísimas Rider Pardo on the road. When I saw
on the ground, fired by jaco, everyone thought that at that critical moment he had finished the
poor knight's mortal existence. But lift, Frasquito recovered, as he revives the movement
and speech, and ensuring have not been hit in the head, which was the most sensitive, and
felt in different parts the skull, he said, 'No, no, gentlemen, touch Me and not find the slightest
bump. " Arms and legs, if at first seemed to have come out with fortune, for surely broken bone
I had to jump-start some horribly lame left leg, indeed, without doubt, the violent collision
with the ground. But the strangest thing was that, as he stood, broke into a gibberish, rash,
red face like a tomato, vibrant and breath language. They took him to his home by car, believing
that a complete rest will restore; frotáronle entire body with arnica, I went to bed, they
were ... But damn, as they after the patron said he had no sooner
left alone, dressed himself hastily, and fell to street was home to
Boto, and he stayed there until very late getting to everyone, and
leading to the peaceful insolence intemperate parishioners.

As this was contrary Frasquito the placid nature, and his shyness and good education, which
surely had disturbance severe brain because of the bump.

It is not known where he spent the rest of the night: it is believed that was stirring in the streets
of Midi Grande and Chica.

The fact is that shortly after arriving Polidura Antonio and home of Dona Francisca, took Frasquito
very excited, his face flushed, bright eyes, and with great surprise and dismay of the ladies,
began to drop in his mouth, a little crooked, outrageous nonsense. Combining skill with the force,
could get there and get back home, where they left him, ordering the employer to hold if could,
and to do for feeding. Among other monomaniacs toughness, was that of his honor demanded he seek
explanations for the unprecedented affront Moor presumably to say in public that he, Frasquito,
made the cut in Benin. More than twenty times tore Midi to Grand Street, trying to see Mr.
de Almudena, determined to give card, but the African slipped the package and would not let anyone
see it anywhere. Clear had gone to his country, fleeing from the fury of Ponte ... but he was
determined not to stop to discover, and force him to meet a gentleman,
but he hid in the last corner of the Atlas.

"If my lover venier Bunite - Moor said laughing so loudly, that the ends of His mouth caught on
the ears - to me he legs mochas.

- Poor D. Bottle ... wretched soul of God - Nina exclaimed clasping
her hands -.

I feared to stop this ...

- Valiente fright! - Said Juliana -.

What does it matter to us that this old wallpaper Whistle or not it nuts? Do you know what I
mean? Well, all that comes from drugs that is placed on the face, which are poisonous and attack
direction. Hey, do not waste your time. Antonio, go back to Imperial Street, tell them to
prepare everything, and I go to the car to see if fix it this afternoon. Nina, go with God, and
care not hit you ... You know? Oh, daughter, shall cling, even toilet you have! See? and start
to suffer the consequences of bad step ... by ignoring me. Doña Paca told me that I let you go there.
Wants to see: Poor lady! I gave my consent, and take you with me today I thought ... but I
do not dare, daughter, I do not dare. Having in between this plague, can not Rozart ... I had
you were given every day to collect the leftover food in the house that was your mistress.

-
And I do not ...?

- Yes, yes, the food is yours ... but ... see what to do ... you get to the portal to hours that
I set, and my cousin Hillary will bring it down and I will give ... coming at you at least I can
... You understand ... each has its qualms ... Not all stomachs are like yours, Nina, bombproof
... that ...

- I understand ... Lady Juliana. Stay with God. "

XL

Adversity and crashed in the heart of Benin, as the vague waves in
the robust cliff.

Rompíanse thundered, were broken, melted in white foam, and nothing else. Rejected by the family
that he had sustained in saddest days of misery and pain without story soon remake of the deep
trouble that caused him so notorious ingratitude; his conscience gave him unspeakable consolation: he
looked at life from the height at which his contempt of human vanity put it, saw the ridiculous
smallness beings around her, and spirit was big and strong. Had achieved glorious victory,
I felt victorious after have lost the battle on the ground material. More intimate satisfactions
of victory not deprived of his gift of government, and attentive to material things, came
in a little while depart from Juliana, to solve the most urgent as the life both body concerned.
It was crucial to seek shelter, then try to cure your scabies Mordechai or whatever, then
leave him in such a pitiable state would not do for anything in the world although she saw
the filthy infected wrong. And ran with him to Santa Casilda, and finding vacated the small
room occupied by the Moors with Petra, he took it. Fortunately, the drunk Diega had gone to live in the
Cava de San Miguel, behind the ladder.

Installed in that cache, which was not without comforts, the first thing that made the old
Alcarrian was to bring water, all the water he could, and wash and body soap, old habit in
it, that whenever he could practice at home of Dona Francisca. Then he wore clean. The welfare
cleanliness and freshness gave his body, somewhat confused with rest
of his conscience, in which he also felt something like absolute cleanliness
and freshness comforting.

Then devoted himself to the arrangement
of the house, and with the little money he had made his purchase,
and Mordechai prepared a good meal. They planned to bring the consultation
the following day, and so it said, showing the blind according to
all with what she wanted the will to determine. While they ate, entertained
and encouraged him to hope and sweet words, offering to go, as he
wanted to Jerusalem or a little further, as regain health. Pending
to take away the rash, there was no need to think about travel. It
would still, at home, she going to ask for one every day to see get
to live on, surely God not let them starve. So pleased the blind conceived
and proposed plan by his smart friends, and with his affectionate
expressions, which burst into singing the chant Arabic Benina already
heard him in the landfill, but as to escape the stoning had lost the
small guitar, could not accompany the son of that rough instrument.
He then proposed to companion to cast incense, and she did it willingly,
because the smog and flavored saneaba poor room.

They left the next
day for consultation, but as they nominate for this one-hour evening,
entertained the first half of the day pordioseando on several streets,
always good care of the chili, not to fall again in the hands of those
who cast the tie to beggars, as if they were dogs and take them to
the warehouse, where they treated like dogs.  This was the only illness I had ever suffered from in my young life; so, I thought
now that my old enemy had paid me another visit.

"No, dear, you have not had the fever," she answered.  "Do you forget all about going to town
to meet your father, and how your pony threw you over his head at the foot of Constitution Hill?"

Thereupon the whole thing flashed back upon my mind in an instant.

"But how did I get here?"  I inquired, puzzled at this part of the affair.  "I remember now
about my tumble, and seeing dad and Doctor Martin at some place in Saint George's, with old
Jake crying behind them, but I don't recollect anything else."

"My boy," said my mother seriously, her lips trembling as she spoke, "you've had a very narrow
escape from an awful death!  Do you know that had you fallen on your head in the street when
Prince pitched you over, nothing could have saved your life?  As it was, you got your left
arm broken and face cut, besides which you have been suffering from a slight concussion of
the brain, Doctor Martin says.  It is the latter which has made you insensible for so long
a time.  At one time, indeed, we all despaired of you!"

"Really!"  I exclaimed, drawing a long breath of dismay at this catalogue of my injuries.

"Yes, really, Tom," said she; "it is a wonder to me that you are now lying here in your right
senses again."

"But how did I get home, mother?"  I asked, pressing my inquiries so as to learn every incident
of the accident.

"Well, dear, being unconscious, and as moving you could not affect your head much, Doctor Martin
thought you would recover sooner if removed to the fresh country air of Mount Pleasant than
if you were allowed to remain in the stifling atmosphere of the town.  So you were brought
up here, borne on the very sofa on which you were placed when they picked you up after your
fall, four negroes acting as your palanquin bearers."

"Jake was one, I bet!"  I here put in, interrupting her.  "I am sure he wouldn't have let anyone
else carry me if he could help it."

"Oh, yes, Jake assisted," she said; "and I gave him a fine scolding, too, afterwards, for allowing
you to ride down that hill at such a pace. It was a mercy you were not killed outright!"

"It wasn't his fault, mother," I interposed at this point.  Really, I was not going to let
poor Jake be blamed for my obstinacy!  "I made Prince gallop into the town as hard as I could,
in spite of all he could say, for I was anxious to get down to the wharf before the passengers
had landed from the steamer.  I wished to be the first to meet dad."

"And you've found out now, Tom, the truth of the old proverb, `more haste, worse speed,' eh,
my dear?"

"Yes, mother," I said with a laugh, "I never got there at all.  But, dad came all right, for
I saw him, you know.  Where is he?"

"He'll be here presently," she replied; "he has been very anxious about you, and has sat up
every night with you." Against a pretext so inveterate do not know what remedy may be. The art of producing gold, Crisopeya
has been completely lost, and we have no more art or science that put our hope, to see if we removed
the hook, that political economy. God put in touch hands of those who know and apply it to the
management of state affairs. And not I hesitate to say that because of science. How can one
doubt, when science is, was and always will my love, though unhappy? I say to both that may
occur to some economists As with certain philologists who study a language, say, Chinese or
Arabic, so by principles, such recondidez grammar and so deeply, then no one understands, nor
do they understand each other, or fail to understand the true Chinese and Arabs by birth, declaim
against them, claiming that they are ignorant of the literary dialect or speech Mandarin, and do not
know their own language, but in a vernacular, routine and all unintelligible to scholars, but
the truth is that rather than lament, perhaps therefore not serve to dragomans.

Perhaps this explains the way, when I went traveling in a wild country,
I was right to explain what it was that a friend of mine, great engineer,
who insisted on guiding us with their science does not hit ever, and
we almost did not sink and buried in muddy puddles or we lost in dark
woods, where we had eaten the wolves.

I was always with the heart in her mouth, but not for a moment doubted the science. What I
argued was that this land was so rough yet, not understood the science and revealed against it.
Then returned to trust the leadership of our trip to the practical guide and lay it before we
had served and we, the term that we proposed.

Could happen, finally, consisting of political economy, if I remember correctly, several parties, such
as: the creation of wealth, its circulation, its distribution and consumption, we thoroughly
studied over here last party, and have rather neglected the study
of First, regarding it as impossible to learn anything, and saying
humble and Christian with the poet:

It's raising a job That only
God knows With its infinite power.

I live so sure of this truth, I never wanted engulfed in the mare-magnum of Political Economy,
having for so complicated this whole machinery of society, which even remotely have fallen into
the temptation to find out what are the springs that move and what
the basis on which it is based.

    I've always been afraid
    to come to events the
    economist as a child that moved from curiosity, toy breaks to see
what has inside.

My purpose in writing this obrilla is not, therefore, devise economically about money: give
lessons on the most readily available. Who knows, since So I find out if, despite my unblemished
philanthropy, I had to keep silence, at least for a few years, profiting from it for my private
use and the occasional another very beloved friend? My purpose is only to talk about the influence
that money exerts souls: that is, I do not treat here of Political Economy, but of moral philosophy,
exposing some philosophical thoughts about money, sometimes born of my own meditation, prayer
of the deep mind of the ancient and modern scholars I have consulted.


In order the better to amuse me, and make me remain in a recumbent position, dad rigged up
an Indian grass hammock for me beneath the shade of one of the large silk-cotton trees by the
side of the house; and here I used to swing at my ease for hour after hour, looking at the
bright- coloured humming-birds flitting about and watching the busy "Jack- Spaniards," as the
wild bees or hornets of the tropics are locally styled, building their clay nests under the
eaves of the verandah, just in the same way as the sand-martens make their habitations at home.

I also read a great deal, for a kind neighbour luckily lent me at this time a couple of odd
volumes of Captain Marryat's works, so that I had now the pleasure of gloating over the wonderful
history of Mr Midshipman Easy, besides enjoying the strange episodes of Peter Simple's eventful
career.  Both of these books were previously unknown to my boyish ken, and I need hardly say
how entrancing I found them.  Even now, after the lapse of so many years, I cannot hear the
titles of either mentioned, without my memory taking me back in a moment to the garden of my
old island home in the West Indies--the very perfume of the frangipanni and jessamine being
almost perceptible to my vivid imagination, while my fancy pictures the scene around, and my
listening ear catches the faint rustle of the wind through the tops of the cabbage palms!

Once, I recollect, when lazily rocking to and fro in my hammock, I saw a large armadillo crawl
out from amidst the brushwood under the trees, he having probably come down from his cave somewhere
up in the mountains for change of air.  This animal is something like a tortoise, only ever
so much bigger; and as the negroes esteem them very good eating, saying they are better than
turtle, I at once gave Jake a hail to let him know of the arrival of the strange visitor, when
my darkey hastened speedily to the spot, securing the armadillo without much difficulty.  Jake
was all the more delighted with his prize from the fact that my accident had prevented me from
going manacou hunting with him as I had promised.  He argued that the armadillo would serve
as a set-off to Pompey's iguana, which had been constantly "thrown in his teeth," as it were,
ever since his rival had killed it in my presence, the one capture neutralising the other. I could not remedy: the commitment to him for the next day, I worried much, and me alone in
my room after his leave my uncle, whose condescension declared my purposes I'd like something as
a signature of a judge at the foot of a sentence death, much troubled me, and when stuck in bed,
after preparing the arsenal Chisco recommended me for battle, I was in darkness, the concern went
streaking with fever. And I think the case was not for nothing. Tell a man of the cities, made all
the softness of a spoiled life, "Vertel'll hand in hand with a beast of the most fierce and frightening
at the bottom of a cave of the mountain, exposed to the fierce not alone and need to defend
against another or others of the same lineage ', and see what meat you get to that subject,
it is tempered. True Chisco and his comrade had to carry most brutal in the effort, and they
were no longer new to them those sets terrible but after they were two tough mountain with more
heart than intellect, especially Salces Pito, had no common sense, and view things from this
side, there was too much too serious to fear, rational thinking.

As soon as I fell asleep, what dreams!

Herds of bears everywhere, and bear all sizes and colors, and auction of these visions, a dreadful
cavern full of them: three of the most woolly and serious, sitting on a rock background, and the
other, in a tight mass, occupying the whole area to the inlet, minus a small space between the first
row mass and the three big animal in the rock. In this space I was, it was the defendant in
that sort of trial, and it remained near the rock and almost in front of me the hole enough for another
huge bear that was amusing himself by sharpening the nails in a big edge ground while licked by
their noses and bloodshot eyes looked at me swinging head. That bear was the executioner there,
waiting to give judges the bellowing sentencing me to death, to put away a good portion of my
pieces and throw the remaining the crowd that had already been eaten and Pito Chisco Salces,
with guns and everything. Well I was employed, to wander in reckless guapeza those animals that
were not messed with us.

Trying was the last superhuman effort to make myself understood in
this fierce court when I plucked from the clutches of sleep a few
shakes Chisco had just enter my room.

Well, with me as well as distressing nightmare-free, yet I found some similarity between my waking
and the inmate on death row for the arrival of the executioner to dress the hopa.

And dawn, and, traces one day in the most splendid and warm they could ever conceive at this season
and in that town.

Through this door there was no escape, and dressed with resolution a hero, but I turned up the weapons
without knowing how he had spent the night my uncle, who was already awake insurance, if not lifted,
as was his custom to rise early the sun as much as he had strength enough to throw the bones
out of bed. I went at once to his room through the cracks of the door of which saw light.
I called, I heard his voice then commanded me to enter. God forgive me if at some little corner
of the most obscure and remote from my heart, hid a germ even unconscious desire to find in
the health of the poor man some slight disorder in me to justify a decision Strict stay at
home "then"!

So richly had spent the night and found him running as lively to say
his prayers usual, I had a hard time not reduce him to accompany me
to the portal.

In view of this, despedíme until noon, and went back to my room where I waited Chisco ...
and hot coffee, toast, commissioned by the monsoon that had prepared me Tona ... Finally, half
an hour later we were Chisco and I, armed to the teeth, on the porch, where Pito Salces with his shotgun
to his shoulder and a lap Perruca next, entertained his impatience Tona sniffed at their chores
from above.

Chisco released the Canelo and beat in his kennel, smelling what was
brewing between us, and showed me his joy at being free, putting his
hands on his chest ... and at risk of losing balance with the force
of his affectionate demonstrations.

Walking up the hill and I said Chisco, in response to a suggestion
of mine, who had not wanted, he and Chorcos, anyone found out more
than me of finding the bear, because as presented the set, was "something
curriente 'and' cannon posau ..." and the fewer packages, more clarity.

I was not in his opinion, and believed that, at least, the company, for example, Don Sabas, we
would have been Pearl. No and no, and they knew very well what thought. I did not say a word
about the case.

Nor for my companions had no doubt that the big animal that should have been given for the storm,
the high life in the shelter, because it parlan fed fresh skeleton
almost mondo a mare pepazo seen in a "Rejoya" in the vicinity of the
cave and becerruca missing from the cabin, going to the trough from
Escajales winter, which he had not to appear.

It was more by token, the sweatshop, a neighbor of TARUMBA. So it was initiation of a bear
in fresh meat and what you want mouth. Excellent time of our visit to sharpen the appetite of
his mercy!

Naturally linked to this conversation came the plan to attack the beast in his own den after we
ascertained that he was in it. The thing could not be easier as we put the two hunters who knew
spans the cave and its surroundings.

Also is he talked about the possibility that the market had gone for a stroll or for supplies
to get us home, which would infallible signs of their way of life and the more or less often the
left. But if you had family at home, as was also believed, would be very few times that the lack
of the mother ... 'Or the father. " So were possible against the three of us in this foolish endeavor,
two bears, without offspring, which could be abundant and talludita. Of course I kept very
good note of these comments that were happening to me as the two talked mozallones: I had committed
my self in that company, and did not want to be interpreted my common sense reasons, for signs of
shrinkage.

Then came the advice and instructions to me that I had never seen elsewhere. I looked very well,
only they all were based on the same basis: the serenity and steady hand. As if these little things
will take, in sets so tricky, in the backpack provisions or belt
of the cartridge!

Acordábame me then, something like that had seen in a small room very funny French. A merchant
of skin is presented in a hamlet in the Pyrenees with a good collection of them, bought in
Algiers: by this, and Packages take certain initial and luggage, and anything he says about
the climate African and hunting in those forests, tómanle the simple villagers, who were fond
hunting, by a famous matador of lions. Leave it running he noted, because it has the mistake
to their account for commercial purposes, and begins the siege of questions of those French
fans, renowned enthusiasts. "But let's see - come to ask - How can a man be face to face with
a lion and the courage to let go a shot? "In the that responds very calmly the furrier: "In the simplest
way. Have not you seen ever face to face with a hare? Then imagine, as they stand before the lion,
the lion is a hare ... and no more. "" Yes - replicates the least optimistic of the questioners,
scratching their heads - and only that it seems a bit difficult to make those assumptions before
lion. "

The mountain, since I did not walk by it, had changed much in appearance: the oak I left still
fairly well dressed, but with the withered and yellow robes, were naked, and the same happened to the beech
and the bushes' road changeable. " The ground was 'washed', the grass of the brañas, stretched
and stroked her hair as a fresh from the water head and every hollow
was a torrent.

As we gain altitude, we found most often large plates or "tresechones" frozen hail on the slopes
bleak, and from the peaks of Europe to those of Sejos, all peaks that were reached to see was snow,
which glittered in the sun to hurt her head with its rays.

This was the ambient air, cold and sharp as a razor. So with all this and with how painful it
was to walk the path that we had, for the slippery floor and multitude of obstacles that opposed
the overflowing streams, I was looking long. This may consist in the little desire I had of reaching
the end of our journey; because after the fun was not my conversation
with the two monsoon or end of joy to be delivered Chorcos every moment,
as if to their own weddings.

Such was his irrational concern, who was two or three times the road, like dogs that were
with us. Trying to stop him a bit, but most notably launch the conversation to another site
more enjoyable, I dropped from both the subject of his love affairs with the respective monsoon.
Pete came to my call as a mastiff to the hand that gives half leg. Chisco, who walked beside
me without missing a beat of its Upright movements left only to discover at a glance soson and
faded, that he had learned of the reference. Chorcos told me bluntly that he was "too amerluzaón
of" the servant of my uncle, the was in "telucas Eye" and "got the legs to the heart. Come on,
porridge!, If not got his way, not knowing what would become of him. " She, to this, he had
not said no ... nor that yes, indeed he, meanwhile, was not as clear he must be ... "" Geez,
what respect shrank as it looked on the verge of it! But the mother ... and Mr. Celso ... and
face up the same Tona made him maybe ... And EuP see him as acobardao! ... De toas lots, porridge!,
Tona Tona was, and he would eventually get out with it, or ajuegarse of hipu amorosu, but not
with PASAP knot ... "

It was the same, plus Handicapped, which had told me two other times walking me through the
mountains. So at that time had no advance your business one step.

Nor that of Chisco, as he told me very quietly, and that he had something more advanced Pito Salces
to yours. Tanasi had come to say clearly that "For its part, yes, and we will not pass on Robacio
tried because I knew that rejected him for not Toper Tablanca be,
and poor, two things he could not remedy.

Then I remembered I the second was hopeless in the will of my uncle, and said:

- It is true that the former is inevitable, but why the second has to be, Chisco? A best at dawn
darker ... or do not go up garbage dumps, Bajans the battlements, and out there with each
other in height.

- Psh - I replied with a shrug - and, finally, that things stay as
they are.

I do not like Pitu Tantu ajondan esus Malis in the core. Not unless Tona Tanasi val; but as
Roga, as Roga, will POCU removing the desire to POCU eya ... and Tami, that esu unu put him
in a bid and a jastial remati as Pepazus ... vamus that bad estómagu
jaz ... And in finiquitu, the dude is lambe sueltu well, and can it
be permitted by God, those trompiezus, pa rid in tomorrow's Otrus
busts I pa toos the days of my life ... Dende that Tuvia dientis royeli
pa, I'm ganandu the bread in a strange house, and I was not so bad
idu.

Why rush a man suerti change when they know what I have to dali by leaving?

With these philosophies and intemperance Chisco Salces Pito, just up a slope slippery floor, and
we were at the beginning of a large mountain range that fell in gentle waves to our left. There Atajábala
the frontispiece of a high rocky hill that dominated it throughout its length, and was separated
from it by a ravine. On it stood, and through him and the profile of the mountain, a white rock
that looked like the hood, view from behind a cloak of titans, dark brown, spread there to dry
to sun's rays illuminated the whole vast area.

To the right of the rock began a dark green stain, such as coppice, which disappeared early in the shadows
of the ravine to the left, a little relief woven scree weed.

Pointing to the rock Salces Pete told me as soon as we saw in the mountains, because Chisco already
serving him knew well known scenario:

- Ayi Aonda vamus the cave.

I shook the meat.

And then added, pointing to the higher profile of the mountains, to our right and referring
to the bear

- Bajandu Ayi as the target dende onde caminu until we jayamus nusotrus, lu saw yesterday. Carrascalis
aqueyus left and Thurs for the peñascu delanti onde is the mouth
of the cave; and it was not to lau from here, or by the otru golvió,
because I moved away while the Ayi oju Guen walked to the caminu pasu,
or the half hour here mesmu estuvi Parau.

Chisco, without saying a word, the Canelo tied with a string that had tied at the waist, Chorcos
and sent to do the same with the Perruca, antojándoseme to me that
he had read shocked at the attitude of those noble animals, confirming
the assumptions Pito, which warned, threatening to tie him too if
he did not take the warning seriously, not to do anything without
being commanded.

With all these preparations and mandates, and specifically with satin and neglect extension
that was between the rock and we ended up on undaunted. Was not it awful bare-chested assaulting the lair
of a beast?

I told Chisco and she responded very flatly, no, adding that what mattered was that anyone would
not run Serenity: in having it, everything else flowed from his account.

The reference could not be more straightforward to me, for Pete, of so gross as it was, just
sinned on the other end.

Entendíla, dolióme, I plucked up heart, and said that of Robacio:

- Where to go another man, I will go, so keep this light.

- Post to EYU enough - Replicom - and anti Pechuan cuantu water.

A brief inspection of weapons and ammunition. In the first two mountaineers had not more than
escopetonas and huge knives whose handles, antler, appeared sashes above their waists. The bullet
cartridges, coarsely prepared the night before by them, brought them loose in the pockets of
lastic, and pistons bulk in his pockets of his pants, all safe and
handy, as they said.

I would advantage drew his revolver and a shotgun barrel.

- Not disparity of two to one tiempu - Chisco recommended me - and guard the pa if convio segundu
Best sitiu repeat, without removing the gun from his face.

Thrown out for having lost track of, or because there really rational
cause Therefore, it is true that I have great confidence in the unruffled
serenity of Chisco, and that was the last to break to walk to the
rock when he gave the order in these words solemn, after crossing
himself:

- A hand of God!

We went down the wing and three in good walking with the dogs tied very short, because as we
approached the rock, was very hard to contain them, and much more silence their beats. It was
already agreed plan to attack the beast in its den, entering the left side mouth, and not fitting
that the dogs we anticipated, for reasons that were discussed too.

Close, very close and the cliff, dragging the Canelo materially Chisco, pulling him with all
his strength in the opposite direction, and gagged with one hand and could make silence. The lap
Perruca also beat and shouted in their own way, and shook the cord that was holding the paw of
Pete, but shaking a lot ... although not as much as me.

Undoubtedly the beast was in his den "We have heard already? Would you go to get to the door?
But all this, where was the door?

To me this question mentally I was when Chisco was ahead of Pete and me, and Custom I placed
the last of the three, began to move very cautiously and very leaning the crag, the little
that we needed to walk to the edge of the ravine. Canelo went before it, beside himself with
anxiety, sniffing the ground and in the air, fighting the flanks with half inch tail and tongue
outside the mouth when not beating. Chorcos was no less overdrive the hound, and followed hot on
almost Chisco rear anchors its sandals. Canelo quickly disappeared across the rock, and Chisco,
after stopping to observe a moment from the corner, Hizon signs that
could follow, and disappeared too.

Then to move us, was when I could give me an answer to the question I had done shortly before:
Where was the mouth of the cave?

Eternal God, what wealth of the atrocities of that day! For the mouth was in a pit the rock,
almost to peak over the ravine. So it came to be the cave as the attic of a house very high, very
high!, which loft had to go out the window, walk the cornice of the
facade in question.

Unless the ledge of the rock would five feet wide and jaramagos festoon the outside who watched
a little frightening vision the abyss, the comparison is exactísima.

On this ledge, which ran until lost in the scrubland on the other
side of the cave, I saw Chisco pass and his dog, Pito Perruca Salces
behind his lap, and how they disappear, one by one, in the dark cave
men and animals, after very slight precautions the monsoon of Robacio.

It offered no great difficulty as I pass that road whose length does not exceed fifteen or twenty
yards, but racionalísima consideration of what we would do after traveling, no other withdrawal
that the gap in the case likely escaped out of the cave, if not jigote facts stayed in there,
stuck my feet on the ground to the first steps I took about it. I saw everything that was brutally
reckless blundering in our company, and formed seriously intended to go back. But Salces Chisco
and Pete had already plunged into the cavern; and though very gross
recklessness and two, it was not honest or decent to leave without
their help a man who had to promise to go so far beyond and outside
another.

Lasted a few moments these hesitations mine, and shut the eyes of the intelligence all common sense reasoning,
ie, getting off at the level of these two barbarians avancé resolved by the ledge and came to
the mouth of the cave, inside which desperately pounded the two dogs, and I found myself having
Chisco and his comrade's plan of attack. The cave I knew as referrals from the two men who
knew her well, had two breasts: the first entry, was large and not very high on vault, the floor
much more below the threshold of the door, very rugged and very steep slope toward the wall
of fund, which saw the mouth of the other breast or cabinet that room to receive. Smelt there
kennel building, and moss and ... men and pickled. I had no doubt as to Chisco that it was "Mrs.", ie,
the bear, which grumbled at the bottom of the antrum invisible, responding desperate to beat the
dogs and the lady with her offspring, because without such loving care, had already left the
stage to do the honors of the house. This belief is discussed briefly, most with signs, because
there was no time to lose, whether it would be Perruca best release the hound, and agreed to
the first, the barbarian Pito without hearing other reasons, he went to the mouth of the cave in
which he put his head while that the Perruca. It was gone, something vacillating and indecisive,
right, and not I know which came first, the disappearance of Perruca in there, or the anguished cries
heard two and bellows tremebundo, or four steps back Pito anchovy, exclaiming to us (I think that
with glee), but with the weapon ready:

- Christ God ... You say you are not ojus aqueyus: two brasales!

Chisco understood the point of what it was, let the hound me and told me that I should stay where
it was (that is, as the first third of the cave, near the wall on the right) but with the gun
ready, though not shoot before them two, and moved him to stand on
the same line of Chorcos, so your shots are pretty open-angle cross
anchovy in the center of the bottom.

As all the wisdom and reflection that could be expected from those two tough mountain Chisco had to
look at, I did not take my eyes off him, and he could not but admire to note that neither in that
trance of perfect test altered the regularity of the continent: his gaze was steady, calm and cold,
as usual, its color the same as ever, and there was no a muscle or a sign around his body betray
a beat in his heart more than normal; Salces unlike Pete, who did
not fit into their clothes, certainly not out of fear, but by the
delight brutal that he had those sets.

Taking me to guide my eager curiosity Chisco eyes and hear while Canelo barking just put it in
the den, I saw him back soon, but giving face the enemy with all four legs wide apart, head up
and almost touching the ground belly. Which forced him to walk and it was not hard to guess:
after him came the beast growling and grumbling, and to poke the anchovy, the cold did not
stop me nervous that ran my whole body, to estimate the accuracy with which Pete had described
the look of the eyes animalazo that: really sparkled between woolly tufts of their sockets, as coals
in the dark. Our presence checked him for a moment on the threshold of the cave; but then remaking,
took two steps, disregarding the protests of Canelo, and sat on his hind legs, giving both a wail
and raising his hands up near the muzzle, as if to exclaim:

- But
these men who dare to much, much more gross than me!

When he saw that incorporated the beast, said Pete Salces Chisco:

-
You to oju, I heart ... Are you?

Well ... A!

Two explosions sounded, the beast beat the air with his arms had not yet had time down, opened his
huge mouth, throwing another roar more formidable than the first,
gave a couple of laps on the legs, as they dance in the streets the
slaves of their species, round and fell in the middle of the cave
with his head toward me.  I noticed, too, that the sky seemed
to be of some gauzy transparent material like ethereal azure, and did not exhibit that solid
appearance it has in England of a ceiling with gold nails stuck in it here and there at random;
for, the "lesser orbs of night" in the tropics look as if they were floating in a sea of vapour.
They appear a regular galaxy of beauty and splendour, and so many glorious evidences of the
great Creator's handiwork.

Every now and then, also, the air around us was illuminated with sparks of green-coloured flame,
while the woods seemed on fire from a thousand little jets that burst out every second from
some new direction, lighting up the sombre gloom beneath the shade of the forest trees.

One could almost imagine that there was a crowd of fairies going before us, each carrying a
torch which he waved about, now above his head, and then around lower down, finally dashing
it to the ground with those of his comrades, as is the custom at the torchlight processions
of the students in Germany on some festal night.  As dad and I trotted along towards home,
the sparks of flame appeared now rising, now falling, vanishing here, reappearing there, finally
converging into a globe, or "set piece," as at a pyrotechnic display, and then dispersing in
spangles of coruscation like a fizzed-out firework.

This beautiful effect, one of the wonders of a night in the West Indies, was caused by the
fireflies.  Of these insects there are two distinct species, one really a small fly which seems
to be perpetually on the wing, flitting in and out in the air always, and never at rest; while
the other is a species of beetle that is only seen in woody regions, where it takes up a more
stationary position, like the glowworm over here.  This latter has two large eyes at the back
of its head, instead of in front in their more natural place; and these eyes, when the insect
is touched, shoot forth two strong streams of greenish light, something like that produced
by an electric dynamo, while, at the same time, the entire body of the "firefly," or beetle,
becomes as incandescent as a live coal.

The light which even one of these little creatures will give out is so great that I have often
seen dad, just for the sake of the experiment, read a bit out of a newspaper on a dark evening
with a firefly stuck in a wine-glass for a candle!

For some time we jogged along silently; but just when we were nearing Mount Pleasant I could
not help asking dad what Captain Miles had meant by that question he had asked him about taking
me for a voyage.

I had been dying to know what the remark referred to ever since I had overheard it, but waited,
thinking that dad would tell me of his own accord; so now, as he didn't speak, I had to brave
the ordeal of the inquiry.

"He wanted to take you home to England to school, Tom," replied dad briefly in an absent sort
of way, as if his thoughts were amongst the fireflies.

"Really?" said I hesitatingly--"and--"

"And, I have not quite made up my mind in the matter yet, Tom.  Besides which, there's your
mother to be consulted," interposed dad, answering my second question before I could put it.

"And if mother does not mind, you will let me go, then, in the Josephine with Captain Miles,
eh, dad?"  I asked anxiously.

"I didn't say so, did I?" said dad quizzingly.

"But you meant it, dad, you meant it, I know," cried I exultantly. "Hurrah, I am so glad! 
I am so glad!"

CHAPTER FIVE.

GOOD-BYE TO GRENADA!

"Are you really so glad to leave us all?" said dad somewhat reproachfully, as I could judge
from his tone of voice; for, although the stars and fireflies illumined the landscape sufficiently
for us to see our way, the light was too dim for me to observe the expression of his face. I asked my uncle with a look what
it was that and he replied:

- This is for ink ... I mean, it was, because the latter made the past year, it left over. Made
it with guts and copperas, and tossed into the jar with that paluco,
Higares that is because of different stuff does not work: out the
wrong color ink.

After the cupboard empty, my uncle sent me to take out the shelf pulling me. I took the shelf,
which was heavy and brown, like everything inside the cupboard. Were on the bottom of it,
vertically and one in each corner, two wide strips, which appeared be there to hold the ends of two
horizontal and closer, on which lay the shelf, but it was a very different destination, were loose
and served to hide some iron pin that was fastened to the side panels of the background. Get this
one at last, after removing the hindrance of the four strips, and
overcome the difficulty, not small, rusty pins run, a black figure
appeared in the bowels of the wall.

- Jala that pa-capita, pulling
- my uncle said, pointing to the package by hand over my shoulders
half embedded in the cupboard.

Embutílos still more to do as I ordered my uncle got his hands to the package, I had four faces,
hard and cold, as they were of iron, bent fingers on the edges the bottom, and pulled towards me
- but not enough to the first pull, because it was so heavy the box and I need to repeat with
greater force to drag it to the mouth of the cupboard, where I left it on behalf of my uncle.

-
Now - I ordered - give a half turn so that it is for us the last
side.

Hícelo well, and she appeared in the lock, which to the naked eye
there was nothing particular.

The box would measure just over a foot wide, by a matter of foot and a half high.

- Current - my uncle said so -. For now let me get to where you are, but repairs well what do
you see me to find out better than I will explain.

Then chose one of the keys to your keychain, and, with some trembling hand, directed to a point
in the lock box.

All these procedures and details were putting my curiosity and surprise in a degree extraordinary
stress. The appearance of the room, so austere that bordered on the poor; your door and immediate
locked, emaciated man, wrapped in a cloak rough and unkempt, highlighting the pale face, sunken
eyes and shiny hands and cadaverous, black backgrounds that cupboard,
and another fund it, the more black Moreover, an iron box hidden by
a more or less ingenious traps, a gloomy light illuminating stay,
and beyond the roaring of the hurricane, I was looking at a whole
passage of melodrama, in which I played the role of young lover, protected
from ruthless usurer, one of those incomprehensible whims of the human
heart.

- The box - my uncle told me when I revealed the secret almost
a lock, very easy to learn, after explained - the Jizo was running
and a jerreru from here amañante and very little idea, and gave it
to my father, and she opened it, walking time, this pantry in this
morio, not four feet lower mountain.

No memory of attempted robbery in the house, but since there was something secret box to keep
at it ...

As soon as it was open, and given a good part of what kept, turned my uncle to me and said,
as if reading the thoughts bubbling in my head:

- The least you've figured you, to see what is going on here awhile
ago, your uncle is a miser forsaken of God, and that is deslumbrarte
eyes with the fruit of their prey.

The truth, Marcelo: what I would include, as in your case.

I smiled without saying a word, and continued my uncle

- But well and yet fail this time signals. This you see here, is, in sum and settlement, saving your
uncle Celso ... and the poor puchera Tablanca. These jewels Loose are those that have been
coming to my hands, and the like came to your father by inheritance from our ancestors, at
least a few, these gold earrings, necklaces and these coral, and the silver shrine with fine stones,
which gave me my poor wife when we got married, and had legármelos commitment to his death. These
cartridges long and short, fat and thin, gold coins are all of them. I do not know what up together,
because they never tired I wanted to find out. What I know is that it declines depend on the
needs there outside my house. Me and few are her children, we have plenty with what gives us land each
year, and that we treat them well and what you want by mouth. The sources that have been flowing,
they are not, as you can understand, in Tierruca poor and the cattle Tablanca: other is very
far from here, and old in the family, better springs. All they'll have news when you need
them, in papers that are in these files and to on the dresser ... veils there, because a while
ago I walked with them in hand. What important that you know without delay so that it can
roar, it was in this joriaco what you've got to look at and not cataloged anywhere, and that
this, jewelry and coins Your single membership is from this moment.

Surprised with the occurrence, I tried to very formal objections to
my uncle.

I agreed say a word.

- It's my business - I said, covering my mouth with one hand, cold as stone tomb - and resolve about
it what I want. Also, I'm entering into a vein of talk, and I need to talk I alone and no
one was cutting the word ... Piece of junk! Up to get arrears these days of black blues. The
worst is pispajo Lifetime! are failing me breathless ... Let rest a little.

He sat in a chair breathing trouble, more pale than before face and perspiring. Advise re not talking
about that case or any other, because he needed rest and quiet; but I took into account the advice.
A little while, but without leaving your chair, continued:

- Should warn you, that I have understood that not trying to match this misery to favor that
does little to offer me. The proof of this, if you do not just my word, will find in my will, made
at the gates of death, when the first attack of this dog disease ... I tell you, let me just
talk to me until the end of all what I mean. Another day you speak, and leg ... Returning
to the case, say that of all that it is yours now, have left many people believe that these miracles
mine; because so many times I had to beg me for a bit, with the excuse of not being able; as
soft to the first letting discover the source, poor thing and poor Me, son of the soul! because,
in the settlement, these men, though good in the main, are rude and governed more by mouth
than by the understanding ... Nor do I say this Supply to force you to do this to anything,
but because it is the truth, and not on that you know ... as I know everyone has their way
to kill fleas, and you'll especially yours, therefore, and you'll make your layer a coat or two,
or those you fancy ... or none, if you feel better. But (and be the example to see the matter
both sides) if you come down here one day to follow the same tastes that I had I regard this
neighborhood, I will not hide the fact that much work has to cost you at first, and some trouble
later. To help pull over the initial difficulties I recommend the Priest, who knows as well
as I, and even much better than me, which leg is lame each of its parishioners. It can also be
helpful, and good, Neluco Celis, a doctor; that although young, has a will of pearls for these
things, great eye and greater understanding. Be warned also that the priest is the only man out
of us, who knows what is stored in this wall. I thought it expedient to declare when you did not,
because eat it someday mice, or would stop, in time, to hands that do not deserve, because
I have no heirs or other poor relations that the two bandits that I spoke the other day, and
do not deserve more than a shackle that will not lack, if you live ... Let this blow over me
cough, and take another breath. Oh, piece of junk, miseriuca what are the best!

This time was longer than the interval of my uncle, because it was more the fatigue caused by
cough.

As he recovered a bit, he continued:

- Well, well, what I was going: you're on top of things and you start your plan: here begin
the joys of the good involved, but also the uneasiness fat if you do not weapons lot of patience,
but much, pispajo! Because I come back to tell you that these men as soon it will fall, you
are not all saints. But we have five fingers on each hand, and no two that are equal: the same
goes for the children of family, and going well in a family and a few blood alone, what will
not happen in a family of many, as is that there are so many sons of different mothers? Will
stumble from time to time, even with ungrateful, and you will see that this is the most painful
trip and more forced to close eyes to go ahead with the duty that one has with God and with
their good intentions; and by doing so, to get to watch as these unfortunate children who most
need for his weakness, love and monitoring of the father. At any rate, prosperity and I thank
the good consolation of the ingratitude of those who are less so, because ill, properly, I
do not know here: truth be told. Thus led task end by taking a lot of law, but beware of ever
giving it well secured, firmly believe that everywhere, because tall towers of the same make have
been the floor overnight. As safe as these men I had to those Coteruco my great friend Don
Roman de la Llosía, and I've already told you how and why, two years ago, in As these new policies
came to govern us today, in a blink of an eye he got out of hand, and grateful and loving men,
became fierce his enemy to the point the gentleman was forced more by what he saw pain afraid
that I did, to move his residence to Santander with his family. And it goes beyond the dates,
without taking his eyes of his people, but with the comfort, ultimately, to see how there
are missing him and longing for him that he vilified them, as they back the stool to the bottom
of Cuba, stirred for vile hands.

What will test you on the other hand, my son, a good seed can not ever bad fruit, and that the
short or long, and having planted so good always triumphs and comes
out above all.

This does not tire you more now, and we will leave, if Paez you, all these gadgets as they
were.

So doing, that is, I proceeded, because my poor uncle was not to move
from the chair, and barely managed to get the key ring of the chest
after closed and open for me several times under his direction, lest
I forget the secret of the lock, and while I was putting everything
into place and lock the cupboard, which wanted to separate key also
on the keychain, and I finally parted, their bodies, having no strength
or patience he to do so.

Then he handed me two keys, not the least spoil word against its decision irrevocable.

- But the soul of God - I said finally thinking - have not you heard that they are useless already
in my keychain?

Have not you seen that not to move the cupboard unpins tablucas me forces are ya? How, without
giving room to the preacher, I compose myself to reach the down to
what's inside the box?

Do not you think? As if (which is not expected) I need some of it in the rest of my life, not to
achieve what current goes more readily in the drawers of the bureau, you ask you this point
was resolved. So Enough of this conversation, and another thing ... I also want you to take
to your room these I was flipping through papers when you came here for you to go finding
out about them if you're not the funniest thing in what you entertained.

He hurried and awkward with all those who were scattered on the dresser, a jumble sorry, and
I delivered them. As I folded and ordered a little better, we exposed excuses and objections
that were useless: she did not hear me.

When I finished my short and easy task I said:

- Now return, my son, your chores and head a little airing the house, and go in the confidence that
if so treated here between the two I've taken the disease off, you
gave me strength and courage that he no longer had to carry it without
shame or fear to the same grave, and this, in my view, better than
good health.

Then I hugged her, and still told me before I move toward the exit, turning him to the laundry:

-
Look, man, until the wrath of God seems to have calmed also: it does
not rain much or Rebombo thunders and the wind as before.

And it was the truth: the same light in the room, despite finishing the afternoon leave was less
sad when I had entered it.

XIX

As the night of that day were only rumors of a distant time and intermittent to gasp their way to
exhaustion after a fierce struggle continued for ten days. On this occasion was the gathering something
more lively than the previous last, and even the patriarch it seemed like another president so he
was talkative and humor hustler. Well I knew the cause of the miracle. As Facia knew that,
unlike all others so downcast and gloomy were walking the few times he was seen in the kitchen.
Lacked the poor who booms of the storm at the mouth of the chimney, which showed on the crust
of soot collected housewarming as big as the palm of the hand that step of hailstones on the
doors and windows of the house, that incessant blasting goteriales the roof, and that flow
from the rain by yards and yards, in sparkling rivulets to tumble down the slopes after looking
outside the river no longer fit into their channel. I gazed sometimes compassionate, and respondíame
her with a melancholy look, that seemed to mean: "There's the boom there, do you see how unhappy
I am?" And this was what I was worried that night, when both self and what was used imagination
after what happened two hours earlier at the apartment of my uncle. Do not have things While
the rogue inexplicable human condition? But then he turned the tables and paid all together,
as is often said, because it just hit my eyes all night, and why I had gone to bed pretty sloppy
to have seen my uncle in his sleep with the tranquility of a boy. So yes I saw the tiniest details,
and all its light and its attendant assumptions, deductions and reviews the scene that afternoon!
I could not ultimately determine whether, thinking it so much and so I was pleased or mortified
me: there were shades for everything in the box and thoughts. The truth was that frustration
and nervous about the battle of my concerns in the dark, turned on the light, and no sooner had
I on, I remembered the papers that my uncle had given me in his room to say goodbye, and I had saved
after a dresser drawer.

- Good resource - I said - to overcome these long hours of sleeplessness.

I got up quickly, grabbed the papers and went back to bed, ready to
learn from them.

The main were three: the testament of my uncle, an inventory of your property valued sale and
rent, and a memory dedicated to me his letter, with very crooked lines and rather blurred, was
signed and dated subsequent to the will, and very little prior to the first letter he had written
after the sick.

I started with the will, which was long and thorough. After the pious and charitable bequests, which
were many, among them one very important on the local school, was very good legacies to his
servants, in particular to Facia, which left the property, as well of the corresponding legacy
in money, the hunt, with land and cattle, he had lived bride of the scoundrel who cheated on her,
forgive all debts to his neighbors of Tablanca, and the income of the year he died at the wearers of
their farms, cottages and herds. My sister left an estate of two that possessed in the province
of Leon, and the remaining its volume, after making these and other less significant deductions,
appointed me heir, being the only male in direct line of Bejos Ruiz.

Put things here, and without my surprise after treaty evening hand in hand the testator, I went
in very strong desire to know the approximate value of the estate. In the final analysis, what the
devil!, I was also weak flesh like other men. According to I expected, had acquired a history
of my father, all the flow of my uncle for a man his way of life, was very considerable, but
for my Bejos Ruiz custom, it was something very different: rather, that flow, enjoyed Tablanca
as I enjoyed my uncle, was a veritable wealth to live as I lived in Madrid, no be extravagant or
anything, I would have eaten in a few years. Yet (what deny I do not dislike because it is
inherent in human texture?), I was very satisfied with inheritance, which would make me the
first rancher Tablanca. Who dislikes be the first anywhere in the world inhabited and habitable,
by her dark and minimum be? Compensation worth of this weakness, the mortification felt fears
that was not as selfless as I thought with loving gratitude to my heart responded the largesse
and distinctions of my uncle.

His report, written with the spontaneous and pleasant disarray that
it was his own, was reduced to expose myself, broadly speaking, the
framework of charity, call it "his duty", the main fruits of it, what
it cost each year about money, because in patient had no calo or measure,
and a list of the most deserving families Tablanca, because of their
special merits and virtues of protection and the estimation of "the
big house."

All stated to me that my government only. The only request I made, and very expensive, was
to ensure that is not dismembered in my life the heritage of the Ruiz de Bejos was happening
to my hands full and as he had received from his father and he's those of his, nor my children
to inherit, if he were to them, and if not, what will happen to those my sister with the same recommendation
for the same purposes, provided they were compatible with laws. For the time being and "the
closed doors" to let me be guided by the indications the pastor Don Sabas Peña, and if it did not live
longer, the person I look for his mandate. He could not be explained more clearly there, because
the papers are light things that carries the air easily, "and who knows what hands will give
the best." After I named the people responsible for administering the estates' that were rooted
"outside the valley and the province, and concluded warning me that, as stated in the will,
to time he wrote those lines should not be anything to anyone, unless it was his soul to God, whose
mercy trusted and who called for the miracle that I feel some the wish to leave the bones in the
cemetery of Tablanca, having spent many years in the house of the Ruiz de Bejos.

Like other papers, although related to the flow of my uncle offered me no great interest, resigned
from his careful reading by then, and devote the time I had it to spare space imagination, eyes
closed, highly varied field of event that day. So he took me sleep near dawn. When I awoke,
the light shone in my cabinet by the fourth part that always left the door ajar in the sunshine.
I thought the light was brighter than it had greeted me in identical cases over the past fortnight,
or that the sun would be very high, which would not be so strange
that I had slept late night.

I looked at the hourglass that was at the head of the bed and saw that it was just after eight. Despite
the lack of sleep made me a good while longer, I rose and opened all the quadroon. The little
sky I saw from there was a blue satin and silk cloth, and sun bathing and all the peaks of
the West. Glistening rocks and logs and Bardales and soils everywhere, though, and felt a cold wet
and sticky down to the bone; but he was smiling and calm nature, and this raised a lot of
encouragement.


On hearing this order those of the crew who were not engaged at the windlass swarmed up the
rigging and threw off the gaskets of the foresail and mainsail, while a couple of hands ran
out on the bowsprit and unloosed the lashings of the jib, the topsails having been dropped
before I came on board.

"Man the topsail halliards!" then sang out the captain, and with a cheery cry the yards were
run up with a will and the halliards then belayed.

"Sheet home!" was the next command, whereupon the sails were stretched out to their full extent,
swelling out before the off-shore wind; and one of the men, by the captain's orders, now going
to the helm, a few turns of the spokes brought the vessel's head round.

"Now, look alive there forward and heave up the anchor!" shouted Captain Miles.

In another minute the stock of the kedge showed above the bows, when the catfalls being stretched
along the deck, and laid hold of by Moggridge, the rest of the crew tacking on after him, the
flukes were run up to the cat-head to a rhythmical chorus in which all hands joined, the men
pulling with a will as they yelled out the refrain--

"Yankee John, storm along!  Hooray, hooray, my hearties!  Pull away, heave away, Hooray, hooray,
my hearties!  Going to leave Grenada!"

The clew-garnet blocks now rattled as the main-sheet was hauled aft, when, the broad sail filling,
the Josephine paid off before the wind; and shortly afterwards she was making her way to leeward
towards Saint Vincent, passing almost within a stone's throw of Fort Saint George, as she cleared
the northern point of the harbour and got out to sea.

The jib and flying-jib were now hoisted as well as the topgallant-sails and spanker, to get
as much of the breeze as we could while it lasted, so that the vessel began to make fair progress
through the water; and the hands under the superintendence of the two mates were then set to
work coiling down ropes and getting in the slack of the sheets as well as making things ship-shape
amidships, where the deck was still littered with a good deal of cargo that had not yet been
properly stowed.

I was all this time standing by the side of Captain Miles on the poop, alternately looking
at the men jumping about the rigging like monkeys and at the fast-receding shore, which, as
soon as the sun set, became dimmer and dimmer in the distance, until it was at length finally
shut out from my gaze by a wall of mist.

"Fo'c's'le ahoy, there!" sang out Captain Miles presently, when it began to grow dusk.

"Aye, aye, sir!" responded the voice of Moggridge, the boatswain, from forward. Of the
timber had been great warriors and most distinguished citizens. Would merit of their harvest to
sow it their way? Anyway, my uncle's work must live ever, as many other generous benefactors
of their kind.

And here came, their steps are numbered, so while I was watching was coming.

- You're young - even told me - and done and accommodated the pier and spoiled life of the great
cities, and entirely strange, less by his blood, in this world stirs and small stirring among
the dark recesses of these regions great. Too bad - he said - all this together is an obstacle,
but not invincible, that the work of Don Celso Tablanca take you
on a passionate follower!

Because if you're not, who will be now?

Stretching a categorical answer to this suggestion as strict, send
me off with a "Who knows?

"half in jest, and this question must further from your subject to the knight:

- And in these districts, how are things?

- Oh - I responded in the act with a gesture that was as good as saying "do not talk about
that" --. Over here I would like to see Don Celso ... but who knows! ... What I can state that
I, with the pen, with the word, example, day, night, I have not stopped
my duty, to why I returned here, to devote all my time that, in that
I spend my health and my short flow ... everything but my perseverance,
which is indestructible ... but as if sown on a rock, for the very
deeply rooted bad again here, or I do not give good to remove her art.

Then, as if to orient to their taste on the ground that it was, began talk, as if he were reading a
book (such was the abundance, clarity and method which exposed me) of the patriarchal organization
of these peoples from the earliest "Brotherhood" that formed in the eleventh century simultaneously
with the Crusades, developing my eyes the vast picture of history since then here in features
as brief as vigorous and expressive, tying in with the facts and highlights of her most glorious,
those that humble race of dark mountain. Oh! I knew only vaguely pompous dithyrambs by my father
in his exaltation manor, how I learned that night, and with what pleasure, about the vicissitudes
interesting has happened that elusive corner of the world, so ignored that Cantabrian region of
strangers and even themselves! Then I understood what they were worth the books and archaeological
research of the man, for to claim for his "hometown" the glory that was denied in large, pulling
them the dust of the archives and under the crust of the earth.

Arriving by road so pleasant to the prosaic realm of present day and
try our starting point, as he calls it the "bad new" in those and
other rural counties, Dijon, interrupting what I had begun to expose
and conceived it as a necessary caveat:

- I must warn you that even
if they sometimes seem, I am, or a hundred miles, a blind passion
of all the past.

I think, because the view is that things are changing as time flies, and the Castilian proverb
that "other times, other customs and other laws, "but I, without ceasing to be a man that day, but
on the contrary, the same as I am, that these changes in the customs and laws are derived by its
own weight, say, of the nature of things themselves, that laws are accommodated mode of being
of peoples, not peoples to the laws of another party because it den good fruit. Not all sites
are equal to get a good seed, as we said by confining itself to the smallness of these regions
wild, I want, finally, that that has been enacted for good and the application has been bad,
even change, to prevent further disasters. And with that proviso, I keep saying that the impossibility
that such deep-rooted evils are removed with the isolated work of men of good will, I would
say the state from here: "Take, on the concept that pleases you most, what in good and strict
justice we owe to our poverty to raise the common charges of the country, but leave the rest
to make it what we see fit, let us our commons, our wise ordinances, our traditional councils
free, in end (and saying to the fashion of the day), our municipal autonomy, and Christ with
all. "If thus can not be achieved so I'm looking for Don Celso achieved in the valley, he would
walk nearby. But why did she give himself that if he is to live a disastrous system that governs
us and which deny and his most fervent admirers? Or rather, how they live without the protection
of it, as it is, men used today and govern us? How are they to be masters of life and flow
if you do not have in their hands all the threads which it leads to the most hidden corners of the
nation's will, the threat and blow the real tyranny a thousand times worse than death ...
And full stop, because if I continue where I go, I lose my temper.

Neluco and I had heard that charmed him most gladly welcome, especially Neluco, who was a cantabrazo
as a hill, and as the session had been long and women entered from before to warn us that dinner
was ready and ask your master if it served had already struck eight in the hourglass of "back
there", the point decided in the affirmative Neluco and I, for one
delegation courteous, took possession of the servant light, left the
office before us, and we all three at the dining room, another room
was quite shabby and very cold, located north of the house.

XV

The dinner was not very varied, but plentiful and tasty. They all partook of sound character
and austere lord of the tower. Meat and milk in two or three ways, and some fruit of the earth.
More or less, as my uncle.

But he needed amenity to the dinner by own simplicity, and I found
ourselves Neluco well done on the word of our noble host.

The man was a well full, brimming with knowledge, and deployed as jumping lips It jets. Native
soil was soaked in blood mass, and everywhere walking with their imaginations and their speeches,
was to stop him, and he spoke up with the strange language of poets or historians or geographers
of antiquity he had been brought to account in their verses or books immortal. And in this task committed,
sometimes had unexpected and sudden exit lane, but not the scope of their dissertations, really
great. Had shown, eg, in a beautiful period, how the region mountain in northern Spain was settled
by the Greeks before the Phoenicians, with texts Mela and Strabo, according to which these historians
found in the Greek customs Cantabria independent until the time of Augustus, adding a long
list of others still exist today in those valleys, as the wedding song, translation, and perhaps music,
the nuptial Greeks, and lamentation for the dead, and suddenly jumped to conclusive statement that
the famous "Jack" who not only sings in Aragon and Valencia, but in Navarra and higher, until
the birth of the Ebro valley Campóo that was more Spanish than African (I never dreamed it could
be that doubt!). And then came the highly original proofs.

- Also - I remember I said - we retain in the Mountain Warrior men dance alone zorcico like the
Basque and 'raw dance "of Asturias, children, all of the dances Celtic Celtiberian that on
moonlit nights was held to one God vaguely known.

I do not know if this was credible at the foot of the letter and sound foundation for his thesis, but
course was nice and spark escaped from hammering on the main, far
more serious and demonstrable.

I also took to square excursions and entertainment since he arrived from Madrid. I told him where
he had gone and the highest peak that had risen in the company of
Don Sabas.

- Well, the observatory was chosen - he answered - though
I know better yet known as Don Sabas, although not as handy as that,
which is enough to admire Nature in one of its most resplendent a
novice at these things.

From the observatory - continued excited - you would back the snow always rocks in which they
live at home chamois, below the dark green of the oak with the clarity of you ... finally, lebaniense
oasis where vineyards and olive vegetate as in Andalusia, as in Rioja
and Aragon whose summit he could see the other side along the rolling
motion of the Ebro Looking North, columbraría our sea, our tremebundo
Biscay, and to the south, the vast plains of Castilla la Vieja.

Beautiful chair for a history lesson Montañesa! ... While away, the rock is also distinguished
slice for closing a hatch port Alibaba and the cliff where the wave
came to the conclusion rejected Mohammedan Covadonga; East, after
Reinosa and swampy plain of the Vilga, a mountain suddenly cut as
a Titan's hand, leaving a sharp isolated peak: that is the Horn of
Bezana "and his own standing there are two natural wonders: the cave
of Sotos-Cueva, which so no one has touched, because most probably
just in wonder: an underground lake where join the waters around the
valley.

There was another battle like at the Covadonga century, although it was so held because they
were winning the Moors in Cordoba. Al foot of another mountain range that is clear to the South and
return to this chaining the Ebro, Brañosera, and just below Aguilar de Campo, the lair of bears and eagles nest,
beginning another stream of men no less fierce, after ravaging the command of Alfonso I, areas were
repopulated slowly Gothic Spaniards. In order to finish this soon outline the big picture that
can only be assessed from that point of view, if you wanted recreate his own in the contemplation
of another beauty more than natural, it also would find it Due to the hands of man would cross
his mind to fire the hill where he was chopping Juliobriga, lightning piercing mountains, and
along with it its plume of smoke bounces and disappears into the valleys, divisaría on the
beach end of your trip, Santander. My eyes still have one by one main palaces and houses, and towering
over all, of God, the Cathedral. Well to be many and large these wonders you saw may be even
more and bigger. Good chance you have it now, because the observatory is less far away than
Tablanca, and I gladly offered me to serve you guide.

I appreciated the invitation to the soul, but I excused myself to accept, based on the promise
made my uncle back home the next day, and in the professional duties of my companion, which obliged
him not to depart for a long time his party. Strictly speaking, I felt I was very little temptation
of what is offered me, because my body was not made henna to macerated again with no other
stimulant stronger than seeing a somewhat more extensive that he had seen.

- As you like - I answered the obliging gentleman - and what more pleasing and comfortable it is.

Speaking
of the way we had been there from Tablanca could not be omitted from the the home of Gomez de
Pomar, nor the meeting with one of them in the village above. This whole story very great attention
paid to our host, but without saying a word for neither after him.

All impressions exploded in a gesture and a gesture in showing through, flashing, disgust and
pity.

The desktop had lasted nearly two hours, as we pointed out the gentleman judging we would like to
rest, and as this was the truth, but we were well entertained his hand, God ended the conversation,
our respective bedrooms condújonos encerréme and I in mine, staring
at the bed, old-fashioned way, but clean and well padded, as the most
seductive temptation many felt since I left at dawn Tablanca that day.

I fell into bed like a log down, doubtful, in the twilight of my drowsiness, among If I tear
down the losses of my tiring day all day, or the weight of the heap of "things" that I had
eaten in the sleepy brain solariego the inexhaustible erudition. Celtíberos, Agrippa, legionnaires,
Augusto, Cantabria, Goths, Mohammedans, Guadalete, Covadonga Don
Pelayo, the Crusades, Sotos-Cueva, resplendent landscapes, bloody
fields of battle, steep cliffs, black and roaring abysses, the Cantabrian
war dances in the light of the moon, the laments for the dead ...
all this time and moved in rechispeaba darkness of my head, and the
discordant sound of their noise and the weight of his fierce shock,
I fell asleep.

But he kept the dance of the issue for giving me visions of my dream
delusions.

That seemed the end of the world of Roman legions tumbling down the slopes of the mountains,
bodies of African armies swollen gorges de Covadonga and drowning in their own blood that ran through
the dark background of all the canyons, then fled terrified of the fierce persecution of Montagnards,
another mass of survivors Mohammedans, Peak climbing up from the
howling of the storm, to go to the falling down to the opposite side
and get turned into piles of corpses with red water Deva, to disappear
into the fierce waves of the stormy Bay of Biscay, which also helped
the Christians against the Moors.

Eagles and vultures hovering over those butchers appalling ripping itself peaks own exterminator
to consummate the work of mesnaderos brave of Mr. Goths Cantabria
caves endless, dark, huge dens, cold and slimy, full of Moors and
Romans, butchered and stinking; inextricable forests in which they
lost the trail and breathing, rock chops over unfathomable depths,
groans screams of agony from lawless freedom, valleys flooded with
light laughing, dancing, singing and games in their pastures pompous,
and peace and abundance in rustic home, then the black cloud filled
with lightning and hail, going about it blown by the breath of men
bad, destroying everything, making the fields fertile and sterile
bartering in hatred and war relentless and continuous love and peace
that prevailed among its inhabitants before.

And all this, in the battlefields, in the ravines, on steep slopes, everywhere which was clear,
or Roman, or people enemies of the Christian faith or of nations freedoms common or calm or
the dictates of justice, saw, fast as lightning, fierce as a lion, a long, lean man, riding in
a hack of low stature, without a helmet or armor, bareheaded and bathed in light, wild hair and
beard bristling, entering through the thickest of the fray, the spear enristrada .. What say lance!
a pillar two points, and disrupting enemy and throwing them into
the air, such as straw with the fork; After flying, rather than jumping
on the earth, the woods, and fighting tirelessly invincible even with
the heavy clouds of lightning and hail and the bad men pushed against
the holy liberty of the people and the sacred privileges of justice.

And the indefatigable and unconquerable man, strange to say ... which was the manor house was
I spent the night.

All it took me a nightmare, without a moment's rest, and I can tell, because when I woke up with
the strength of emotion that I was the last "pitchforks" of Knight, directed against one of the
bad men who pushed the black cloud, and proved to be a person of Madrid whom I knew a lot
of view and fame, saw the light entering the fourth part of the my bedroom window was left half-closed
to bed. Then jumped the finish bed awake and thereby appease the restless spirit, and looked at the
quadroon ajar. Another surprise! In the immediate fencing was the rough dress Mansion anchors
and sandals, reaping more and more a shoot appeared dotted velvet brightly, and behind him
was another mower that however often the "windrows" in "'the strip of lawn that belonged to it,
I could not bite the sabots. With such drive and such ease "pulling" the ancestral Dallas. For
the "Colombia" that was lying now and the time marked my hourglass, a little after seven o'clock,
I assumed that he had begun the task to dawning.

In this knocked on the door of my room Neluco was going to wake up, because it was a long way
we waited and we should take advantage of the morning every effort to tread it. Entered, and while
I aviaba, I told him in detail what the dream, after having taught from the ancestral paneled
on the prairie. He was interested in the story of my nightmare, but not the least surprised
to see the gentleman mowing, and so early, because he was well known and knew early in the morning than
the sun.

An hour later we ate breakfast in the dining room ancestral company, not so smart and at night
but neat and clean and much better dressed than when mowing. Remembered there be our mid-morning
departure at the latest, and to make good use of limited time we had available until then, was shortened
after dinner and took us to the obsequious host Neluco together, a good utility that dominated
the valley, on which gave me new curious reports and concluded by advising me not to do if hydrologists
holding The springs are leaks from Híjar Ebro, because he had estimated levels of both rivers,
and was much higher than that of the first than the second, not counting with the waters of
both are of different color.

Then I talked about the tower that looked good from there, and so on she said, to agree in whole
or in large part to many other similar Mountain, deserves the honors not be forgotten. The building
has been uninhabited since the fifteenth century, and dilapidated, therefore, particularly on the
inside, why me 'explained' the ancestral from outside and follows, word or less:

- The willingness to have their floors (low, cellar and salting of meat, the main it seems was
receiving and banquet hall, and the last two which communicate via
traps at the end of each step) shows that the domestic or the masters
were wary.

In The top floor windows are tall and decorated with stone seats on either side, that would serve the
Castilian and daughters or servants to engage in sex work. Repair you do not have slots, but an
extension of the parapet wall or, at higher altitudes The roof, whose water flows to the outside
by stone gargoyles. And if this parapet served to offend those who attempted to undermine the
foundations of the tower, the provision of ferrada door, you see, not the means but on one side
of the facade of the West, to believe that flanked the entrance through a balcony ledge, stone battlements
or loopholes, located in the center and the height of the first floor, where now the window
is square, poorly accommodated to the output arc is kept inside, and there in the other two
fronts, warheads fitted windows or clubs, while the North has only the loopholes or loopholes
of all ... See you on the door a small shield, is perhaps the only one preserves the primitive
were used, because it has no crest or helmet, and on the fringe of two rivers, crudely designed,
they are weapons and military trophies, even more confusing, some taken by unknown letters,
and others are heads of snakes crave when it was they who were not
familiar with catapults, scorpions and lumps used as machines offensive
before the invention of gunpowder, or the boiler and banner, emblem
of the rich-men or leaders of retinue.

These signals and the certainty that in Spain not included weapons lineage to the late twelfth
century, and soon after pointed architecture was introduced that note on the door and fenestration
of the tower construction set me early XIII century, perhaps by the same man whose castle rocker
just below here was overthrown in a rebellion penalty which at that time used to promote home
Lara, widespread in many branches of this valley and the immediate, and repressed with a strong
hand by King Fernando, as her granddaughter Isabella of Castile died
in the camps this tower and others noted.



"Humph!" observed Mr Marline slyly in his dry way; "I think she gave you one or two on account
before she performed the happy despatch, eh?"

"Funny dog!" exclaimed Captain Miles, giving him a dig in the ribs by way of acknowledging
the allusion to the thumps poor Brindle had treated him to, before she came on board and after;
and, there, the matter ended, as far as everybody was concerned, the steward recovering from
his fainting fit, and the eyes of Davis the second mate being none the worse as it turned out
for their deluge of hot pea-soup, while the damages in the cabin were soon repaired.  Only
the poor cow came to grief!

CHAPTER SEVEN.

AMONGST THE ISLANDS.

In spite of all Captain Miles' endeavours to effect an early start from Saint Vincent, we were
not really able to weather the island that evening until many hours after our anchor was tripped
and all plain sail made.

This was not due, however, either to the delay caused in hoisting the obstreperous cow on board
or to the embarrassing episode that occurred after she was shipped.  It was entirely owing
to the failure of our moving spirit the wind; for we lay becalmed until morning under the lee
of the giant Souffriere, whose dark shadow prevented the land breeze from reaching the vessel,
while the next day was far advanced before we could gain an offing so as to take advantage
of the light airs that then sprang up from seaward.  But, then, the Josephine, bellying out
her canvas, bore away on her voyage.

The wide gulf of sea which we were traversing--named after the aboriginal Caribs who ruled
over its domain lang syne, and hedged in from the Atlantic Ocean by the semicircular group
of the Lesser Antilles, or "Windward Islands" of the West Indies--presents great difficulties
to the navigators of sailing ships; as, while the wind throughout its extent blows almost constantly
in one direction, a series of cross currents set in another, making it a hard task for even
experienced seamen to preserve a straight course towards any particular point when going to
windward, the result of which is that "the longest way round," as in other matters pertaining
to shore life, is frequently "the shortest way home!"

Taking up the chart casually, a novice would imagine that our direct route from our port of
departure to the English Channel would be indicated by a line drawn between the two points
and passing through the Azores; but, a sailor accustomed to tropical latitudes would know that,
however feasible this might appear in theory, we could not possibly have adopted such a course.
It would have presupposed, in the first case, our possessing the ability to sail straight in
the teeth of the north- east trade wind, and, in the second case, that we took no account of
the influence of the equatorial current, the stream of which setting westwards into the Caribbean
Sea, would have drifted as so far to leeward that at the end of the day's run we must have
been pretty nearly where we started from, any progress we made ahead being neutralised by the
action of the stream carrying us in a lateral direction.

For these reasons, all navigators up to their work, when making the passage home from the West
Indies and vice versa, instead of fighting against the forces of nature as some old seamen
of the past used to do, now make both winds and tides run harmoniously in their favour by meeting
them half-way, so to speak.  Captain Miles, in our instance, therefore, did not wear out his
crew by trying to beat to windward in order to get to the open Atlantic immediately.  On the
contrary, he kept his vessel well away to leeward, shaping a course for Saint Christopher's,
so as to pass afterwards through the Anegada Channel, between the Virgin Islands, and reach
the ocean in that way.  In other words, following the example of the ready-witted Irishman
who drove an obstinate pig to market by pulling him back by the tail, he deliberately steered
to the north-west while really wanting to go to the north-east. All faces turned in surprise.

- What are you laughing at, Michael? - Asked his aunt.

- Me, recontra,
on me - Enrique shouted desperately.

- Come, silence! - Dona Martina
said face severe with him .-- Do you feel like take them again?

Miguel does not laugh at you ... Why was laughing, sappy? ...

- Why yes ... I well know ... Because he is a hypocrite!

...

- Silence, I say ... and eat!

Miguel had been very seriously, realizing that he had committed a rudeness, and that the concealed
by being invited. For a long time may get suppressed, making for this titanic effort. Henry had
his big eyes fixed on him bulging full of anger, guessing exactly what you walked inside. If you
looked up and saw that face brat uglier still with anger, was lost. Why not move the plate
a moment, devouring the stew that had served her aunt, without chewing snacks. At one moment, however,
that by chance or by magnetic attraction found their eyes. And could no longer. Another stream
of laughter, the beans scattered on the table, the faces of the guests
returned back to him.

But this time there were more serious than astonishment painted on
them, mostly that of his uncle.

- What is it, Michael?

"- He said with apparent calmness .-- Why are we so cheerful?

Miguel was very red, and said nothing.

- Do you laugh at it because your cousin have been punished for offenses that the two have
committed? ... That is not right, Michael, that's not right .... You ought to be a little more
generous ..... If You do not have stuck, not because we do not deserve, as you well know, but
because your aunt does not have authority.

But fortunately for everyone, and for you too - she added, looking Colonel, smiling maliciously,
- soon will not miss time and place who have things in order, that failure is doing good. So,
buddy, maybe you touch Enrique laugh at you, but neither would do
well ..... The good Christian education and morals prohibited evil
laugh of others .....

Michael, who had grown increasingly red at
this point began to mourn, and fell face down on the table.

D. Bernard smiled with satisfaction the success achieved by oratory. Doña Martina immediately
went to comfort the child.

- Come on, Mickey, do not cry, silly .... If your uncle loves you very much ..... Do not take it
amiss that tells you ..... If he ..... You're a good boy, I know, and they know it all .....
If you are unable Enrique laugh at because they have stuck ..... You would not laugh at that?

Miguel
declined to speak, because I did not lie, nor call her ugly cousin. Continued still some time with
his nose tucked the tablecloth as in protest against malicious reluctance
of his uncle.

At last, overcome by the prayers and praise of aunt, raised his head: that was quick to dry your tears
and mucus with its own handkerchief. Again took the fork and continued eating.

The conversation turned away, at the initiative of the D. Bernardo, on the absolute necessity
his brother had brought home a woman, a view already heard not long
ago issued time.

- If my brother is determined to remain single,
much more it would get rid of furniture and went to live at an inn
.....

It should be noted that D. Bernardo considered as living in
catering point less than a disgrace: not vulgar tread these establishments,
where people are confused ridiculously around the round table, have
always sought people who visited a house respect (so called) where
there were more guests than he.

This will include contemptuous turning easily gave the word inn when he passed his lips.

- Do not know whether V. have noticed, D. Pablo - continued to address the colonel (a rarely Hojeda
gave him this honor), - why mess Fernando is at home ..... Rarely found one thing on his site:
anda scattered dust the furniture, the servants they please.

I spent more than once to go there and have no one to take off my coat. If you say V., Colonel,
that once my brother was to move out of his shirt, and could not, because There was no gangplank!

-
Hum! - He, "in admiration, but without removing the senses of roast-beef before him.

- What horror - Dona Martina exclaimed, as he always spoke of this event is unprecedented:
we know that his forte was the iron.

- See V., see V. How does your
child eat !..... dropping meat and chewed on the plate!

Miguel blushed to his ears again.

- Come on, Bernard, let him now - he said his wife, and going after
the Colonel: - Learn V., friend Bembo, women are most needed at home
than to V. he imagines.

- No doubt, no doubt - muttered, his eyes
huge plate.

- And if you doubt V., rascal, why not follow V. the
example of my brother?

- Madam, I am not yet ready.



Soon after sunrise next morning we weathered Sombrero, the last of the Antilles, and thus got
fairly out into the Atlantic, leaving the West Indies behind us as we hauled our wind and bore
away for the Azores-- although a long stretch of ocean had to be crossed ere we might hope
to reach this half-way port on our voyage.

But I have not yet described our ship and those on board.

The Josephine was an old-fashioned barque of about five hundred tons burden, built with a high
poop and a topgallant forecastle, "or fo'c's'le," as seamen call it.

She was a roomy vessel, possessing great breadth of beam, which made her a staunch sea-boat
in rough weather, for she could tumble about as much as she pleased without causing much damage
to her timbers or risk of her stability; and this roominess, besides, allowed good accommodation
aft for a large number of passengers, although in this instance I was the single solitary "landsman"
aboard--that is, if a young shaver of thirteen can be dignified with such a high-sounding title! I have to do at home. "

While this mother and daughter talking in the living room and Ponte Obdulia chatted about that,
telling the girl who never forgive his brother that he brought the family a person so ordinary
and Juliana, who said diferiencia, parapet and other atrocities. There would never good friends.
By leaving, he kisses Juliana Obdulia, Frasquito and a handshake, offering to iron our shirts,
the current price, and turn their clothes, so same or less than what the tailor would take
cheaper. In addition, he also knew she cut for men, and if I wanted to try, encargárale a suit,
that would not less elegant fixed that you do portal cutters that he wore. All his clothes Antonio
it was her, and say whether the boy was wrong ... See! For him his uncle Boniface an American
who had been released to go to town (Glass Gallows) on the Ghost, and therefore there like
the garment, which it borrowed the mayor to cut another by it. Ponte thanked, skeptical, gallantly,
with regard to abilities of women for making men's clothes, and fired them at the door, helping
to load the various packages, and packages atadijos joyful carried.

XXXVII

Not wanting to be inferior to her sister Obdulia, or appear
at home with less authority and chulita Mangoneo that the intruder
told her mother that she could not manage decently with a servant
to all, and as Juliana won the cook, she imposed the maiden ... Well!

They talked for a while, the girl gave such reasons in support of the new official, who did
not Francisca choice but to recognize their need. Yes, yes: how they would proceed without maid?
To play such an important position, had already chosen a girl fine Obdulia educated in the
service of big houses, and that was free at the time, living with Browning family and the funeral
decorations. Daniela was called, was a beauty from the figure, and a portent of industrious
activity. Anyway, Doña Paca, so painting hoped that soon the girl was fine to recreate the service
had to pay.

At night was Hilaria, which opened Dona Francisca giving a message of Juliana, the which looked
more like an order.

He said his cousin who did not think the lady in doing more shopping and when noticing the
lack of something necessary, we will notify her that nobody knew how address gender and out good
and neat. Item: Mrs. to be reserved at least half the pension money to go play the countless items
of clothing and other objects they were in Peniscola, giving preference to papers with maturity
was the fall, and so in a few months could regain much anything helpful. Mrs. Held Paca warning
the happy Juliana, who was anticipating it, and offered to follow promptly, or rather obey.
As his head was so dizzy, the effect of the unprecedented events of those days, the absence
of Benin, and why not say so? the scent of flowers perfumed the house, had not gone through the lie
to review the reams of papers in several folders kept as gold cloth. But I would, yes ma'am, I would
... and if Julie wanted to charge a commission as annoying as the play, the better.
  Up to that time I had been too much interested with the moving panorama
around me to notice things inboard; and, besides, the motion of the Josephine, when she got
lively in the seaway amongst the islands, produced an uneasy feeling which led me ere long
to retire below and bewail my old home and those from whom I had been so ruthlessly severed
with greater grief than I had felt before.  I suffered from that fearful nausea which Father
Neptune imposes as a penance on the majority of his votaries, and it was wonderful how very
melancholy the sensation made me. He was in the car door, and the boys got stuff in it with the barbarous
quickly that used in this operation. From his vantage Benina recognized the decrepit furniture,
bent, and could not contain his excitement at seeing them. It was almost his, of its existence,
and they saw, as in a mirror, the image of their sorrows and joys; I thought that if approached,
the poor tackle had to say something, or cry with it. But what was strongly impressed to see
out through the portal and Obdulia Dona Paca, with Polidura and Juliana, as if it were a new home,
while the maids are elegant remained in the former, providing for collection and transportation
of offal, and all the trash home.

Troubled and confused, Nina hid in a doorway, to see without being seen. What impaired Dona
Francisca found! He wore a new dress, but so heinous appearance, as cut and sewn in a hurry, it
seemed like the poor lady dressed in alms. Covered his head with a robe, and held a sombrerote
Obdulia with deformed flourish and feathers. Doña Paca walked slowly, staring at the floor, overwhelmed,
sad, as if carried by guards civilians. The girl laughed, chatted with Polidura. Juliana was behind
herding them all, and sending them they were in a hurry by the way that marked them. No more than he
needed to look like wood to that on Christmas Eve the streets leading flocks of turkeys. How dawned
despotism in the smallest movements! Doña Paca was the humble response that goes where the lead,
even at the slaughterhouse, Juliana and the shepherd who leads. Disappeared the Plaza Mayor,
the street of keypads ... Benina took steps to see the sad cattle and when he lost it, wiped
the tears flooding her face.

"Poor dear lady! - Said the blind man as he met him -. I love her as a sister, because together
we spent many penalties. I was all for it, and it all for me. Forgive me my faults, I will
forgive their own ... How sad it is, perhaps thinking of how bad ported with Nina! It seems
that rheumatism is worse, so lame, and his face is not have eaten in four days. I brought cherry-picked,
I was cheating with good shade, hiding our misery, and putting my face in shame for him to eat according
to what was his taste and custom ... In short, the past, and said the other, it happened. Come
on, Almudena, let's go here, and God put you well soon to take the little road to Jerusalem,
not and scares me by far. Walking, walking, child, comes from a part of the world to another,
and if one hand we get the benefit of fresh air and see new things, on the other we get the
certainty that everything is the same, and that parts of the world are a guess, as the world
in together, you say, that wherever people live, or verbigracia, women, be ingratitude, selfishness,
and ones that send to others and will catch them. As we must do what conscience commands us,
and let those who fight for a bone, like dogs, the other over a toy, as children, or those by
bully, as older, and not to quarrel with anybody, and take what God put us ahead, like the
birds ... Come to the Hospital, and do not be sad.

- Me not sad - said Almudena -; be satisfied tigo ... God you know
how things tudas and I quiries you and Angela Bunite ... And if you
do not want to marry me, this be your mother mine, and I was a child
Bunite yours.

- Well, man, that's fine.

- And you com palm desert
D'granda, Bunite thou zucena branca com ... Illyricum you ... Telling
me Amri you: my soul.

"

As I was the unhappy pair Hospital Road, Doña Paca and his entourage,
in a different direction, they approached their new house, rue de
Orellana, a third clean with paper and stucco brand-new, good lighting,
ventilation, excellent cuisine, and price accommodated to the circumstances.

It seemed too good to Dona Francisca, when up came, smothered the
endless stairs and if he felt bad, careful not to show it, abdicating
in all their will and opinions.

The flexible, more flexible, flabby character of the widow, was adapted to the feeling and
thinking Juliana, and seeing this that it ran between the fingers
that bread crumbs, pellets made with it.

Doña Paca not breathe without the permission of the tyrant, who for the most insignificant acts of
life, had quite a few orders that dictate to the unhappy lady. It came to having a childhood fear,
it felt soft crumb inside the bronze hand beading and indeed it was not just afraid, for he mingled
with some respect and admiration.

Lay the lady from the bustle of the day, and stuck all the furniture, dishes and pots in the new
house and attacked an intense sadness that devoured the soul, called her tirana to say, "You
have not explained well by the way we speak. What stories Nina has its moro? Is this good-looking?
".

Juliana gave the explanation that he asked his subject, without hurting
Nina and put it in wrong place demonstrated in this fine touch.

"And stay ... that it can not come to me, for fear that plague us from getting filthy. You did
well.

If not for you, I would be exposed, God knows, we stick to the plague ... Get over that would collect
leftover food.

But this is not enough, and I would happy to point out a number, for example, a penny daily. What?

- I say that if we start with those jokes, Mrs. Dona Paca, Peñaranda again soon. No, No: a quarter
is a quarter ... Pretty Nina has two real.

So I thought, and if you have something else, I wash my hands.

- Two real, two ... You have said ... and simply, yes.

Do you know the miracles that Nina half penny? ".

In this Daniela was very alarmed, saying Frasquito knocked on the door, and Obdulia, that the
sight had seen, felt that it was opened, to avoid another scandal such as Imperial Street.
But who told him the address of the new home? No Polidura doubt was the snitch, and Juliana
is sworn to snatch his ear. The mishap occurred Get serious while calling with nervous fury, determined
to break the bell, rose Hilaria street and opened the latch-key and there was no possible way
to cut the intruder, who rushed in, appearing before the frightened ladies with their hats pulled
down ears, brandishing the cane, the great detriment and clothing stained with dirt and mud.
It He had twisted his mouth, and painfully dragged his right leg.

"By God, Frasquito - Doña Paca said pleading - we do not riot. You are wrong, and should go to
bed. "

Obdulia also went out emphatically declaiming "Frasquito: a person
like you, so fine, in good society, say such things!

... Please view, back to consciousness.

- Lady and Madame - Ponte said desencasquetándose hat with great difficulty
-.

Caballero I am and I know how to deal with price of elegant ladies, but as of this has left the
absurd species, I come to ask for explanations. My honor demands it ...

- What have we to do with the honor of you, so scarecrow? - Cried Juliana -. Ea decent person who is
not lacking in the ladies! The other day was for you empresses and now ...

- And now - Ponte said, trembling at the strong accent of Juliana, as wind whipped cane -. And
now ... I do not disrespect the ladies. Obdulia is a lady, Doña Francisca
another lady.

But these ladies ladies ... I have been slandered, I have hurt my
feelings more pure claiming that I made the cut to Benina ... and
that required at rogue loves to by me and me missing the loyalty owed
to the gentleman from Saudi ...

- If we do not have said such nonsense!

-
All Madrid repeats ... Here in these rooms came the unworthy species.

They accuse me of an infamous crime: having laid eyes on an angel, white wings celica purity
immaculate. Know that I respect the angels, if Nina was mortal creature, would not have respected,
because I'ma man ... I have tasted blondes and brunettes, married, widows and maids, Spanish
and Parisian, and no I have resisted, because I deserve it ... Permanent Beauty I am ... But
I have not seduced angels, nor the allure ... Sepal you Frasquita, sepal, Obdulia ... The Nina
is not of this world ... Nina belongs to the sky ... Dressed in poverty has begged to keep you
and me ... and women that do, I do not seduce, I can not seduce her, I can not woo ... My beauty
is human, and divine it; My face is splendid mortal flesh, and it's light blue ... No, no, I have
not seduced was not mine, is of God ... And I tell you, Curra Juarez, Ronda, to you, now can
not move, what you weighed in the ingratitude body ... Yo, I am grateful I'm a boom, and flight ...
as you see ... You, being ungrateful is lead, and is crushed against the ground ... as you see
...».

Mother and daughter distraught, screaming for help from neighbors.

But Juliana, more courageous and expeditiously, unable to endure calmly irrelevant ravings of
unhappy Ponte, it was angry at him, took him by the lapels, and comiéndoselo with the look and
voice said: "Unless you start early this house, so mess, you throw him off the balcony."

And surely he would have done, if Hillary and Daniela cogieran not the poor son of Algeciras, putting
in two pulls out of the door. Presented themselves doormen and neighbors, attracted to the
uproar, and saw many people gathered, the four women went to the landing of steps to explain
that this man had lost his mind, the more chips attentive and courteous person in the world,
the most importunate and shameless. Frasquito fell limp to the next plateau: there he stood, looking
up, and said: "Ungrateful, ingrrr ...». Wanted end of the word, and a violent contortion denounced
the futility of their efforts. Of His mouth did not go more than a hoarse roar, as if invisible
hand strangle him. Were all to be decomposed horribly factions, eyes popped out of the helmet,
mouth approached one ear ... He raised his arms, breathed a sigh! distressing, and collapsed
at once. In the fall of his body shook from top to bottom all the flimsy ladder.

Subiéronle four to the house to provide relief, he did not need the unhappy. Reconociole Juliana,
and said dryly: "It is as dead as my grandfather."

Final

Admirable example of the effects of human will in the governance of large and small groups of
beings, was Juliana, unprincipled woman, who could barely read and write, but he had received
from Nature the rare gift of organizing life and govern the actions of others. If you fell under
the hands of Zapata family would have played more stem family rule, or an island, or state, would
have gone very graceful. In the island of Dona Francisca established with a firm hand to normal
a month after wielded the reins, and all went right there and no one dare not put rebullía question
their irrevocable mandates. True that to get this beautiful result used pure absolutism, the
regime of terror, his genius did not admit even timid comments: His
law was his holy will, his logic, the stick.

In the anemic character of the mother and the children are not coming bad this system, tested
and Antonio with happy success. Came to exercise such dominion over Dona Francisca, the poor
widow would not even pray the Our Father without asking your permission to the dictator, and
even warned before sighing, as so often did, watching her as if to say: "No I will carry the wrong
way a little sigh. " In all was obeyed blindly by Juliana Mom politics, except one thing. Mandábale
that was not always sad, and although the slave responded with statements of compliance, it
was put to see that the order was not fulfilled. Entered, So Zapata's widow in prosperous normal existence
with his head down, the droopy eyes, looking vaguely lost in the drawings of the mat, the body
lounging, fond every day with the indolence, the decadent appetite,
moody and surly mood, ideas black.

Fifteen days after settling in the street Dona Francisca de Orellana, who judged the bossy
His power would be more effective and better governed the family would live together: general
and subordinates. Trasladose, then, and there was putting his humble furnishings, and their
kids, and the mistress, for which previously made hole, throwing out the sea of ​​plant pots
and vases, and putting in the street to Daniela, who in fact served
no more than a hindrance.

A functions Chancellor of the girl soon added, and vanity of her mother and sister. Thus all stayed
home.

But as there is no complete happiness in this naughty world, a month or so, the move, indicated
in the ephemeris zapatescas by the disastrous death of Frasquito Ponte Delgado, Juliana began
to suffer strange changes in your health. Which by its lush had shown strength in comparison to the
mules, was the folly of suffering as contrary to their natural perfect balance. What was it? Nervous
and gusts humbugs hysteria, disorders that Juliana had laughed more
than once, attributing them to fuss women and self-perceived mimosas,
which, she said, husbands cured syrup ash.

Juliana began badly for insomnia rebels got up every morning without slept a wink, a few days
of insomnia began to lose their appetite, and, finally, not Sleeping added fearful and anxious fears
at night, and a melancholy day black, heavy, funereal. The worst thing for the family was that
with these annoying alifafes not attenuated the absolute ruler of the tyrant, but it was getting
worse.

Antonio was proposing to remove walk, walk and she sent him a hundred thousand pairs of demons.
Made himself indifferent, and foul-mouthed, rude, obnoxious.

Finally, his hysterical obsessions were condensed into one, on the idea that twins not in good health.
Worth anything extraordinary evidence of the robustness of the children. With care around them,
and lengthy and meticulous care in put conservation, resented, made
them mourn.

At night we threw the bed ensuring creatures that swam in blood, their throats slit by a murderer
invisible. If coughing, was that drowning, if they ate poorly, was that they had been poisoned.

One
morning he got out, with a shawl and headscarf, and went to neighborhoods Benina looking South,
with whom he was to speak. And by God did not spend a few hours to find it, because they no
longer lived in Santa Casilda, but in the fifth hell, that is in Toledo road on the left of
the bridge. There he found irksome after investigations, whirling and detours for those lost villages.
He lived alone with I dwell in a house, which looked more like hut, located on the grounds
that dominate the road to the south. Almudena was improving of the disgusting skin disease,
but still looked his masked face nasty scab: never left the house, and was all alone Happy Birthday
to earn a living begging in San Andrés. Juliana little surprised not to see it in looks good health,
and also happy, calm the spirit, and well established in the foundation
conformity with their lot.

"I come to quarrel with you, Sena Benina - said sitting on a stone in front of the shack next
to the trough in which the poor woman washed, at a respectful distance
from the blind, echadito in the shade -.

Yes, ma'am, because you got to go pick up the leftovers in our home, and did not seem that
way, nor have we seen him hair.

- Well, I say, Madam Juliana - said Nina -. You can believe that there has been contempt, not lady,
it was not contempt. Is not what I needed. I have other food from home, which and what I get enough
for us, and so, well you give to other poor, and to his conscience is the same ... What do
you know? What who gives me food? I see you quite curious. Well I that blessed charity to
D. Romualdo Kidron ... I've met in San Andres, where it says Mass ... Yes, ma'am, D. Romualdo, who
is a saint, so you know ... And I am sure After much thought, other
than the D. Romualdo that I invented, but one that looks like seem
to him as two drops of water.

Invent a few things that come after truth, or truths, prior to truth, a guess, lies are too fat ...
With it already knows. "

Edger declared that she was glad much of what he heard to refer, and that since Don Romualdo
favored it, Doña Paca and she would give up their leftover food to other needy. But something
more had to say: "I am indebted to you, Benin, because my mother arranged for political, who
rule with a silk thread, I point out to you two reales a day ...
As no We have seen it anywhere, I could meet you, but I weigh, I weigh
in actual consciousness both day and bring them here in fifteen pesetas,
making the whole month, Sena Benina.

- Well, I take it, yes indeed
- said Nina joyful -, that this is nothing to sneeze ... They come
to me pesetillas such as falls from heaven, because I have a debt
to the Pitusa, Midi Street Grande, and we fixed what was giving me
collect, and peseta to drive revenue.



The command was then given to lower away, when, the anchor being deposited on the deck of the
forecastle, it was made snug close to the foremast bitts, so that it could not shift its new
moorings as the vessel rolled.

The chain-cable was next unshackled from the ring in the anchor-stock and rattled down into
the locker in the fore-peak; after which, the starboard hawse-hole was plugged up to prevent
any water from finding its way below through the orifice.  Thus, in a very little time, half
the task the captain had set the men to do was accomplished, the seamen working with a will
and singing cheerily as they laid on to the falls of the tackle, "yo-ho-heaving" all together,
and pulling with might and main.

The other anchor, however, being to leeward, was a little more difficult to manage, for it
was submerged every now and then as the ship canted over, pitching her bows into the sea and
splashing the spray up over the yard-arm; but, sailors are not soon daunted when they have
a job on hand, and soon the shank painter of this was also cast-off and the purchase tackle
made fast.

"Hoist away, men!" cried Mr Marline.

"Run away with the falls, you lubbers," echoed Moggridge, who was as busy about the matter
as the first mate and doing two men's work himself; but, although the usual chorus was raised,
and the sailors tugged away with all their strength, the anchor would not budge from its resting-place
on the cat-head.

"The tackle has fouled the jib-sheet," said Jackson, who had been pulling like a horse at the
rope's end, and now looked over the side to see what prevented them from lifting the port bower.
"Shall I get over and clear it, sir?"

"Aye, do," replied the mate; when Jackson got over the bows in a jiffey, holding on with one
hand while he used the other to disentangle the purchase tackle, and not minding a bit the
water, which rose up as high as his neck when the ship dipped.

"Haul away, it's all clear now!" he called out presently; and he was just stepping inboard
again when, the Josephine suddenly luffing up to the wind, the jib flapped, and, the sheet
knocking the poor fellow off his balance, he tumbled backwards into the sea, without having
time even to utter a cry.

"Man overboard!" shouted Mr Marline at the top of his voice.

For a moment, the wildest confusion seemed to reign throughout the vessel, the hands scurrying
to the side; and looking over into the sea below, where we could see Jackson's head bob up
for an instant; but as we gazed down he was drifted rapidly astern and quickly lost to sight
in the trough of the waves.

The hubbub, however, only lasted an instant; for almost as soon as the mate's shout had been
heard aft, Captain Miles's voice rang through the vessel in brief words of command, sharp and
to the point.

"Stand by, men," he cried.  "Hands 'bout ship!"

The crew at once jumped toward the braces, singing out "Ready, aye, ready," as they cast them
off, some going to the lee-sheets to haul in there.

"Helm's a-lee!" then came from aft, followed by the orders "Tacks and sheets!" and "Mainsail
haul!" when, the Josephine's bows paying off under the influence of the tacked head-sails,
the yards were swung round in a trice; and, within less than five minutes the vessel was retracing
the same track she had just gone over in quest of the missing man.

A man was sent up in the foretop, while Captain Miles himself ran up the ratlines of the mizzen
shrouds to look out; and, at the same time, preparations were made for lowering the gig, which
fortunately was still slung from the davits astern, not having been yet housed inboard with
the other boats amidships--that being the next job the captain intended seeing to after the
anchors were got in.

I, of course, was as much excited as anyone, and remained on the forecastle, looking out eagerly
for any sign of Jackson, although I could not see him anywhere.  I believe I was so confused
with the ship having gone round on the opposite tack, in order to go back on her course, that
I hardly knew in which direction to look for the unfortunate man, for what had before been
ahead of the ship was now necessarily astern from her reversing her position.

In another minute, however, the look out in the foretop discerned Jackson, and he hailed the
deck at once.

"There he is! there he is!" he sang out.

"Where?" cried Captain Miles impatiently.

"About four cables' length off the weather bow.  I can see his head quite clear above the wash
of the sea; and he seems swimming towards us."

"All right then, keep your eye on him, so as to pilot us!  Mr Marline," continued Captain Miles,
"lower the boat at once with four hands; we can't go close enough without it to the poor fellow,
for we are to leeward of him."

"Aye, aye, sir," replied the chief mate, who had gone aft and was seeing to the falls of the
boat; which presently, with himself in the stern- sheets and four hands to pull the oars, was
lowered down all standing, the helmsman "luffing up" at the proper moment, so that the way
of the ship might be arrested to prevent the gig being upset before getting on an even keel
in the sea, it being a rather ticklish thing to launch a boat from a vessel under sail.

Luckily, however, the manoeuvre was safely accomplished without any mishap, the fall tackles
being unhitched the instant the gig touched the water; and then, the boat's crew shipping their
oars without delay, she was pulled off to windward of us in the direction indicated by the
look out man in the foretop, who with his hand extended pointed the course to be steered.

The Josephine meanwhile gathered way again slowly and followed astern of the boat, although
somewhat more to leeward, the wind being almost in her teeth and the ship having to sail close-hauled. 

The next day was added to the family's maid, and much needed child and mother believed her services,
both marveled at having lived so long miss them. The Daniela success of the first day was thus
so open and notorious as the Hilaria. All did well, with skill and alacrity, divining the
tastes and desires of women to satisfy instantly. And what good manners, how sweet pleasure, what
humility and desire to please! It would seem a challenging job and a young and competitive, which
conquered betting soon as the will of their masters. Dona Francisca was in his glory, and
all that grieved was the narrowness of the room, in which four women could barely stirred.

Juliana,
truth be told, did not look favorably upon the entrance of the maid,
who cursed lack he did, but not crash so soon, he said nothing, and
reserves the purpose planting it in the street when consolidating
a little rule that had begun to exercise.

In other matters, advised and put into practice so thoughtful provisions that the Obdulia had
to recognize it as a teacher in the art of government. Ocupábanse find them also in house,
but with such conditions of comfort, ventilation and cheapness loved her, that was not easy
decision to not mix well in Madrid. It is clear that he was gone Frasquito with a fresh wind
of pupils home (Concepción Jerónima, 37), and so happy man. Doña Paca had no room for him, and still
accommodate you in the hall would have been difficult for being full of tropical and alpine
plants, moreover, was not relevant or unbecoming a man known for elegant and some skull, lived
in the company of four single women three of whom were young and pretty. True to the estimate
should Dona Francisca, Ponte visited her daily morning and evening and on Saturday announced
for next Sunday excursion to Pardo, it intended to greening your hobbies and skills of chivalry.

With
what pleasure and curiosity out the four borrow the neighbor's balcony to see the rider! Had
a very handsome and stiff in a great big horse, and waved and rolled several times, stopping
the horse and making a thousand antics. Obdulia waved his handkerchief, and Doña Paca, in outpouring
of friendly affection, could not help yelling from above: "By God,
Frasquito be very careful with this beast will not throw to the ground
and give us a disappointment.

"

Spurred the skilled rider, trotting down the street of Toledo to take Segovia and follow the
round to join with friends in the Puerta de San Vicente. Four were young in a good mood with
Antonio Zapata's departure on that tour cyclists happy, and as Ponte
spotted and giant beast, with cheers saludáronle and jokes.

Before leaving in the direction of Puerta de Hierro, and Zapata spoke Frasquito the case that
primarily they met, saying this at last, with many difficulties, had obtained the order to
be released from Benin and his Moor. Departed joyful, and along the road began the match between
rider and horse's meat iron, encouraging and provoking each other with cheerful voices and
family curses. One of the cyclists who was champion winner, came and went, ahead of others, and
all ran faster than the hack of Frasquito, who was careful not to go crazy, remaining at a moderate
pace and trot.

Nothing happened to them on the trip. Polidura gathered there with friends and other trails, which
went out with the fresh, joyful lunch, paying for half, according to convention, Frasquito and
Antonio quickly visited the gathering of the poor, took the captives, and later returned to Madrid,
dashing ahead to Benin and Almudena.

God did not want that back was as happy as the first leg, because one of the cyclists, called,
not a bad name, Peter Minio, the skin as the devil had tipple over lunch account, and gave thanks
to do with the machine, getting and taking off for dangerous narrows, until In one of those
steps was to crash into a tree and broke a hand and a foot, is rendered useless to continue
pedaling. Troubles did not stop here, and more this side of the Iron Gate and near the Nursery,
the Frasquito steed, which was undoubtedly already loaded the dizzying spin bikes that passed
and repassed in front of their eyes, also feeling ill governed, he wanted to free themselves from
a rider ridiculous and annoying. Spent a bullock carts loaded with broom and oak for the ovens
of Madrid, and and it scares off the pony, as he pretended horror, is that boats began to and
more boats, until he managed to fire into the clouds to the elegant gentleman. Poor fell Ponte like
a sack half empty, and the soil froze, until his friends came to lift. Wound was not, and
fortunately not suffered stroke care in the head, because they kept their knowledge, and as he
stood up he started to cry, red like a turkey, apostrophes to the road that he said had been
to blame for the loss. In the confusion, the horse, yearns for freedom, runaway escaped to Madrid
not be caught by passers-by who tried, and within minutes, Zapata and his friends lost sight
of him.

Benin had already transposed Almudena, in his journey takes the line of the nurseries, where
the old saw go fast as the wind, hack de Ponte, and realized what had happened. I know what
she was afraid because I was not Frasquito for such jokes, or consented to his age so ridiculous
displays of conceit. But would not stop to know what some of the set, because reached soon longed
to rest Almudena Madrid, who suffered from fever and was exhausted.

Step by step advanced in their path, and the Puerta de San Vicente, and about nightfall, they
sat down to rest, waiting to see happen to the expedition to the victim on a stretcher. But seeing
them in half an hour there were, they continued their way to the Virgen del Puerto, intending
to go to the streets of Segovia Imperial. In pitiful condition were the two: Benina barefoot, torn
and dirty clothes black, the Moor old, green and haggard face, revealing either their gaunt
faces hunger who had suffered the oppression and sadness of forced confinement in what looks more
like dungeon to hospice.

Nina could not take his mind the image of Doña Paca, or ceased to imagine, and in a way, and
of another foster care home that would be. At times he expected to be received with joy, at
times feared find Dona Francisca furious at having her request that alms, and above all, to go
with a Moor. But nothing put in so much turmoil and confusion his mind as the idea of ​​the developments
that had to be found in the family, as Antonio with vague references
to tell the exit Pardo.

Doña Paca, and he, and Obdulia were rich! How? This was something sudden, brought from the
overnight by D. Romualdo ... Go to Don Romualdo! He had invented it, and dark breast of the invention
out person Indeed, doing miracles, bringing wealth, and turning into reality the dream gifts Quia
Samdai King! This could not be. Nina suspicious, believing it was all joke Antonito Joker,
and instead of finding Francisca swimming in the abundance, find drowning, as always, in a
sea of ​​traps and misery.

XXXVIII

Trembling came to the Imperial road, and having ordered the Moor that was leaning against the
wall and wait there while she went up and found out whether he could not stay where he was
home, Almudena said: "No you bandon me, Amri.

- Are you mad? "Forsake me now that you are unwell, and the two walk as the doldrums? Do not
think such nonsense, and Stay there. I will put you over there at the entrance of the street
Lett.

- Would not you n'gañar me? "Golven you ready?

- In seguidita see what happens over, and if you are in a good temper
my Doña Paca.

"

Nina climbed out of breath, and with great anxiety rang the bell. First surprise: he opened the
door an unknown woman, young woman, of tipitos elegant, very clean with her apron. Benina
thought he was dreaming. Surely the devil had taken up the house to weight bear her, leaving
in place one that looked the same and very different. Entered the fugitive without ask, with no
little astonishment of Daniela, who at first did not know. But what they meant, what they
were, where they came from those gardens, which were as precious Mall shrubs from the door, all
along the corridor? Benina rubbed his eyes, thinking found even under the action of the stupid drowsiness
del Pardo in the fetid and stifling blocks. No, no that was not home, could not be, and confirmed
the emergence of another unknown figure, as a cook fine on straight, haughty countenance ...
And looking the dining room, whose door at the end of the hall opened, saw ... Good God, how
wonderful, what else ...! Was it dream? No, no, that it was safe to see with our bodily eyes. Top
the table, but not touching her, as if suspended in the air, there were plenty of precious stones with
different brightness, lights and shades, ingrown nails, others blue or green. Jesus, what beautiful!
Do Doña Paca, smarter than her, had made the spell of the king Samdai, requesting and obtaining
from him the truckloads of diamonds and sapphires? Before I could understand that whosoever glass sparkle
came from the flaps of the lamp room, illuminated by a candle that had just lit Doña Paca to review
the knives of the house Juliana bring loans had appeared at the door of this room, and cutting
happened to poor old said between laughing and tasteless:

- "Hello, Nina, are you here? Did you like now? We thought you had gone to Congo ... No passes
do not enter, stay there, we're going to get lost soil, washed this evening ... Bonita come! ...
Stand back those legs, woman, you stain the tiles ...

- Where's the lady? - Nina said, turning to look at the diamonds and
emeralds, and doubting and they were effective.

- The lady is here
... But he says no passes, it will come full of misery ...».

At that time appeared on the other hand Miss Obdulia, screaming: "Nina, welcome you are, but
before you get home, you have to fumigant and put in the wash ...
No, no I stand next to me.

So many days between poor filthy! ... See how nice is it? ".

Juliana moved towards her smiling, but through the smile, there was a glimpse Nina Edger authority
that was able to win there, and said: "This is now commands.

It is well known despotism. " In the arrogance with which benevolence coated he welcomed the
tyrant, said Nina would not leave without seeing his wife.

"Woman, go, go - he murmured from the back of the room, his voice choked by sobs Mrs. Dona Francisca
Juarez.

Staying at the door, a voice replied Benina whole "Here I am, ma'am, and as say staining the tiles,
do not want to spend, say no way ... Things have happened to me you do not want to tell you
not to grieve her ... They carried dam, have been hungry ... I have suffered shame, abuse ...
I kept thinking about the lady, and whether they would also hunger, and if he would be helpless.

-
No, no, Nina: Since you been gone, look what happened! entered the lot at my house ... It seems
a miracle, right? Do you remember what we talked aburriditas in this solitude, ah! in those nights
of misery and suffering?

Well, the miracle is a truth, daughter, and you can We understand
that you have done your Don Romualdo, the blessed, the archangel,
who in his modesty not want to confess the benefits that you and I
owe ... and denies its merits and virtues ... and says there is Patros
niece Dona ... and that have been proposed for Bishop ... But he is,
is it because there can be no other, no he can not have, to make these
wonders.

"

Nina did not answer syllable, and leaning on the door, sobbing.

"I gladly receive you here again - said Dona Francisca, whose side, in shadow, Juliana was, suggesting
it under what he would say - but do not fit at home very uncomfortable and we are here ...
You know I love you, your company pleases me more than anything ... but ... you see ... Tomorrow
we'll move, and you make a hole in the new house ... What you say? Got something to say? Child, you
can not complain, keep in mind that you went the wrong way, without leaving a crumb of bread at
home, alone, abandoned ... Go to Nina!

Frankly, your conduct deserves me to be a little severe with you
... And everything speaks against yours, you forgot the sound principles
always taught you, largándote company into the world in a Moraza ...
God knows what breed of bird is this, and what spells will have achieved
make you forget about morality.

Tell me, confiésamelo all: do you have left now?

- No, ma'am.

-
Have you brought with you?

- Yes, ma'am.

Below is waiting.

- As you are well, can you think of everything ... Up to bring him home!

- At home I had, because he is sick, and I will not leave the street
- said Benina in a firm voice.

- I know you're good, and sometimes
your goodness you blind and do not look for the honor.

- Nothing
has the decency to do with this, and I miss it go to Almudena, a poor
thing.

He loves me ... and I look like a child. "

The ingenuity with which he expressed his thought Nina did not penetrate the soul of Doña Paca,
without leaving your seat, and the knives on the side, he continued saying

"There is no other like you to fix things, and tweak your faults until
you get that look perfections, but I love you, Nina, I recognize your
good qualities, and not leave you ever.

- Thank you, ma'am, thank
you very much.

- Do not miss what you eat, no bed to sleep.

I've served, I've followed, I have held in my adversity.

You're good, very good, but not abuse, child, do not tell me you were coming home with the
Moor of dates, because believe you've gone mad.

- At home I had, yes, ma'am, as I brought Frasquito Ponte, for charity ... If there was mercy the
other, why should not having this? Or is that love is one for the gentleman frock coat, and another
for the poor naked? I do not think so, I can not tell ... Therefore we brought, and if he does
not admit, will be the same as if I was not admitted.

- You always ... I say, not always ... I mean ... we have no gap in home ... We four women, you
see ... Will you come back tomorrow? The wretched places in a good inn ... not What nonsense! Hospital
... Simply go to D. Romualdo ... Tell him from me I would recommend ... you look at just my own
... Oh, I do not know what I mean! ... as something of yours, and so you ... In short, daughter,
you see ... May you shelter in the house of Mr. Kidron to be very big ... you told me it's a
huge coffer seems a convent ... I well know, as imperfect creature, I have no virtue in a
heroic degree that need to switch to pobretería dirty and smelly ... No, daughter, do not: a question
of stomach and nerve ... I would die of disgust, you know.

The next moment the monster had bolted both bait and hook, as well as a couple of feet of the
chain; but when he turned to sheer off again he was "brought up with a round turn," as sailors
say, by the rope tightening suddenly, the jerk almost making him turn a somersault in the water.

He was not altogether captured yet, however, and his struggles to get free were tremendous.
Really, his jaws must have been pretty tough to have not given way under the furious flings
and writhings he made to release himself; for the strong half-inch manilla rope that held him
tethered was stretched like a fiddle-string, its strands all quivering with the strain upon it.

First to one side of the ship and then to the other the brute bounded in turns, making the
sea boil around him like a whirlpool, until finally, after half an hour's fight of it, he gave
in and lay quiet, although not dead yet by any means.

As soon as the shark began to flounder about, I noticed that the pilot- fish went away, leaving
him alone in his extremity; and on my mentioning this to Mr Marline he took the opportunity
of pointing a moral for my especial benefit.

"It's just the way in the world, Master Tom," said he.  "Foolish companions lead many a young
fellow into a scrape; but as soon as they see him in the mess into which they were the means
of inveigling him, they scuttle off, abandoning him to his fate and probably laughing at his
troubles too."

"Aye," put in Captain Miles, wishing also to improve the occasion; "and if that shark had not
been so madly impetuous in rushing at the hook he would never have been caught; in the same
way as somebody told me of a certain young gentleman, who, not looking before he leaped, as
the proverb says, and only thinking of the end he had in view, galloped down a hill and came
to grief--getting a tumble which laid him up for weeks!"

"Oh, Captain Miles," said I, "you don't think I'm a shark, do you?"

"Well, not quite so bad as that, youngster," he replied with one of his cheery laughs; "but,
quite as impetuous sometimes, eh, Master Tom?"

I made no answer to this thrust, knowing there was some truth in it, my mother having frequently
to call me over the coals for doing things on the spur of the moment, which, as she was aware,
I always regretted afterwards.

This thoughtless impulse is a great fault, as I know to my cost; for, it has led me into many
a scrape--sometimes to the danger of my life!

While we were talking the shark was still struggling in the water; but when he grew tolerably
composed, only an occasional splash of his tail showing that he yet lived, the men began to
make preparations for hauling him on board. How could she ignore me with
some examples to look at, how much was left to do in rural villages men of light and goodwill?

-
The great work - went on - the house of Tablanca, since time immemorial,
has been the unification of views and wishes of all for the common
good.

The house and the people have become a one body, healthy, robust and vigorous, whose head is the master
of it. All are for him, and he is for everyone, as natural and necessary thing. Dispense with
the house, is equivalent to decapitate the body, and so is not taken for favors continuing the
many services provided between one and the others, but functional acts throughout the body. I I
think it is very admired this uniqueness that should have already jumped into the eyes of you and
surely there will be seen only in some old-fashioned potboiler, but as paint infidel imagination,
conventional and sappy. With this great work of defense against surges criminals who come here at
certain times from the political centers absorbing and administration of the State, if you
see what sound they have in the hollows of this hamlet hidden songs of the sirens there, the
pompous rants of charlatans and political traffickers, those tricksters Dulcamara, praising specific
have made themselves, taking the health of the people disguise their personal greed! If you
could see how these songs and shouting disuenan between these customs are agreed almost patriarchal!
So here are unknown pests, relatively modern, the country town, nor have ever entered the marauding
politicians to exploit the ignorance and good faith of these poor men ... But unfortunate for them
the day they lack cohesive strength, noble and noble, which gives them the house of the Ruiz de
Bejos! ... All this, as it can be assumed, given enough to do to each wheel make intelligent
few the machine whose cornerstone is here today well-earned reputation of Don Celso. Well, working
this way the machine wherever it exists, and where not, work to build it, is something much
to do in rural villages educated men of good will. And believe me there is no shortage in
the Mountains (because not all its inhabitants are as healthy as those of Tablanca wood) to the
heroic martyrs of this work. Perhaps you opportunity to learn about any of them.

The truth was that if the sympathetic mediquillo was right not as stated, should to become pregnant,
and cause a blush to the temptations contradict assertions in so honest and so beautiful,
tell me of course, if not convinced, put on track convince me soon.

We talked a little too much, but not take matters as seriously as before, and ending where it
should have started, I found out that the doctor was called Manuel, who called him "Neluco"
since I can remember, just as there than in his native town, that was not in it, his father
died a few years ago, more a family than a sister, married to an
owner nearby, that if it was not his own doctor instead, was that
upon receiving the degree in Madrid, was vacant square Tablanca holder,
which sought and gave him not being easy to find another more to his
liking to it, unless of Robacio, that was then and continued to be
occupied, and, finally, that was twenty-nine and had begun at twenty
to practice in Tablanca, where he was and in their own place, and
so attached to "his patients" as the shepherd his flock.

I saw that I had an hour before the usual lunch at my uncle's house, and I take to pay a visit to
Don Pedro Nolasco. Díjeselo the doctor as the reason for my dismissal, and was very willing
to come with me if I accepted the inconvenience of waiting a few moments. I accepted, not
annoying, but for me it was, came he jumped into the cabinet, and within five minutes it appeared
in the shoe room and not badly dressed, or rather, dressing finishing with a graceful ease. He
took a hat that was on a chair a corner of the club immediately, and I said as I shook his
trouser legs After straightening:

- When you like.

He offered his house right away, though leasing as the old woman who served as patron very expensive
on the recommendation of his sister who had the lads in Robacio; agradecíle supply as was my duty
in good courtesy, and we went out without the compliments current between Spanish fine, and
often annoying in the narrow alleyways of the former.

X

Upon returning to see the house of TARUMBA, I remembered the "things" of this and spoke of them
to the doctor.

- I do not know - I said - if it's a happy or an unhappy man, running
his life, as the passes, renouncement by foreign business and abandoning
their own.

Of course it is his hobby the most original I've ever known.

Not always the extreme to the point that you have seen today, but
it lacks little.

Bring calzones and preach the neighbor to sew it breaks of their own before going over, it's
every day. Have the crippled woman, and often left helpless to attend to a sick stranger ... and
indeed it an admirable nurse. Recently a hurry walks the crash said he saw in the front morio
headman's house and has his own six months ago opened anchovy jastial in the West. For these
things TARUMBA when his wife was healthy pounded almost daily, and today you can not do the same
thing, every moment tells the greatest insults, which he suffers with the same resignation
that sometimes blows because, among all a blessed, so you never know whether to sympathize or
laugh at their foibles.

Turning next to the house of the priest, the church immediately, I called from below to greet because
as we had seen and spoken several times, I had plenty to tell him frankly I was more compelled
by the laws of courtesy to the visit of Don Pedro Nolasco that yours,
do not have time to leave that morning paid the two, but instead of
Cura responded to my cries her mistress, a very old cardboard and
wrapped as it appeared a window for the kitchen, play and shawls.

He told me that was Don Sabas left home after breakfast as he had said Mass, and probably would
in the house. Let memories for him, which were received by the intermediary with a 'guard' for me
the most passionate and colorful you can imagine, and continued the doctor and I walk toward
the house of Don Pedro Nolasco, but talking a lot of Don Sabas Pena, "a wheel of the familiar
major machinery "in the words of Neluco Celis.

He too had noticed the difference between Don Sabas in the high mountains and Don Sabas Valley
and the kitchen of Don Celso, but even so, the man below was a lot more than I thought, for not yet
had occasion to know you better. Ever to find no him the apostle of great eloquence and much
knowledge, but a man of good sense and great virtues, consisting most of them ignore the fact
that he possessed.

Given the limited which is the circle of ideas among people rustic, and that everything is planted
outside seed he is lost, a parish priest as Don Sabas was all he could and should be appealing
to a parish like Tablanca.

Talking about these things, I did not have time to ask some news Neluco octogenarian Marmitón, before
reaching the doorway, where the keystone, and chipped and removed by the action of the weather
and the ivy and jaramagos that for all his joints invade, reminded me a little upper jaw of
the owner when I dreamed that I had seen him devour trunks and craggy.

From the style of the portal I thought what we saw of the house from the barnyard: very old and very
hard hit by the severity of storms and the carelessness of their owners. He also had a corresponding
utility that ran from corner to corner between two mensulones masonry, and below it enter the porch,
where a big dog woke pinto on a pile of leaves, showed me all his teeth and held a bark, and perhaps
something more respect for my companion, who would find it more known than me.

Neluco shook two spiked truncheons on the door of the astragalus, and without waiting for will
get back up, entered it and began to climb the ladder. A door that it ended, new physician truncheons.
Then he lifted the latch, and we sneaked inside: a cruise of passageways for the art of the
house of my uncle Celso.

There doctor gave two strokes on the floor with the tip of the club, and appeared simultaneously
As mentioned by a spell in a door on the right, the huge figure of Don Pedro Nolasco, and
another left, a young, somewhat disheveled clothes and hair, but clean as gold, fresh and
rosy as a rosette of April ...

- Oh, that is Neluco! - Said with a tone of voice that seemed to shout a psaltery, and the face
of angel of Rubens, flooded with joy -. Take! - Coming soon added to tantico us and looking at
a blushing, as if trying to amend its rude to me -.

And it comes with another man very cabayeru! Well, I'll Tochon! ... Well, if it's nephew Don
Celso! ... Vile me in church on Sunday! Daughter, what stupid of me! ... And how is Nah, you? Look,
Don Marcelo, has to forgive me if I jaya of this art, because I've been amassing in kitchen with
my mother and pa the day the girls tonight, and now was to wear a mismu little Christian ...

Such
was the vehemence of his friendliness, which did not offer the slightest gap to sneak with a response
to your greeting or a polite welcome to their excuses. But what was comely and how pretty, with
its tangle of brown hair shadowing the young face, smooth and rosy, talking on their blue eyes,
long eyelashes, as well as for its mouth red lips about whiter teeth
and tight that I've seen in my life, while struggling to cover with
the previously gathered sleeves of her dress, and under the fringe
and leftovers thick shawl that wrapped the graceful bust, her plump
arms, still dotted Mild crusts, like little girls and chubby hands,
the mass of "wheat bread" they had just "rub"!

Suddenly the door rang border, walled about with the bulk of Don Pedro Nolasco, something like the sound
of a gun, telling me:

- Forward, cabayeritos!

And obey Pedro called us, beautiful baking apartámonos of pushing us with eyes toward him as
he said goodbye to us "goodbye" but in such a way that with it and
with more notice than I had thought before, and a bit of malice that
never fails in the thoughts of men in certain cases, like that, I
could not but exclaim to myself,

- If the glasses are these Neluco
looking so beautiful these places that seem?

At close Don Pedro Nolasco and in the light of day, it seemed much
bigger and uglier in the kitchen of my uncle, in the light of the
fire and the lamp: better than a rational, the skin of his face, his
rough and grayish in color, looked like giant elephant; raves eyes,
were embodied green foliage, the huge head, just you could be among
the Herculean shoulders, whole and entire, with the dress greasy enveloped
him, brutally highlighted on-white living room walls that were received;
games old, albeit with chestnut floor joists almost black, like furniture
containing, but clean everything and kneaded to shine, with a few
trinkets on the dresser and walls, who denounced the neatness and
delicacy of a woman he had just leave of us at the intersection of
the passageways.

Which I knew at once that it was granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco and named Lita (Margarita).
His mother, the youngest daughter of she had the giant, the widow of a rich Jándalos, who died
at two years of marriage. This was told me at gunpoint and little by little the Castañalera ochentón,
that being so big and so ugly, was not unpleasant: in my view, the bottom Noblot and honored to
be discovered through the pores of the bark wild.

At the end of these bursts of booming voice of Don Pedro Nolasco, his daughter came on the scene,
the widow the Jandal, a woman of forty years, still healthy and buxom, more bulky than Lita,
but very similar to it in the color and cut of the face, and, above all, the friendliness expansive.
Gave me a thousand excuses for not coming soon to know me and health, based the same reasons
your daughter, and ignoring the compliments with which I responded, fell on me all the guest
section, so used to being in that town: I liked it the earth, that what had taken so long to meet
her and take good law because there was great need for me there was my uncle dying, that Paris
would be better France of course, but that she (the widow) would not change for anything Tablanca
this world but never had happened down in San Vicente, and upwards of Reinosa, if I had seen
pictures in the house, I was more like my father than my mother that walked by where my sister
and what he knew about it ... until these and other such, I heard treading petite and strong in the
immediate Carrejo, and appeared in the living room, full of freshness and rejoicing, Lita newly
groomed, without the prior shawl and a jacket in place, which but did not fit the body perfectly
clear put the elegance and richness of her curves.

With a finger or two taller, I thought there would be the least blemish to put, as a stamp witch,
the granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco. But where he got that little devil, who had not known
the world over the content on the banks of the middle of Nansa, ie a rendijilla a few miles between
two mountain slopes, those subtleties of touch and clothing, and those tricks and blandishments
that both separated from the common type of monsoon valley, which, surely, had run so much like
her world?

He sat between his mother and Neluco and almost in front of me. I did not take his eyes off,
and I can swear I recorded with theirs, talkative and tellers, from head to toe, while questions
haunted me for the kind that had not stopped me the Jandala widow. I was happy to hear and
watch. Rarely have I seen a woman any more full concert and more diverting between word and gesture,
between idea and expressive movement. Until toes, shoes, warm slippers into small and barely
reached the ground, sang his way into music that seemed a gurgle. On two occasions they had
attempted Mother and daughter going to visit, but as I never stop at home ... For this visit,
the thought them very start reason without asking what good breeding, were relatives; Well he érarnos!
By Ruiz de Bejos a little, and the Castañaleras, over the same. In demonstration of this was
taking junctions the widow, and when I began to learn, for their work, relationship, got into
it new threads Pedro Nolasco, and the whole skein I made a mess, but I kept it very well so state:
on the contrary, I for sure, and even complimented me on it.

- Like what results cousins ​​- concluded the widow - though a bit
distant, but not if good looks, we could marry the two without dispensation
...

And laughed with all her heart.

- Daughter of God - the little
boy exclaimed with a spurt of skirts to the knee, while smiling mouth
had to hand the other half closed -.

And I was tuteále to peak, when now, for the account, I get man!

This might not be strictly "correct" but to me it was very entertaining. Then, the child back to
repeat what had already told me, and mother, and the Priest and Don Pedro Nolasco and how many
people had done in Tablanca conversation with me: that "aqueyu" Madrid was not, that I would
come over the mountains, and accustomed to dealing with big shots worldly and perhaps with Marquis
and princes, the villagers had to seem Tablanca "jabatus" but that if he looked good on both sides
either ... Oh, and how glad they and all bystanders and residents of the valley from end to
end, and even the stars of heaven, that I see things as they could and should be seen! Because the
poor Don Celso was already for little, and running out ... Anyway, the usual ... Sneaks here Pedro
Nolasco with a hymn "royalties" to Mother Nature, and a comparative trial of the peace village
and the labyrinths of the city. Because I had to know that he too had run the world in their
youth ... He then called a relative Madrid had there, and as looked sturdy and strong, went
to the call.

Cogiéronle troubled times in court and endangered by the agonies of the 'French', and having
been on placement Valencia his uncle seemed very advantage, entreated
willingly.

She was outside of the city, and a wool wash Botifora lords and Company,
the same praying on the side that had told me the mocking memory of
his relative Celso.

If Madrid had not been "jallau, by the dryness and the anchor of territoriu" in Valencia "jalle"
less, with a sun that "ajogaba" in summer and talk about people who did not seem Christian.
I dreamed day and night with the prairies and mountains of his homeland,
and before you get sick of "Cordial" kill him, he turned to her other
than in passing, completed two years of having no left by temptations
of the evil enemy.

Tablanca found himself in as king in his palaces, and had saved well from then until now, "to get a
leg 'was half Jerne of its municipal ... Eighty-four had at the time, not knowing what a bad
stomach ache. He had had two wives, ten children and twenty grandchildren. Much of years ago they
walked to the other world, rolled down it, and not far, the largest the living, and I had seen all
that was left in Tablanca: little, but hey, that yes, for pleasure of his age. Had to eat at home,
and health and good appetite to eat. In line justice, what else should I wish to God, if not the
mercy of a good death?

With that and little more over the visit, during which no lips Neluco deployed, or look Lita with
the intention that I expected, and Lita looked to him more than when I ran the words with
a simplicity that was more than brotherly than anything else. Recomendáronme much the three
of house that I forget the way of it, and even invited me to eat, "one day to my liking ', together
with Neluco, that it weighed on me alone "penance."

All this seemed good and very much in place, but why would a aldeanuca as the granddaughter of
Marmitón had those air and these antics of Miss City? Why tuteaba with Neluco and had an intimacy
between the two so suspicious?

I dared to speak of both individuals to mediquillo just got out of the mansion of Don Pedro Nolasco.
Certainly I could have sworn that in the handshake and the look with which Lita fired a Neluco
in the shadows of the passage, in which the doctor was the last of all, there was a lot of spicy
my suspicions.

On the first point, I Neluco said that Lita was born and raised in Tablanca, had no more schools
than the master of the place and her own mother, or had run more land that within three or four
miles around. Eight days with relatives from here they be held during the pilgrimage of the
people for a fortnight with Robacio by a similar cause, and very little else for this art.
The rest was the work of instinct and strength of vision that women are so insightful and so
beautiful as Lita, drilling mountains with eyes, see the invisible
to the other side, and know where you keep your job want to live,
and isolated and that the place is dark.

The other was still easier to explain. Tablanca and Robacio were two people who are "trying" much,
and families Neluco Lita and very friendly since time immemorial, had even some relationship
between them.

Lita had happened, girl and girl, good seasons Celis' house, and Neluco, while living in Robacio,
every moment was reached Tablanca and almost always ate and stayed at Don Pedro Nolasco. Explained,
in effect, In this way, very simply, the familiarity and familiarity
between the doctor and the granddaughter of Marmitón, but far from
being opposed, are not helping this what else I suspected?

Pointed out, as in jest, some inquiries in this regard. As if it had been with the knuckles a
rock of Mt. So I wondered if Neluco had heard of them. The truth is that if my suspicions were
unfounded, they must be.

XI

When least expected, the priest told me to leave me in the astragalus of the house, now close to
mealtime:

- Tomorrow, God willing, and riding them. I'd be better off on foot, and floors, and will Chisco
to accompany and care for the animals at times to be submitted, but you another oak wood is
weaker, and you have to have it all today. Before daybreak course.

Entendíle and answered, making a brave:

- A horse, and before daybreak.

- Well, Chisco become aware of this and suficit.

With this and left me laugh, and threw down Canberra demanding his pot.

With the dreams that I picked up after the fatigues that I was in
the mountains of the contour, we Chisco cost God and helps wake up
... Nay day! it is thickest and darkest the next night.

Tona, after I get dressed and shivering without full awareness what he did, I poured a coffee
Canjilón espabilar finished, and when I got to the portal, glimpsed,
in the dim light of a lantern that had Chisco in hand, the black silhouette
of Don Sabas, riding on his pony Rucia, that I was unknown, and the
nag espelurciado I almost got the footman between the legs to shorten
the operation to mount it.

We broke the three walking along the same path that had brought me the night of my arrival to Tablanca,
as dark as ever, even better company and less backache.

Out of respect for me, for my two companions as they did the day
of darkness for safe walking on foot for those unevenness, retained
Chisco that preceded us, the lantern On the hand, but I could have
sworn that more than the footman lantern light, I sparks lit flints
pulled from the soil the shoes of dapple Don Sabas, which Don Sabas
did the impossible for entertaining and even fun for the passage of
this black, rough and endless path, but alas! without accomplishing
its noble and generous endeavor.

Because those "lowlands" and wrapped in darkness so thick, Don Sabas
was still The Cure dull in the kitchen of my uncle and all his observations
on romance and all the Psalms Latin, we were out of time and out of
every opportunity.

Come on you go, slipping here and there and sighed pushing my horse, after a hours began to
draw profiles of the hills on the dimly lit sky by the dim light of dusk. In the gorge through
which we walked was still night for us, and, strictly speaking, we did not dawn until we crown
the rocky ledge and arrived at the shrine of the Virgin that I was well known. The priest, who seemed
to have that status of forest birds, as they stood and watched the light come over barriers
dark the horizon, became more talkative and began to drop slowly the hidden harmonies of their songs,
not many, but pleasant, and above all, to the case

.


We were now in the region between the regular trade-winds and what are termed "the anti-trades
or passage winds," above the tropic of Cancer. This is a particular portion of the ocean between
the parallels known to sailors as the "Horse Latitudes," where there is generally a lull met
with in the currents of air that elsewhere reign rampant over the sea; and, once arrived within
the precincts of this blissful zone, the ship tossed about there for a week at a stretch, hardly
making a mile towards her wished-for goal--only rocking restlessly on the bosom of the deep.

There is nothing so irksome as calm weather at sea, to those at all events whose duty lies
upon the waters and who do not go on shipboard for mere pleasure.

So long as the wind blows, whether favourably or not, there is something to do.  If it be fair,
there is the cheering prospect of counting the number of knots run when the log is hove, and
knowing that one is getting each hour so much nearer one's destination; while, if King Aeolus
be unpropitious, there is all the excitement of fighting against his efforts to delay the vessel,
and the proud satisfaction of making way in spite of adverse breezes.

But, in a calm, nothing can be done excepting to wait patiently, or impatiently, for the wind
to blow again; and, consequently, all is dreary stagnation and dead monotony--the captain ever
pacing the poop in not the best of tempers, with the men idling about the decks, or else occupied
in the unexciting task of unreeving rope yarn, to keep their hands from mischief, and, perhaps,
polishing up the ring-bolts as a last resource!

Under such circumstances, it is not at all to be wondered that the crew of a vessel usually
get discontented; and, should her officers be in the least inclined to be tyrannical, an ill
feeling is produced which sometimes leads to an outbreak.

Hardly a single mutiny ever occurred on a ship at sea save in calm weather; at other times
the hands have too much to do even to grumble, in the way that sailors love to do ashore, comparing
their nautical experience to "a dog's life"--albeit they never give up the sea all the same!

On board the Josephine, however, all went along pleasantly enough, although we were becalmed
and the seamen, had plenty of leisure time for airing their grievances. 

Across the bridge there were some houses look very happy: The inn appeared to me to one of
them, and there I was. Hostel was, in fact, and quite well stocked pub. Mandé I give my horse
and asked a few trifles for me, rather than meet a need I did not feel, by buying the right resting
in the shade and a bench under roof, as it was not possible to do outdoor recreating the eyes
in contemplation the sea, so close to being there, did not look black rather than the anchovy
of the estuary.

It was already well-run one in the afternoon when I returned to riding. I went over the bridge,
and without direct the view of the road that let to my left, I began to retrace what was upstream
morning walked downstream. Upon reaching Robacio, saw me at the next brañuca the portal of yore,
the family of the former mansion, with the father first. God knows I made a solemn vow to myself
not to put there foot down, as no dismount me dead. Neluco was the brother of a man quite fat
and not very tall, dark and swarthy face, with wide gray whiskers, hair strong and low front.
Do not talk so much and his wife, but was no less warm and hospitable than her. With the apology
(and was the truth) that the hours had been very measured, I spoke very little and I managed
to had no way to confuse the conversation that I threatened every moment by the side of women
of that good man. Cuddle, finally, for the second time the hairy hand, with offers and the
usual courtesies, and a "goodbye" to all these, cut the I met with goodbyes, and I jumped.

Determined to catch me not closed the night on the road, took the poor animal that led me, the flanks
and up the offal to espolazos. By a miracle of God came home alive. But came to an end, not
as late as I would fear me as I saw him losing strength and reeling from the rough road.

As for myself, I got in the same state of mind than a novel to estudiantillo prison at his school,
having spent many holidays with his family in swearing I own not go out of Tablanca alone and
that way, not to fall again the evil temptation to escape.

XIII

Speaking a few days later Neluco of this tour, he said when
he came to the event:

- Well, now you need to do another, upstream.

I replied that I had already done with Priest once fairly recent and very pleasant memory for me.
Don Sabas Replicom that I had seen only what it suited him that see for the purposes that I had,
and I needed to see something else, and yet was required to: for example, promise.

- I crossed the valley - I said - and kept its overall appearance in memory.

- It is not enough - I said the doctor -.

In this valley is a village, which is the main ...

- I saw him too
...

- By far.

- From far and near has very little to do.

- Accurate
- Neluco said - but in this hamlet is a stately home ... that of Gomez
Pomar, the blood of ancient lineage that also runs through the veins
of you.

- Men's - stopped here my uncle who was present, while Neluco
smiled as if fun of the same weights that was making me, you see promise,
all right; you know the house view of the Gomez de Pomar, go too,
but what remains old blood there that's worth putting your Jocic in
that astragalus as a cabayeru you ... Pispaju! this he refuse to feet
together.

- But if there is no drop of that blood, Don Celso! - Neluco
said.

- Look who it counts! - Replied my uncle -.

But there is one that is ... God knows if in prison.

- I was referring
to the house only ...

- That's not even 'them' and ... because the
crooks desaforaos, gave it a wineskin as baldragazas that lacked the
father in a bear montuna.

Gravel! bad lightning split in two by the kidneys.

- And finally and ultimately, what comes to mind as the fall of Don Marcelo? He played so little
kinship! ...

- Say nothing, cuartajo! if you paez. The sons of a nephew of my mother! ...

- Well, I say! ... or a greyhound reaches you and ... Anyway, if you
do not want ...

- Me?

... A good deal going with the repair! ... I like Go! ... No, no, what is for me ...

- In addition, it is not only, to be seen in passing ...

- Jacia
HERE?

- Towards the other hand ... to another site that I want to
take ... because this issue has Don Marcelo make me.

We will need two days.

- Long will be, piece of junk!

- Not much, but as we spend the night there ...

- Well if you thought
the inn secrecy, give me no more sign of him, because he I have known
...

- You can ... And now there Tablanca health fever for many days,
if Don Marcelo agrees and you give us permission ...

- Me?

... Pispajo!

What I want is for my nephew expands and entertain your taste, certainly
not to take the land of his father ... He knows that well ... well
you know you ... So, if you will it fun, well done will be, and prior
to before, if time tired of being good.

I wish I could go with you, but nothing more than to give a embrace
the good man! But no go to Mass, cuartajo!

...

- I leave you, Mr. Celso ...

- Yes, feet pa-freeze the best day ...

At this subsequent conversation
Neluco undertook the walk, both alone and on horseback: I was always
the well replacement and of his last labors, and he in another rocinejo
by style, which was his property and had the habit, as a horse doctor,
to stand before of all homes that was to pass.

It also woke up early that day, and not a little, and woke us near
the shrine next to Vader, and also saluted the Virgin, following the
example I gave Neluco, rezándola a Salve in Latin.

A great deal of devotion that have and all the inhabitants tablanqueses of the neighboring villages,
and his party, in the month of August, the most popular and celebrated
all of that region.

The image has a caption that I had referred or Chisco or Don Sabas, and met by Neluco while
we went back to running, falling to The Vader. In ancient times the tablanqueses wanted to
replace with a new and ' better to see "that same Virgin appeared to them very old, so that its
origin was unknown "In memory of man." Agreed replacement, acquired the image they wanted and
placed in the small altar after removing it the former, which was
buried with great solemnity, not knowing what to do about it or how
best to honor.

But what was the admiration of those pious mountain to see the next
day at the altar the image buried the day before, and empty his tomb
and found no trace or trace it anywhere in the world of the new image.

With this miracle became more extensive patent and fervent devotion
to the Virgin resurrected, and to this degree, or little less, has
been preserved to date.

Repeating the path taken by me in company with Don Sabas, I seemed to have taken less with him to
get a promise; advantage was due no doubt to amuse me With news Neluco
very curious about every inch of ground under our feet and we were
so well known as the corners of your home.

Not the least known cure, sure, but if there is walked two in the way people feel and taste
the mother country, were more numerous "Records" the doctor, and more varied, therefore the
music of their conversation.

Back in the valley, we straight to the town that gave rise to the contention between my uncle and
Neluco. The so people, scattered and poor village, he held on mound high of several that make
up its rugged place, a building near the church, no more bulky than him, as though she would
look without hindrance and to be well regarded of all and sundry, the only greatness he has. The
building was of good style 'Rich' mountain, in the front stalls grain South and part of the East,
it must to frame it a balcony with iron balustrade pulpit, and the rest, masonry solid with little
clear window. In the main facade, large balcony run CORNER to corners, and above it and the balcony
of this, two separate and ostentatious stone shields long and rich relief carving, on this, the
mossy patina, rust and moth years and neglect, and large eaves with corbels rotten paneling,
broken-backed. That was the ancestral home of Gomez de Pomar, and God knows the sadness, so
the I saw such a deplorable state, rather than sympathetic relationship,
man's natural impulse honest and good taste.

Habitábala a farmer, and so the piles were obvious signs manure, the cart and tools that were
seen in the yard and in the porch, and hay sticking out through the holes in one of the rickety
door of the sunshine, among the elegant masonry fences. She left a good man who saw us look everywhere,
and as Neluco was that he knew, gave us very polite to us to spend to rest, "if we taste it.
" The doctor asked me my opinion with his eyes, and with a gesture gave me the negative. I
remembered some words of my uncle, particularly having been sold
"for a skin wine ", and previously was sorry for bartering in anger.

Continuing our journey, gave me Neluco some reports that I asked, keenly interested to meet you
after what he had seen in the village, where we did not stop over half an hour.

The family of Gómez de Pomar has never been so rich in property and money paid their ancestry, common
ailment on the Mountain. The bambolla a hidalguete of that caste, who returned to Mexico early
last century, he built on the foundations of solar old house we just saw, with the bulk of the money
I had. With the rest and farms that belonged in the valley and nearby, was determined to hold
the luster of his family, taking it all at once at an altitude that had never lived their fidalgos
predecessors. He met his attempt vain, but not without very considerable losses and losses in flow.
Bequeathing his successor, also inherited a load of censuses and mortgages; and as in its short
life could not be relieved of the burden of this cross, also received it on their backs who came
after him, but as it weighed a lot, before dying overwhelmed by it, preferring rid of her at all
costs. And took it off, at the expense of more juicy flow. That saved the rest, which began to
be gradually entangled in inextricable mesh of usurious loans. Was wise man and needs adjusted from
home to the extent that he had freely to support them. Land did not work with his hands, but
paid the work of others to live it in their products, and home and accessory in it, where there
was always unnerving silence reign of leisure and the great annoyance of vanity infanzonas began to
breathe and hear noises farming activity, bells of cattle and invigorating and regenerating fragrance
spicy fruit of the earth.

My paternal grandmother reached that time, the most adventurous family of Gómez de Pomar. His
father was a gentleman in the manner of my Uncle Celso: folksy and without rhetoric, simple
to rudeness, and noble and healthy heart.

Had only two children: my grandmother and the estate. This was less energetic and industrious
as her father, she married Mrs. campurriana half and had a child alone, and that a few far, sick
and without breath for nothing. Here began to weaken the strength of the hitherto upright mediocrity
home much procrastination by the dad naturally something by not sinning industrious mother,
and the remainder for lack of stimulus in the two to make amends in the presence of innate apathy
and fatal weakness of the child. Who gave the grace to glean a little, just as he must have died,
according to calculations by his parents, based mainly on repeated opinion of all doctors and
healers of four miles around. With this and die sooner than those who believed, received orphan
assets at least expected, and with many leaks, almost as many as he had the manor house in
which they did not spend a penny in his life the past masters of it. In this particular as did the
child, attentive only in the early years of his orphan, to the work of reconstituted all the
gift giving was consistent with their wealth, while eating and the "big pot." As never left
the house and had proposed a comprehensive plan to manage life within it, married the maid,
a wild Liébana, always dressed in sackcloth and "goiter." Had to her two sons and two cubs
walk, whose education did not care damn thing: far this, they continually gave the bad example
of his misrule, and very often the scandalous marital quarrels caused by Liébana uncivil, it
was the picture of dirt and the height of wastefulness. At last they both died, she double pneumonia
and he's serous effusion, but was run voice in place that had just a drunk brandy. Everything
could be, because it is shown that very often had merit it. The children, who were just lost for sixteen
years, when the law came in free possession of the inherited, and had more than three quarters of
it. Drunks, corretones and quarrelsome, and gave more to do justice in six months that the entire
party court within a year. The last thing they had left were the ancestral home and a fence
adjacent to her, and as they had mortgaged to a tavern in the valley, at whose expense they
ate and drinking lately, and at the expiration of the debt had to be redeemed, the bartender
stayed with the mortgaged house cast it as soon as he could, and put it to a tenant filled with
family, but it paid well and best cultivated lands also gave income. The man that I know just
the house itself.

- What about the others? - Neluco asked about ended his story -. What has become of them?

- Whose? - He asked me to turn.

- From the owners of the house - I said - or rather of the former owners of the two dissolute who sold it
to the bartender for a wine-skin.

- Well, of those illustrious offspring of Gomez de Pomar know nothing certain at the present
hour. When they were on the street, homeless, or benefits office, disappeared from here, and
knew who were in Andalusia looking for ways to live like the devil gave them to understand. Over the years,
became one, not its people, but that other is encalabrinar at that height in front, and which
I think will arrive in just over an hour. There with the prestige that gave him his name and
the fanfare that unfolded in front of daughter a good man who had some farms, it's got to give
in marriage. Home Estableciéronse apart, and soon after it appeared his brother's place, poor
and badly dressed. Acogióle marriage, as was natural. By then I knew I still student still,
during the summer holidays in the pilgrimage of the Virgen de las Nieves. I found a very bad degustation,
particularly the eldest, whose grim countenance and suspicious look, as in the rest of his person,
were fingerprinted and the havoc of all his misfortunes. The other, the youngest, who was
married, had a pale yellowish and some loops of fox, and a grimace of a smile, and walk poisonous
snake, they were centreline asking the bank of a galley, and courbash a heartless overseer. Said
the that wrought in them by knowing them well, that much watching the Civil Guard, would true or
not, but it was clear that they fled from the couple who walked in the procession, as the devil
on the cross.

For those Kalends made a visit to his uncle, Don Celso; but then
he had more enthusiasm and more guts than today, and answered his
sly exposure needs in such terms and in such an attitude, not insisted
on their request, nor Tablanca again apparently.

Shortly afterwards took off again into the world and sought life
with great satisfaction all over the place, and even the poor wife
of one of them.

Earlier this fall I heard in Tablanca had become a married man and walked around so shameless
and lazy as ever, but I have not seen him or anyone heard of him.

With these interesting biographies and the subsequent comments, entertained the road sinuous, devilish,
leaving our right the river basin and was far too little of their sources.

At last we reached the village, perched up there like an eagle's nest, and led me Neluco the
only inn in him: a crummy shack with a fourth on the porch, and the fourth a coarse counter and a
corresponding shelf with half a dozen bottles and bottles of various colors, some packets of cigarettes
and boxes of matches, and half a dozen glasses of so many sizes, against the wall and supported
by three stakes unworked a plank in the rough, curling brown, front and about half of this bench,
table the same matter and the same style as him on the table, a jug and two glasses half-empty
red wine, and finally, sitting on the bench and the table in front, two men in the which neither
the doctor nor I look great thing for the time being. Then, and as we talked with the innkeeper,
Neluco, that was in front, elbowed me and told me to look to repair them. Hícelo carefully and
saw that the two had very different fur customary and common among villagers in those regions:
they offered the whole aspect of homeless starving cities, both wearing the gray half-grown
beard, and the dark and filthy clothes, with very few signs of shirt. The one thought I saw,
or rather recall features of the painting that I had done Neluco of Gómez de Pomar married at
that same people. The motion of the other did not agree on anything with which I knew about bachelor
brother. It was his face even more ignoble than this and more disgusting the whole of his person:
he had a Chirlo in the nose, which is the split almost half and half an eye removed.

They were known early on that did not like the insistence that looked Neluco and I, and out
of this or because they had nothing to do there, draining the contents
of the relevant vessels, and took off making a slight gesture of greeting,
but said nothing.

Neluco then abruptly left the matter with the landlord was reduced
to know what could serve to take a TENTE feet and began to ask about
the breed of the two parishioners who had just left.

It turned out, in terms of one, which I presumed and Neluco was for certain: it was the Gomez
de Pomar married there, the other had been with him early October, and together they lived and
ate the same pot since then, as large and old friends who were, at the expense and despite the poor
woman who had barely as indispensable to not starve the fruits of its ill-fated marriage. Her husband
rarely missing the place and did not spend any night away from him absences friend, without being
many, were longer, would last two or three days. Asked the first by his wife ... and also by the
mayor, about the origin, occupation, occupations and plans for the second, he replied that he was
a gentleman belonging to one of the main families Madrid, broke with the business of the Stock
Exchange had been studied in young to engineer mine, and going through very knowledgeable on
them. Knew from there with other reports obtained Smart, who had a rich, pure gold, in a certain
place between Tablanca and promise; and looking for every time she walked out of place, rather,
had found the first trial, they were infallible signs that brought: the other trips he was
doing were to study well the reefs and how to exploit them. As this study had just he stole
to sleep, go back to Madrid to account for all the capitalists they had to undertake the work
under his direction, assigning him to return for their work, half the profits.

Despite these lavish reports, the Civil Guard had asked the paper, as to last dissolute, but as
a rule and had not bothered anyone, and nobody complained trusted
him and the neighbor of the place I lived, things went not only to
watch him from afar, as well as their guarantor, while the town houses
were closed at dusk and not left, out of doors, or the chickens in
their "albergaderos" provisional.

In As for the absent Pomar, he knew only by references to his brother, who was well health
and not long in coming because it would have in the gold mine of great profit jobs for both.

I had found blood Morrocotudo I Cantabria those heights! Had Neluco reason, deserved to be known
by me about the site and the manor. On this side, I was giving the travel reasons to disown
him.

Taking up tempting the landlord served us with great will and very little cleaning and revived the
vigor of the horses with nutritious ores do not know what is found in the haystack of the tavern
and the barn of a neighbor, we remounted Neluco and I to go our way, which we still have the longest
and worst, the doctor said told me to ride.

Let the people back and already starting to lower the Canberra on the other side of the mountain
we are lock to lock with the two diners of yore, who were sunbathing arrimados back to a fence and
rushing about butts. Then exchanged papers regarding glances, to be a lot of curiosity with
which we looked at were much higher the fixity and intensity of the looks of it, especially
those directed at me, and especially of my blood relative. We did not even honored with the courteous
gesture which fired in the tavern. Truth is also the face that they put us was not to generate
complimentary responses. When they cross paths with the right hand instinctively took to the
waist, which had, under the thick jacket, a six-shooter, and God knows not for fear of the men.
Neluco, which also took him, but in one of the holsters from his chair, smiled to observe the
movement and know my intentions, and said:

- Do not go so there things you are certain of it. Need to live well with justice to reach their
goals if they have any bad between eyebrows, and if you have, it is not assault in the wilderness
the first passer to be put to fire.


"Aye," responded the first mate who stood by the binnacle; "the question, though, is, what change?"

"Hang it, man," exclaimed the captain testily, "anything is preferable to this confounded calm."

"Well, I don't quite agree with you there," said Mr Marline drily; "there is such a thing as
changing for the worse.  Have you looked at the glass, eh?"

"'Pon my word, I have not once glanced at it this evening!  Dear me, what on earth could I
have been thinking of?" ejaculated the captain in a sort of apologetic way, darting down instantly
below to consult his unfailing guide, the barometer, which I suppose he had looked at so vainly
for many days past that he had given up the instrument as incorrigible.

In another moment, however, he was on deck again, rubbing his hands as triumphantly together
as before.

"Pooh, nonsense, Marline!" he cried, "you're an old croaker, saying that the change would possibly
be for the worse!  Why, the glass is rising, man, rising steadily; and, I've no doubt we'll
have a splendid breeze ere nightfall, and glorious weather."

"All right, sir, we'll see," was the mate's cautious answer.

Meanwhile, the after-glow faded out of the sky and the stars began to come out in batches,
especially to the north-west, where they shone as bright as diamonds, blinking and twinkling
with various colours as one looked at them steadfastly, and seeming ever so much larger than usual.

A faint stir in the air also became perceptible, and the idle sails, that had so long flapped
against the yards lazily only with the roll of the ship as she lurched to port or starboard
with the ocean swell, were crumpled out a bit, as if they half felt inclined to expand their
folds; but there was not wind enough for this, so they presently flattened themselves again,
determined, apparently, to take it easy.

The time then came to set the first watch, from eight to midnight, of which Jackson, now, as
second mate, took charge, when the captain went below, saying he was going to turn in early,
so as to be ready when the breeze came, giving strict instructions to be called as soon as
any change was apparent.  Mr Marline, however, did not go below; so I remained on the poop
with him and Jackson, the two walking up and down the deck and talking together while I stood by.

The sky was wonderfully clear now, the firmament being studded with the greater constellations,
and myriads of the lesser lights of the night powdering the heavens with their golden dust
everywhere.

But this was not for long.

Shortly before nine o'clock a peculiar moaning noise came over the sea. It was like a sort
of hushed sob of pain, resembling somewhat the sound of a number of voices wailing in chorus
in the far distance.

"What is that?" asked I of Mr Marline in alarm.

"I'm sure I can't tell you, my boy," he replied; "I don't think I ever heard such a queer noise
before.  If we were off the banks of Newfoundland, I should think it a fog-horn blowing somewhere
about. But, we're several hundred miles to the southward of Cape Race and the night is too
clear for fogs.  It is one of those mysterious voices of the sea that are for ever reminding
the sailor that, no matter how wise he may think himself, he does not know everything!"

"I imagine it's the wind coming, sir," observed Jackson deferentially, after listening to what
Mr Marline had said.  "When I was once on a voyage in the China Seas I noticed just such a
sound before we had a thundering typhoon upon us, giving us hardly time to clew up."

"Perhaps you're right," said the first mate; but after giving a glance up and around the sky,
and noticing that the stars still shone out from the blue empyrean, he added, "there does not
seem much chance of a gale now, though."

"We'll see, sir," laughed Jackson, paraphrasing Mr Marline's observation to the captain.  "We'd
just as clear a night off Hainan, when our blow came on there at a moment's notice!"

"All right, we'll see," replied Mr Marline, using his stock phrase, and the two continued to
walk up and down chatting about other matters, while I went and sat down close to the taffrail,
looking out over the sea and wondering what the moaning sound of the ocean meant.  I let my
imagination wander over the old stories I had heard of the mermaids below, and how they sang
their weird songs of lament whenever a storm was coming, anticipating the shipwrecks that would
follow and the invasion of their coral caves by the bodies of drowned mortals, over whom they
are said to weep tears of pearl; and, in the flickering light of the stars, that seemed to
come from underneath the purple deep and not be shining down from above, I almost fancied I
could distinguish the sirens looking up at me from below the water with sad faces, as they
combed their long weed-like tresses and raised their wailing croon. "My heart is yours forever leave before beating
that love you alone, "answered Mutileder.

These sessions are the hours passed, and continued two lovers were together less when Echeloría retired
to sleep next to his old nurse and stay very sheltered or when going to the beach for bathing, for then,
in order to avoid what people say and gossip, Mutileder not bathe her, perhaps not used even
swimwear, so complicated and conceal the ways in which they are now
in Biarritz and elsewhere.

III

Phoenician city of Malaga was a lot of trade. Almost racing Cadiz. The port was full Tyrian
ship, Pelasgian, Greek and Etruscan.

In its stores were sold thousand beauties brought from distant countries: wool fabrics, dyed
purple in Tyre, gold jewelry, made in Memphis in Sais and other Egyptian
cities, gemstones and Hindustan cotton fabrics; Persian carpets, silk
and even the most ignored country of Seras.

Echeloría went to Manchester several times with her father and her boyfriend, to visit those stores
and buy clothes to the wedding day sighed.

Hallab then in Malaga one of the boldest and marine scientists had
then the world: the famous Adherbal.

Navigation had made a most happy, and his ship was like, anchored in the harbor, loaded tin, amber,
iron, skins of ermine and beaver, and other valuables that he had gone for the coast of France,
England and other regions of Northern Europe where only the Phoenicians ventured to arrive at
that time.

Adherbal Tyre was planning to return soon, but first had to take in
Malaga copper, wine, quicksilver and gold dust from the sands of our
rivers, instead leaving behind some of its cargo.

Walking one day along the quay to Echeloría Adherbal saw, and seeing
her and swore by Melcart Ashtoreth as it were by Hercules and Venus,
who had never seen more beautiful creature and salt.

Desire was to suddenly reached the girl and slipped the turkey, that is, to say no ceremony,
her daring thoughts but Mutileder was beside her, looking suspicious everywhere, with the beard
on the shoulder, distrustful and hostile attitude, and brandishing
a huge and fierce club.

Prudence restrained the impulses of the Phoenician navy. It was enough to see a glancing blow
to Mutileder bear was able to wear yourself out to any of a club,
if he were to break down a bit with the beautiful and candid Echeloría.

Adherbal,

as said, was wise, but he was also stubborn, enterprising and cunning. Echeloría it was not a fleeting
impression and light, but deep and durable.

So he found out who he was and where he lived, and got it with discretion and modesty.

Two or three times was then surreptitiously Churriana horse, and returned to see the child, being
captive to its unique charm.

Finally, through the clever people of the country, it was reported Echeloría life, he knew I was going
to marry Mutileder, and no detail was that you fail to take full news.

These elements formed Adherbal a diabolical plan, which went right, as unfortunately go wrong almost
every diabolical plans.

One early morning the ship weighed anchor and set sail from the port of Malaga, after saying
goodbye kick him. Out port and the ship, he was very near the coast
to the west, tacking to win best wind. So a few hours elapsed until
he reached one in which the gentle Echeloría down to bathe in the
sea. Adherbal then jumped in a very light boat with eight rowers vibrant
and two other men of the crew, great swimmers and divers, and the
most agile and devoted to him. With the boat approached cautiously,
hiding in the recesses of the coast and away from the rocks and hillocks,
until came close to where Echeloría bathing, believing the most secure
and complete neglect. The swimmers then thrown into the water, dove,
which suddenly emerged Echeloría was bathing, seized her despite her
cries, which soon ended in fainting caused by Swat, and in that provision,
beautiful and interesting as a nymph, is the led to the boat where
the Adherbal in his arms, and then drove on board his ship.

Previously to this, the ship had been under all plain sail, so as to be ready for the wind
when it chose to visit us again; but, in a very short time, under Jackson's supervision and
sharp, rapid orders, the courses were clewed up, the flying-jib hauled down, the topgallant-sails
furled, and the spanker brailed up.  In this half-dressed rig the vessel was now prepared to
meet any sudden squall; while, should a favourable breeze come, sail could readily be added
on--a much easier job to accomplish than that of taking in canvas in a gale!

In the interim, although no further thunder was heard, and we only saw the one vivid flash
of forked lightning that had accompanied the fearful peal which made me vacate my seat by the
taffrail, the heavens grew blacker and blacker, the darkness settling down on the ship so that
one could hardly see one's hand even if held close to the face; but, after a bit, a meteor-like
globe of electric light danced about the spars and rigging, making the faces of all those aft
look ghastly with its pale blue glare.  They seemed just as if they were dead.

A second or two later, some heavy warning drops of rain, as big as saucers, fell on the deck,
with a dull splashing noise; and while we were all waiting with some anxiety for what was to
be the outcome of all this atmospheric disturbance, Captain Miles ascended the poop-ladder,
his face being distinctly illumined by the meteor, which was apparently at that moment hovering
about the slings of the main-yard.

The captain had been roused out by the sound of the men's feet busily trampling about the decks
and the hauling of the ropes, as the main topgallant halliards and sheets were cast-off and
the clew-lines and bunt-lines manned during the operation of taking in sail, so he came up
expecting to find that the long-wished-for breeze had overhauled us; but he only saw, instead,
the vessel as motionless on the water as when he went below, albeit now almost denuded of her
canvas. But it increases in complaints of "abuse" and
regulatory proceedings begin, and is the law with its casuistic distinctions and subtleties, and lo
our man paying the broken glass and perhaps at the gates of the prison, as a highwayman. And
there are cases of it.

- Why?

- Well, sometimes, because "that's the law", which seems made to try
to protect criminals; and many others, because the push to that side
... those black clouds that also saw you last night in his dream.

-
I think not, and you forgive.

- Lucky you!

- But what reason is
there, brought to believe in these clouds, which do not favor our
friend the other being convicted?

- The reason for the "wrong again",
he also mentioned to us last night.

- It will be so, but do not understand.

-
Then follow the example pictured, and suppose that the offender is
a arbitrista victorious Note, a man of coarse grain and worse entails,
profiteers and shyster, but well rounded flow.

Assuming this, it can be assumed that this man is the leader of a
tight mesnaderos submissive squad, which falls in battle is now used
as a herd of sheep, or who has diabolical art to handle the cups and
illusions of this farce to its full taste, or if you have nothing
of it, knows to look for any way, they also know the value those skills
represent the right brand, and how to negotiate.

Well at least now paid these merits, is a carte blanche entering
the bag in its extensive jurisdiction includes the pirate or protected
even in the palaces of the Law This is the "bad back"

I alluded to our friend, for go for honesty, has no retinue that serve under the banner of modern
masters, those who run the black clouds that are their delegates
are omnipotent and sleeves, hoods, for their own benefit, of the laws
without force and plundered soil of the motherland.

I told you once, speaking of what we had to do and well educated
men will in the rural villages to get them what Don Celso and his
predecessors in his, that not everywhere the same result was achieved,
that the martyrs had even heroic work, and maybe you had the opportunity
to meet some of them.

As already did you hear about Mr. Tower Provedaño.

That remarkable man with all his knowledge, with all its virtues, with all its bells of noble lineage,
with all its sacrifices towards the general good and glory of the land where he was born and
the whole country, is a martyr the tireless work of Sisyphus.

I had not, neglected Madrid, judgment about the evils new and those black clouds despite having
dreamed about half of it the night before and a prophecy of what was of paint Neluco the next
day, but remembering vagueness and platitudes that on purpose such a delicate matter had read many
times mechanically in newspapers or heard without Talks focus on coffee, and uniting all the statement
made by Neluco and what, for a good time, continued to tell me yet, and, above all, the satisfaction
that I felt in enlarging more and more the idea I had formed of the knight of the tower, I accepted
good win all the medical opinions, and so we were entertaining the ascent of the mountain, first
part of our long journey. To let me even more pleasant, spoke Neluco some features of this singular
man, and among them the following, which he painted from head to toe.

On one occasion he came to his neighbors, he was no longer young, going to look a little by
cattle he had in the winter, far from Provedaño a half-day journey, a good walk in the high mountains,
facing east. The day was December. The sky was gray; pure shaved the cold north wind, and that
night fell a snowfall of two feet. Snowing since dawn and dusk freezing since spent more than
half a week, and he never got Provedaño the man who had gone into winter, and his whereabouts
were unknown. Mr. entire Event Tower, who had left home at the same time not be needed elsewhere;
Spears jumped into the yard, take the road of the village, flying,
rather than treading on the thick layer of snow that whitens lining
and, as the place and the entire valley as all the surrounding mountains,
arrives with his club hit the doors locked for fear to the glacial
weather; ábrense to order one by one; questions, explores, learns,
estremécese, unworthy, admonishes, reprimands, threats where the will
is not to your liking, and, finally, clubbed to straighten the most
crooked, to get what he is looking for: a half-dozen men who accompany
the winter should be blocked by snow, if not dead hunger or devoured
by wolves, his poor neighbors, who, back in the morning counting Next,
there was no other provisions of mouth led to a loaf of four pounds
is fine collection of them, urged the six recently settled around
him, and were incensed at anímanse out because they are good and charitable
to the bottom, begin to march up the hill seven, uphill, and walk,
walk, walk, when they transpose Palombera summits, feel chest pain,
as if the air that carried with it millions of aspiring sharp point,
and a fumble and a breakdown in the knees, as if they were slabs of
lead the "snowshoeing" dragging their feet; confórtanse a bit with
a drink of liquor they drink "to the Riola '; and walk, walk steadily,
sometimes come wrapped in swirls of snow sifted, crumbled and subtle,
which prevents them from even breathing and, fortunately, pass like
a cloud over of hovering and wander wandering on the mountain, the
same lord of the tower, complexion iron and that always walks ahead,
you will note missing his indomitable strength, that members is numbing,
which can not be altered one syllable to his lips made by coldness,
which are stiff, numb hands bruised, begins to fear something serious
and not by him, certainly, and jump, jump, rubs, hits, screams and
howls like a wild ... anything but shake and stop, or stop a moment
to rest a muscle or a fiber of body, and then singing and joking while
walking, to encourage and set an example to those who are their orders
and will remain in absolute silence, terrifying, those lonely heights
and unforgiving.

At last God wants Columbres the winter, they have strength enough to get there, arrive alive and
in what they are looking for. Man is there, but nearly died of hunger and cold and despair.
While some comfort him some drinks and words, others light a fire that becomes heat, which also lacked
all. Following in the spirit, the lord of the tower is fed carefully to the hungry and shivering,
which eats more you eat, how much you put in front of mouth. And no man, but dazed, silent and
sad. That also must cure sorrow, and sends them to tell those who know something entertaining
stories and romances. Nobody the six knows a word of these things, but the lord knows by heart
Provedaño tomes integers, and gratings loud and resonant half poem of the Cid. As if to shut
up. Man no joke, not even paying attention. We must do more, and orders that will sing to the use
of land, but no one is in the voice for it, and sings it to belt
out tunes from the valley native and even the preface of the Mass
of the day of 'Corpus', the most solemn and regorjeada the year.

In this test, because man sees the singer and show a delight to hear. Well, we have take the
rest: to dance around the world! ... And no one moves, he dances like a madman to high and low,
and then the Aragonese jota, and finally, a shoe boots the besotted an exclamation of surprise
and a laugh with joy, and the gentleman, and hastily and and panting, these words appear on the
pitch, a curse: "Ahab the son of a goat!"

All and "lovingly and company 'rest, warm up, talk, eat, just the day sleep, he wakes the next,
clear, calm and radiant sun, and become eight to Provedaño above the frozen snow, as if nothing
had happened. All this is narrated by Neluco thoroughly, I had to hear.

After the immediate harbor and gorges, and prayed at the shrine on the other side of the Hail
Vader usual, I could see the sunlight of the afternoon, the rest of the way to Tablanca, which
had always happened at night, which did not seem so deep not as dangerous as I had imagined
in darkness. We arrived at last, and after know at the door of my house, Chisco, who had new top,
the doctor despedímonos and I 'see you later "and he continued walking towards him.

XVI

There was no thinking and new excursions in the mountains: the last had been exhausted my strength
and filled the measure of my curiosity undemanding. The body and the soul called me rest for
a few days and then ... But then something new would have to divert my endless leisure? Would
you find interest in what already seen and enjoyed? And if so, Such luxuries do you allow the temporary
wintry, by some miracle of God, had not triggered even over Tablanca and its environs? For
one thing, the life he had made during those two weeks, most runs, the peaceful and sunny right
temperature, no longer fruits give me very worthy of esteem. With my incessant raids, if I managed to
get to land as soon and as fully as I waited for my uncle and he wanted me, at least killed
time of day and night was plenty to entertain issues a little get-together the cocinona and
conversations at the table of my uncle, ate with good appetite, and Women's condumios gray and
his daughter repolluda I tasted glory sentíame courageous and strong, and I slept like a groundhog
in the body stretched on the bed much neglected reading the newspapers he received from Madrid,
and writing to my friends and I would not letters soaked in melancholy tinge of the early
days, we were looking more bearable relentless vision of the rocks around me, and shortness
of horizons miserable I choked, in short, that if I had "done everything", conceived as the possibility
of it.

Say, if not, the example of the party: at first it was unbearable, and every commentator, new
to me, that appeared in it, I rather boorish and more bland than the previous; was no joke in his
"humor" expressed in language and conventional maimed or reason, therefore, to some laughter
shameful that even came to bother me, as if I offend; hastiábame the simplicity of the issues that
interest them, and could not help regret resobado acordábame of the Latin poet in exile in Pontus:
the barbarian seemed I could not understand that anyone was understood there. Trying to find
in my books and newspapers, in the solitude of my room, the remedy against such boredom the kitchen,
but the fear of my uncle to translate it as a sign of contempt for his rough commentators, I
contained. Seeing forced to feed the spirit of it all, I recently little to savor it without
disgust, and soon ended up failing to find it enjoyable something better. The same thing happened
to the condumios of Facia. I learned the value Castilian of local idioms that are fed and
wove the talks of the party, and the continuous friction and forced them gave me the knowledge
I needed material "Conversations." And the miracle was done, for known, common sense is that
there thing that interests us as the known; and as a corollary of this axiom, that, she is minimal, we
find it interesting as we know it.

Worth the example of a touched my friend's passion for making toothpicks, just because it
has mastered the art with rare ability.

This was that in the first week I got my spoon in the talks and insisted
upon in rustic those serious issues of scope that I was beginning
to penetrate, it would distinguish characters, tricks and zunas of
each, and I felt very flattered by praise from all my feats of hiking
and hunting.

My uncle was bathed in water pink with these things, because I took for signs of rapid acclimation,
and I was pleased to see how little effort on my part gave him one of the few pleasures that
he could vacuum and the poor old man. Then my visits to the town, the case reported by Chisco
Facia, the acquisition of medical and friendship with all of this was linked naturally gave
new impetus to this positive trend and gives me my greatest attachment to things and vicissitudes
those simple people.

He saw with pleasure every day increased the gathering and studying
the degustation and character of each new talk show for me with the
same interest as if were a newcomer to the salons of "the"

Medinaceli, and if, for example, told me my uncle to the ear when there was one in the kitchen
for the first time this season, "that has the grace of God to tell stories "touched sentíame
curiosity as if aristocratic party told me: "that you just get the speaker has broken down this
afternoon in Parliament the Government "or" the author of the drama Z H. " He was right Neluco when
I said that man has cultivated intelligence resources in himself needed to live at home everywhere,
provided that no exchange of pulley ropes and to strive to raise what is below, rather than down
what is above, to achieve desired level of ideas for a particular purpose.

Far from correcting the trial that I had formed of temperament tablanqueses to 'see go ', so to
speak, on the porch of the church or in the alleys of the town, I said I more and more into it when
I tried to close in the kitchen of my uncle and I could study them in full exercise of all its
physical and intellectual and only because there was where exposed and aired the most important
of his life, the warmth of bonfires the cocinona under the chairmanship of Don Celso, who
always hit the nail on the best and more convenient, the same with a wisecrack with a formal
opinion. They were, without exception of a single, parsimonious in the extreme and soft condition
and in their shootings joke, those who are fond, squandered the metaphors, colorful local Greek
for me at first, and very witty after I learned to translate to my
language.

We were looking theirs, meanwhile, more sweet and lilting rhythm the more he heard "sound."

The priest Don Sabas was attending very often and so dull as the first time, but to me I do
not it looked like after I had seen him as "eloquent" on the cliffs of the mountain consagrábale
why certain reverence, regardless of who owed him on his inauguration and its virtues, and I fancy
that not know it or disliked. As he had boasted over once in front of me, that with these bonds
had to tie him to the land of my forefathers, and forever, "for all eternity": thus, even in
Latin, had emphasized the boasting. Don Pedro Nolasco only two or three times had returned to the
gathering, and that "to be me was' because it was poorly managed and, to the years he had,
with the ruggedness of the Callejos in the dark of night, although he had a flashlight. Neluco
attended plus the kitchen to top that at the end of that season, and I think he did with the
charitable purpose of shortening the period of "acclimatization" because it showed I was very
diligent in taking the issues to me conversations, translating the metaphors and helping my uncle
in his relentless grind to stoke fires of prodding the attendees gathering more assets.

There I met Toper, the father of Tanasi, and pepazo, the groom preferred by Chisco Molehill
for his daughter, saying the TARUMBA, also off the pace, often by cocinona. The Toper was a
middle-aged man, cuadradote back and something red matted hair, little talkative and very
skillful in the work that led to the gathering (it was rare that
he would talk show without it), "paint" covers the tip of his knife.

Dispatched three or four pairs each night, so it was good preparation to replace them at my
uncle, as he had others' cebillas "of" whetstone holders "and even" Banilla "(strips of hazel) to make
'Macon' (large basket), because it seemed, for that and other signals, the home of all ...
even for establishing his office, four times each year, the itinerant collector of taxes.
  Uniting now with this, the double current flows back westwards to the place of its
birth, only to renew its onward course again from the Caribbean Sea."

"But what causes it?"  I said.

"Well, that is a disputed point," replied the captain.  "One authority says that the Gulf Stream
`is caused by the motion of the sun in the ecliptic,' and I think there is a good deal of reason
in this.  Another philosopher puts it down to the influence of the anti-trade and passage winds
blowing from the west to the east along the zone in which the stream travels; and I think much
might be said about that argument, especially as the westerly current south of the tropic of
Cancer is undoubtedly caused by the trade-wind.  A third scientific gentleman ascribes the
stream to the fact, that the earth being a globe, the water on the equator is higher than that
of the tropics, and the lower stratum of fluid circles round constantly in its endeavour to
reach into the bigger volume beyond its reach; but I can't say much for this theory myself, Tom."

"But how do you know the Gulf Stream from the rest of the ocean?"  I here asked.

"As easily as you can distinguish a marlinespike from a capstan-bar," answered Captain Miles.
"It is not only bluer than the surrounding water, through which it flows, as I've told you,
like a river, but it is also several degrees warmer; for, when a ship is close to the stream
and sailing in the same direction in which it is running, a bucket of water dipped from the
sea on one side of the vessel will show an appreciable difference of temperature to that procured
from the other.  Besides, my boy, there's the Gulf-weed to tell you when you are within the
limits of the current; however, you'll see lots of the weed by and by, no doubt, before we
finish our voyage."

"You said, captain," I observed, "that the great currents of the ocean are produced by the
trade-winds?"

"Undoubtedly," he replied.  "Blowing with regular force on the surface of the sea, they cause
it to move in the same direction in which they are travelling; and, this motion once acquired,
the ocean stream keeps up its course far beyond where its original propelling power directly
acted upon it.  The `Great Equatorial Current' is produced by the south- east trade, the Gulf
Stream, as I've just explained to you, by the western or passage winds; and the branch of the
latter current that skirts the British Isles and Southern Europe, until it falls in again with
the northern portion of the Equatorial Current, by the north-east trade-winds.  Thus, the circle
is completed, the water being ever in motion round the centre of the tropic of Cancer, just
in the same way as the winds of this region are."

"But what causes the trade-winds?"  I next asked.

"You young rascal!" said Captain Miles, shaking his fist at me in a jocular manner, "I'll have
you keel-hauled if you utter another question!  I will answer you this one, however--but it
is the last time, though, mind that!  The sun, my lad, is the source of the winds of the globe,
as it is the prime agent of heat and life.  The atmospheric air being heated by the solar orb
at the equator, where its force is necessarily the greatest, ascends.  This creates a vacuum,
which the surrounding air hastens to fill, causing thus a constant indraught from both the
north and south towards the equator; and the fact of the opposing winds meeting at this point
produces those very calms which vex us poor mariners.  There, Master Tom, that's all I can
tell you; for, I must see about my sextant now to consult the great luminary we have been talking
of, so as to see where our scudding has taken us to."

Captain Miles's mission after his sextant, however, was a vain quest to- day, for a mass of
fleeting clouds were continually passing to and fro across the zenith, obscuring the heavens
so much that not a single peep of the sun could be had either at noon or later on. The horror of that night, newcomer I to Tablanca
had happened two like that, but as he fled from me as I approached purposes it strange questioning
about particular, after asking me to hands together and the love of God that my uncle told
a word of what was noting, limitábame, to please her, to watch from afar and while not losing
sight I could. What the hell could there be? Were ghosts, hallucinations, hysterical the poor woman
so punished by misfortune to the best of your life, or was under the weight unbearable for
some new misfortune? Neluco Celis, still looks the same as me thought when he first spoke: discreet,
friendly, and noble understanding of very clear heart and a closed ark to save me what seemed
to me that should be available My view: verbigracia, their inclination loving granddaughter of
Don Pedro Nolasco. Because I Lita could not conceive and Neluco not loved, and neither conceived
nor garrulous midwife of Robacio, nor anyone with guts conceive of humanity and glimpses of
good taste and repair a bit at that couple, "single", which seemed to put God in that corner land
for that alone, to love and to join. Lita and her mother had been twice in my house after I was
in hers. One of them, as I said, to pay me welcome the visit and, incidentally, my uncle and the
other only by my uncle, whose health they were interested much, besides that, how could you leave
home, they would make a bit of company as whenever the weather permitted and occupations. All
this I said discovering Lituca the rows of glazed white teeth, in vehement language, frisky and admiring
astragalus to the door and as he pulled his feet, shod in sneakers petite coat on colored stockings,
a pair of clogs that looked like two nutshells. At that visit, as in the above, I, stubborn and dogged
in my theme, I took fifty times the field of conversation disguised in a thousand ways, with the
pious to observe which side Lita made him ... and nothing, not a frown, or a point on her cheeks
flushed, nor the most insignificant signal the granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco had heard
his heart calls me to made with the name of Neluco and praise of its merits: he spoke of him with
neglect and the serenity with which he could speak to his mother or his grandfather. That made
me impatient to me as if it were a matter of my own membership, and more than one occasion, I undertook
serious tempted to ask the right questions and unambiguous and clearly: "do you want or not
want you? Do you love or not love Neluco?. " But sir, why was I so hard that to love? Or rather,
why it was so great you got that point right away well understood and demarcated?

Then my Uncle Celso, the soul and center of everything around him, with his indomitable energy,
their jokes most singular, his attention always fixed on me how, since no fun life bearable
at home and care for forcing me kinship and gratitude to ensure it with special care during
the time of damp and very cold, in which, according to medical opinion,
his life was in greater danger, by the nature of her illness.

And finally, its gatherings and my books, my papers and my correspondence. The remaining both
lots, some of it for its insignificance, and partly because of distance, could only be as decorative
characters and scenery.

True that all these reservations so little relevance to the needs My spirit could reach epic,
considered as elements of creation the fantasy of a witty writer, but they were taken and worth, as
cases and things real life and prosaic in half so remote, so dark
and so isolated like that, what I had to promise them for later?

What are my enemy against formidable auxiliary could expect from that side? What could come from
there of what I was most needed?

- Who knows - I said in conclusion of my musings -. For light in the darkest points other times,
if God has something coming, it will come. It's all about patience and learn to comply. So
a bit of philosophy, and await what may come.

XVII

And he began to come before long, but alas! what came was, first,
a gray mist that came down from the mountains, wrapped around the
village and slipped up at home, after that fog came a "gallego" cool
with another brown fog, which was mixed with the first, sooty their
color and making it more moist and sticky, was also a continuous rumble,
like distant gunfire, which seemed to me the raging sea beating the
rocks north the coast, but as the opinion of the people in my house,
it was the "Rebombo" of the "Peña Pozón Sagra ", a large lake or well,
that is for existing, I do not know of anyone who has seen, in the
bowels of this giant of the Andes, and this noise constantly bronco,
dejáronse heard in the area and the valley as a sinister and nasty
moans, which were, according to Chisco reports, the cawing of the
"Boutros"

(vultures) and cranes, which spend "cararriba '; this signal, as the "Rebombo" the well and
the low fog with the "Galician" behind that we are pouncing on a wintering of fat.

And the prophecies were fulfilled: the clouds became dark clouds swollen with rain, the wind,
raging slowly crashed with frightful bellowing, into homes, slopes and Bardales, closing gaps
and horizons everywhere you looked, felt the most ardent of blood the first shivers of cold,
and we declare all in the house seriously and formally blocked by winter.

The first consequences of this blockade were in it, as it was easy to be presumed, the reduction
of half a dozen small gathering of brave, including Salces Pito, who no saves in the impulses of
the fondness that attracted him, and the fiercest winds and (What was for me far more unpleasant
and unexpected so soon) a crisis of gender wrong in the state of
my uncle.

As commissioned by the doctor forbade him to poke their noses the paneled open a window, was consumed
with impatience in darkened moors of his prison, and when night came, and after praying the
rosary in the kitchen, looked into it scattered, unmanned, shivering with cold and water drafts
of a few commentators those of that tight phalanx of the first night, and I noticed the cause
of desertion of others in the furious beating of the sleet against
doors and windows and gun fireplace, stayed thoughtful and gloomy,
with the humbled neck and staring at the flame the fire, whose heat
instinctively sought.

And so one day and another and another, without that toughness of its fiber reach to disguise
even the disappointments of his mind, reached a degree such abatement, which alarmed me, because
in a moral status as yours, any gives flight of his illness was very scary.

Talking with him one morning in those days so raw, and just the two in the kitchen, which was
his whereabouts regular time, I encouraged him as he could and he knows the weak quality my stimulants,
finally say:

- Do not get tired, Marcelo: This ujano that eats me is stronger than you and I together, by
large who are your care and hard it has been my belt. Look, man, not yet one year jaz I was
so hard for me to fall as the beeches of those mountains. Piece of junk with Vanida of human handsomeness!
Maybe the thought that only a glimmer of the will of God could mayor in the soil, a breath that
light extinguished, put me to death's door when least expected and most neglected sleep. Since
then here, pispajo!, I never nothing I am astonished by anything I shrugged, and looked suspiciously
refer to the ground where I put my feet, because they always and
at all times and everywhere I am afraid the last remaining to beat
the falling oak finish.

This is the truth, gravel!, And to think you signed up some of it in one of the letters that
I wrote. But then those were the days longer and the nights are shorter, the sun shone and
warmed the earth's blood old, and, above all, returning from his
trip early, much to scare up early ideas sad heads that charity comes
just sleep at night.

So I Jallas happy ever to have seen me coming and get along well until yesterday, as they say
... to came what I had seen it coming sometimes not rush for it, and do not know if I tell you
that taste ... Tasteful piece of junk! because when you have good health, the earth has no
sauce if we are always singing the same solfa ... and no change of clothes ... I say that I was
pulling so what until he reached the first cellerisca, it is still going on, while waiting,
by signs, yet another tough one to her, and went out the sun by day, and closed doors and windows
and night began to miss the people in the kitchen, and no end to the hours of bed or point of
rest for evil to think of the head. I had never seen it happen the blackness for her go now. To
this day and since I have use of reason, always the interests of other Jizo me forget my own,
for now and I love a story pispajo! ... and this is what me and hastily: I have eyes only to see
how it goes woodworm rejundiendo and ajondando in this rotten log that falls with himself day
by day, hour hour. Paez to the wind, Rebombo in the chimney, I said something I never I had heard
before, but something very afraid and very sad ... come on, it's good ajuyera win, if I temporarily
shut off all avenues of escape, and the cold chained me oars and I cut the little breath left
in my gullet ... Another thing never view: I can swear I'm not afraid of death because I am
old and I know Christian has come before long and I have to wait for trusting in the mercy of
God as I hope, and with it and yet the disease that scares me is me taking life. How explains this
soup? How about you that is it, Marcelo?

Faltábanme to me the scientific fallacies that Neluco, for example, could clarify apparently those
complex darkness that I consulted my poor uncle, and dispatched the consultation with four
heavily underlined and encourages vague about the influence they exert on thoughts machine the
long sleepless nights, the solitude of the night, the seasonal cold ...

- Well may be some blame those ingredients - "my uncle me with very little sign to believe - but
sometimes it seems to me to me that there are other reasons for using ... and be fed, piece
of junk!, that come from that band all the rot. Look, man ... (Because put into question the point,
should be ventilated in order, and I have seen many faces in so many nights of not thinking about anything
else) if I would live no more than one of the children that God was giving me the death of
his father's death would not be proper, because in cases like this, and you well know, the life
of the sprouts to be on those who stay for more than weep and pray for them: a link locked
in another link ... go, a chain that never breaks or ends. But as things have turned out here
and put I consider that I am within an inch of dying ... Ay, Marcelo,
what makes my paintings before your eyes!

With the last gasp, the string broken forever home without fire, empty barns, the house in silence
and (even worse, if not the key metisteis between the four tables that were to rot my bones
to the cemetery) in the hands of men you will not see in it only the rusty farthing to be paid
by the right to abuse.

Well lie down to think after all these people who live by their heat because they all are, same
as were their parents and their children should be, as our blood blood and flesh of our own
body, looking askance at the beginning to end for not remembering leave it and spreading, as POLLUCE
without mother, stolen at last, one by one the kite that never sleeps ... Oh, piece of junk! This
is very painful, even to dream into a nightmare ... What is not my son, seen and felt in the
same reality? Believe me, Marcelo: matter much more than the life of your uncle, what is to go
with her to another world, if God does not intervene ... Do not you think to yourself that it
could be the "consistidura" of the strange things that I removed both sleep and I cringe lately?

Knowing
as I knew the strength of character and feelings of my uncle, was evident who was right in that
assumption, and certainly it was he even appeared otherwise, but I could not so state, he
declared, or expressed to me descariñado eyes and harsh, or accept a compromise that could not accept,
because it was another very different from yours I see those things. I would have been easy
to deceive venturing a promise that he was walking perhaps looking for from the first letter
to me, but I hated the lie that a man so honest and so smart like that, also states that I do
not believe her. So I took a bland temper that neither reached to lift his shot encouragement,
even in disguise that I got trouble with your question.

- All this - said the good man, trying to make small talk pinito that did not come out well
- that is to say. Marcelo, and since we take the conversation to that side ... Well would have to
see, pispajo!, which I now give the grace of burden you with grief new when you most need to
do something cheerful to chase the darkness of this time is caught up with us! Look, man, Creasman
or not believe me: the only remaining guts than me ... come on, the only thing that I feel
when this game is to help you not Amurrio alegraderas you also.

"Oístelo? For good. Something more and more important I have to say, and I'll tell you in time
and place concerned, and before long. This should be now and in case, days ago, but ... Enough
talk, and do not scare the threat, but the point is a close relative of the treaty here, has
no face so ugly. If the two were equal I would get rid a lot of letting you know that you have
not seen yet.

Tona came into the kitchen, something touched also on the wintry blues, a bustle at the stove
where my uncle and I talked about the warmth of the fire, and I could not ask him what he had to
the tip of the tongue, even as exploration around this new breed
of 'point' I had a great curiosity.

But more than curious to clarify, I was worried and sad about the painting by Don Celso state of
his mind. To reach such extreme frankness of a man temple, what would be the weight of his
trouble? And what the extent of my disgust and my worth considering that I had the choice of the
largest of theirs, and yet, I refused to be offered? Was honored this conduct mine? "I was forced
to compromise impossible to fulfill? Was well demonstrated this impossibility? "It was to
be, in doubt, resort promising, subject to where you could meet? ...

Putting the issue in recent terms and seemed more rational and tolerable, and if we had continued
the two alone in the kitchen, you may have tried spot I enter this loophole the first support
for their faintness.

But Tona had time task (as they are walking in the vicinity of noon), and if this was little hindrance,
came to lead the task Facia. Strange!

The gray woman was the only one of which we inhabited the house, in whom there was a bump
pattern the scourge of the storm which prevailed. Even the walking Chisco espelurciado and
shrunk somewhat through the stables and corrals, and went into the kitchen sometimes with sour
mood, the Facia setback, which, since they had triggered the first celleriscas seemed another.
The more the hail lashed the walls of the house, and more "Runfla" gales in the chimney, put it more
cheerful and more diligent face turned to the work.

Seeing so buoyant and so advantageous provisions, I struck up a conversation with her that
same day, to take not know what junk to my room.

- It seems - I said it to begin - that matters are going well, eh?

Entendióme the question, and after a bit overwhelm her, she replied without hesitation:

- It's kept me God Muchu tiempu.

- I'm glad in my soul - I said it then - it, because it does not see you with the horror of these
days ...

- Not lying to me, sir, Carida work! - I replied back to compunction -. Paez that the evils, as
if heard, stand up as soon as they mint on the palate ...

- At any
rate, it's business you go in reverse time.

- Why do diz, cristianu?

-
Because while he is raging and dogged, they are improving.

- God
always is good Jechu jaz ... Ah, if this lasts Muchu!

...

- Is the time?

- And otru.

- What is that?

- The states with what YOU WANT to know.

- And without actually achieve
more by token ... Let's see, Facia: Now that you're a little quieter,
why do not you tell me?

Why are you being so heavy single load?

... because I think even Tona has any news of her ...

- Daughter of my soul ... My tongue split in two with mesmus Mius
if I saw her teeth temptations of parláselu ... The probe as my lord
and amu!

Santa Virgen de las Nieves!

... And Carida of God, do not ask me over for now ... esu and will
never, Don Marcelu; I, for the account that brings me, Nah, you look
for the amparu of when load and render me ajueguen troubles me ...
because the plague has golves, and without much delay, Don Marcelu.

Oh, miserable me! ... And the amu ... and Tona! ... My Mother the Blessed Virgin!

Stood suddenly pale, he painted in the face the anxieties of other
days, and led to her hands crossed and convulsed.

I moved to pity the poor woman, and felt remorse I have been the cause of that crisis, bitter.
Took hard work to calm, and I got it, but with the help of a "zurriascada" fierce suddenly crashed
against balcony doors. When this happened, he wiped his eyes and responded Facia badly to my last
comment. Hearing the noise outside, and stopped to tears launched into one of the open paneled,
and there was watching, with the eagerness of a thirsty that sea of ​​rain sifted, stirred and
tossed into space by the fury of the gale.

- Oh! - He cried at length, retiring from his observatory with beaming face and walking hurried toward
the exit door - by God's mercy, there Ratu pa.

"It was very singular and strange all this?

Meanwhile, I never stopped to reflect on the serious subject and point of paramount importance for me,
born that very morning of the conversation I had with my uncle, and
the more laps I was in my head, I felt more bound up by charity, to
offer all who honestly could offer me.

If this offer is healed of his mortal anguish, What greater satisfaction for me? If the passage
of time was not my strength came so there like my good intentions,
what would I blame it?

I did not hesitate more, I looked for my uncle found him in his room near a brazier, browsing
some papers bad cough a lot and moving under the thick clothing that overwhelmed him at the
gloomy light mid-afternoon and unpleasant noise of sleet and thunder did not stop outside.

XVIII

I announced at the door asking if he could speak four words without disturbing you.

Face turned to me with the vividness that it was very mousy, and he
said, straightening the scrawny little body as he could:

- Look,
man, what a coincidence!

... I was busily thinking of going soon to ask the same for cumplirte
then I promise you this morning by finishing our conversation.

-
Well, to fulfill another promise - I added - I could not ask you then
for lack of opportunity, but that was made in myself, I come now.

-
You're sitting and talking - I told this comfortable throwing on the
roles browsing, then sat in a chair beside the hearth box and telling
me to do I own into one that was in front of her.

- As I sat down
- I said, making it - you will obey of course, but as of talk ...
not so much.

- This is good piece of junk!

Why, man?

- Because I want to give you the preference, as I must, as each have to say, it seems.

- Well, well, let's compliments, and start with the case of yours, which for me always there is room. So
what is it that you think, my son?

- For what it occurs to me - I said I began playing tackle difficulties facing so delicate a matter
of nature like this, whose starting point was nothing less than death
of my venerable partner - it occurs to me, my dear uncle, something
that relates another thing that I heard you this morning and I was
very deep and very bitter impression ...

- So, to see - the poor
man interrupted her chair closer to mine, while painting the bright
eyes, the curiosity which devoured.

- Do not think that it is a thing
of another Friday - added smiling.

- Let the other Thursday or next
Saturday, come the right thing and without wrappers, man! - Me responded
with a vigor mortis inconceivable in its exhaustion.

- Current -
I said, not knowing how to reconcile my qualms with his impatience
-; but after declaring for the proper intelligence, I took the case
at the very point when you put him and left him this morning.

- Declared
and understood ... Go now!

- I told you then, stuck in the unjustified
fear that he would die soon ... and God does not confirm it.

- That
's account of him and me ... Next, Marcelo!

- I told you, I repeat,
also confessed that ... apprehension ...

- Apprehension, eh?

- That
this ... cavil, if you prefer so, was what was killing him, that you
do not frightened of death, but dying, ceasing to live, leaving the
world forever, because badly need it and who does not leave his place
in your work life.



At nine o'clock, the greater portion of the heavens was quite unobscured, the moon shining
out, although looking pale and watery and with a big burr round her that showed the still unsettled
condition of the atmosphere; the wind, strange to say, continuing to blow with almost as great
force from the north-west as when it began, nearly forty-eight hours before.

"I'm afraid we're going to have a nasty night of it," said Captain Miles, who had just then
come up from below with his sextant.  "Still, I'm glad to see our old friend the moon again,
however greasy she may look.  I haven't been able to take an observation since Monday; so we'll
see what a lunar may do in the way of fixing our position."

Just then, there was a break in the haze that had caused the watery appearance of the fair
orb of night; and Captain Miles, taking advantage of the opportunity, took his angles, a sight
of two of the constellations also helping his calculations, and giving him data to work upon.
He then went down to his cabin again to work out the reckoning.

"Guess where we are, Marline?" he said when he came up for the second time.  "I don't think
you'll be able to tell within a degree!"

"Somewhere between the forties, I should think, with all this scudding about north and south,"
replied the other.

"Well, I make it that we're just about 33 degrees 10 minutes North, and 41 degrees West longitude.
What do you think of that, eh?"

"Never!" exclaimed the first mate.

"But, it's true enough," returned Captain Miles.  "I assure you I've tested my reckoning in
every way, those star altitudes enabling me to correct my lunars.  Yes, Marline, you see we
did not lose so much by carrying on to the north as you fancied we would; and this blustering
north-wester has now taken us almost eight hundred miles in the very direction we wanted to
go.  If we had lain to, as you wanted at first, we should now have been considerably to the
southward of our position, and would probably have had to beat up northwards again; whereas
now, as soon as the gale is blown out, we'll be right in the trades for home."

"And won't we touch the Gulf Stream, then?"  I asked.

"No, my boy, thank goodness, we're a long way from that; but if you're anxious to see the Gulf-weed
I told you about, we're now in its native home, a region called the Sargasso Sea."

"The Sargasso Sea!"  I repeated.  "I never heard of that before."

"No, I don't suppose you have," replied Captain Miles in answer to my implied question.  "It
is a name applied to a calm expanse of the ocean between the Gulf Stream and the Equatorial
Current, and is called so from the Sargassum, or Gulf-weed, which is continually found floating
there--that is, when the wind is not too strong, as now, to blow it elsewhere.  You'll see
plenty of the stuff as soon as the gale lulls, which it must do now, I think, in a very few hours."

"Are you going to carry on still before it, sir?" asked Mr Marline.

"Of course," answered the captain.  "The ship is sailing easily and not straining herself,
as she would do if lying-to; and we can't run into any harm following the same course till
morning.  I intend to work the gale in the same way as a friend of mine once treated a runaway
horse. It first started off to please itself, and then he made it keep up its pace to please
him; so, as the wind has chosen to blow us along at its own sweet will all this time, it shall
now drive the ship at my pleasure.  What do you say, Master Tom, eh?"

"I say it's a very good plan, captain," I replied laughing.

"Well, my boy, I'll tell you of another good plan, and that is to go below and turn in, as
I purpose doing.  Mr Marline," added the captain to the first mate, "please take the first
watch.  I'll relieve you at midnight; I don't think there'll be any change before then."

With these words, Captain Miles, who had been on deck almost continuously now for two days
and nights, went down to the cabin to have a couple of hours of much-needed repose; and taking
his hint as an order, good-humouredly as it was spoken, I followed him at once. Because it's true that
climbed to a height and went down to a hollow without a doctor made burning panegyrics to what
looked from above or from below. For me, broken and unresponsive of soul and body, everything
was as equal and the same color, and even the great vertigo outcrops was cured with the frequency
of seeing that day, and care that was so awful and path so narrow, twisted and lopsided, that it
got out to pass Neluco ... covering his face with his hat on the side of the abyss. Of runs' Pendias
"not say what was the falling down rather than down.

When least expected, I found myself at the port, which I found less interesting than first time,
because he looked the other way around then, with dull line of low mountains for much of his
background, instead of mountain grandeur in this second visit were running behind me. He also
floated on the clouds, as in the mountains where had risen, and so deplored Neluco, because I
enjoy the show prevented admirable, I had pondered both Chisco his way. But what could be lacking
in point of view panoramas after he had seen the priest from near there? Referíle, as we that getting
inside a rugged desert, Bear "made a reguñu" found there the other time, according to claim
my footman. If not surprised, because I was aware of other similar. Notwithstanding which, he
added, in that same port in the early grazing summer months, and without risk usually many cattle
herds, even the valleys of the sea, and even taught me some cowboy huts recently abandoned and
will soon disappear under the snow. Neither seemed so long as the first Once the journey,
not so fatiguing continuous contemplation of its aridity, which might consist I made the other
entrance "gate" the output of the time, or acquired habit Now for me to walk through mountains
and mainly in nice Neluco company.

Transposed to end the top of the mountain which borders the port to
the south, and turned to look at the green and vast plain of the valley
of the three fields.

With the spectacle revived my sleepy spirit, and eagerly began to breathe the air of the beautiful
valley, as if I until then had lacked the necessities of life, if not so admired Neluco strange
when I declared, because, for a physiological law, weight 'ideal' large moles that inundates
the adventurous spirit of the open plains and clear, participates physical body as well. Constantly
lowering our horses, they could no longer with tail, along the paths that I had met up, half
down is left of them Neluco and took the other to the right. A little time to walk in it, we
discover at the end of valley leaning on that spur of the mountain and below us, a great tower
manor with a group of buildings added to it, a short distance from a village clustered in a leafy
rinconada of Mt.

Pointing to the village and then to the tower and its accessory, and while holding his horse, Neluco
said:

- That is Provedaño hamlet, and here is the end of our day today.

After the hearing stretched by the splendid panorama of the valley, and was giving me about
it all News Chisco had given me, and many more. Agreed with me that while to be quiet the whole
landscape had already printed lines and its colors the influence
of their neighborhoods Castile, and continue down.

When just down the valley, I am not satisfied with spreading the light on it, nor inhale the fragrance
of velvety meadows, I would have wallowed in them in good earns as a beast, and as a beast
that walked Envy free grazing there. I consulted with this bestial Neluco occurrence, and we
celebrate both with loud laughter; but all in all, there were still
a couple of reasons, physiological too, pointed to by the doctor and
discussed by both, to explain the craving quite "rationally".

Neluco still resist expanding the limited information given me by the way on the person to whom
we visited, we walked through the plain a short distance, and we, not the tower, but the back
of a body building joined to it by the wall a portal. Among the façade of the building and we stood
another wall lower that covered the entire length, and over this wall was seen hugging a bullock
cart the building and parallel to it, in the car had a load of hay "green" in my way see,
and as the most authoritative Neluco of shoot 'dry', and on the load, a man throwing tall
with great verve impetuous "pitchforks" of it to the anchovy wall, where another person picked
up and drove deeper. Nothing particular was all this, but it had, and a lot to me, what happened
next, and it was that turned suddenly towards us a man who was unloading the car, and as we
looked frowning her eyes, leaning gracefully on the pitchfork nailed by their points in the hay,
I observed Neluco was discovered that before him and greeted him with the name of the gentleman
to whom we to visit. Descubrimerlo then I too, full of strangeness, and we got out the two,
almost while hay unloader truck jumped down, very diligent and graceful, by Raber.

Representing fifty years or corridos, had good color, very crowded head hair rowdy and loud,
small and skinny face, and even seemed smaller than it was, so thick beard that was half, the
beard and hair beginning to gray, the forehead wide, and prominent brow, the nose curve, and bright
eyes look green, firm and searching; face, finally, and somewhat cervantesca "aquijotada."
Took big steps with long legs to contact us that we reach out and balance the body, wiry and
unleavened bread and some leaning forward, the rhythm of the stride, wearing a suit modest
dark cloth, strong and inexpensive, and anchors wore sandals.

Mediquillo of Tablanca met and hugged him very joyful and loving, to me greeted me with courtesy
and manners of a gentleman, the exquisitely polite, because there of them without a hint of
education. When he learned who I was, by the mouth of Neluco, clasped effusion my hand in hers,
which seemed so strong and even by the rough palms, rather than flesh and blood, those secular
oak forests upright.

Low voice timbre and some tune, like all deaf people, because what
he was and more that degree of "lieutenant", he said:

- Do not ask
your pardon for the habits and occupations in which I found, because
if it had to decline to hire me as often as I use in these harsh work,
not to employ me.

I give them all the bread that nourishes my body, but help me keep him, and as a par that convenient
to me are very nice and I have to honor, what they accuse me of as a sin against the rings of
my lineage?

Knowing then that we purpose to spend the night there, he turned quickly
to Neluco and said with gentle smile

- Because of that, and since
you know the house well, take care you do the honors of it this gentleman,
while I give below some provisions that are necessary for be entirely
yours.

Enter, therefore, rise, ask for and take as to feel hungry what you have.

This pushed me gently toward the tower, then took two hacks for the war horses, and physically
dragged to the hatch where it had left the enclosure, while name of his voice to the servant
who was responsible for them.

I Guiomar Neluco and I followed him: the portal was open, sandwiched between the tower and an end
buildings that form two sides of the spacious corralada we entered, closing on the other side
of a wall that joins the other corner of the tower with the front
border of the square buildings.

These were three, but in one piece and the same height, and different each time, but all more
modern than the tower, particularly the principal. Was not this house as ostentatious as the
Pomares of promise but as "good birth" and certainly most ancient lineage. Good large fenced garden
and near the pen. The most notable of this was for me the tower, which gave two fronts the corral,
one of which, not at its center, was the gateway to her low narrow and reinforced with huge
nails and large rusty iron bars. Had four floors and ended with a graceful stone parapet with gargoyles
to drain roof targeted. It seemed a venerable old building, and I was right on the course.

After
giving an overview of all those features accessories, stables and chicken coops inclusive, of
the mansion gentleman whom we visited, and always under the direction of Neluco, I followed
him inside and I astragalus upstairs, so we could piece called stage or receiving room, spacious
with a large balcony lights iron, joists outdoor tables and floor with mighty chestnut. The
walls hung portraits of old, family, in order of seniority, from
the coat of mail to the wig and ruffled; two gold carved cornucopias,
similar to those that were in my room in the Tablanca mansion, and
a penitent St. Jerome, very spoiled.

The furniture style kept no rhyme or reason, and each and all its contents around the room, and in
the same room, she started very least the footprint of skilful hands of the "lady of the House
", it was missing for not having the owner still needed to throw the cross his loneliness, which
should not weigh much. Surely, this woman had not consented piles of old and moth-eaten tomes on
the red damask sofa, or a carved oak bench reps two green chairs, no two stones Celtic and Roman
a heap of rubble on the bench of oak and walnut console, despite being one and the other good
prey in their endless ancestral archaeological explorations in these regions and surrounding
villages, and a shotgun behind the door of the balcony, or a Colodra hung a portrait. It would also
have found Mrs absent much to order, or even that dedusting and even be swept in the next room,
which was the office or study room of the Lord. Because That of the heavens so help me! I
was also on books from their shelves, and reams newspapers, and bundles of papers and piles
of magazines, and fossil bones, and footlights and "bowls" Roman, bronze and rusty, and copies
of panicles many breeds, in chairs, on the floor, at the writing table and I think even in the
air!

Walking on this research, we made a woman more than fifty, clean and friendly, to ask what we
wanted to take while it was time for dinner in that house was that of the eight, for suspected
that we had to come faint ... Dímosle thanks, securing of any food that needed to supper,
and leave us again alone.

Neluco still refused to provide me with the news that I was asking about how to be that gentleman
of such strange and striking garments, preferring to go himself dándoseme to know ... and "then
we would talk."

For one thing, reading the labels of some books on the shelves, the doctor took one and put in my
hands.

- This is his work - I said at the same time - recently printed by the Royal Academy Spanish after
having publicly honored at the event.

Titulábase: historical essays, etymological and philological research on family names from Castilian
the tenth century to our age.

- And this one - added Neluco, while I read the index of the first,
showing the label of another book -: News of the behetrías historic,
primitive Castilian freedoms ... This book is a wonder of erudition
and wit, and is very admired by the Montagnards who breathing, and
traditionalism "scientific and democratic patriarchal is inspired.

Shown in, among other things, the laws of the Council, the ancient and important livestock on
the mountain.

And here again, The Edda, translation of the poem of that name, something like the Iliad of the
Swedes is the dawn literary company of our friend. Then in every newspaper and every magazine
of those who are scattered here, there is some work of scholarship or criticism, and straightened
them all to the good and the greater glory of the province that is very marked in telling him among
their children, and particularly in the region he was born, lives and want to die ... You see,
... The Garcilaso ... admirable biographical series of this dynasty of warriors and poets
of junction quiet ... Let's see what roll is this ... pull you over there, because it will not fit
on the table ... A plane made and signed by him, well recently. I already had some news of this
great work. Project channeled and risks of Híjar from Riaño to Reinosa ... It seems the work of an
accomplished engineer ... Well insurance have this binder full of notes of work in preparation.
Did not I? ... The mountain part of the navigators in the discovery of America ... Biography of
the famous D. dramatic poet Pedro Calderón de la Barca ... Juan de la Cosa ...

- I know that has two novels and a legend because I have seen unpublished manuscripts, historical
and hill too ... His style elegant, spirited, clean Castilian, net as blood running through
his veins; of their way of seeing and feeling the earth mother and singing her beauty already
you will notice when I admire in his writings ... But canary! allow me tell you frankly that this
must have formal men like us, who You have no forgiveness of God
to make me aware me that these things should be very familiar, even
as the mountain is his blood, as it does not (although this should
suffice) because all her Spanish.

Neluco was right, and so he confessed with the utmost freshness. Ah, as if he had known To my ignorance
in these individuals! ... All my learning literature Spanish could comfortably in a cigarette
paper! Outside Madrid writers did not know one, or name. Fortunately, no Neluco insisted on
the issue, that if you insist, singing plane. And why deny, if it was the truth and I, until
then, I was embarrassed it?

In these and other, as it was evening and we were almost in the dark between the squares of the
firm, returned to the hall, at precisely the same time he entered the master of the house, a lighted
lamp in his hand. We apologized for the delay after giving us good nights, and continued walking
towards his office on whose board put the lamp. We returned after he us ... and another surprise
for me! The rustic grass had replaced Downloader the coarse garb of the trade with a coat closed
and all associated accessories to the pledge of eternal difference,
including the dressing, very careful, beard and hair.

More than a man with remnants of peasant village, it seemed then that singular campurriano cutting
character, a minister, or something like that, he was about to give audience. So well sat
coat, and as "Lord were his manners.

Such as walking deep in these reflections I will look up and down with ill-concealed curiosity,
notóla him and he said, smiling:

- Do not think, my friend, I have these harnesses aristocratic dress so you can see that I have them.
Less than that of Infanzon my weaknesses without privileges. Neluco should know. But I like
to give each what he deserves, and I have still quite frank with
you, that is a gentleman and man of the world to welcome in my house
for the first time, dress road.


The new-comers were then lashed to the mizzen rigging like the rest of us, and we all waited
with what hope and patience we could for the sea to calm down.

By this time, it was late in the afternoon; and, presently, the sun sank down away to the west
in his ocean bed, surrounded by a radiant glow of crimson and gold that flashed upward from
the horizon to the zenith. - Mom, do not know what they have done in my room these guys! - Uttered with difficulty Eulalia
and ready to weep .-- All have upset and spoiled! ... Tooth powders full of water! ... The
essence bottles open and less than half! ... Made soap a repl! ... Toothbrushes on the floor!
... The sponge full of crap! ... The quilt of my bed full of frosting! And the towel see how
they have left! ...

And showed to the bystanders with a hand towel where the coal were identified as Filthy handpick
his cousin and brother, and the other a basin containing a black
liquor thick, that by moving the left stained.

- But who has done
that? - Asked Dona Martina.

- Enrique and Miguel.

- It will be seen
more pig boy! - Exclaimed, turning to the table to close the first.

And when he drew near pulled a couple of blows that were heard in the kitchen, and this other
couple, and then another and so on, until D. Bernardo said aloud
and compelling:

- Women!

Doña Martina correction suspended and turned his eyes to her husband
with surprise.

- Notes - said he lowered his voice and pointing to
the Colonel - that there are people ahead ...

- V. Excuse me, colonel
- said Mrs. suppressed anger yet, - but I can not help ... This child
with cochinerías kills me!

The son, meanwhile, gave such cries, I will not say in the kitchen,
but throughout the neighborhood should heard perfectly.

He had risen from his chair, and at the height of the furor hit in a corner kick horrendous on the
ground.

- Contra!

Recontra! I c. .. ten! ... That slut! ... For that scoundrel! ... By that metebaza! ...

- Chis! Hush! ... Hush, child! - Said D. Bernardo, further furrowing the brow, which, indeed,
it seemed impossible.

- Come on Henry! - Dona Martina said, trying to restrain.

- Why not stick to Miguel who did more than I recontra? - Shouted
in fury.

- Come on Henry! - She cried Dona Martina .-- Let the party
in peace!

The sea really was calming down at last.

God was watching over us!

"Say, captain," said Mr Marline, who was the first to bestir himself, "do you think there's
any prospect of our righting the ship?"

The captain was asleep, I believe, for the first mate had to repeat his question twice before
he could get an answer.

"I'm sure I hope so," at last sleepily muttered Captain Miles, with a portentous yawn--"only
wait till the swell calms down and we'll see about it."

"But it is calm now," rejoined the other.

"Then wake me again when it is calmer," replied Captain Miles; and then, he turned on his side
and proceeded with his nap as coolly as if he were comfortably tucked up in his nice swinging
cot in the cabin.

"Well!" exclaimed Mr Marline, "of all the cool, self-possessed men I ever met in my life, you
beat the lot!"

He was talking to himself, but the hands heard him, and there was a general snigger all round,
the captain's very composure having given confidence to all.  The men believed that he would
not have taken things so quietly unless he had some sure hope of our speedy release from such
a precarious position.

"He is a rare brave un," put in Moggridge.  "I've sailed with him man and boy for many a v'y'ge
afore this, and I allers found him the same, calm and plucky in danger, and keeping a stiff
upper lip when in perils that frighten other folk.  Captain Miles, sir, is a man as a sailor
should be proud to sail under--that's what I says!"

"Eh, what, what?" murmured the captain, half waking up on hearing his name spoken, and lifting
his head from between his clasped hands.

"I was a-saying, sir, as how you knew what's what," replied the boatswain, "and I don't know
of any other man I'd say sich of."

"Belay that," said Captain Miles, rousing up now and rubbing his eyes. "Ah, it's morning, I
see!  Well, Mr Marline, and how goes it?"

"As well as can be expected under the circumstances," answered the other.

"Bother circumstances," rejoined the captain; "we must make the best of them we can.  Now,
let us see what's to be done."

"Do you think we can right her, sir?" asked the mate repeating his old query.

"Right her? yes, certainly, if we can cut away the masts.  She's not water-logged, and all
sound below, I fancy, as far as I can see; for the hatches have been battened down since Monday."

"But she's rather down by the head, sir," said Mr Marline, as the two rose on their feet and
proceeded to look round the vessel as well as they could from the top of the poop bulwarks,
whence they surveyed her position and surroundings.

"Ah!" exclaimed Captain Miles, "the fore-peak must have been left open when those spare sails
were got out, so that she has taken in some water there.  Never mind, though, there's a stout
bulkhead separating the compartment from the main hold, and, if there's no leak below, we'll
be all right."

"But, the masts have been working the decks all this time," suggested the mate, "and if the
sea has got in through the straining of the timbers we must sink in time."

"Sink your grandmother, Marline!" retorted the captain, "you forget that our main cargo is
rum, which is ever so much lighter than water, and more buoyant.  As long as we have that below
we'll float, never you fear!  But, the job is to cut away the masts if we can; she'll never
right, of course, till that is done. 

XII

Faltábame know, between what was not unknown to avail me in this
vast and untamed region, leaving the valley of the river basin to
its outlet, which would have completed I traverse the backbone of
the Cantabrian Mountains on one of its most significant vertebrae;
and as fully in those days I was in the vein of exploration and running
around, though, God knows, rather than by desire for curiosity, for
fear of enervating inaction opposite the formidable enemy, rode an
early morning in the hairy hack how sensibly I had brought and led
by the rugged mountain's most dangerous, and, of himself and deliberate
attempt, alone and without other guide than instinct and long experience
the honest quadruped, plus some reports that I had provided speech
the night before in the party of my uncle went through the ruined
bridge linking both sides of the short Nansa distance of the house,
and set off along the well trodden path by wriggling the slope of
the hill, accompanying the constant sound of running water in the
invisible channel gloomy background to many sticks under my feet.

I doubted that, after what he had seen in the high mountains, the basin had river from Tablanca down
anything that might captivate my attention, and it did, in effect: while being rough, narrow
and untamed in its highest part, lacked the greatness stunning gorges 'up'. The people, crowded
together, in separate Rinconada throat, were going my way with the regularity of a railway
station. One more sunny that few had left behind, suddenly appeared to my view a small valley
at the foot of a hill very fast, why my hack down step by step through a maze of old and copudos
admirable oak that seemed placed there to keep forest lands attached to the skeleton: the slope
was so bitter.

Come to Happy Valley, though a little back pain myself, for the continued effort done with it
to preserve the body in the vertical line on the horse, parallel
the ground, I knew that the people discerned by me during the descent
through the thick gaps colonnade of trunks, was Robacio.

I remembered then and Chisco Neluco, and I assumed that the the first house would be a big
"four waters", which was not far from the road, and I assumed However, according to his response
to a question I did a clean handsomest muchachuco face and clothing, playing with others of
more humble coat, in a next brañuca the portal. Answering my question, leave the game and go
to open the shutter, while the other little boys, suspense and some cut, I watched with eyes wide
open, was all one, and no sooner had reared its head in the corral, when there began to shout:

-
Mother! ... Madreee! Here is a man who comes home!

And if that was not enough, undid the latch from inside the gates,
and opened wide so as to pass me without dismount.

With this noise and clamor that, before just been amazed by the occurrence, I was on the porch
and in front of pitching me, a middle-aged woman, good and healthy meat color, and the modest
attire homemade ordinarily used everyday wealthy matrons of that region. With this, and find
pretty much in your face with that of Neluco not doubted that the woman was his sister. I alighted
from a jump, and without taking care of the horse, began, as he walked toward her with his hat
in hand, to get rid of excuses, to explain the event ... I was extremely pleased get to their
feet, know personally, to offer my respects, but this would have Indeed ... I thought so, at
other times less untimely ... on my return in the afternoon ... the fault was that little devil
that without giving me time to explain, had been quick to call ...

In all this, she looked me straight in the eye, until, without saying
it as I got to thinking say, his face bathed all rosy Noblot and a
huge smile that could be called if Smiles are measured as the area;
started toward me with both hands outstretched, and cutting off the
disjointed speech said suddenly:

- Virgin is my mother!

Nah, you is the nephew of Don Celso.

Declared that he was, and she continued, still holding my hand in hers:

- He knew me by Nah, you Neluco Aya who was, and why, and by air, and something that has said ...
and for these hearts that maybe has one ... Daughter, which I'm glad! ... Well, go! ... And
how is the poor Don Celso? ... Mal, I think, what we said Neluco ... Because Neluco is so loving and
so ... We, as apegao to yours, what time you have remaining in its obligation Robacio Catalan
... But what we do here plantificados on the portal? Suba rise, Don Marcelo, and rest as it should,
and will make him lunch ... Do not! Here we are all about. "Nah, you do not know? Did not
said Neluco? The mansion of Don Celso and our house ... Go!

... from parents to children is the esteem and good law and to the relationship, if a little dig
in the blood ...

I earned excuses, though I pondered over the day I had to do before
night, and who was embarrassed for her time.

- Tendral to spare -
the jovial matron told me and guiding me down the stairs - to the
work and as much again, if you know to take advantage of it, and I
do not believe it that waste time spent in comforting the body to
the mita of the way ... Go with it!

And the worst of the story is that it is "he" and not come away until
lunchtime, rather than less ... Go in the winter morio rigging that
broke the other month, and as having work hand misses to lose sight
... I do not really feel little when you know!

... Daughter, what a coincidence!

Well already Nah, you will see when going back this afternoon ... Although better off to stay
at let us eat and walk for another occasion ... Wow that is craving to reach the to the highway!
... Twice in my life I have set foot in it ... See if I'm correntona ... Well, well ...

Speaking for this art as he climbed the stairs and I followed step by step, rather than what impossible
to address it in his quaint talk, thought the resemblance was between her Lita's mother and not
only by the character, but by the style, not knowing me, then as I learned in time and meet
new people, which in that form and those Campeche and llanotes air, bubbles always generous and hospitable
spirit of ladies of that rugged mountain region.

At the top of the stairs, it was not long, entered the cruise ever, for all wealthy homes of
those heights, and even the equivalent of the lower valleys I known then seem to be made by
the same plane, except that I found the novelty of Robacio that caught my attention very nicely,
and was to have the walls of all passages literally covered, floor to ceiling, with strings of tassels,
which, being open doors and balconies and sun flooded the whole house glowed like oriental tapestries
embroidered gold and pearls.

I admire him even left the good sister Neluco because they rushed considering I walked among leading
to the hall and call out and get a maid, meanwhile, things in a cupboard and other things in
a closet, and put the first in the hands of the monsoon (Which did
not come as soon as she wanted) with a good string of warnings and
orders a low voice, and the second on a table that was in the room,
leaning against a wall, and walk back and forth without leaving me
all alone and never short of conversation, more closely or more away,
I found no time to think calmly at any point in to fix the attention.

At last he stopped and calmed the gale it, and picking up what had previously put on the table
and placing it temporarily in the chairs immediately, raised the wing it was free and folded,
not two, not needed as much space to myself, as was kind enough to warn me, lay on the resulting
board a snowy white tablecloth; put on it a bottle of wine, a solid silver covered and dated form,
two glasses, three plates piled up, a loaf of bread, still warm, as I said Mrs. complacent,
because there was still two hours I had baked the pen, a hard cheese,
sheep, and about half a miller of walnuts and hazelnuts.

Meanwhile, he kept talking to me, and I had many questions without waiting for each of them to receive
my reply, in whole, to the last. I asked, first and foremost by their relative Don Pedro Nolasco
and his daughter Mari Pepa, of the same age as her close friend from children, almost his sister,
because as sisters wanted ... Well what about Lita, Lituca? It was a seraph that something more
than woman.

How beautiful, how sharp, how industrious! If she were a man and young singles, I knew who to
marry, as you would like Lita. And his brother Neluco! ... Many times had told him! What do you
want the substance, man? What more could you wish for? ... If apareáis as print ... Ah, cold
bread satanincas! ... Tochu rather than tochu! When Lita would Robacio, was the joy of the house,
or canary in a cage of gold could be compared to it.

In these and other started to give me in the nose a pleasant smell of fried food, and with it
came a predator in the room about six years, with the snout very sticky and damaged doublet,
then Like other hair, but younger, then another less than two, then a little boy blonde, doe-eyed,
very lean of taps and long arms, behind her, another girl is brown carrilluda black eyes and
thick calves, which brought the hand of a little boy very cheerful to be reeling with their booties
walking bandy, and, finally, came the boy with his insolent diligence had been the cause of
what was happening there. All that offspring, appeared one by one, slowly and looking suspicious,
it was placing semicircle, very tight in front of me, and as they did not know what to say,
though I would asked a lot of nonsense, and his mother was naming
me the order of age, while The scolding, and not with great courage,
daring a rude, everyone entertained the time and carried the wrong
time as best he could: who pinching their noses, who scratched head
and who some part of his body lower and more back.

"But it does not - I said while his mother - which governs these dragged Satan? Nah, you put
them head to toe as May sun as it pulled out of bed every day, so Nah, you see them as the is a
half hour ... and if school is like today, being Thursday, is something you can not watch them
or tolerate them. Lord and heavenly Father, what creatures! ... But are they in good health that
is what matters, and others and will go out in time. Is not it true? ... Well, Now come here and Scoot
to the table ... excuse the miseriuca by goodwill So I offer it to lack of anything better. "

This
was said when they saw the maid with a big bowl in hand, containing two pairs fried eggs and a huge
amount of back and fried ham, with a corresponding fence potatoes.

There were the expected obstinacy on what little I met me, and how much she offered with generous
obstinacy, thinking that "left him for timidity." At last we compromise I take a little longer than
I needed, and handing the rest to what she offered, among the seven raptor with eyes that devoured
the succulent entertainment smoking on the table.

It also came as it up there and I was beginning to miss the talk of the sister Neluco, the thesis that
as usual I had the good people of these valleys, if I was enjoying the land of my forefathers,
the difference would find among those solitudes and the grandeur and fun to be seasoned in
Madrid ... and, finally, pity it would not take the valley of the good law that he deserved,
for, dead Don Celso, that she had to have already died, Tablanca remained without father and
without a shadow of protection. Y if I knew how well it was worth that shadow in that town,
and what they were being worth other like it since ancient times! To know well, you had to see what
was happening in other places that were not as passed and also Robacio, unfortunately. There was
no union and peace with one another, because of four covered by many others pushed around "Cabayerus
of aya out" that the people did not remember more than the chances of needing the backs of
those poor loose and clamber on the post that suited them, and Pipi to cluster like grapes. This
did not happen in Tablanca, where he was not a fly, nor did input those characters rather
than with your account and reason. It was nice that brotherhood each other, and that debt-free
municipality, and that neighborhood without hunger and well dressed. For all this fortune would
end up with Don Celso, if I am not encouraged to pick up the brakes
he would loose their hands to move to better life.

The uniqueness of this thesis, so groped by each other, was for me
the solemnity and depth the feeling that exposed me everywhere.

The same sister Neluco so funny and as jocular in their ripped speeches, formalized until moved
to exponérmela. Y this was the side where my attention more than one item, which was, moreover, degenerating
mania.

With the agreement and promises the usual diplomatic forced me to take in such cases, say for
finished item and with the pretext of the rush I had, finished lunch and the visit, not knowing
before the inexhaustible goodness of that incomparable woman, his older brother, lawyer of considerable
note, was married in Valladolid, and that Neluco that and for being too young and still walk
the Ceca to Mecca, had become partitions with her father's house, but like all brothers, because
Robacio lawyer down to almost every summer, and Neluco each day that it was possible.

Enjoyed it being a blessing from God when they were all together, young and old; and the more
crowded the better. And they were tight in those times often because though the house was great,
as were a lot of crops and livestock maze ... Virgin Mother how he liked these chores to your
husband! As with liking both, surely did not like more than her ...

Well these treats are revealed throughout the house, particularly downstairs. In the portal, where
you see the open doors of the stables, an oven with its roof protector, a well with the corresponding
utility room, large piles of firewood and a bullock cart under a shed, it smelled of hay, we heard
the shots and cattle and shearing cencerrillos imprisoned in the stables, and compass sideways
as the neglected, a large flock about a "club", gnawing at the bottom
of my horse, and tied to the pole desembridado with a rope by the
neck, the last grain of corn that I had entertained more Neluco nephew,
while her mother entertained me me in the room upstairs with eggs
and ham.

This statement was known by the same little boy, when I asked, very pleased, by the author of occurrence.
Encouraged by the success of it, went out of the pile of brothers, who had come down in droves
with her mother behind me, and in a trice flanges the hack after throwing scraps to the petty
flock of feed, took the tame beast the yard, and planted there, in due form, to ride me. As abbreviated
farewell I could condense my expressions of heartfelt thanks to the
greed, fear verbose luxuries Neluco's sister, who were causing the
most trivial to overflow; I rode fast slipping into the hand of the
little boy that I had a nickel bracket silver without his mother saw
him, a gift that filled him with astonishment and anxiety to redden
and let's face staggering, so it was very hard to open up the portal,
and saw as wide, paid with a smile and a recent hat offers the inexhaustible
matron brañuca went outside to hear the farewell from the inside "to
afternoon "; pique to hack mercilessly, and took the road down the
river like I pursue wolves from rabies.

I think, without being very sure of it for failing to fix the attention with great effort in the
table that there begins the actual widening of the basin and the river to take a break from the
fatigues of his rapid decline, tending to the long on good stretches nearly level and well
sunlit. I do remember well is that with the freedom that get these on widths, the river and the
road (to the left and it's one) are separated from each other with
some Often, but not be lost sight of completely.

At the end of the day, no obligation have to walk everywhere together, and indeed so, the
path, without obstacles or impediments like the river, that force you to fall continuously and
for a certain channel, perhaps was put on a shortcut up the hill to greet rejoicing after the hill
from the hill Stony his partner pulled, sweating fat drop to get into the deep a narrow valley
between alders, pebbles and reeds.

Where they meet again the two comrades is towards the end of your trip, shake basin again, but
not growing very much the banks, and does not return the river to enjoy other than flat ground
burial, scalloped along its land bank by a road neither real nor I saw Nansa until we find
me on top of him, and the river crashing against the abutments of the bridge linking the two
banks.

They gave my fond farewell, while drowning in an embrace their whispers (which for our journey of
six hours had not ceased for a moment) the brackish waters treacherous waiting for him still
and clear as a mirror to look at the clouds in the sky lying in the sun on a vast plain dotted
with islands of green upholstery and fragrant rushes. This picturesque river is separated from
the sea by a very high barrier: a black bush and stony cracked from top to bottom, thus leaving
a very narrow gap where the water is strained and boats and is the Bay of Biscay, looking
from the inside, like a piece of sky through the bars of a prison.

Everyone seemed very nice picture for its lines, its light and color, but despite it, briefly occupied
my attention because my mind was gone by very different paths.


"And does the weed grow to the bottom?"  I asked.

"Bottom?  Why, there are no soundings here under four miles, and it would take a pretty long
root to stretch to such a depth!  No, the sargasso weed floats and lives on the surface.  When
examined closely, it is found to have an oblong narrow serrated leaf of a pale yellow colour,
resembling somewhat in form a cauliflower stripped of its leaves, the nodules being composed
of a vast number of small branches, about half an inch long, which shoot out from each other
at a sharp angle, and hence multiply continually towards the outer circumference of the plant,
each extreme point producing a round seed-vessel like a berry.  A great number of little crabs,
barnacles, and small shell-fish are generally found attached to the weed, as Captain Miles
mentioned just now when he said we might find something to eat amidst the branches of it in
an emergency.  It is wonderful sometimes to see with what regularity the weed is arranged across
the ocean when the wind blows. It looks then exactly like a meadow does after it has been fresh
mown and the grass is left upon it in long swathes by the scythe at equal distances apart."

"There, Master Tom," put in Captain Miles here, "I think you know now all that Mr Marline can
tell you about the Sargasso Sea and the weed to be found there.  It's about time we all turned
in now for the night, for the sun has set and it will soon be dark.  Have all you men," he
called out aloud, "lashed yourselves securely?"

"Aye, aye, sir," they answered one by one, Moggridge coming last.

"Then good night, and good cheer, my lads!" he cried.  "Keep your peckers up, and to-morrow
morning.  I daresay, we'll see our way out of this predicament.  I don't think it is going
to blow any more, so you may compose yourselves to rest as cosily, my lads, as if you were
in your bunks here, without fear of anything much troubling you, for the sharks can't harm you!"

The sun had set by this time and the evening grew gradually dark, for there was no moon, as
the heavens were overcast; but still, the wind did not get up again, and the motion of the
ship being easy enough we lay along the side of the ship very comfortably, most of the men
soon falling asleep, and I soon following their example.

It must have been towards morning, for a dim sort of light was beginning to be perceptible
in the east, we were wakened up by a terrible yell. 

For all these things observe with equal and timely in all villages was must make a statement,
which clearly and minutely arranged government method economic development of each people, and serve
as ordinance and other factors used in this management, which, if necessary, would be easy to
train, practice and knowledge through I have of terms can be practiced and practiced.

Managed and implemented the proposed method, in my opinion would be favorable infallible result, and
for the factory to the Indians, since wages were safe, and where provided all their needs, those
who did not have their own crops, and those who had none security to sell all their fruit at a price
fixed and determined, and the factory security grown about increases in all areas that would benefit,
leaving no doubt that in a funds and people of medium proportions would not drop from 8 to
10,000 pesos annual profits, still considered the principles and tasks with only the present, what
you evidenciaré with the next score.

In a village whose rooms have 20,000 head of cattle, begat of not lower 4,000 of misses a year,
and having, as they all breeds of mares and mules, produced also the increase of young animals
well so that I have found that by lowering those killed, lost, stolen, annual consumption of
stay, and computing wages of laborers and foremen, passes for 3,000 pesos the value of the annual
increase in a room like the proposal.

In a town that has 1,200 souls among young and old, does not lower the annual consumption of
2,500 cattle, and although not dealt only 2,000, whereas the remaining ones to give feed the laborers
who will work on behalf of the factory, and consider a utility weight
in each, according to what I have said, are 2,000 pesos.

Limited as they are in the grocery store sales of the effects of daily consumption, having to provide
themselves with all the people there, not being possible that taking
money from wages stop buying what they desire, can be computed gains
in this sector, at least at 1,000 pesos per year.

While growing yerbales peoples are very deteriorated and are short
of crops, but we can always regulate your product at 500 pesos a year,
after rebates wages that can be used in cultivation and weed.

The cotton crop can easily produce the same as the grass, and even exceeded in much, if you get a
little application.

The planting and benefit of snuff, and twisted like enmanojado, is a row of little use, and beneficial
as we have said can be assured without risk of mistake, which would 1,000 pesos surrender the profits.

The
fabrics in linen, in a village in the number of people expressed, in the day up to 16,000
beam, without nearly as many that weave dressing particularly his
own; and so, but do not count but the same 16,000 yards, and they
average real income in each stick to the factory, is 1,000 pesos.

The purchase of goods brought from Buenos Aires to sell to the Indians in these terms, I think
it would not be less than 4,000 pesos of annual principal, at least one or two years past, which,
charging them fifty percent, occur in the sale 6,000 pesos, of which
2,000 of utility, and considering that the cost of buying commission,
handling and sales taxes amounted to 500 pesos, were free to 1,500.

Although there are many other peoples that make utility classes, such as benefits grass in the
mountains, the cattle, cutting wood and referral, the benefit of the sugar and honey, indigo, should
it be established, and many others who are targeted, I will not stop
to make computation of profits give up, because for my attempt suffice
implied, and that they show sufficient profits, as shown in the following
summary.

                                                         
   
   Pesos Utilities begat the 3,000 rooms Idem meat consumption
   in 2,000 people Ditto for the 1000 general store Ditto for
   the herb that benefits the 500 people Ditto for 500 cotton
   Ditto the benefit of snuff 1,000 Idem of cotton canvas fabrics
   1,000 Ditto the purchase of goods from outside the province
   1,500
   

   There are 10,500 pesos

The resulting short history of free utilities to the factory, 10,500 pesos.

It is true that some people can not expect these utilities, at least in principle, because their
rooms are very backward, and the small number of Indians would not allow the power undertake
many tasks, nor the supplies and stores would yield much, but it is also true that there are
others who by their proportions, and many of them, far exceed. I have no doubt to ensure that even
the principles, would not drop the annual increases in the thirty
villages in the province of 300,000 pesos, and I found this sum settlement
of government general of the province as well as particular to each
people.

To establish the proposed arrangement was necessary to the principles which de Buenos Aires
Some people send a lot of money, even 2 or 3,000 pesos for each village, Without it nothing
would be verifiable, and being sure thing that many people are not there equity, the royal
treasury could suplírseles to snuff account that would benefit later. To this decision I think there would
be no pregnancy, because the mercy of His Majesty crossing in the new ordinance their real
assets to help the needy Indians, supplying them by way of loan, without interest, they need to
promote them, delivering them and of the divisions that suffered before. And although that provision
is directed to assist individuals, and this the common, as in common include individuals,
should be by the same, taking it the advantage of greater security in the collection, which I the
most backward village concept, the second or third year, and would
have satisfied what had supplied.

Having to be so vast management factors, and these subjects, as expressed, I think debérseles
noted ten percent of the profits which will be at the factory, that is the same as indicated
by law to guardians of minors by the administration of its goods, but should not be allowed
any money or merchandise is special in itself, nor intermediary, nor any thing that use of
the factory, except the room, which should be the principal houses, not anything else. And if
for would ease the work they wanted to have a dependent, was Spanish or Indian, should pay for
the work that have gone on their profits, not understanding that the who run the grocery stores,
foremen or other employees in the benefit, preservation and increased the factory, because they,
like all other laborers and workers, they should pay their salaries and wages of the management
body, as they worked to their advantage and utility, and all other expenses that were offered
in the village that had no relationship or are intended to benefit the assets of the factory, the person
should be the utility that this corresponded, such as food and costumes of old handicapped, sick
priest poor salaries of justices, actual payment of taxes, tithes and any useful or pious work
to be established for the benefit of the common, as we will express where appropriate.

With the allocation of ten percent to the factors I think people would not be wanting useful
that serve them, considering that the peoples of a middling amount at least to 10,000 pesos
in profits, as evidenced by, and they will correspond to factor 1,000 pesos. And although
some do not amount to as much, always had the hope of promotions as merit and circumstances
of each, to reach the most profitable. Well it would be desirable that any so-called ascent without
having first served five years in the occupied village, being convenient
mudasen not very often.

For the Indian steward of each village were applied to the performance
of this important commission, and had no reason to apologize for any
embezzlement, it should be noted two percent of the profits of the
factory.

And appears quite what I have specified in order to economic government of the people, and
assets of their communities, so that you know the utilities would
continue to be, way to express to you that I understand should be
established in general province.

For the newest provisions of His Majesty are thirty people in this province subject to the jurisdiction
only governor with them in the military and justice causes, leaving the two branches of police
and real estate by the Governors mayors of Buenos Aires and Paraguay, each in the district
of his bishopric. And because I have not seen but in passing the ordinances, nor is my intention to express
to you the convenience and desconveniencias than his total adherence to these peoples could follow,
depending on circumstances of them, I will tell you what I think should, through the knowledge
that with practice I have purchased.

Although always keep the spirit and provisions of the new ordinances, general as to what their establishment
in this colony.

According to the knowledge that assists me in the situation of this province, marriage, relationship
and dependency some people have with others, and other circumstances that are very noticeable,
and it would Referring neat, I think that the best thing would be if they remained united
all thirty people, at least twenty-six, excluding or separating the four most immediate Paraguay,
which are Santiago, Santa Rosa, Our Lady of Fe and San Ignacio Guazú, who have little or no relation
with others, and are best placed to add to that province, and were ruled by a governor-mayor
who had charge of all classes in the same manner as other newly created, with power to appoint
sub-delegation in the parts as needed, for to my knowledge, one should be put an the six towns
comprising the department of San Miguel, and one in four of Yapeyú; and if the people of Santiago
department were to be subject to this province governance, should
be put there another, and the remaining villages would be all subjects
the immediate command of the governor, because they are near Candelaria,
which should be the capital.

The limits of this province, she felt even in all the thirty towns, I dies should be as follows:
on the northern side, Tebicuari River from its headwaters Ñembucú to the estuary, on the west,
the estuary to the Paraná, crossing over below the falls, following the Ibera Lagoon, including
land that is the band West of the lagoon and its slopes fall to it, and following a search
for the origin Miriñay River, which may serve as a boundary on that side to Uruguay, crossing a
seek Cuarey mouth of the river, which may serve as limits on the south side, following to its
origin and going in between the headwaters of Black River and looking
Ibicuy Portugal's borders, they serve the term of this band.

Excluding the four villages mentioned above, could serve as limits
on the band's north, the Monte Grande de Santiago, and its marshes
and swamps, which are to enter the Falls in the Paraná, and otherwise
as aforesaid.

But, as I believe, will these people in a few years make such overtaking I judge may be subject
to a bishopric erected them with incomes ping that of Paraguay, and
then another district or division should be limits, I will propose
to you for consideration and tell me what you think, because if that
was the case.

I can not seem to hide the convenience and utility of the latter river. The Current city and its
jurisdiction have their treatment and turn in these people and keep some useful correspondence
dependence and its business and trade, the profits would be higher each other if they were under
a single government. This province borders the Portugal domains across the band from the east,
and in times of disagreement with that crown not have the governor in that province but Indians
to fend off invasions, and Buenos Aires must send you the aid of Spanish people, and having under
his command to Corrientes, had in them a speedy and effective relief for any emergency. The
drawbacks to this division may be offered ignore them, and thus manifest
only conveniences that you know, as I reach.

Is so short that these natives pay tribute to His Majesty, that even in the day is not enough
to cover salaries and synods accruing to employees that the charge of the exchequer, though they
are very moderate. And if you put a governor mayor with the authority such employment is, would
need to assign a salary provided, and would be taxed more the royal treasury, and so it does not happen,
I think it would be best and the governor subdelegates as they pay their salaries from the
profits resulting to the factories; then, having to address the new form of government for good
and utility of natural these costs would be as regular their benefit be established, mostly
being found so relieved in taxes. And so I think the utilities of all peoples bring forth out
of two and a half percent, and distribute them in this way: the governor-half percent than surrender
all people, with more than two per cent of the people who were only in their care, and two percent
subdelegados of who produced the their immediate care. Thus each other would seek the advancement
of the peoples, for claimed it theirs.

Should the governor or lieutenant had a consultant lawyer, an assistant and clerk government,
and also had a protector of Indians and a tax lawyer, otherwise could
not be a good way this government, and to pay these five places could
be Take three percent of profits, pointing to each one what they seem
appropriate.

It would also be desirable to be bred a minister of the royal treasury, with the necessary dependent
actual salary paid, to tend to the recovery of real rights, real taxes and other belonging to His
Majesty, and especially the tobacco industry, which here are better
than in Paraguay, and could anticipate their cultivation and under
high magnification of real estate.

The town of Candelaria is very suitable for their situation and provide for capital the province,
and it was with more luster and brilliance could be obtained from Her Majesty the grace that
awarded him the title and privileges of city, thus getting there
courts and other ministries that after say, I have no doubt soon be
increased population with the many Spanish who avecindarían there.

For people flourish in the sciences and the arts would be more convenient than the town of Candelaria
establish a school for letters and a hospice for arts; the first should be taught from the first letters
to theology, jurisprudence, scholastic medicine and other sciences should be had to teach
these natives with all other parts of education and police, with young people in close as
to college, no jostling with each other, discarded or not acquire the hardiness that this
is raised, and were later useful in their villages, without losing the love country, as would happen
if the bring forth out to learn outside of the province. In the hospice learn arts and crafts
more useful and necessary in these villages, putting skilled teachers, and which are suited
for later distributed in their villages, working perfectly the works
of his powers and could teach others.

The libraries of all people could form a very good school of Candelaria and leaving in each village
those books that priests could serve to the very exercise of his ministry, send the rest to Buenos Aires
so that there they sold, even at a low price, and amount to buy modern
works that were required for the school library.

It would be good in the capital had a seminar to teach girls all work of their sex, and especially
the government of a house and family, the upbringing and education of children and women for others,
and so to them, as the boys should perfectly instructed in the Castilian
language, forming, for everything and have got due effect, a good
education and putting all the responsibility of a director which suited.

The

rents for these houses should keep out of the profits of all peoples, taking three percent,
and applying the same purpose also the value of the works to be working at the hospice, and the product
of the passage of cattle crossing the Parana Candelaria making it necessary step and removing
the traveling on the other hand, and if the government was some other branch or discretion, may
apply to the same end.

In each village should be sent each year to Candelaria, at least 4 boys and 2 girls always preferring
the sons of chiefs, for them there would be for that each one on purpose or had inclination, and
for every one who send, you should see with one or two dollars per month, or what should be
had by signaling for help food and clothes for them and them, that
everyone should have decently.

Also useful is sought royal permission to found convents in Candelaria could the three religions,
Santo Domingo, San Francisco and Merced, that the religious of them could occupy the chairs of
the school and practice all other matters concerning their school
and the salvation of souls, but to admit to the habit by the little
Indians who were able to do so.

Very convenient thing would be that the capital be established a provincial board, composed the
governor, his advisor, the royal treasury minister, the prosecutor and protector, and if includes
some of the sub-delegation, to take place in it, voting or not, as seemed convenient. At this
meeting and would try everything pertaining to real estate, assets
of people and police of them, giving every part of the junta superior
de Buenos Aires, so that, seen there, it is determined as appropriate.

This meeting presented the factors accounts for its consideration,
and with the advice guard, for tax and the report of the provincial
board, be referred to higher of Buenos Aires for approval.

The Buenos Aires attorneys would be convenient to surrender their accounts every two years, giving
people from those who were dependent, and the factors they would
invest in theirs, as industry dependent on them, or exposing them
saying what he pleased, and the provincial board would examine the
factor, and would turn, as already stated.

All peoples are beaded earrings, even from the time of expatriates and every day more than
its liquidation is impossible without the government can separate
hindrance offered when it comes to fit, and they pave the provincial
board all paths and settled on the best way possible.

The provincial board would fix the costs each year people would have in patron saint festivals, the days
of the King and his birthday, and other solutions; as well as the
same ordinary or extraordinary expenditure of each, giving the way
in delivering, spend and give accounts should be observed.

For the Indians were proclaiming to work on what was most useful to the province, real treasury
and to them, could have the same provincial board in each of the villages should be brought more
awards to apply and advance in the occupations or more branches useful, as practiced in Spain
in real economic societies of friends the country, getting these
awards from mutual funds, according to the peoples they had, and giving
all part of the upper board for approval.

The loose spars detached from the masts were hauled up lengthwise along the bulwarks on the
inner side of the poop, where they were lashed securely so as to form a sort of shelf; and,
on this, all hands now settled themselves as comfortably as they could--Captain Miles with
Mr Marline and myself being on the after part of the structure, while Jackson with the others
bunked down nearer the break of the poop; but, each man was separately tied, for greater precaution,
in case of the sea getting up again and the waves breaking over the vessel.

While we had been moving about exerting ourselves, the sense of hunger had not been so apparent,
although all experienced its gnawing pain in a greater or less degree; but now, resting quietly,
doing nothing and having to bear all the suspense of waiting for what might turn out possibly
to be only an uncertainty on the morrow, the ravenous feeling that assailed us became almost
unbearable, several of the men moaning and groaning in their sleep.

As for myself, I know that when I dozed off in fragmentary snatches of sleep I dreamed of all
sorts of splendid banquets, with nice dishes such as I had often tasted in the West Indies
when dad gave a dinner-party; only to waken up in the still darkness and hear the melancholy
wash of the sea surging up against the ship's hull, with the creaking noise the masts made
as they surged to and fro on the swell.

Up to midnight, as far as we could tell the time, no breeze came; but, towards morning, a slight
wind arose, when the sea became agitated, as we could hear from the sound of it breaking over
the hull forwards, the ends of the masts worked to and fro more boisterously, grinding against
the starboard bulwarks and tearing the timbers away bit by bit. 

A train leaving the thing in the world is more like a book that is over. When trains back, opened
and new pages.

XLI

= Cabinet Bringas house. Nightfall .=

Dismayed .--=( ROSALIA, giving the air with a fan, with a handkerchief, with a newspaper and
everything in by hand.) = A will give me something.

It seems that the blood carries me and that raises me all in your head ... Do not tell me more,
man, for Christ's sake, no tell me more.

Heinous immorality stuns me, overwhelms me, makes me crazy ... And what you saw? Illusion Would
you ...?

THIERS .-- As he had not see!

In the car was quiet, well sheltered at, not saying This mouth is mine, and so happy that threw
light on the eyes ...

ROSALIA .-- And you had the patience to witness such a scandal? ... With that you can not do
his wife because she is a ... and make your darling ...!

I am blown ... So great shame our family, this family honored and exemplary few, drives me
crazy ... = (Looking at you hard.) = "And do not say anything?," put up with in your beard ...?

.--=(
THIERS Preparing to tell a fib.) = So my outrage was when Augustine me I said ... because he had the
shamelessness to confess his weakness ... I was outraged as well, I said four things and I turned
my back and I left the station.

ROSALIA .--=( Met.) = So did you? Of course, you could not restrain your anger. He came back
back, you left the word in the mouth ...

.--=( THIERS Asking God for forgiveness mind your lies.) = As I tell you. The truth is that we can
not treat more with my cousin.

Who had to say!, Moderate man, everything I wanted to take the spearhead,
and miss the good principles, kicking the Society, Religion, Family,
venerating to everything, in short!

... If it is I say: the approaching dislocations.

This goes to the trap. The revolution is not long; come the spoils of the rich, atheism, free
love.

ROSALIA .-- come, and I think it will come, and more ... When horrors are so incredible, everything
can wait. = (Sofocadísima.) = No cataclysm and take me again.

.--=( THIERS Melancholy.) = Just have eyes to see that this society quickly loses respect for all.
Made public derision of the throne and the altar, the rot of demoralization
rife, and when I see that mine is free of infection, it seems a miracle.

ROSALIA

.--=( Pensive.) = Did not he say whether he would return with the
precious cargo to his mistress?

THIERS .-- Yes, again, again ...

ROSALIA .--=( With extraordinary swelling of the nose.) = I do not
want to stay in my within four truths that I say from one to the other.
Oh, no, no I will. I will be able to go to France to Beijing vent
my anger ...

THIERS .-- The best day I have here as campers ... and
live as married, insulting to honesty, virtue ... We see each atrocity
... Joaquin said it very clearly Paquito and the other afternoon,
shattering the pick and the incendiary torch are prepared. The demagoguery
...! Oh, I forgot one important thing. Something we are winning. He
told me that fool you could have everything that was purchased for
the wedding.

CAUTION .--=( from the door.) = Lady soup.

ROSALIA
.--=( addition, losing his looks in the portrait of Juan de Pipaón,
is represented with a roll of paper in his hand.) = return. Here I
want to have, here! ... Leech of the blessed, we will see the faces.

END
OF TORMENT.

Madrid. January 1884.  This made our situation less
comfortable than it had been previously, our worn-out bodies and hunger- stricken frames not
being able to stand the exposure so well now as at first.

The masts, also, were grinding against the bulwarks and making a horrible din, the crunching
of the timber work and splintering noise of the planks almost deadening the noise of the sea
and preventing us from hearing each other speak.  Not that we felt much inclined for conversation,
answering for myself; for, I was chilled to the bone from the cool evening air penetrating
my wet clothes, which got more and more saturated as the waves came over the poop, while I
was faint with hunger and exhausted from want of sleep.

Thus the weary night passed, the sky being clouded over so that even the lights of heaven could
not shine down to cheer us up; and, to add to the bitterness of our unhappy plight, our hearts
were full of the untimely end of poor Gottlieb, the German sailor who had passed away so suddenly
from amongst us, and the shocking disclosure he had made just before his tired spirit sought
eternal rest, of the treachery of Davis--whose terrible fate, in front of our very eyes, seemed
a just judgment for his murder of Hermann and foiled vengeance on Jackson, the latter of whom
had evidently only escaped with his life through the wretched man's mistake.

At last, when it seemed as if we could hold out no longer, a faint gleam appeared in the east
lighting up the horizon, and morning dawned gloomily upon us; but, a heavy mist hung over the
sea and it took the rays of the rising sun a long time to pierce through this, albeit there
was light enough for us to survey the scene around.

The ocean now, instead of rising and falling with the sullen swell that had given motion to
it the day before, was covered with short broken waves that rolled up from the westwards with
the wind, dashing against the partly-submerged vessel and throwing clouds of spray over those
portions of the hull above the surface of the water, a large share of which we also came in for.

This motion of the sea, we could perceive, had considerably altered the position of the masts
that had been cut away, for they were rolling over and grinding down the starboard bulwarks,
the inboard ends working themselves gradually fore and aft the ship, the lee side of which
had risen quite a couple of feet higher out of the water during the night.

"Another good wave or two will send all that hamper adrift," said Captain Miles, looking round
and calculating our chances.

"Yes," replied Mr Marline, "they are coming from the right direction too, for if they broke
over us abeam, then the foremast could not free itself.  Now it possibly may, from the leverage
it has against the fo'c's'le."

"You're right," said the captain; "and here comes a good-sized roller that may finish the job.
Look out, lads, and hold on!"

Onward, as we gazed astern, came a large green sea, with a white angry crest, swelling larger
and larger as it got nearer, until it almost hung above the poop before breaking.

"Hold on, lads, hold on!" cried the captain, repeating his previous warning, when, with a dull
thud the mass of water broke, covering us all with a sheet of foam that drenched us through
and through, almost swept us away from our lashings--the spars that supported us being lifted
up from the deck and then dropped again as suddenly.

At the same time, there was a heavy crash heard forward, and the ship lurched as if she were
going to founder.  She quivered all over, and her timbers creaked and groaned.

Next, she rolled heavily more over to starboard, as the wave which had broken over us sped
onwards, washing the waist and forecastle; and then, with another great crash the mizzen and
mainmasts rolled into the sea, and the port side of the ship that was under water rose up clear.

The foremast, which had broken away when we heard that great crash forwards had been snapped
off just below the slings of the fore-yard, and had followed its companions overboard, although
still towed alongside by the stays and starboard rigging that also held the other spars; and,
the next instant, with an upward bound the Josephine righted. The vine, the vine and honeysuckle bush, barely covered between three
full extent of the wall, bristling with broken glass on top, which served as impregnable bulwark
against foxes and little boys.

This reduced the landscape, in addition to the vast and ever-beautiful
sky, so splendid day as imposing and mysterious night.

The pen (why should not we give it life?) Lay, as we, along with several objects rather ignoble,
own the place, and constantly exposed to be trodden by the barbarian
plant geese, chickens and even other little animals but clean and
decent had room in a nearby swamp.

I must not say that the pen must be very boring, as if a soul have delicate, air and supple body,
the consequence is that the soul could not live happy described in the corral. By a mysterious harmony
between the elements of that be if the body looked like a ghost of matter, the soul had been
created to fly and soar heights, rising to the longest distance possible on the ground, in which
ever mud should touch the lace of her subtle almost imperceptible cover. For this was born certainly,
but it, like us men remained predestination an empty word. Was the poor in the corral, lamenting
his fate, staring at the sky, without distraction in the wind see the whites of her clothes
festoons undefiled, and saying in the unknown language of feathers: "I do not know how annoying stand
this life. It's better to die a hundred times.

"

Other equally sad lot said, but at the same moment a gust of wind who put in turmoil all straw and
small objects thrown in the pen, the suspended, Unexpected oh joy! raising it on the ground more
than half a yard. For short time was fluctuating back and forth, threatening to fall at times
and going back others with large din of the chickens, who saw this white thing was walking
through the air such majesty, went behind her waiting for her in the fall, hoping it was something
eating. But the wind blew more loudly, and with a strong swirling around the campus the pen,
drew it out quickly. When she saw higher than the wall, higher than the house, the chestnut,
the height of poplar, trembled all over with excitement and admiration. Arribita there, the wind
swayed, holding no violent shaking, seemed to sway in visible hammock or in the arms of a loving
genius. From there, what a sight! Down the pen with chickens scratching constantly restless,
the garden, the house, the chestnut trees poplar, how small what once seemed so big! Then, the
whole expanse of beautiful Valley village of houses, trees, flowers, cattle, in the distance
the mountains with their slopes covered with forests, red and blue eminences and peaks encaperuzadas
with a whiteness in which our traveler thought he saw huge piles of feathers above the endless
sky, the morning sun making bright colors throughout the landscape, water scribbling ray of light
producing reflections quivering in the foliage of the elms, and reverberating in the crops straw
scattered here and there patches of poppies. This itself is called live! Tremendous thing would
be to fall back into the corral.

The pen, at the height of his joy, found no better way to express it spinning on its axis, so
that although its members orearan wet and shivering, bathed in the sun fluffy, cupping with
some tiny fringe vanity that your body is composed. The sun shone in between the interstices
of one thousand wonderful fit, and our traveler was seen threads of glass dressed more tenuous
than that spiders tend branch to branch, and covered with diamonds, emeralds and rubies ranging
from light to every move, and so tiny, the grains of sand mountains
appear at his side.

Extending the view of the valley, the mountains, the horizon, and wanting to cross it all to the end,
was in the pen work of a moment. His amazement and joy knew no bounds, and if at first surprise
kept at that height, rambling, without detracting from their status First, after a bit and feeling
Serenada on his chest (?) the fire of enthusiasm, was launched in the immense space, genie arms.
Gone pen, house, village, the tower of the church, as a giant panicked, was walking too large
to miss Zanchetta of view. In the excitement of that giddy flight, the pen sometimes rose so high,
I could barely distinguish objects, others down to almost to the ground, and looked their fleeting
image in the green surface of the puddles. Sometimes going back then, that seemed confused with the
clouds and disappear into the vast ocean of space down sometimes Therefore, it very nearly touched
the ground, and in language unknown to the wind said: "Put me down a little friend, I get dizzy
at these heights, "or" please pick me up, buddy, I'm going to fall
in that quagmire.

"

The wind, compliant vehicle, up and down as desired, always walk, and spent valleys, rivers,
mountains, hills, towns, without stopping. On their journey, the pen never stopped admire what
he saw. The birds spent singing along to it, the butterflies stopped, watching her in amazement, we
fail to understand if it was a living thing or object carried by the wind. When they were near
land and went skimming over brambles and thorny plants, you'd think all bristling barbs and claws
to get it, and fly over a pond, geese returning from the bank's head sideways at her, and hopefully
to see her fall, ran screeching after it: - "Lift me up, buddy,"
he cried, refusing to hear these barbarians.

"

CANTO FIRST

And rose to the top of the mountain, passing the ridge, and traveled another valley, and so all
the way, never stopping. Both walked the pen, feeling satisfied their curiosity, swirled, gave
a few turns on itself, and told the genius that drove:

"You know we've run enough? Do not be chosen in place to take a break? Ay, friend! Although he wanted
to leave the pen to travel the world, you believe that what I like is the quiet and peaceable
life.

For a moment I thought that happiness is to fly from here to there, seeing different things
every minute, and receive different impressions. And I'm convinced it is better to remain quietly
in one place a not be as ugly as poultry, live without fear or danger. I see there, near the
river, large trees, which I think the most beautiful place we found on our trip. "

Drew near and saw indeed that the shade of those trees was the site most appealing and delicious
than a pen could aspire to spend their days. Fine lawn covered the ground near the river ran
with gentle flow, not so quick to drag and Turning the soil of the green margins, nor so slow that
muddied the waters: easy was to count all the stones from the bottom, but not the multitude of fish
that wander over its transparent glass. The branches of trees, living sifting the sunshine,
kept in warm darkness the small meadow, and from there all the insects had fled importunate and dirty,
and all birds irrelevant and frivolous.

The few things that were there pitch or with a permanent residence, were the most learned and
distinguished of creation: insects dresses gold and decorated with
wonderful jewels, birds sang sentimental and discrete their love in
courtly style, and only at certain hours of the morning or afternoon.

It was noon, and all were silent at the top of the branches, entertaining spirit in abstract meditations.

'Fresh
and beautiful place this is! - Said the ruffled feathers of enthusiasm to be there .-- Here I spend
my whole life, all, all, I repeat not safely complete range of purpose.

Wandered beneath the shade of the trees, sliding on the cool grass, when he saw approaching a shepherd,
guiding two dozen sheep with the odd lamb, and a dog that served custody and companionship.
The pastor was concerned, walking, weaving a crown of flowers that brought on the side, and such
was her beauty, grace and elegance, the pen was absorbed.

He sat the girl, and the pen again soaring through the air, spun around his admiring up close and from
afar, and the whiteness of complexion, and expression and brightness eyes and black hair, and
his lips turned on, each and every one of the perfections copy of such creature.

"Here I have to be a lifetime - the traveler exclaimed in his convoluted language .-- This really
is live. I never tire of looking at it, but live a thousand years. What I have done well to settle
here ... and what a great thing to love!

Thank God I've found happiness. How sweet he spends his time looking at her, now and then and
always! What pleasure equal to that of skim her hair and stroking her forehead with my flequitos?
What I can be more ambitious than let me slip from his neck to sneak ... I do not know where, or
hide in your clothes and meat tickling estarme there for all eternity? This drives me crazy ...
and indeed I am madly in love.

Here and not away from it for a moment, I spend all life. "

The pen was flying and falling away around the pastor, until he came
to rest gently on his shoulder, and he made a thousand grimaces and
fuss with their fringes.

He saw the girl that object White, who at first tried to be anything but delicate falling branches
of the tree, and took her, squeezed between his fingers and threw it from him with contemptuous
indifference. A while later called to his flock and left.

Much took our unfortunate traveler return from his swoon. He opened his eyes in vain sought
the object of his tender passion, recognizing the site, shaking his bruised sockets and broken,
and gave the wind its complaints in this way:

"Oh, little wind, get me out of here, for the blessed souls, lift me up, I am dying of sadness.
I want to run again, as I now understand that happiness does not exist in what I thought.
Good silly I was! Love is not only fatigue and pain. Just love that I know tired and what it
brings. We'll fly again, and go where you want, buddy. I really I say that I carry these trees
and the river: I'm already up to the crown of lawns, meadows, streams
and birds.

Let us make a turn into the world.

Lift me: I go up clouds. That is, the way I like: Lift me up all
you can.

Look, there in the distance is reached to see a house that has to
be very large: Do you see how bright the sunlight, as if it were silver,
and next is again and again, many, many houses?

No doubt that is what called a city. That's what I want to see. Thank God I find what I like.
Let's go right there, and let us hills and valleys, places unfit for this my genius ... Now, now you
look closely the city. In this magnificent palace that we first saw we have to put. Run, run
more, which I do not think we ever.

NOTE:

[1] Sorry oh reader! was about to commit the irreverence to call this poem.

SECOND CANTO

Soon found themselves near a palace of marble, so great and beautiful that even the same mysterious
genius, that led to our friend, he was preoccupied with such magnificence. Revelry could be heard
there as dance or feast, and amazing music. Flags floated on the minarets and rooftops, and
windows reason people looked happy and busy.

"Inside, my friend - said the pen, - Colemon this balcony is wide open."

They did so, found inside a large room in which there were even a hundred people vast sitting around
table, full of rich delicacies and adorned with flowers, all set sovereign art and magnificence.
Was equal to the number of men to women, and if between had those
of different ages, they were all young and beautiful.

The servants wore very rich costumes, and endless harmonious musicians played sonatas on top of
a large rostrum.

The guests were lying on cushions covered in colorful tapestries adorned them with flowers and
dressed so lightly and gracefully, her beauty could not fail to appear embossed with ornaments so indiscreet.
The laughter, voices and music, impressing the hearing, the aroma of flowers and the smell snack
foods and spirits, injuring the nose; the liveliness of the eyes, the variety of colors, affecting
vision, produced in that place a fascination that would put the kibosh on the strength of all the
hermits of the Thebaid.

The pen, wandering through the ceiling of the room felt that since the table came up to caress
her senses the sweet fumes of the table and got drunk with the fragrance of wine poured in incessantly
in golden goblets.

His enthusiasm and joy knew no bounds, and let his tongue in such a way that did not stop talking
all day, telling his companion and driver:

"This really is delicious, my friend, this is really live. Well I tell you that here we to find
happiness, well I would announce my heart! Are driving me Tarumba the emanations from those birds,
those spices, the fruits of those spirits that appear to, lead itself the seeds of life and infuse
us encouragement and joy. Repairs in inflammatory beauty do these women: what looks! What breasts!
How great of their own bodies! How lovely smile on his lips! But do not you go crazy like me? Here
I estarme entire life, you know? There is no doubt that life is pleasure, and great fools are
those who walk around flowing dull over hill and dale. And I was so stupid I saw the happiness
in love tasteless pastor that inspired me! How easily we were wrong! ... but I have known my
error, and I have the assurance of not more wrong. It's because I have much experience, do not
believe, and from now on I know I have to do. Thank God I found the ultimate: here, here until
I die. What a pleasure, and what wine, and why so dizzy delicious! Sublime is this, and how unhappy
those who do not know! "

The meal progressed, and the madness of the guests played to its limit: the amphorae had been
and his latest offering of wine, the guests had made them refilled, and even women, stunned,
or shouted savagely with a lazy contemplation or silent.

The pen was also felt woozy: it began to go round and round in the air until little by little lost
consciousness of what had happened.

Preserving a remnant of vague knowledge, felt that the voices away, falling furniture, which
broke with a clatter of glasses; Silence the musicians, which obscured the sun, replaced a
dim light of torches; after they became extinct, that everything was silent. Then he felt
down, abandoned genius of his mysterious friend saw the flowers wilted
and trampled on the ground, the remains Food thrown into disorder
and exhaling foul odor; all mixed and dispersed, and no living person
in the room.

In his swoon judged slowly passing hours and hours, which after dawn, and someone finally showed
signs of life at the palace yesterday's delight and sadness today. The footsteps approached
and tried to unknown hands in order the remains of the feast. Then he was violently dragged to
the influence of a rough order: opened his eyes, and with a clear head, and saw that it was impelled
by a broom. The sweeping together with a multitude of objects mean, rumpled, foul and pestiferous:
leaves trampled flowers, pieces of glass still wet with wine, fruit kernels still covered
saliva, crusts of bread, salmon bones with any shred of flesh, a
speckled band salsa, strawberries Crushers, including wearing a pin
dyed reddish juice that looked like a murderer's knife, ham scraps,
banana skins and some eyes puff Fish that have fixed their broken
heads, seemed to contemplate with wonder and terror such show.

Among these objects, shooting everyone in droves, our pen was pushed
by the broom to to stop a large basket, from where he threw a pen
a thousand times more foul than that of he had left.

To see one so much garbage, bruised, torn, dirty, smelling of wine, spices, grease, saliva,
began to complain with these pathetic words:

"Oh, little wind of my soul, lift me and take me out of here, God and all the saints! I'm dying
in this pile of filth, I I want to be free and pure as before. A faith that you have worn,
feather. What a mistake so gross! Has largely come to the conclusion that bright day pleasure
and happiness. I do not say to me that pleasure brings nothing but degradation, lowliness, pain
and misery. For a little bit of joy, how bitter! And thank God that I come out alive. Luckily
not for me to fall back. Get me out of here, man, and God give you all the kingdoms of the
earth and sea, take me or I die in this rot. "

The genie quickly rose to the very great height, and there is recessed
above all, full glad, to purify and aerate your body.

Looked away from the palace and the city and then both went on without knowing where they went.

"Not quiet annoying fields, nor the palaces, which are mansion of boredom, I make my fucking grace
- the pen said .-- For we must find strength as soon block my genius. See? Or I am much mistaken,
or that crowd that occupies the plain before us, We will stop there with the sublime spectacle
of an act. Let soon, because I hear curiosity. Or I do not know what they are hosts, or whatever
currency there are two that will meet and fight. Sublime event! Blessed be God who has given
us occasion to witness a battle!

Here's one thing that excites me. I fell I for battle. Glory!

I tell you I lose my head when I talk about this. Afternoon was, my friend, but I've finally
found the standard of my destiny. Look, I will start. Above Coloquémonos those who seem to
be the leaders of one of the two armies, and see which will assemble here.

CANTO THREE

Indeed, two large and powerful armies were to hit that plateau. Why describe the brightness of weapons,
shields companies, the ardor of the combatants, the neighing of horses and other accidents uppers
fray? The pen, throbbing with emotion, saw the first meetings, and kept her eyes seemed to be
the king of the army who later decided the victory. The so-king wore a golden helmet, armor burnished
steel, and pressed the back of superb gray horse.

None equaled him in anger and boldness, why its people, enthusiastic about such an example, which overwhelmed
the contrary if were flocks of sheep.

Our traveling did not know how to express their frantic joy to the sublime tragedy.

"The glory! What a thing is glory! - Exclaimed, following as close as possible to the king .-- I
am victorious in my heart: this is life, this is what block to my
genius, this is Happiness: Thank God I found what I wanted.

And I was so stupid that I missed time on frivolous pleasures love and light! The truth is that
a silly mistake! But I have experience, and I do not equivocate more. Glory is what most exalted the
soul. Look, my little friend, how to overcome the locals. And others are retreating. Grande
and mighty king! Give half of my life get on top of his helmet, of that golden helmet at whose summit
will be inclined to Terror to all kings and nations of the earth. Come this alienates me. Do
not you hear how creak weapons, how the horses neigh and how blaspheme fighters, fired in
martial courage? Glorious death of some, and glorious victory of the others! "

This was decisive for the king of the golden helmet and the gray horse. His victorious army pursued
on his heels to the enemy, and followed the triumphant march pen hovering over his head the
hero. Fatigue-ran until night came. Then he stopped, satisfied have wiped out in their flight the
opposing army. Vencederos camped, all hell broke King's tent, food and bedding preparósele,
and at that time for reflection and rest, after the first excitement, until the pen fell to
the ground covered with corpses, blood, ruins.

Then the traveler felt icy cold, extraordinary fatigue and drowsiness
that overcame evoking memories of the epic battle. In his slumber,
he thought he felt the cries of the wounded, mixed with horrible imprecations.
They soon come mothers, sisters, tender children, holding each other,
because the pain loosened their faint bodies, illuminating With sad
flashlight to find the father, son, husband, brother. Men's horrible
average between the executioner and undertaker, and loose dug deep
pit, where they were thrown the unhappy dead of both armies. The holy
women found even among those offal, poorly covered by the earth, loved
ones, and even had dug for them out again if the voices and cries
that were heard no more than give them hope elsewhere that would perhaps
seeking. Lugubrious cawing, lowered vultures and other birds which
have their feast in the fields of battle, the rain waterlogged the
ground, kneading beds of mud and blood for the poor dead, and cold
finished off the wounded hoping to escape death. Tremendous night!
Returning from his lethargy, was observed the pen that he had seen
was no hallucination, but actually very clear. Tried to flee, but
stood in awe, because at the nearby King's tent shouting and swearing
sounded strong clash of arms.  The breeze we had wished for had come at last and waxed into a strong
wind, which had ultimately developed into the hurricane that had done all the mischief-- the
final result of which was the present burial of our drowned comrade!

"Lads," cried Captain Miles when he had finished reading the service and the body had disappeared
below the surface of the restless sea, "you can go and turn in now, all that like.  Mind, you
have a good caulk until early to-morrow morning, when you'll have to rouse out sharp, all hands,
for there be lots to be done!"

We who were on the poop also went below soon afterwards to the cabin, where we found that Jake
had cleared out all the debris and arranged the place so neatly that one would scarcely have
imagined it had ever been in the state of confusion we noticed when first entering it. 

Echeloría's father, who had nothing to dull, then noticed the girl's love and tried to kill
him, because the cousin had no other assets to his passionate heart; but Echeloría was really
in love, and the father, who at heart was a blessed, agreed and resigned after Mutileder aspired
to be his son.

Both lovers swear eternal fidelity. "Rather die than be different," she said. "Before die to
be of another, "he said.

And this promise was made repeatedly and solemnized and corroborated with the most terrible oaths.

After
this, what remedy was married but as soon as the first boyfriend? This was resolved the father,
and began to make preparations for the wedding, which was verified
in autumn.

It was already late spring, and in those ancient ages likewise happening now which in the spring following
the summer.

Aratispi was the most beautiful place this is Alora. Around there, as there are still fertile, gardens
and lush evergreen forests of orange and lemon, but the hills that
limited amenísimo the valley, rather than being peeled, as now, were
covered with oaks, cork, carob, chestnut and other trees, whose trunks
and whose shade grew heather, ferns, thyme, marjoram, Mastranzo and
other fragrant plants and herbs.

Such was then the generosity of that land, which dwarf palms, now usually covered and more than
just serve to make brooms and esportilla, rose to great heights,
while the steep ridges of the mountains, bald now, were covered with
tiara green firs, pines and cypresses.

Nevertheless, it must be confessed that in summer it got so hot in all Aratispi demons.

Echeloría wanted, rightly, take some sea bathing, and her father was
a busy port nice, near Malaga, D. Juan Fresco and I estimate that
it must have been Churriana.

Naturally Churriana Mutileder was also accompanying her future.

The cousins ​​were like two lovebirds, always cooing. The more I looked him Echeloría, most
beautiful and angelic and more mellifluous was was put to her. And the more I looked Mutileder Echeloría
to a greater number of perfection and excellence was in it.

Well, to say nothing, because it would be never ending story, the
mutual admiration that arose both souls when considering the talent
or the ability of the object of his love.

Each stone Mutileder pulling killed a bird and broke the heart of Echeloría, by dint of enthusiasm.
And Echeloría, meanwhile, more than charm Mutileder knew the songs sing, had made a serious pita,
so full of subtle and exquisite work, he was spellbound for hours contemplating the deep.

The two lovers enjoyed complete freedom and went alone to walk through those byways and byways,
and along the resounding sea, and by oaks and olive groves wearing those hillsides, and by
the Verjel, groves and groves of the valley, watered by a Crystal
Creek.

But both were so as God commands, that despite how much they wanted, not molested never anything
but a warmly shaking hands and once or twice at most, to consent
to her receiving a chaste kiss on the smooth and candid front, and
achieve the pattern.

The highest virtue and delicacy of these cousins ​​put everything
on hold for the day fortunate in that religion and the laws contained
in their indissoluble unity.

Meanwhile they said two hundred thousand
tenderness every time. "Your name is a label I put on my heart, "exclaimed
Echeloría.  Cuffee,
too, was blowing away at the galley fire till his black face looked like that of a red Indian;
and, as for Mr Marline, he was in his element, as he always was when overseeing anything connected
with the rigging of the ship, enjoying himself to his heart's content in setting up a jury-mast
to take the place of our broken foremast. Laudate Dominum omnes gentes ... Magnificentia opus ejus, manet in
aeternum.

Upon arrival we discovered the shrine and prayed aloud Don Sabas, and will answer us aloud us what we
share. The prayer was brief and the Latin half of it. Then Chisco approached the trellis, and two of
its bars put the lantern, which no longer needed, and left on the floor leaning against the
boundary wall too, to get you at the back, but not without crossing himself before placing the hand
and then removing it, or without considering the image with a reverence
that was something suspicious, as if asked, while safe for the garment
leaving deposited there, sorry for what might be of irreverent in
its audacity.

After the Vader, not take us, as I hoped, the path that leads directly to the port, but another
one like that right, and mountains and hills will, gorges and ravines are-here along the river basin,
there out of sight, and always getting on or off cliff to crag, from town to town, I saw how far the
main valley that lay Promise the site of my grandmother, and arrived,
after two hours of walking, a wide gorge between two mountains that
seemed, by his greatness, did not fit into the world.

As the most accessible to me 'then', as the opinion of Don Sabas, started skirted the left, and
that rises up, gave the order in which already scarce entrellano vegetation and insupportable
I was doing the morning breeze and freshness. There alighted Don Sabas, and ordered me to do
I do the same.

Hícelo and willingly, because I felt numb on the hard seat of my horse, besides the fact that
I conceived it safer to walk riding on that ledge, the rapid decline
of the mountain.

- What is missing, you have to upload it on foot
- the priest told me - because it is not riding trail, but men and,
at most, of goats.

With that encouragement and up!

And without waiting for my answer, began to climb with hands and feet from rocks and stumps.
How Chisco who envied me to the explanadita stayed below with the
horses!

Don Sabas had the practice of those routes, and also the passion of the heights, but I, lacked
both, what I ventured on the rise of so frightful precipices?

At last we reached the top, I by miracle of God himself, crawling crawling to those of Don Sabas,
but dead tired and sweaty.

- Rest a moment - the priest told me there - but with eyes closed, and watch open until I send!

Necessity
rather than out of obedience, I turned to exactly the mandate of
Don Sabas.

I a long time lying on the floor, face up and with both hands over his eyes, because only so
was the rest that I was absolutely indispensable then. Pounding felt in the heart that impact
on the temples, and the live sound of this pounding worked my lungs.

When the one and the others returned to their normal pace and quiet, I called and got Don Sabas
at your service. I was very close to me, perched on a rock in the usual attitude and starting
to get drunk with the eyes, and certainly not without reason.

- Arrímate a bit here - I said from his pedestal limestone with patches of moss and little else
taller than me -. Arrímate, provides ... And Marvel, Marcelo!

We had gone to the west of the mountain, which is the side where there are older than her, and the
picture that I gave the priest was seen by the other sides, ie it was something new for me and
recently appeared before my eyes. Particularly towards the east and the North, seemed to have
no limits in my view, some seasoned to estimate the magnitude shows from that, and it was so
amazing originality and strange, that did not succeed to realize full or nature or his "argument".
South is dominated by the beautiful valley of Campóo, and on another occasion seen and admired
by me in the same direction and further, brown tones of the Spanish
land, near the Port of yore with its stark monoliths and wrenching
loneliness. West and amaze all with their masses, and the Picos Peña
Sagra Europe separated by the Deva, whose profound and wonderful throat
was easily distinguished in many of its whimsical escapades among
inaccessible rocks and a fantastic and other shore, and beyond the
Deva, in the valleys low, as was said Don Sabas, with the brevity
and the way that signals the teacher with a cane in a sign the syllables
to their students, much of the province of Asturias.  It is far more important for our stowage to be true before we take any more
of the heavy spars on board; for, if we meet with any bad weather, we may turn the turtle again
and not come out of it so cleverly as we managed on the first occasion!"

"All right, sir," replied the mate, ordering the hands under his orders on the forecastle to
move aft, where, under the captain's directions, the hatches were taken off and the cargo exposed
to view.

A pair of shears were then rigged up over the hold, on which a running tackle with blocks and
falls was rigged; when, after several puncheons of rum had been hoisted out, it was found that
the lover tier of the cargo had lurched over at the time the ship careened.

It took many hours to alter the arrangement of the sugar casks below, the rum having to be
all hoisted on deck first; but, the hands working zealously, the job was at last accomplished,
the ship soon afterwards righting properly, with her deck now horizontal to the plane of the
water instead of being at an angle with it as before. Although considered more intelligent than his brother, and serve long years
of public administration in various provinces of Spain, and had read the César Cantú Universal
History of Spain and Lafuente, without missing a volume, and possessed the same fortune, retirement
more than 2,500 pesetas a year, it is certain that D. John, without Peñascosa never left or
have read in the newspaper life to which he subscribed, enjoyed far greater prestige in the village.
This, by way of D. Peregrin, but not appropriate for height. Indeed, D. Juan Casanova was tall,
dry, aquiline face, large eyes drooping eyelids and look imposing, venerable bald, short white
whiskers and a measured and stately march. These extraordinary gifts, together talk to a measured
and prudent, had captured the respect and even the veneration of neighbors. So great was the
astonishment of their time to the arrival of D. Peregrin de Andalucía, where he had been employed
recently heard him call ignorant and fool his brother in a discussion with him at the casino was about
the tobacco revenue. They lived together, both single and delivered to the care of Ms Mariquita
despotic, housekeeper and sole owner of their lives and property.

D. Juan, by dint of walking her stern look and majestic on the sea
of ​​heads that stretched from the fence to the gate of the temple,
met with the shiny bald head of the pygmy brother.

Seeing the anguish painted on his face, he hastened to signal nobly to advance, giving the bank
site occupied. But D. Peregrin, perchance noting the impossibility of taking a step, or flushed
with anger, which had been increasing little by little, he replied with a grimace of anger
and contempt that overtook his unfortunate brother completely took away the desire to insist.

-
What is that? - Asked D. Martín de las Casas, who was sitting next to him .-- Do not you want D.
come Peregrin?

- Is that it is impossible. Who breaks the wall of flesh?

- For anyone.

You see how I go there and bring it at once - said D. Martin, Male vigorous and expeditious nature,
ready to rise.

D. John is retained by the sleeve of his coat.

- No, let you ... Did not want to come ... You know his character.

-
For man is not like dish could you be there sweating latte! - Answered
sharply, while raising the shoulders.

The church is among the most spacious villa can be rendered. Truth
Peñascosa with have seven to eight thousand souls, no church has more
than this. Perhaps to be too spacious, the sexton and his assistants
do not want to take care of cleaning often.  All the ropes and blocks having been carefully collected
beforehand and sorted, this labour did not consume half the time that one would have thought.

On the fifth day, the mizzen-mast was also got back into its place. 

Mutileder, lost his father and mother, had no urban land and rustic, lived as love staying with his
uncles, and Vescio did not know what used to make a living. Was a man, as they say, without
a job or benefit.

However, the change made a wonderful improvement in the appearance of the ship; and when the
broken bulwarks were patched up, which was done on the last day of the week, she was herself again. 

Finally, they went slowly calming the spirits who were angry. Doña Martina left to pursue her
daughter and sat at the table, though muttering threats, it also sat looking askance at his
mother, D. Bernardo, making a prodigious effort of diplomacy to overcome its just despondency,
fell into conversation with the colonel. The only broken glass was paid miserly Henry: the authority
of the father and mother, in common agreement, decided to stay without food, for insolence!
But, as long as in Spain punishes a criminal, no lack of commitment to continue to have the
case married, the pleas of Ojeda and Colonel managed to end that sentence was reduced only
deprivation dessert. And the good Henry (who must at least acknowledge that in the midst of
raging anger sacase not the shovel murderer who was in the lining of the jacket) came to sit
at the table with the red cheeks of the cheeks, eyes and noses wet hair fallen over his forehead.
I was so horrible, that his cousin Miguel, pity heartily, he felt a desire heinous laugh which,
of course, tried to contain by whatever means were within reach, biting his lips, looking at another
site, etc., etc. But he wanted her bad luck that Henry came to understand, by the contraction of
the face certainly, the desire that frolicked in the body, and for that purpose began to throw
a glaring, poisoned.
 I intend to make for Flores, the westernmost island
of the Azores, as we're short of water; besides, by my pursuing that course we shall get up
into the trades, and bye and bye fetch the Gulf Stream, which will render our passage shorter
to the Channel." Who robs
him of giving short walk in the morning at the retreat, his little sermon in the afternoon Calatravas
or the Incarnation, his bulls or steers on Sundays, etc.., Etc.?

- Let us know what falls within these etcetera, D. Facundo - said
the colonel.

"You just try me and see," replied the first mate drily to this remark, joining in the captain's
laugh; but I noticed that the other did not take up the offer. How would knowing
from day to day, his body destroyed, the claws of death!

At about eleven o'clock came in the house Don Pedro Nolasco and his entire family is say, her
daughter and granddaughter, and were received in my room, where he had brazier and we were my
uncle and I with Neluco who had gone to visit him daily. Lita had head wrapped in a fluffy light
blue scarf, which enhanced the freshness sonrosadita your pretty face by the harshness of mountain
air, and all huddled gentle body in a gray wool shawl, a long coat. According came and spoke
in his style and rejoiced picturesque, bareheaded was unwrapping the head and body with their
graceful nimble hands half covered with red yarn mittens. Looking at her and staring at the sun
that flooded the valley, after a few days so black and so stormy as recent past, I do not know
What I got to see the granddaughter of Don Pedro Nolasco, something like the dove that returned
to the ark announcing that it had ceased and the wrath of God and all of nature arose from the
abyss of darkness cleansed of sins and iniquities of men. Don Pedro Nolasco was the walls shake
with the noise of their weightings of the loud and crude as temporary. Could not remember another
like him many years ago. He had been like no blood in those days and there was no fire for them
to reach to put him in heat. Well you knew without he pondered, the chamuscones that had been
given away because they smelled smoke from kitchen, and her skin was as cured sausages and
even soot. Mari Pepa saw no reason for many weights: one time had been like many others who had
passed and that would pass. The only thing he truly mortified that was private, and deprive
all in his house, going to do a bit of Don Celso company and see how he was health.


CHAPTER NINETEEN.

DAD.

My tale will soon come to an end.

After leaving Santa Cruz, we had a fine steady wind from the north-west, right on our quarter,
all the way to the chops of the Channel; and this enabled us to accomplish the intervening
twelve hundred miles of distance in ten days' time.

We were equally lucky in getting up to the river, although it was well on in the month of October,
when easterly winds generally prevail; for, without requiring the assistance of a tug, after
making the Lizard, we passed up towards London in fine style, walking at a great rate by Dunnose,
Beachy Head, Dungeness, and all those other landmarks that mariners know so well. 

Madrid, April 1868.

LITERARY COURT

I

"I would entirely sentimental, that touched my
soul, to do mourn .... I, when I read and do not cry, I believe I
have not read.

What do you want? I'm like - I said the duke Cantarranas, making face, mouth and nose one of
those nervous gestures that distinguished from the other dukes and all mortals.

I assure you it will be sentimental, be given such that seizures and
syncope, will mourn to all mankind, dear Sir Duke - I said opening
the manuscript the first page.

- That's what we need, my friend,
feeling, feeling.

In this century materialist art should wake the noble affections. It is necessary to mourn the
crowds, whose heart is hardened by political passion, whose mind is lost for ideas vanity that
have imbued the Socialists.

If you do not put you there for a long cry, long sigh, much love thwarted, much tenderness,
great languor, many turtle and lots of quail, we successfully predict a sad, and what is worse,
the dramatic failure of failure and anathema angry posterity.

Said, and affecting the severity of a Patron, the Duke of Cantarranas eyed me with an expression
of superiority, not without another nervous gesture that seemed to sink the nose, mouth break
and rip the skin of his forehead, his face shining Olympic peaceful
genius, sweet and sentimental melancholy poetry.

That disturbed me. Such authority was for me the famous hero! I closed and opened the manuscript
several times, spent heavily on finger inside the stitched, trying
to force the leaves to be open without having to hold his hand, looked
around the first lines, I read the title, I coughed, I moved the chair,
and, frankly declared, would desired at that moment a pretext, verbi
grace, a fire next door, subsidence or earthquake, I had stopped reading,
because, indeed, I was overwhelmed to the respectable audience that
would listen to.

It consisted of four famous figures of such weight and authority in the republic of letters,
who barely understand today how I was able to summon them for a reading of my business, naturally
poor and worthless. Aterrábame, Above all, the said Duke of nervous gestures, the most eminent
critic of my time in the opinion of friends and adversaries.
